{"id": "264875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264875", "title": "1979 oil crisis", "text": "1979 oil crisis\n\nThe 1979 (or second) oil crisis or oil shock occurred in the world due to decreased oil output in the wake of the Iranian Revolution. Despite the fact that global oil supply decreased by only ~4%, widespread panic resulted, driving the price far higher. The price of crude oil more than doubled to $39.50 per barrel over the next 12 months, and long lines once again appeared at gas stations, as they had in the 1973 oil crisis.\n\nIn 1980, following the outbreak of the Iran–Iraq War, oil production in Iran nearly stopped, and Iraq's oil production was severely cut as well. Economic recessions were triggered in the United States and other countries. Oil prices did not subside to pre-crisis levels until the mid-1980s.\n\nAfter 1980, oil prices began a 20-year decline, except for a brief rebound during the Gulf War, eventually reaching a 60 percent fall-off during the 1990s. As with the 1973 crisis, global politics and power balance were impacted. Oil exporters such as Mexico, Nigeria, and Venezuela expanded production; the Soviet Union became the top world producer; North Sea and Alaskan oil flooded the market. It seemed that the United States of America and Norway had much more oil reserves than forecasted in the 1970s. OPEC lost influence.\n\nAmid massive protests, the Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, fled his country in early 1979 and the Ayatollah Khomeini soon became the new leader of Iran. Protests severely disrupted the Iranian oil sector, with production being greatly curtailed and exports suspended. In November 1978, a strike by 37,000 workers at Iran's nationalized oil refineries initially reduced production from per day to about . Foreign workers (including skilled oil workers) fled the country. On January 16, 1979, the Shah and his wife left Iran at the behest of Prime Minister Shapour Bakhtiar (a longtime opposition leader himself), who sought to calm the situation.\n\nThe rise in oil price benefited other OPEC members, which made record profits. When oil exports were later resumed under the new Iranian government, they were inconsistent and at a lower volume, pushing prices up. Saudi Arabia and other OPEC nations, under the presidency of Mana Al Otaiba, increased production to offset most of the decline, and in early 1979 the overall loss in worldwide production was about 4 percent.\n\nOPEC failed to hold on to its preeminent position, especially after Iran and Iraq went to war in 1980 and caused a further 10% drop in worldwide production – and by 1981, OPEC production was surpassed by other exporters. Additionally, its own member nations were divided among themselves. Saudi Arabia, a \"swing producer\" trying to gain back market share after 1985, increased production and caused downward pressure on prices, making high-cost oil production facilities less profitable or even unprofitable.\n\nThe oil crisis had mixed effects in the United States, due to some parts of the country being oil-producing regions and other parts being oil-consuming regions.\nRichard Nixon had imposed price controls on domestic oil. Gasoline controls were repealed, but controls on domestic US oil remained.\n\nThe Jimmy Carter administration began a phased deregulation of oil prices on April 5, 1979, when the average price of crude oil was US$15.85 per barrel (). Starting with the Iranian revolution, the price of crude oil rose to $39.50 per barrel over the next 12 months (its all-time highest real price until March 3, 2008.) Deregulating domestic oil price controls allowed U.S. oil output to rise sharply from the large Prudhoe Bay fields, while oil imports fell sharply.\n\nAnd although not directly related, the near-disaster at Three Mile Island on March 28, 1979, also increased anxiety about energy policy and availability.\n\nDue to memories of oil shortage in 1973, motorists soon began panic buying, and long lines appeared at gas stations, as they had six years earlier during the 1973 oil crisis.\n\nAs the average vehicle of the time consumed between two and three liters (about 0.5–0.8 gallons) of gasoline (petrol) an hour while idling, it was estimated that Americans wasted up to of oil per day idling their engines in the lines at gas stations.\n\nDuring the period, many people believed the oil companies artificially created oil shortages to drive up prices, rather than factors beyond human control or the US's own price controls. The amount of oil sold in the United States in 1979 was only 3.5 percent less than the record set for oil sold the year previously. A telephone poll of 1,600 American adults conducted by the Associated Press and NBC News and released in early May 1979 found that only 37% of Americans thought the energy shortages were real, 9% were not sure, and 54% thought the energy shortages were a hoax.\n\nMany politicians proposed gas rationing; one such proponent was Harry Hughes, Governor of Maryland, who proposed odd-even rationing (only people with an odd-numbered license plate could purchase gas on an odd-numbered day), as was used during the 1973 Oil Crisis. Several states actually implemented odd-even gas rationing, including California, Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, Oregon, and Texas. Coupons for gasoline rationing were printed but were never actually used during the 1979 crisis.\n\nOn July 15, 1979, President Carter outlined his plans to reduce oil imports and improve energy efficiency in his \"Crisis of Confidence\" speech (sometimes known as the \"malaise\" speech). It is often said that during the speech, Carter wore a cardigan (he actually wore a blue suit) and encouraged citizens to do what they could to reduce their use of energy. He had already installed solar hot water panels on the roof of the White House and a wood-burning stove in the living quarters. However, the panels were removed in 1986, reportedly for roof maintenance, during the administration of his successor, Ronald Reagan.\n\nCarter's speech argued the oil crisis was \"the moral equivalent of war\". Critics, then and now, argued that his varied proposals would make the situation worse, not better. In November 1979, Iranian revolutionaries seized the American Embassy, and Carter imposed an embargo against Iranian oil. In January 1980, he issued the Carter Doctrine, declaring: \"An attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States.\" Additionally, as part of his administration's efforts at deregulation, Carter proposed removing price controls that had been imposed by the administration of Richard Nixon before the 1973 crisis. Carter agreed to remove price controls in phases; they were finally dismantled in 1981 under Reagan. Carter also said he would impose a windfall profit tax on oil companies. While the regulated price of domestic oil was kept to $6 a barrel, the world market price was $30.\n\nIn 1980, the U.S. Government established the Synthetic Fuels Corporation to produce an alternative to imported fossil fuels.\n\nWhen the price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil increased 250 percent between 1978 and 1980, the oil-producing areas of Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Colorado, Wyoming, and Alaska began experiencing an economic boom and population inflows.\n\nIn response to the high oil prices of the 1970s, industrial nations took steps to reduce their dependence on OPEC oil. Electric utilities worldwide switched from oil to coal, natural gas, or nuclear power; national governments initiated multibillion-dollar research programs to develop alternatives to oil; and commercial exploration developed major non-OPEC oilfields in Siberia, Alaska, North Sea, and Gulf of Mexico. By 1986, daily worldwide demand for oil dropped by 5 million barrels, non-OPEC production rose by an even-larger amount, and OPEC's market share sank from 50% in 1979 to just 29% in 1985.\n\nAt the time, Detroit's \"Big Three\" automakers (Ford, Chrysler, GM) were marketing downsized full-sized automobiles like the Chevrolet Caprice, the Ford LTD Crown Victoria and the Dodge St. Regis which met the CAFE fuel economy mandates passed in 1978. Detroit's response to the growing popularity of imported compacts like the Toyota Corolla and the Volkswagen Rabbit were the Chevrolet Citation, and the Ford Fairmont; Ford replaced the Ford Pinto with the Ford Escort and Chrysler, on the verge of bankruptcy, introduced the Dodge Aries K. GM was having unfavorable market reactions to the Citation, and introduced the Chevrolet Corsica and Chevrolet Beretta in 1987 which did sell better. GM also replaced the Chevrolet Monza, introducing the 1982 Chevrolet Cavalier which was better received. Ford experienced a similar market rejection of the Fairmont, and introduced the front wheel drive Ford Tempo in 1984. \n\nChecker Motors, known for its iconic Marathon sedans used for the taxicab livery, ceased its automotive production in 1982 transitioning to stamping sheetmetal for GM. American Motors, the final independent manufacturer outside of Detroit's Big Three, entered into a joint venture with Renault where its mass market automobiles were sold alongside the remaining AMC product lineup which have declined in sales while AMC's Jeep division was profiting, especially with the introduction of its downsized XJ sport utilities which led to the company's demise (its homegrown compacts dating back to 1970 – they were phased out in 1983 (with the exception of the Eagle 4WD wagon making it the final AMC designed product) and financial woes with the Renault partnership ended the reign of the final independent. Renault ended up owning 100% of AMC in 1982 (resulting in the divestment of AM General) until late 1986 where they sold AMC's shares to Chrysler Corporation. They later absorbed AMC in late 1987 where the Jeep division is now part of Chrysler (now FCA automobiles).\n\nDetroit was not well prepared for the sudden rise in fuel prices, and imported brands (primarily the Asian marques which were mass marketed and had a lower manufacturing cost as opposed to British and West German brands - the rising value of the Deutsche Mark and English Pound resulted in the transition to the rise of Japanese manufacturers where exporting their product from Japan at a lower cost would yield profitable gains despite accusations of price dumping) were now more widely available in North America and had developed a loyal customer base - the Japanese Big Three launched their respective advertisement campaigns (Honda with its 'We Make It Simple' tagline, Datsun (Nissan after 1984) with the tagline 'We Are Driven', and Toyota with 'Oh What A Feeling' (they ran a previous ad campaign prior to 1979 where the company mocked the Plymouth Volare with the tagline 'You Asked For It – You Got It') – luring away traditional Big Three consumers (Subaru in the late 1970s ran an ad campaign where former owners of a Big Three automobile drove their products – one TV ad started with the tagline 'Ford drives Subaru'). \n\nA year after the 1979 Iranian Revolution, Japanese manufacturers surpassed Detroit's production totals becoming first in the world. Japanese exports would later displace the automotive market once dominated by lowered tier European manufacturers (Alfa Romeo, Fiat, Opel, Peugeot, MG, Triumph, Citroen). Some would declare bankruptcy (e.g. Triumph, Simca) or withdraw from the U.S. market, especially in the wake of grey market automobiles or the inability of the vehicle to meet DOT requirements (from emission requirements to automotive lighting). Many imported brands utilized fuel saving technologies such as fuel injection and multi-valve engines over the common use of carburetors. Also, the imported brands used their innovative business ethic e.g. a just-in-time inventory system but the U.S. Government imposed import quotas where the Japanese brands (later extended to South Korean and European marques) began outsourcing their operations by opening assembly plants in the United States (especially the Southern U.S. where import automakers were not on friendly terms with labor unions from the Rust Belt states), Canada, and Mexico to produce their mass market automobiles and light trucks. The Japanese (and later South Korean) brands which assembled its automobiles on U.S. soil had exterior dimensions which were sized to its domestic counterparts and engine displacement over 2.0 liters for the USA market (Japanese regulations on vehicle sizing and engine displacement determines the road tax paid on an annual basis which is not practiced in the US and Canada). \n\nImport brands also complied with local content laws where an import automobile must have a percentage of automotive components (in the United States automobiles with 70 percent local content manufacture is considered a domestic build regardless of manufacturer) sourced from the United States, Canada, or Mexico (prior to the establishment of NAFTA) and the American Automobile Labeling Act of 1994 which mandated the percentage of automotive parts content printed on the Monroney sticker of an automobile sold through a dealership. The import quota resulted in the Japanese automakers importing a limited amount of automobiles but to comply with the U.S. Government imposition of the 1981 Voluntary Export Restraints, the automakers established their respective luxury marques (Acura, Lexus, Infiniti) but run respectively by their parent manufacturers (Honda, Toyota, Nissan). GM's Cadillac division experimented with their V8-6-4 power plant (the ancestor of the modern-day Active Fuel Management and/or variable displacement), which was a market failure. Nonetheless, overall fuel economy increased, which was one factor leading to the subsequent 1980s oil glut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18759722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18759722", "title": "1987–89 Tibetan unrest", "text": "1987–89 Tibetan unrest\n\nThe 1987–1989 Tibetan unrest were a series of pro-independence protests that took place between September 1987 and March 1989 in the Tibetan areas in the People's Republic of China: Sichuan, Tibet Autonomous Region and Qinghai, and the Tibetan prefectures in Yunnan and Gansu. The largest demonstrations began on March 5, 1989 in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa, when a group of monks, nuns, and laypeople took to the streets as the 30th anniversary of the 1959 Tibetan uprising approached. Police and security officers attempted to put down the protests, but as tensions escalated an even greater crowd of protesters amassed. After three days of violence, martial law was declared on March 8, 1989, and foreign journalists and tourists were expelled from Tibet on March 10. Reports of deaths and military force being used against protesters were prominent. Numbers of the dead are unknown.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2702391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2702391", "title": "Agnes Inglis", "text": "Agnes Inglis\n\nAgnes Inglis (1870–1952) was a Detroit, Michigan-born anarchist who became the primary architect of the Labadie Collection at the University of Michigan.\n\nAgnes Inglis was born on December 3, 1870, in Detroit, Michigan, to Agnes (née Lambie) and Richard Inglis. Both of her parents were from Scotland. Her father was a doctor. She was the youngest child in a conservative, religious family, and educated at a Massachusetts girls' academy. Her father died in 1874, her sister died of cancer some time later, and her mother died in 1899 before Inglis was thirty years old.\n\nAfter her mother's death, Inglis studied history and literature at the University of Michigan, receiving an allowance from her extended family. She left the university before graduating, and spent several years as a social worker at Chicago's Hull House, the Franklin Street Settlement House in Detroit, and the YWCA in Ann Arbor. While working in these settings, she became sympathetic to the condition of immigrant laborers in the United States, ultimately developing strong political convictions from the experiences.\n\nIn 1915 Inglis met and befriended Emma Goldman, and shortly thereafter, Goldman's lover and comrade Alexander Berkman. She increased her radical activities with the onset of World War I, and used much of her time and family's money for legal support, particularly during the Red Scare of 1919–1920.\n\nShe befriended Joseph Labadie and in 1924 discovered the materials on radical movements he donated to University of Michigan in 1911 had hardly been cared for. The collection remained unprocessed, kept in a locked cage. She began volunteering full-time, carefully organizing and cataloguing what would be known as the Labadie Collection. Her contributions to the collection were unique. She used unorthodox methods of arranging the collection. On the catalog cards, personal opinions were sometimes added to the bibliographic information about the items.\n\nAfter a few years, Inglis and Labadie sent letters to 400 radicals soliciting contributions on their personal experiences and organizing efforts. While the initial response was weak, over the next 28 years anarchists would donate an enormous volume of publications, writings, and documentary material to her collection. These include the papers of Roger Baldwin, Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, and Ralph Chaplin. She also helped many in their research and publications, such as Henry David with The Haymarket Tragedy and James J. Martin with Man Against the State. Inglis' work was known around the U.S., and after many anarchists died decades later, their families would donate their collections to the Labadie Collection. It is estimated that her efforts increased the size of the original collection by approximately twentyfold.\n\nInglis died on January 30, 1952, in Michigan, leaving an expansive and comprehensive library on radical social movements. With her death, however, some of the nuances of the collection's organization were lost.\n\n"}
{"id": "200581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200581", "title": "Atabeg", "text": "Atabeg\n\nAtabeg, Atabek, or Atabey is a hereditary title of nobility of a Turkic origin, indicating a governor of a nation or province who was subordinate to a monarch and charged with raising the crown prince. The first instance of the title's use was with early Seljuk Turks who bestowed it on the Persian vizier Nizam al-Mulk It was later used in the Kingdom of Georgia, first within the Armeno-Georgian family of Mkhargrdzeli as a military title and then within the house of Jaqeli as princes of Samtskhe.\n\nThe word \"atabeg\" is a compound of two Turkic words: \"ata\", \"ancestor\", or \"father\" and \"beg\" or \"bey\", \"lord, leader, prince\". \"Beg\" is stated in some sources as Iranian origin (as in the compound Baghdad from \"bag/beg\" and \"dad\", \"lord\" given). However, according to Gerhard Doerfer, the word \"beg\" may have possibly been of Turkic origin – the origin of the word still remains disputed to this day.\n\nThe title \"Atabeg\" was common during the Seljuk rule of the Near East starting in the 12th century. It was also common in Mesopotamia (Iraq). When a Seljuk prince died, leaving minor heirs, a guardian would be appointed to protect and guide the young princes. These guardians would often marry their wards' widowed mothers, thus assuming a sort of surrogate fatherhood. Amongst the Turkmen tribes, as in Persia, the rank was senior to a khan.\n\nThe title \"Atabeg\" was also in use for officers in Mamluk Egypt; some of them were proclaimed sultan before the incorporation into the Ottoman Empire. After the end of Seljuk rule, the title was used only intermittently.\n\nWhen describing the Atabegs of Azerbaijan, the Ildeniz (Ildegoz) dynasty, the title \"Atabeg-e-Azam\" (Great Atabeg) was used, to denote their superior standing, power and influence on the Seljuk sultans.\n\nIn Persian, the style \"Atabek-e-Azam\" was occasionally used as an alternative title for the Shah's Vazir-e-Azam (\"Grand Vizier\"), notably in 1834–35 for Mirza Abolghasem Farahani, Gha'em Magham, in 1848–51 for Mirza Mohammed Taghi Khan, Amir-e Kabir, in 1906-07 for Mirza Ali Asghar Khan, Amin-ol Soltan, and finally in 1916 for a Qajar prince, Major-General Shahzadeh Sultan 'Abdu'l Majid Mirza, Eyn-ol Douleh.\n\n\nBeginning in the twelfth century the atabegs formed a number of dynasties, and displaced the descendants of the Seljukid emirs in their various principalities. These dynasties were founded by emancipated Mamluks, who had held high office at court and in camp under powerful emirs. When the emirs died, they first became stadtholders for the emirs' descendants, and then usurped the throne of their masters. There was an atabeg dynasty in Damascus founded by Toghtekin (1103–1128).\n\nOther atabeg \"kingdoms\" sprang up to the north east, founded by Sokman (Sökmen), who established himself at Kaifa in Diyarbakır about 1101, and by his brother Ilghazi. The city of Mosul was under Mawdud ibn Altuntash, and was later ruled by atabegs such as Aksunkur and Zengi. Zengi became Atabeg of Mosul in 1128 and soon established himself as an independent ruler of much of northern Mesopotamia and Syria (including Aleppo).\n\nThe northern part of Luristan, formerly known as Lurikuchik ('Little Luristan'), was governed by independent princes of the Khurshidi dynasty, styled atabegs, from the beginning of the 17th century when the last atabeg, Shah Verdi Khan, was removed by Persian Shah Abbas I and the government of the province given to Husain Khan, the chief of a rival tribe. Husain, however, was given the gubernatorial title of vali instead of atabeg. The descendants of Husain Khan retained the title.\n\nGreat Luristan, in the southern part of Luristan, was an independent state under the Fazlevieh atabegs from 1160 until 1424 . Its capital was Idaj, now only represented by mounds and ruins at Malamir, 100 km south east of Shushtar.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Georgia, atabeg (, \"atabagi\") was one of the highest court titles created by Queen Tamar of Georgia in 1212 for her powerful subjects of the Mkhargrdzeli family. The atabeg of Georgia was a vizier and a Lord High Tutor to Heir Apparent. Not infrequently, the office of atabeg was combined with that of amirspasalar (commander-in-chief). In 1334, the title became hereditary in the Jaqeli family who ruled the Principality of Samtskhe. Therefore, this entity came to be denominated as Samtskhe-Saatabago, the latter element meaning \"of the atabags\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27212670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27212670", "title": "Bantu Investment Corporation Act, 1959", "text": "Bantu Investment Corporation Act, 1959\n\nThe Bantu Investment Corporation Act, Act No 34 of 1959, formed part of the apartheid system of racial segregation in South Africa. In combination with the Bantu Homelands Development Act of 1965, it allowed the South African government to capitalize on entrepreneurs operating in the Bantustans. It created a Development Corporation in each of the Bantustans.\n"}
{"id": "6501035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6501035", "title": "Boerestaat Party", "text": "Boerestaat Party\n\nThe Boerstaat Party () is a right wing South African political party founded on 30 September 1986 by Robert van Tonder. It was never officially registered as a political party because it was unable to rally 500 persons under one roof, a requirement under South African electoral law for official political party status. It was never represented in the South African Parliament, neither in the apartheid era nor after democratisation. In 1989, it joined the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging (AWB) in declaring support for Jaap Marais, the leader of the Herstigte Nasionale Party and has worked with the HNP on occasion since. The party was a charter member of the Afrikaner Volksfront coalition group. It has also operated with the paramilitary group, the \"Boere Weerstandsbeweging\" (Boer Resistance Movement) led by Andrew Ford.\n\nThe BSP were the third group in South Africa to openly advocate the restoration of the South African Republic and the Orange Free State and call for the secession of these territories from the Union of South Africa. Other groups advocated this notion in the past, with the Maritz Rebellion of 1914 and the Ossewa Brandwag of the 1940s being the most notable . This policy was later taken on board by the AWB and other rightist movements. The BSP further argued that the Boer citizens of these nineteenth century republics should be considered as a distinct nation from the Afrikaners, known as a Boerestaat.\n\nThe BSP has been noted for adopting controversial views on AIDS and came out in support of the views on the subject expressed by Thabo Mbeki. The party has also taken an active role in ensuring that the Voortrekker Monument is cared for, with current leader Coen Vermaak a leading advocate in this campaign.\n\nCoen Vermaak has become noted for his controversial statements, arguing that it is official policy to drive white people to extinction through the widespread availability of contraceptives whilst he has further argued that 'I am convinced the abortion law is aimed at getting rid of white babies'. Vermaak has also claimed that AIDS was a hoax designed to promote the use of condoms among whites, claiming that 'no Boer [Afrikaner] ever had Aids. It doesn't exist. It's the biggest scam that can take place'.\n\nWhilst the party does not actively call for voting rights to be restricted to whites only, it firmly rejects the post-apartheid doctrine of universal suffrage. For Vermaak, it is ridiculous that a doctor and a vagrant should have an equal say in how the country is governed. He has argued that 'any logical person should understand [that] some people's votes should count more than others'.\n\n"}
{"id": "23923798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23923798", "title": "Camp Hemshekh", "text": "Camp Hemshekh\n\nCamp \"Hemshekh\" (; \"continuation\" Literally: Camp \"Continuation\") was a Jewish summer camp in the United States that was founded in 1959 by Holocaust survivors who were active in the Jewish Labour Bund, a Jewish, socialist workers' party in Eastern Europe. The camp was sponsored by the Bund as well. Camp Hemshekh had as its goal instilling in its campers the ideals of the Jewish socialist movement that flourished in interwar Poland: socialism, secular Yiddish culture, equality and justice, and the Bundist concept of \"doikayt\", \"hereness,\" that Jews should live, build their culture and struggle for their rights wherever they dwell, rather than seeking refuge in a Jewish homeland. Although, most campers will say that they did not feel that they had been indoctrinated. Camp Hemshekh closed in 1978 because the number of campers diminished. A Hemshekh camper is called a \"Hemshekhist\" (the plural is \"Hemshekhistn\").\n\nCamp Hemshekh was located at five campsites: \nOne of the more memorable events each summer was \"Ghetto Night\". Ghetto Night took place on the third Sunday of August. Ghetto Night was a solemn, all-day commemoration of the Jewish partisans and victims of the Nazis that culminated in a gripping English and Yiddish retelling of the Holocaust through poetry and song. At the end of the performance, as the piano softly played the haunting melody of \"Ani Ma'amin\" (reportedly sung by Jews during the Holocaust as they entered the gas chambers), the camp walked out single file, and followed a torch-lit path to the \"Ghetto Denkmol\".\nOne of the Ghetto Night programs, titled \"Varshever Oyfshtand un Geto Akademie\" (\"Warsaw Uprising and Ghetto Program\"), was as close the camp came to a religious service in the adamantly secular Camp Hemshekh. It began with a bellowed command: \"Z’khor! Gedenk vos es hot geton mit dayn folk der daytshisher nazi amalek\" — \"Remember! Remember what the German Nazi Amalek did to your people.\" It closed with a pledge that they chanted in unison: \"To remember and remember and remember for all time.\" This was followed by a call and response: \"Let there be no forgetfulness! No forgetfulness! Let there be no dimming of memory! No dimming of memory! Let the memory be clear as glass, cold as ice and bright as a diamond.\"\nThis Ghetto Night Program included the heartrending, untitled poem that concluded: \"The hands of the killers/Broke the locked hold/Of our mother's mad embrace/It was all in vain/The frantic cries/The murderer-hands clawed our flesh/Hurled us against the wall/To instant death.\" It included the gruesome, like Yuri Suhl's \"The Permanent Delegate\": \"I am the spasm of a body convulsed in flames, the crumbling of a skeleton, the boiling of blood,\" and the macabre, such as Aaron Zeitlin's \"Kinder fun Majdanek\" (\"Children of Majdanek\"): \"Kopele, where is your head? Where is the light of your eyes?\"\nAt its heart, however, the program was a tribute to Jewish Resistance. Much of the text was taken from \"Never to Forget: the Battle of the Warsaw Ghetto\", written by Howard Fast and William Gropper, published in 1946 by the Jewish People's Fraternal Order, International Workers Order There were also up-tempo, bold songs like Shmerke Kaczergin-ski's \"Yid Du Partizaner\" — \"Fun di getos tfise vent/in di velder fraye/anshtot keytn oyf di hent/kh’alt a biks a naye!\" (\"From the ghetto's prison walls/into the free forests/Instead of chains on my hands/I carry a new rifle!\") The Camp Hemshekh Warsaw Ghetto Memorial Program (1975) script (PDF) The Camp Hemshekh Warsaw Ghetto Memorial Program (1976) script (PDF)\n\nSinging was an integral part of the camp. At breakfast, in the dimly lit dining room, campers belted out popular Yiddish and English camp tunes to the accompaniment of an aging piano; during rest hour, selected campers would rehearse the Yiddish musical numbers for the \"Visiting Day\" plays, the midsummer Holocaust commemoration or some other cultural event; and a favorite pastime for campers and counselors alike was sitting with friends under the \"Milkh Boym\" (Milk Tree), strumming the guitar, and trying to remember all the lyrics to Bob Dylan and Phil Ochs hits.\n\nThere were two version of the \"Ghetto \"Denkmol\"\". The first \"Ghetto \"Denkmol\"\" was a small, white wooden booth and had a mosiac of a Ghetto fighter built in 1962 by the now world-famous architect, Daniel Libeskind. The second version was a simple memorial that consisted of a replica of the barbed-wire, glass-encrusted ghetto wall, and six black signposts of representing the 6 million Jews murdered, each one inscribed, in Yiddish, with the name of a death camp. In the center stood a striking mosaic of the same ghetto fighter built by Daniel Libeskind. His mosaic partisan was a young man dressed in military-style garb, triumphantly stepping out of flames, one arm thrusting a rifle, the other with fist clenched. The face was an oval devoid of features.\n\nOn \"Ghetto Day\", a boy and girl from the group of oldest campers stood \"vakh\" (Yiddish for watch or vigil) at the \"Denkmol\" throughout the day. Dressed in work-shirts and red bandanas, they were silent and solemn, changing shifts every hour so that the wall was never unguarded, and so all the oldest campers had the chance to perform this honor.\n\nMemory was embedded everywhere, beginning with the camp's name: Hemshekh means \"continuation\" in Yiddish. A banner above the stage in the hall where we performed plays and had socials implored, \"Lomir Trogn Dem Gayst Vos Men Hot Undz Fartroyt\" — \"Let us carry the spirit that has been entrusted to us.\" A small rock garden where we held campfires and meetings was named in honor of Froim Lozer, a Bundist who had fought for a small park to be built in the crowded, dirty industrial city of Łódź for workers to enjoy a bit of air after long hours in the textile factories. Even nature was pressed into the service of memory: Small wooden plaques nailed to trees bore the names Henryk Ehrlich and Viktor Alter, Bundist activists and resistance organizers murdered by Joseph Stalin's police, and Mordechai Anielewicz, the 23-year-old commander of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising.\n\n\nOn Sunday, November 15, 1987, a Camp Hemshekh reunion was held on the Windows on the World restaurant, at the World Trade Center. About 200 campers, from all over the world came.\n\nThere was a reunion on October 10, 1999 which was held at the Terrace On The Park party venue located in Flushing Meadows Park. Almost 400 former campers, counselors and others affiliated with the Camp were contacted/invited. (The existence of the \"new\" internet proved a great help in tracking people down.) Approximately 200 former \"Hemshekhists\" attended while an additional 40+ spouses and children joined in the festivities. \n\nAt the reunion all attendees receive a booklet that was a combination Songbook and Address List. The songbook included 104 songs -- three-quarters of which were in Yiddish (always provided in Yiddish orthography as well as in transliteration) -- which were well known throughout the 20-year existence of the Camp. \n\nFrom a certain point of view, it was unfortunate that the address list was comprised entirely as snail-mail addresses. Unfortunate, because between 1998 (when planning for this reunion began) and roughly 2001, snail-mail was essentially replaced by email for personal contact. \n\nOn the other hand, because of those snail-mail address we know that the people who attended this particular reunion came from 18 different U.S. states, three Canadian provinces, and a pair of foreign countries (UK and Israel).\n\n<For all of this, I should mention that I was THE coordinator/manager of this reunion. Of course, many others helped, but I'm probably the only person with computer files documenting the information I've provided. Only once in my life (previously) have a made an edit on Wikipedia. I no longer remember what it was - only that it was a factual error that was pretty small. So, I don't know what kind of documentation you would like. For example, my source for attendees is a spreadsheet that I have in my possession and does not exist anywhere on the internet. Do you want me to upload it someplace. As for the Songbook/AddressList -- would you like a copy? (Just kidding, but I have about 30 leftovers in a drawer in my apartment. I'm afraid no pdf was ever created. I sent spreadsheets and word docs to a printed who compiled it. I mean it was 1999 after all.>\n\nOn October 10 through October 12, 2009 (Columbus Day Weekend), Camp Hemshekh had its 50th Anniversary Reunion in New York City. The main event took place on Sunday, October 11, 2009, at the Workmen's Circle Building. It began at noon, and continued through the night.\n\nSaturday's activities consisted of informal house pot-luck gatherings at the homes of \"Hemshekhistn\" from the different generations of camp, who live in or near New York City. No less than nine campers visited the old campsites at the Hunter and Mountaindale campsites. Photos of the remnants of the campsites were posted on the walls at the main event, along with photos of the camp, and campers from the different years. At least five hundred photos were taken during the various parts reunion. Extensive, yet rough video footage was taken at the main event. Using that footage, previous films and the many photographs of Camp Hemshekh, a basic film is planned to be created. The majority of uploaded photos and videos of this reunion, previous ones, and of Hemshekh in general, can be found on the Camp Hemshekh Facebook group, here, and here. This reunion was mainly organized by the \"Reunion Komitet\" (Reunion Committee), including George Rothe, Sabina Brukner, Michael \"Toes\" Rosenberg and Lisa Geduldig. About 200 campers came to the main event.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14912557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14912557", "title": "Caucasus Emirate", "text": "Caucasus Emirate\n\nThe Caucasus Emirate ( (IK); ), also known as the Caucasian Emirate, was a militant Jihadist organisation active in the southwestern region of the Russian Federation. Its intention was to expel the Russian presence from the North Caucasus and to establish an independent Islamic emirate in the region. Caucasus Emirate also refers to the state that the group seeks to establish. Partially a successor to the secessionist Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, it was officially announced on 7 October 2007, by former President of Ichkeria Dokka Umarov, who became its first emir.\n\nBy late 2015 the group no longer had a visible presence in the North Caucasus region, as most of its members defected to the local ISIL affiliate, Vilayat Kavkaz.\n\nFollowing the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Chechen nationalists, led by Dzhokhar Dudayev, declared the secession of Chechnya from Russia as an independent Chechen Republic of Ichkeria (ChRI). Following two devastating wars with the Russian Federation in the nineties, the ChRI fought an insurgency against the Russian forces and their Chechen allies from 2000, initially under the leadership of Aslan Maskhadov. Although the ChRI was largely founded by Sufi Muslims motivated by nationalism, over time the literalist Salafist form of Islam became increasingly popular with some Chechens, leading to a schism between nationalists and Salafists. As many of the original nationalist figures were killed by Russian forces, the insurgency took on an increasingly Salafist tone embodied by commanders like Shamil Basayev and the Arab fighter Khattab. Many of the surviving nationalists gave up the fight, and by the time Dokka Umarov was declared President of Ichkeria in June 2006, Islamists held increasing influence in the movement.\n\nOn 7 October 2007, President of Ichkeria Dokka Umarov abolished the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria and its presidency and proclaimed an Emirate in the Caucasus, declaring himself its Emir. The declaration of the Caucasus Emirate was quickly condemned by Akhmed Zakayev, Umarov's own minister of foreign affairs; Zakayev, who lives in exile in London, called upon all Chechen separatist fighters and politicians to pledge allegiance directly to his government in exile in an attempt to isolate Umarov from power. Zakayev also expressed regret that Umarov had caved in to pressure from \"provocateurs\" and committed a \"crime\" that undermines the legitimacy of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria. Umarov said that he did not need any sanction from the Majlis-ul-Shura (the council of rebel field commanders) or anybody else to declare the Emirate, as it is \"his duty as a Muslim\" to establish an Islamic state \"as required by Sharia.\"\n\nOn 1 August 2010 Kavkaz Center, the official web site of the Emirate, distributed a video where Dokka Umarov indicated that he had stepped down from his position as Emir and appointed Aslambek Vadalov to become his successor. However, on 3 August 2010. A few days later Umarov said he had no intention of stepping down and called the video announcing his resignation a fabrication. The announcements drove the emirate into a state of turmoil, with several key rebel leaders resigning their loyalty to Umarov. This combined with the death of Muhannad is believed to have paved the way for Hussein Gakayev, Aslambek Vadalov and Tarkhan Gaziyev to re-affirm their allegiance to Umarov. Umarov would die in September 2013 from food poisoning. Aliaskhab Kebekov was announced 6 months later as his successor.\n\nIn the period from 2010 to 2014, the number of casualties in the North Caucasus insurgency declined each year, with the overall death toll falling by more than half. Reasons suggested for the decline include the deaths of high-ranking insurgency commanders, the increased targeting by security forces of the support infrastructure relied on by the insurgents, and an exodus of insurgents to other conflict zones.\n\nStarting in November 2014, mid-level commanders of the Caucasus Emirate began publicly switching their allegiance from Emirate leader Aliaskhab Kebekov to the Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, following al-Baghdadi and his group's declaration of a caliphate earlier in the year. By February 2015, many commanders of the Emirate's Vilayat Nokhchicho and Vilayat Dagestan had defected. Loyalists within the Emirate released statements denouncing them, and accused the most senior defector, Rustam Asildarov, of betrayal. Vilayat Nokhchicho leader Aslan Byutukayev pledged allegiance to al-Baghdadi in June 2015, and an audio statement was released in the same month purportedly pledging allegiance on behalf of militants in Dagestan, Chechnya, Ingushetia and Kabardino-Balkaria. On 23 June 2015, ISIL's spokesman Abu Mohammad al-Adnani accepted these pledges and announced the creation of a Caucasus Province, a new branch operating in the North Caucasus region. Adnani named Asildarov as its leader and called on other militants in the region to follow him.\n\nThe Caucasus Emirate continued to operate independently, but suffered further high-profile losses, including the killing by Russian security forces of Kebekov in April 2015, and his successor Magomed Suleymanov several months later. By late 2015, the militants still operating in Russia's North Caucasus Republics had largely unified under ISIL's \"Caucasus Province\".\n\nThe Caucasus Emirate is claimed to be composed of the following \"Vilayats\" (provinces):\n\nIn August 2008 Movladi Udugov, an ideologue and a spokesman for the Caucasus Emirate, said that \"as Dokka Umarov very accurately observed, this Islamic state does not yet have any borders. It’s not correct to say that we want to build some sort of enclave on the territory of these North Caucasus republics. No, today many Muslims living in Tatarstan, Bashkortostan, Buryatia, Russians from the most widely differing regions of Russia who have accepted Islam, swear an oath of allegiance to Dokka Umarov as the legitimate leader of the Muslims. And wherever he is – in Moscow, Blagoveshchensk, Tyumen – when a Muslim swears that oath, he becomes a fighting unit. Just because these people are not visible in their cities just now and are not active, that doesn’t mean that they won’t become active in the future.\"\n\nIn a May 2011 interview posted on the pro Caucasus Emirate Kavkaz Center website, Umarov stated \"Now we know that we should not secede, but must unite with our brothers in faith. We must recapture Astrakhan, Idel-Ural, Siberia and indigenous Muslim lands.\"\n\nProfessor Gordon M. Hahn of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, described the Caucasus Emirate to be a decentralized organisation, but structured hierarchically with Emir Dokku Umarov appointing the Emirs of each Vilayat or Province, who in turn swear him a bay'at or oath of allegiance. Each vilayat contains multiple Fronts or Sectors, which in turn contain multiple Jamaats or units. The vilayats, sectors and local jamaats independently raise funds, recruit members and carry out operations, while following the overall strategy as set by the Emirate's leadership.\n\nIn May 2009, Umarov established a ruling consultative body, or Majlis al Shura, for the Caucasus Emirate consisting of his top commanders. At the time of the announcement, the positions and the individuals holding them were:\n\nThe Caucasus Emirate maintains a Supreme Sharia Court, which is headed by a Qadi. This position has been held by Anzor Astemirov (killed in March 2010), Magomed Vagabov (killed August 2010), and Aliaskhab Kebekov (killed in April 2015).\n\nIn early 2009, Dokka Umarov announced the revival of the shahid suicide attackers unit Riyad-us Saliheen Brigade of Martyrs, which has been led by Said Buryatsky (killed March 2010) and Aslan Byutukayev.\n\nUmarov died due to food poisoning on 7 September 2013. He was succeeded by Aliaskhab Kebekov (killed April 2015) and Magomed Suleymanov (killed August 2015).\n\nCaucasus Emirate receives significant funds from overseas Islamic terrorist organizations, but the primary source of funding for the Caucasus Emirate is a wide range of criminal activity. Militants extort money from local businessmen and residents in their areas of operation under the premise of a religious tax. Russian media reports in early 2011 claimed that militants extorted a 20 per cent \"jihad\" tax from prominent figures considered to be pro-government. In addition to extortion, Russian officials have alleged that Caucasus Emirate militants also derive funds from involvement in drug trafficking and robbery. \n\nIn the same October 2007 statement in which Umarov proclaimed the Caucasian Emirate, he also described the United States, Great Britain and Israel as common enemies of Muslims worldwide. However, on November 20, 2007, Anzor Astemirov, then head of the Vilayet KBK, said that \"Even if we wanted to threaten America and Europe every day, it is clear for anybody who understands politics that we do not have any real clashes of interests [with the West]. The people in the White House know very well that we have nothing to do with America at the moment.\" In his statement, Astemirov not only described the Caucasian rebels' threats against the West as empty, but also even asked the United States for assistance in their fight against \"Russian aggression.\" Following its criticism, many rebel websites removed the phrase that regarded Western countries as enemies.\n\nOn August 9, 2008 in response to the conflict between Georgia and Russia, Movladi Udugov stated that \"for the time being neither Tbilisi nor Washington has appealed to us with any requests or offers\" to fight alongside Georgian forces against the Russian forces. Udugov also noted: \"But I clearly can say that the command of the Caucasus Emirate is following with great interest the development of the situation.\"\n\nA number of Chechen and other North Caucasian volunteers travelled to fight in the Syrian Civil War against the government of Bashar al-Assad. Dokku Umarov released a video in November 2012 expressing support for all those trying to install Sharia law in Syria, but rebuked those who had weakened the Jihad in the North Caucasus by leaving to fight there. However, as the war went on and North Caucasians took an increasingly prominent role in the fighting owing to their combat experience, those who went to fight in Syria were viewed increasingly positively by the Emirate's websites and supporters.\n\nIn 2013, a Chechen known as Emir Salauddin was appointed as the official representative of the Caucasus Emirate in Syria. In December 2013, the Chechen-led Syrian jihadist group Jaish al-Muhajireen wal-Ansar (JMA) split away from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and appointed Salauddin as their new commander, emphasising that they wished to continue respecting the Oath of Allegiance they had made to the Caucasus Emirate's Dokku Umarov. Following his appointment as the Emirates new leader, Aliaskhab Kebekov advised the North Caucasians in Syria to remain independent rather than align with other groups. He also voiced support for Al-Qaeda affiliated Al-Nusra Front and criticised Abu Omar al-Shishani, the Chechen commander who formerly led JMA before joining ISIL. In mid 2015, JMA suffered a leadership split, and Salauddin and those fighters loyal to him formed a smaller offshoot that reiterated their loyalty to the Caucasus Emirate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41999014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41999014", "title": "Common Core implementation by state", "text": "Common Core implementation by state\n\n46 states initially adopted the Common Core State Standards, although implementation has not been uniform. At least 12 states have introduced legislation to repeal the standards outright, and Indiana has since withdrawn from the standards.\n\nAmong the territories of the United States, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the American Samoa Islands have adopted the standards while Puerto Rico has not adopted the standards. Arizona had also successfully repealed Common Core as of 2015; infographic to be updated later.\n\nAlabama initially adopted the Standards, but the state rescinded adoption in November 2013. Governor Robert Bentley cited federal interventions as a reason for his opposition, saying he was opposed because of \"federal control of our education system. And I'm opposed to the Common Core because of the potential for federal intrusion.\" The state's curriculum, now called the College and Career Ready Standards, is still aligned with the Common Core standards.\n\nAlaska opted out of adopting the Standards. While debate persists in Alaska, the state has adopted its own new standards called the Alaska Content and Performance Standards that Education Commissioner Mike Hanley has described as \"substantially similar\" to the Common Core standards, and many local districts have chosen to adopt the standards even though the state has not. Parents have the right to opt their kids out of standardized testing.\n\nArizona formally adopted the Standards. In 2014, Governor Jan Brewer signed an executive order that removes references to \"Common Core\" from the state's math and reading standards, although they are still aligned with the national standards. The name of the standards have been changed to \"Arizona's College and Career Ready Standards.\" In the legislature, the Senate Education Committee passed a bill that would withdraw Arizona from Common Core. As of October 26, 2015, the Arizona State Board of Education elected to repeal the Common Core standards in a 6-2 vote.\n\nArkansas formally adopted the Standards in 2010. Multiple proposals during the 2014 fiscal year in the state legislature to delay implementation were not adopted.\nArkansas is a governing member of PARCC.\n\nCalifornia formally adopted the Standards. Governor Jerry Brown allocated $1.25 billion in the state budget to assist with implementation, but also assured educators that Core-aligned tests will not be used as part of teacher evaluations through the 2015-2016 school year. The grant remains controversial with California teacher's unions because of concerns of the use and size of the grant.\nCalifornia is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nColorado formally adopted the Standards in 2010. Citizen concerns about Common Core, however, have resulted in a bill drafted by a parent group to delay implementation and appoint an independent panel to look at the standards, with State Senator Vicki Marble agreeing to carry it in the legislature.\n\nConnecticut formally adopted the Standards, but Governor Dannel Malloy has called for a delay in teacher evaluations based on Common Core testing, citing the stress of changing systems and saying \"it's important that we relieve the significant demands on teachers and administrators and systems.\" In a public forum in Old Lyme, State Representative Marilyn Giuliano called on the state to \"hit the pause button\" on implementation, saying she had introduced legislation to delay implementation until legislators had heard feedback.\nConnecticut is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nDelaware formally adopted the Standards as the ELA and math components of the Delaware Prioritized Standards. Implementation has been viewed as successful in the state.\n\nDelaware is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nWashington, DC, has adopted the Standards. The District of Columbia's implementation is noteworthy for the speed and investment it made in the standards.\nThe District of Columbia is a governing member of PARCC.\n\nFlorida initially adopted the Standards, but Gov. Rick Scott has directed the state education board to withdraw from the Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers. Scott also changed the name of the standards in Florida to Next Generation Sunshine State Standards, saying \"These are Florida standards...This is our state. We’re not going to have the federal government telling us how to do our education system.\"\n\nIn February 2014, the Department of Education approved 98 different changes to the Florida standards, scheduled to be implemented in the 2014-2015 school year.\n\nGeorgia formally adopted the Standards, but withdrew from the associated tests in July 2013. While implementation had been on track for the state, State Senator William Ligon filed legislation to withdraw from the Common Core entirely.\nOn 19 February 2015, Georgia formally renamed its standards the Georgia Standards of Excellence, which incorporate some revisions relative to the Common Core standards.\n\nHawaii formally adopted the Standards, with full classroom implementation beginning in the 2013-14 school year and aligned assessment beginning in 2014-15.\nHawaii is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nIdaho formally adopted the Standards as the ELA and math components of the Idaho Core Standards.\nIdaho is a governing member of SBAC and began testing in 2014.\n\nIllinois formally adopted the Standards and rolled out implementation during the 2013-14 school year.\nIllinois is a governing member of PARCC.\n\nIndiana initially adopted the Standards, but implementation was paused by law in May 2013. A bipartisan legislative panel failed to come to a consensus on continuing with the standards, and repeal legislation passed both the Indiana Senate and the State House Education Committee in February 2014, and the state formally withdrew from the Common Core in March 2014.\nThe state published its replacement, the Indiana Academic Standards, in April 2014.\n\nIowa formally adopted the Standards as the ELA and math components of Iowa Core, the state's K-12 curriculum standards.\nCommon Core was adopted in Iowa in 2010, with full implementation slated for completion in the 2014-2015 school year.\nIowa is an affiliate member of SBAC.\n\nKansas formally adopted the Standards in 2010, but defunding legislation successfully passed the State Senate in July 2013, narrowly failing in the State House. House Bill 2621 was introduced in the 2014 legislative session, and would declare the standards, as well as the Next Generation science standards the state adopted in 2013, \"null and void\" in the state.\nHowever, as of 2015, the Common Core standards, with additions specified by the state Board of Education, remain part of the Kansas College and Career Ready Standards.\n\nKansas was formerly a member of SBAC, but the Kansas State Board of Education withdrew from the consortium in 2013, instead planning to commission its assessment development in-state from an institute at Kansas University. Testing using this instrument will begin in spring 2016.\n\nKentucky was the first state to adopt Common Core in 2010 as part of the Kentucky Core Academic Standards, with curriculum rolled out in the 2011-12 school year. It was recently repealed in February 2017.\n\nLouisiana formally adopted the Standards, but delayed full Common Core implementation for two years in November 2013. Debate is expected when the state legislature convenes in March 2014, but testing is still scheduled to be implemented for the 2014-2015 school year. Governor Bobby Jindal has signaled an intention to end Common Core in the state, directing the Board of Education and the legislature to come up with an alternative that includes \"Louisiana standards and a Louisiana test.\"\nBobby Jindal curricular changes include rejection of the Common Core education standards for teaching English and math. In a response, several charter schools led by teachers and parents filed a lawsuit against the governor.\n\nLouisiana is an affiliate member of PARCC and its state assessment \"includes items developed through the PARCC process\".\n\nMaine formally adopted the Standards. The Maine Equal Rights Center has launched a petition drive to add a question on the 2014 ballot that would remove Maine from Common Core, but Governor Paul LePage has shown support for the standards.\nMaine recently withdrew from SBAC.\n\nMaryland formally adopted the Standards, although there has been significant resistance to the implementation in the state from educators, lawmakers, and citizens, including a planned push by State Republican legislators to withdraw from the consortium. Maryland is one of five states that has received permission from the federal government, under No Child Left Behind, to not test students under both Common Core and the state-level tests.\n\nLegislation has also been filed in the state senate to delay teacher evaluation based on Common Core tests until the 2016-2017. This legislation is supported by the Maryland Superintendent of Schools Lillian Lowery. Another Senate bill has been filed that would leave teacher performance evaluations in the hands of local school boards.\n\nMaryland is a governing member of PARCC.\n\nMassachusetts formally adopted the Standards, but delayed transition to the Common Core for two years in November 2013. common core was rescinded in 2017\n\nMichigan formally adopted the Standards, although implementation was paused for a time and was later approved to continue without the Smarter Balanced testing.\nMichigan is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nMinnesota partially adopted the Standards. The state chose to adopt the English standards only, rejecting the math standards in favor of their own.\n\nMississippi formally adopted the Standards.\n\nMississippi is an affiliate member of PARCC.\n\nMissouri formally adopted the Standards. Opposition to Common Core has been labeled as paranoia by some state legislators, causing one State Representative on the education panel to add an $8 appropriation for \"two rolls of high density aluminum to create headgear designed to deflect drone and/or black helicopter mind reading and control technology.\"\nMissouri is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nMontana formally adopted the Standards. Multiple Montana education award winners wrote an opinion piece supporting Common Core, and, among educators and legislators, adoption has gone smoothly, but there has been pushback by some who voice concern about state sovereignty and that implementation violates the Montana State Constitution.\nMontana is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nNebraska did not adopt the Standards. Reasons cited for not adopting included skepticism about the math standards and the lack of formalized standards being available at the time of adoption.\n\nNevada formally adopted the Standards in 2012. There has been no significant opposition to the implementation, but the Department of Education launched a messaging campaign in February 2014 to quell a growing backlash in Northern Nevada.\nNevada is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nNew Hampshire formally adopted the Standards. A bill to withdraw from the standards is currently in the New Hampshire House of Representatives, but the state is still on track to begin testing in Spring 2015.\nNew Hampshire is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nNew Jersey formally adopted the Standards. New Jersey's Board of Education has repeatedly passed resolutions reaffirming their commitment to the standards. Governor Chris Christie has vowed to pull the state out of common core.\n\nNew Jersey is a governing member of PARCC.\n\nNew Mexico formally adopted the Standards.\nNew Mexico is a governing member of PARCC.\n\nNew York formally adopted the Standards. The State Board of Regents delayed implementation for five extra years in February 2014 to give schools more time to implement, as well as offering teachers two years amnesty from being evaluated on the standards. This delay means that the standards will not be a requirement for high school students until 2022. Issues have also prompted the state's leading teacher union, New York State Teachers United, to withdraw their support of the standards \"as implemented,\" also calling for the resignation of State Education Commissioner John King and a three-year moratorium on testing. Other implementation actions have occurred, however, with Governor Andrew Cuomo convening an oversight panel.\n\nNew York is a governing member of PARCC, but is not yet using their assessments statewide; in 2015 they are piloting the test in 25 schools.\n\nNorth Carolina formally adopted the Standards. The state was one of the first to adopt the standards, but hearings were held in 2014 to discuss the future of the standards in the state, with Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest calling for a commission to complete a detailed review of the standards. The North Carolina general assembly will consider a bill in May 2014 that would result in North Carolina moving away from the standards while creating a new set of educational standards to replace it.\nNorth Carolina is an affiliate member of SBAC.\n\nNorth Dakota formally adopted the Standards. A Bill proposed in the state legislature on 2/12/2015 to eliminate common core in the state schools was defeated 46-48. North Dakota is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nOhio formally adopted the Standards. In 2013, legislation was filed by Ohio Republicans to bar adoption of the standards. Another bill was introduced in January 2014 to end testing of students. Ohio recently withdrew from PARCC.\n\nOklahoma formally adopted the Standards, but tentatively withdrew from the associated tests in July 2013. Multiple bills had been introduced in the Oklahoma legislature to repeal the standards, and the standards were officially repealed in June 2014.\n\nOregon State Board of Education formally adopted the Standards on October 28, 2010, one of the first states to do so. Oregon is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nPennsylvania formally adopted the Standards, but Governor Tom Corbett paused implementation in May 2013 after finding a split among lawmaker opinion, and the state has announced they are withdrawing from associated tests.\n\nRhode Island formally adopted the Standards, but, as of February 2014, calls for delays or repeal have increased, with State Representative Gregg Amore introducing legislation that would delay implementation.\nRhode Island is a governing member of PARCC.\n\nSouth Carolina formally adopted the Standards, although the standards have been controversial. Governor Nikki Haley criticized the standards, saying \"We don’t ever want to educate South Carolina children like they educate California children.\" A bill to repeal the standards beginning in the 2015-2016 school year was officially signed by Governor Haley in June 2014 after deliberation in the state legislature.\n\nSouth Dakota formally adopted the Standards. Multiple bills addressing Common Core are in the State Senate, but a bill that would have replaced Common Core with a different state standard was defeated in committee.\nSouth Dakota is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nTennessee formally adopted the Standards. According to polling done by the Tennessee Consortium on Research, Evaluation and Development, teachers in Tennessee have a positive outlook on the standards and implementation. The Bradley County Commission, however, voted to back bills in the Tennessee House and Senate that would \"discontinue the use of the Common Core state standards.\" Multiple proposals have been filed to scale back, delay, or outright repeal the standards in Tennessee. Tennessee passed a law to phase out common core in 2016. The new standard, The Tennessee Academic Standards, were implemented in English and Math for the 2017/2018 school year.\n\nTexas did not adopt the Standards, and is not a member of the consortium. Governor Rick Perry opposed adoption in 2010, citing issues of states rights, federal intrusion in education, implementation costs, and \"the adoption of unproven, cost-prohibitive national standards and tests.\"\n\nUtah formally adopted the Standards, but withdrew from the Smarter Balanced Assessment Consortium in August 2012.\n\nVermont formally adopted the Standards. Vermont is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nVirginia did not adopt the Standards, and is not a member of the consortium. While the Virginia Board of Education opposed adoption, stating that they were \"committed to the Virginia Standards of Learning (SOL) program and opposed to adoption of the newly developed Common Core State Standards as a prerequisite for participation in federal competitive grant and entitlement programs,\" a state evaluation found that the Standards of Learning were \"generally aligned\" with Common Core.\n\nWashington formally adopted the Standards. Washington is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nWest Virginia formally adopted the Standards. West Virginia renamed the standards \"West Virginia's Next Generation Content Standards,\" and two bills have been filed in the state legislature. One bill, House Bill 4383, would delay implementation until 2016. The other, House Bill 4390, would withdraw West Virginia from Common Core completely.\nWest Virginia is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nWisconsin formally adopted the Standards. A bill was fast-tracked in the legislature that would have repealed the standards in Wisconsin, but it was pulled from the floor in February 2014. It is believed that the bill will be reconsidered in March 2014. Governor Scott Walker supports the bill, while the Wisconsin Schools Superintendent Tony Evers has written to the legislature in opposition.\nWisconsin is a governing member of SBAC.\n\nWyoming formally adopted the Standards. A bill in the State House of Representatives would convene a panel of parents and educators to consider the future of Common Core in the state, as well as prohibits the state from entering into the Smarter Balanced Assessment Consortium.\nWyoming is an affiliate member of SBAC.\n"}
{"id": "262626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262626", "title": "Concert of Europe", "text": "Concert of Europe\n\nThe Concert of Europe, also known as the Congress System or the Vienna System after the Congress of Vienna, was a system of dispute resolution adopted by the major powers of Europe to avoid future conflicts escalating into war, and to solidify and maintain their power in their respective controlled regions.\n\nThe more conservative members of the Concert of Europe, who were also members of the Holy Alliance, used this system to oppose revolutionary movements, weaken the forces of nationalism, and uphold the balance of power. Historians date its operation from the end of the Napoleonic Wars (1815) to the early 1820s, although some see it playing a role until the Crimean War (1853–1856).\n\nThe Concert of Europe was founded by the powers of Austria, Prussia, Russia and the United Kingdom, which were the members of the Quadruple Alliance that defeated Napoleon and his First French Empire. In time, France was established as a fifth member of the Concert, following the restoration of the Bourbon monarchy.\n\nAt first, the leading personalities of the system were British foreign secretary Lord Castlereagh, Austrian Chancellor Klemens von Metternich and Tsar Alexander I of Russia. Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord of France was largely responsible for quickly returning that country to its place alongside the other major powers in international diplomacy.\nThe age of the Concert is sometimes known as the Age of Metternich, due to the influence of the Austrian chancellor's conservatism and the dominance of Austria within the German Confederation, or as the European Restoration, because of the reactionary efforts of the Congress of Vienna to restore Europe to its state before the French Revolution. It is known in German as the Pentarchie (pentarchy) and in Russian as the Vienna System (Венская система, \"Venskaya sistema\").\n\nThe Concert of Europe had no written rules or permanent institutions, but at times of crisis any of the member countries could propose a conference. Meetings of the Great Powers during this period included Aix-la-Chapelle (1818), Carlsbad (1819), Troppau (1820), Laibach (1821), and Verona (1822).\n\nThe Concert's effectiveness came to an end because of many factors such as the British distrust of Russia.\n\nThe idea of a European federation had been already raised by figures such as Gottfried Leibniz and Lord Grenville. The Concert of Europe, as developed by Metternich, drew upon their ideas and the notion of a balance of power in international relations, so that the ambitions of each Great Power would be restrained by the others:\n\nThe Concert of Europe, as it began to be called at the time, had ... a reality in international law, which derived from the final Act of the Vienna Congress, which stipulated that the boundaries established in 1815 could not be altered without the consent of its eight signatories.\n\nFrom the outbreak of the French Revolutionary Wars in 1792 to the exile of Napoleon to Saint Helena in 1815, Europe had been almost constantly at war. During this time, the military conquests of France had resulted in the spread of liberalism throughout much of the continent, resulting in many states adopting the Napoleonic code. Largely as a reaction to the radicalism of the French Revolution, most victorious powers of the Napoleonic Wars resolved to suppress liberalism and nationalism, and revert largely to the \"status quo\" of Europe prior to 1789.\n\nThe Kingdom of Prussia, and the Austrian and Russian empires, formed the Holy Alliance (26 September 1815) with the expressed intent of preserving Christian social values and traditional monarchism. Every member of the anti-Napoleonic coalition promptly joined the Alliance, except for the United Kingdom, a constitutional monarchy with a more liberal political philosophy. The great powers were now in a system of meeting wherever a problem arose. Britain and France did not send their representatives because they opposed the idea of intervention.\n\nBritain did however ratify the Quadruple Alliance, signed on the same day as the Second Peace Treaty of Paris (20 November 1815), which became the Quintuple Alliance when France joined in 1818. It was also signed by the same three powers that had signed the Holy Alliance on 26 September 1815.\n\nThere has been much debate between historians as to which treaty was more influential in the development of international relations in Europe in the two decades following the end of the Napoleonic Wars. In the opinion of historian Tim Chapman the differences are somewhat academic, as the powers were not bound by the terms of the treaties and many of them intentionally broke the terms if it suited them.\n\nThe Holy Alliance was the brainchild of Tsar Alexander I. It gained a lot of support because most European monarchs did not wish to offend the Tsar by refusing to sign it, and as it bound monarchs personally rather than their governments, it was easy to ignore once signed. Only three notable princes did not sign: Pope Pius VII (it was not Catholic enough), Sultan Mahmud II of the Ottoman Empire, and the British Prince Regent because his government did not wish to pledge itself to the policing of continental Europe. In the opinion of Lord Castlereagh, the British foreign secretary at the time of its inception, the Holy Alliance was \"a piece of sublime mysticism and nonsense\". Although it did not fit comfortably within the complex, sophisticated and cynical web of power politics that epitomised diplomacy of the post-Napoleonic era, its influence was more long lasting than its contemporary critics expected and was revived in the 1820s as a tool of repression when the terms of the Quintuple Alliance were not seen to fit the purposes of some of the Great Powers of Europe.\n\nThe Quadruple Alliance, by contrast, was a standard treaty, and the four Great Powers did not invite any of their allies to sign it. The primary objective was to bind the signatories to support the terms of the Second Treaty of Paris for 20 years. It included a provision for the High Contracting Parties to \"renew their meeting at fixed periods...for the purpose of consulting on their common interests\" which were the \"prosperity of the Nations, and the maintenance of peace in Europe\". A problem with the wording of of the treaty is that it did not specify what these \"fixed periods\" were to be and there were no provisions in the treaty for a permanent commission to arrange and organise the conferences. This meant that the first conference in 1818 dealt with remaining issues of the French wars, but after that instead of meeting at \"fixed periods\" the meetings were arranged on an ad hoc basis, to address specific threats, such as those posed by revolutions, for which the treaty was not drafted.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe territorial boundaries laid down at the Congress of Vienna were maintained; even more important, there was an acceptance of the theme of balance with no major aggression. Otherwise, the Congress system, says historian Roy Bridge, \"failed\" by 1823. In 1818, the British decided not to become involved in continental issues that did not directly affect them. They rejected the plan of Alexander I to suppress future revolutions. The Concert system fell apart as the common goals of the Great Powers were replaced by growing political and economic rivalries. Artz says the Congress of Verona in 1822 \"marked the end.\" There was no Congress called to restore the old system during the great revolutionary upheavals of 1848 with their demands for revision of the Congress of Vienna's frontiers along national lines.\n\nHistorian Paul Hayes says of British foreign minister George Canning:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2478201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2478201", "title": "Condon Committee", "text": "Condon Committee\n\nThe Condon Committee was the informal name of the University of Colorado UFO Project, a group funded by the United States Air Force from 1966 to 1968 at the University of Colorado to study unidentified flying objects under the direction of physicist Edward Condon. The result of its work, formally titled Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying Objects, and known as the Condon Report, appeared in 1968.\n\nAfter examining hundreds of UFO files from the Air Force's Project Blue Book and from the civilian UFO groups National Investigations Committee On Aerial Phenomena (NICAP) and Aerial Phenomena Research Organization (APRO), and investigating sightings reported during the life of the Project, the Committee produced a \"Final Report\" that said the study of UFOs was unlikely to yield major scientific discoveries.\n\nThe Report's conclusions were generally welcomed by the scientific community and have been cited as a decisive factor in the generally low level of interest in UFO activity among academics since that time. According to a principal critic of the Report, it is \"the most influential public document concerning the scientific status of this UFO problem. Hence, all current scientific work on the UFO problem must make reference to the Condon Report\".\n\nBeginning in 1947 with Project Sign, which then became Project Grudge and finally Project Blue Book, the U.S. Air Force conducted formal studies of UFOs, a subject of considerable public and some governmental interest. Blue Book had come under increasing criticism in the 1960s. Growing numbers of critics—including U.S. politicians, newspaper writers, UFO researchers, scientists and some of the general public—were suggesting that Blue Book was conducting shoddy, unsupported research or perpetrating a cover up. The Air Force did not want to continue its studies but did not want a cessation of studies to provoke additional charges of a cover-up. UFOs had become such a controversial issue that no other government agency was willing to take on further UFO studies.\n\nFollowing a wave of UFO reports in 1965, astronomer and Blue Book consultant J. Allen Hynek wrote a letter to the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board (AFSAB) suggesting that a panel convene to re-examine Blue Book. The AFSAB agreed and the committee it formed, chaired by Brian O'Brien, convened for one day in February, 1966, and suggested UFO studies could be undertaken \"in more detail and depth than had been possible to date\" and that the U.S. Air Force should work \"with a few selected universities to provide scientific teams\" to study UFOs. The Committee suggested that about 100 well-documented UFO sightings should be studied annually, with about 10 man-days devoted to each case.\n\nAt a Congressional UFO hearing on April 5, 1966, Air Force Secretary Harold Brown defended the Air Force's UFO studies and repeated the O'Brien Committee's call for more studies. Hynek repeated his call for \"a civilian panel of physical and social scientists\" to \"examine the UFO problem critically for the express purpose of determining whether a major problem exists.\" Shortly after the hearing, the Air Force announced it was seeking one or more universities to undertake a study of UFOs. The Air Force wanted to have several groups, but it took some time to find even a single school willing to accept the Air Force's offer. Both Hynek and James E. McDonald suggested their own campuses, Northwestern University and the University of Arizona, and others suggested astronomer Donald Menzel. All were judged too closely allied with one position or another. Walter Orr Roberts, director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research, and Menzel suggested physicist Edward Condon of the University of Colorado.\n\nIn the summer of 1966, Condon agreed to consider the Air Force's offer. He was among the best known and most distinguished scientists of his time. Condon's tenacious encounters with the House Unamerican Activities Committee and other government Loyalty Boards in the 1940s and 1950s made him \"almost legendary\" among fellow scientists. On Condon's behalf, Robert J. Low, an assistant dean of the university's graduate program, explored faculty reaction to the proposed project and found it mixed and wary. He tried to reassure those who found the enterprise unworthy of scientific investigation. Low told the \"Denver Post\" that the project had met the University's acceptance threshold by the narrowest of margins and was accepted largely because it was difficult to say no to the Air Force. Some have suggested that finances were factor in Colorado's decision to accept the Air Force's offer of $313,000 for the project. Condon dismissed this suggestion, noting that $313,000 was a rather modest budget for an undertaking scheduled to last more than a year with a staff of over a dozen.\n\nOn October 6, 1966, the University of Colorado agreed to undertake the UFO study, with Condon as director, Low as coordinator, and Saunders and astronomer Franklin E. Roach as co-principal investigators. The Air Force announced its selection of Condon and the University of Colorado in October 1966. Other Committee members included astronomer William K. Hartmann; psychologists Michael Wertheimer, Dan Culbertson and James Wadsworth, a graduate student; chemist Roy Craig; electrical engineer Norman Levine and physicist Frederick Ayer. Several other scientists or experts served in part-time and temporary roles or as consultants. Public response to the Committee's announcement was generally positive\n\nWhen the Project was announced, \"The Nation\", commented: \"If Dr. Condon and his associates come up with anything less than the little green men from Mars, they will be crucified.\"\n\nIn November 1966, retired USMC Major Donald Keyhoe and Richard H. Hall, both of NICAP, briefed the panel. They agreed to share NICAP's research files and to improve the collection of UFO reports. The Committee also secured help from APRO, another civilian UFO research group. The Committee moved slowly, hampered by disagreements about the use of funds and methodology. By hiring people with no prior position on UFOs, the Committee staff lacked expertise and subject matter expertise. As they began their analyses, Committee members usually worked without coordination with one another. Individuals embraced diverse approaches, especially with respect to the extraterrestrial hypothesis (ETH).\n\nIn late January 1967, Condon said in a lecture that he thought the government should not study UFOs because the subject was 'nonsense', adding, \"but I'm not supposed to reach that conclusion for another year.\" One NICAP member resigned from NICAP in protest and Saunders confronted Condon to express his concern that NICAP's withdrawal would eliminate a valuable source of case files and produce damaging publicity.\n\nIn July 1967, James E. McDonald, a confirmed believer in the validity of UFO sightings, learned from a Committee member about a memo Low had written on August 9, 1966, in which he reassured two University of Colorado administrators that they could expect the study to demonstrate that UFO observations had no basis in reality. McDonald, after locating a copy of the memo in the project's open files, wrote to Condon, quoting a few lines from it.\n\nIn response to the memo, on April 30, 1968, NICAP severed its ties with the Committee and Keyhoe circulated copies of Low's memo. Press coverage included an article in the May 1968 issue of \"Look\", \"Flying Saucer Fiasco\", that presented interviews with Saunders and Levine, detailed the controversy, and described the project as a \"$500,000 trick.\" Condon responded that the article contained \"falsehoods and misrepresentations.\" Scientific and technical journals reported the controversy. Representative J. Edward Roush said the \"Look\" article raised \"grave doubts as to the scientific profundity and objectivity of the project.\" He held a hearing dominated by critics of the Project. Low resigned from the Project in May 1968.\n\nSome later critics of the Committee's work saw little reason to make much of the memo. Committee member David Saunders wrote that \"to present Low as a plotter or conspirator is unfair and hardly accurate.\" Project investigator Roy Craig's later wrote that the memo did not trouble him because Condon had not known of the Low memo for eighteen months and it did not reflect his views. Condon wrote in the Project's \"Final Report\" that the memo's description of the Project as emphasizing the \"psychology and sociology\" of those who report UFO sightings showed how completely Low misunderstood the Project when he wrote the memo.\n\nDespite the withdrawal of NICAP from the Project, members of its Early Warning Network continued to report sightings to the investigators, as did journalists.\n\nScientists who anticipated the Committee would recommend against continued government UFO research rushed their own refutation into print in advance of the Committee's \"Final Report\". Called \"UFO's? Yes!\" and written by Saunders, it questioned whether the CIA wanted to divert public attention from UFOs. It used three cases to make the case for extraterrestrial activity. Project investigator Roy Craig later described each of the cases as \"utter nonsense,\" \"highly suspect,\" and unexplained but very weak.\n\nThe Committee delivered its Report to the Air Force in November 1968, which released it in January 1969. The Report, 1,485 pages in hardcover and 965 pages in paperback, divided UFO cases into five categories: old UFO reports from before the Committee convened, new reports, photographic cases, radar/visual cases, and UFOs reported by astronauts. Some UFO cases fell into multiple categories. Condon authored 6 pages of \"conclusions and recommendations,\" a 43-page \"summary,\" and a 50-page history of UFO phenomena and research over the preceding twenty years.\n\nIn his introductory \"Conclusions and Recommendations\", Condon wrote: \"Our general conclusion is that nothing has come from the study of UFOs in the past 21 years that has added to scientific knowledge. Careful consideration of the record as it is available to us leads us to conclude that further extensive study of UFOs probably cannot be justified in the expectation that science will be advanced thereby.\" He also recommended against the creation of a government program to investigate UFO reports. He also described the problem that confronts the scientific community, that each scientist must evaluate the record for himself, and that the \"Report\"'s recommendation against further research \"may not be true for all time.\" He advised that government agencies and private foundations \"ought to be willing to consider UFO research proposals...on an open-minded, unprejudiced basis...[E]ach individual case ought to be carefully considered on its own merits.\" In particular, the \"Report\" noted that there were gaps in scientific knowledge in the fields of \"atmospheric optics, including radio wave propagation, and of atmospheric electricity\" that might benefit from further research in the UFO field.\n\nThe \"Report\" detailed 59 case studies, though for legal reasons their locations were changed. \"New York Times\" science editor Walter Sullivan, in his introduction to the published version of the \"Report\", said the series \"reads like a modern, real-life collection of Sherlock Holmes episodes. The cases range from the eerily perplexing to the preposterously naive. The reader is given a taste of scientific method, even though the cases are often such that they defy anything approaching deductive analysis.\" Six chapters covered field studies of such physical evidence as electromagnetic affects, and visual and radar images. One treated the observations of U.S. astronauts.\n\nNotably in Case 02 in Section IV, Chapter 2 the report said of the 1956 Lakenheath-Bentwaters incident: \"In conclusion, although conventional or natural explanations certainly cannot be ruled out, the probability of such seems low in this case and the probability that at least one genuine UFO was involved appears to be fairly high.\" \n\nEven before its completion, the Air Force had asked the National Academy of Sciences to \"provide an independent assessment of the scope, the methodology, and the findings\" of the Committee. A panel chaired by Yale astronomer Gerald M. Clemence studied the Report for six weeks and concluded that \"on the basis of present knowledge the least likely explanation of UFOs is the hypothesis of extraterrestrial visitations by intelligent beings\" and that \"no high priority in UFO investigations is warranted by data of the past two decades.\"\n\nIn response to the Report's findings, the Air Force closed Project Blue Book, established in March 1952, on December 17, 1969.\n\nThe Report earned a mixed reception from scientists and academic journals, while receiving \"almost universal praise from the news media\". Many newspapers, magazines and journals which published approving reviews or editorials related to the Condon Report. Some compared any continued belief in UFOs with the belief that the earth is flat. Others predicted that interest in UFOs would wane and in a few generations be only dimly remembered. \"Science\", the official publication of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, said \"The Colorado Study is unquestionably the most thorough and sophisticated investigation of the nebulous UFO phenomenon ever conducted.\"\n\nThe March 8, 1969 issue of \"Nature\" offered a generally positive review for the Condon Report, but wondered why so much effort had been expended on such a subject: \"The Colorado project is a monumental achievement, but one of perhaps misapplied ingenuity. It would doubtless be inapt to compare it with earlier centuries' attempts to calculate how many angels could balance on the point of a pin; it is more like taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut, except that the nuts will be quite immune to its impact.\" On January 8, 1969, the \"New York Times\" headlined its coverage: \"U.F.O. Finding: No Visits From Afar.\" The article said that based on the Report, the ETH could finally be dismissed and all UFO reports had prosaic explanations. It noted that the Report had its critics, but characterized them as \"U.F.O. enthusiasts.\"\n\nCritics made their case repeatedly without obtaining the government support they sought. One described the Report as \"a rather unorganized compilation of independent articles on disparate subjects, a minority of which dealt with UFOs.\" Hynek described the Report as \"a voluminous, rambling, poorly organized\" and wrote that \"less than half...was addressed to the investigation of UFO reports.\" In the April 14, 1969 issue of Scientific Research, Robert L. M. Baker, Jr. wrote that the Condon Committee's Report \"seems to justify scientific investigation along many general and specialized frontiers.\" In the December 1969 issue of \"Physics Today\", Committee consultant Gerald Rothberg wrote that he had thoroughly investigated about 100 UFO cases, three of four of which left him puzzled. He thought that this \"residue of unexplained reports [indicated a] legitimate scientific controversy.\" Critics charged that Condon's case summaries were inaccurate or misleading with enigmatic reports \"buried\" among the confirmed cases.\n\nIn December 1969, physicist James E. McDonald called the Report \"inadequate\" and said \"it represents an examination of only a tiny fraction of the most puzzling UFO reports of the past two decades, and that its level of scientific argumentation is wholly unsatisfactory.\" In a 1969 issue of the \"American Journal of Physics\", Thornton Page reviewed the Condon Report and wrote: \"Intelligent laymen can (and do) point out the logical flaw in Condon's conclusion based on a statistically small (and selected) sample, Even in this sample a consistent pattern can be recognized; it is ignored by the 'authorities,' who then compound their 'felony' by recommending that no further observational data be collected.\"\n\nIn November 1970, the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics generally agreed with Condon's suggestion that little of value had been uncovered by scientific UFO studies, but \"did not find a basis in the report for [Condon's] prediction that nothing of scientific value will come of further studies.\"\n\nAstronomer J. Allen Hynek wrote that \"The Condon Report settled nothing.\" He called Condon's introduction \"singularly slanted\" and wrote that it \"avoided mentioning that there was embedded within the bowels of the report a remaining mystery; that the committee had been unable to furnish adequate explanations for more than a quarter of the cases examined.\" Hynek contended that \"Condon did not understand the nature and scope of the problem\" he was studying and objected to the idea that only extraterrestrial life could explain UFO activity. By focusing on this hypothesis, he wrote, the Report \"did not try to establish whether UFOs really constituted a problem for the scientist, whether physical or social.\"\n\nAstrophysicist Peter A. Sturrock wrote that \"critical reviews...came from scientists who had actually carried out research in the UFO area, while the laudatory reviews came from scientists who had not carried out such research.\" As an example, Sturrock noted a case in which an allegedly supersonic UFO did not produce a sonic boom. He notes that \"we should \"not\" assume that a more advanced civilization could not find some way at traveling with supersonic speeds without producing a sonic boom.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "231691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231691", "title": "Constitution Protection Office", "text": "Constitution Protection Office\n\nThe Constitution Protection Office (Hungarian: \"\"Alkotmányvédelmi Hivatal\", \"AH\"\") is a Hungarian internal security intelligence agency, formerly known as \"Nemzetbiztonsági Hivatal\" (en. Office of National Security). Its primary responsibilities are: counterintelligence, anticorruption, economic security and related proactive measures. The \"AH\" also leads investigations against organized crime and deals with (mainly internal) threats against society (such as subversion). \n\nAH is active since 2010.\n\nBrig. László Göbölös since 2010\n\n"}
{"id": "3420619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3420619", "title": "Directorial system", "text": "Directorial system\n\nA directorial republic is a country ruled by a college of several people who jointly exercise the powers of a head of state or a head of government.\n\nIn political history, the term directory, in French \"\", is applied to high collegial institutions of state composed of members styled director. The most important of these by far was the Directory of 1795–1799 in France. The system was inspired by the Pennsylvania Constitution of 1776, which prominently featured a collegial 12-member Supreme Executive Council with a \"primus inter pares\" President. Variants of this form of government, based on the French model, were also established in the European regions conquered by France during the French Revolutionary Wars.\n\nIn the past, Uruguay, Yugoslavia (after 1974), Ukraine, and other countries were ruled by directories. The government of the Soviet Union could in some ways be characterized as a directory, but it developed in a much different pattern discussed in the article on Communist states.\n\nThe sole country now using this form of government is Switzerland (and to a lesser extent, San Marino), where directories rule all levels of administration, federal, cantonal and municipal. The Swiss Federal Council is elected by the Parliament for four years (its members cannot be dismissed), and is composed of seven members, among whom one is President and one is Vice-President, although these are completely symbolic. There is no relationship of confidence between Parliament and the Federal Council. It is a shared system of government that reflects and represents the heterogeneity and multiethnicity of the Swiss people. Direct popular elections are used at the local level.\n\nA Directorial System is a system of government in which the executive power is split among a select number of individuals who are, or \"de facto\" are, equals. Some have argued that diarchies such as Andorra are directorial as executive power is held between more than one person. Israel's Parliamentary System, a codified, streamlined variant of the Westminster System under which executive power is vested directly in the Multi-person Cabinet, as opposed to the President acting on the advice of the Cabinet in a normal Westminster System, can be seen as semi-directorial.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56306721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56306721", "title": "Electronic seal", "text": "Electronic seal\n\nAn electronic seal is a piece of data attached to an electronic document or other data, which ensures data origin and integrity. \nThe term is used in the EU Regulation No 910/2014 (eIDAS Regulation) for electronic transactions within the internal European market.\n\nTechnically similar to digital signatures, electronic seals serve as evidence that an electronic document was issued by a specific legal entity. For this purpose, electronic seal must be linked to the data sealed with it in such a way that any subsequent change in the data is detectable and also in such a way that a fake seal cannot be created without access to the data (usually a private key) used for creation of the digital seal. This is usually achieved through use of a qualified digital certificate that is involved in creation of a digital seal. The unique private key used in the creation of the digital seal ensures non-repudiation: the entity that created the digital seal cannot later deny that it created the seal for that document. If the document is modified after its digital seal was created, the digital seal is not valid for the modified document. This can be checked by anyone with access of the public key corresponding to the private key used in the creation of the digital seal, ensuring the integrity of the sealed document.\n\nBesides authenticating the document issued by the legal entity, e-Seals can also be used to authenticate any digital asset of the legal person, such as software code or servers. The important difference between a digital signature and an electronic seal is that the latter is usually created by a legal person while digital signatures are created by a natural person. For the creation of a digital signature, action of the person signing a document or data is required. In contrast, the creation of the digital seals can be automatised and incorporated in processes executed automatically in a digital environment.\n\nA qualified electronic seal is an electronic seal that is compliant to EU Regulation No 910/2014 (eIDAS Regulation) for electronic transactions within the internal European market. It enables to verify the issuer of a document over long periods of time. Qualified electronic seals can be considered as digital equivalent to seals of legal entities on paper. According to the eIDAS regulation, a qualified electronic seal must be created by a qualified electronic device and based on a qualified certificate for electronic seal.\n"}
{"id": "37408846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37408846", "title": "European Medal of Tolerance", "text": "European Medal of Tolerance\n\nThe European Medal of Tolerance is a medal established by the European Council on Tolerance and Reconciliation (ECTR) in 2008.\n\nThe purpose of the prize is to honour and reward extraordinary creative achievements in the promotion of tolerance. The ultimate aim is to draw attention to successful undertakings that can serve as models in the field of tolerance and peace-building. The prize thus recognizes effectiveness as well as vision; impact assessment is a part of the decision process.\n\nThis prize is dedicated to effective implementation of the Principles of Tolerance in public and private spheres, in particular in the policy making process, legislative action on the national and regional level and law enforcement activities as well as in the arts, education, culture, science and communication.\n\nThe prize is to be awarded to persons, groups of persons, non-governmental, governmental and intergovernmental organizations and institutions for exceptional contributions to and leadership in, the promotion of tolerance on the European continent and to the fight against intolerance such as xenophobia, anti-Semitism, aggressive nationalism, political extremism and racially motivated hate crime.\n\nThe prize may be awarded to the families of outstanding individuals who have lost their lives in the struggle against intolerance.\n\nThe prize is a gold 'European Medal of Tolerance' presented to the recipient as a concrete and lasting token of the award.\n\nThe first Medal of Tolerance was awarded on November 11, 2008 in the context of the Week of Tolerance in Europe international public initiative.\n\n“We need to unite our efforts to fight any manifestation of extreme nationalism, discrimination, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and racism throughout Europe,” said European Parliament President Martin Schulz. “Still today, in parts of Europe, we see the demons of the past raise their ugly heads. This is warning to all of us. As Edmund Burke said ‘All that’s necessary for the forces of evil to win in the world is for enough good men to do nothing.’\"\n\n\"We aim to send a strong message that despite the current difficulties in Europe, a strong and brave leadership can solve problems peacefully,\" said ECTR Co-Chairman Viatcheslav Kantor. \n\nThe First European Medal of Tolerance was conferred on October 11, 2010 on the King of Spain Juan Carlos I for his lifelong dedication and devotion to the issue of tolerance and political reconciliation. The second and the third European Medals of Tolerance were conferred on President of Croatia Ivo Josipovic and Ex-President of Serbia Boris Tadic at the European Parliament in Brussels by European Council on Tolerance and Reconciliation Chairman Alexander Kwasniewski and ECTR Co-Chairman Viatcheslav Kantor, in recognition of the Balkan statesmens’ “significant contribution to promoting, seeking, safeguarding or maintaining tolerance on the European continent”.\n\nIn 2015 Samuel Eto'o, a famous football-player, was awarded for his fight against racism in football.\n\nThe European Medal of Tolerance for the 2016 was conferred on film director Andrey Konchalovsky \"for his cultural achievements focused on preserving the tragic memory of the past including his film \"Paradise\".\n\nThe European Medal of Tolerance for the 2017 was awarded to Prince of Monaco Albert II for his exceptional personal leadership and inspiration to advance truth, tolerance and historical reconciliation.\n"}
{"id": "6429167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6429167", "title": "Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development", "text": "Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development\n\nThe Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is a ministry of the Nigerian government that regulates agricultural research, agriculture and natural resources, forestry and veterinary research throughout Nigeria.\nAudu Innocent Ogbeh is the current Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. He was appointed to head the ministry by president Muhammadu Buhari in November 2015.\n\nAkinwumi Adesina was appointed Federal Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development by President Goodluck Jonathan in June 2011. The ministry was previously headed by Adamu Bello, Abba Sayyadi Ruma and Sheikh Ahmed Abdullah. \n\nIn April 2010 when Goodluck Jonathan appointed Sheikh Ahmed Abdullah the Ministry of Water Resources became separate from the Ministry of Agriculture.\n\nIbukun Odusote is the permanent secretary for the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.\n\nThe ministry is responsible for various parastatals. It supervises and provides funding for research institutes such as the National Root Crops Research Institute and colleges of agriculture and forestry.\n\n"}
{"id": "1192801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1192801", "title": "Fire-Eaters", "text": "Fire-Eaters\n\nIn American history, the Fire-Eaters were a group of pro-slavery Southerners in the Antebellum South who urged the separation of Southern states into a new nation, which became the Confederate States of America. The dean of the group was Robert Barnwell Rhett of South Carolina. Some sought to reopen the international slave trade, which had been illegal since 1808.\n\nBy radically urging secession in the South, the Fire-Eaters demonstrated the high level of sectionalism existing in the U.S. during the 1850s, and they materially contributed to the outbreak of the Civil War (1861–1865). As early as 1850, there was a Southern minority of pro-slavery extremists who did much to weaken the fragile unity of the nation. Led by such men as Edmund Ruffin, Robert Rhett, Louis T. Wigfall, and William Lowndes Yancey, this group was dubbed \"Fire-Eaters\" by northerners. At an 1850 convention in Nashville, Tennessee, the Fire-Eaters urged Southern secession, citing irrevocable differences between the North and the South, and they inflamed passions by using propaganda against the North. However, the Compromise of 1850 and other moderate counsel kept the Fire-Eaters cool for a time.\n\nIn the later half of the 1850s, the group reemerged. During the election of 1856, Fire-Eaters used threats of secession in order to persuade Northerners, valuing unity over anti-slavery, to vote for James Buchanan. They used several recent events for propaganda, among them \"Bleeding Kansas\" and the Sumner-Brooks Affair, to accuse the North of trying to abolish slavery immediately. Using effective propaganda against 1860 presidential candidate Abraham Lincoln, the nominee of the anti-slavery Republican Party, the Fire-Eaters were able to convince many southerners of this. However, Lincoln, despite abolitionist sentiment within the party, had promised not to abolish slavery in the Southern states, but only to forbid it in the territories. They first targeted South Carolina, which passed an article of secession in December 1860. Wigfall, for one, actively encouraged an attack on Fort Sumter to prompt Virginia and other upper Southern States to secede as well. The Fire-Eaters helped to unleash a chain reaction that eventually led to the formation of the Confederate States of America and to the American Civil War. Their influence waned quickly after the start of major fighting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47122555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47122555", "title": "Governor (Russia)", "text": "Governor (Russia)\n\nThe highest official of the subject of the Russian Federation or the holder of the highest office of subject of the Russian Federation () or the head of the highest executive body of state power of the subject of the Russian Federation (), colloquially and collectively referred to as the title governor ( - \"gubernator\") or head of region ( - \"glava regiona\"), is the head and the chief executive of each the federal subjects of Russia, not directly subordinate to the federal authorities, but the political and ceremonial head of the federal subject, all of which are equal constituent entities of Russia.\n\nThe office is defined by the Constitution of Russia and Chapters 1, 3 and 4 of Russia's Federal Law No. 184-FZ \"On the General Principles of the Organization Of the Legislative (Representative) and Executive Organs Of State Power of the Subjects of the Russian Federation\" which came into force in 1999. According to the current revision of the Russian Constitution, the Russian Federation consists of 85 federal subjects therefore there are 85 offices of head of region in Russia (see List of current heads of federal subjects of Russia).\n\nThe certain title of office is defined by the federal subject's Constitution or Charter. The names include: governor, president ( - \"president\"), head of administration ( - \"glava administratsii\"), head of republic ( - \"glava respubliki\"), mayor ( - \"mer\"), non-officially and collectively referred to as governors for short. The official title governor is most used in Russia and traditionally it is used in Oblasts of Russia. Presidents of Russia's republics, mayor of Moscow and mayor of St. Petersburg are also governors in this sense.\n\nA head of the subject in Russia is said to serve a \"administration\" or \"executive office\", colloquially referred to as \"gubernatorial administration\".\n\nThe Constitution preserves the notion that the country is a federation of semi-sovereign federal subjects and that powers not specifically granted to the federal government are retained by the federal subjects. Federal subjects, therefore, are not administrative divisions. Regional governments in Russia are relatively powerful; each federal subject has its own independent criminal and civil law codes, as well as manages its internal government.\n\nThe governor thus heads the executive branch in the federal subjects and, depending on the individual jurisdiction, may have considerable control over government budgeting, the power of appointment of many officials (including many judges), and a considerable role in legislation. The governor may also have additional roles, and in many territories the governor has partial or absolute power to commute or pardon a criminal sentence. All governors serve five-year terms for no more than two terms in row.\n\nIn all federal subjects, the governor is directly elected, and in most cases has considerable practical powers, though this may be moderated by the legislature and in some cases by other elected executive officials.\n\nA governor may give an annual address about his achievements in order to satisfy a constitutional stipulation that a governor must report annually (or in older constitutions described as being \"from time to time\") on the territory or condition of the republic/oblast. Governors of oblasts may also perform ceremonial roles, such as greeting dignitaries, conferring state decorations, issuing symbolic proclamations. The governor may also have an official residence.\n\nIn modern Russia, the governor - is the highest official figure in the Russian Federation (territory, region, autonomous region, city), heads the executive branch in the Republics and oblasts of the Russian Federation.\n\nOn November 30, 1991, Presidential decree of Yeltsin, appointed Boris Nemtsov to the post of governor of the Nizhny Novgorod region in and the first week of work at the new location, Nemtsov then issued a decree according to which he, the head of the regional government is to officially called the governor. Thus, he became the first governor of the new Russia.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2005, governors were elected by the residents of the Russian Federation in the framework of direct, equal and secret ballot. From 2005 to 2012, governors were appointed by the legislative (representative) bodies of subjects of the Russian Federation by the recommendation of the President of Russia.\n\nOn June 1, 2012, an Act came into force, which returns the direct election of senior officials in the regions. In 2015, governors were restricted to a term of five years, with no more than two consecutive terms.\n\nAs of October 2017 there are 77 members of United Russia, two Communists, one Liberal Democrat, one member of A Just Russia, and four independents serving as governors.\n\nFor each term, governors serve five years in office.\n\nThe longest-serving current governor is Aman Tuleyev of Kemerovo Oblast, who has served six consecutive terms since 1 July 1997.\n\nThe first female governor was Valentina Matviyenko who was Governor of Saint Petersburg from 2003 to 2011.\n\nThere are currently 82 male state governors and three female governors: Natalya Komarova of Khanty–Mansi Autonomous Okrug, Marina Kovtun of Murmansk Oblast, and Vera Shcherbina is acting Governor of Sakhalin Oblast.\n\n"}
{"id": "1367987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1367987", "title": "Harry and Louise", "text": "Harry and Louise\n\n\"Harry and Louise\" was a $14 to $20 million year-long television advertising campaign funded by the Health Insurance Association of America (HIAA)—a predecessor of the current America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP)—a health insurance industry lobby group, that ran intermittently from September 8, 1993 to September 1994 in opposition to President Bill Clinton's proposed health care plan in 1993–1994 and Congressional health care reform proposals in 1994. Fourteen television ads and radio and print advertising depicted a fictional suburban forty-something middle-class married couple, portrayed by actors Harry Johnson and Louise Caire Clark, despairing over bureaucratic and other aspects of health care reform plans and urged viewers to contact their representatives in Congress. The commercials were ordered by HIAA president Bill Gradison and HIAA executive vice president Chip Kahn, and created by California public relations consultants Ben Goddard and Rick Claussen of Goddard Claussen.\n\nThe couple returned in several newer advertisements pushing health care reform during the 2000 and 2004 presidential campaigns. In 2000, Harry and Louise appeared in a TV commercial sponsored by HIAA promoting its \"InsureUSA\" campaign advocating the need to provide health coverage to uninsured Americans.\n\nLater, they returned in an unrelated 2002 ad, produced by Goddard Claussen Porter Novelli (Goddard Claussen was purchased by Porter Novelli in 1999), advocating human cloning for therapeutic purposes on behalf of CuresNow.org. The second ad was the subject of a lawsuit by the HIAA who claimed that they owned the characters; however, a court ruled that the rights to the characters were held by Goddard Claussen, and it aired during a showing of \"The West Wing\" on NBC. This ad was one of several prominent political attack ads parodied in the 78th Academy Awards (March 2006). An older couple sitting at the kitchen table bemoans the \"foreign-sounding names\" of the best actress nominees, then praises Reese Witherspoon for having an all-American name.\n\nHarry and Louise appeared again in an ad that premiered on August 25, 2008, during the 2008 Democratic National Convention, urging that health care reform be made a top priority. The ad aired again during the Republican National Convention. The 2008 ad was sponsored by several organizations that have, in the past, advocated diverse views on health care, including The American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, the American Hospital Association, the Catholic Health Association, Families USA, and the National Federation of Independent Business.\n\nIn July 2009, the couple appeared in a new television advertisement in support of the health-care plan promoted by President Barack Obama. The ad was sponsored by a pharmaceutical industry trade group and Families USA.\n\n"}
{"id": "22054022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22054022", "title": "It takes two to tango", "text": "It takes two to tango\n\nIt takes two to tango is a common idiomatic expression which suggests something in which more than one person or other entity are paired in an inextricably-related and active manner, occasionally with negative connotations.\nThe tango is a dance which requires two partners moving in relation to each other, sometimes in tandem, sometimes in opposition. The meaning of this expression has been extended to include any situation in which the two partners are by definition understood to be essential—as in, a marriage with only one partner ceases to be a marriage.\n\nThe phrase originated in a song, \"Takes Two to Tango\", which was written and composed in 1952 by Al Hoffman and Dick Manning. The lyrics and melody were popularized by singer Pearl Bailey's 1952 recording.\n\nThe phrase was reported widely in the international media when Ronald Reagan quipped about Russian-American relations during a 1982 presidential news conference. Reagan stated: \"For ten years détente was based on words by them [the Russians] and not any words to back them up. And we need some action that they — it takes two to tango — that they want to tango also.\" \nSince that time, the tango metaphor has appeared regularly in the headline of the international press. The phrase has gained currency as a proverb in loan translation in other languages.\n\nThis expression has become a familiar proverbial expression; and it has also found its way into American legal writing, as in:\nMore generally in instances involving a dubious transaction, like a bribe, conventional wisdom in America and in the United Kingdom presumes that if one is guilty, both are.\n\nThe phrase is incorporated in the lyrics of the song \"Takes Two to Tango\", written by Al Hoffman and Dick Manning about romance, but the open-ended possibilities of the idomatic expression are available for a wider range of prospective applications. One stanza of the song explains:\n\nIn 1972, American multi-instrumentalist, singer-songwriter, and record producer Todd Rundgren released his double album \"Something/Anything?\", which includes \"It Takes Two to Tango (This is for the Girls)\", a song composed, arranged and performed by him.\n\nComedian George Carlin observed: \"It takes two to tango. Sounds good, but simple reasoning will reveal that it only takes one to tango. It takes two to tango together, maybe, but one person is certainly capable of tangoing on his own.\" The phrase may be used for situations in which one person is being blamed, but two are actually at fault.\n\n\"It takes two to tango\" may be used to mean that some things need the active cooperation of two parties in some enterprise—for example, as in the following comment:\n\"It takes two to tango\" may be used to mean \"an agreement or a consensual bargain requires the assent of both parties for the deal to be deemed successful -- for example, as in the following exchange:\n\n\"It takes two to tango\" may be used to mean \"a quarrel requires two disputing parties,\" is an expression which is often used in situations in which both partners in the dispute should or could be said to share responsibility—for example, as in the following observation:\n\nThis line was used by Adam Sandler in the film Billy Madison, in a misrepresentation of the common idiom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40989722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40989722", "title": "Javanisation", "text": "Javanisation\n\nJavanisation () is the process in which Javanese culture dominates, assimilates, or influences other cultures in general. The term \"Javanise\" means \"to make or to become Javanese in form, idiom, style, or character.\" This domination could take place in various aspects; such as cultural, language, politics and social.\n\nIn its modern sense within Indonesian social, cultural and politics perspective; Javanisation simply means the spreading of rural Javanese population of densely populated Java to less populated parts of the archipelago. While to others it could also mean the conscious or unconscious imposition of Javanese patterns of thought and behaviour throughout Indonesia, in the sense of cultural imperialism. In previous sense it is more focused on thinking and practice of those in power.\n\nThe term \"Javanise\" however, is not only to describe outward process, but also inward; it is also used to describes the adoption and assimilation of foreign social-cultural influences and elements into Javanese culture. These foreign influences are somehow are interpreted and adopted to suit Javanese frame of reference, style, needs and social-cultural conditions. The adoption of Indian Hindu epics and cultural elements in 5th to 15th-century Java and the adoption of Islam introduced by Wali Songo into Javanese culture in 15th-century are the notable examples.\n\nThe promotion and expansion of Javanese cultural elements, such as Javanese language, architecture, cuisine, batik, wayang, gamelan and kris are also can be seen as the manifestation of Javanisation process. The Javanese migration to settle in places out of their traditional homeland in Central and East Java to other places in Indonesia (Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, Papua, etc.), Malay peninsula (esp. Johor), to Suriname, is also a contributing factor of Javanisation process.\n\nThis Javanese cultural hegemony or domination could take form in various aspects. Such as physical through the expansions and settlements of Javanese diaspora outside their traditional homeland in Java. In spiritual and behavioural aspects, the Javanisation process includes the promotion of Javanese culture and values; such as obsession with elegance and refinements (Javanese: \"alus\"), subtleness, politeness, courtesy, indirectness, emotional restraint and consciousness to one's social stature. Javanese values harmony and social order highly, and abhorred direct conflicts and disagreements. These Javanese values were often promoted through Javanese cultural expressions, such as Javanese dance, gamelan, wayang and batik as national culture of Indonesia. It also being reinforced through adherence to Javanese \"adat\" (traditional rules) in ceremonies, such as Slametan, Satu Suro, Javanese wedding and Naloni Mitoni.\n\nIn the language aspect, such as the using of Javanese terms, idioms, and vocabularies outside of traditional Javanese language realm. For example, today it is commons for Indonesians to use Javanese terms to address people across Indonesia, such as \"Mas\" (to address the same of age or slightly older male) or \"Mbak\" (for female counterparts). It is common in national capital Jakarta; however, this phenomenon has somewhat alarmed the Malay- and Minangkabau-speaking realms in Sumatra that considered it as a form of Javanisation and cultural imperialism.\n\nIn social and politics, the examples of perceived Javanisation such as numbers of Indonesian Presidents are always Javanese (with exception of B. J. Habibie). Also the alleged Javanese political dominance in government administrations, civil service, military and police, as well as Javanese traits in Indonesian political culture.\n\nThe island of Java has been a centre stage of Indonesian history for centuries, and Javanese people as the largest ethnic groups in Indonesia has been dominating the politics and social landscapes in the past as well as modern Indonesia.\n\nIn its early stages, Javanese culture was heavily influenced by Indian Hindu-Buddhist civilisation. The example of this process is the adoptions of large numbers of sanskrit loanwords into old Javanese, and the Javanisation of Indian Hindu epics such as Ramayana and Mahabharata into Javanese version, and incorporating local deities such as Semar and Punakawan into their Wayang Purwa stories. The process of adopting Hindu influences is describes as the Sanskritisation of Java and the Javanisation of the Bharata. The blossoming of Javanese classical literature for example are the composing of Kakawin Ramayana and Arjunawiwaha.\n\nThe early examples of Javanisation is the expansion of Javanese Sailendran arts — developed in 8th to 9th-century Central Java — that influences the aesthethics of Srivijayan Buddhist arts discovered in Sumatra and Southern Thailand Malay peninsula. Despite absorbing Indian influences from Gupta and Amaravati arts, to Southern India Pallava influences, Javanese Sailendran art in return influenced the art and aesthethic of the Southeast Asian region.\n\nIn early classical period, during Eastern Java Medang kingdom in 10th-century, saw the expansion of Javanese influence to Bali. East Javanese princess Mahendradatta become the queen consort of King Udayana Warmadewa of Bali, signify the Javanese increasing influences upon Bali. During the reign of Airlangga, Bali pretty much become parts of East Javanese Hindu kingdom realm.\n\nThe expansion of Singhasari kingdom in 13th-century during the reign of Kertanegara has strengthen the Javanese influence in the region, especially upon Bali and Melayu Kingdom in Eastern coast of Sumatra, through Pamalayu expedition. In 1200 CE, Mpu Jatmika from Java established the Hindu Kingdom of Negara Dipa by the river of Tapin, this was the start of the Javanese-style courts in South Kalimantan.\n\nFollowed by the expansion of Majapahit empire circa 14th-century, the archipelago saw again the Javanese expansion. It was probably during this period that some of Javanese cultural elements, such as gamelan and kris, being expanded and introduced to islands outside of Java; such as Sumatra, Malay peninsula and Borneo. It was during this era that the town Banjarmasin in South Kalimantan and Sukadana in West Kalimantan has been established as Javanese colony as the vassal of Majapahit. In 1400 CE, Negara Dipa was succeeded by the Hindu Kingdom of Negara Daha. The Javanese influences can be seen on Banjar people art, culture, and costumes that demonstrated Javanese styles.\n\nIt was also during the last period of Majapahit in the 15th century that the native Austronesian elements of pre Hindu-Javanese style are revived, as demonstrated in Sukuh and Cetho temples. The stiffer wayang style figures of statues and bas reliefs, and the stepped pyramid temple structure replaced the classic towering Hindu temples. This reverse of Indianized process is also called the \"Javanisation\" of Hindu-Buddhist prototypes in Javanese art.\n\nAfter the fall of Majapahit, Demak Sultanate replace its hegemony in Southern Sumatra by appointing Javanese regent to rule Palembang. In the early 17th century, the Sultanate of Palembang was established by Ki Gede ing Suro, a Javanese nobleman fleeing the Demak court intrique after the death of Trenggana Sultan of Demak. The Sultanate of Palembang are known as the combination of various cultures; Malay, Javanese, Islamic and Chinese. The Javanisation process of Palembang Sultanate court is evident in the adoption of Javanese words and vocabularies into local Malay Palembang dialect, such as \"wong\" (people) and \"banyu\" (water).\n\nDuring the ambitious Sultan Agung's reign of Mataram Sultanate in the first half of the 17th century, Javanese culture again expanded, much of Western and East Java region are being Javanised. Mataram's campaign on Eastern Javanese principalities such as Surabaya and Pasuruan expanded Mataraman influences on Java. Mataram expansion includes Sundanese principalities of Priangan highlands; from Galuh Ciamis, Sumedang, Bandung and Cianjur. It was during this period that Sundanese people were exposed and assimilated further into Javanese \"Kejawen\" culture. Wayang Golek are Sundanese taking on Javanese Wayang Kulit culture, similar shared culture such as gamelan and batik also flourished. It is probably during this times that Sundanese language began to adopt the stratified degree of term and vocabulary to denote politeness, as reflected in Javanese language. In addition, Javanese scripts also used to write Sundanese as \"cacarakan\".\n\nForeign influences and ideas such as religions and beliefs are sometimes consciously and deliberately undergone changes and adaptations, being \"Javanised\" to be accepted by popular Javanese audiences. The examples such as the process that took place in the 15th century dubbed as \"the Islamisation of Java and the Javanisation of Islam.\" The Wali Songos such as Sunan Kalijaga are known to use Javanese cultural expressions such as gamelan and wayang to promote and spread Islamic faith. Wayang sadat is a variant of wayang that used to in tabligh and da'wah to spread Islamic messages. Another example Javanisation of Islam in Java is the construction of pyramidal multi-tiered roof of Javanese mosque. Javanese mosque did not applied dome, minaret, brick or stone masonry, but instead adopted wood carpentry of pendopo and meru-like roofs derived from previous pre-Islamic art and architecture of Java. The example of this kinds of mosque are Demak Great Mosque and Yogyakarta Grand Mosque.\n\nCatholics faith for examples are also using Javanese vocabularies and frame of reference by using the term \"Romo\" (Javanese: \"father\") for \"father\" to refer to Catholic priest. Catholic proselytising efforts also used traditional wayang art to spread their message; the wayang wahyu used to perform the biblical story and Christianity. In architecture, Catholicism also adopted Javanese style and architecture for their church, such as the Ganjuran Church in Bantul, Yogyakarta, that constructed the shrine of Jesus in ancient Javanese candi architecture. Another example includes Pohsarang Church in Kediri that built in traditional Javanese architecture.\n\nDuring colonial Dutch East Indies period, numbers of Javanese are migrated to Suriname as plantation workers. Within the archipelago, Javanese are also migrate to several places such as Sumatra, Kalimantan and Johor in Malay peninsula. Regions such as northern West Java, Lampung and South Kalimantan are known to have large numbers of Javanese settlers.\n\nAfter the Indonesian revolution (1945-1949) and the independence of Indonesia, many of Indonesian national symbols are derived from its Majapahit legacy, an empire that centred in Java in 14th to 15th century. Indonesian flag displayed Majapahit colours, the national motto Bhinneka Tunggal Ika and the state ideology Pancasila also demonstrates its Majapahit legacy. Indonesian founding fathers, especially Sukarno did dig into Indonesian past of indigenous wisdom and philosophy to formulate the new nationhood of Indonesia. Naturally Javanese culture as one of the most influential major element in Indonesian culture contributed its share of influences.\n\nDuring Suharto's New Order regime (1966-1998), the political culture of Indonesia is somewhat perceived as being Javanised. The administration levels were also arranged in Javanese styles and idioms, such as \"Kabupaten\" and \"desa\", the terms that originally not familiar in some of Indonesian provinces, such as West Sumatra and West Papua. In this post-independence Indonesia sense, the term \"Javanisation\" is used to describe the process whereby ethnic Javanese and Javanised individuals gradually became the overwhelming and disproportionate majority of the governing elite in the Indonesian post-independence era.\n\nThe issue of Javanisation has been a sensitive and critical issues in Indonesian national building and national unity. The Javanese domination is regarded not only on the realm of culture, but also social, politics and economy. The Suharto's New Order regime is criticised as has Javanised Indonesian politics during decades of his rules. In politics, administration, authority and civil service perspective, this Javanisation is sometimes perceived negatively as it contains the worst elements of Javanese culture, such as rigidity of social hierarchy, authoritarianism and arbitrariness. A development that sometimes called as \"Mataramisation\" and \"feudalisation\", accompanied by fondness of status display and arrogance. A typical negative description of priyayi behaving like the member of Javanese upper class.\n\nThe Transmigration program that relocate people from densely populated Java to other Indonesian islands, such as Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and Indonesian New Guinea, is also criticised has accelerated and promoted the Javanisation process of Indonesia. The issue also fuels with development disparity issues, where other islands are dissatisfied with the development and social welfare in their region, in contrast with infrastructure development and wealth distribution that seems to be in favour and focused on Java.\n\nHowever today in the era of local autonomy, it is not relevant to connect the transmigration program to Javanisation issues, because the migration process is also conducted internally within Java, or within certain provinces. For example, in Eastern Indonesia such as in Maluku and Papua, the majority of the non-native settlers are from Sulawesi (Bugis-Makassar and Buton) and Maluku itself, and not from Java. The transmigration should carefully examine economic potential, as well as social and cultural impact of the area. It is also based on the fact that the provinces which open themselves to pluralism and accept inter-province settlers and migrations are usually developing more rapidly compared to those that isolate themselves. It is also important to note, that Java itself has attracted \"perantau\" (migrant settlers) and workers from all over the Indonesian archipelago, and subsequently the demographics of Java is not homogenous.\n\n"}
{"id": "41604700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41604700", "title": "Ken Block (politician)", "text": "Ken Block (politician)\n\nKenneth J. \"Ken\" Block (born October 11, 1965) is an American businessman, software engineer, and political reformer. He is the founder of the Moderate Party of Rhode Island, the state's third-largest political party, and ran as the Moderate candidate for Governor of Rhode Island in the 2010 election.\n\nWhile leader of the Moderate Party, Block was an advocate for economic, educational, and political reforms in Rhode Island. His court battle to gain official state recognition for the Moderates in 2009 overturned several unconstitutional laws and made it easier for third parties to gain signatures and access election ballots. In a highly contested four-way election, Block received 6.5% of the vote in the Governor's Race.\n\nBlock emerged as one of the most outspoken critics of the Rhode Island General Assembly in the aftermath of the 2010 elections. He publicly opposed the controversial $75 million loan and subsequent taxpayer bailout of 38 Studios, the taxpayer-funded redevelopment the Superman Building, and introduction of the Sakonnet River Bridge toll. Block has also called for the elimination of the \"master lever\" from election ballots which he argues creates voter disenfranchisement and unfairly benefits larger political parties. He eventually created MasterLever.org to explain his position and enable the public to contact state officials via e-mail.\n\nAs a small business owner, Block has run several software companies which have worked with state governments to identify fraud and government waste in social service and welfare programs. In 1995, Block was able to save the state of Texas over $1 billion by developing a new statewide debit card system. Shortly after the 2010 election, Block offered his company's help free of charge to find waste and fraud in Rhode Island's entitlement programs. He was subsequently involved in the state's Medicare waste and fraud report as well as assisting the Providence Police Department's fraud unit to better access state records in late 2012. Police investigators have claimed that the new computer software will help detect millions of dollars in fraud.\n\nHe also served as president of RI Taxpayers, a taxpayer advocacy and watchdog group, until his resignation in May 2013 when he announced his candidacy for governor in the 2014 election. In October 2013, Block announced that he had joined the Rhode Island Republican Party and intended to challenge Cranston Mayor Allan Fung in the upcoming Republican primary. He based his campaign on a plan to save Rhode Island taxpayers $1 billion by eliminating wasteful spending.\n\nKenneth J. Block was born and raised in Milford, Connecticut. The oldest of three children, Block's family lived in the same house as his grandparents. He graduated from Milford High School in 1983 and then attended Dartmouth College where he earned a bachelor’s degree in computer science four years later. Block began his career writing software for Wall Street trading desks during the late 1980s. He was employed by the Bank of New England and worked at small software consultancy firms Dalcomp Corporation and LOBB Systems. In 1991, Block moved to Rhode Island to work for the Providence-based GTECH Corporation. Although initially a one-year consultancy, he stayed with the company for another six years. From 1995 to 1999, Block was president of Kinetic Consulting, Inc., a software consultation firm that worked with state agencies to identify government waste and abuse as well as improving the overall efficiency of their spending programs, until the dot-com bust forced him to close the company.\n\nIn 2001, Block founded Simpatico Software Systems, a data mining service used by government agencies and private businesses to track waste and fraud. Additionally, it supplies software services to the SNAP program. Similar to his first company, Simpatico Systems also provided engineering and consulting services. Its clients have included the EVERTEC and GTECH Corporations, Northrop Grumman, and the state government of Texas. In Texas, Block's company developed a statewide debit card system for food stamp and welfare recipients that saved the state more than $1 billion. Two years later he created a second company, Cross Alert Systems, which manufactures \"intelligent\" traffic systems for recreational trail and public road intersections.\n\nIn 2007, Block decided to enter the Rhode Island political scene. In later interviews, Block said that he entered politics out of frustration with the state government's inability to solve Rhode Island's declining economy and education system. He was particularly concerned that his children were not getting a quality education in public schools and, like many young Rhode Islanders, would eventually have to leave the state due to high unemployment rate. He also noted the difficulty for small business owners to operate in the state and that the high tax rate forced many companies to relocate to Massachusetts and elsewhere. As a longtime business owner himself, Block believed many of these problems could easily be fixed though basic fiscal responsibility and \"common sense\" leadership.\n\nDisillusioned with both the Democratic and Republican parties, who he felt were more concerned battling over social issues, Block believed that starting a centrist-based third-party would be the best option. His political affiliation is unknown before 2007, however, Block has stated his admiration for former RI Governor Bruce Sundlun. A Brown University political poll reported that 74% of Rhode Islanders were dissatisfied with the state's political leadership and \"would be supportive of a new moderate political party\". A poll run by Block produced similar numbers. He reasoned that if his party could attract enough moderate voters, they would be able to put pressure on then Republican Governor Donald L. Carcieri and the Democrat-controlled General Assembly to address vital issues being neglected by the state.\n\nThe Moderate Party of Rhode Island was founded by Block a year later. An official website was launched in early-2008 and several candidates were endorsed in the general election - Jean Ann Guiliano (D), John Pagliarini (R), Matt McHugh (I), and Christopher Little (I). On October 23, 2008, Block co-hosted Operation Clean Government's \"State of the State\" with former RI attorney general Arlene Violet interviewing all four candidates. Gaining official recognition by the state was \"a fight and a half\" according to Block. In February 2009, Block and American Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit against the state to gain official party status. U.S. District Judge William Smith, striking down several ballot access laws as unconstitutional, ruled in the Moderate Party's favor three months later. The Moderate Party were able to collect over 34,000 signatures, the 12th highest number of signatures in the country, to qualify as a political party and were placed on the 2010 ballot. Afterwards, Block said that Rhode Island was the most difficult state to start a political party. The Moderate Party would find support from a number of prominent figures including former Hasbro CEO Alan G. Hassenfeld, Arlene Violet, and former U.S. Attorney Robert Clark Corrente, the latter briefly serving as party chairman.\n\nBlock was the Moderate Party's candidate for Governor during the 2010 election. He had not intended to run for office, however, Block reluctantly stepped in failing to find a suitable candidate in time. Block had developed an interest in civics and government while at Dartmouth College in the 1980s though he had no political experience prior to the campaign. He was successful in gaining the necessary signatures 1,000 registered voters to get on the ballot. His door-to-door campaigning in South Kingstown was included in a feature story for \"Rhode Island Monthly\". Block was one of the candidates profiled on Fox Providence's \"The Rhode Show\" for its \"Coffee with the Candidates\" segment.\n\nBlock finished fourth in the statewide general election with 22,146 votes garnering 6.5% of the vote. He followed Democrat Frank Caprio with 78,896 votes (23%), Republican John Robitaille with 114,911 votes (33.6%), and the winner Independent Lincoln Chafee with 123,571 votes (36.1%). Though an impressive performance for a first-time candidate Block was blamed for his part in the four-way race that allowed Chafee to win the election. The Republican Party of Rhode Island was particularly critical of Block for splitting the race as their candidate, John Robitaille, lost to Chafee by less than 4% of the vote.\n\nBlock continued his political activism as leader of the Moderate Party stressing the need for economic, educational, and governmental reforms. He made several guest appearances on Rhode Island PBS's public affairs television program \"A Lively Experiment\" and Operation Clean Government's \"State of the State\". He began a movement to abolish the \"master lever\" and worked with the state to uncover fraud and waste in the state's welfare programs going so far as to offering his company's services to Governor Chafee at no charge. In January 2013, Block began teaching a technology and business class as an adjunct professor at the University of Rhode Island.\n\nAn outspoken critic of the Rhode Island General Assembly, he challenged a number of controversial decisions made by the legislative body. While running for Governor, Block criticized the state's $75 million loan to 38 Studios, in exchange for the video game company moving its headquarters from Maynard, Massachusetts to Providence, Rhode Island, suggesting that the money would be better spent investing in local businesses. He was also strongly opposed to taxpayer-funded redevelopment of the Superman Building and the introduction of the Sakonnet River Bridge toll. Block called this most recent legislation by the assembly an \"awful decision\" and condemned the Rhode Island Democratic Party as \"[proving] itself completely incapable of governing the state.\"\n\nShortly after the 2010 election, Democratic State Representative Lisa Baldelli Hunt urged Governor Lincoln Chafee to contact Block about working with state agencies to uncover fraud in Rhode Island's Medicaid programs. In April 2011, Block volunteered his company's services free of charge to help the state identify waste and fraud in Health and Human Services spending. He was not able to testify in person before the House and Senate Finance Committee that month, however, a written statement was submitted into the record. Two months later, Block talked with both the Department of Human Services and the Department of Labor and Training about using his company's services free of charge. After several months negotiating with the Chafee administration, Block announced on WPRO's \"The John DePetro Show\" that his company was close to reaching an agreement to start working with state agencies to investigate waste and abuse in Rhode Island's welfare system.\n\nBlock's company, Simpatico Software Systems, began working with the Providence Police Department's fraud unit in late 2012. Simpatico Systems developed a computer program so that fraud investigators can more easily access state records. The unit's two investigators, Jack Costa and Daniel Murphy, had previously been dependent on more than a dozen other agencies throughout the state and records were often unavailable in the current system. The Simpatico system specifically assisted the Providence Housing Authority in sharing data with the state government. Their efforts were featured on the November 6th edition of WPRI's \"Eyewitness News\". It was claimed that the new computer software would help investigators detect millions of dollars in fraud. He was later involved in the Rhode Island Health and Human Services Waste and Fraud Report which submitted its preliminary findings in early 2013.\n\nAnother reform pushed by Block was the elimination of straight-ticket or \"master lever\" voting, which allows voters to cast a ballot for all candidates of a single political party with one vote, arguing that it confuses and disenfranchises voters. The master lever was first introduced to Rhode Island in 1939 when voting machines required voters to physically pull multiple levers to cast a vote. These machines were eventually replaced with a modern electronic system in the late 1990s, however, the laws remained in place. Block was among those who testified before the Rhode Island Senate in a judiciary hearing on the elimination of the master lever in March 2012.\n\nA later study conducted by the Moderate Party, which examined ballots from the 2010 election in Burrillville, Rhode Island, indicated that voters did not understand how to use the master lever. Voters that chose to vote for all Democratic candidates would often cancel out their votes when continuing to cast individual votes further down in the ballot. Block cited the Moderate Party's campaign in the November 2012 election as an example with, he said, over 9,000 Rhode Island voters using the Moderate Party master lever mechanism despite not having a Moderate candidate on the ballot. Politifact judged this claim as 'mostly true\" saying that there were slightly \"under\" 9,000 such votes.\n\nAnother issue caused by the master lever, critics argue, is \"under voting\" at the local level, where many offices are officially non-partisan, with candidates being skipped on the ballot because they do not belong to a political party. The master lever also created an unfair advantage for majority political parties at the expense of minority and third parties. Both Allan Fung and Scott Avedisian, Republican mayors of Cranston and Warwick respectively, agreed with this view; a ballot recount by Fung in his 2006 election revealed serious irregularities in votes cast by the master lever. In U.S. presidential elections, many voters unknowingly elect candidates simply by voting for a presidential nominee. An estimated 46,000 voters used the master lever during the 2010 gubernatorial elections, a number which doubled during the 2012 U.S. presidential election, giving local Democrats a huge advantage over non-Democratic candidates.\n\nIn January 2013, Block launched MasterLever.org to inform the public about the problems using the obsolete voting system in local and state elections. The website allowed supporters to send an automated letter to state officials including House Speaker Gordon Fox, Senate President M. Teresa Paiva-Weed, and Governor Lincoln Chafee. Within a week of its launch, 500 people had sent letters via the website in support the banning the master lever. That number rose to 2,600 within four months. Although the majority of the General Assembly remained silent on the issue, Block's initiative eventually gained support from key political figures including Democratic Secretary of State Ralph Mollis and Governor Chafee. Block polled legislators at the State House for their stance on the master lever which he then made available on the website. A ban on the master lever was also supported by RI-based government watchdog groups Common Cause, Operation Clean Government, and the Rhode Island Statewide Coalition.\n\nBlock made a second appearance on the April 5th edition of \"A Lively Experiment\" where he talked about his views on the master lever, payday loans, and state tax credits. Block's report on waste and fraud in Rhode Island's state social service programs was also a topic of discussion on the show.\n\nOn February 4, 2013, Block succeeded Harriet Lloyd as president of the taxpayer advocacy group RI Taxpayers (formerly known as the Rhode Island Statewide Coalition). The decision was discussed a week later on \"A Lively Experiment\"; one of the guest panelists, columnist Donna Perry, was the executive director of RI Taxpayers.\n\nAs president of the organization, Block was an active public speaker and made numerous appearances before state committee hearings. On March 13, 2013, he testified before RI House Judiciary Committee on behalf of both the Moderate Party and RI Taxpayers urging the members to pass legislation for eliminating \"master lever\" voting in the state. At the RI Taxpayers' annual meeting on May 11, Block issued a formal challenge to the General Assembly to \"stop stalling\" on economic-related legislation for businesses and taxpayers before adjourning next month. At another meeting, Block called for more citizen involvement in local government and warned that voter apathy, especially among people under 40, would continue to result in poor legislation and a lack of accountability by political leadership. He also spoke about the importance of economic reforms and the need to improve the state's business climate. After a four-month term, Block resigned his position with RI Taxpayers to run in the 2014 elections.\n\nOn May 21, 2013, Block announced he would once again run for office as Governor of Rhode Island in the 2014 election. Weeks later, political operative Jeff Britt joined the Moderate Party as Block's campaign manager. Britt was previously a political ally of Democratic House Speaker Gordon Fox and former Republican governor Don Carcieri. His campaign was endorsed by blogger and third-party activist Dennis Mikolay praising him as a government watchdog. One of his last public appearances as a Moderate candidate took place at Roger Williams University on September 30, 2013.\n\nOn October 28, 2013, Block officially announced at a Barrington town hall meeting that he would be joining the Republican Party with the intention of running as its candidate for the 2014 gubernatorial election. The news was not totally unexpected as Block, who had been largely funding the Moderate Party with his own finances, including his 2010 campaign, held a poll on his chances running as a Moderate or Republican candidate over the summer. A Taubman Center for Public Policy and American Institutions poll indicated only 9% of participants would vote for Block as a Moderate candidate. Three months earlier, Block suggested that he would be open to running as a Republican during a WPRO interview with Buddy Cianci. He had also been courted by Republican Joe Trillo to join the party partially to prevent another four-way race which allowed then independent candidate Lincoln Chafee to win the 2010 election.\n\nJohn DePetro called Block's decision a \"smart political move\" and speculated on the upcoming GOP primary between Block and Republican party favorite Cranston mayor Allan Fung. The news was also discussed on \"A Lively Experiment\" with guest panelists Dave Layman, WPRO/WPRI legal analyst Louis Pulner, Brown University political science professor Wendy Schiller, and Arlene Violet.\n\nBlock declared his intention to run as the party's nominee in a letter to 20,000 Republican voters and based his campaign on an ambitious plan to save the state $1 billion in government waste over a four-year period. He further explained that this amount could easily be achieved by focusing on \"off budget\" spending such as public sector retiree healthcare, temporary disability, and unemployment insurance. Block offered the state's Temporary Disability Insurance (TDI) program as an example. Cutting the annual costs in half for the TDI program, which is twice as much to run as New Jersey, would save $80 million alone. Block outlined his plan on his official website in addition to other forums as well. In November 2013, he was invited to write a column for \"The Providence Journal\" to make his case for saving the state $1 billion by eliminating government waste. Block was also interviewed by Tim White and Ted Nesi on the November 15th edition of WPRI's \"Eyewitness News\" and further explained his plan to save the state $1 billion.\n\nThat same month, PolitiFact.com rated a claim by Block that Rhode Island has the most expensive unemployment system in the country as \"false\". According to the \"2014 State Business Tax Climate Index\", published by the Tax Foundation, Rhode Island ranked 46 out of the 50 states. In the report, Rhode Island's unemployment insurance system was rated the worst in the country, however, that alone did not indicate it was the most expensive. Block’s policy director, Matthew Schweich, defended the statement pointing out that Rhode Island was ranked near the bottom in almost every category and argued that the cumulative effect supports their claim. Block responded to the website in a letter to the editor of \"The Providence Journal\" acknowledging the error \"but choosing the wrong words and intentionally misleading voters are different types of mistakes\".\n\nIn December 2013, longtime Rhode Island GOP fundraiser Tony Bucci resigned his slot on Fung's campaign committee to join Ken Block's gubernatorial campaign as a senior adviser and finance chairman.\n\nBlock lives in Barrington, Rhode Island with his wife Jennifer, a middle school science teacher, and their two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2376857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2376857", "title": "List of Protestant martyrs of the English Reformation", "text": "List of Protestant martyrs of the English Reformation\n\nProtestants were executed under heresy laws during persecutions against Protestant religious reformers for their religious denomination during the reigns of Henry VIII (1509–1547) and Mary I of England (1553–1558). Radical Christians also were executed, though in much smaller numbers, during the reigns of Edward VI (1547–1553), Elizabeth I (during whose reign, 1558–1603, some Roman Catholics also were executed, charged with treason), and James I (1603–1625). The excesses of this period were recorded in Foxe's \"Book of Martyrs\".\n\nProtestants in England and Wales were executed under legislation that punished anyone judged guilty of heresy against Catholicism. Although the standard penalty for those convicted of treason in England at the time was execution by being hanged, drawn and quartered, this legislation adopted the punishment of burning the condemned. At least 300 people were recognised as burned over the five years of Mary I's reign by contemporary sources.\n\n\n\nThe English Reformation had put a stop to Catholic ecclesiastical governance in England, asserted royal supremacy over the English Church and dissolved some church institutions, such as monasteries and chantries.\n\nAn important year in the English Reformation was 1547, when Protestantism became a new force under the child-king Edward VI, England's first Protestant ruler. Edward died at age 15 in 1553. Lady Jane Grey tried to succeed as Queen for nine days before Edward's Catholic half-sister Mary deposed her and assumed the crown, as was stipulated by Henry VIII in his Third Succession Act but revoked by Edward VI.\n\nThe relationship between the English church and Rome was restored under Mary in 1553. She went on to reign for five years (1553–1558) until her death. Protestants opposed Mary's actions. Many people were exiled, and hundreds of dissenters were burned at the stake, earning her the nickname \"Bloody Mary\". The number of people executed for their faith during the persecutions is thought to be at least 287.\n\nAfter the accession of Queen Mary I to the English throne in 1553, and her repeal of all religious legislation passed under Edward VI, Protestants faced a choice: exile, reconciliation/conversion, or punishment. Mary had some 284 Protestants burned at the stake (including 56 women). Thirty others died in prison. While the so-called \"Marian Persecutions\" began with four clergymen, relics of Edwardian England's Protestantism, \"Foxe's Book of Martyrs\" offers an account of the executions, which branched well beyond the anticipated targets – high-level clergy. Tradesmen were also burned, as well as married men and women, sometimes in unison, \"youths\" and at least one couple was burned alive with their daughter.\n\nHowever bloody the end, the trials of Protestant heretics were judicial affairs, presided by Bishops (most notably Bishop Bonner) adhering to a strict legal protocol under the privy council, with Parliament's blessing. Mary had difficulty forming an efficient Privy Council, which eventually numbered over 40 and never worked as a source of political advice, though it effectively pursued police work and enforcement of religious uniformity. During the session that restored the realm to papal obedience parliament reinstated the heresy laws. From 20 January 1555, England could legally punish those judged guilty of heresy against the Catholic faith.\n\nThus it became a matter of establishing the guilt or innocence of an accused heretic in open court – a process which the lay authorities employed to reclaim \"straying sheep\" and to set a precedent for authentic Catholic teaching. If found guilty, the accused were first excommunicated, then handed over to the secular authorities for execution. The official records of the trials are limited to formal accusations, sentences, and so forth; the documents to which historians look for context and detail are those written by the accused or their supporters.\n\nEngland\n\n\nWales\n\n\nBefore Mary's ascent to the throne, John Foxe, one of the few clerics of his day who was against the burning of even obstinate heretics, had approached John Rogers to intervene on behalf of Joan of Kent, a female Anabaptist who was sentenced to burning in 1550. Rogers, a Protestant preacher and royal chaplain, refused to help, as he supported the burning of heretics. Rogers claimed that the method of execution was \"sufficiently mild\" for a crime as grave as heresy. Later, after Mary I came to power and restored England to Catholicism, John Rogers spoke quite vehemently against the new order and was burnt as a heretic.\n\nThe figure of 300 victims of the Marian Persecutions was given by Foxe and later by Thomas Brice in his poem, \"The Regester\".\n\nThroughout the course of the persecutions, Foxe lists 312 individuals who were burnt or hanged for their faith, or died or sickened in prison. Lists of these names are available here and here. Three of these people are commemorated with a gothic memorial in Oxford, England but there are many other memorials across England. They are known locally as the \"Marian Martyrs\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42210469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42210469", "title": "List of West Bengal Left Front candidates in the 2014 Indian general election", "text": "List of West Bengal Left Front candidates in the 2014 Indian general election\n\nFor the Indian general election, 2014, the candidates for the \"Lok Sabha\" (lower house of the India parliament) of the West Bengal Left Front were as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "26456741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26456741", "title": "List of largest residences in Saudi Arabia", "text": "List of largest residences in Saudi Arabia\n\nThis is a list of single-family residences located in Saudi Arabia which have living space in excess of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2489126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2489126", "title": "Lombard credit", "text": "Lombard credit\n\nLombard credit is the granting of credit to banks against pledged items, mostly in the form of securities or life insurance policies. The pledged items must be readily marketable. Lending is via central banks, in particular the securities 'eligible for collateral' which are registered on lists; as a general rule, the Lombard rate (interest rate) is more or less one per cent above discount rate. The pledging of securities means that the credit institutions have the opportunity of acquiring money in the short term from central banks.\n\nThe term comes from Lombards, people who conquered Italy 6c. and settled in the northern region that became known as Lombardy. Rich cities in north Italy - Lombardy - were the birthplace of modern banking, and many of their inhabitants became notable in Middle Ages throughout Western Europe as bankers and money-lenders, also pawn-brokers; London's Lombard Street (1598) originally was occupied by \"Lombard\" bankers.\n\nOne prominent role of Lombard credit is in use by the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America. Traditionally, the discount rate, or the rate charged by the Fed to member banks in need of funds (ostensibly to maintain the required reserve ratio), was \"lower\" than the target federal funds rate, or the rate charged among banks for the same type of overnight credit. This meant that banks could borrow from the Central Bank at a lower rate than they could from each other, which somewhat conflicts with the Central Bank's role as a \"lender of last resort\". A discount rate lower than the rate typically charged by another bank opened the possibility of arbitrage and thus required extra scrutiny of potential borrowers. The Federal Reserve Board of the United States switched to a so-called \"Lombard facility,\" in which the discount rate is actually \"higher\" than the targeted federal funds rate, thus creating an \"economic\" incentive for banks to look elsewhere before asking to borrow from the Fed.\n\nA 2011 economic brief from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond said many bank executives and market participants perceive a stigma attached to borrowing from the Discount window, so while the vast majority of federal funds loans occur below the discount rate (at or near the Target federal funds rate), there have been instances when banks have paid above-market rates (particularly, rates at or even above the discount rate) for federal funds.\n"}
{"id": "22913631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22913631", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture (Russia)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture (Russia)\n\nThe Russian Federation Ministry of Agriculture is the cabinet-level agency responsible for support of agricultural production, soil conservation, rural development, agricultural market regulation, and financial stabilization of the farm sector.\n\nIn addition to being subdivided into functional departments, the ministry supervises the federal service for veterinary and phytosanitary surveillance.\n\nThe current minister is Dmitry Patrushev.\n\nThe first Imperial Russian ministry to deal with agricultural and rural issues was the Ministry of State Assets of the Russian Empire, formed in 1837. Successor ministries were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29191543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29191543", "title": "Motion (surveillance software)", "text": "Motion (surveillance software)\n\nMotion, \"a software motion detector\", is a free, open source CCTV software application developed for Linux.\n\nIt can monitor video signal from one or more cameras and is able to detect if a significant part of the picture has changed saving away video when it detects that motion is occurring (it can also do time lapse videos, et al.).\n\nThe program is written in C and is made for Linux (exploiting video4linux interface). Motion is a command line-based tool whose output can be either jpeg, netpbm files or mpeg video sequences. It is strictly command line driven and can run as a daemon with a rather small footprint and low CPU usage.\n\nIt is operated mainly via config files, though the end video streams can be viewed from a web browser.\nIt can also call to user configurable \"triggers\" when certain events occur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16032872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16032872", "title": "Movement for the Social Evolution of Black Africa", "text": "Movement for the Social Evolution of Black Africa\n\nThe Movement for the Social Evolution of Black Africa (, MESAN) is a political party in the Central African Republic. In its original form, it was a nationalist quasi-religious party that sought to affirm black humanity and advocated for the independence of Ubangi-Shari, then a French colonial territory.\n\nThe party, which was initially intended to work as a political movement, was founded by Barthélemy Boganda in Bangui, Ubangi-Shari (later known as the Central African Republic) on 28 September 1949, to connect \"all the Blacks of the world\" and \"to promote the political, economic and social evolution of black Africa, to break down the barriers of tribalism and racism, to replace the degrading notion of colonial subordination with the more human ones of fraternity and cooperation.\"\n\nThe statutes of the movement were written in April 1950, and the group's branches were set up in Ubangui, Fort Lamy and Brazzaville. The formation of MESAN did not sit well with the French territorial administration. They set up divisions of the Rassemblement du Peuple Français (French People's Party, also known as RPF) in Ubangi-Shari to oppose the MESAN. The movement also encountered resistance in French Equatorial Africa from the Rassemblement Démocratique Africain (African Democratic Rally, RDA), a political party initially geared towards Pan-Africanism that later became hostile towards efforts for African independence.\nIn the Territorial Assembly elections in 1957, MESAN captured 347,000 out of the total 356,000 votes cast and won every legislative seat, which led to Boganda being elected president of the Grand Council of French Equatorial Africa and vice-president of the Ubangi-Shari Government Council. Within a year, he declared the establishment of the Central African Republic and served as the country's first prime minister. MESAN continued to exist, but its role was limited. After Boganda's death in a plane crash on 29 March 1959, his cousin, David Dacko, took control of MESAN. The party won every seat in the 1959 elections, with Dacko becoming the country's first president after the CAR formally received independence from France. Dacko threw out his political rivals, including former Prime Minister and Mouvement d'évolution démocratique de l'Afrique centrale (MEDAC) leader Abel Goumba, who he forced into exile in France. With all opposition parties suppressed by November 1962, Dacko declared MESAN as the official party of the state. MESAN won every seat again in the 1964 elections, whilst Dacko was re-elected as President in an unopposed election.\n\nOn 31 December 1965, General Jean-Bédel Bokassa, a cousin of both Boganda and Dacko, seized power in the CAR through a coup d'état. The next day, 1 January 1966, he proclaimed himself president, prime minister, and head of MESAN. Bokassa stayed in power for the next 13 years. In 1972, he appointed Elisabeth Domitien as vice president of the party, and three years later as prime minister, a first for any woman of an African nation. At the MESAN congress on 4 December 1976, Bokassa instituted a new constitution and declared the republic a monarchy, to be known as the Central African Empire. In September 1979, Bokassa was overthrown and Dacko once again became president of the CAR. On 24 November 1979, he abolished MESAN and replaced it with the Union Démocratique Centrafricaine, which he proclaimed as the new political party for the CAR.\n\nThe party was re-established after the return of multi-party politics in the early 1990s. In the 1993 general elections it won a single seat in the National Assembly.\n\nThe party nominated only one candidate for the 2011 elections, failing to win a seat.\n"}
{"id": "47417960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47417960", "title": "National Homelessness Advice Service", "text": "National Homelessness Advice Service\n\nThe National Homelessness Advice Service (NHAS) is an advice, training and support service in the United Kingdom. It advises on housing and homelessness and is used by local authorities, local citizen's advice and other agencies who give advice to the public on housing/homelessness to seek advice on queries. The NHAS is funded by the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government and provided by Shelter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27751077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27751077", "title": "National Intelligence Organization (Papua New Guinea)", "text": "National Intelligence Organization (Papua New Guinea)\n\nThe National Intelligence Organization (NIO) is the intelligence agency of Papua New Guinea.\n\nIt was established by the \"National Intelligence Organization Act\", an Act of Parliament in 1984. As defined by the Act (art.7), the Organization's functions are to \"collect, collate and process intelligence information\", and provide the authorities with \"timely, accurate and impartial assessments, forecasts and reports in respect of–\n\nThe NIO is headed by a Director-General of Intelligence, appointed by the Head of State (the Queen, whose duties are exercised by the Governor General), who appoints him or her acting on the advice of the Prime Minister, after consultation with the Leader of the Opposition. (art.8(1)(a))\n\nThe Act specifies that, before authorising the NIO to \"collect intelligence information outside the country by other than overt means\", the Director-General must obtain written authorisation from the Prime Minister. (art.12)\n\nThe NIO may not search any person or premises, nor subject any person or premises to listening devices, nor access or intercept a person's post, without a warrant delivered by the National Security Council, which consists in the Prime Minister and various Cabinet Ministers. (part VI)\n\nThe identity of the Organization's agents and employees (other than the Director-General) is to be kept secret, and divulging the identity of any such agent or employee is an offence. (art.47)\n\nThe Organization is currently operational, and the key findings of its reports are occasionally made public and commented on in the media. In 2013, Prime Minister Peter O'Neill appointed former police commissioner Gari Baki to lead the NIC, and to revive it as it had become \"run down\". O'Neill added that Papua New Guinea was now working with \"some intelligence friends from Israel\" so as to \"beef up our intelligence gathering activities\".\n"}
{"id": "14546141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14546141", "title": "Occupational inequality", "text": "Occupational inequality\n\nOccupational inequality is the unequal treatment of people based on gender, sexuality, height, weight, accent, or race in the workplace. When researchers study trends in occupational inequality they usually focus on distribution or allocation pattern of groups across occupations, for example, the distribution of men compared to women in a certain occupation. Secondly, they focus on the link between occupation and income, for example, comparing the income of whites with blacks in the same occupation.\n\nOccupational inequality greatly affects the socioeconomic status of an individual which is linked with their access to resources like finding a job, buying a house, etc. If an individual experiences occupational inequality, it may be more difficult for them to find a job, advance in their job, get a loan or buy a house. Occupational standing can lead to predictions of outcomes such as social standing and wealth which have long-lasting effects on the individual as well as their dependants. Segregation by gender in the labor force is extremely high, hence the reason why there remain so many disparities and inequalities among men and women of equitable qualifications. The division of labor is a central feature for gender based inequality. It influences the structure both based on its economic aspects and construction of identities. However, studies show that the general overall picture of gender and labor has not been evaluated. The importance of these issues is pertinent for the future structure of our labor force.\n\nThe enactment of federal equal employment opportunity (EEO) laws were passed in the 1960s to enforce equal employment opportunities and to eradicate past discrimination against women and minority men in the workplace. In the 1960s and 1970s, the US saw a tremendous decrease in occupational inequality; however, in the 1980s and 1990s, it began to rise again.\n\nOccupational inequality has historically always been a problem, but could diminish over time, according to Richard A. Miech, who attributes this potential change to economic theory. He determines that race and sex discrimination is inefficient in a competitive world because it calls for only white men to be employed. White men, however, will demand a higher salary than women or people of other races who have the same education and abilities, thus discriminating employers lose more money. Non-discriminating employers can gain an edge in the competitive market by hiring women and minorities, thereby reducing occupational inequality. This plan, if taken on by employers, could perpetuate over time to other employers in which occupational inequality could decrease nationally. Other theories and research suggests occupational inequality is increasing and will continue to do so.\n\nAccording to the process of \"aging effects\", occupational inequality will continue with advancing age. According to this theory, the labor market consists of two sectors of jobs; one is the \"primary\" core of good jobs with good working conditions, advancement opportunities and job safety. The other is the \"peripheral\" sector of bad jobs with bad working conditions, low advancement opportunities and little job safety. Mobility between these two groups is very difficult. Women and minorities are disproportionately placed into the peripheral sector early on in their careers with little chance of moving into the primary group to achieve equal occupational status.\n\nThe theory of \"homosocial reproduction\" points to a trend where those in high position tend to pick the employees who have similar social backgrounds as their own for advancement. Since the majority of managers are men, women are less chosen for career advancement and thus occupational inequality increases.\n\nThe Duncan Socioeconomic Index (SEI) has been most commonly used to measure Occupational Status. It is based on two factors, occupational earnings and occupational education.\n\nOne way occupational inequality is measured is by the index of dissimilarity (D). The equation is as follows:\n\nD=½ε|X-Y|\n\nwhere X equals the percent of race or sex group X in the labor force in occupation i and Y equals the percent of race or sex group Y in occupation i. D is the measure of one half the sum of the absolute difference between the percentage distributions. The values range from 0 to 100 and measures the relative separation or integration of groups across an area. If the value equals 0% it means the area is distributed evenly. If the value is 100% it means the area is completely segregated. If the value is 60%, for example, it means 60% of workers would have to change occupations to make the distributions equal.\n\nOccupational inequality is often linked with occupational segregation in a work place. The greater the segregation in a workplace, the greater the occupational inequality. This is true specifically for jobs dominated by a certain minority or women. They often have bad work environments and less income than white males who usually make up the managerial positions with better work environments and more pay.\n\nSome common inequalities that take place in the workplace are the gender-based imbalances of individuals in power and command over the management of the organization. Women are not able to move up into higher paid positions as quickly as men. Some organizations have more inequality than others, and the extent to which it occurs can differ greatly. In the workplace the men usually hold the higher positions and the women often hold lower paid positions such as secretaries. Gender inequality can also be understood when looking at transgender workers. Workers have different experiences when transitioning at the workplace. Power that was held previously can be lost when transitioning to a woman while workers transitioning to a man can experience a power gain.\n\nEthnicity has a large influence on the quality of jobs as well as the amount of money an individual will make in the workforce. Today, African American men working full-time and year-round have 72 percent of the average earnings of comparable white men. Between African American and white women, the wage ratio is 85 percent. The black unemployment rate is typically at about double the rate among white people. White men have many substantial advantages in the workplace. They are offered a larger variety of job opportunities. The positions that earn the most money and have the most power are usually occupied by white men. Though this type of inequality has been lowered in the last 20 years, it is still common.\n\nThere are organizing processes that produce class, racial, and gender inequalities. Many inequalities occur because of implicit bias. Many people have argued that the women gain their social position from the men around them, such as their fathers and their husbands. This is because womanhood has, throughout history, been attributed to child bearing and raising a family. Employment, and the benefits that came with it, always came after their family life. In the workplace it is required that a worker shows up on time and works continuously for the entire workday, which usually consists of eight hours. Since women were responsible for raising children, they had much less time and flexibility to partake in full-time jobs, and thus women in the workforce were generally only seen in part-time positions. This trend is part of what leads to modern-day inequality.\n\nAs the occupational pipeline, the educational background and environment in which people develop profoundly shapes the direction in which their career path with follow. Historically, there has been a significant gender imbalance in fields of study. Women have always dominated the humanities, while men have held a sizeable difference when it comes to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. Some of the primary factors leading to gender imbalances in collegiate fields of study include differences in pre-college preparation, personal preference for a field of study, and career prospects.\n\nThe American Workforce has become increasingly specialized in the last century developing from a mix of agricultural and industrial jobs to greater specialization among American workers. The growth of outsourcing of American jobs to countries such as China and other nations of Southeast Asia has been linked to the decline of employment opportunities for Americans from low-income, urban communities who once were the employee base for the American industrial sector. Over the last 15 years, however, the number of outsourced has increased by 23%. This development has had a significant effect on the employment prospects of certain sectors of the American population, most notably on those of low socio-economic status.\n\nSkill-Based technical Change, as this shift in production and employment trends is called, favors the skilled worker over the unskilled worker and has been occasioned by the development of increasingly complex technologies, which both require more training of employees and, in some instances, can replace unskilled workers. The combination of increased specialization and digitalization and the outsourcing of jobs for unskilled workers have led to an increased need among American employees to invest in greater technical and intellectual skills building. This, however, proves difficult for those of low socioeconomic status, which has been shown to limit education, and, by extension, income and occupation.\n\nLow socioeconomic status also correlates with an individual's human capital, defined by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) as the \"knowledge, skills, competencies and other attributes that are relevant to economic activity\". The term capital-skill complementarity describes the close relationship that exists between access to human capital and skills development. The existence of this complementarity indicates that the socioeconomic status, by means of its direct effect on access to human capital, determines employee skill sets and employability.\n\nThose from low-socioeconomic backgrounds have less access to resources as a result of unequal distribution of the resources, which contribute to greater community skill building. Higher socioeconomic status, by contrast, has been linked to access to greater high-quality connections, greater proficiency in technical skills like ordinal sequencing and ability to problem-solve. Access to high-quality connections, in turn, is linked to greater social capital. Technical skills are a result of access to greater human capital which, when defined as access to knowledge and skill-building opportunities, is lacking in low SES communities. Gaps in the socioeconomic status of Americans have led to the current division of the American workforce into a base of low SES, unskilled workers and skilled employees who generally come from higher SES, highly educated backgrounds and are, therefore, more likely to attain the higher education necessary to enter the market for skilled workers. Members of low-SES communities lack access to the educational opportunities, which would enable them to develop the skills they need to advance economically and increase their employability in a skills-biased economy.\n\nExisting disparities between socio-economic groups continue the perpetuation of a workforce divided into unskilled and skilled workers and ensures that low SES Americans will continue to lack the human capital they need to develop employable skills. Evidence from research conducted by the OECD shows that \"the skills-education gap has widened in Africa, South America, Eastern Europe and most developed OECD countries.\" Because skills facilitate the diffusion of technical knowledge and innovation and human capital is key to the individuals' ability to assimilate new technology and to develop institutional knowledge as well as to increase access to high-quality connections low SES has been shown to contribute to inequalities in skill building and thus depresses the employability of low-income Americans.\n\nAn integral part of anyone's ability to obtain a job lies in his or her skills and ability to perform that job successfully and efficiently. And beyond simply attaining a job, the skills they are able to acquire over time along with the skills they possessed previously also affect their wages once they have a job. However, it is difficult to discuss the role of skill in the workplace without discussing its relationship to racial and gender discrimination. The sections on discrimination will talk about more specifically about how the ability to get hired and the gaps in wages are affected by race and gender, but in the context of skill, the two relate in the context of educational opportunities and resources. In nationwide studies, skill supply can often be incorrectly measured because people assume that any standard level of educational achievement (such as high school graduate) should provide a common standard for skill; however, minorities that only have access to local, less academically rigorous schools are likely to be less skilled than whites that are at the same standard educational level. Furthermore, differences in wages between racial groups can be attributed to differences in skill that began during early education. According to human capital theory, there is a positive correlation between a worker's skill supply and their wage earnings. The more skilled the worker and the better they are at their job, the more they will get paid. There is also a correlation between skill and education, suggesting that the more educated a worker is, the more skilled they will be. Therefore, there will be wage gaps between racial groups because of the differences in education and therefore, skill.\n\nAlso concerning the role of education in acquiring skills, people are now required to receive more education and earn higher degrees in order to get jobs than they have in the past. For example, many nurses are now required to have a bachelor's degree in nursing in order to work, which increases the enrollment in nursing courses at four-year colleges, as well as forcing many to return to school in order to fulfill the requirements.\nThey have even opened programs for people who are already registered nurses, so that they can earn bachelor's degrees. Not only are workers having to earn more degrees to find jobs than before, but with the increasing role of new technology in the workplace, workers must be more specialized in their skills as well. We are entering an age of hyper-specialization, meaning that companies are now more frequently subdividing labor into complex networks of individual, specialized tasks. Because employers are looking for more specialized skill sets, people are required to develop more highly specialized skills. This makes it more difficult to find jobs, especially for older workers who are not as familiar with modern technology and specializing in specific skills. In the past, people have been able to have a more general skill set that encompasses many aspects of a business, but now they must be highly specialized in one or two specific skills. Although it remains consistent that the more skillful a worker is, the higher their wages will be, the role of skills in the workplace has transformed over time to require more education and more specialized skill, making it even more difficult to bridge the racial and gender wage and employment gaps.\n\nDiscrimination is the unfair treatment of an individual based on different characteristics such as age, race, or sex. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 specifically addresses protection against discrimination in regard to employment, outlawing employment discrimination of an individual \"because of such individual's race, color, religion, sex, or national origin\". With the passage of the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission regulates the compliance to Title VII of employers with fifteen or more employees. The EEOC investigates and, if deemed necessary, files suit against employers who face charges of discrimination. A brief overview of the forms of discrimination the EEOC investigates shows the advances in equal opportunity legislation over the years.\n\n\"Age\" discrimination outlaws unfair treatment of individuals who are age forty or older. Discrimination practices may include excessive harassment of an individual or limiting an individual's work opportunities based on their age. Disability discrimination policies protect individuals covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act or the Rehabilitation Act from unfair treatment. Policies require the employer to provide \"reasonable accommodation\" (example: wheelchair accessibility) for disabled individuals, unless the employer provides sufficient reasons for why changes would cause \"undue hardship\".\n\n\"Equal pay and compensation policie\"s state that employers must provide men and women in the same workplace equal pay (this includes all types of salary) for equal work. Based on content, the jobs must be \"substantially\" equal, but not necessarily identical.\n\n\"Genetic information\" (including family medical history) must remain confidential information. Employers are prohibited from discriminating against an individual based on genetic information or requiring the disclosure of genetic information.\n\n\"National origin\" policies prohibit discrimination against an individual because of their real or assumed ethnicity, accent, or geographic roots. These policies also protect against discrimination toward individuals associated with people from particular national origins or groups.\n\n\"Pregnancy\" policies state that women who are temporarily unable to perform their regular duties at work due to pregnancy or childbirth must receive the same benefits and treatment that a temporarily disabled employee would receive. This may include such opportunities as unpaid leave, alternative work assignments, or disability leave.\n\n\"Race/color discrimination\" includes the unfair treatment of an individual based on race, physical characteristics associated with certain races, or skin color. Policies protect spouses, and individuals affiliated with or belonging to race-based or color-associated organizations.\n\"Religious discrimination\" policies protect all individuals \"who have sincerely held religious, ethical or moral beliefs\". Unless the employer proves it an undue hardship, dress and grooming accommodations, as well as reasonable adjustments to allow for the individual to practice their religion may be required.\n\"Retaliation\" policies prohibit employers from retaliating against employees who have filed discrimination charges, complaints, or help with an investigation.\n\n\"Sex discrimination\" policies protect individuals from facing unfair treatment because of their sex or their association with a sex-specific group or organization.\n\n\"Sexual harassment\" laws protect individuals from, \" \"sexual harassment' or unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical harassment of a sexual nature\" \". Offensive comments also fall under sexual harassment and may result in legal charges.\n\nMore recently, groups have claimed reverse discrimination: as employers strive to reach affirmative action minority quota goals, majority group members may receive unfair treatment as a result. The EEOC regulates employer practices regardless of minority or majority status.\n\nDespite the anti-discrimination legislative measures taken, discrimination in the workplace is still a prevalent issue. Racial discrimination particularly remains problematic.\n\nComplex networks are a core part basic employment and business practices that exist in our society today. More and more, people are using personal connections to find opportunities that would normally be found through job searches. These connections can be through an educational institution, friends, family members, and even networking websites like LinkedIn and Facebook. Networking is a somewhat recent phenomenon of using connections to foster new relationships and opportunities. There are two kinds of network ties: strong ties, which are connections with people who you have frequent and close interactions with, and weak ties, which are connections with people whom you have infrequent and sparse interactions with. However, the basic goal is to make as many connections you can and in every direction possible. Whether that is laterally, below you, and above you, it is beneficial to know people of all calibers.\nAlthough the law prohibits employers from choosing not to hire some one based on an uncontrollable factor like race or gender, it is still very prominent in our society today. The Fourteenth Amendment, stating that all citizens be treated equally, has promoted and created equality in the work force, but it isn't able to offer everyone the same opportunities. Many people are born into lifestyles that don't give them the same opportunities that more fortunate people have, and these disadvantages are the cause of the inequality we still see today. Although socioeconomic factors play a huge role in these opportunities, a person's race and gender are equally responsible for the connections and opportunities they are presented with.\n\nIn her article, \"Don't put my name on it,\" Sandra Smith, a sociologist at the University of California Berkeley, discusses the prevalence of discriminatory practices in our society today. She focuses on the African American population, and the limitations that burden them as a result of networking disadvantages. \"From a social capital theoretical perspective, deficiencies in access to mainstream ties and institutions explain persistent joblessness among the black urban poor\". The historical disadvantages that African Americans still face today are the reason for the lack of progression in networking. Regardless of true mental or physical capabilities, African Americans are disadvantaged when it comes to attaining a job, simply because they aren't part of the largely white networks that dominate our society today. It is difficult to meet the right people and find the right opportunities when our society subconsciously puts up barriers to them. \"Instead, the inefficaciousness of job referral networks appears to have more to do with functional deficiencies (see Coleman and Hoffer 1987)—the disinclination of potential job contacts to assist when given the opportunity to do so, not because they lack information or the ability to influence hires, but because they perceive pervasive untrustworthiness among their job-seeking ties and choose not to assist,\" (3).\n\nNetworking, the idea of using connections to foster new relationships and opportunities should be an advantage to every member of our society. Laws that demand equal opportunity for everyone should also generate similar equality in the work force. However, historical discriminatory attitudes that continue to plague the country today are making it difficult for people of minorities to attain jobs, especially because of the significance of networking and the extent to which is generates success.\n\nThe gender wage gap is the difference between average earnings for men and women. There are multiple theories for the reasons as to why this exists, but a large amount of the gender wage gap can be attributed to the fact that women work different jobs than men, as opposed to that women are paid differently within the same jobs or establishments.\n\nIn a study completed in 2005 it was found that working fathers are paid a 8.6% higher starting wage than working mothers.\n\nIt has also been found that there is a pay gap between mothers and non-mothers. \"Mothers were recommended a 7.9% lower starting salary than non-mothers\" (Correll and Bernard 2005)\n\nWhen women return to work after maternity leave they can feel uncertain about where they stand. \"According to figures analysed by the House of Commons library, 14 per cent of the 340,000 women who take maternity leave each year find their jobs under threat, when they try to return to work.”. (Fairley 2013) \n\nTokenism is an extremely common practice in the workplace environment of today; it can essentially be defined as the act of going out of one's way to include members of minority groups. According to Rosabeth Kanter's 1977 publication Men and Women of the Corporation, the inability to achieve equality within the workplace can be largely attributed to the placement of \"token status\" on certain groups of individuals. Oftentimes tokens possess marginal status as members who are allowed entrance but do not get to experience full participation due to their status as an \"outsider\" who may be fully qualified for the position but does not possess the necessary characteristics, i.e. sex or race, that are usually expected of persons in said position. \nThe term token can also be used to describe people who are hired due to their difference from other members of the company or other employees: oftentimes this is done as an attempt to prove that the group does not discriminate against said group of people. This variety of tokenism is thought to have originated in the Southern United States, where schools and businesses would admit token African Americans in order to meet the desegregation orders of the federal government. In many instances, the number of tokens accepted into a group or company is less than the number of people from the token group who are qualified for acceptance. However, in some cases, tokens are people who do not possess the necessary qualifications to hold a position but are admitted because of their token status.\n\nAn individual who possesses token status can have a very affected career experience. Kanter hypothesizes that oftentimes, the token's experience is less related to whatever attribute makes them a token and more so influenced by the structural restraints that are intrinsic to the positions they fill. To elaborate, the positions held by tokens are generally lacking in power and the opportunity for advancement. Additionally, tokens operating within workplaces with skewed ratios that result in them being extremely outnumbered are \"often treated as representations of their category, as symbols rather than individuals\". Tokens are also extremely visible and subject to scrutiny due to their evident contrast from the majority. This can create large amounts of pressure to perform well; tokens will often either respond to this with overachievement or underachievement, both of which make further advancement difficult. More often than not, token status often leads to \"demotivation, lower levels of performance, and diminished aspirations for the future\".\n\nMany solutions to the problem of tokenism have been suggested; though a balanced work force will not eliminate all of the issues faced by tokens in the workplace, movement towards balance will help open the doors to some improvement. However, balancing the numbers and ratios is not necessarily the biggest issue at hand: many researchers suggest that power, privilege, and prestige are more important factors in the relationship between dominant and secondary groups in the workplace. Many believe that as the proportions of minority and majority workers balance out, tension within the workplace is actually more likely to increase rather than decrease. Though this may be true, the theory that increasing the proportions of the token groups would alleviate the issue should not be in any way discounted. This solution could possibly \"reduce the isolation and effects of tokenism, improve token's position in the power structure of the department, and also increase their opportunities\". Another solution could be to increase the number of tokens in managerial positions and to apply new policies of hiring and promotion; this affirmative action could work to give tokens the confidence they need to become full participants in the workplace rather than just representations of their category or token attribute.\n\nPeople's career experiences are largely affected by how they are viewed by their coworkers, and the way employees' actions are perceived may vary based on gender due to the existence of a \"double bind\" for women. Social scientist Gregory Bateson described the general concept of a double bind as \"a situation in which no matter what a person does, he 'can't win.'\" If individuals are instructed or expected to act in contradictory ways, then they are caught in a double bind because no action they choose will be determined acceptable.\n\nMost men do not have difficulty reconciling their gender with expectations as an employee, for \"definitions of ideal workers as those who are completely dedicated to their work, without career interruptions or outside responsibilities, privilege male workers.\" Additionally, being confident and assertive reflects positive traits for both men and leaders. Women, on the other hand, are compared to stereotypes about passive femininity that mean if they are assertive, they are viewed as acting in conflict with their internal nature and criticized. More generally, \"when women act in ways that are consistent with gender stereotypes, they are viewed as less competent leaders,\" but \"when women act in ways that are inconsistent with such stereotypes, they're considered as unfeminine.\" This represents a double bind because both perceptions paint women in a negative light.\n\nHow women choose to react to this double bind situation will affect their experience in the workplace. For example, while women who act stereotypically masculine \"might be viewed as competent because of their leadership style, they also receive more negative evaluations of their interpersonal skills than women who adopt a 'feminine' style\" and \"not being liked can […] negatively impact women's work relationships, access to social networks, day-to-day interactions and, ultimately, their advancement opportunities.\" As some industries, such as Wall St. firms, rely on peer evaluations to determine pay, promotion, and more generally assess a worker's contribution and worth, how women are perceived will affect their career experiences. Additionally, women who are continually passed over for advancement may choose to leave rather than stay and feel undervalued.\n\nSociologists have specifically studied how the idea of the ideal worker clashes with the view of women as mothers or potential mothers. For example, Catherine Turco explored the leverage buyout (LBO) industry and determined that \"by casting the ideal investor as one who puts commitment to work above all else, the LBO image implicitly specifies another social role—that of mother—as mutually incompatible with the occupational role.\" Similarly, lab experiments and audit studies found that a \"motherhood penalty\" exists that can negatively affect wages and performance evaluations. Moreover, negative views of mothers working may be expanded to non-mothers and even those who are unmarried because \"all women [may be viewed] as potential mothers.\" This may be due to cultural assumptions that women will leave work when they have children, thus causing other workers and managers to view them as less committed, even if they have expressed that this is not their plan. The double bind here exists because even if women try to present themselves as serious workers, their role as mothers or their ability to become pregnant causes employers to treat them differently. As women are being judged by virtue of being female, institutional norms about what it means to be a good worker must be changed to remove the double bind experienced by women.\n\nSince the Stonewall riots of 1969, the visibility and acceptance of gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (GLBT) employees in corporate America has steadily been on the rise; the first gay employee network appeared in 1978, and in 1991, the first Fortune 1000 company offered domestic-partner health benefits to its employees. Today, the majority of Fortune 500 companies offer both sexual orientation and gender identity protections, as well as domestic-partner health benefits. The rapid increase in queer workplace equality can be attributed to a number of factors, most notably isomorphism.\n\nMimetic pressures, in which competing firms model the procedures of competitors, are especially visible in the adoption of domestic-partner benefits. For instance, after Wells Fargo and Bank of America adopted domestic-partner benefits in 1998, other banks, like Bankers Trust and Chase, soon followed voluntarily. These mimetic pressures are still visible today; in 2002, just two percent of Fortune 500 companies included gender identity in their non-discrimination policies, while in 2012, 57 percent of companies do so. \nMuch like these mimetic pressures, normative isomorphism, which stems from the professionalization of a practice, also helped diffuse equitable benefits. A 1991 Forbes story, \"Gay in Corporate America\", \"broke the longstanding silence of the business press regarding gay and lesbian issues\", beginning an important trend; diversity consultants and human resource professionals concluded through the 1990s that \"inclusion equals performance\".\nThough much progress has been made in the area of same-sex benefits, GLBT employees continue to face challenges in the workplace that their non-queer coworkers do not. According to a 2009 survey, 58 percent of GLBT employees say coworkers make jokes or derogatory comments about GLBT people \"at least once in a while\".\n\nBut perhaps the single greatest contributor to the GLBT experience in the workplace is the decision of employees to come out or remain closeted at work. Brian McNaught, a lauded leader of gay sensitivity training, explained the pressures that surround a decision, noting that \"gay people who have to worry about what will happen to them if they come out […] generally produce at a lower level than gay employees who don't\" as it takes much energy to \"put on a mask\"; 54 percent of closeted employees report \"lying about their personal lives in the past twelve months\". Non-GLBT employees are never required to make the conscious decision to share or hide the details of their personal lives, while GLBT employees make that very decision daily. Even with the added stress of the \"mask\", a 2009 survey concluded 51 percent of GLBT employees report hiding their GLBT identity to those at work.\n\nThese unique experiences have compounded to create significant concrete inequalities for GLBT workers in today's workplaces. For queer employees, there is an undeniable \"pink ceiling\"; not a single Fortune 1000 CEO is openly gay, and it is documented that being gay negatively impacts an employee's opportunity for promotion – 28 percent of gay employees remain closeted \"because they feel it may be an obstacle to career advancement or development opportunities\". Some of these fears are well founded; only 21 states and the District of Columbia currently have employment laws prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation – in many states it is thus perfectly legal to fire an employee for being gay.\n\nIn addition to these challenges, transgender employees also face many more. Though courts have recently concluded that transgenderism is a protected class under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, most notably in Smith v. City of Salem in 2004, courts still allow gender-specific dress and grooming codes, and are legally able to reject exemptions for transgender employees ; transgender employees thus often face the very difficult choice of complying with the dress code or dressing in the gender they present and potentially losing their jobs. For queer employees, workplace inequality thus remains a fact of life.\n\nThe \"Wall Street Journal\" came up with the term \"the glass ceiling\" to describe the barriers that women face in efforts to get promoted to top-tier positions within their corporations. Despite their qualifications (women constitute 58% of all university graduates), women make up less than 8% of the top corporate-level positions. Although many firms employ diversity programs aimed at reaching greater number of women in the field, women are still not reaching the top levels within their companies at the same rates as men. Many major investment banks in particular try to hire women whenever possible (refer to tokenism section). Recruiters, however, still inherently use statistical generalization: the stereotypical woman is more likely to leave her position sooner than a man due to family-related reasons means that women inherently face greater challenges to promotion when the opportunity arise.\n\nFinancial rewards often play a huge role in people's decisions to enter and stay in corporate firms, but their experiences there often explain why they left. The \"up-or-out\" system prevalent in many consulting firms can help to explain the male-dominated hierarchy; for women who require maternity leave their roles cannot be sustained in such an environment. While numerous firms support formal internal diversity initiatives, women are often also excluded from the informal networks that men partake in outside of the office, activities that revolve around a \"jock-talk\" atmosphere which bonds the men and helps create connections that are important when promotions become available. <br>\nMoreover, many Wall Street corporations are deeply rooted in their beliefs concerning gender norms and are said to cultivate machismo. In general, employees of professional firms tended toward homophily preferences, where they were drawn to coworkers similar to themselves. Thus, on Wall Street, just being a white, male junior colleague may to give you an advantage in promotional opportunities. At the same time, these practices also isolated those in the minority who felt a lack of support from their peers and superiors. In efforts to combat such prevailing culture, Wall Street firms have implemented equal opportunity guidelines, followed class action suits, placed diversity initiatives, and created grievance procedures.\n\nA preference for coworkers of similar features to oneself meant that managers often specifically selected individuals to share accounts and deals with; many times, this meant disadvantaging women and minorities for account allocations, performance evaluations and relative compensation. Connections made through informal networks often advantaged those individuals with better access to clients, accounts, and deals. Often, women are driven to switch fields within the business sector, for example from corporate finance to equity research, from heavily male-dominated to those that are more gender neutral. Such trade may result in substantial pay cuts, as the median earning in the new sector can be much lower than the median income in the old sector. <br>\nMoreover, mentorship can play an important role in one's experiences at a workplace. Many firms have formal mentorship programs to guide promising new junior employees. In cases where the mentorship starts informally (the senior partner does so without company dictation to do so) some junior employees will inherently have the advantage over their peers. This can often end disastrously for workers who are outside of the informal networks that can start such ties. It should be noted, however, that, on Wall Street specifically, there were many male senior executives who were committed to encouraging success from women junior executives, with 65% of women who had mentors noting their mentors were male.\n\nGender inequality in the workplace is experienced across many different industries and manifests itself in a multitude of different ways. For science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields specifically, varying workplace experiences among men and women can be attributed to differences in communication styles and social norms in the industry. Because STEM fields are so dominated by men, women working in these industries are often expected to act more masculine to be taken seriously. Furthermore, the lack of women steers the culture and social norms within many of these industries to become more \"masculine\" and therefore, many women don't have others to model themselves after and as a result feel that they have to change in order to \"fit in\".\n\nIn STEM industries, meetings and technical discussions are often very knowledge and experience based. In these settings, people with more dominant – and often perceived to be \"masculine\" – personas tend to drive and overpower the conversation because they sound more knowledgeable on a certain topic. This way of communication, often correlated with self-promotion, can put men and people with more masculine personas at an advantage because \"self-promotion is a stereotypically masculine communication style involving aggressive displays of confidence that assert one's own superiority\". And even though \"women's abilities to successfully self-promote are often inhibited by fear of backlash or social sanctions for counterstereotypical behavior\", women in technology often feel the need to be more masculine to have their voice heard.\n\nAnother way this manifests itself is in varying communication styles. A person with a \"competitive communication style\" may frequently interrupt others as a way of showing dominance. Studies have shown that interruptions are associated with masculinity as a meta-analysis of 43 studies found that men make more intrusive interruptions than women do. Therefore, because women are often more likely than men to be the ones interrupted, it causes women to feel inferior during a discussion. This leads to women feeling less competent in their technical abilities, and decreased productivity as they begin to feel like their opinions don't matter as much, leading to a negative work environment.\n\nAnother factor that creates the difference in experience for men and women in STEM fields is the social climate. The idea of the \"old boy culture\" is very much pertinent in male-dominated STEM fields where women find it difficult to fit in. Furthermore, female role models and mentors are rare for young women in these industries. Because mentors are very important in aiding in career development as well as building self-esteem in the workplace, the lack of female mentors inhibits the growth and success of women in STEM workplaces. These social factors lead to an environment that may not be inclusive towards women because women feel like they need to be \"one of the boys\" in order to be included.\n\nBecause of these social factors and the communication differences between men and women, the experience for women in STEM fields varies greatly from that of women in more gender-balanced or female-dominated industries.\n\nBeginning in the 1960s, the U.S. began to experience a significant change in the family division of labor. During the past several decades, the contributions of men to household tasks have risen considerably, increasing from about 15% to over 30% of the total housework, whereas the average daily contribution of working, married mothers has decreased by 2 hours. Despite these changes, there are still inequalities in the distribution of childcare and housework between men and women. Here we discuss several work-family ideologies, the ideology promoted by most American institutions, explanations for why this is the prevailing ideology, and implications of the resulting gendered division of labor.\n\nGenerally, the way in which labor is divided in the home is reflective of the work-family ideologies to which the husband and wife individually subscribe. Mary Blair-Loy identifies three of these ideologies: traditional, egalitarian, and transitional. The traditional family arrangement is the breadwinner-homemaker model of the 1950s in which women are expected to fully devote themselves to household management and childcare, while their husband's earn the family income. The egalitarian arrangement entails that the husband and wife be equally active at home and in the workforce. The transitional arrangement allows for both husband and wife to be engaged in the workforce, with the wife taking on the bulk of the homemaking responsibilities. Sociologist Arlie Hochschild calls the additional time spent on housework \"the second shift\" for women. Families that adopt the transitional arrangement often utilize full-time, paid childcare because the work of both parents demands long hours, even if the wife works only part-time.\n\nAlthough individuals subscribe to varying work-family ideologies, American institutions reflect a gendered division of labor that encourages women to be active in the domestic sphere and men in the workforce. There is a stigma associated with women working full-time, especially if they are married or have children, whereas men are expected to work full-time. These gender norms are particularly evident on Wall Street where men and women view either the breadwinner-homemaker model or full-time hired childcare as the answer if they choose to have children. Stay-at-home wives enable men to devote their time and energy to their careers. Even outside of Wall Street, many modern organizations assume that most families employ a traditional ideology although, statistically, this is no longer the norm.\n\nA number of explanations have been posited for the existence of a gendered division of labor. Gary Becker theorizes that women are more likely to leave the labor force or work part-time because they have a lower earning potential than men. Thus, it makes sense economically for men to focus on their careers if the family's aim is to maximize income and provide adequate childcare. There is some support for Becker's assertion. After all, men's earnings increase and women's decrease when they have children. However, equally plausible is the argument that these trends result from the cultural norms that sway potentially high-earning women toward home rather than toward work. An additional explanation is that some women simply enjoy and believe that they are well-suited for family caregiving.\n\nThe differential distribution of household work has significant implications. For example, most married mothers become economically dependent on their husbands, but the law does not grant them financial equality in marriage. This means that, in the case of divorce, mothers experience a dramatic drop in income. Moreover, the social safety net does not protect divorced or single mothers from poverty, and mothers are not eligible for unemployment insurance if they work part-time or at home. Clearly, the unequal distribution of housework and childcare has meaningful implications and warrants some discussion.\n\nThe family factor, especially for married women, is one of the reasons that leads to more mobile inclination for women than men in job market. The stereotype forces married women to undertake more family responsibilities than men, so women have no choice but to relocate workplaces for fulfilling the family needs. Compared with men who have more freedom to decide their workplaces, to move frequently in working system is obvious a disadvantage for women to improve their positions or to earn more income. On the other hand, men are more willing to relocate workplaces when their wives have better income, but not their wives' careers themselves, which means the power in family can also be transferred through women create more economic value than their husbands. This is the progress for women to develop their careers in recent years. Another source describes the variety of women's careers in their lifetime as \"snake-like\", meaning they move from job to job through their whole career lives flexibly. Compared with challenge of flexibility, this research provides a new idea that some women actually gain benefits by developing their own business to fulfill family needs.\n\nThe structure of today's family has evolved over the past decades from the \"traditional\" married, heterosexual couple to an increasing number of alternative family lifestyles. Non-traditional family units can include single-parent families, families with one biological parent and a step-parent, blended families, gay marriage families, and families where parents are absent and grandparents or other relatives take over parental roles. While all these non-traditional family lifestyles might present social challenges for the children as well as create undesirable career experiences, the two units that warrant the most consideration are the single-mother and same-sex partner lifestyles.\n\nThere are a number of ways that women become single mothers: divorce, outside marriage births, and partner death. Only recently did the United States see a spike in outside marriage births as well as divorce rates. In 30 years, the percentage of outside births has gone from under 20% to around 41%, with divorce rates being around 50%. Divorce rates peaked in 1980, at about 40% for first marriages; by the early 2000s the percentage had dropped to around 30%. Although the number of divorces is decreasing, they along with outside marriage births account for the growing single-mother population.\n\nSingle mothers are faced with a number of challenges primarily resulting from low income. On average, single parents account for between 15 and 40% of income inequality, earning an estimated average of $32,597, less than half of what the average married couple earns. Women's incomes on average are lower than men's due to \"occupational segregation\". These statistics indicate that a vast number of single-parent children grow up in poverty. Studies have shown children growing up in poverty are 66% less likely to rise out of poverty. Single mothers, although working long strenuous hours at these low-paying jobs, are still unable to cope with the financial burden of childcare. With the burden of single-motherhood becoming more and more of a prevalent issue, one would think that it would begin to be taken into serious consideration by the public. However, progress toward gender integration has slowed, childcare expenses are on the rise, housing isn't getting any cheaper and health care is still expensive.\n\nHomosexuals have faced much harassment as well as segregation in the workforce community. Individuals of different sexual orientations have been criticized, segregated and physically harassed for decades even within the labor community, a place which being homosexual should not reflect upon how well one performs a job. In fact, \"studies have shown that anywhere from 15 percent to 43 percent of gay people have experienced some form of discrimination and harassment in the workplace\". Discrimination and social stigmas can stymie a gay worker's upward mobility within the workforce, causing inequity in pay and advancement. These particular members of society come home to their partners and family similar to how a heterosexual male or female comes home to their families. However, these homosexual families are faced with ridicule by a majority of society. Children who are raised in a gay-marriage family are often faced with tougher social challenges because they are not in a more traditional family unit. Although most Americans now support same-sex marriage and \"60% of Fortune 500 companies [now] offer domestic partnership benefits\", the federal government still denies these couples \"1,138 federal benefits\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2832745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2832745", "title": "Oropolitics", "text": "Oropolitics\n\nOropolitics comes from the Greek \"oros\" meaning mountain and \"politikos\" meaning citizen. In modern usage it denotes the use and abuse of mountaineering for political purposes.\n\nThe term \"oropolitics\" was coined by Joydeep Sircar in the early 1980s to describe the surreptitious efforts, first by Pakistan from the 1950s, and then by India from the late 1970s, to demonstrate control and ownership of the Siachen Glacier by allowing or organising mountaineering expeditions to the high peaks such as Saltoro Kangri and Teram Kangri flanking the glacier. The Siachen War of 1984 was the direct outcome of these 'oropolitical' activities. Another example is the Chinese publication \"Raising the Five Star Flag on Mount Tomur\", an account of the successful Chinese expedition of 1977 to the Tien Shan peak better known by its Russian name as Pik Pobedy (nowadays renamed yet again by Kyrgyzstan as Jengish Chokusu). The Chinese volume seems to imply a first ascent and completely ignores multiple Russian ascents.\n\nThe strangest oropolitical events must surely be the unpublicised ascents of Nanda Devi and Nanda Kot by joint Indo-US expeditions in the 1960s to plant devices to monitor Chinese nuclear activity. The media disclosure in 1978 that an Indo-American covert expedition had planted a nuclear-fuelled monitoring device atop Nanda Kot in the 1960s, and that subsequently the device had disappeared, led to fears of radioactive contamination of the river Ganges, and a political brouhaha.\n\nRecent examples of oropolitics, again from India, were the claimed ascent of Nyegyi Kangsang (7047 m) and the attempt on the nearby peak Kangto (7090 metres) by Indian teams in the 1990s. Both are remote Arunachal Pradesh peaks difficult of access, located on or very close to the India-China border. These were as much sporting activities as visible demonstrations of de facto control of India over terrain claimed by China. It has been suggested that the actual summit of Nyegyi Kangsang was not even reached.\n\nA simmering dispute between China and Bhutan over Kula Kangri (7554? metres), which is possibly located wholly in Chinese territory, but is claimed by Bhutan to lie on the Bhutan-China border and be the highest peak of Bhutan, has clear oropolitical overtones. A Japanese team attempting nearby Gangkhar Puensum (7570? metres) on the Bhutan-China border in 1999 from the Chinese side stopped short of the true peak due to the King of Bhutan having prohibited ascent of the unclimbed main summit.\n"}
{"id": "55713173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55713173", "title": "Palmira N. Ríos", "text": "Palmira N. Ríos\n\nPalmira N. Ríos (born 1956) is an Afro-Puerto Rican academic who has worked as a professor in New York, the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico. She has served as a commissioner and president of the Puerto Rican Civil Rights Commission, the first person of color or woman to be appointed to the government body. After serving as the dean of the Graduate School of Public Administration for the University of Puerto Rico, she became the Dean of Academic Affairs for the Río Piedras Campus in 2015. The Bar Association of Puerto Rico honored Ríos with the Martin Luther King Jr.-Arturo Alfonso Schomburg Medal for her efforts to promote racial equality.\n\nPalmira N. Ríos González was born in 1956 in Puerto Rico to a family with African roots. She graduated with a degree in sociolology from the University of Puerto Rico in 1974 and went on to earn a master's degree from Fisk University the following year. Her thesis evaluated the administration of the Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago Eric Williams. She moved on to Yale University and became involved in the student organization, \"Despierta Boricua\" (Boricua Awakens), which actively worked to expand the rights of Latinos and people of color.\n\nWhile working on her doctorate at Yale in the 1980s, Ríos began teaching at the State University of New York and City University of New York. She published prolifically, evaluating the difficulties of effecting social change because of class, gender and race discrimination, with articles like \"Women under Colonialism: The Case of Puerto Rico\" (1985) and \"Puerto Rican Women in the US Labor Force\" (1985). Completing her PhD at Yale in 1990, with her dissertation, \"Women and Industrialization in Puerto Rico: Gender Division of Labor and the Demand for Female Labor in Manufacturing Sector, 1952–1980\", she began working as an associate professor in the urban planning department of The New School for Social Research. Later, she worked as a professor at the Santo Domingo Institute of Technology (INTEC) in the Dominican Republic.\n\nIn the 1990s, along with other academics, Ríos founded the Puerto Rican Institute of Studies in Race and Identity () to promote study and conversation on racism in the country. Through the activities of the institute, she began attending conferences on racism, participating in the United Nation's 3rd World Congress on Racism, held in Durban, South Africa. In 1995, Ríos became a research associate at the Graduate School of Public Administration at the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus. She was promoted to dean of the Graduate School in 2002 and the following year was appointed to serve on the Civil Rights Commission of Puerto Rico. Her appointment was the first for a person of color and a woman to serve as commissioner on the government body which investigates civil rights violations and complaints for the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico, serving as president of the commission from 2003 to 2008. She continued to serve on the commission until 2013 and in 2016 was honored with the Martin Luther King Jr.-Arturo Alfonso Schomburg Medal from the Bar Association of Puerto Rico for her efforts in promoting racial equality on the island.\n\nRíos continued to serve as dean of the Graduate School of Public Administration until 2015, when she was made Dean of Academic Affairs of the Río Piedras Campus. She has continued to serve on various governmental advisory councils, including the Land Use Advisory Council and the Transition Committee for the incoming government of Alejandro García Padilla. She continues to work in activism to promote the civil and human rights of migrants, the LGBT community, and improve racial relationships within society.\n\n"}
{"id": "10679950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10679950", "title": "Peaceworker", "text": "Peaceworker\n\nA peaceworker is an individual or member of an organization that undertakes to resolve violent conflict, prevent the rise of new violent conflicts, and rebuild societies damaged by war.\n\nThe term peaceworker is usually reserved for civilian, unarmed members of non-governmental organizations. Peacework is also carried out by many armed organizations such as the UN, but armed personnel are seldom called peaceworkers.\n\nPeaceworker duties include the following:\n\nPeaceworker training and guidance is provided by organizations such as International Alert. University-provided Peace and conflict studies courses also provide valuable and relevant knowledge. As peace work can utilize a very wide variety of skills, it allows those with established, unrelated careers to take up peace work without having to abandon what they have already learned.\n\n\nAny organization dedicated to human rights, humanitarian aid and conflict management could be said to employ peace workers. The following is just a small sample of the dozens of organizations worldwide that provide these services.\n\n"}
{"id": "469989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=469989", "title": "Progressive Party of Manitoba", "text": "Progressive Party of Manitoba\n\nThe Progressive Party of Manitoba, Canada, was a political party that developed from the United Farmers of Manitoba (UFM), an agrarian movement that became politically active following World War I. A successor to the Manitoba Grain Growers' Association, the UFM represented the interests of farmers frustrated with traditional political parties. \n\nUnlike the United Farmers, the Progressive Party of Manitoba never made any serious effort to cooperate with the labour politicians. The Winnipeg General Strike was unpopular among farmers, and the Progressive Party of Manitoba was not generally regarded as friendly to labour.\n\nA number of \"farmer candidates\" ran in Manitoba's provincial election of 1920. They were not an organized group, and had no pretensions of forming government; nevertheless, twelve of these candidates were elected—eight as supporters of the UFM, and four as independents. Had the UFM run a united campaign, it probably would have won the election.\n\nThe Independent-Farmers group was formed to represent the victorious candidates in the parliament which followed. This was never intended to be a permanent political organization, and dissolved when parliament broke up in 1922. The group's leader was William Robson, who did not seek re-election thereafter.\n\nThe United Farmers of Manitoba entered electoral politics in 1921, and ran an organized campaign in the 1922 election. However, expectations were still very low. They had no leader and a shoestring campaign budget, and only ran candidates in two-thirds of the province's ridings. Despite this, they won 28 out of 55 seats for a strong majority government. \n\nFaced with the task of selecting a leader who would become the province's new premier, the UFM asked John Bracken, president of the Manitoba Agricultural College, to become party leader and premier-designate. Once in government, Bracken's followers identified themselves as the Progressive Party of Manitoba, maintaining an affiliation with the UFM.\n\nBracken was a political outsider, and gave the party the technocratic credentials that it desired. The UFM supported the fading away of older political parties, to be replaced by a more \"management-centred\" approach to government. In later years, the Progressive Party would advocate \"non-partisan government\" for the province, via a series of alliances with other parties.\n\nIn 1928, the UFM decided to withdraw from politics and concentrate on being a service and lobbying organization. It became the Manitoba Federation of Agriculture. Part of the reason for separating the Progressive Party from the UFM was the perception that the government had a narrow base representing only farmers, rather than all Manitobans. \n\nPrior to the 1932 elections, Bracken's Progressives formed an alliance with the Manitoba Liberal Party. This occurred on the urging of federal Liberal leader William Lyon Mackenzie King, who was concerned that the Conservatives could form government in the province. The \"Liberal-Progressives\" were able to win a majority, and maintained their alliance after the election. Eventually, they would become a single party.\n\nThe Liberal-Progressive government was reduced to a minority in the 1936 elections. When early plans to bring the Conservatives into government failed, Bracken required support from the province's five Social Credit MLAs to continue. \n\nIn government, the Progressives were fiscally cautious. With the onset of the Great Depression, however, the government attempted to deal with unemployment by fostering a 'back to the land' movement, giving resettlement grants to move the unemployed from cities and town to the countryside.\n\nIn 1940, Bracken formed a wartime coalition government which included the Liberal-Progressives, the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation, Social Credit, and Conservatives. In 1942, Bracken left provincial politics to take over the leadership of what became the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada.\n\nStuart S. Garson took over as leader of the party and premier, and was himself replaced by Douglas Lloyd Campbell in 1948.\n\nThe Manitoba CCF left the coalition in 1943. The Conservatives had renamed their party the Progressive Conservative Party of Manitoba due to the change in name of the federal party, and despite not having any link with the Progressives. The Conservatives left the coalition in 1950 due to dissatisfaction with Campbell's leadership. \n\nAlthough the leadership of the party remained dominated by Progressives, the government was commonly referred to as \"Liberal\" during the 1940s and 1950s. Dufferin Roblin's Progressive Conservatives swept to victory of 1958. The Liberal-Progressives the party formally became known as the Manitoba Liberal Party in 1961.\n\n"}
{"id": "41775680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41775680", "title": "Proposed reforms of mass surveillance by the United States", "text": "Proposed reforms of mass surveillance by the United States\n\nProposed reforms of mass surveillance by the United States are a collection of diverse proposals offered in response to the Global surveillance disclosures of 2013.\n\nThe Amash–Conyers Amendment was a proposal to end the \"NSA's blanket collection of Americans' telephone records\", sponsored by Justin Amash and John Conyers. On July 24, 2013, the House rejected the amendment by a vote of 217 to 205.\n\nThe NSA Inspector General Act is a proposed bill introduced by Mark Sanford on October 30, 2013. It would \"require the Director of the National Security Agency and the Inspector General of the National Security Agency to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate\". Currently, the Inspector General is appointed by the Director of the NSA. Supporters of the bill argue that this arrangement \"curbs their oversight effectiveness because the Director can remove them.\"\n\nThe USA Freedom Act (, ) is a U.S. law enacted on June 2, 2015 that restored in modified form several provisions of the Patriot Act, which had expired the day before. The act imposes new limits on the bulk collection of telecommunication metadata on U.S. citizens by American intelligence agencies, including the National Security Agency. It also restores authorization for roving wiretaps and tracking lone wolf terrorists. \n\nThe title of the act originally was a ten-letter backronym (USA FREEDOM) that stood for Uniting and Strengthening America by Fulfilling Rights and Ending Eavesdropping, Dragnet-collection and Online Monitoring Act. The act was originally submitted on October 29, 2013 by Jim Sensenbrenner, author of the Patriot Act, and supported by Senator Patrick Leahy as . The bill's stated purpose is: \"To rein in the dragnet collection of data by the National Security Agency (NSA) and other government agencies, increase transparency of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC), provide businesses the ability to release information regarding FISA requests, and create an independent constitutional advocate to argue cases before the FISC.\"\n\nThe Act places new limits on the bulk collection of Americans' metadata, ends the secret laws created by the FISA court, and introduces a \"Special Advocate\" to represent public and privacy matters to the court.\n\nThe FISA Improvements Act is a proposed act by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee. Prompted by the disclosure of NSA surveillance by Edward Snowden, it would establish the surveillance program as legal, but impose some limitations on availability of the data. Opponents say the bill would codify warrantless access to many communications of American citizens for use by domestic law enforcement.\n\nA statement from multiple Sentators on the intelligence committee explains that \"this bill would codify the government's authority to collect the phone records of huge numbers of law-abiding Americans, and also to conduct warrantless searches for individual Americans' phone calls and emails.\"\n\nThe Fourth Amendment Restoration Act is a proposed bill introduced by Senator Rand Paul on June 7, 2013. It \"provides that the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution shall not be construed to allow any U.S. government agency to search the phone records of Americans without a warrant based on probable cause.\"\n\nThe Fourth Amendment Protection Acts, are a collection of state legislation aimed at bulk data collection. Specific examples include the \"Kansas Fourth Amendment Preservation and Protection Act\" and the Arizona Fourth Amendment Protection Act. They are proposed nullification laws. The proposals were made in 2013 and 2014 by legislators in the American states of Utah, Washington, Arizona, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and California. If enacted as law, they would prohibit the state governments from co-operating with the National Security Agency, whose mass surveillance efforts are seen as unconstitutional by the proposals' proponents. Some of the bills would require a warrant before information could be released, whereas others would\nforbid state universities from doing NSA research or hosting NSA recruiters.\n\nOn March 12, 2013, Director Clappert testified under oath before the Senate Intelligence Committee, the committee charged with oversight of intelligence agencies. In response to the query \"Does the NSA collect any type of data at all on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans?\" Clapper testified, \"No, sir.\" Senator Wyden pressed, \"It does not?\", to which Clapper testified \"Not wittingly. There are cases where they could inadvertently, perhaps, collect, but not wittingly.\"\n\nSix members of Congress authored a letter calling for a new Director of National Intelligence, writing:\n\n\"The continued role of James Clapper as director of national intelligence is incompatible with the goal of restoring trust in our security programs and ensuring the highest level of transparency. Director Clapper continues to hold his position despite lying to Congress under oath about the existence of bulk data collection programs in March 2013. Asking Director Clapper, and other federal intelligence officials who misrepresented programs to Congress and the courts, to report to you on needed reforms ... is not a credible solution.\"\nUnited States House of Representatives member Justin Amash has openly accused Clapper of criminal perjury. This sentiment has been echoed by Senator Rand Paul.\n\nSenator Ron Wyden publicly addressed the situation, saying:\n\nLet me start by saying that the men and women of America's intelligence agencies are overwhelmingly dedicated professionals, and they deserve to have leadership that is trusted by the American people. Unfortunately, that trust has been seriously undermined by senior officials' reckless reliance on secret interpretations of the law and battered by years of misleading and deceptive statements that senior officials made to the American people. These statements did not protect sources and methods that were useful in fighting terror. Instead, they hid bad policy choices and violation of the liberties of the American people.\n\nFor example, the director of the NSA said publicly that the NSA doesn't hold data on U.S. citizens. That was obviously untrue.\n\nJustice Department officials testified that Section 215 of the Patriot Act is analogous to grand jury subpoena authority, and that deceptive statement was made on multiple occasions.\n\nOfficials also suggested that the NSA doesn't have the authority to read Americans' e-mails without a warrant. But the FISA Court opinions declassified last August showed that wasn't true, either.\n\nThe Director of National Intelligence Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies was a review group formed in light of the Global Surveillance disclosure of 2013. In December 2013, the five-member group produced a public report.\n\nOn January 17, 2014, President Obama gave a public address on mass surveillance. He observed that \"totalitarian states like East Germany offered a cautionary tale of what could happen when vast unchecked surveillance turned citizens into informers and persecuted people for what they said in the privacy of their own homes.\" He continued,\"In fact, even the United States proved not to be immune to the abuse of surveillance. In the 1960s government spied on civil rights leaders and critics of the Vietnam War.\"\n\nHe proposed \"restricting the use\" of collected, but broadly endorsed the bulk data collection activities. Focussing \"on surveillance authorized by Congress and overseen by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court\" Obama said analysts querying the collection of domestic telephone logs from virtually every American under section 215 of the Patriot Act need first permission from a judge of the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court who must approve each phone number before said analysts can run a search on this number in the database. He also restricted the range of people who will potentially get caught in the section 215 telephony metadata database and ordered his advisers within 60 days to find a way how to move the database away from government control. The president asked Congress to convene a panel of public advocates to represent consumers before the FISA court and stated there'll be no spying on \"dozens\" of foreign heads of state or heads of government. Besides reforms aside from those affecting Section 215 include some \"protections applied to U.S. citizens abroad will also now be applied to foreign nationals. And companies will be able to make more disclosures about government data requests, including on National Security Letters, which will no longer be secret \"indefinitely.\"\"\nThe Washington Post noted that \"the changes he announced will allow [the NSA] to continue — or expand — the collection of personal data from billions of people around the world, Americans and foreign citizens alike.\"\n\nSen. Rand Paul criticized the remarks, saying:\nGeoff Neale stated on behalf of the Libertarian Party:\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation and The Day We Fight Back released a report card\" of President Obama's speech on NSA reform: \n\nThe Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB) is an independent agency within the executive branch. On January 25, the board released a \"Report on the Telephone Records Program Conducted under Section 215of the USA PATRIOT Act and on the Operations of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court\", a 238-page document on mass surveillance. A majority of the board \"deemed the spying illegal and is calling for it to be shut down\".\n\nThe International Principles on the Application of Human Rights to Communications Surveillance (also called the \"Necessary and Proportionate Principles\" or just \"the Principles\") are a collection of principles embodied in a July 2013 report on mass surveillance and human rights.\n\nOn December 9, 2013, eight tech giants issued an open letter and took out full-page advertisements to publish it. It read in part:\nDear Mr. President and Members of Congress,We understand that governments have a duty to protect their citizens. But this summer’s revelations highlighted the urgent need to reform government surveillance practices worldwide. The balance in many countries has tipped too far in favor of the state and away from the rights of the individual — rights that are enshrined in our Constitution. This undermines the freedoms we all cherish. It’s time for a change.\n\nGoogle, Microsoft, Apple, Yahoo!, Facebook, Twitter, AOL and LinkedIn participated in the open letter and the associated website. ReformGovernmentSurveillance.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "47707505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47707505", "title": "Real property", "text": "Real property\n\nIn English common law, real property, real estate, realty, or immovable property is land which is the property of some person and all structures (also called improvements or fixtures) integrated with or affixed to the land, including crops, buildings, machinery, wells, dams, ponds, mines, canals, and roads, among other things. The term is historic, arising from the now-discontinued form of action, which distinguished between real property disputes and personal property disputes. Personal property was, and continues to be, all property that is not real property.\n\nIn countries with personal ownership of real property, civil law protects the status of real property in real-estate markets, where estate agents work in the market of buying and selling real estate. Scottish civil law calls real property \"heritable property\", and in French-based law, it is called \"immobilier\" (\"immovable property\").\n\nThe word \"real\" derives from Latin \"res\" (\"thing\"), which was used in Middle English to mean \"relating to things, especially real property\".\n\nIn common law, real property was property that could be protected by some form of real action, in contrast to personal property, where a plaintiff would have to resort to another form of action. As a result of this formalist approach, some things the common law deems to be land would not be classified as such by most modern legal systems, for example an advowson (the right to nominate a priest) was real property. By contrast the rights of a leaseholder originate in personal actions and so the common law originally treated a leasehold as part of personal property.\n\nThe law now broadly distinguishes between real property (land and anything affixed to it) and personal property (everything else, e.g., clothing, furniture, money). The conceptual difference was between immovable property, which would transfer title along with the land, and movable property, which a person would retain title to.\n\nIn modern legal systems derived from English common law, classification of property as real or personal may vary somewhat according to jurisdiction or, even within jurisdictions, according to purpose, as in defining whether and how the property may be taxed.\n\nBethell (1998) contains much historical information on the historical evolution of real property and property rights.\n\nTo be of any value a claim to any property must be accompanied by a verifiable and legal property description. Such a description usually makes use of natural or manmade boundaries such as seacoasts, rivers, streams, the crests of ridges, lakeshores, highways, roads, and railroad tracks, and/or purpose-built markers such as cairns, surveyor's posts, fences, official government surveying marks (such as ones affixed by the National Geodetic Survey), and so forth. In many cases, a description refers to one or more lots on a plat, a map of property boundaries kept in public records.\n\nThe law recognizes different sorts of interests, called estates, in real property. The type of estate is generally determined by the language of the deed, lease, bill of sale, will, land grant, etc., through which the estate was acquired. Estates are distinguished by the varying property rights that vest in each, and that determine the duration and transferability of the various estates. A party enjoying an estate is called a \"tenant.\"\n\nSome important types of estates in land include:\n\n\nA tenant enjoying an undivided estate in some property after the termination of some estate of limited term, is said to have a \"future interest.\" Two important types of future interests are:\n\n\nEstates may be held jointly as joint tenants with rights of survivorship or as tenants in common. The difference in these two types of joint ownership of an estate in land is basically the inheritability of the estate and the shares of interest that each tenant owns.\n\nIn a joint tenancy with rights of survivorship deed, or JTWROS, the death of one tenant means that the surviving tenant(s) become the sole owner(s) of the estate. Nothing passes to the heirs of the deceased tenant. In some jurisdictions, the specific words \"with right of survivorship\" must be used, or the tenancy will assumed to be tenants in common without rights of survivorship. The co-owners always take a JTWROS deed in equal shares, so each tenant must own an equal share of the property regardless of his/her contribution to purchase price. If the property is someday sold or subdivided, the proceeds must be distributed equally with no credits given for any excess than any one co-owner may have contributed to purchase the property.\n\nThe death of a co-owner of a tenants in common (TIC) deed will have a heritable portion of the estate in proportion to his ownership interest which is presumed to be equal among all tenants unless otherwise stated in the transfer deed. However, if TIC property is sold or subdivided, in some States, Provinces, etc., a credit can be automatically made for unequal contributions to the purchase price (unlike a partition of a JTWROS deed).\n\nReal property may be owned jointly with several tenants, through devices such as the condominium, housing cooperative, and building cooperative.\n\nBundle of Rights:\nReal property is unique because there are multiple \"rights\" associated with each piece of property. For example, most U.S. jurisdictions recognized the following rights: right to sell, right to lease, right to acquire minerals/gas/oil/etc. within the land, right to use, right to possess, right to develop, etc. These multiple rights are important because the owner of the real property can generally do what he/she chooses with each right. For example, the owner could choose to keep all the rights but lease the right to dig for oil to an oil company. Or the owner could choose to keep all the rights but lease the property to a tenant. In other words, the owner can elect to keep and/or lease and/or sell the rights to his/her land.\n\nOther Ownership types:\n\nIn the law of almost every country, the state is the ultimate owner of all land under its jurisdiction, because it is the sovereign, or supreme lawmaking authority. Physical and corporate persons do not have allodial title; they do not own land but only enjoy estates in the land, also known as \"equitable interests.\"\n\nIn many countries the Torrens title system of real estate ownership is managed and guaranteed by the government and replaces cumbersome tracing of ownership. The Torrens title system operates on the principle of \"title by registration\" (i.e. the indefeasibility of a registered interest) rather than \"registration of title.\" The system does away with the need for a chain of title (i.e. tracing title through a series of documents) and does away with the conveyancing costs of such searches. The State guarantees title and is usually supported by a compensation scheme for those who lose their title due to the State's operation. It has been in practice in all Australian states and in New Zealand since between 1858 and 1875, has more recently been extended to strata title, and has been adopted by many states, provinces and countries, and in modified form in 9 states of the USA.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, The Crown is held to be the ultimate owner of all real property in the realm. This fact is material when, for example, property has been disclaimed by its erstwhile owner, in which case the law of escheat applies. In some other jurisdictions (not including the United States), real property is held absolutely.\n\nEnglish law has retained the common law distinction between real property and personal property, whereas the civil law distinguishes between \"movable\" and \"immovable\" property. In English law, real property is not confined to the ownership of property and the buildings sited thereonoften referred to as \"land.\" Real property also includes many legal relationships between individuals or owners of land that are purely conceptual. One such relationship is the easement, where the owner of one property has the right to pass over a neighboring property. Another is the various \"incorporeal hereditaments,\" such as \"profits-à-prendre\", where an individual may have the right to take crops from land that is part of another's estate.\n\nEnglish law retains a number of forms of property which are largely unknown in other common law jurisdictions such as the advowson, chancel repair liability and lordships of the manor. These are all classified as real property, as they would have been protected by real actions in the early common law.\n\nEach U.S. State except Louisiana has its own laws governing real property and the estates therein, grounded in the common law. In Arizona, real property is generally defined as land and the things permanently attached to the land. Things that are permanently attached to the land, which also can be referred to as \"improvements\", include homes, garages, and buildings. Manufactured homes can obtain an affidavit of affixture.\n\nLand use, land valuation, and the determination of the incomes of landowners, are among the oldest questions in economic theory. Land is an essential input (factor of production) for agriculture, and agriculture is by far the most important economic activity in pre-industrial societies. With the advent of industrialization, important new uses for land emerge, as sites for factories, warehouses, offices, and urban agglomerations. Also, the value of real property taking the form of man-made structures and machinery increases relative to the value of land alone. The concept of real property eventually comes to encompass effectively all forms of tangible fixed capital. with the rise of extractive industries, real property comes to encompass natural capital. With the rise of tourism and leisure, real property comes to include scenic and other amenity values.\n\nStarting in the 1960s, as part of the emerging field of law and economics, economists and legal scholars began to study the property rights enjoyed by tenants under the various estates, and the economic benefits and costs of the various estates. This resulted in a much improved understanding of the:\nFor an introduction to the economic analysis of property law, see Shavell (2004), and Cooter and Ulen (2003). For a collection of related scholarly articles, see Epstein (2007). Ellickson (1993) broadens the economic analysis of real property with a variety of facts drawn from history and ethnography.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6559242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6559242", "title": "Requetés", "text": "Requetés\n\nThe Requetés (, from the French \"requêté\", “hunting call”) were the Carlist militia during the Spanish Civil War. Wearing red berets, they mostly came from Navarre and were highly religious with many regarding the war as a Crusade. They were often accompanied by priests as field chaplains, who were known for risking their lives to perform the last rites on the battlefield and who also urged the men on. A Spanish encyclopedia of 1965 defines the Requetés:\n\nThe earliest use of the term was applied to the Third Battalion of Navarre (\"Tercer Batallón de Navarra\") in 1835 during the First Carlist War, and it was later applied generally to all Carlist combatants. \n\nThe Carlist \"Requetés\" had been receiving military training during the Second Spanish Republic. During the early and middle periods of the Spanish Civil War the Requeté units were well known as highly motivated and (comparatively) well trained assault troops for the nationalists. Carlist units were instrumental in several nationalist victories, notably during the tough fighting in and around the two northern provinces of the Basque Country, Biscay and Gipuzkoa, during the Northern Campaign in 1937. The negotiations with the conspiring generals were tough.\n\nBy July 1936, however, Carlism unanimously supported the far-right nationalist side on the Spanish Civil War. From the start there were serious troubles between the Carlists, especially their then political head Manuel Fal Conde, and the military government. On 8 December 1936, Manuel Fal had to leave temporarily for Portugal after a major clash with Franco.\n\nOn 19 April 1937, the Requetés' political branch was \"unified\" with the Falange Española Tradicionalista y de las Juntas de Ofensiva Nacional Sindicalista. Both the Falange and the regent, Prince Xavier of Bourbon-Parma, protested this move, and, after a meeting with Francisco Franco, Prince Xavier was expelled from Spain. Due to the necessities of the war, actions against the Unification did not go much further, but it meant the loss of all material wealth of the party: buildings, newspapers, etc. Many Carlists refused to join the new party and violence between the factions broke out at the Basilica of Begoña on August 16, 1942, when Falangists attacked a Carlist crowd with grenades, causing many injuries and several deaths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52975690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52975690", "title": "Robert Kezaala", "text": "Robert Kezaala\n\nDr. Robert Kezaala is a medical doctor, epidemiologist, scholar and public health leader in the field of immunization and health emergencies. Currently he is serving as a Senior Health Advisor and team lead for Accelerated Immunization Initiatives: measles, rubella, epidemic meningitis and yellow fever control and Immunization in Emergencies at the United Nations Children’s Fund.\n\nDr. Kezaala received his medical degree from Makerere University in Kampala, Uganda. He also holds an MPH from the Royal Tropical Institute (KIT) in Amsterdam, Netherlands majoring in epidemiology and health planning.\n\nDr. Kezaala has over 30 years of professional experience in public health including 24 years at international level. In the late 1980s, Dr. Kezaala practiced as Medical Officer in Karamoja province in the northeast of Uganda with recognized work in immunization and Tuberculosis control. From 1992 to 1993, Dr Kezaala worked with UNDP in multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS control where he managed the collaborative program that supported Uganda government efforts to address the AIDS epidemic. Thereafter, until 1998, he worked with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) as Regional Health Delegate for Eastern and Southern Africa, managing a variety of health interventions including HIV/AIDS control, community water and sanitation and refugee health and emergency response when he led IFRC's initial health response in Goma during the 1994 Rwanda crisis. Subsequently, he joined the World Health Organization (WHO), where he worked for 14 years, first as epidemiologist and Team Lead for WHO-EPI in Ethiopia. From 2001 to 2005, Dr. Kezaala headed Measles Control for the Africa Region of WHO, when the Africa region registered a reduction in measles mortality by 70%. He spent the next seven years serving as a medical officer with the Polio Eradication Initiative at the WHO headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. While here, he worked in country support across the globe, including Chad, Pakistan, the Horn of Africa and served as the outbreak response manager for the 2010 Polio outbreak that affected Tajikistan, Kazakhstan and Russia. During the stint in GPEI, Dr Kezaala developed the Short Interval Additional Dose (SIAD) tactical approach that has since become a standard for Polio outbreak response. In 2012, Dr Kezaala served as WHO liaison officer to the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in setting up the Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) for CDC's global Polio Eradication Initiative. Since June 2012, Dr Kezaala has served as Senior Health Advisor at the UNICEF headquarters in New York in charge of the Accelerated Immunization Initiatives - responsible for Measles and Rubella control, Yellow Fever, epidemic Meningitis and immunization in emergency settings. In 2016, he was instrumental as liaison officer to WHO in the response to the central Africa Yellow Fever outbreak that affected Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo. \n\nNumerous news outlets and reports such as U.S. News, CNN, TV2Africa, allAfrica have quoted Dr. Kezaala. He is also a thought leader in topics related to public health, vaccines, health diplomacy and on Uganda.\n"}
{"id": "1605200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1605200", "title": "Salt", "text": "Salt\n\nSalt, table salt or common salt is a mineral composed primarily of sodium chloride (NaCl), a chemical compound belonging to the larger class of salts; salt in its natural form as a crystalline mineral is known as rock salt or halite. Salt is present in vast quantities in seawater, where it is the main mineral constituent. The open ocean has about of solids per litre, a salinity of 3.5%.\n\nSalt is essential for life in general, and saltiness is one of the basic human tastes. Salt is one of the oldest and most ubiquitous food seasonings, and salting is an important method of food preservation.\n\nSome of the earliest evidence of salt processing dates to around 6,000 B.C., when people living in the area of present-day Romania boiled spring water to extract salts; a salt-works in China dates to approximately the same period. Salt was also prized by the ancient Hebrews, the Greeks, the Romans, the Byzantines, the Hittites, Egyptians, and the Indians. Salt became an important article of trade and was transported by boat across the Mediterranean Sea, along specially built salt roads, and across the Sahara on camel caravans. The scarcity and universal need for salt have led nations to go to war over it and use it to raise tax revenues. Salt is used in religious ceremonies and has other cultural and traditional significance.\n\nSalt is processed from salt mines, and by the evaporation of seawater (sea salt) and mineral-rich spring water in shallow pools. Its major industrial products are caustic soda and chlorine; salt is used in many industrial processes including the manufacture of polyvinyl chloride, plastics, paper pulp and many other products. Of the annual global production of around two hundred million tonnes of salt, about 6% is used for human consumption. Other uses include water conditioning processes, de-icing highways, and agricultural use. Edible salt is sold in forms such as sea salt and table salt which usually contains an anti-caking agent and may be iodised to prevent iodine deficiency. As well as its use in cooking and at the table, salt is present in many processed foods.\n\nSodium is an essential nutrient for human health via its role as an electrolyte and osmotic solute. Excessive salt consumption may increase the risk of cardiovascular diseases, such as hypertension, in children and adults. Such health effects of salt have long been studied. Accordingly, numerous world health associations and experts in developed countries recommend reducing consumption of popular salty foods. The World Health Organization recommends that adults should consume less than 2,000 mg of sodium, equivalent to 5 grams of salt per day.\n\nAll through history, the availability of salt has been pivotal to civilization. What is now thought to have been the first city in Europe is Solnitsata, in Bulgaria, which was a salt mine, providing the area now known as the Balkans with salt since 5400 BC. Even the name Solnitsata means \"salt works\".\n\nWhile people have used canning and artificial refrigeration to preserve food for the last hundred years or so, salt has been the best-known food preservative, especially for meat, for many thousands of years. A very ancient salt-works operation has been discovered at the Poiana Slatinei archaeological site next to a salt spring in Lunca, Neamț County, Romania. Evidence indicates that Neolithic people of the Precucuteni Culture were boiling the salt-laden spring water through the process of briquetage to extract the salt as far back as 6050 BC. The salt extracted from this operation may have had a direct correlation to the rapid growth of this society's population soon after its initial production began. The harvest of salt from the surface of Xiechi Lake near Yuncheng in Shanxi, China, dates back to at least 6000 BC, making it one of the oldest verifiable saltworks.\n\nThere is more salt in animal tissues, such as meat, blood, and milk, than in plant tissues. Nomads who subsist on their flocks and herds do not eat salt with their food, but agriculturalists, feeding mainly on cereals and vegetable matter, need to supplement their diet with salt. With the spread of civilization, salt became one of the world's main trading commodities. It was of high value to the ancient Hebrews, the Greeks, the Romans, the Byzantines, the Hittites and other peoples of antiquity. In the Middle East, salt was used to ceremonially seal an agreement, and the ancient Hebrews made a \"covenant of salt\" with God and sprinkled salt on their offerings to show their trust in him. An ancient practice in time of war was salting the earth: scattering salt around in a defeated city to prevent plant growth. The Bible tells the story of King Abimelech who was ordered by God to do this at Shechem, and various texts claim that the Roman general Scipio Aemilianus Africanus ploughed over and sowed the city of Carthage with salt after it was defeated in the Third Punic War (146 BC).\nSalt may have been used for barter in connection with the obsidian trade in Anatolia in the Neolithic Era. Salt was included among funeral offerings found in ancient Egyptian tombs from the third millennium BC, as were salted birds, and salt fish. From about 2800 BC, the Egyptians began exporting salt fish to the Phoenicians in return for Lebanon cedar, glass, and the dye Tyrian purple; the Phoenicians traded Egyptian salted fish and salt from North Africa throughout their Mediterranean trade empire. Herodotus described salt trading routes across Libya back in the 5th century BC. In the early years of the Roman Empire, roads were built for the transportation of salt from the salt imported at Ostia to the capital. \n\nIn Africa, salt was used as currency south of the Sahara, and slabs of rock salt were used as coins in Abyssinia. Moorish merchants in the 6th century traded salt for gold, weight for weight. The Tuareg have traditionally maintained routes across the Sahara especially for the transportation of salt by Azalai (salt caravans). The caravans still cross the desert from southern Niger to Bilma, although much of the trade now takes place by truck. Each camel takes two bales of fodder and two of trade goods northwards and returns laden with salt pillars and dates. In Gabon, before the arrival of Europeans, the coast people carried on a remunerative trade with those of the interior by the medium of sea salt. This was gradually displaced by the salt that Europeans brought in sacks, so that the coast natives lost their previous profits; as of the author's writing in 1958, sea salt was still the currency best appreciated in the interior.\n\nSalzburg, Hallstatt, and Hallein lie within of each other on the river Salzach in central Austria in an area with extensive salt deposits. Salzach literally means \"salt river\" and Salzburg \"salt castle\", both taking their names from the German word meaning salt and Hallstatt was the site of the world's first salt mine. The town gave its name to the Hallstatt culture that began mining for salt in the area in about 800 BC. Around 400 BC, the townsfolk, who had previously used pickaxes and shovels, began open pan salt making. During the first millennium BC, Celtic communities grew rich trading salt and salted meat to Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome in exchange for wine and other luxuries.\n\nThe word \"salary\" comes from the Latin word for salt. The reason for this is unknown; a persistent modern claim that the Roman Legions were sometimes paid in salt is baseless. The word \"salad\" literally means \"salted\", and comes from the ancient Roman practice of salting leaf vegetables.\n\nWars have been fought over salt. Venice fought and won a war with Genoa over the product, and it played an important part in the American Revolution. Cities on overland trade routes grew rich by levying duties, and towns like Liverpool flourished on the export of salt extracted from the salt mines of Cheshire. Various governments have at different times imposed salt taxes on their peoples. The voyages of Christopher Columbus are said to have been financed from salt production in southern Spain, and the oppressive salt tax in France was one of the causes of the French Revolution. After being repealed, this tax was reimposed by Napoleon when he became emperor to pay for his foreign wars, and was not finally abolished until 1945. In 1930, Mahatma Gandhi led at least 100,000 people on the \"Dandi March\" or \"Salt Satyagraha\", in which protesters made their own salt from the sea thus defying British rule and avoiding paying the salt tax. This civil disobedience inspired millions of common people and elevated the Indian independence movement from an elitist movement to a national struggle.\n\nSalt is mostly sodium chloride, the ionic compound with the formula NaCl, representing equal proportions of sodium and chlorine. Sea salt and freshly mined salt (much of which is sea salt from prehistoric seas) also contain small amounts of trace elements (which in these small amounts are generally good for plant and animal health ). Mined salt is often refined in the production of table salt; it is dissolved in water, purified via precipitation of other minerals out of solution, and re-evaporated. During this same refining process it is often also iodized. Salt crystals are translucent and cubic in shape; they normally appear white but impurities may give them a blue or purple tinge. The molar mass of salt is 58.443 g/mol, its melting point is 801 °C (1,474 °F) and its boiling point 1,465 °C (2,669 °F). Its density is 2.17 grams per cubic centimetre and it is readily soluble in water. When dissolved in water it separates into Na and Cl ions, and the solubility is 359 grams per litre. From cold solutions, salt crystallises as the dihydrate NaCl·2HO. Solutions of sodium chloride have very different properties from those of pure water; the freezing point is −21.12 °C (−6.02 °F) for 23.31 wt% of salt, and the boiling point of saturated salt solution is around 108.7 °C (227.7 °F).\n\nSalt is essential to the health of humans and other animals, and it is one of the five basic taste sensations. Salt is used in many cuisines around the world, and it is often found in salt shakers on diners' eating tables for their personal use on food. Salt is also an ingredient in many manufactured foodstuffs. Table salt is a refined salt containing about 97 to 99 percent sodium chloride. Usually, anticaking agents such as sodium aluminosilicate or magnesium carbonate are added to make it free-flowing. Iodized salt, containing potassium iodide, is widely available. Some people put a desiccant, such as a few grains of uncooked rice or a saltine cracker, in their salt shakers to absorb extra moisture and help break up salt clumps that may otherwise form.\n\nSome table salt sold for consumption contain additives which address a variety of health concerns, especially in the developing world. The identities and amounts of additives vary widely from country to country. Iodine is an important micronutrient for humans, and a deficiency of the element can cause lowered production of thyroxine (hypothyroidism) and enlargement of the thyroid gland (endemic goitre) in adults or cretinism in children. Iodized salt has been used to correct these conditions since 1924 and consists of table salt mixed with a minute amount of potassium iodide, sodium iodide or sodium iodate. A small amount of dextrose may also be added to stabilize the iodine. Iodine deficiency affects about two billion people around the world and is the leading preventable cause of mental retardation. Iodized table salt has significantly reduced disorders of iodine deficiency in countries where it is used.\n\nThe amount of iodine and the specific iodine compound added to salt varies from country to country. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends [21 CFR 101.9 (c)(8)(iv)] 150 micrograms of iodine per day for both men and women. US iodized salt contains 46–77 ppm (parts per million), whereas in the UK the iodine content of iodized salt is recommended to be 10–22 ppm.\n\nSodium ferrocyanide, also known as yellow prussiate of soda, is sometimes added to salt as an anticaking agent. The additive is considered safe for human consumption. Such anticaking agents have been added since at least 1911 when magnesium carbonate was first added to salt to make it flow more freely. The safety of sodium ferrocyanide as a food additive was found to be provisionally acceptable by the Committee on Toxicity in 1988. Other anticaking agents sometimes used include tricalcium phosphate, calcium or magnesium carbonates, fatty acid salts (acid salts), magnesium oxide, silicon dioxide, calcium silicate, sodium aluminosilicate and calcium aluminosilicate. Both the European Union and the United States Food and Drug Administration permitted the use of aluminium in the latter two compounds.\n\nIn \"doubly fortified salt\", both iodide and iron salts are added. The latter alleviates iron deficiency anaemia, which interferes with the mental development of an estimated 40% of infants in the developing world. A typical iron source is ferrous fumarate. Another additive, especially important for pregnant women, is folic acid (vitamin B), which gives the table salt a yellow color. Folic acid helps prevent neural tube defects and anaemia, which affect young mothers, especially in developing countries.\n\nA lack of fluorine in the diet is the cause of a greatly increased incidence of dental caries. Fluoride salts can be added to table salt with the goal of reducing tooth decay, especially in countries that have not benefited from fluoridated toothpastes and fluoridated water. The practice is more common in some European countries where water fluoridation is not carried out. In France, 35% of the table salt sold contains added sodium fluoride.\n\nUnrefined sea salt contains small amounts of magnesium and calcium halides and sulfates, traces of algal products, salt-resistant bacteria and sediment particles. The calcium and magnesium salts confer a faintly bitter overtone, and they make unrefined sea salt hygroscopic (i.e., it gradually absorbs moisture from air if stored uncovered). Algal products contribute a mildly \"fishy\" or \"sea-air\" odour, the latter from organobromine compounds. Sediments, the proportion of which varies with the source, give the salt a dull grey appearance. Since taste and aroma compounds are often detectable by humans in minute concentrations, sea salt may have a more complex flavor than pure sodium chloride when sprinkled on top of food. When salt is added during cooking however, these flavors would likely be overwhelmed by those of the food ingredients. The refined salt industry cites scientific studies saying that raw sea and rock salts do not contain enough iodine salts to prevent iodine deficiency diseases.\n\nDifferent natural salts have different mineralities depending on their source, giving each one a unique flavour. Fleur de sel, a natural sea salt from the surface of evaporating brine in salt pans, has a unique flavour varying with the region from which it is produced. In traditional Korean cuisine, so-called \"bamboo salt\" is prepared by roasting salt in a bamboo container plugged with mud at both ends. This product absorbs minerals from the bamboo and the mud, and has been claimed to increase the anticlastogenic and antimutagenic properties of doenjang (a fermented bean paste).\n\nKosher or kitchen salt has a larger grain size than table salt and is used in cooking. It can be useful for brining, bread or pretzel making and as a scrubbing agent when combined with oil. \n\nPickling salt is made of ultra-fine grains to speed dissolving to make brine. Gourmet salts may be used for specific tastes.\n\nSalt is present in most foods, but in naturally occurring foodstuffs such as meats, vegetables and fruit, it is present in very small quantities. It is often added to processed foods (such as canned foods and especially salted foods, pickled foods, and snack foods or other convenience foods), where it functions as both a preservative and a flavoring. Dairy salt is used in the preparation of butter and cheese products. Before the advent of electrically powered refrigeration, salting was one of the main methods of food preservation. Thus, herring contains 67 mg sodium per 100 g, while kipper, its preserved form, contains 990 mg. Similarly, pork typically contains 63 mg while bacon contains 1,480 mg, and potatoes contain 7 mg but potato crisps 800 mg per 100 g. Salt is also used in cooking, such as with salt crusts. The main sources of salt in the Western diet, apart from direct use of sodium chloride, are bread and cereal products, meat products and milk and dairy products.\n\nIn many East Asian cultures, salt is not traditionally used as a condiment. In its place, condiments such as soy sauce, fish sauce and oyster sauce tend to have a high sodium content and fill a similar role to table salt in western cultures. They are most often used for cooking rather than as table condiments.\n\nTable salt is made up of just under 40% sodium by weight, so a 6g serving (1teaspoon) contains about 2,300mg of sodium. Sodium serves a vital purpose in the human body: via its role as an electrolyte, it helps nerves and muscles to function correctly, and it is one factor involved in the osmotic regulation of water content in body organs (fluid balance). Most of the sodium in the Western diet comes from salt. The habitual salt intake in many Western countries is about 10 g per day, and it is higher than that in many countries in Eastern Europe and Asia. The high level of sodium in many processed foods has a major impact on the total amount consumed. In the United States, 75% of the sodium eaten comes from processed and restaurant foods, 11% from cooking and table use and the rest from what is found naturally in foodstuffs.\n\nBecause consuming too much sodium increases risk of cardiovascular diseases, health organizations generally recommend that people reduce their dietary intake of salt. High sodium intake is associated with a greater risk of stroke, total cardiovascular disease and kidney disease. A reduction in sodium intake by 1,000 mg per day may reduce cardiovascular disease by about 30 percent. In adults and children with no acute illness, a decrease in the intake of sodium from the typical high levels reduces blood pressure. A low sodium diet results in a greater improvement in blood pressure in people with hypertension.\n\nThe World Health Organization recommends that adults should consume less than 2,000 mg of sodium (which is contained in 5g of salt) per day. Guidelines by the United States recommend that people with hypertension, African Americans, and middle-aged and older adults should limit consumption to no more than 1,500 mg of sodium per day and meet the potassium recommendation of 4,700 mg/day with a healthy diet of fruits and vegetables.\n\nWhile reduction of sodium intake to less than 2,300 mg per day is recommended by developed countries, one review recommended that sodium intake be reduced to at least 1,200 mg (contained in 3g of salt) per day, as a further reduction in salt intake the greater the fall in systolic blood pressure for all age groups and ethinicities. Another review indicated that there is inconsistent/insufficient evidence to conclude that reducing sodium intake to lower than 2,300 mg per day is either beneficial or harmful.\n\nOne of the two most prominent dietary risks for disability in the world is eating too much sodium.\n\nOnly about 6% of the salt manufactured in the world is used in food. Of the remainder, 12% is used in water conditioning processes, 8% goes for de-icing highways and 6% is used in agriculture. The rest (68%) is used for manufacturing and other industrial processes, and sodium chloride is one of the largest inorganic raw materials used by volume. Its major chemical products are caustic soda and chlorine, which are separated by the electrolysis of a pure brine solution. These are used in the manufacture of PVC, plastics, paper pulp and many other inorganic and organic compounds. Salt is also used as a flux in the production of aluminium. For this purpose, a layer of melted salt floats on top of the molten metal and removes iron and other metal contaminants. It is also used in the manufacture of soaps and glycerine, where it is added to the vat to precipitate out the saponified products. As an emulsifier, salt is used in the manufacture of synthetic rubber, and another use is in the firing of pottery, when salt added to the furnace vaporises before condensing onto the surface of the ceramic material, forming a strong glaze.\n\nWhen drilling through loose materials such as sand or gravel, salt may be added to the drilling fluid to provide a stable \"wall\" to prevent the hole collapsing. There are many other processes in which salt is involved. These include its use as a mordant in textile dying, to regenerate resins in water softening, for the tanning of hides, the preservation of meat and fish and the canning of meat and vegetables.\n\nFood-grade salt accounts for only a small part of salt production in industrialized countries (7% in Europe), although worldwide, food uses account for 17.5% of total production.\n\nIn 2013, total world production of salt was 264 million tonnes, the top five producers being China (71 million), the United States (40 million), India (18 million), Germany (12 million) and Canada (11 million).\nThe manufacture of salt is one of the oldest chemical industries. A major source of salt is seawater, which has a salinity of approximately 3.5%. This means that there are about of dissolved salts, predominantly sodium () and chloride () ions, per kilogram (2.2 lbs) of water. The world's oceans are a virtually inexhaustible source of salt, and this abundance of supply means that reserves have not been calculated. The evaporation of seawater is the production method of choice in marine countries with high evaporation and low precipitation rates. Salt evaporation ponds are filled from the ocean and salt crystals can be harvested as the water dries up. Sometimes these ponds have vivid colours, as some species of algae and other micro-organisms thrive in conditions of high salinity.\n\nElsewhere, salt is extracted from the vast sedimentary deposits which have been laid down over the millennia from the evaporation of seas and lakes. These are either mined directly, producing rock salt, or are extracted in solution by pumping water into the deposit. In either case, the salt may be purified by mechanical evaporation of brine. Traditionally, this was done in shallow open pans which were heated to increase the rate of evaporation. More recently, the process is performed in pans under vacuum. The raw salt is refined to purify it and improve its storage and handling characteristics. This usually involves recrystallization during which a brine solution is treated with chemicals that precipitate most impurities (largely magnesium and calcium salts). Multiple stages of evaporation are then used to collect pure sodium chloride crystals, which are kiln-dried. Some salt is produced using the Alberger process, which involves vacuum pan evaporation combined with the seeding of the solution with cubic crystals, and produces a grainy-type flake. The Ayoreo, an indigenous group from the Paraguayan Chaco, obtain their salt from the ash produced by burning the timber of the Indian salt tree (\"Maytenus vitis-idaea\") and other trees.\n\nOne of the largest salt mining operations in the world is at the Khewra Salt Mine in Pakistan. The mine has nineteen storeys, eleven of which are underground, and of passages. The salt is dug out by the room and pillar method, where about half the material is left in place to support the upper levels. Extraction of Himalayan salt is expected to last 350 years at the present rate of extraction of around 385,000 tons per annum.\n\nSalt has long held an important place in religion and culture. At the time of Brahmanic sacrifices, in Hittite rituals and during festivals held by Semites and Greeks at the time of the new moon, salt was thrown into a fire where it produced crackling noises. The ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans invoked their gods with offerings of salt and water and some people think this to be the origin of Holy Water in the Christian faith. In Aztec mythology, Huixtocihuatl was a fertility goddess who presided over salt and salt water.\n\nSalt is considered to be a very auspicious substance in Hinduism and is used in particular religious ceremonies like house-warmings and weddings. In Jainism, devotees lay an offering of raw rice with a pinch of salt before a deity to signify their devotion and salt is sprinkled on a person's cremated remains before the ashes are buried. Salt is believed to ward off evil spirits in Mahayana Buddhist tradition, and when returning home from a funeral, a pinch of salt is thrown over the left shoulder as this prevents evil spirits from entering the house. In Shinto, salt is used for ritual purification of locations and people (harae, specifically shubatsu), and small piles of salt are placed in dishes by the entrance of establishments for the two-fold purposes of warding off evil and attracting patrons.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, there are thirty-five verses which mention salt. One of these mentions Lot's wife, who was turned into a pillar of salt when she looked back at the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah (Genesis 19:26) as they were destroyed. When the judge Abimelech destroyed the city of Shechem, he is said to have \"sown salt on it,\" probably as a curse on anyone who would re-inhabit it (Judges 9:45). The Book of Job contains the first mention of salt as a condiment. \"Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt? or is there any taste in the white of an egg?\" (Job 6:6). In the New Testament, six verses mention salt. In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus referred to his followers as the \"salt of the earth\". The apostle Paul also encouraged Christians to \"let your conversation be always full of grace, seasoned with salt\" (Colossians 4:6). Salt is mandatory in the rite of the Tridentine Mass. Salt is used in the third item (which includes an Exorcism) of the Celtic Consecration (\"cf.\" Gallican Rite) that is employed in the consecration of a church. Salt may be added to the water \"where it is customary\" in the Roman Catholic rite of Holy water.\n\nIn Judaism, it is recommended to have either a salty bread or to add salt to the bread if this bread is unsalted when doing Kiddush for Shabbat. It is customary to spread some salt over the bread or to dip the bread in a little salt when passing the bread around the table after the Kiddush. To preserve the covenant between their people and God, Jews dip the Sabbath bread in salt.\n\nIn Wicca, salt is symbolic of the element Earth. It is also believed to cleanse an area of harmful or negative energies. A dish of salt and a dish of water are almost always present on an altar, and salt is used in a wide variety of rituals and ceremonies.\n"}
{"id": "273588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273588", "title": "Schwartz set", "text": "Schwartz set\n\nIn voting systems, the Schwartz set is the union of all Schwartz set components. A Schwartz set component is any non-empty set \"S\" of candidates such that\n\nA set of candidates that meets the first requirement is also known as an undominated set.\n\nThe Schwartz set provides one standard of optimal choice for an election outcome. Voting systems that always elect a candidate from the Schwartz set pass the Schwartz criterion. The Schwartz set is named for political scientist Thomas Schwartz.\n\n\nThe Schwartz set is closely related to and is always a subset of the Smith set. The Smith set is larger if and only if a candidate in the Schwartz set has a pairwise tie with a candidate that is not in the Schwartz set.\nFor example, given:\nthen we have A pairwise beating B, B pairwise beating C, and A tying with C in their pairwise comparison, making A the only member of the Schwartz set, while the Smith set on the other hand consists of all the candidates.\n\nThe Schwartz set can be calculated with the Floyd–Warshall algorithm in time Θ(\"n\") or with a version of Kosaraju's algorithm in time Θ(\"n\").\n\nThe Schulze method always chooses a winner from the Schwartz set.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6806151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6806151", "title": "Sheldon Chumir", "text": "Sheldon Chumir\n\nSheldon Mervin Chumir (December 3, 1940 – January 26, 1992) was a lawyer and politician from Alberta, Canada.\n\nSheldon Chumir was born in Calgary. He studied law at the University of Alberta, from which he graduated in 1963 with the gold medal. He continued his education as a Rhodes Scholar and earned a Bachelor of Letters degree from Oxford University in 1965.\n\nChumir began his professional career as a tax lawyer with the federal Department of Justice in Toronto. In 1971, he joined a Calgary law firm. In 1976, he launched his own private practice focusing on civil liberties cases which on occasion provided representation on a pro-bono basis. He lectured on civil liberties and human rights at the University of Calgary Law School and founded the Calgary Civil Liberties Association. He was also an entrepreneur; he founded a small oil and gas company, co-founded the entertainment promotion firm Brimstone Productions and engaged in real estate.\n\nIn 1983, he ventured into activism by creating Save Public Education, an organization which opposed public funding of religious schools. The group ran a successful slate of candidates in a Calgary Board of Education election. \n\nIn the 1986 Alberta general election, he ran as a Liberal in the riding of Calgary Buffalo and defeated incumbent Brian Lee of the Progressive Conservative Party. He was among the first four Liberals elected to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta since 1969. In the Assembly, he advocated on legal affairs, human rights, energy, finance and community service, and he advocated legislation that supported human rights and civil liberties. He was re-elected in 1989.\n\nChumir died in 1992. Having no close kin, he had set up his estate to establish the Sheldon Chumir Foundation for Ethics Leadership. As a politician and human rights lawyer Chumir was an advocate for human rights and believed ethical values are fundamental to a healthy society. The foundation was intended to advocate for leadership and legislature to further the advancement of democratic legislation and social reform. The foundation offers internships and scholarships for students studying the field of Leadership and Law, publishes material pertaining to civil rights, and supports initiatives in the community.\n\nThe Sheldon M. Chumir Centre, an eight-story medical facility named in honor of Chumir, opened in Calgary in April 2008. The facility includes an Urgent Care Centre, Mental Health clinic, Diagnostic Imaging department and the Southern Alberta HIV Clinic.\n\nChumir was called one of Alberta's New Mavericks by Jamie Komarnicki of the \"Calgary Herald\", who in Chumir's obituary described him as a \"soft-spoken man with a quirky sense of humour [who] was a determined champion of public education and individual freedoms.\"\n\nIn 2012, Chumir was posthumously honored by the Calgary Stampede Foundation with the centennial edition of the Western Legacy Award. This unique edition award recognized contributions of 100 Calgarians and their services to Calgary.\n\n"}
{"id": "17081779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17081779", "title": "Squirrel (debate)", "text": "Squirrel (debate)\n\nA squirrel is a term in debating jargon, particularly in parliamentary debate, that indicates a definition from the side of the opening speaker that makes it too easy for his or her side. The first speaker in a debate, who is defending the motion or proposition, generally has to define the terms used in the motion. When this definition is done in an unexpected way, it can favour the opening side, because that side had been able to prepare for the particular interpretation in the preparation time. For example, if the motion read \"This House Would dissolve the police\", it would be a squirrel to refer to the band The Police instead of the police. Another squirrel in this case, that helps the opening side by making the debate generally easier for them, is to add unreasonable exceptions to the motion. For example, defending \"dissolving the police\" except in cases where it has to \"uphold the law\" is rather easy.\n\nIn competitive debating, judges usually consider a squirrel a negative thing. There is, however, no clear standard on what constitutes a squirrel, and the judges have to decide this on their own. Sometimes the other side in the debate tries to notify the judges of the squirrel. A notable example is the so-called \"open motion\" debate, where debaters are expected to come up with their own far-fetched interpretation of an ambiguous motion.\n\nA squirrel can also refer to an affirmative so obscure that there is no known negative against it. These cases are rare and will typically win the round for the affirmative team.\n\nDeane, A. \"The Debating Handbook\" pp. 10. Britishdebate.com. Accessed on 11 June 2008.\n"}
{"id": "40934110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40934110", "title": "State Border Guard Service (Kyrgyz Republic)", "text": "State Border Guard Service (Kyrgyz Republic)\n\nThe State Border Guard Service of the Kyrgyz Republic also commonly known as the Kyrgyz Frontier Force is the border guard of the Kyrgyz Republic. It is currently a Public Service department of the government of the republic and is not part of any ministries.\n\nUpon its independence in 1992, Kyrgyzstan took command over the former Soviet Republic's directorate of the KGB's Central Asian Border Troops District which was part of the wider Soviet Border Troops, that numbered at about 2,000 mostly Russian troops. However in late 1992, Russia established a joint Kyrgyzstani-Russian Border Troop Command, which effectively brought the border protection responsibilities under Russian command again. The borders of Kyrgyzstan with post-Soviet states were thus mostly unguarded as the Russian Border Troops mostly concentrated on guarding the borders facing countries such as Afghanistan and China. In August 1999, the duties of border protection was finally transferred from the Border Guard Service of Russia to the Kyrgyzstani government, which would eventually set the basis for the future State Border Guard Service and the tightening of its borders with the neighbouring countries.\n\nOn 31 August 2002, the State Border Guard Service of the Kyrgyz Republic was officially established from a merger of the Main Border Guard Directorate of the Ministry of Defense and the Main Directorate of Border Control of the National Security Service, so as to have a more centralised system. Over the subsequent few years, the border guard service would be transferred to and removed from the command of the National Security Service for several times by presidential decree till on 4 September 2012, it was permanently established as an independent Public Service department within the government of the Kyrgyz Republic. Despite the similarities in the scope of work covered, the service is not under the command of the Ministry of Interior Affairs of the republic, neither is it part of the military of Kyrgyzstan. \n\nSince the independence of the republic, it has had many disagreements and even confrontations with the border service of neighbouring countries, including those of Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Several land border crossings with neighbouring countries have also not been consistently opened as a result. The border guard service has also because of the disagreements, taken steps to train and upgrade itself. For example in 2013, the border service took part in a joint military drill with China on the two countries' borders. Additionally it has also requested and received training and equipment from China and Turkey.\n\nAs the border guard of the Kyrgyz Republic, its primary duty is to protect the territorial integrity of the republic by ensuring that all the borders of the republic are not compromised, be it by other nation states or criminal elements. The border guard does so by deploying troops to patrol and monitor its borders at all times by varying means. A combination of high altitude, rough terrain and an usually high number of exclaves in the republic makes border policing even more difficult. Its secondary role is to assist in immigration formalities at all entry and exit checkpoints in the country, including those at land border crossings and airports. It works together with the State Customs Service in customs formalities too.\n\nBorder Guards Day is a holiday celebrated in the republic by active and ex-servicemen of the border guard service. The holiday has its roots from the Soviet times and is still celebrated on May 28. The day is set for the public to also pay tribute and understand the importance of the border guard service in the republic. The date of the holiday was shifted to October 29 in 2003 but due to appeals from the veterans of the service, was shifted back to its original date from 2005.\n\nOn 20 August 2012, at the Echilitash frontier outpost that served as the Issyk-Kul border units command headquarters, 19-year-old Kyrgyz border guard Kulbarak Balbai in a state of desertion fired at his fellow servicemen with a rifle instantly killing four; the outpost commander, senior soldier, warrant officer and junior soldier. A fifth visiting civilian wife of one of the guards was also killed as a result of the gunshot fire. The three other Kyrgyz guards who occupied the border crossing outpost fled in a car upon hearing the shooting take place in the main building. Kulbarak later fled the scene in a stolen car and was confronted in a nearby gorge the next day while attempting to defect to Uzbekistan. A firefight ensued between police officials and the gunman, eventually leading to Kulbarak's death. The motive although unknown is believed to be \"hazing\", which is the bullying of younger servicemen.\n"}
{"id": "51639190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51639190", "title": "Statspolitiet", "text": "Statspolitiet\n\nStatspolitiet (shortened STAPO) was from 1941 to 1945 a National Socialist armed police force that consisted of Norwegian officials after Nazi German pattern. It operated independently of the ordinary Norwegian police. The force was established on June 1, 1941 during the German occupation of Norway. The initiative for the force came from the later chief Karl Marthinsen and other prominent members of the collaborationist party Nasjonal Samling. At its peak, in 1944 there were 350 employees in Statspolitiet, in addition to a larger number who collaborated or rendered services for them. Its purpose was primarily to combat so-called \"political crimes\", refugees, espionage, sabotage, armed resistance and other kinds of resistance against the German occupation forces or the Norwegian collaborationist Quisling regime. Statspolitiet played an important role during the Holocaust in Norway, aiding in the deportation of the Jews in Norway. Norwegians were arrested by contemporary laws, and many were later sent to prison camps in Norway and concentration camps in what was then Germany. Statspolitiet was organized with a headquarters in Oslo and six subsidiaries in Oslo and Aker, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim, Tromsø and Kirkenes. Statspolitiet was subordinate to the chief of the security police and the Norwegian Minister of Police, Jonas Lie. Statspolitiet also received orders directly from the German Sicherheitspolizei. The general of Statspolitiet, Karl A Marthinsen was liquidated by the Norwegian resistance movement on 8 February 1945. This caused massive reprisals, in which 34 imprisoned resistance fighters were executed at Akershus Fortress.\n\nAfter the German capitulation on May 8, 1945, Statspolitiet was disbanded immediately. Former officers of Statspolitiet were arrested and tried in Norwegian courts, and were found guilty of varying degrees of such crimes as treason, illegal detention, torture, maltreatments, murders and illegal executions. The punishments were harsh and included the use of capital punishment. The death sentences for the Statspolitiet officers Reidar Haaland, Arne Saatvedt, Hans Jacob Skaar Pedersen, Holger Tou, Ole Wehus, Olav Aspheim and Einar Dønnum were fulfilled, the officers being executed by firing squad.\n"}
{"id": "22612299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22612299", "title": "Swardspeak", "text": "Swardspeak\n\nSwardspeak (also known as Bekimon, gayspeak, Bekinese or \"gay lingo\") is an argot or cant slang derived from Taglish (Tagalog-English code-switching) and used by a number of LGBT people and allied straight people in the Philippines.\n\nSwardspeak uses elements from Tagalog, English, Spanish, and some from Japanese, as well as celebrities' names and trademark brands, giving them new meanings in different contexts. It is largely localized within gay communities, making use of words derived from the local languages and/or dialects, including Cebuano, Hiligaynon, Kapampangan, Pangasinan, Waray and Bicolano.\n\nA defining trait of swardspeak slang is that it more often than not immediately identifies the speaker as homosexual, making it easy for people of that orientation to recognize each other. This creates an exclusive group among its speakers and helps them resist cultural assimilation. More recently, though, even non-members of the gay community use this way of speaking, particularly heterosexual members of industries dominated by gays, such as the fashion and film industries. \n\nBy using swardspeak, Filipino LGBT+ people are able to resist the dominant culture of their area and create a space of their own. The language is constantly changing, with old phrases becoming obsolete and new phrases frequently entering everyday usage, reflecting changes in their culture and also maintaining exclusivity. The dynamic nature of the language refuses to cement itself in a single culture and allows for more freedom of expression among its speakers. Words and phrases can be created to react to popular trends and create alternatives to a strictly defined lifestyle. By these characteristics, swardspeak creates a dissident group without any ties to geographical, linguistic, or cultural restrictions, thus allowing its speakers to shape the language as appropriate to the times. In this way, the language is not only \"mobile\" and part of a larger community, but also open to more specific or local meanings.\n\nGay people who speak the language almost exclusively are humorously called \"Bekimons\" (a contraction of \"Baklang Jejemon\", 'Gay Jejemons'). Swardspeak is also spoken by \"babaeng bakla\", women who associate exclusively or mostly with gay men (literally 'gay women', though they are actually heterosexual).\n\nThe word \"Swardspeak\", according to José Javier Reyes, was coined by columnist and film critic Nestor Torre in the 1970s. Reyes himself wrote a book on the subject entitled \"Swardspeak: A Preliminary Study\". \"Sward\" is an outdated slang for 'gay male' in the Philippines. The origin of the individual words and phrases, however, has existed longer and come from a variety of sources.\n\nSwardspeak is a form of slang (and therefore highly dynamic, as opposed to colloquialisms) that is built upon preexisting languages. It deliberately transforms or creates words that resemble words from other languages, particularly English, Japanese, Chinese, Spanish, Portuguese, French, and German. It is colorful, witty, and humorous, with vocabularies derived from popular culture and regional variations. It is unintelligible to people not familiar with the Filipino gay culture or who do not know the rules of usage. There is no standardized set of rules, but some of the more common conventions are shown below:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29927675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29927675", "title": "Twelve Generals' Letter", "text": "Twelve Generals' Letter\n\nThe Twelve Generals' Letter () was an open letter, signed by twelve generals of the Croatian Armed Forces, that criticized the government, politicians and media for perceived criminalization of the Croatian War of Independence and asserted that war veterans had suffered undignified treatment. On 29 September 2000, a day after the letter was published by the Croatian media, Croatian President Stjepan Mesić reacted by sending into forced retirement all seven of the signatories who were active-duty officers. The affair was a source of significant controversy in Croatia and is considered one of the key events in Mesić's ten-year presidential incumbency.\n\nCroatia underwent major political changes in late 1999 – early 2000. The first President of Croatia and leader of the ruling Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ), Franjo Tuđman, died in office in December 1999. In January 2000 Tuđman's HDZ, a nationalist party that had ruled Croatia since independence in 1991, lost power in the parliamentary elections and was replaced by a center-left coalition of six parties. Stjepan Mesić, one of Tuđman's fiercest critics, won the presidential elections in the same month.\n\nThe new liberal and pro-European government began to investigate war crimes committed by Croatian forces in the Croatian War of Independence (1991–1995), aiming to improve cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) in the Hague. These developments enraged the war veterans' groups and extreme nationalists.\n\nAfter a key whistleblower and war crime witness Milan Levar was murdered on 28 August 2000, a wave of arrests of war crime suspects followed. In response, veterans' groups organized protests that escalated into threats and violence. An anonymous death threat was sent to President Mesić and Prime Minister Račan.\n\nThe new government also started a cycle of defense reforms, which aroused further concern among high-ranking officers of the Croatian Army who were themselves war veterans.\n\nThe letter was titled \"An Open Letter of Croatian Generals to the Croatian Public\" () and organized into six points.\n\nThe first point noted \"with bitterness\" that a significant proportion of media and politicians spoke of the Croatian War of Independence as \"something bad, problematic, even shameful, while in fact it was the foundation of Croatia's freedom, independence and sovereignty\".\n\nThe signatories stressed in the second point that they were not against the sanctioning of individual criminal acts. However, they asserted that recent actions by the police had left the impression of a crackdown on terrorism or organized crime, rather than an act of a democratic country within the rule of law, in accord with the actual circumstances and the dignity of war veterans and Croatian Army officers.\n\nThe third point denounced what the signatories called an \"unnecessary show of force\" and presumptions of guilt, including speculation about indictments by the ICTY, deeming them detrimental to tolerance and democracy in Croatia.\n\nThe fourth point rejected conflicts, violence and terrorism, which the signatories deemed to not be in the interests of \"anyone responsible\", war veterans in particular.\n\nThe fifth point comprised a comment by the signatories on speculation regarding the reorganisation of the Croatian Army. They declared their support for the promotion of the most educated and most capable individuals, \"which means those who proved themselves in the Croatian War of Independence\".\n\nIn the sixth and final point, the signatories urged the government, civil society and the media to \"resist the negativist, historically incorrect and untrue portrayals of the Croatian War of Independence\" and to \"protect the dignity of Croatian officers and soldiers\" as the foundations of Croatian freedom and independence, as well as the future of a democratic and prosperous Croatia.\n\nThe letter was signed by General of the Army (ret.) Janko Bobetko, Lt. Gen. Ante Gotovina, Lt. Gen. Krešimir Ćosić, Maj. Gen. Mirko Norac, Admiral Davor Domazet-Lošo, Maj. Gen. (ret.) Ivan Korade, Maj. Gen. Damir Krstičević, Lt. Gen. (ret.) Ivan Čermak, Maj. Gen. Ivan Kapular, Maj. Gen. (ret.) Nojko Marinović, Lt. Gen. (ret.) Ivan Basarac and Maj. Gen. Miljenko Filipović.\n\nIn his first public comment on the letter, Croatian President Stjepan Mesić noted that he also supported preserving the dignity of the Croatian War of Independence, provided \"that the government is still functioning, that there is no selective approach, and that the law applies to everyone\". He said that some individuals from the HDZ were responsible for the letter's creation.\n\nThe Office of the President of Croatia and the Croatian Ministry of Defense called the letter \"inappropriate\". The Ministry of Defence also described it as \"unprofessional\", noting that the law forbids the members of Croatian Armed Forces from engaging in political activities.\n\nOn 29 September 2000, a day after the letter was published, President Mesić announced that he was retiring all seven serving officers (Gotovina, Ćosić, Krstičević, Kapular, Filipović, Domazet-Lošo and Norac) who signed the letter. He stated that \"those who thought a \"coup d'état\" in this country could be achieved with pamphlets have played the wrong card. As of today, they are not members of the Croatian Army.\"\n\nMesić's actions produced widely varied reactions from the political parties. The ruling coalition parties generally supported the move, calling it \"logical\", and even \"necessary\", while Ivo Sanader, president of the HDZ, criticized it as \"extremely dangerous\". Mesić was also severely criticised by Croatian war veterans' organisations. On the other hand, polls showed that the majority of Croatian public supported the President's actions.\n\nAn article by \"Nacional\" weekly warned that twenty more generals were planning to sign a letter against the government, which created concern about an actual coup. President Mesić, however, dismissed such speculations as \"nonsense\".\n\nOn several occasions it was speculated that the retired generals might return to active duty. On 2 October 2000, President Mesić hinted that his decision might not yet be final for Maj. Gen. Krstičević, stating that Krstičević's fate depended on \"his further conduct\". At 33 years of age, he was the youngest among the signatories, and was – apart from Nojko Marinović – the only general from the Tuđman era with no party affiliation. Krstičević declined Mesić's implicit offer, saying that he had \"nothing to repent for\".\n\nIn the 2003 election campaign, Ivo Sanader, president of the HDZ, announced the possibility of reactivating the generals. However, according to \"Nacional\" weekly, Sanader abandoned the idea due to his inability to implement it against the wish of President Mesić, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.\n\nThe issue was raised again in the 2009/2010 presidential election. Three presidential candidates, Milan Bandić, Andrija Hebrang and Nadan Vidošević, stated that, if elected, they would rehabilitate the generals and return some of them to active duty. The eventual winner of the election, Ivo Josipović, rejected this suggestion, saying that the generals' retirement was final.\n\nMesić's decision to retire the generals is widely seen as one of the most important events of his presidency. Stjepan Mesić's successor Ivo Josipović stated that this was Mesić's best move in both of his five-year terms, while Croatian military analyst Igor Tabak described it as a \"hard decision to take\", since it came early in the Mesić's first term, and went against an old authoritarian system that was still strong. The move is seen as important in the context of the depoliticisation of the armed forces and defence reforms that ultimately led to the accession of Croatia to NATO in 2009. On the other hand, Mesić's critics contend that the supposed \"coup\" was non-existent and that his decision was essentially a continuation of anti-military sentiment which the generals had to publicly address as their patriotic duty.\n\n"}
{"id": "49931354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49931354", "title": "Ukrainian Choice", "text": "Ukrainian Choice\n\nAll-Ukrainian Social Movement \"Ukrainian Choice\" (Russian: Всеукраинское общественное движение «Украинский выбор», Ukrainian: Всеукраїнський громадський рух «Український вибір») is a pro-Russian and explicitly Anti-Ukrainian and anti-Semitic NGO in Ukraine. It was initiated by and is led by the business tycoon Viktor Medvedchuk. \n\nThe organization was founded in April 2012 and is noticed to oppose European Union and NATO membership of Ukraine and would prefer instead Ukraine's membership in Eurasian Economic Space. The group also wants \"decentralization of power followed by the transition to a federal structure, while maintaining the territorial integrity and unity of Ukraine\".\n\nUkrainian Choice also emphasizes Slavic Orthodox values: in July, 2013, it organized a conference on the topic \"Orthodox-Slavic values - the basics of the civilizational choice of Ukraine\", where Vladimir Putin held a speech. (Putin is the godfather of Medvedchuk's 2004 born daughter Darina).\n\nAccording to The New York Times the group aimed at stopping former president Viktor Yanukovych to sign Ukraine's Association Agreement with the European Union. In a leaked June 2013 Russian-ordered consultation document, whose contents has been corroborated by a former security source in Ukraine, the Russian government wanted Ukrainian Choice to influence public opinion. At the time Medvedchuk and the organization had marginal popular support in Ukraine.\n\nIn the fall of 2013 Ukrainian Choice ran an aggressive anti-gay ad campaign warning against decayed values in the Western world. Some of the ads claimed that association with the European Union would mean the legalization of same-sex marriage. At the time Medvedchuk described the European Union as the modern heir to the Third Reich.\n\nDuring annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation in March 2014, the organization organized blockage of Ukrainian military logistics.\n\nEx-president of Ukraine Leonid Kravchuk has stated that \"The \"Ukrainian Choice\" is not a Ukrainian choice, but a choice of Russia in Ukraine\".\n"}
{"id": "26759046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26759046", "title": "Union of Persecutees of the Nazi Regime", "text": "Union of Persecutees of the Nazi Regime\n\nThe Association of Persecutees of the Nazi Regime/Federation of Antifascists (\"Vereinigung der Verfolgten des Naziregimes – Bund der Antifaschistinnen und Antifaschisten\") (VVN-BdA) is a confederation founded in 1947 and based in Berlin. The VVN-BdA, formerly the VVN, emerged from victims' associations in Germany founded by political opponents to Nazism after the Second World War and the end of the Nazi dictatorship.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the VVN was the subject of political struggles between East and West Germany. In the West, the association was seen as dominated by the Communist Party (KPD); in the East, the VVN was accused of spying. In 1953, the VVN was abolished in the GDR and the Committee of Antifascist Resistance Fighters was founded in its place.\n\nSince 2002, the association has extended to cover the whole of Germany, including camp communities of former prisoners of the concentration camps as incorporated associations. The VVN-BdA claims to be the biggest antifascist organisation in the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nThe VVN-BdA is characterised as an independent organisation, with a focus of resistance against fascism and war as its defining moral principle. In West Germany, the organisation was seen as taking its lead from the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) in the 1950s, and after 1968 of being controlled from the top by German Communist Party (DKP) members. Nevertheless, the spread of membership continues to come from a wide range of political elements, including orthodox communists, members of the party Die Linke, and political independents, along with Green Party members and Social Democrats (in spite of a dissenting resolution adopted by the Social Democratic Party (SPD), which remained in force till October 25, 2010).\n\nThe VVN-BdA is a member of the Fédération Internationale des Résistants (International Federation of Resistance Fighters), along with organisations from all over Europe and from Israel.\n\nWith the end of World War II, self-help groups of former resistance fighters were founded in \"anti-fascist committees\", which were banned immediately by the military administrations of each of the four occupation zones. They supported attending to 200,000 up to 250,000 former political persecutees by the social administrations instead.\n\nBy June 26, 1945, an \"association of political prisoners and persecutees of the Nazi system\" had been founded in Stuttgart, and in the following weeks and months, there were regional groups of ex-political prisoners and other persecuted individuals formed with the permission of the allied forces, in each of the four occupation zones. Their concern, next to providing social help for those in need, was to bring the voice of resistance, the political and moral weight of the opponents of the Nazi regime to form a new anti-fascist, democratic Germany.\n\nThe initiative for the VVN came from representatives of the labour parties, which had committees that provided direct assistance to people persecuted or victimised by the Nazis, whether political, religious, or racially based.\nIt set out to be a multi-party organisation, an umbrella group for everyone, regardless of political affiliation, according to its manifesto in August 1946.\n\nRepresentatives from all the regional organisations in the four occupied zones met in Frankfurt am Main from July 20–22, 1946 and adopted a charter for the \"Society of People Persecuted by the Nazi Regime\". On October 26, 1946, the first state organisations was founded in Düsseldorf, North Rhine-Westphalia. Others soon followed.\n\nFrom March 15–17, 1947, the 1st Inter-zonal States Conference of the VVN convened in Frankfurt am Main with 68 delegates from all four of the occupied zones and the city of Berlin and formed an organisation representing all of Germany, with a similarly constituted council and two co-chairmen at the helm.\n\nOn the territory of the Soviet occupation zone, the SMAD orders no. 28 from January, 28th, 1947, and no. 92 from April, 22nd, 1947 put the compensation on solid formal ground. The SMAD order no. 228 from July, 30th, 1946 nullified the judgements in political proceedings of the Nazis and therefore made judicial rehabilitations easier; later decrees on regaining the German citizenship made the returning to Germany easier for expatriated emigrants. A similar, but however hesitant development was pursued by the administrations in the western occupation zones.\n\nThe \"red triangle\", the sign sewn on the concentration camp uniforms of political prisoners, was adopted as the symbol for the VVN. The aim of the organisation was to support former prisoners, but the founding VVN members uniformly did not want to limit themselves to just this purpose. Having experienced terror personally, they wanted to be true to the Buchenwald Oath, to never again let fascism become a reality, \"Our motto is the extermination of Nazism to its roots. Our goal is the creation of a new world of peace and freedom.\"\n\nThe political confrontation of the cold war affected the VVN heavily. Kurt Schumacher, leader of the SPD, declared a resolution of incompatibility (\"Unvereinbarkeitsbeschluss\") for Social Democrats, which has been abolished on October 25, 2010. Nonetheless, many SPD members remained in the VVN. Prominent Nazi opponents, such as Eugen Kogon, who were close to the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) resigned from the VVN for political reasons. These actions led to a political narrowing of the VVN, although the organization continued to seek out all Nazi opponents and victims of persecution.\n\nIn 1949 and 1950, the Stalinist purges had repercussions in the Soviet occupation zone, later to become the German Democratic Republic (GDR), with the SED accusing leading members of the VVN of being agents of the west. At the same time, in connection with the Rudolf Slánský trial in the former Czechoslovakia, the policies of the GDR leadership began to evidence an increasing anti-semitism toward the Jewish Communists who had fled to western countries after 1933. Julius Meyer, an SED member and elected member of the People's Chamber, Hans Freund and other Jewish members of the VVN fled to West Germany in December 1952 and January 1953 because of the threat of persecution. Even Leo Zuckerman, a former state secretary and co-author of the GDR constitution, fled to the west.\n\nWithout the consultation of the VVN, the decision was made on January 15, 1953 to dissolve the organization. The VVN's publishing house was dissolved and in its place the Committee of Anti-fascist Resistance Fighters (\"Komitee der antifaschistischen Widerstandskämpfer\") was set up. The overnight dissolution of the VVN met little opposition from within the organization itself. The Committee maintained close contact with the VVN in the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG).\n\nIn 1990, after the democratic revolution in the GDR, the Association of Former Participants of the Anti-Fascist Resistance, Persecutees and Survivors (\"Interessenverband ehemaliger Teilnehmer am antifaschistischen Widerstand, Verfolgter des Naziregimes und Hinterbliebener\") (IVVdN) took over as successor to the Committee. In October 2002, the IVVdN merged with the West German VVN, forming one organization for all of Germany.\n\nThe Communists had a major influence within the organization. The organization was led by the SED and DKP till the German reunification in 1989. In 1989, all state chairmen, nearly all the main employees, as well as two-thirds of the membership of the national board and the steering committee were all members of the DKP.\n\nThe political scope during the founding years was distinctly limited by the Cold War. Compounding that, were the declaration of incompatibility by the SPD in May 1948 and the resignation of prominent Nazi adversaries Eugen Kogon, Heinz Galinski and Philipp Auerbach, which all caused the VVN to be viewed in public discourse as a \"Communist front organization\". Public servants risked dismissal if they remained members of the VVN, despite being survivors of Nazi terror.\n\nThe splits and resignations resulted in a numerical and political dominance of left-wing members. Former Communist Resistance fighters found in the VNN a political forum in which they could to meet legally while the KPD itself was legally banned.\n\nA number of Bundesländer tried to ban the VVN during the 1950s. A judicial ruling forced Lower Saxony to lift its ban and in Hamburg, \"VAN\" was left as a \"replacement\" organization, but in Rhineland-Palatinate, the ban remained in effect. At the end of the 1950s, the federal government went to federal court to establish a ban against the VVN at the national level. The opening of the trial erupted into political scandal when it was revealed that the presiding judge, Senate President Prof. Dr. Werner had been an aggressive Nazi, resulting in the discontinuation of the case. The anti-communist climate continued to plague members of the VVN during the postwar era, though in sight of constitutional protection and during the 1970s, they were at times criticized by radicals.\n\nFrom the outset, the VVN concerned itself with care for the victims of Nazi injustice, as well as the admonition and remembrance of the crimes of National Socialism. This included, for example, social counseling according to the federal law on compensation for victims of Nazi persecution, which came into force in 1956, but was retroactive to October 1, 1953. One section of the statute was problematic for VVN members, however. It excluded payments from anyone who advocated communism.\n\nSince the 1960s, among the VVN's key spheres of political activity has been confrontation of old and new Nazis. The VVN has worked against SS reunions, against the National Democratic Party, and against Auschwitz denial and other forms of revisionist history.\n\nA crucial step was the May 1971 expansion of the organization to include the \"Association of Anti-fascists\". This extended the possibility of membership beyond just the persecuted and their family members, to young who have felt a bond with concentration camp survivors and their legacy. The broadening of the VVN changed the organization considerably during the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nAfter September 1950, government employees were prohibited from joining the VVN and the Bundesregierung tried to ban the organization itself in 1951. On August 2, 1951, the police closed the VVN offices in Frankfurt am Main. Following that, came prohibitions in the states of Hamburg and Rhineland-Palatinate. Other states did not follow suit, though in Bavaria, there was an attempt, which ended with a finding by the Administrative Court in Regensburg that the VVN was not anti-constitutional. The federal government made another attempt to ban the organization in 1959, but the Federal Administrative Court of Germany broke off the process after two hearings.\n\nThe ban was repealed in Hamburg in 1960 and in Rhineland-Palatinate in 1972.\n\nMembers of the VVN were involved in a number of debates after the war. They fought against reinstalling old Nazis as office holders, against the reemergence of Nazi organizations, against the plan to re-arm Germany, against atomic armament and against the white-washing of German history from 1933 to 1945. Initiatives of the VVN led to the erection of memorial sites, such as the development of Dachau concentration camp into a noteworthy memorial site in the mid-1960s, a project with which VVN members were significantly involved.\n\nIn 1971, the VVN expanded itself to include the \"Bund der Antifaschisten\" (Federation of Anti-fascists). In the wake of the student protests of 1968 and the growth of the right-wing extremist National Democratic Party (NPD), many young people became interested in the debate over Germany's Nazi past. The organization was also faced with a graying and declining membership and needed to invigorate itself with newer, younger members. Key themes of the 1970s and 1980s were the peace movement and anti-fascism.\n\nIn 1989, it became officially known that most of the VVN's work at the federal level was financed through funds from the DDR. With the end of this funding, came a financial crisis that brought VVN to the brink of dissolution. The full-time staff had to be laid off. According to the 1989 Verfassungsschutzbericht of Lower Saxony (page 26), until the fall of communism, all applications for full-time VVN employees had been reviewed and approved by the Chairman of the German Communist Party (DKP). The president and secretariat of the national board of the VVN-BdA resigned in January 1990. The organization then voted to continue the work with reduced means and a new organizational structure.\n\nThe absence of funding by the DDR opened the door for non-dogmatic influence; the Union became open to unaffiliated anti-fascists.\n\nIn October 2002, the West German VVN-BdA in Berlin merged with the East German \"Interessenverband ehemaliger Teilnehmer am antifaschistischen Widerstand, Verfolgter des Naziregimes und Hinterbliebener\" (Interest Group of Former Participants in the Anti-Fascist Resistance, Persecutees of the Nazi Regime, and Survivors) and the \"Bund der Antifaschisten\" (Federation of Anti-Fascists). Following the mergers, the organization's membership was around 9,000.\n\nRepresentatives of domestic and foreign organizations of former persecutees, as well as guests of German organizations took part in the unification congress. Among them was Horst Schmitthenner, executive board member of IG Metall, who emphatically welcomed the VVN merger and declared, \"As in the past, IG Metall will support the vital work of the VVN-BdA.\"\n\nThe VVN-BdA works to fight racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism; any discrimination based on national origin, race, sexual orientation or ideology and is against physical or other threats resulting from such discrimination.\n\nThe organization has under 9,000 members (as of 2003). Twice a month, it publishes the magazine, \"Antifa\". The honorary president is the late Kurt Julius Goldstein.\n\nThe VVN-BdA initiated a nationwide campaign in early 2007, lasting till that December, that called for a renewed effort to ban the NPD. At the heart of the campaign was a petition calling for the Bundestag to pass \"a new ban against the NPD, according to Article 21, paragraph 2 of the <nowiki>[German]</nowiki> Constitution\". The campaign included informational tables and events throughout Germany and had celebrity support from Hannelore Elsner, Frank Werneke and the board of 1. FC Nürnberg.\n\nAt the end of the petition campaign on December 12, 2007, the 175,455 signatures were delivered to Bundestag Vice President Petra Pau, Bundestag members Gesine Lötzsch and Dorothée Menzner of the Left Party and Niels Annen of the Social Democratic Party. A new campaign to ban the NPD began on January 27, 2009.\n\nThe 2005 report on political extremism by Germany's Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution considered the VVN-BdA as \"influenced by left-wing extremism\". It found that\n\nThe report acknowledged that the VVN-BdA had, since 1989, stopped describing ultra-left violence and injustice as commendable; nevertheless, Communist crimes were consistently qualified, ignored and even denied.\n\nLater reports on the Protection of the Constitution do not mention the organisation anymore. Some state reports, such as from Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria, do still mention them in their reports.\nThe Bavarian intelligence agency regards the VVN-BbA's use of the term \"anti-fascism,\" as meaning not just the fight against right-wing extremism, but also to mean agitation against the democratic state and its institutions. In addition, it claims the fight against right-wing extremism is a pretence under which organization tries to influence the middle class and co-opt democrats for its goals against the democracy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
