{"id": "58817726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58817726", "title": "Acyl-CoA oxidase deficiency", "text": "Acyl-CoA oxidase deficiency\n\nAcyl-CoA oxidase deficiency (ACOX1 deficiency) is a rare disorder that leads to significant damage and deterioration of nervous system functions (neurodegeneration). It is caused by pathogenic variants in \"ACOX1\", which codes for the production of an enzyme called peroxisomal straight-chain acyl-CoA oxidase (ACOX1). This specific enzyme is responsible for the breakdown of very long chain fatty acids (VLCFAs).\n\nDefective function of the ACOX1 enzyme prevents proper breakdown of these VLCFAs, leading to accumulation and interference with the nervous system. Acyl-CoA oxidase deficiency affects a person from birth, and most newborns affected with this condition will not survive past early childhood. Affected individuals can be born with hypotonia, seizures, and dysmorphic features, such as widely spaced eyes, a low nasal bridge and low set ears. Polydactyly and hepatomegaly have also been described. Most babies will learn to walk and begin speaking, before experiencing a rapid decline in motor function between the ages of 1 and 3. As the person ages, and the conditions worsens, they begin to experience exaggerated reflexes (hyperreflexia), more severe and frequent seizures, and gradual loss of vision and hearing.\nThere is no cure for this condition, however there are a range of symptom-based treatments, used to provide supportive care.\n\nChildren are born with this condition and their symptoms can be seen immediately. In the early stages these can appear quite mild; weak muscle tone (often extreme hypotonia), lack of neonatal reflexes, seizures and abnormal (dysmorphic) facial features such as widely spaced eyes, a low nasal bridge, low set ears and an abnormally large forehead. Due to the nature of the disease, in the build-up of VLCFAs, symptoms worsen progressively over time. Children can often reach the stage at which they begin to walk and talk, before experiencing a rapid decline in motor skills due to demyelination and subsequent nerve damage. A hearing deficit may develop, eyesight and response to visual and physical stimuli begins to diminish and eventually becomes non-existent. The life expectancy of an individual with ACOX1 deficiency is 5 years.\n\nAcyl-CoA oxidase deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder that is caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in \"ACOX1.\" This is the gene that codes for the production of an enzyme called peroxisomal straight-chain acyl-CoA oxidase which is responsible for the breakdown of VLCFAs. It is not completely clear how the build-up of these VLCFAs causes the symptoms seen with this condition, however research suggests that this abnormal accumulation triggers an inflammation in the nervous system which leads to demyelination. Demyelination leads to the loss of white matter, leukodystrophy, in the brain and spinal cord. It is this leukodystrophy that is related to the development of neurological abnormalities in people with Acyl-CoA oxidase deficiency. Acyl-CoA oxidase deficiency is an extremely rare condition.\n\nDiagnosis can be done both prenatally based on family history and after birth based on clinical suspicion. The primary prenatal diagnosis techniques involve the assessment of amniotic fluid for an abnormal elevation in VLCFAs, and a reduced presence (or in some cases complete absence) of acyl-CoA oxidase in fibroblasts. If the causative variants in a family are known, prenatal diagnosis can be performed by molecular testing.\nAfter birth, there are a number of diagnostic techniques available for use. A blood sample can be taken, from which the serum levels of VLCFAs and acyl-CoA oxidase activity can be assessed. Analysis of VLCFAs is important for the identification of ACOX1 deficiency, if a leukodystrophy has been identified Since the condition is genetic, and is caused by pathogenic variants in \"ACOX1\", it can be confirmed by sequence or copy number analysis. Due to the rarity of this condition, people who have it may not be diagnosed early in their disease progression. As a result, acyl-CoA oxidase deficiency may be misdiagnosed as similar conditions such as Usher syndrome and neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy.\n\nThere are no cures for ACOX1 deficiency, supportive care is used to manage specific clinical symptoms for affected individuals. Treatment is based upon symptoms, with the aim the provide some relief. Pharmacologic agents are used to help improve muscle tone (management of dystonia) and to block neurological signalling to the muscle. Physical therapy is used to improve movement and function. For the specific treatment of recurrent seizures, there are both pharmaceutical and surgical options.\n"}
{"id": "54848869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54848869", "title": "Alcohol and pregnancy", "text": "Alcohol and pregnancy\n\nAlcohol in pregnancy is the use of alcohol during gestation, including the time before the woman is aware of the pregnancy. Binge drinking when pregnant is not safe for the baby. No amount of alcohol is considered safe to drink while pregnant and there is no safe time point or trimester in pregnancy to drink alcohol. Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders are a group of conditions that can occur in a person whose mother drank alcohol during pregnancy. The most severe form of the condition is known as fetal alcohol syndrome. Problems may include an abnormal appearance, short height, low body weight, small head size, poor coordination, low intelligence, behavioral problems, hearing loss, and vision problems. Those affected are more likely to have trouble in school, legal problems, participate in high-risk behaviors, and have trouble with alcohol and recreational drug use. Alcohol use during pregnancy also can cause spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, low birthweight, and prematurity. Not all infants exposed to alcohol in utero will have defects related to the alcohol consumption. The use of alcohol during pregnancy is associated with domestic violence and potential harm to the infant.\n\nFetal alcohol syndrome usually occurs when a pregnant woman has more than four drinks per day during the first trimester, with milder symptoms have been found with two drinks per day Evidence of harm from less than two drinks per day or 10 drinks per week is not clear. Most health organisations recommend complete abstinence from alcohol during the first three months of pregnancy, when the fetus is most susceptible to the mutative effects of alcohol, and recommend overall moderation throughout the entire pregnancy.\nDifferent body systems in the infant grow, mature and develop at specific times during gestation. The consumption of alcohol during one or more of these developmental stages may only result in one or few conditions.\n\nDuring the first weeks of pregnancy babies grow at a rapid pace, even before the mothers know they are pregnant. From conception and to the third week, the most susceptible systems and organs are the brain, spinal cord, and heart. These crucial organs start forming in early stages of pregnancy, which are very sensitive and critical periods in human development. Though these body systems complete their development later in the pregnancy, the effects of alcohol consumption early in the pregnancy can result in defects to these systems and organs. During the fourth week of gestation, the limbs are being formed and it is at this point that alcohol can effect the development of arms, legs, fingers and toes. The eyes and ears also form during the fourth week and are more susceptible to the effects of alcohol. By the sixth week of gestation, the teeth and palate are forming and alcohol consumption at this time will affect these structures. Alcohol use in this window is responsible for many of the facial characteristics of fetal alcohol syndrome. By the 20th week of gestation the formation of organs and organ systems is well-developed. The infant is still susceptible to the damaging effects of alcohol. Therefore, it would be safer for women to stop drinking prior to trying to conceive. \n\nThe baby’s brain, body, and organs are developing throughout pregnancy and can be affected by exposure to alcohol at any time. Because every pregnancy is different, drinking alcohol may hurt one baby more than another. A child that has been affected by alcohol before birth may be appear 'normal' at birth. Intellectual disabilities may not appear until the child begins school.\n\nThe developing fetus is exposed to the alcohol through placenta and umbilical cord. Alcohol metabolizes slowly in fetus and remains for a longer time when compared to an adult because of re-uptake of alcohol-containing amniotic fluid. . Alcohol exposure has serious implication on developing fetus as well as mother. When a woman is planning for pregnancy, she should keep in mind that no safe limit for any type of alcohol. It can lead to premature birth which manifests later as child continues to grow. One of the main outcome in developing baby is Fetal Alcohol Syndrome, which is characterized by: cleft palate and/or cleft lip, unproportionate physical development of the body, various disabilities like attention deficiency, memory and coordination power is low and improper functioning of various body organs like kidney, heart and bones. Miscarriage,low birth weight and stillbirth are other common outcomes.\n\nThese effects can be magnified specially during the first and third trimester of pregnancy when the baby is growing rapidly. Alcohol consumption specially in the first trimester of pregnancy, which is a crucial developmental stage of fetal growth, can have serious consequences. Developing fetus can be exposed to alcohol in the earliest weeks of pregnancy. In the third week, alcohol can affect the heart and central nervous system of the fetus. If mother continues to drink, fetus's eyes, legs and arms can be adversely affected. Continuous exposure further through sixth week can further have negative impact on ear and teeth development. Fetus's palate and external genitalia can be affected if the mother persists drinking. During the twelfth week, frequent alcohol exposure can negatively impact the brain development which affects cognitive, learning and behavioral skills before birth. Consumption of excessive alcohol can lead to Fetal Alcohol Syndrome which can produce irreversible lifetime changes in physical, metal and neurobehavioral development of developing fetus. Alcohol during pregnancy not only affects the developing fetus, but it has adverse health outcomes on pregnant mother as well. It can harm the fertility of women who are planning for pregnancy. Mother could easily get injured from falls under the influence of alcohol which can eventually lead to miscarriage. Alcohol adverse effects can lead to malnutrition, seizures, vomiting and dehydration. Mother can suffer from anxiety, depression which can result in child abuse/neglect. It has also been observed that while the pregnant mother withdraws from alcohol, its effects are visible on the infant as well. The baby remains in an irritated mood, cries frequently, doesn’t sleep properly, weakening of sucking ability and increased hunger.\n\nAlcohol consumption during pregnancy may increases the risk that the child will develop acute myeloid leukemia at a young age.\n\nWhen an infant is born and appears to be healthy, the baby may still have non-visible disorders and organ defects due to exposure to alcohol during the pregnancy. Social problems in the child have been found to be associated with alcohol use during gestation. Alcohol is a cause of microcephaly. Alcohol use during pregnancy does not effect the ability to breastfeed the infant. In addition, an infant may breastfeed even if the mother continues to consume alcohol after the birth. An infant born to a mother that has an alcohol dependency may go through alcohol withdrawal after the birth.\n\nOne of the major effects of alcohol consumption during pregnancy is Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders(FASDs). Of which, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome(FAS) is the most severe form. It is shown that small amounts of alcohol consumed during pregnancy does not show any health related issues in the face, but behavioral issues can be seen. \n\nThere is a wide range of symptoms seen in persons suffering from FASDs which include: \n\n•Abnormal facial features, such as a smooth ridge between the nose and upper lip (this ridge is called the philtrum) \n\n•Small head size \n\n•Shorter-than-average height \n\n•Low body weight \n\n•Poor coordination \n\n•Hyperactive behavior \n\n•Difficulty with attention \n\n•Poor memory \n\n•Difficulty in school (especially with math) \n\n•Learning disabilities \n\n•Speech and language delays \n\n•Intellectual disability or low IQ \n\n•Poor reasoning and judgment skills \n\n•Sleep and sucking problems as a baby \n\n•Vision or hearing problems \n\n•Problems with the heart, kidneys, or bones. \n\nThere are four types of FASDs depending on the symptoms: (1) Fetal Alcohol Syndrome(FAS), (2) Alcohol-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder(ARND), (3) Alcohol-Related Birth Defects(ARBD), (4) Neurobehavioral Disorder Associated with Prenatal Alcohol Exposure(ND-PAE).\n\nThere are three approaches to treatment of FAS: \n\n(1) At Home- A stable and loving home along with a regular routine, simple rules to follow and where rewards are given for positive behavior is a good environment for children with FAS. \n\n(2) Medications- Medications are used to specifically treat symptoms of FASDs and not FAS entirely. Some of the medications used are antidepressants, stimulants, neuroleptics and anti-anxiety drugs. \n\n(3) Counseling- Children with FAS benefit from behavioral and functional training, social skill training and tutoring. Support groups and talk therapy not only help the children suffering from FAS, but also help the parents and siblings of these children.\n\nA woman may elect to discontinue alcohol once she knows that she is pregnant. A woman can have serious symptoms that accompany alcohol withdrawal during pregnancy. These symptoms can be treated during pregnancy with benzodiazepine.\n\nOne out of 67 women who drink alcohol during pregnancy will have a child with a birth defect. The five countries with the highest prevalence of alcohol use during pregnancy were Ireland (about 60%), Belarus (47%), Denmark (46%), the UK (41%) and the Russian Federation (37%). The lowest prevalence is in those nations whose religious beliefs govern their alcohol consumption. Birth defects caused by alcohol consumption may be up to 1% in many places. This may mean that FASD may be higher than anencephaly, Down syndrome, spina bifida and trisomy 18. Globally, one in 10 women drink alcohol during pregnancy. Out of this population, 20% binge drink and have four or more alcoholic drinks per single occasion. \"Binge drinking is the direct cause of FAS or FASD. These findings are alarming because half of the pregnancies in developed countries and over 80% in developing countries are unplanned. That means that many women don’t realize they are pregnant during the early stages and that they continue drinking when pregnant.\"\n\nStarting in 1981, the surgeon general of the United States started releasing a warning asking pregnant women to abstain from alcohol for the remainder of gestation. The American Academy of Pediatrics issued set of recommendations in 2015: \"During pregnancy no amount of alcohol intake should be considered safe; there is no safe trimester to drink alcohol; all forms of alcohol, such as beer, wine, and liquor, pose similar risk; and binge drinking poses dose-related risk to the developing fetus.\" The World Health Organization recommends that alcohol should be avoided entirely during pregnancy, given the relatively unknown effects of even small amounts of alcohol during pregnancy. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence has advised that women abstain from alcohol entirely during the first three months of gestation, and that if women do choose to drink they should drink no more than one or two drinks once or twice a week.\n\nThere is some controversy surrounding the \"zero-tolerance\" approach taken by many countries when it comes to alcohol consumption during pregnancy. The assertion that moderate drinking causes FAS is said to lack strong evidence and, in fact, the practice of equating a responsible level of drinking with potential harm to the fetus may have negative social, legal, and health impacts. In 2016 an infographic created by the CDC caused controversy because it recommended that women of child-bearing age abstain from alcohol if they were not on birth control. This is because the window for developing fetal alcohol syndrome is very early, before women may know they're pregnant. However, the recommendation was seen as onerous or overly broad with some sources claiming it \"shamed women.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "40545775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40545775", "title": "Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life", "text": "Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life\n\nThe Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life (ASQoL) questionnaire is a patient-reported outcome (PRO) measure which assesses the quality of life of patients with ankylosing spondylitis. The ASQoL is based on the needs-based quality of life model. It is a self-administered questionnaire which contains 18 items and takes up to four minutes to complete.\n\nDeveloped by Galen Research and published in 2003, the ASQoL has been used in clinical studies worldwide. The content for the measure was drawn from qualitative interviews that were conducted with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) patients. The draft version of the ASQoL was created and then went through several stages of testing to ensure it had good face validity, content validity, reproducibility and construct validity.\n\nThe ASQoL was initially developed in UK English and Dutch, but to date a total of 37 language versions have been adapted. The language adaptations can be broken down into waves:\n\nPharmaceutical companies began utilizing the ASQoL to test the effectiveness of newly developed TNF inhibitors, which aid in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis. Abbott has utilized the ASQoL to evaluate the impact of adalimumab and other organizations like Wyeth and the Medical Research Council have used it to evaluate the effect of etanercept.\n\nSince the development of the ASQoL, several studies have been performed in order to evaluate and validate the measure. These studies include:\n\n"}
{"id": "46722030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46722030", "title": "Association for Promoting the Extension of the Contagious Diseases Acts", "text": "Association for Promoting the Extension of the Contagious Diseases Acts\n\nThe Association for Promoting the Extension of the Contagious Diseases Acts was established in 1867 to support the Contagious Diseases Acts that were passed by the British Parliament in 1864. The acts legalized prostitution and put the women involved under police and medical control. The Association strongly campaigned for the extension of the Contagious Diseases Acts to be extended outside of the naval and army barracks and be made effective to the whole of the country, as they believed this was the best way of regulating prostitution.\n\nThe supporters of the acts were opposed by the Ladies National Association for the Repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts, which was led by Elizabeth Wolstenholme and Josephine Butler.\n\nThe Contagious Diseases Act was a law passed by Parliament in 1864. It was replaced by acts of 1866 and 1869 giving even more powers to the police, and covering additional districts. It caused demand not only for extension of the acts to the rest of the country, but also for the repeal of the acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2455053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2455053", "title": "Autorefractor", "text": "Autorefractor\n\nAn autorefractor or automated refractor is a computer-controlled machine used during an eye examination to provide an objective measurement of a person's refractive error and prescription for glasses or contact lenses. This is achieved by measuring how light is changed as it enters a person's eye.\n\nThe majority of autorefractors calculate the vision correction a patient needs (refraction) by using sensors that detect the reflections from a cone of infrared light. These reflections are used to determine the size and shape of a ring in the retina at the back of the eye. By measuring this zone, the autorefractor can determine when a patient’s eye properly focuses an image. The instrument changes its magnification until the image comes into focus. The process is repeated in at least three meridians of the eye and the autorefractor calculates the refraction of the eye, sphere, cylinder and axis. Modern autorefractors are based on the idea patented by Medina.\n\nIn some offices, this process is used to provide the starting point for the ophthalmologist or optometrist in subjective refraction tests. Here, lenses are switched in and out of a phoropter and the patient is asked \"which looks better\" while looking at a chart. This feedback refines the prescription to one which provides the patient with the best vision.\n\nAutomated refraction is particularly useful when dealing with non-communicative people such as young children or those with disabilities.\n\nRetinoscopy performed by an experienced clinician has been found to provide a more accurate estimation of refractive error than autorefraction. Recent studies report that autorefractor measurements without application of cycloplegia medication can result in significant overestimation of myopia.\n\n"}
{"id": "50061320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50061320", "title": "Bigfoot Biomedical", "text": "Bigfoot Biomedical\n\nBigfoot Biomedical, Inc. is a medical technology startup headquartered in California. The company was founded by parents of children with Type 1 Diabetes (T1D): Jeffrey Brewer, Bryan Mazlish, and Lane Desborough.\n\nThe company’s start may be traced back to 2011, when quantitative trader Bryan Mazlish’s son received his diagnosis of T1D. He developed a control algorithm to drive the first automated and cloud-connected, closed-loop, artificial pancreas device for his wife and son, who have been using the closed-loop automation of insulin delivery since 2013. The existence of this “homebrew artificial pancreas” was kept from the press and the subject of rumor, earning Mazlish the nickname Bigfoot from author Dan Hurley in a piece for Wired Magazine in 2014.\n\nIn late 2014, Mazlish joined with Brewer and Desborough to form Bigfoot Biomedical in order to scale and commercialize the technology, calling the company Bigfoot Biomedical.\n\nIn January 2017, it was reported that, Bigfoot Biomedical received investment from the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF).\n\nIn June 2017, the team from Patients Pending LTD, makers of the Timesulin smart insulin pen, including CEO John Sjölund joined Bigfoot Biomedical to lead the development of a smart pen solution for people utilizing multiple daily injections to manage their diabetes.\n\nIn May 2015, Bigfoot acquired all the assets of Asante Solutions, former manufacturer of the Snap insulin pump. Later that month, Bigfoot announced a development agreement with Dexcom in June 2015, securing the technology needed for the continuous glucose monitoring component of the system.\n\nIn June 2017, Bigfoot announced the acquisition of London-based startup Patients Pending, LTD, maker of the Timesulin smart insulin pen tracker, and the company's Bluetooth-enabled insulin pen dose capture technology, with the goal being to use Patients Pending's Bluetooth-enabled dose capture technology to provide people on injection therapy with dose titration decision support, giving smart dosing guidance based on previous glucose trends and insulin doses captured from the cap with a commercial launch possible in 2019.\n\nJuly 2017 saw Bigfoot announce a collaboration with Abbott Laboratories to integrate Abbott’s FreeStyle® Libre glucose sensing technology with Bigfoot’s insulin delivery solutions in the United States. The agreement allows for Bigfoot's use of a \"next generation\" version of the Libre sensor system that allows for continuous glucose transmission. The Abbott FreeStyle® Libre does not require users to prick their finger to retrieve glucose values or calibrate the sensor. For Bigfoot, the deal offers an opportunity to disrupt the automated insulin delivery field with the first integration of a sensor technology designed to eliminate the need for fingerstick calibrations and aids Bigfoot in its goal of creating patient-friendly technologies.\n\nThe Bigfoot automated insulin delivery system will combine an insulin pump programmed with a proprietary control algorithm, a continuous glucose monitoring sensor and transmitter, and a commercial off-the-shelf smartphone. It will also integrate data generated from a Bluetooth connected blood glucose meter.\n\nBigfoot Biomedical’s first clinical trial enrolled its first patients in 2016. A pivotal trial for the automated insulin delivery system is planned for late 2018 at as many as a dozen clinical research sites and including both doctors and patients who are new to pump therapy. A separate trial for the company's MDI (multiple daily injection) auto-titration system is also planned.\n"}
{"id": "53843727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53843727", "title": "Biomedical Systems", "text": "Biomedical Systems\n\nBiomedical Systems Corporation was a global company specializing in clinical trials services and medical devices to biopharmaceutical and healthcare organizations. Founded in 1975, Biomedical Systems offered centralized cardiac safety, medical imaging and respiratory services in drug development and also collected, analyzed and distributed electronic patient-reported outcome (ePRO) in multiple modalities across all phases of clinical research.\n\nOn September 8, 2017, ERT announced its acquisition of Biomedical Systems.\n\nIn 2010 Biomedical Systems introduced their own Wireless Ambulatory ECG Monitoring System called the TruVue™ Wireless Telemetry Device as part of their Cardiac Patient Services Business. TruVue would record and remotely transmit heartbeats for up to 30 days; and was intended for the diagnosis and management of atrial fibrillation and other cardiac arrhythmia. Biomedical Systems later sold TruVue to Malvern, Pennsylvania-based BioTelemetry, Inc. for $8.65 million.\n\nLater in 2012 Biomedical Systems added ePRO services through their acquisition of Belgium-based Symfo.\n\nBiomedical Systems continually supported various, often local charitable causes by raising awareness and through financial donations. Some of their recent contributions include:\n\n"}
{"id": "57650445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57650445", "title": "Bladder outlet decline", "text": "Bladder outlet decline\n\nDecline in bladder outlet is the process of gradual atrophy in the distal structures to the bladder in the urinary system. It happens alongside with atrophy of the reproductive system in females. It is one of the contributing factors for disorders like stress incontinence.\n\nIt is commonly associated with decline in urethral resistance pressure.\n"}
{"id": "28302969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28302969", "title": "Bottled water in the United States", "text": "Bottled water in the United States\n\nThe United States is the largest consumer market for bottled water in the world, followed by Mexico, China, and Brazil.\nIn 1975, Americans hardly drank bottled water—just one gallon of bottled water per person per year on average. By 2005, it had grown to ~26 gallons (98.5 L) per person per year.\nIn 2008, U.S. bottled water sales topped for 28.9% of the U.S. liquid refreshment beverage market, exceeding sales of all other beverages except carbonated soft drinks, followed by fruit juices and sports drinks. By 2011, this number had risen to 9.1 billion gallons. In 2017, the single-serve water sales totaled $24.1 billion. Americans drink of bottled water per capita per year.\nFrom 1970 (16 brands) over 1998 (50 brands) to 2012 (195 brands), the number of mineral water brands in the U.S. has grown exponentially.\n\nAbout 25% of U.S. bottled water sold is purified municipal water according to a four-year study by the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC). Both Aquafina from PepsiCo and Dasani from The Coca-Cola Company originate from municipal water systems. However, according to the FDA, about 75 percent of bottled water sold in the U.S. comes from other sources, including \"natural underground sources, which include rivers, lakes, springs and artesian wells.\" Federal regulations also require that the standard of identity be noted on the bottle label.\n\nBottled water is regulated by the Food & Drug Administration according to standards of identity, standards of quality and good manufacturing practices.\n\nStandards of identity define types of water for labeling purposes:\n\nStandards of quality regulate acceptable levels of the water's turbidity, color and odor, according to sample analysis. Exemptions are made according to aesthetically based allowable levels, and do not relate to health concerns. An example is mineral water, which is exempt from allowable color levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20465833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20465833", "title": "Breaking the Habit (film)", "text": "Breaking the Habit (film)\n\nBreaking the Habit is a 1964 American short documentary film directed by John Korty about cigarette smoking and lung cancer. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Short.\n\nTwo men are discussing about the benefits of giving up smoking, while themselves puffing cigarettes.\n\nFreelance animator Korty moved to Stinson Beach, California, where one day he met sound artist Henry Jacobs who had prepared the soundtrack for a future short film about smoking, sponsored by the California division of American Cancer Society. Korty began work on the film under his own company Korty Films, employing cutout animation, conceptualized the characters and prepared the animation frames in his home studio and finally shooting them using a homemade camera stand. Modern Talking Picture Service distributed the film.\n\nDescribed variously as \"[d]one in semi-surrealistic style\" and having \"deadpan dialogue with a minimalist animation style\", \"Breaking the Habit\" received a nomination at the 37th Academy Awards in the Best Documentary (Short Subject) category but lost to \"Nine from Little Rock\". An article in \"The Kingston Daily Freeman\" stated that the film \"reveals both the danger and the essential silliness of smoking\".\n\nThe Washington State Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction included \"Breaking the Habit\" in its list of prescribed films to be shown in schools to discourage smoking and creating awareness regarding medical issues caused by it. It was also screened at the 1st Chicago Film Festival held in 1965, the following year's Melbourne International Film Festival and won a Silver Award at the San Francisco International Film Festival. The soundtrack of the film was included in the album \"The Wide Weird World of Henry Jacobs\". , the Academy Film Archive was working on restoring the short film.\n"}
{"id": "1775059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1775059", "title": "Bryan Bergeron", "text": "Bryan Bergeron\n\nBryan P. Bergeron is an author of numerous books in the fields of medicine, computers, biotechnology, and business. He teaches in the HST Division of Harvard Medical School and MIT and is president of Archetype Technologies, Inc. \n\n"}
{"id": "2107712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107712", "title": "Caseworker (social work)", "text": "Caseworker (social work)\n\nIn social work, a caseworker is similar to a type of social worker who is employed by a government agency, non-profit organization, or another group to take on the cases of individuals and provide them with advocacy, information or other services. They are not required to have a social work degree or licensure as do Social Workers. Also, in political arenas, caseworkers are employed as a type of legislative staffer by legislators to provide service to their constituents such as dealing with individual or family concerns and obtaining social services. British MPs and members of the United States Congress often provide constituent services through caseworkers for better use of their allotted funds.\n\nThe history of social casework is closely tied to the advent of social work as a general professional discipline. In the late nineteenth century, the formation of the Charity Organization Society, and the Settlement movement represented the beginning of efforts towards alleviating industrial poverty. While social casework was a primary method of intervention, it was not until Mary Richmond published \"Social Diagnosis\" in 1917 that a formal definition for social casework began to formulate. In \"Social Diagnosis\", Richmond advocated for working \"with\" clients, rather than on them, and for gaining \"sympathetic understanding of the old world backgrounds from which the client came\" in lieu of making generalizations or assumptions. The term social diagnosis came to refer to \"a systematic way for helping professionals to gather information and study client problems\" based on each client's unique background, problems, and individualized needs.\n\nSocial casework is the method employed by social workers to help individuals find solutions to problems of social adjustment that are difficult for individuals to navigate on their own.\n\nSocial casework is a primary approach and method of social work, concerned with the adjustment and development of the individual and, in some instances, couples, towards more satisfying human relations. In social casework, the relationship between a caseworker and their client is one of support, focused on \"enabling an individual in solving a problem through self-efforts.\" The social casework relationship is a dynamic interaction of attitudes and emotions between the social caseworker and the client with the purpose of satisfying the clients psychosocial needs to achieve a better intrapersonal (interactions and transactions) adjustment by the client within the respective environment. Psychosocial assessment is a key tool used in casework; it is the initial assessment of a client's current, relevant past, and possible future modes of adaptation to both stressful situations and normal living situations. Problem solving is the intent behind every social casework process; the caseworker doesn't solve the problem for the client, but helps the person in the situation to be equipped in solving or facing the problem adequately within the individual's weaknesses and strengths to the end of overall development.\n\nThe social casework profession is focused on one primary goal: \"to enhance human well-being and help meet the basic human needs of all people, with particular attention to the needs and empowerment of people who are vulnerable, oppressed, and living in poverty.\" Values maintained in casework are:\n\n\nThe stages are:\n\nSocial work case management is a process of linking clients to services that enhance their functional capacity, from assessment to comprehensive intervention for equitable client care. According to NASW (1984) \"Case management is a mechanism for ensuring a comprehensive program that will meet an individual's need for care by coordinating and linking components of a service delivery system.\" It is a collaborative process of assessment, planning, facilitation, and advocacy for options and services to meet an individual's health needs through communication and provision of available resources to promote qualitative cost effective outcomes. Here, health needs are within the social model of health which includes addressing the social and environmental determinants of health-the psycho-social, recreational, cultural and language needs in tandem with physical/biological and medical factors. These needs are defined by a problem's context, formulation, and definition.\n\nCase management has alternatively been known as \"service coordination\" or \"care coordination\" since the late 1980s. Care coordination is defined by NASW as \"a client-centered, assessment based, interdisciplinary approach to integrating health care and psychosocial support services in which a care coordinator develops and implements a comprehensive care plan that addresses the client's needs, strengths, and goals.\" There are two types of case management one is based on objective aims of the service organization and the other is dependent on the individual or group who benefits the service. Case management differs from one setting to another depending upon the policies, tolerance and objectives however efficiency in services is a common element. One such element that affects efficiency is caseloads. Department of Children and Families, United States recommends no more than 12–15 open/active cases and 8–10 new referrals per month when it comes to caseload and efficient management of workload. This post-2008 allocation of caseload management showed 90% efficiency in services and quality of practice by Center for the Study of Social Policy (CSSP), 2009. A general work load hours that takes for Case management is 3.30 hrs in which 1.45 hrs takes for case intake; Traditional individual – family assessment takes 3.45 hrs – 12.45 hrs as per Minnesota Workload Analytics for evidence based stabilizing and strengthening the workforce. To increase handling caseloads over-hiring and expanding employee benefits is a practice used by social services. Though Arizona's Department of Economic Security surveys show increasing caseloads alone above 35 cases per caseworker a month attracted repeated maltreatment reports and the ideal clients per case manager ratio suggested is 10:1. To reduce the caseload they focused on expanding prevention services which showed a positive effect. Larger the caseload lesser the direct care will be and the services will be more of brokerage and crisis management. Case management is a part of direct social work practice, it involves development and implementation of the case plan and administration of case management systems for effective service delivery. This makes the case manager involve in resource development, service management, lean leadership, cost control, resource distribution, and use of authority. Due to the resource control aspect a Case manager's activity is also known as service management.\n\nThe generic phases of case management are similar to the casework process:\n\nIn case management practice there are different models used:\n\nCaseworkers are employed by a large number of organizations in Britain, especially in the voluntary and public sectors. In the United States, most government agencies that provide social services to children in poor or troubled families have a staff of caseworkers, each of whom is assigned a proportion of the cases under review at any given time. In Australia, caseworkers may be assigned to work in child protection, drug and alcohol services or community health organizations. As of 2004, there were approximately 876,000 child welfare caseworkers in the United States. Seventy-two percent are women, and the mean salary for all caseworkers was $64,590.\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "49057802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49057802", "title": "Cecilia Omaile Ojabo", "text": "Cecilia Omaile Ojabo\n\nCecilia Omaile Ojabo (born in 1960) is the Commissioner of Health and Human Services in Benue State, Nigeria. She was sworn in by Governor Samuel Ortom in 2015. She is also an Associate Professor of Ophthalmology at the Benue State University Teaching Hospital (BSUTH). Currently, her focus is to improve healthcare in rural areas of Benue State. She is working towards making hospitals more functional; increasing number of medical staff; and getting rid of polio infection and cholera outbreaks in the entire state.\nShe attended Saint Francis Primary School, Otukpo, Nigeria, from 1965 to 1971, and proceeded to the Government Girls Secondary School, Shendam, Nigeria, where she graduated with a West African School Certificate in 1976. She got her medical degree from the University of Benin (Nigeria) in 1985. She has worked in a number of hospitals in Nigeria and Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "4092962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4092962", "title": "Chronic mountain sickness", "text": "Chronic mountain sickness\n\nChronic mountain sickness (CMS or Monge's disease) is a disease in which the proportion of blood volume that is occupied by red blood cells increases (polycythaemia) and there is an abnormally low level of oxygen in the blood (hypoxaemia). CMS typically develops after extended time living at high altitude (over ). It is most common amongst native populations of high altitude nations. The most frequent symptoms of CMS are headache, dizziness, tinnitus, breathlessness, palpitations, sleep disturbance, fatigue, loss of appetite, confusion, cyanosis, and dilation of veins.\n\nCMS was first described in 1925 by Carlos Monge Medrano, a Peruvian doctor who specialised in diseases of high altitude. While acute mountain sickness is experienced shortly after ascent to high altitude, chronic mountain sickness may develop only after many years of living at high altitude. In medicine, high altitude is defined as over , but most cases of CMS occur at over .\n\nIt has recently been correlated with increased expression of the genes \"ANP32D\" and \"SENP1\".\n\nAlthough CMS generally affects people native to altitudes higher than , it does not affect populations around the world equally. A recent study by Sahota and Panwar (2013) reviewed CMS prevalence rates around the world and found the highest rates were found in Andean countries of South America and the lowest rates in people native to the East African Mountains of Ethiopia. CMS prevalence rates reported from the study are summarised below:\n\n\nCMS is characterised by polycythaemia (with subsequent increased haematocrit) and hypoxaemia; raised blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) can develop over time and in some cases progress to heart failure (cor pulmonale). CMS is believed to arise because of an excessive production of red blood cells (erythrocytes) due to the low oxygen levels at altitude, which increases the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood. The increased levels of erythrocytes causes increased blood viscosity and uneven blood flow through the lungs (V/Q mismatch). However, CMS is also considered an adaptation of pulmonary and heart disease to life under chronic hypoxia at altitude.\n\nConsensus for clinical diagnosis of CMS use laboratory values: haemoglobin in Males ≥ 21 g/dL; Females ≥ 19 g/dL, haematocrit > 65%, and arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2) < 85% in both genders.\n\nMigration to low altitude is curative, though not immediate, as the body adapts to the normal oxygen level near sea-level and the haematocrit normalises. Alternatively, bloodletting (phlebotomy) can be performed to lower the haematocrit temporarily; when combined with volume replacement with fluids this can have a longer effect.\n\nMedication with acetazolamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, has been shown to improve chronic mountain sickness by reducing erythropoietin and the resulting polycythaemia, which results in better arterial oxygenation and a lower heart rate.\n\nOxygen therapy and training in slow breathing techniques has been shown to reduce symptoms through increasing blood oxygenation.\n\n"}
{"id": "27038167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27038167", "title": "Community Hospital of San Bernardino", "text": "Community Hospital of San Bernardino\n\nCommunity Hospital of San Bernardino (CHSB) is a 343-bed non-profit hospital in San Bernardino, California, USA. It is currently affiliated with Dignity Health, but remains a non-denominational community hospital. The hospital is one of the region's largest employers, with more than 1,350 employees, and primarily serves the areas of San Bernardino, Rialto, Colton, Highland and Fontana.\n\nJune Collison - President / CEO\n\n1909: Dr. Henry William Mills and Ralph E. Swing purchased the site of an old adobe saloon at 4th St. and Arrowhead Avenue, and began construction of a 2-story stucco hospital building.\n\n1910: 42-bed Ramona Hospital opened.\n\n1932: Bank took over operation of Ramona Hospital due to financial losses suffered during the Great Depression. 16 Doctors, a Dentist, and a layman formed the Ramona Hospital Association, donating over $40,000 to buy the hospital back from the bank.\n\n1938: Ramona Hospital Association reorganized into a charitable non-profit corporation with a new name - \"San Bernardino Community Hospital\".\n\n1953: San Bernardino Community Hospital purchased property at the current location of 17th St. and Western Avenue.\n\n1954: Entertainer Sammy Davis Jr. was taken to San Bernardino Community Hospital after being injured in a car accident. Dr. Frederick H. Hull was able to save the sight in his right eye.\n\n1958: Construction completed of new hospital facility at 17th St. and Western Avenue. This was the first air-conditioned hospital in the city, with 133 beds, 30 bassinets, and 275 employees.\n\n1958: Sammy Davis Jr. hosted a star-studded fundraiser at the Swing Auditorium, featuring Judy Garland, Tina Louise, Shirley MacLaine, Diane Carroll, and many others. The show, attended by over 8,000 people, raised over $31,048 for furnishings at the new hospital.\n\n1961: Major expansion program added 95 beds, conference rooms, an auditorium, enlarged emergency facilities, a new obstetrical delivery area, and a service building.\n\n1964-1971: Various hospital expansions included a new laboratory, new lobby and business office, 125-bed extended-care facility, new physical therapy building, expanded maternity wing, renovation of intensive care and coronary care wing, and expansion of radiology, cardiopulmonary, and central supply. By 1971, the total bed count was increased to 322.\n\n1989: Five-story patient care tower opened. The tower was named for Monida B. Cummings, the daughter of famed firearm designer John Moses Browning. Cummings donated over $1 Million to the construction of the new tower.\n\n1993: 60-bed Robert H. Ballard Rehabilitation Hospital opened.\n\n1996: Medical Office Building (Community Medical Plaza) opened. The new building was connected to the hospital by a bridge that spans Medical Center Drive.\n\n1998: Affiliated with Catholic Healthcare West\n\n2007: Community Hospital of San Bernardino named as only the 61st Baby Friendly Hospital in the United States.\n\n2008: Community Hospital Auxiliary celebrates 50 years, and over 1 million hours, of volunteer service.\n\n2009: Community Hospital of San Bernardino named by HealthGrades as one of the top 10% of hospitals for Maternity Care, with a five-star rating.\n\n2010: Community Hospital of San Bernardino celebrates 100 years of service to the community. Currently, more than 13,000 patients are admitted to the hospital each year, and more than 40,000 are treated in the Emergency Department.\n\n2012: Catholic Healthcare West renamed Dignity Health\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55156369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55156369", "title": "Community nursing", "text": "Community nursing\n\nCommunity nursing is nursing care delivered outwith acute hospitals, for example in the home, within General Practice facilities, in community hospitals, in police custody, at a school or in a care home. \n\nThe job functions covered include:\n"}
{"id": "34505287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34505287", "title": "Comprehensive Methamphetamine Control Act of 1996", "text": "Comprehensive Methamphetamine Control Act of 1996\n\nThe Comprehensive Methamphetamine Control Act of 1996 is a bill (S. 1965) enacted into law (PL 104-237) by the 104th Congress of the United States. It mandated registration of persons trading in list I chemicals from the DEA list of chemicals A fee for such registration was initially $595 but later reduced to $116. It is regarded as one of the major drug laws in the United States.\n\nThe Comprehensive Methamphetamine Control Act was composed as five titles sanctioning legislative authority for the control, exportation, importation, and manufacturing of methamphetamine substances and precursor chemicals.\n"}
{"id": "55121208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55121208", "title": "Danish Headache Center", "text": "Danish Headache Center\n\nThe Danish Headache Center (DHC), Department of Neurology, Rigshospitalet is located in Glostrup, Copenhagen and is one of the leading headache centers in the world; it was founded in 2001. DHC offers highly specialized and multidisciplinary treatment of severe and rare headaches and facial pain disorders. Additionally, DHC is involved in advanced research covering preclinical experimental \"in vitro\" and \"in vivo\" models as well as experimental human headache models, human genetics and epidemiology and development of new treatment approaches. DHC encompasses around 25 clinical staff members, more than 30 researchers who publish around 60 peer-reviewed papers and 5 PhD theses per year. Professor Dr. Rigmor Jensen is the director of the DHC; Dr. Jes Olesen also plays a significant role. Messoud Ashina is the director of the Human Migraine Research Unit at the center. A new DHC building was announced in December 2016 after consultation with both patients and staff, and was inaugurated in the beginning of 2018.\n"}
{"id": "5513972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5513972", "title": "Data monitoring committee", "text": "Data monitoring committee\n\nA data monitoring committee (DMC) – sometimes called a data and safety monitoring board (DSMB) – is an independent group of experts who monitor patient safety and treatment efficacy data while a clinical trial is ongoing.\n\nMany randomized clinical trials are double blind – no one involved with the trial knows what treatment is to be given to each trial participant. Blinding includes the participant, their doctor, and even the study personnel at the company or organization sponsoring the trial. Blinding is breached and true assignments disclosed only after the trial database is finalized.\n\nClinical trials may test an unknown procedure or may continue for years, and there is justifiable concern about enrolling participants and exposing them to an unproven treatment without ongoing oversight of the preliminary results. The DMC is a group (typically 3 to 7 members) who are independent of the entity conducting the trial. At least one DMC member will be a statistician. Clinicians knowledgeable about the disease indication should be represented, as well as clinicians knowledgeable in the fields of any major suspected safety effects. Ethicists or representatives from a patient advocacy group may be included, particularly for research involving vulnerable populations. The DMC will convene at predetermined intervals (depending on the type of study) to review unblinded results. The DMC has the power to recommend continuation or termination of the study based on the evaluation of these results. There are typically three reasons a DMC might recommend termination of the study: safety concerns, outstanding benefit, and futility.\n\nThe primary mandate of the DMC is to protect patient safety. If adverse events of a particularly serious type are more common in the experimental arm compared to the control arm, then the DMC would have to strongly consider termination of the study. This evaluation has to be made in consideration of risk/benefit. In many cases, the experimental arm could cause serious adverse events (chemotherapy, for example), but the resulting improvement in survival outweighs these adverse events.\n\nIn the fortunate situation that the experimental arm is shown to be undeniably superior to the control arm the DMC may recommend termination of the trial. This would allow the company sponsoring the trial to get regulatory approval earlier and to allow the superior treatment to get to the patient population earlier. There are cautions here though. The statistical evidence needs to be very high indeed. Also, there might be other reasons to continue, such as collecting more long-term safety data.\n\nFutility is not as widely recognized as safety and benefit, but actually can be the most common reason to stop a trial. As an example, suppose a trial is one-half completed, but the experimental arm and the control arm have nearly identical results. It's likely in no one's interest to have this trial continue. It is extremely unlikely that the trial, should it continue to its normal end, would have the statistical evidence needed to convince a regulatory agency to approve the treatment. The company sponsoring the study could save money for other projects by abandoning this trial. Also, current and potential trial participants could be freed to take other treatments, rather than this experimental treatment which is unlikely to benefit them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47716569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47716569", "title": "Dental care in adolescent Australians", "text": "Dental care in adolescent Australians\n\nThe dental care in adolescent Australians is overall good. Studies have shown that the majority of the children in some regions of Australia are receiving the dental care that they need. However, other studies have shown that the children and young adults still encounter poor quality dental care, and some do not have access to a dentist due to financial barriers. Children in the lower income groups were the most likely to not receive the dental care they needed because of the cost of the treatment. There are several things that the adolescents can do in order to stay proactive in healthy dental hygiene. Young Australians today have less tooth decay because of fluoride. Natural fluoride found in water has significantly increased the dental health of the adolescents, and decreased the tooth-aches. For those that do not have access to water with fluoride due to the area in which they live in, they can use alternatives such as toothpaste that does contain fluoride.\n\nThe Australian Institute of Health and Welfare conducts periodical surveys of the dental health of Australian children and teenagers. The Institute's 2010 survey found that the majority of Australian children had good dental health, with 70% of children making a dental visit in the previous 12 months, and 84% of these visiting for a check-up. However, it also found that:\n\n\nLevels of dental health also vary across demographics. In particular, Indigenous Australians tend to score worse on almost every dental health indicator, relative to their non-Indigenous counterparts.\n\nCarbohydrate intake, accumulation and retention of plaque, frequency of exposure to dietary acids, exposure to fluoride and other trace elements, and natural protective factors such as saliva are five of the key factors that influence dental decay. Dental health is also affected by the dental, diet, and lifestyle habits of individuals, and by the fluoridation of toothpaste and drinking water.\n\nEarly childhood is an important time to establish good dental health habits (including brushing and dental visits), reducing the risk of disease and leading to better health in adulthood. However, financial constraints can lead to children in lower income households being less likely to access dental care than those in higher income households.\n\nHigh-sugar foods such muesli bars, lollies, and sugary drinks and juices can contribute to dental decay, as can refined carbohydrates found in crackers and chips. The Australian Dental Association recommends that parents limit their children's intake of these foods, in favour of healthier snacks.\n\nInternational studies have also found eating disorders in adolescents can result in negative dental health consequences. A 2015 paper suggests that the prevalence of eating disorders among Australian adolescents may be as much as 15% in females and 3% in males.\n\nSmoking, and consumption of alcohol and other drugs can begin to have a negative impact on oral health as children enter adolescence. Regular consumption of alcohol can lead to tooth decay, and smoking can result in gum damage and future oral cancers.\n\nAustralians born after 1967 were named the \"Fluoride Generation\" because they had been exposed to fluoridated water and toothpaste that contained fluoride since birth. Longitudinal studies have found that as young adults, this generation experienced half the level of decay observed in their parents' generation at the same age, and that much of the benefit of fluoridation was accrued in childhood rather than later life. , around 80% of Australians had access to fluoridated water, although this statistic varied significantly across jurisdictions.\n"}
{"id": "42054998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42054998", "title": "Enquiry into the Cost of the National Health Service", "text": "Enquiry into the Cost of the National Health Service\n\nThe Enquiry into the Cost of the National Health Service, known popularly as the Guillebaud Report, was a 1956 report of the UK Parliament into the financial efficiency of the National Health Service. The chair of the independent Committee of Enquiry, and lead author of the report, was the Cambridge economist C. W. Guillebaud.\n\nThe enquiry was called by the Conservative government and announced on 1 April 1953 by the then Health Minister, Iain Macleod. The National Health Service (NHS) had been established in 1948 and, in its first few years, costs had risen faster than anticipated. The independent enquiry would examine the long-term issues of funding the Service. The terms of reference were to examine the present and prospective financial situation of the NHS, to recommend structural changes that would improve efficiency, and to advise and recommend how the Service could maintain quality without escalating expense. Guillebaud had been Macleod's tutor at Cambridge.\n\nIn addition to Guillebaud, the committee included:\n\nFor statistical background, the committee used a memorandum published by Cambridge University Press: \"The Cost of the National Health Service in England and Wales\" by Brian Abel-Smith and Richard Titmuss.\n\nThe published report found no extravagance or inefficiency beyond the inevitable imperfections of any organisation. It recommended no structural changes to the National Health Service. It found that the cost of the Service was not escalating as rapidly as had been feared, once inflation was taken into account. It called for more public funding for hospital modernisation, recommending £30 million pounds per year for seven years from 1958 onwards. It also recommended increased funding for community care.\n\nThe committee concluded that charges for dental treatment and for spectacles were undesirable. Citing the shortage of dentists, the report recommended keeping the dental charges but reducing the charges for spectacles as soon as resources allowed. The committee were divided about prescription charges that the Government had introduced in 1952. The report said that they \"hindered the proper use of the Service by at least the great majority of its potential users\" but still recommended that they be kept.\n\nThe committee rejected the idea that there was a natural limit to the demand on the NHS. Instead they argued that the \"acceptable\" level of performance would rise indefinitely: \"The advance of medical science continually places new demands on the Service, and the standards expected by the public also continue to rise.\"\n\nOn its publication in 1956, Minister for Health Robin Turton told Parliament that the Government \"broadly accepted\" the conclusions of the Enquiry.\n\nAn editorial in \"The Times\" said the report might superficially seem to be \"a bluebook \nfull of hogwash\" but that in fact the committee had \"argued their case with considerable thoroughness.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18936112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18936112", "title": "Ethylene glycol poisoning", "text": "Ethylene glycol poisoning\n\nEthylene glycol poisoning is poisoning caused by drinking ethylene glycol. Early symptoms include intoxication, vomiting and abdominal pain. Later symptoms may include a decreased level of consciousness, headache, and seizures. Long term outcomes may include kidney failure and brain damage. Toxicity and death may occur after drinking even a small amount.\nEthylene glycol is a colorless, odorless, sweet liquid, commonly found in antifreeze. It may be drunk accidentally or purposefully in an attempt to cause death. When broken down by the body it results in glycolic acid and oxalic acid which cause most of the toxicity. The diagnosis may be suspected when calcium oxalate crystals are seen in the urine or when acidosis or an increased osmol gap is present in the blood. Diagnosis may be confirmed by measuring ethylene glycol levels in the blood; however, many hospitals do not have the ability to perform this test.\nEarly treatment increases the chance of a good outcome. Treatment consists of stabilizing the person, followed by the use of an antidote. The preferred antidote is fomepizole with ethanol used if this is not available. Hemodialysis may also be used in those where there is organ damage or a high degree of acidosis. Other treatments may include sodium bicarbonate, thiamine, and magnesium.\nMore than 5000 cases of poisoning occur in the United States each year. Those affected are often adults and male. Deaths from ethylene glycol have been reported as early as 1930. An outbreak of deaths in 1937 due to a medication mixed in a similar compound, diethylene glycol, resulted in the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938 in the United States which mandated evidence of safety before new medications could be sold. Antifreeze products sometimes have a substance to make it bitter added to discourage drinking by children and other animals but this has not been found to be effective.\n\nSigns of ethylene glycol poisoning depend upon the time after ingestion. Symptoms usually follow a three-step progression, although poisoned individuals will not always develop each stage.\n\nThe most common source of ethylene glycol is automotive antifreeze or radiator coolant, where concentrations are high. Other sources of ethylene glycol include windshield deicing agents, brake fluid, motor oil, developing solutions for hobby photographers, wood stains, solvents, and paints. Some people put antifreeze into their cabin’s toilet to prevent it from freezing during the winter, resulting in toxicities when animals drink from the toilet. Small amounts of ethylene glycol may be contained in holiday ornaments such as snow globes.\n\nThe most significant source of ethylene glycol is from aircraft de-icing and anti-icing operations, where it is released onto land and eventually to waterways near airports experiencing cold winter climates. It is also used in manufacturing polyester products. In 2006, approximately 1540 kilotonnes of ethylene glycol were manufactured in Canada by three companies in Alberta, with most of the production destined for export.\n\nThe three main systems affected by ethylene glycol poisoning are the central nervous system, metabolic processes, and the kidneys. The central nervous system is affected early in the course of poisoning as the result of a direct action of ethylene glycol. Similar to ethanol, it causes intoxication, followed by drowsiness or coma. Seizures may occur due to a direct effect. The toxic mechanism of ethylene glycol poisoning is mainly due to the metabolites of ethylene glycol. Initially it is metabolized by alcohol dehydrogenase to glycolaldehyde, which is then oxidized to glycolic acid by aldehyde dehydrogenase. The increase in metabolites may cause encephalopathy or cerebral edema. The metabolic effects occur 12 to 36 hours post ingestion, causing primarily metabolic acidosis which is due mainly to accumulated glycolic acid. Additionally, as a side effect of the first two steps of metabolism, an increase in the blood concentration of lactic acid occurs contributing to lactic acidosis. The formation of acid metabolites also causes inhibition of other metabolic pathways, such as oxidative phosphorylation.\n\nThe kidney toxicity of ethylene glycol occurs 24 to 72 hours post ingestion and is caused by a direct cytotoxic effect of glycolic acid. The glycolic acid is then metabolized to glyoxylic acid and finally to oxalic acid. Oxalic acid binds with calcium to form calcium oxalate crystals which may deposit and cause damage to many areas of the body including the brain, heart, kidneys, and lungs. The most significant effect is accumulation of calcium oxalate crystals in the kidneys which causes kidney damage leading to oliguric or anuric acute kidney failure. The rate-limiting step in this cascade is the conversion of glycolic to glyoxylic acid. Accumulation of glycolic acid in the body is mainly responsible for toxicity.\n\nEthylene glycol has been shown to be toxic to humans and is also toxic to domestic pets such as cats and dogs. A toxic dose requiring medical treatment varies but is considered more than 0.1 mL per kg body weight (mL/kg) of pure substance. That is roughly 16 mL of 50% ethylene glycol for an 80 kg adult and 4 mL for a 20 kg child. Poison control centers often use more than a lick or taste in a child or more than a mouthful in an adult as a dose requiring hospital assessment.\n\nThe orally lethal dose in humans has been reported as approximately 1.4 mL/kg of pure ethylene glycol. That is approximately 224 mL (7.6 oz.) of 50% ethylene glycol for an 80 kg adult and 56 mL (2 oz.) for a 20 kg child. Although survival with medical treatment has occurred with doses much higher than this, death has occurred with 30 mL of the concentrate in an adult. In the EU classification of dangerous substances it is 'harmful' (Xn) while more toxic substances are classified as 'toxic' (T) or 'very toxic' (T+). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency generally puts substances which are lethal at more than 30 g to adults in Toxicity Class III.\n\nEthylene glycol has a low vapor pressure; it does not evaporate readily at normal temperatures and therefore high concentrations in air or intoxication are unlikely to occur following inhalational exposures. There may be a slight risk of poisoning where mists or fogs are generated, although this rarely leads to poisoning as ethylene glycol causes irritation and coughing when breathed in, alerting victims to its presence. Ethylene glycol is not well absorbed through skin meaning poisoning following dermal exposure is also uncommon.\n\nAs many of the clinical signs and symptoms of ethylene glycol poisoning are nonspecific and occur in many poisonings the diagnosis is often difficult. It is most reliably diagnosed by the measurement of the blood ethylene glycol concentration. Ethylene glycol in biological fluids can be determined by gas chromatography. Many hospital laboratories do not have the ability to perform this blood test and in the absence of this test the diagnosis must be made based on the clinical presentation of the patient. In this situation a helpful test to diagnose poisoning is the measurement of the osmolal gap. The patients' serum osmolality is measured by freezing point depression and then compared with the predicted osmolality based on the patients' measured sodium, glucose, blood urea nitrogen, and any ethanol that may have been ingested. The presence of a large osmolal gap supports a diagnosis of ethylene glycol poisoning. However, a normal osmolar gap does not rule out ethylene glycol exposure because of wide individual variability.\n\nThe increased osmolal gap is caused by the ethylene glycol itself. As the metabolism of ethylene glycol progresses there will be less ethylene glycol and this will decrease the blood ethylene glycol concentration and the osmolal gap making this test less useful. Additionally, the presence of other alcohols such as ethanol, isopropanol, or methanol or conditions such as alcoholic or diabetic ketoacidosis, lactic acidosis, or kidney failure may also produce an elevated osmolal gap leading to a false diagnosis.\n\nOther laboratory abnormalities may suggest poisoning, especially the presence of a metabolic acidosis, particularly if it is characterized by a large anion gap. Large anion gap acidosis is usually present during the initial stage of poisoning. However, acidosis has a large number of differential diagnosis, including poisoning from methanol, salicylates, iron, isoniazid, paracetamol, theophylline, or from conditions such as uremia or diabetic and alcoholic ketoacidosis. The diagnosis of ethylene glycol poisoning should be considered in any patient with a severe acidosis. Urine microscopy can reveal needle or envelope-shaped calcium oxalate crystals in the urine which can suggest poisoning; although these crystals may not be present until the late stages of poisoning. Finally, many commercial radiator antifreeze products have fluorescein added to enable radiator leaks to be detected using a Wood's lamp. Following ingestion of antifreeze products containing ethylene glycol and fluorescein, a Wood's lamp may reveal fluorescence of a patient’s mouth area, clothing, vomitus, or urine which can help to diagnose poisoning.\n\nAntifreeze products for automotive use containing propylene glycol in place of ethylene glycol are available, and are generally considered safer to use, as it possesses an unpleasant taste in contrast to the perceived \"sweet\" taste of toxic ethylene glycol-based coolants, and only produces lactic acid in an animal's body, as their muscles do when exercised.\n\nWhen using antifreeze products containing ethylene glycol, recommended safety measures include:\n\nThe most important initial treatment for ethylene glycol poisoning is stabilizing the patient. As ethylene glycol is rapidly absorbed, gastric decontamination is unlikely to be of benefit unless it is performed within 60 minutes of ingestion. Traditionally, gastric lavage or nasogastric aspiration of gastric contents are the most common methods employed in ethylene glycol poisoning. The usefulness of gastric lavage has, however, been questioned, and it is now no longer used routinely in poisoning situations. Ipecac-induced vomiting is not recommended. As activated charcoal does not adsorb glycols, it is not recommended as it will not be effective at preventing absorption. It is only used in the presence of a toxic dose of another poison or drug. Patients with significant poisoning often present in a critical condition. In this situation stabilization of the patient including airway management with intubation should be performed in preference to gastrointestinal decontamination. Patients presenting with metabolic acidosis or seizures require treatment with sodium bicarbonate and anticonvulsives such as a benzodiazepine respectively. Sodium bicarbonate should be used cautiously as it can worsen hypocalcemia by increasing the plasma protein binding of calcium. If hypocalcemia occurs it can be treated with calcium replacement although calcium supplementation can increase the precipitation of calcium oxalate crystals leading to tissue damage. Intubation and respiratory support may be required in severely intoxicated patients; patients with hypotension require treatment with intravenous fluids and possibly vasopressors.\n\nFollowing decontamination and the institution of supportive measures, the next priority is inhibition of further ethylene glycol metabolism using antidotes. The antidotes for ethylene glycol poisoning are ethanol and fomepizole. This antidotal treatment forms the mainstay of management of ethylene glycol poisoning. The toxicity of ethylene glycol comes from its metabolism to glycolic acid and oxalic acid. The goal of pharmacotherapy is to prevent the formation of these metabolites. Ethanol acts by competing with ethylene glycol for alcohol dehydrogenase, the first enzyme in the degradation pathway. Because ethanol has a much higher affinity for alcohol dehydrogenase, about a 100-times greater affinity, it successfully blocks the breakdown of ethylene glycol into glycolaldehyde, which prevents the further degradation. Without oxalic acid formation, the nephrotoxic effects can be avoided, but the ethylene glycol is still present in the body. It is eventually excreted in the urine, but supportive therapy for the CNS depression and metabolic acidosis will be required until the ethylene glycol concentrations fall below toxic limits. Pharmaceutical grade ethanol is usually given intravenously as a 5 or 10% solution in 5% dextrose, but it is also sometimes given orally in the form of a strong spirit such as whisky, vodka, or gin.\n\nFomepizole is a potent inhibitor of alcohol dehydrogenase; similar to ethanol, it acts to block the formation of the toxic metabolites. Fomepizole has been shown to be highly effective as an antidote for ethylene glycol poisoning. It is the only antidote approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of ethylene glycol poisoning. Both antidotes have advantages and disadvantages. Ethanol is readily available in most hospitals, is inexpensive, and can be administered orally as well as intravenously. Its adverse effects include intoxication, hypoglycemia in children, and possible liver toxicity. Patients receiving ethanol therapy also require frequent blood ethanol concentration measurements and dosage adjustments to maintain a therapeutic ethanol concentration. Patients therefore must be monitored in an intensive care unit. Alternatively, the adverse side effects of fomepizole are minimal and the approved dosing regimen maintains therapeutic concentrations without the need to monitor blood concentrations of the drug. The disadvantage of fomepizole is that it is expensive. Costing US$1,000 per gram, an average course used in an adult poisoning would cost approximately $3,500 to $4,000. Despite the cost, fomepizole is gradually replacing ethanol as the antidote of choice in ethylene glycol poisoning. Adjunct agents including thiamine and pyridoxine are often given, because they may help prevent the formation of oxalic acid. The use of these agents is based on theoretical observations and there is limited evidence to support their use in treatment; they may be of particular benefit in people who could be deficient in these vitamins such as malnourished or alcoholic patients.\n\nIn addition to antidotes, an important treatment for poisoning is the use of hemodialysis. Hemodialysis is used to enhance the removal of unmetabolized ethylene glycol, as well as its metabolites from the body. It has been shown to be highly effective in the removal of ethylene glycol and its metabolites from the blood. Hemodialysis also has the added benefit of correcting other metabolic derangements or supporting deteriorating kidney function. Hemodialysis is usually indicated in patients with severe metabolic acidosis (blood pH less than 7.3), kidney failure, severe electrolyte imbalance, or if the patient's condition is deteriorating despite treatment. Often both antidotal treatment and hemodialysis are used together in the treatment of poisoning. Because hemodialysis will also remove the antidotes from the blood, doses of antidotes need to be increased to compensate. If hemodialysis is not available, then peritoneal dialysis also removes ethylene glycol, although less efficiently.\n\nTreatment for antifreeze poisoning needs to be started as soon after ingestion as possible to be effective; the earlier treatment is started, the greater the chance of survival. Cats must be treated within 3 hours of ingesting of antifreeze to be effective, while dogs must be treated within 8–12 hours of ingestion. Once kidney failure develops, the prognosis is poor.\n\nGenerally, if the patient is treated and survives then a full recovery is expected. Patients who present early to medical facilities and have prompt medical treatment typically will have a favorable outcome. Alternatively, patients presenting late with signs and symptoms of coma, hyperkalemia, seizures, or severe acidosis have a poor prognosis. Patients who develop severe central nervous system manifestations or stroke who survive may have long term neurologic dysfunction; in some cases they may recover, although convalescence may be prolonged. The most significant long-term complication is related to the kidneys. Cases of permanent kidney damage, often requiring chronic dialysis or kidney transplantation, have been reported after severe poisoning.\n\nEthylene glycol poisoning is a relatively common occurrence worldwide. Human poisoning often occurs in isolated cases, but may also occur in epidemics. Many cases of poisoning are the result of using ethylene glycol as a cheap substitute for alcohol or intentional ingestions in suicide attempts. Less commonly it has been used as a means of homicide. Children or animals may be exposed by accidental ingestion; children and animals often consume large amounts due to ethylene glycol having a sweet taste. In the United States there were 5816 cases reported to poison centers in 2002. Additionally, ethylene glycol was the most common chemical responsible for deaths reported by US poison centers in 2003. In Australia there were 17 cases reported to the Victorian poison center and 30 cases reported to the New South Wales poison center in 2007. However, these numbers may underestimate actual numbers because not all cases attributable to ethylene glycol are reported to poison control centers. Most deaths from ethylene glycol are intentional suicides; deaths in children due to unintentional ingestion are extremely rare.\n\nIn an effort to prevent poisoning, often a bittering agent called denatonium benzoate, known by the trade name Bitrex, is added to ethylene glycol preparations as an adversant to prevent accidental or intentional ingestion. The bittering agent is thought to stop ingestion as part of the human defense against ingestion of harmful substances is rejection of bitter tasting substances. In the United States, eight states (Oregon, California, New Mexico, Virginia, Arizona, Maine, Tennessee, Washington) have made the addition of bittering agents to antifreeze compulsory. Three follow up studies targeting limited populations or suicidal persons to assess the efficacy of bittering agents in preventing toxicity or death have, however, shown limited benefit of bittering ethylene glycol preparations in these two populations. Specifically, Mullins finds that bittering of antifreeze does not reduce reported cases of poisoning of preschoolers in the US state of Oregon. Similarly, White found that adding bittering agents did not decrease the frequency or severity of antifreeze poisonings in children under the age of 5. Additionally, another study by White found that suicidal persons are not deterred by the bittered taste of antifreeze in their attempts to kill themselves. These studies did not focus on poisoning of domestic pets or livestock, for example, or inadvertent exposure to bittered antifreeze among a large population (of non-preschool age children).\n\nPoisoning of a raccoon was diagnosed in 2002 in Prince Edward Island, Canada. An online veterinary manual provides information on lethal doses of ethylene glycol for chicken, cattle, as well as cats and dogs, adding that younger animals may be more susceptible.\n\nEthylene glycol was once thought innocuous; in 1931 it was suggested as being suitable for use as a vehicle or solvent for injectable pharmaceutical preparations. Numerous cases of poisoning have been reported since then, and it has been shown to be toxic to humans.\n\nEthylene glycol involved in aircraft de-icing and anti-icing operations is released onto land and eventually to waterways. A report prepared for the World Health Organization in 2000 stated that laboratory tests exposing aquatic organisms to stream water receiving runoff from airports have shown toxic effects and death (p. 12). Field studies in the vicinity of an airport have reported toxic signs consistent with ethylene glycol poisoning, fish kills, and reduced biodiversity, although those effects could not definitively be ascribed to ethylene glycol (p. 12). The process of biodegrading of glycols also increases the risk to organisms, as oxygen levels become depleted in surface waters (p. 13). Another study found the toxicity to aquatic and other organisms was relatively low, but the oxygen-depletion effect of biodegradation was more serious (p. 245). Further, \"Anaerobic biodegradation may also release relatively toxic byproducts such as acetaldehyde, ethanol, acetate, and methane (p. 245).\"\n\nIn Canada, Environment Canada reports that \"in recent years, management practices at Canada’s major airports have improved with the installation of new ethylene glycol application and mitigation facilities or improvements to existing ones.\" Since 1994, federal airports must comply with the Glycol Guidelines of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, monitoring and reporting on concentrations of glycols in surface water. Detailed mitigation plans include storage and handling issues (p. 27), spill response procedures, and measures taken to reduce volumes of fluid (p. 28). Considering factors such as the \"seasonal nature of releases, ambient temperatures, metabolic rates and duration of exposure\", Environment Canada stated in 2014 that \"it is proposed that ethylene glycol is not entering the environment in a quantity or concentration or under conditions that have or may have an immediate or long-term harmful effect on the environment or its biological diversity\".\n\nIn the U.S., airports are required to obtain stormwater discharge permits and ensure that wastes from deicing operations are properly collected and treated. Large new airports may be required to collect 60 percent of aircraft deicing fluid after deicing. Airports that discharge the collected aircraft deicing fluid directly to waters of the U.S. must also meet numeric discharge requirements for chemical oxygen demand. A report in 2000 stated that ethylene glycol was becoming less popular for aircraft deicing in the U.S., due to its reporting requirements and adverse environmental impacts (p. 213), and noted a shift to the use of propylene glycol (p. I-3).\n\nOnce kidney failure has developed in dogs and cats, the outcome is poor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46273841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46273841", "title": "General Health Questionnaire", "text": "General Health Questionnaire\n\nThe General Health Questionnaire (GHQ) is a psychometric screening tool to identify common psychiatric conditions.\n\nIt has been translated and validated in at least two languages in addition to English, including Spanish and Persian.\n\nThe questionnaire comprises a number of questions, each with a four-point Likert scale for responses. There are versions with 12, 28, 30 and 60 questions. It is considered valid for use on adults and adolescents, but not children, and is available on purchase.\n"}
{"id": "4834113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4834113", "title": "Gynecologic pathology", "text": "Gynecologic pathology\n\nGynecologic pathology is the medical pathology subspecialty dealing with the study and diagnosis of disease involving the female genital tract. A physician who practices gynecologic pathology is a gynecologic pathologist. The term originates from the Greek gyno-(gynaikos) meaning \"woman\" and the suffix -ology, meaning \"study of\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12250610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12250610", "title": "Healthcare in Uganda", "text": "Healthcare in Uganda\n\nUganda's health system is composed of health services delivered to the public sector, by private providers, and by traditional and complementary health practitioners. It also includes community-based health care and health promotion activities.\n\nThe not-for-profit providers are run on a national and local basis and 78% are religiously based. Three main providers include the Uganda Catholic Medical Bureau, Uganda Protestant Medical Bureau, and the Uganda Muslim Medical Bureau. Nongovernmental organizations have emerged as the prominent not-for-profit organizations for HIV/AIDS counseling and treatment. The for-profit providers include clinics and informal drug stores. Formal providers include medical and dental practitioners, nurses and midwives, pharmacies, and allied health professionals. Traditional providers include herbalists, spiritual healers, traditional birth attendants, hydro therapists, etc.\n\nUganda's health system is divided into national and district-based levels. At the national level are the national referral hospitals, regional referral hospitals, and semi-autonomous institutions including the Uganda Blood Transfusion Services, the Uganda National Medical Stores, the Uganda Public Health Laboratories and the Uganda National Health Research Organization (UNHRO). The aim of Uganda's health system is to deliver the national minimum health care package. Uganda runs a decentralized health system with national and district levels.\n\nThe lowest rung of the district-based health system consists of Village Health Teams (VHTs). These are volunteer community health workers who deliver predominantly health education, preventive services, and simple curative services in communities. They constitute level 1 health services. The next level is Health Center II, which is an out patient service run by a nurse. It is intended to serve 5000 people. Next in level is Health Center III (HCIII) which serves 10,000 people and provides in addition to HC II services, in patient, simple diagnostic, and maternal health services. It is managed by a clinical officer. Above HC III is the Health Center IV, run by a medical doctor and providing surgical services in addition to all the services provided at HC III. HC IV is also intended to provide blood transfusion services and comprehensive emergency obstetric care.\n\nIn terms of governance, the MOH is currently implementing the HSSIP, which is the third iteration of health sector strategies. The MOH coordinates stakeholders and is responsible for planning, budgeting, policy formulation, and regulation.\n\nAccording to a 2006 published report, the health sector at the district and sub-district level is governed by the district health management team (DHMT). The DHMT is led by the district health officer (DHO) and consists of managers of various health departments in the district. The heads of health sub-districts (HC IV managers) are included on the DHMT. The DHMT oversees implementation of health services in the district, ensuring coherence with national policies. A Health Unit Management Committee (HUMC) composed of health staff, civil society, and community leaders is charged with linking health facility governance with community needs.\n\nIn addition, the Uganda Medical Association (UMA) seeks to \"provide programs that support the social welfare and professional interests of medical doctors in Uganda and to promote universal access to quality health and health care.\" However, the government's failure to improve the compensation of doctors , as well as failing to conduct a review of the supply of medicines and other equipment in health centres across the country, led to a UMA strike in November 2017, effectively paralysing Uganda's health system.\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century, the government of Uganda began implementing a series of health sector reforms that were aimed at improving the poor health indicators prevailing at the time. A Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp) was introduced in 2001 to consolidate health financing. Another demand side reform introduced in the same year was the abolition of user fees at public health facilities, which triggered a surge in outpatient attendances across the country.\n\nDecentralization of health services began in the mid-1990s alongside wider devolution of all public administration, and was sealed in 1998 with the definition of the health sub-district. Implementation of the health sub district concept extended into the early 2000s.\n\nTo improve medicines management and availability, the government of Uganda made medicines available to private-not-for-profit (PNFP) providers. With decentralization of health services, a \"pull\" system was instituted in which district and health facility managers were granted autonomy to procure medicines they needed in the required quantities from the national medical stores, within pre-set financial earmarks. The result was better availability of medicines.\n\nA comprehensive review of Uganda's Health System conducted in 2011 by USAID uncovered strengths and weaknesses of the health system, organized around the six technical building blocks of health system that were defined by the WHO. In summary, the assessment found that whereas significant efforts are being implemented to qualitatively and quantitatively improve health in Uganda, more needs to be done to focus on the poor, improve engagement of the private-for-profit sector, enhance efficiency, strengthen stakeholder coordination, improve service quality, and stimulate consumer-based advocacy for better health.\n\nThe Ministry of Health (MOH) also conducts annual health sector performance appraisals that assess health system performance and monitor progress in delivery of the UNMHCP. The 2011 USAID report assessing Uganda's health care system pointed to the fact that the UNMHCP often sets health sector targets and activities without an adequate analysis of the costs involved or the implementation of measures to allocate required resources appropriately.\n\nA number of factors affect the quality of services in Uganda, including the shortage of healthcare workers and lack of trust in them, a lack of needed treatments, high costs, and long distances to facilities. In 2009, a survey conducted of Ugandan patients indicated a decline in the performance of the public sector health services. These were indicated through comments about poor sanitation, a lack of professionals and drugs and equipment, long wait times, inadequate preventative care, a poor referral system, rude health workers, and lack of services for vulnerable populations like the poor and elderly. The quality of services affects utilization in different ways, including preventing patients from seeking out delivery services or leading them to see traditional providers, self-medicate, and decide not to seek formal care or seeing private providers.\n\nThere is a significant shortage of health workers in Uganda. A Human Resources for Health Policy is in place to guide recruitment, deployment, and retention of health staff. In spite of this, shortages of health workers persist. According to a 2009 published report, there is one doctor for every 7,272 Ugandans. The related statistic is 1:36,810 for nurse/midwifery professionals. The shortages are worse in rural areas where 80 percent of the population resides, as 70 percent of all doctors are practicing in urban areas. There are 61 institutions that train health workers, with five medical colleges, twenty-seven allied health training schools, and twenty nine nursing schools.\n\nCommunity health worker training has increased since the 2000s. The Ugandan Ministry of Health implemented the Village Health Teams (VHT) Training Program to develop community health workers who connect rural communities to health facilities and aid in the spread of preventative knowledge about malaria, pneumonia, worm infestations, diarrhea, and neglected tropical disease. VHTs have also aided in health campaigns and disease surveillance. Nongovernmental organizations, such as Health Child Uganda and Omni Med, have also been working with the Ministry of Health to train and maintain VHTs.\n\nAn assessment of VHT abilities led to the creation of a Community Health Extension Worker (CHEW) Program, which involves the training of health workers for a year in all districts of the nation.Unlike VHTs, CHEWs will possess elevated skills in addressing the health needs of their communities, will be based at the Health Center II level. The CHEW program is planned for implementation in 2017 and 2018.\n\nTotal public and private health expenditure per capita was US$59 in 2013. Public financing for health was 4.3 percent of GDP in 2013, well below the target of 15 percent set in the 2001 Abuja Declaration.\nSee also Health in Uganda\n\nIn 2006, there were 3,237 health facilities in Uganda. Seventy-one percent were public entities, 21 percent were not-for-profit organizations, and 9 percent were for-profit. The doubling in public and not-for-profit facilities was primarily driven by the government’s initiative to improve access to services. However, 68 percent of these services are located in the capital Kampala and the surrounding central region, while rural areas face a gross shortage of such facilities.\n\nAccording to the Uganda National Household Survey 2012/2013, the majority of those who sought health care first visited a private hospital orclinic (37 percent) or a government health centre (35 percent). Twenty-two percent of the urban population used government health centers, while that proportion rose to 39 percent in the rural areas. Thirty-five percent of government health centers visited by persons who fell sick were within a radius of from the population.\n\nUganda has the second-highest fertility rate in the East African Community, behind only Burundi. According to 2014 data, a Ugandan woman, on average, gives birth to 5.8 children during her lifetime compared to 7.1 in 1969 and 6.8 in 2001. The age-specific fertility rates indicate that fertility peaks when women are aged between 20 and 24 years and then declines slowly until age 34. According to 2011 data, the fertility rate in urban areas (3.8 per woman) was significantly lower than in rural areas (6.7 per woman).\n\nBased on 2012 data, 30 percent of married Ugandan women are using some method of contraception, with 26 percent using modern contraceptive methods (MCM), such as female and male sterilization, pill, intrauterine device, injectables, implants, male condom, diaphragm, and the lactational amenorrhea method. MCM were used by only 8 percent of married Ugandan women in 1995. There is a gap between the demand for contraception and the amount of contraception being made available. Several organisations are providing health education and contraceptive services.\n\nAntenatal care (ANC) coverage in Uganda in 2011 was almost universal with more than 95 percent of women attending at least one visit. Only 48 percent of women, however, attended the recommended four visits. Deliveries in health facilities accounted for about 57 percent of all deliveries, far below the number of women who attend at least one ANC visit. That percentage had risen from 41 percent between 2006 and 2011.\n\nOnly one-third of women received postnatal care (PCN) in the first two days after delivery. In 2011, only two percent of mothers received a PNC check up in the first hour for all births in two years before the 2011 Uganda Demographic Household Survey.\n\nTable: Uganda Trends in Selected SRH indicators\n\nSexual health in Uganda is affected by the prevalence of HIV, sexually transmitted infections (STI), poor health-seeking behaviours regarding STIs, violence, and female genital mutilation that affect female sexuality in isolated communities in the north-eastern part of the country. As of 2015, Uganda's national HIV prevalence rate was 7.2 percent among adults aged 15–59 years, representing an increase from 6.7 percent in 2005. Prevention now includes voluntary male circumcision, although sexual behaviors among circumcised men need more understanding. As of April 2018, there was an estimated 1,350,000 people living with HIV/AIDS in Uganda.\n\nUganda is one of the three countries where randomized controlled trials were conducted to determine whether voluntary male circumcision reduces transmission of HIV from women to men.\n\nUganda is home to the Uganda Virus Research Institute, a viral research facility.\n\nIssues affecting men including violence, sexually transmitted diseases, prostate cancers, infertility, HIV, and non-communicable diseases that affect sexual performance. The latest intervention that could improve men's sexual health is male circumcision.\n\nThe 2015 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 births was 343, compared to 420 in 2010 and 687 in 1990. The under-five mortality rate, per 1000 births is 130, and the neonatal mortality as a percentage of under-fives' mortality is 24. In Uganda, the number of midwives per 1000 live births is 7, and 1 in 35 is the lifetime risk of death for pregnant women.\n"}
{"id": "3528012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3528012", "title": "ICD-10 Chapter V: Mental and behavioural disorders", "text": "ICD-10 Chapter V: Mental and behavioural disorders\n\nICD-10 is an international statistical classification produced by the World Health Organization. It is used in health care and related industries in several countries around the world. Some have gone on to develop their own national enhancements, building off the international version of the classification.\n\nThe fifth chapter of ICD-10 contains the \"International Classification of Mental and Behavioural Disorders.\" It is actually the official mental health system for the US as well, but even many professionals do not realize this due to the dominance of the DSM.\n\nWHO have made Chapter V available as two separate publications. The \"Clinical descriptions and diagnostic guidelines\" (or \"Blue Book\") is for clinical and general educational use. The \"Diagnostic criteria for research\" (or \"Green Book\") is intended for research purposes, and to be used in conjunction with the guidelines within it.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51330996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51330996", "title": "Internationale Zeitschrift für Psychoanalyse", "text": "Internationale Zeitschrift für Psychoanalyse\n\nThe Internationale Zeitschrift für Psychoanalyse (\"International Journal of Psychoanalysis\") was a German-language psychoanalytic journal, which was published from 1913 to 1937 and from 1939 to 1941 by the International Psychoanalytic Association.\n\nThe German-language original of Viktor Tausk's famous paper \"On the Origin of the \"Influencing Machine\" in Schizophrenia\" was first published in the \"Internationale Zeitschrift für Psychoanalyse\" in 1919.\n\nWilhelm Reich's paper \"Concerning Specific Forms of Masturbation\" () was published in the \"Internationale Zeitschrift für Psychoanalyse\" in 1922.\n\n"}
{"id": "9975926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9975926", "title": "Jaipur leg", "text": "Jaipur leg\n\nThe Jaipur Foot, also known as the Jaipur Leg, is a rubber-based prosthetic leg for people with below-knee amputations. Although inferior in many ways to the composite carbon fibre variants, its variable applicability and cost efficiency make it an acceptable choice for prosthesis. Ram Chandra Sharma designed and developed it in 1968.\n\nDesigned in and named after Jaipur, India, the prosthetic leg was designed to be inexpensive, water-resistant, and quick to fit and manufacture. The Jaipur Foot is made of polyurethane, which at the time was the new material used in the production of the prostheses. The material increases the durability and the convenience of use. Now the government of India supports Bhagwan Mahavir Viklang Sahyata Samiti with financial aid to carry out the work done by the organization. The Jaipur Foot has helped many people to overcome their leg disability.\n\nThe idea of the Jaipur Foot was conceived by Ram Chander Sharma under the guidance of Dr. P.K. Sethi, who was then the head of the Department of Orthopedics at Sawai ManSingh Medical College in Jaipur, India. \n\nIt is fitted free of cost by Bhagwan Mahavir Viklang Sahyata Samiti, founded by Devendra Raj Mehta. It costs approximately $US 45 to make.\n\nThe Jaipur Foot is superior to its SACH (Solid Ankle Cushion Heel) counterpart in certain ways, mainly in the range of movements it offers. The articulation at the 'ankle' allows not only inversion-eversion movements but also dorsiflexion (essential for squatting, standing up from prone position, etc.) and a shorter keel helps achieve this. Also, the materials used at the foot-end are waterproof and moderately mimic a real foot.\n\nThese features help a physically-challenged person assimilate more easily in a semi-urban or rural setup in the Indian subcontinent and other developing countries.\n\nSudha Chandran, an Indian actress and dancer, lost her limb in an accident in 1982. She was fitted with the Jaipur Foot and started dancing once again; her journey is the theme of the Telugu 1984 film \"Mayuri\" (Peahen), remade into a 1986 Hindi film, \"Naache Mayuri\" (Peahen Dancing). Both the films starred Sudha as the lead. \n\nP. K. Sethi was awarded the Magsaysay Award for Community Leadership in 1981, and the Padma Shri by the Government of India in 1981\nDr. D R Mehta received the Rajasthan Ratna for his contribution in Jaipur Foot in 2013 by Rajasthan Government.\n\n"}
{"id": "162143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162143", "title": "Keloid", "text": "Keloid\n\nKeloid, also known as keloid disorder and keloidal scar,\nis the formation of a type of scar which, depending on its maturity, is composed mainly of either type III (early) or type I (late) collagen. It is a result of an overgrowth of granulation tissue (collagen type 3) at the site of a healed skin injury which is then slowly replaced by collagen type 1. Keloids are firm, rubbery lesions or shiny, fibrous nodules, and can vary from pink to the color of the person's skin or red to dark brown in color. A keloid scar is benign and not contagious, but sometimes accompanied by severe itchiness, pain, and changes in texture. In severe cases, it can affect movement of skin. Keloid scars are seen 15 times more frequently in people of sub-Saharan African descent than in people of European descent.\n\nKeloids should not be confused with hypertrophic scars, which are raised scars that do not grow beyond the boundaries of the original wound.\n\nKeloids expand in claw-like growths over normal skin. They have the capability to hurt with a needle-like pain or to itch, the degree of sensation varying from person to person.\n\nIf the keloid becomes infected, it may ulcerate. Removing the scar is one treatment option; however, it may result in more severe consequences: the probability that the resulting surgery scar will also become a keloid is high, usually greater than 50%. Laser treatment has also been used with varying degrees of success.\n\nKeloids form within scar tissue. Collagen, used in wound repair, tends to overgrow in this area, sometimes producing a lump many times larger than that of the original scar. They can also range in color from pink to red. Although they usually occur at the site of an injury, keloids can also arise spontaneously. They can occur at the site of a piercing and even from something as simple as a pimple or scratch. They can occur as a result of severe acne or chickenpox scarring, infection at a wound site, repeated trauma to an area, excessive skin tension during wound closure or a foreign body in a wound. Keloids can sometimes be sensitive to chlorine. Keloid scars can grow, if they appear at a younger age, because the body is still growing.\n\nKeloids can develop in any place where skin trauma has occurred. They can be the result of pimples, insect bites, scratching, burns, or other skin injury. Keloid scars can develop after surgery.\nThey are more common in some sites, such as the central chest (from a sternotomy), the back and shoulders (usually resulting from acne), and the ear lobes (from ear piercings). They can also occur on body piercings.\nThe most common spots are earlobes, arms, pelvic region, and over the collar bone.\n\nMost skin injury types can contribute to scarring. This includes burns, acne scars, chickenpox scars, ear piercing, scratches, surgical incisions, and vaccination sites.\n\nAccording to the (US) National Center for Biotechnology Information, keloid scarring is common in young people between the ages of 10 and 20. Studies have shown that those with darker complexions are at a higher risk of keloid scarring as a result of skin trauma. They occur in 15 – 20% of individuals with sub-Saharan African, Asian or Latino ancestry, significantly less in those of a Caucasian background and there are no reported cases in patients with albinism.\nKeloids tend to have a genetic component, which means one is more likely to have keloids if one or both of their parents has them. However, no single gene has yet been identified which is a causing factor in keloid scarring but several susceptibility loci have been discovered, most notably in Chromosome 15.\n\nMost people, especially sub-saharan Africans and African Americans, have a positive family history of keloid disorder. Development of keloids among twins also lends credibility to existence of a genetic susceptibility to develop keloids. Marneros et al. (1) reported four sets of identical twins with keloids; Ramakrishnan et al. also described a pair of twins who developed keloids at the same time after vaccination. Case series have reported clinically severe forms of keloids in individuals with a positive family history and black African ethnic origin.\n\nHistologically, keloids are fibrotic tumors characterized by a collection of atypical fibroblasts with excessive deposition of extracellular matrix components, especially collagen, fibronectin, elastin, and proteoglycans. Generally, they contain relatively acellular centers and thick, abundant collagen bundles that form nodules in the deep dermal portion of the lesion. Keloids present a therapeutic challenge that must be addressed, as these lesions can cause significant pain, (itching), and physical disfigurement. They may not improve in appearance over time and can limit mobility if located over a joint.\n\nKeloids affect both sexes equally, although the incidence in young female patients has been reported to be higher than in young males, probably reflecting the greater frequency of earlobe piercing among women. \nThe frequency of occurrence is 15 times higher in highly pigmented people. African descendant people have increased risk of keloid occurrences.\n\nThe best treatment is prevention in patients with a known predisposition. This includes preventing unnecessary trauma or surgery (including ear piercing, elective mole removal), whenever possible. Any skin problems in predisposed individuals (e.g., acne, infections) should be treated as early as possible to minimize areas of inflammation.\n\nTreatment of a keloid scar is age dependent. Radiotherapy, anti-metabolites and corticoids would not be recommended to be used in children, in order to avoid harmful side effects, like growth abnormalities.\n\nIn adults, corticosteriods combined with 5-FU and PDL in a triple therapy, enhance results and diminish side effects.\n\nFurther prophylactic and therapeutic strategies include pressure therapy, silicone gel sheeting, intra-lesional triamcinolone acetonide (TAC), cryosurgery, radiation, laser therapy, IFN, 5-FU and surgical excision as well as a multitude of extracts and topical agents.\n\nSurgical excision is currently still the most common treatment for a significant amount of keloid lesions. However, when used as the solitary form of treatment there is a large recurrence rate of between 70 and 100%. It has also been known to cause a larger lesion formation on recurrence. While not always successful alone, surgical excision when combined with other therapies dramatically decreases the recurrence rate. Examples of these therapies include but are not limited to radiation therapy, pressure therapy and laser ablation. Pressure therapy following surgical excision has shown promising results, especially in keloids of the ear and earlobe. The mechanism of how exactly pressure therapy works is unknown at present but many patients with keloid scars and lesions have benefited from it.\n\nShould keloids occur, the most effective treatment is combination of cryofreeze and intralesional cryofreeze which can achieve cure rates of up to 90%..\n\nIntralesional injection with a corticosteroid such as Kenalog does appear to aid in the reduction of fibroblast activity, inflammation and pruritus.\n\nCryotherapy or cryosurgery refers to application of extreme cold to treat keloids. This treatment method is easy to perform and has shown results with least chance of recurrence.\n\nTea tree oil, salt or other topical oil has no any effect on keloid lesions. .\n\nPersons of any age can develop a keloid. Children under 10 are less likely to develop keloids, even from ear piercing. Keloids may also develop from Pseudofolliculitis barbae; continued shaving when one has razor bumps will cause irritation to the bumps, infection, and over time keloids will form. Persons with razor bumps are advised to stop shaving in order for the skin to repair itself before undertaking any form of hair removal. The tendency to form keloids is speculated to be hereditary. Keloids can tend to appear to grow over time without even piercing the skin, almost acting out a slow tumorous growth; the reason for this tendency is unknown.\n\nExtensive burns, either thermal or radiological, can lead to unusually large keloids; these are especially common in firebombing casualties, and were a signature effect of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\n\nTrue incidence and prevalence of keloid in United States is not known. Indeed, there has never been a population study to assess the epidemiology of this disorder. In his 2001 publication, Marneros stated that “reported incidence of keloids in the general population ranges from a high of 16% among the adults in Zaire to a low of 0.09% in England,” quoting from Bloom’s 1956 publication on heredity of keloids. Clinical observations show that the disorder is more common among sub-Saharan Africans, African Americans and Asians, with unreliable and very wide estimated prevalence rates ranging from 4.5-16%.\n\nKeloids were described by Egyptian surgeons around 1700 BCE, recorded in the Smith papyrus, regarding surgical techniques. Baron Jean-Louis Alibert (1768–1837) identified the keloid as an entity in 1806. He called them \"cancroïde\", later changing the name to \"chéloïde\" to avoid confusion with cancer. The word is derived from the Greek χηλή, \"chele\", meaning \"hoof\", here in the sense of \"crab pincers\", and the suffix \"-oid\", meaning \"like\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6976151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6976151", "title": "Leprosy in China", "text": "Leprosy in China\n\nLeprosy was said to be first recognized in the ancient civilizations of China, Egypt and India, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). Leprosy, also known as Hansen's disease, was officially eliminated at the national level in China by 1982, meaning prevalence is lower than 1 in 100,000. There are 3,510 active cases today. Though leprosy has been brought under control in general, the situation in some areas is worsening, according to China’s Ministry of Health. In the past, leprosy sufferers were ostracized by their communities as the disease was incurable, disfiguring and wrongly thought to be highly infectious.\n\n500,000 cases of leprosy were registered in China between 1950 and 2002. Most of these sufferers have been cured but approximately 6,000 active cases remain today and about 2,000 new cases are detected and registered every year. Many more cases are not registered, partly through ignorance, but also because of the stigma associated with the disease.\n\nThere are estimates that show that there are 200,000 people in China today who have recovered from the disease but more than half (110,000) are disabled due to the disease, with conditions ranging from blindness to disfigurement. Although these former leprosy sufferers were cured in the last 50 years, many of them still suffer serious pain and difficulties because of these disabilities/deformities and the stigma. This social stigma has become the main problem in leprosy diagnosis and treatment, today.\n\nMostly, cases of infection remain in impoverished parts in the southwestern provinces of Yunnan, Guizhou and Sichuan, and Tibet in the west and Hunan in the South. Other provinces/municipalities affected on a smaller scale, are Anhui, Qinghai, Chongqing, Guangdong and Shaanxi.\n\nContrary to popular belief, leprosy ranks lowly in terms of infectiousness and is not congenital. It is passed via respiratory droplets among people in close and prolonged contact. The transmission rate is low and 95 percent of people are naturally immune to it. Caused by the bacterium \"Mycobacterium leprae\", leprosy affects the skin, mucous membranes, peripheral nerves and eyes. As nerve damage is permanent, even those who have recovered can not feel pain. Minor cuts and abrasions on fingers and toes often turn into gaping, inflamed ulcers because of unsanitary living conditions. These open sores overrun the digits, which slowly shrink and many sufferers end up with stumps. Some have legs amputated.\n\nIn China, dapsone was used from 1946 to treat leprosy, but treatment of the disease took a leap in 1982 with the introduction of a largely successful multidrug therapy (MDT) using dapsone, rifampicin and clofazimine. Today, therapy takes six months to a year. MDT treatment has been made available by the WHO free of charge to all patients worldwide since 1995, and provides a simple yet highly effective cure for all types of leprosy. If diagnosed and treated early, the disease leaves no traces. But in some places in China, stigma still surrounds the disease and victims do not seek treatment until it is too late.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30010465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30010465", "title": "Lewis offset", "text": "Lewis offset\n\nThe Lewis offset is a term for the portion of the central groove on a permanent mandibular first molar which lies between the two central pits. It was named for long time dental anatomy instructor Dr. Christopher S. Lewis, a Mercer Island, WA dentist. \n\nThe offset lies at an angle to the mesio-distal axis of the tooth, and causes the mesial portion of the central groove to be located further buccally than the distal portion. This buccolingual shift correlates with a relative difference in size between the mesial and distal cusps on these teeth - the mesiolingual cusp is larger than the mesiobuccal cusp, but the distobuccal cusp is larger than the distolingual cusp. It also allows for the buccal groove to be located mesial to the lingual groove which is mandatory to accommodate the relative sizes of the three cusps on the buccal and two cusps on the lingual of the occlusal surface of the tooth.\n\n"}
{"id": "56332681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56332681", "title": "Lisandro Alvarado", "text": "Lisandro Alvarado\n\nLisandro Alvarado (September 19, 1858 – April 10, 1929) was a Venezuelan doctor, naturalist, historian, ethnologist and linguist.\n\nHe was born in the city of El Tocuyo, in Morán Municipality (Lara). His parents were Rafael Alvarado and Gracia Benigna Marchena. In the school La Concordia (of El Tocuyo), run by Egidio Montesinos, he received the influence of literary classics and knowledge of Latin, aspects that would be decisive in his intellectual life.\n\nIn 1871 he traveled to Trujillo to finish the baccalaureate. Soon, the lack of resources on the part of his family forced him to drop out of school and work as a pharmacist at Barquisimeto. However, in 1878 he moved to Caracas to begin medical studies. During this period he was in direct contact with the intense political life of the moment, characterized by the predominance of Antonio Guzmán Blanco. Intellectually he was able to know the doctrinal framework of positivism, represented in the teachings of Adolf Ernst and Rafael Villavicencio. In this sense, Alvarado was confronted with his religious and traditionalist vision of life with the new scientific ideas of the late nineteenth century. At first, positivism influenced his research in the field of ethnography, history, language, as well as his interest in various ancient and modern cultures. In this period Alvarado shared his scientific knowledge with César Zumeta, Luis López Méndez and José Rafael Revenga, giving information about his first works around 1882.\n\nDespite his first inclination towards the positivist doctrine, contact with Cecilio Acosta, allowed Alvarado to connect to neoclassical tendencies other than positivism. In 1881, through Acosta he was able to meet José Martí in Caracas, who had an important influence on his vision of life and science. In this sense, once he obtained his doctorate in medicine, Alvarado settled in Ospino (Portuguesa).\n\nHe traveled the country on donkey, in canoes and on foot, which allowed him to come into direct contact with Venezuelan reality: the landscapes, the vegetation, the wildlife, the customs and popular traditions, the different dialects, including the numerous indigenous people he met and whose language he could study first-hand.\n\nHe traveled to Europe as a consul and medical delegate. In 1891 he returned to the province and began the publication of a set of research papers. In this period he wrote several studies: Neurosis of famous men of Venezuela (\"Neurosis de hombres célebres de Venezuela\") (1893) and On the civil wars of the country (\"Sobre las guerras civiles del país\") (1894). He also published a series of works related to linguistics and lexicography, the first being ideas on the evolution of Spanish in Venezuela (\"Ideas sobre la evolución del español en Venezuela\") (1903), followed by Glossary of indigenous voices in Venezuela (\"Glosario de voces indígenas en Venezuela\") (1921), phonetic alterations of Spanish in Venezuela (\"Alteraciones fonéticas del español en Venezuela\") (1922, reworked in 1929) and finally his Glossary of the Spanish bass in Venezuela (\"Glosario del bajo español en Venezuela\") (1929). In 1920 he returned to Caracas to work in the Directorate of Trade Policy (of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs). In recognition of his extensive work in research, he was incorporated as an individual number in the Academy of Medicine (Academia Nacional de Medicina de Venezuela) in 1905, the Venezuelan Academy of Language in 1922 and the National Academy of History of Venezuela in 1923. His complete works in eight volumes began to be published in 1958; however, there is still an unpublished collection of his manuscripts in the custody of the National Academy of History.\n\nHe was a grade 30 Mason.\n\nSince May 14, 1980 his remains rest in the National Pantheon of Venezuela.\n"}
{"id": "3042824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3042824", "title": "Mary Pipher", "text": "Mary Pipher\n\nMary Elizabeth Pipher (born October 21, 1947), also known as Mary Bray Pipher, is an American clinical psychologist and author, most recently of \"The Green Boat\", which was published by Riverhead Books in June 2013. She received a Bachelor of Arts degree in anthropology from the University of California, Berkeley in 1969 and a PhD in clinical psychology from the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 1977. She was a Rockefeller Scholar in Residence at Bellagio in 2001. She received two American Psychological Association Presidential Citations. She returned the one she received in 2006 as a protest against the APA's acknowledgment that some of its members participate in controversial interrogation techniques at Guantánamo Bay and at US \"black sites\". Pipher participates actively in Nebraska state legislature and voices her opinion through letters to the editor of the Lincoln Journal Star. She has also written an essay to the New York Times about the difficulty of Nebraska's mixed political views and need for more progressive politicians. She strongly opposes the Keystone XL Pipeline and supported the Nebraska Legislative Bill 802, the purpose of which was to create a state task force to combat climate change, calling it \"an opportunity to educate and work through problems relating to climate change.\"\n\nShe currently resides in Lincoln, Nebraska.\n\nPipher is best known for a book she wrote in 1994, introducing the terms Ophelia complex or Ophelia syndrome, in \"Reviving Ophelia\". There she argued for a view of Shakespeare's character of Ophelia in Hamlet as lacking inner direction, and externally defined by men (father/ brother); and suggested that similar external pressures were currently faced by post-pubescent girls. The danger of the Ophelia syndrome was that of abandoning a rooted childhood self, for an apparently more sophisticated but over-externalised facade self.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1294685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1294685", "title": "Medical guideline", "text": "Medical guideline\n\nA medical guideline (also called a clinical guideline or clinical practice line) is a document with the aim of guiding decisions and criteria regarding diagnosis, management, and treatment in specific areas of healthcare. Such documents have been in use for thousands of years during the entire history of medicine. However, in contrast to previous approaches, which were often based on tradition or authority, modern medical guidelines are based on an examination of current evidence within the paradigm of evidence-based medicine. They usually include summarized consensus statements on best practice in healthcare. A healthcare provider is obliged to know the medical guidelines of his or her profession, and has to decide whether to follow the recommendations of a guideline for an individual treatment.\n\nModern clinical guidelines identify, summarize and evaluate the highest quality evidence and most current data about prevention, diagnosis, prognosis, therapy including dosage of medications, risk/benefit and cost-effectiveness. Then they define the most important questions related to clinical practice and identify all possible decision options and their outcomes. Some guidelines contain decision or computation algorithms to be followed. Thus, they integrate the identified decision points and respective courses of action with the clinical judgment and experience of practitioners. Many guidelines place the treatment alternatives into classes to help providers in deciding which treatment to use.\n\nAdditional objectives of clinical guidelines are to standardize medical care, to raise quality of care, to reduce several kinds of risk (to the patient, to the healthcare provider, to medical insurers and health plans) and to achieve the best balance between cost and medical parameters such as effectiveness, specificity, sensitivity, resolutiveness, etc. It has been demonstrated repeatedly that the use of guidelines by healthcare providers such as hospitals is an effective way of achieving the objectives listed above, although they are not the only ones.\n\nGuidelines are usually produced at national or international levels by medical associations or governmental bodies, such as the United States Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Local healthcare providers may produce their own set of guidelines or adapt them from existing top-level guidelines.\n\nSpecial computer software packages known as guideline execution engines have been developed to facilitate the use of medical guidelines in concert with an electronic medical record system. \nThe Guideline Interchange Format (GLIF) is a computer representation format for clinical guidelines that can be used with such engines.\n\nThe USA and other countries maintain medical guideline clearinghouses. In the USA, the National Guideline Clearinghouse maintains a catalog of high-quality guidelines published by various health and medical associations. In the United Kingdom, clinical practice guidelines are published primarily by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). In The Netherlands, two bodies—the (CBO) and (NHG)—have published specialist and primary care guidelines, respectively. In Germany, the German Agency for Quality in Medicine (ÄZQ) coordinates a national program for disease management guidelines. All these organisations are now members of the Guidelines International Network (G-I-N), an international network of organisations and individuals involved in clinical practice guidelines.\n\nChecklists have been used in medical practice to attempt to ensure that clinical practice guidelines are followed. An example is the Surgical Safety Checklist developed for the World Health Organization by Dr. Atul Gawande. According to a meta-analysis after introduction of the checklist mortality dropped by 23% and all complications by 40%, but further high-quality studies are required to make the meta-analysis more robust. In the UK, a study on the implementation of a checklist for provision of medical care to elderly patients admitting to hospital found that the checklist highlighted limitations with frailty assessment in acute care and motivated teams to review routine practices, but that work is needed to understand whether and how checklists can be embedded in complex multidisciplinary care.\n\nGuidelines may lose their clinical relevance as they age and newer research emerges. Even 20% of strong recommendations, especially when based on opinion rather than trials, from practice guidelines may be retracted.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported in 2004 that some simple clinical practice guidelines are not routinely followed to the extent they might be. It has been found that providing a nurse or other medical assistant with a checklist of recommended procedures can result in the attending physician being reminded in a timely manner regarding procedures that might have been overlooked.\n\nGuidelines may have both methodological problems and conflict of interest. As such, the quality of guidelines may vary substantially, especially for guidelines that are published on-line and have not had to follow methodological reporting standards often required by reputable clearinghouses.\n\nGuidelines may make recommendations that are stronger than the supporting evidence.\n\nIn response to many of these problems with traditional guidelines, the BMJ created a new series of trustworthy guidelines focused on the most pressing medical issues called \"BMJ\" Rapid Recommendations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55515563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55515563", "title": "Mental Health Care Act, 2017", "text": "Mental Health Care Act, 2017\n\nIn India, the Mental Health Care Act 2017 was passed on 7 April 2017 and came into force from July 7, 2018. The law was described in its opening paragraph as \"An Act to provide for mental healthcare and services for persons with mental illness and to protect, promote and fulfill the rights of such persons during\ndelivery of mental healthcare and services and for matters connected therewith\nor incidental thereto.\" \nThis Act superseded the previously existing Mental Health Act, 1987 that was passed on 22 May 1987. \n\nIt states that mental illness be determined \"in accordance with nationally and internationally accepted medical standards (including the latest edition of the International Classification of Disease of the World Health Organisation) as may be notified by the Central Government.\" Additionally, the Act asserts that no person or authority shall classify an individual as a person with mental illness unless in directly in relation with treatment of the illness . \n\n\nLatest Update news: \n\n1. Mental Healthcare Act notified, attempting suicide no longer a crime in India \n"}
{"id": "40598323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40598323", "title": "Mental Rotations Test", "text": "Mental Rotations Test\n\nThe Mental Rotations Test is a test of spatial ability by Steven G. Vandenberg and Allan R. Kuse, first published in 1978. It has been used in hundreds of studies since then.\n"}
{"id": "27489045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27489045", "title": "Moses Majekodunmi", "text": "Moses Majekodunmi\n\nChief Moses Adekoyejo Majekodunmi C.F.R, C.M.G. (; 17 August 1916 – 11 April 2012) was a Nigerian gynaecologist and obstetrician. He was also Minister of Health in the Nigerian First Republic.\n\nMoses was born in Abeokuta in August 1916. He studied at Abeokuta Grammar School, St. Gregory's College, Lagos, before proceeding to the University of Dublin where he earned a degree in Anatomy and Physiology in 1936. He also earned a 1st Class degree in Bacteriology and Clinical Medicine in 1940.\n\nIn Ireland, he worked as in-house physician at the National Children's Hospital and the Rotunda Hospital from 1941 to 1942. In 1943, he joined the Federal Government Medical Services as a medical doctor and established his medical practice. He played key roles in the establishment of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital and also founded Saint Nicholas Hospital in Lagos, which opened in March 1968.\n\nHe was elected into the Nigerian Senate in 1960. He was appointed sole administrator of Western Region in June 1962 after a political crisis in the region, holding office in place of the Premier Samuel Akintola until December that year.\n\nThe crisis was due to a struggle between Akintola and the former Western Region Premier and current leader of the opposition Obafemi Awolowo, which had led to violent scenes in the House of Assembly.\nOn advice from the police, one of his first acts was to sign restriction orders to detain leaders of both factions.\nAfter the situation had stabilized, Akintola resumed office on 1 January 1963.\n\nAs an Oloye of the Yoruba people, he held the chieftaincy titles of the Mayegun of Lagos and the Otun Balogun of the Christians of Egbaland.\n\n"}
{"id": "19047963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19047963", "title": "Navajo AIDS Network", "text": "Navajo AIDS Network\n\nThe Navajo AIDS Network (NAN) is a Chinle, Arizona-based HIV prevention and AIDS service organization for American Indians who reside within the Navajo Nation, located in western New Mexico and eastern Arizona. NAN was founded in 1990 as a volunteer organization and was incorporated as a 501(c)3 non-profit in 1993.\n\nNAN, which operates independently of the Navajo tribal government, has offered anonymous HIV testing and references to medical services. It has also distributed condoms to help prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nNAN has also worked to further the cause of raising tolerance for the homosexual, bisexual and transgender members of the Navajo Nation, who had traditionally not been able to openly discuss their sexuality. In 2005, NAN sponsored the first Summer Gathering, which focused on health and social issues relating specifically to the Navajo LGBT community.\n"}
{"id": "1018946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1018946", "title": "Nicotine replacement therapy", "text": "Nicotine replacement therapy\n\nNicotine replacement therapy (NRT) is a medically-approved way to take nicotine by means other than tobacco. It is used to help with quitting smoking or stopping chewing tobacco. It increases the chance of quitting smoking by about 50% to 70%. Often it is used along with other behavioral techniques. NRT has also been used to treat ulcerative colitis. Types of NRT include the adhesive patch, chewing gum, lozenges, nose spray, and inhaler. The use of more than one type of NRT at a time may increase effectiveness.\nCommon side effects depend on the formulation of nicotine. Common side effects with the gum include nausea, hiccups, and irritation of the mouth. Common side effects with the patch include skin irritation and a dry mouth while the inhaler commonly results in a cough, runny nose, or headaches. Serious risks include nicotine poisoning and continued addiction. They do not appear to increase the risk of heart attacks. There are possible harms to the baby if used during pregnancy. Nicotine replacement therapy works by reducing cravings due to nicotine addiction.\nThey were first approved for use in 1984, in the United States. Nicotine replacement products are on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. They are available as generic medication. In the United States a month of patches or gum is between 100 and 200 USD while the other forms are more expensive.\n\nNicotine replacement therapy, in the form of gum, patches, nasal spray, inhaler and lozenges all improve the ability of people trying to quit tobacco products. Studies have shown that nicotine replacement therapy is as effective as medications, such as bupropion, in helping people quit smoking for at least 6 months. Studies have also shown that all forms of nicotine replacement therapy, including nicotine gum, patches, nasal spray, inhalers, and lozenges, have similar success rates in terms of helping people stop smoking. However, the likelihood that someone will stick to a certain treatment varies, with compliance being the highest with nicotine patches, followed by nicotine gum, inhalers, and nasal sprays. It is important to note that using a few different nicotine replacement methods in combination may improve success rates in stopping tobacco use. Additionally, using nicotine replacement with counseling has been proven to improve tobacco abstinence rates.\n\nNicotine replacement products are most beneficial for heavy smokers who smoke more than 15 cigarettes per day. There are not enough studies to show whether NRT helps those who smoke fewer than 10 cigarettes per day.\n\nEvaluation of NRT in real-world studies produces more modest outcomes than efficacy studies conducted by the industry-funded trials. The National Health Service (NHS) in England has a smoking cessation service based on pharmacotherapy in combination with counseling support. An Action on Smoking and Health (UK) (ASH) report claims that the average cost per life year gained for every smoker successfully treated by these services is less than £1,000 (below the NICE guidelines of £20,000 per QALY (quality-adjusted life year). However, the investment in NHS stop smoking services is relatively low. A comparison with treatment costs for illicit drug users shows that £585 million is committed for 350,000 problem drug users compared to £56 million for 9 million users of tobacco. This is £6.20 for each smoker, compared to £1,670 per illegal drug user.\n\nThe claims for high efficacy and cost-effectiveness of NRT have not been substantiated in real-world effectiveness studies. Pierce and Gilpin (2002) stated their conclusion as follows: “Since becoming available over the counter, NRT appears no longer effective in increasing long-term successful cessation” (p. 1260). Efficacy studies, which are conducted using randomized controlled trials, do not transfer very well to real-world effectiveness. Bauld, Bell, McCullough, Richardson and Greaves (2009) reviewed 20 studies on the effectiveness of intensive NHS treatments for smoking cessation published between 1990 and 2007. Quit rates showed a dramatic decrease between 4-weeks and one year. A quit rate of 53% at four weeks fell to only 15% at 1 year. Younger smokers, females, pregnant smokers and more deprived smokers had lower quit rates than other groups.\n\nSome side effects are caused by the nicotine, and are common to NRT products. Other common side effects depend on the formulation of nicotine. Common side effects with the gum include nausea, hiccups, and irritation of the mouth. Common side effects with the patch include skin irritation and a dry mouth while the inhaler commonly results in a cough, runny nose, or headaches. Nasal sprays commonly cause nasal irritation, watering eyes, and coughing.\n\nSerious risks include nicotine poisoning and continued addiction. \n\nLimited evidence exists regarding long-term NRT use, and concerns exist that long-term NRT use could raise cancer risk, due in part to the generation of carcinogens.\n\nNicotine is not safe to use in any amount during pregnancy. Nicotine crosses the placenta and is found in the breast milk of mothers who use nicotine replacement therapy. There are possible harms to the baby if NRT is used during pregnancy. Thus, pregnant women and those who are breastfeeding should also consult a physician before initiating NRT. The gum, lozenge, and nasal spray are pregnancy category C. The transdermal patch is pregnancy category D. The transdermal patch is considered less safe for the fetus because it delivers continuous nicotine exposure, as opposed to the gum or lozenge, which delivers intermittent and thus lower nicotine exposure. \n\nWhile nicotine was once considered a \"safe\" component of cigarette smoke, there is now strong evidence that it harms the child. There is evidence that nicotine negatively affects fetal brain development and pregnancy outcomes. There is also risk of stillbirth and pre-term birth. Nicotine use will probably harm fetal neurological development. Risks to the child later in life from nicotine exposure during pregnancy include type 2 diabetes, obesity, hypertension, neurobehavioral defects, respiratory dysfunction, and infertility. Nicotine exposure during pregnancy can result in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and learning disabilities in the child. It also puts the child at increased risk for nicotine addiction in the future.\n\nIn people under the age of 18, a physician is often consulted before starting NRT. The evidence suggests that exposure to nicotine between the ages of 10 and 25 years causes lasting harm to the brain and cognitive ability. Most tobacco users are under-eighteens when they start, and almost no-one over the age of 25 starts using.\n\nWhile there is no evidence that NRT can increase the risk of heart attacks, individuals with pre-existing cardiovascular conditions or recent heart attacks should consult a physician before initiating NRT.\n\nNicotine replacement therapy works by reducing cravings due to nicotine addiction. Nicotine replacement products vary in the time it takes for the nicotine to enter the body and the total time nicotine stays in the body. The more quickly a dose of nicotine is delivered and absorbed, the higher the addiction risk. It is possible to become dependent on some NRTs.\n\nNicotine patches are applied to the skin and continuously administer a stable dose of nicotine slowly over 16–24 hours. Nicotine gum, nicotine sprays, nicotine sublingual tablets, and nicotine lozenges administer nicotine orally with quicker nicotine uptake into the body but lasting a shorter amount of time. Nicotine inhalers are metered-dose inhalers that administer nicotine through the lungs and mucous membranes of the throat quickly but lasting a short amount of time. For example, blood nicotine levels are the highest 5–10 minutes after using the nicotine nasal spray, 20 minutes after using a nicotine inhaler or chewing nicotine gum, and 2–4 hours after using a nicotine patch.\n\nIn 2015, the United States Public Health Service listed seven agents for the stopping of tobacco, which included 5 nicotine replacement treatments (nicotine patches, gum, lozenges, inhalers, and nasal sprays) and 2 oral medications (bupropion and varenicline). Other NRT options are available, including nicotine mouth sprays and sublingual tablets.\n\nTrade names include Nicotex, Nicorette, Nicoderm, Nicogum, Nicotinell, Thrive and Commit Lozenge.\n\nNRT products were first approved for use in the United States in 1984. Nicotine replacement products are on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. They are available as generic medication. In the United States a month of patches or gum is between 100 and 200 USD while the other forms are more expensive.\n\nIn the United States, a month of patches or gum is between 100 and 200 USD as of 2015 while the other forms are more expensive; in the UK lozenges are the cheapest. In the United States, a month of patches is about 170 USD.\n\nSnus and nasal snuff also allow for nicotine administration outside of tobacco smoking.\n\nIn 2015, NRT sales fell for the first time since 2008 while sales for e-cigarettes continued to increase at a substantial rate. This had led to speculation that UK smokers are trying to quit with e-cigarettes rather than NRT methods.\n\nE-cigarettes are often, although not always, designed to look and feel like cigarettes. They have been marketed as less harmful alternatives to cigarettes, but very few are as yet approved as NRTs in any jurisdiction. Some electronic cigarettes have coarsely adjustable nicotine levels. Some healthcare groups have hesitated to recommend e-cigarettes for quitting smoking, because of limited evidence of effectiveness and safety.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has a list of additional tobacco products they are seeking to regulate, including electronic cigarettes. The FDA has approved nicotine inhaler(s?) as a form of NRT.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25212691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25212691", "title": "Permanent Indus Commission", "text": "Permanent Indus Commission\n\nThe Permanent Indus Commission is a bilateral commission consisting of officials from India and Pakistan, created to implement and manage the goals and objectives and outlines of the Indus Waters Treaty. The commission maintains and exchanges data and co-operates between the two countries.\n\nAfter prolonged talks between the governments of India and Pakistan, the Indus Water Treaty was signed in September 1960. According to this treaty, waters of the three western rivers (the Jhelum, the Chenab, and the Indus itself) were allocated to Pakistan, and those of the three eastern rivers (the Ravi, the Beas, and the Sutlej) were allocated to India. The Indus Commission is the first step for conflict resolution. If an agreement cannot be reached at the Commission level, the dispute is to be referred to the two governments. If the governments too fail to reach an agreement, the Treaty provides an arbitration mechanism.\n"}
{"id": "16290907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16290907", "title": "Permanent Observer of the Holy See to the United Nations", "text": "Permanent Observer of the Holy See to the United Nations\n\nThe Permanent Observer of the Holy See to the United Nations is the representative of the Holy See at the United Nations. The diplomatic mission does not have the status of Permanent Representative and thus cannot vote — a decision it has freely taken. The Holy See has sat in the UN as a non-voting delegation with permanent observer state status since 1964, and is one of two states with this status, the other being the State of Palestine.\n\nThe Permanent Observer, currently Archbishop Bernardito Auza, as of 1 July 2014, holds the diplomatic rank of Apostolic Nuncio (Papal Ambassador) and the ecclesiastical title of a titular archbishop. He is assisted by the Reverend Father Roger Landry, a priest of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Fall River (in Fall River, Massachusetts, a large suburb of Providence, Rhode Island, south of Boston), former pastor of St. Bernadette's Parish there.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22494373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22494373", "title": "Regulation of food and dietary supplements by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration", "text": "Regulation of food and dietary supplements by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration\n\nThe regulation of food and dietary supplements by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is a process governed by various statutes enacted by the United States Congress and interpreted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\"). Pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (\"the Act\") and accompanying legislation, the FDA has authority to oversee the quality of substances sold as food in the United States, and to monitor claims made in the labeling about both the composition and the health benefits of foods.\n\nSubstances which the FDA regulates as food are subdivided into various categories, including foods, food additives, added substances (man-made substances which are not intentionally introduced into food, but nevertheless end up in it), and dietary supplements. The specific standards which the FDA exercises differ from one category to the next. Furthermore, the FDA has been granted a variety of means by which it can address violations of the standards for a given category of substances.\n\nThe was the first of a series of significant consumer protection laws enacted by the Federal Government in the twentieth century and led to the creation of the Food and Drug Administration. Its main purpose was to ban foreign and interstate traffic in adulterated or mislabeled food and drug products, and it directed the U.S. Bureau of Chemistry to inspect products and refer offenders to prosecutors. It required that active ingredients be placed on the label of a drug’s packaging and that drugs could not fall below purity levels established by The United States Pharmacopeia or The National Formulary. \"The Jungle\" by Upton Sinclair was an inspirational piece that kept the public's attention on the important issue of unsanitary meat processing plants that later formed the Pure Food and Drug Act.\n\nThe United States Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (abbreviated as FFDCA, FDCA, or FD&C), is a set of laws passed by Congress in 1938 giving authority to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to oversee the safety of food, drugs, and cosmetics. A principal author of this law was Royal S. Copeland, a three-term U.S. Senator from New York. In 1968, the Electronic Product Radiation Control provisions were added to the FD&C. Also in that year the FDA formed the Drug Efficacy Study Implementation (DESI) to incorporate into FD&C regulations the recommendations from a National Academy of Sciences investigation of effectiveness of previously marketed drugs. The act has been amended many times, most recently to add requirements about bioterrorism preparations.\n\nThe introduction of this act was influenced by the death of more than 100 patients due to a sulfanilamide medication where diethylene glycol was used to dissolve the drug and make a liquid form. See Elixir Sulfanilamide disaster. It replaced the earlier Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906.\n\nThe Food Additives Amendment of 1958 is a 1958 amendment to the Food, Drugs, and Cosmetic Act of 1938. It was a response to concerns about the safety of new food additives. The amendment established the designation of \"generally recognized as safe\", which refers to chemicals or substances which can be used as food additives without further evaluation or testing just because they have been long used and there is broad acceptance of their use. New food additives would be subject to testing including by the \"Delaney clause\". The Delaney clause was a provision in the amendment which said that if a substance were found to cause cancer in man or animal, then it could not be used as a food additive.\n\nThe Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 is a 1994 statute of United States Federal legislation which defines and regulates dietary supplements. Under the act, supplements are mainly unregulated, without proof of effectiveness or safety needed to market a supplement, as well as dietary supplements being classified as foods instead of as drugs.\n\nFood is defined in the Act to be:\n\nThe first definition offered is self-referential, defining food in part as \"articles used for food\", leaving it to the FDA and the courts to determine what exactly constitutes food. This determination is particularly important because the definition of a \"drug\" under the act includes a section defining drugs as \"articles (\"other than food\") intended to affect the structure or any function of the body of man or other animals\". Thus, the definition of food is important not only in determining what is covered by the regulatory regime for food, but in determining what is \"excluded\" from the regulatory regime for drugs. For example, in the 1983 case of \"Nutrilab, Inc. v. Schweiker\", the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit found that starch blockers, though derived from kidney beans, were drugs rather than food under the meaning of the Act. The starch blockers were sold as tablets, and \"not consumed primarily for taste, aroma, or nutritive value\". Products that are normally considered to be foods may also be regulated as drugs if the parties responsible for their manufacture or sale make claims as to their ability to treat diseases, although the FDA now permits advertising addressing the disease-fighting qualities in foods where those qualities have been endorsed by the scientific community.\n\nThe standards for food sold in the United States are set forth in Chapter IV of the Act. These standards set forth two main areas of food that violates the Act: adulterated food and misbranded food. These categories are independent of one another; food can be completely free of adulteration and otherwise healthy to consume, and still be in violation of the act if it is misbranded. Likewise, food that has completely accurate labels, including warnings about dangers that it may pose to health, may nevertheless be deemed adulterated.\n\nThe Act sets forth several circumstances under which food will be deemed adulterated. The primary definition set forth is that food is adulterated if:\n\nAdded substances are treated separately by the FDA, meaning that the sale of an article or substance as food will generally be permitted if that article or substance is not ordinarily injurious to health.\n\nFood is also deemed adulterated \"if it consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid, or decomposed substance, or if it is otherwise unfit for food\"; if it was \"prepared, packed, or held under insanitary conditions whereby it may have become contaminated with filth, or whereby it may have been rendered injurious to health\"; if it was produced from \"a diseased animal or of an animal which has died otherwise than by slaughter\"; if it was packaged in a poisonous material; or if it was intentionally irradiated outside of irradiation guidelines set forth by the Act. These definitions are also independent, meaning that food that is \"filthy\" or has been \"held under insanitary conditions\" is still in violation of the Act and subject to condemnation even if the owner can demonstrate that it poses no actual threat to health. The phrase \"otherwise unfit for food\", although seeming to be a catch-all, has rarely been invoked. It would apply to a circumstance such as a seller offering wood chips as food, which might be safe to consume and prepared under sanitary conditions, but would be impossible to chew.\n\nThe FDA has the authority to inspect any establishment in which food is manufactured, processed, packed, or held. In searching for contamination, the FDA typically uses organoleptic inspection methods - investigators trained to distinguish contamination and decomposition by sight and smell. Upon completion of such an inspection, the FDA will generate an \"Establishment Inspection Report\" (EIR) detailing any problems found. Where problems are found, the FDA will instruct the owner of the inspected facility how to proceed in resolving those problems. FDA inspectors may take photographs of an establishment unless they are expressly told not to do so, and the owner of the establishment must provide an employee to answer questions that arise during the inspection. If the owner of an establishment refuses to permit FDA inspectors to enter a covered establishment, or any part of one, then the FDA may obtain a search warrant to enter.\n\nCourts have held that, so long as the owner has not objected to the inspection and prevented the inspectors from entering, the FDA does not require a warrant to seize materials that are in violations of the Act. Furthermore, such materials may be used at trial against the owner without raising unreasonable search and seizure issues under the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution because the industry at issue has been found to be heavily regulated, meaning that the owner of such an establishment has no expectation of privacy with respect to premises of the type covered by the Act.\n\nThe presence of some degree of contamination is inevitable in almost all food. Technically, the FDA could inspect all food under a microscope and prohibit the sale of every article containing any discernible trace of mold, insect fragments, rodent hairs, and the like - effectively barring the sale of all food. In order to avoid this outcome, the FDA sets \"action levels\", which specify minimum amounts of particular contaminants that must be found in a food sample before the FDA will take action with respect to that sample. The FDA maintains a listing of all current action levels on its website. The FDA also establishes action levels for man-made chemicals such as aflatoxin, lead, and mercury, and maintains these on its website.\n\nThe primary basis under which food may be deemed misbranded under the Act is if \"its labeling is false or misleading in any particular\". Labeling is defined elsewhere in the Act, and includes:\n\n...all labels and other written, printed, or graphic matter \n\nUnder the second part of this definition, it has been held that a food substance sold in conjunction with a book or pamphlet which makes false claims about the benefits of that substance is misbranded. If books making false claims about a food are sold in conjunction with that food, the books themselves may also be seized and destroyed - even if the author had no intention of selling the book in conjunction with the food. However, if a store happens to be selling both a food and a book which makes false claims about that food, and is selling the items separately, then no misbranding occurs. This is so even if the book and the food are both produced by the same company, and even if the maker of the food encourages the seller to carry the book.\n\nIn terms of determining whether food is misbranded, the FDA only monitors labeling, and not advertising, which instead falls under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission. However, the FDA will review the advertising of a product to determine whether it is to be regulated as a food or as a drug, based on the claims that the manufacturer or seller makes about its properties.\n\nThe FDA is authorized to issue a standard of identity for any food. This is a description of what, exactly, must be in that food in order for it to be identified under a certain name. For example, a court has upheld an FDA ruling that for a product to be sold as cream cheese, it must contain a specified minimum percentage of milk fat, and a maximum level of moisture. Incorrectly identifying a food by a name for which a standard of identity has been established is considered a form of misbranding. The FDA has set forth nearly 300 such standards. However, in recent decades, companies marketing new types of food items have diminished the importance of these standards by simply coining new names for foodstuffs that do not conform to an existing standard, with examples including Cool Whip and Cheetos.\n\nThere are two kinds of health claims that can be made about foods other than dietary supplements: structure/function claims and disease claims. Structure/function claims are claims that do not suggest that the food can diagnose, treat, or prevent any particular disease, but that it can, for example, maintain, regulate, or promote normal healthy bodily functions. Where such claims are made, foods are generally required to carry a disclaimer on their label indicating that the claim has not been evaluated by the FDA.\n\nDisease claims suggest that the food can help prevent specific diseases. Such claims are only permitted where the FDA finds that there is \"significant scientific agreement\", or where the claim has been approved by another federal health agency or the National Academy of Sciences.\n\nFood additives are defined in the Act to be:\n\nThe definition goes on to capture several broad categories of things not traditionally thought of as \"food\", including \"any substance intended for use in producing, manufacturing, packing, processing, preparing, treating, packaging, transporting, or holding food\". The definition only applies if the substance in question is not \"generally recognized as safe\" by qualified experts, and also exempts substances that were in common use as food prior to January 1, 1958.\n\nThe Act sets forth certain exemptions for substances which are treated under different regulatory schemes, including pesticide chemicals and their residue, color additives, substances previously approved under other statutes, new animal drugs, and dietary supplements. The statute directs that food additives are generally to be presumed to be unsafe (and therefore prohibited) until they have been proven to be safe. However, the statute then sets out a regulatory scheme under which a person intending to use a heretofore unapproved food additive may petition for \"the issuance of a regulation prescribing the conditions under which such additive may be safely used\".\n\nThe Delaney clause, initially enacted in 1958, prohibits the FDA from approving food additives shown to cause cancer. At the time of the passage of the amendment, little was known about the carcinogenic propensities of a wide variety of additives. Following the enactment of this amendment, more and more substances were shown to be potentially carcinogenic, albeit in experiments wherein test animals were subjected to doses far in excess to the proportions which humans were likely to consume. In 1982, the FDA responded to this trend by adopting a rule that a food additive would not be denied approval under the Delaney clause unless the additive itself, and not just the constituent chemicals used to make it, was shown to cause cancer. This policy was later challenged in court following FDA approval of a food coloring manufactured with a compound known to be carcinogenic, after separate testing indicated that the food coloring itself did not cause cancer in test animals. The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit upheld the FDA's approval of the food coloring.\n\nAdded substances are not separately defined in the act, but are understood to be different from food itself based on the definition of adulterated food, and a later section authorizing the FDA to set forth tolerance limits for \"[a]ny poisonous or deleterious substance added to any food...\". Such substances are prohibited, \"except where such substance is required in the production thereof or cannot be avoided by good manufacturing practice\". Because added substances often can not be avoided in food, such as the presence of man-made pollutants in fish, the FDA is required to \"promulgate regulations limiting the quantity therein or thereon to such extent as [is] necessary for the protection of public health\". The action levels discussed above with respect to poisonous or deleterious substances address these added substances. Added substances differ from food additives, discussed above, in that the latter applies to things which are \"intentionally\" added to food, and therefore require FDA approval prior to being added to food.\n\nThe Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 mandated that the FDA regulate dietary supplements as foods, rather than as drugs. Consequently, dietary supplements are defined as a kind of food under the statute, with the caveat that this does not exempt them from being treated as drugs in the way that other foods are exempted, if circumstances permit it.\n\nLike other food substances, dietary supplements are not subject to the safety and efficacy testing requirements imposed on drugs, and unlike drugs they do not require prior approval by the FDA; however, they are subject to the FDA regulations regarding adulteration and misbranding. The FDA can take action against dietary supplements only after they are proven to be unsafe. Dietary supplements may be deemed to be misbranded if they are marketed in a way that characterizes them as a drug, without having undergone the clinical trials to which new drugs are subjected. Manufacturers of dietary supplements are permitted to make specific claims of health benefits, referred to as \"structure or function claims\" on the labels of these products. They may not claim to treat, diagnose, cure, or prevent disease and must include a disclaimer on the label. Where a manufacturer makes a structure or function claim in connection with the sale of a dietary supplement, the manufacturer must notify the FDA within 30 days after it has introduced that product to the market.\n\nClaims that either a food or dietary supplement acts to \"prevent\" a disease are permitted, so long as there is \"significant scientific agreement\" for the claim, or it has been approved in an \"authoritative statement\" by \"a scientific body with official responsibility for the public health protection or research directly relating to human nutrition\" such as the National Academy of Sciences.\n\nConsumer Reports, a consumer protection advocacy and product testing group, stated:\n\nThe Act expressly prohibits the \"introduction, or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of food... that is adulterated or misbranded\", as well as the actual adulteration or misbranding of food. The Act further sets forth a broad range of powers that the FDA may exercise in order to prevent distribution of adulterated or misbranded food. In addition to the express powers set forth in the statute, the FDA exercises certain implied powers, such as the issuance of Warning Letters and recall orders.\n\nThe steps which the FDA may take in response to a violation include the following:\n\nWhere food is found to be adulterated, the FDA also has the option to offer the owner the opportunity to \"recondition\" the food - that is, to remove all traces and contamination, and submit that food for a reinspection by the FDA, at which time it may be approved for sale. Similarly, where food is found to be misbranded, the FDA has the option of offering the owner the opportunity to correct the labeling, and put the food back on the market with new labels that are not misleading.\n\n"}
{"id": "4405048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4405048", "title": "Sherman Cottle", "text": "Sherman Cottle\n\nMajor Sherman Cottle is a fictional character in the reimagined \"Battlestar Galactica\" series. The battlestar \"Galactica\"'s Chief Medical Officer, Cottle is played by Donnelly Rhodes.\n\nCottle is gruff, sarcastic, and portrayed as a heavy smoker. He isn't impressed or easily swayed by those in authority: He makes less-than-deferential remarks to both Cdr. William Adama and Col. Saul Tigh, and even President Laura Roslin. He holds the rank of Major in the Colonial Fleet, but is not a line officer: he does not form a part of \"Galactica\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s chain of command. He is invariably addressed by his medical title, and unlike Gaius Baltar, Cottle does not object to the abbreviation \"Doc\".\n\nCottle appears to have a strict sense of medical ethics (possibly having sworn the Colonial equivalent of Earth's Hippocratic oath), and does not discriminate between human and Cylon patients. He describes the sexual assault of Sharon \"Athena\" Agathon as \"unforgivable,\" and after the Cylon occupation of New Caprica, provides medical care to critically injured Cylons, telling Number Three that all patients are the same to him.\n\nPresident Roslin is a long term patient: she informs him of her breast cancer diagnosis two weeks after the destruction of the Twelve Colonies, and continues to see him at various points until her near death and successful treatment by Doctor Baltar. Cottle opposes but does not obstruct Baltar's treatment method, which uses the blood of Sharon Agathon's unborn child, calling it \"unnatural\".\n\nCottle appears to be among those who muster out of the Colonial Fleet after the establishment of the settlement on New Caprica. He continues to provide medical services as a civilian doctor, frustrated by the lack of antibiotics and other medical supplies. Following the Cylon invasion, Cottle acts as a neutral party, providing medical care to all those in need.\n\nFollowing the rescue of the New Caprica colonists, Cottle resumes his duties as \"Galactica\"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> chief medical officer. He volunteers for the apparent suicide mission in the series finale, Daybreak\", but is reminded by William Adama that the fleet can not afford to lose a doctor. The civilian fleet reunites with \"Galactica\" after the battle, at the new habitable planet Starbuck jumped it to. Cottle then settles down on the new planet, named \"Earth\" after the original one, with the rest of the surviving crew.\n\n"}
{"id": "14884263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14884263", "title": "Systemic inflammation", "text": "Systemic inflammation\n\nChronic systemic inflammation (SI) is the result of release of pro-inflammatory cytokines from immune-related cells and the chronic activation of the innate immune system.\n\nIt can contribute to the development or progression of certain conditions.\n\nRelease of pro-inflammatory cytokines and activation of the innate immune system may be the result of either external (biological or chemical agents) or internal (genetic mutations/variations) factors.\n\nWhile SI may be induced by multiple external factors, research suggests that a lack of control by tolerogenic dendritic cells and T-regulatory cells (Treg) is possibly the primary risk factor for the development of SI. In functioning immune responses, T-helper and T-cytotoxic cells are activated by presentation of antigens by antigen-presenting cells (APCs). Chief among these are dendritic cells (DCs). When a DC presents an antigen to a Treg cell, a signal is then sent to the nucleus of the DC, resulting in the production of Indoleamine 2,3- Dioxygenase (IDO). IDO inhibits T cell responses by depleting tryptophan and producing kynurenine, which is toxic to the cell.\n\nIndividuals susceptible to developing chronic systemic inflammation appear to lack proper functioning of Treg cells and TDCs. In these individuals, a lack of control of inflammatory processes results in multiple chemical and food intolerances, autoimmune diseases and many other symptoms and diseases.\n\n"}
{"id": "39515585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39515585", "title": "Toxicodynamics", "text": "Toxicodynamics\n\nToxicodynamics, termed pharmacodynamics in pharmacology, describes the dynamic interactions of a toxicant with a biological target and its biological effects. A biological target, also known as the site of action, can be binding proteins, ion channels, DNA, or a variety of other receptors. When a toxicant enters an organism, it can interact with these receptors and produce structural or functional alterations. The mechanism of action of the toxicant, as determined by a toxicant’s chemical properties, will determine what receptors are targeted and the overall toxic effect at the cellular level and organismal level.\n\nToxicants have been grouped together according to their chemical properties by way of quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSARs), which allows prediction of toxic action based on these properties. endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) and carcinogens are examples of classes of toxicants that can act as QSARs. EDCs mimic or block transcriptional activation normally caused by natural steroid hormones. These types of chemicals can act on androgen receptors, estrogen receptors and thyroid hormone receptors. This mechanism can include such toxicants as dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDE) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Another class of chemicals, carcinogens, are substances that cause cancer and can be classified as genotoxic or nongenotoxic carcinogens. These categories include toxicants such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAHs) and carbon tetrachloride (CCl).\n\nThe process of toxicodynamics can be useful for application in environmental risk assessment by implementing toxicokinetic-toxicodynamic (TKTD) models. TKTD models include phenomenas such as time-varying exposure, carry-over toxicity, organism recovery time, effects of mixtures, and extrapolation to untested chemicals and species. Due to their advantages, these types of models may be more applicable for risk assessment than traditional modeling approaches.\n\nWhile toxicokinetics describes the changes in the concentrations of a toxicant over time due to the uptake, biotransformation, distribution and elimination of toxicants, toxicodynamics involves the interactions of a toxicant with a biological target and the functional or structural alterations in a cell that can eventually lead to a toxic effect. Depending on the toxicant’s chemical reactivity and vicinity, the toxicant may be able to interact with the biological target. Interactions between a toxicant and the biological target may also be more specific, where high-affinity binding sites increase the selectivity of interactions. For this reason, toxicity may be expressed primarily in certain tissues or organs. The targets are often receptors on the cell surface or in the cytoplasm and nucleus. Toxicants can either induce an unnecessary response or inhibit a natural response, which can cause damage. If the biological target is critical and the damage is severe enough, irreversible injury can occur first at the molecular level, which will translate into effects at higher levels of organization.\n\nEDCs are generally considered to be toxicants that either mimic or block the transcriptional activation normally caused by natural steroid hormones. These chemicals include those acting on androgen receptors, estrogen receptors and thryoid hormone receptors.\n\nEndocrine disrupting chemicals can interfere with the endocrine system in a number of ways including hormone synthesis, storage/release, transport and clearance, receptor recognition and binding, and postreceptor activation.\n\nIn wildlife, exposure to EDCs can result in altered fertility, reduced viability of offspring, impaired hormone secretion or activity and modified reproductive anatomy. The reproductive anatomy of offspring can particularly be affected if maternal exposure occurs. In females, this includes mammary glands, fallopian tubes, uterus, cervix, and vagina. In males, this includes the prostate, seminal vesicles, epididymitis and testes. Exposure of fish to EDCs has also been associated with abnormal thyroid function, decreased fertility, decreased hatching success, de-feminization and masculinization of female fish and alteration of immune function.\n\nEndocrine disruption as a mode of action for xenobiotics was brought into awareness by Our Stolen Future by Theo Colborn. Endocrine disrupting chemicals are known to accumulate in body tissue and are highly persistent in the environment. Many toxicants are known EDCs including pesticides, phthalates, phytoestrogens, some industrial/commercial products, and pharmaceuticals. These chemicals are known to cause endocrine disruption via a few different mechanisms. While the mechanism associated with the thyroid hormone receptor is not well understood, two more established mechanisms involve the inhibition of the androgen receptor and activation of the estrogen receptor.\n\nCertain toxicants act as endocrine disruptors by interacting with the androgen receptor. DDE is one example of a chemical that acts via this mechanism. DDE is a metabolite of DDT that is widespread in the environment. Although production of DDT has been banned in the Western world, this chemical is extremely persistent and is still commonly found in the environment along with its metabolite DDE. DDE is an antiandrogen, which means it alters the expression of specific androgen-regulated genes, and is an androgen receptor (AR)-mediated mechanism. DDE is a lipophilic compound which diffuses into the cell and binds to the AR. Through binding, the receptor is inactivated and cannot bind to the androgen response element on DNA. This inhibits the transcription of androgen-responsive genes which can have serious consequences for exposed wildlife. In 1980, there was a spill in Lake Apopka, Florida which released the pesticide dicofol and DDT along with its metabolites. The neonatal and juvenile alligators present in this lake have been extensively studied and observed to have altered plasma hormone concentrations, decreased clutch viability, increased juvenile mortality, and morphological abnormalities in the testis and ovary.\n\nToxicants may also cause endocrine disruption through interacting with the estrogen receptor. This mechanism has been well-studied with PCBs. These chemicals have been used as coolants and lubricants in transformers and other electrical equipment due to their insulating properties. A purely anthropogenic substance, PCBs are no longer in production in the United States due to the adverse health effects associated with exposure, but they are highly persistent and are still widespread in the environment. PCBs are a xenoestrogen, which elicit an enhancing (rather than inhibiting) response, and are mediated by the estrogen receptor. These are often referred to as estrogen mimics because they mimic the effects of estrogen. PCBs often build up in sediments and bioaccumulate in organisms. These chemicals diffuse into the nucleus and bind to the estrogen receptor. The estrogen receptor is kept in an inactive conformation through interactions with proteins such as heat shock proteins 59, 70, and 90. After the toxicant binding occurs, the estrogen receptor is activated and forms a homodimer complex which seeks out estrogen response elements in the DNA. The binding of the complex to these elements causes a rearrangement of the chromatin and transcription of the gene, resulting in production of a specific protein. In doing this, PCBs elicit an estrogenic response which can affect numerous functions within the organism. These effects are observed in various aquatic species. The levels of PCBs in marine mammals are often very high as a result of bioaccumulation. Studies have demonstrated that PCBs are responsible for reproductive impairment in the harbor seal (Phoca vitulina). Similar effects have been found in the grey seal (Halichoerus grypus), the ringed seal (Pusa hispida) and the California sea lion (Zalophys californinus). In the grey seals and ringed seals, uterine occlusions and stenosis were found which led to sterility. If exposed to a xenoestrogen such as PCBs, male fish have also been seen to produce vitellogenin. Vitellogenin is an egg protein female fish normally produce but is not usually present in males except at very low concentrations. This is often used as a biomarker for EDCs.\n\nCarcinogens are defined as any substance that causes cancer. The toxicodynamics of carcinogens can be complex due to the varying mechanisms of action for different carcinogenic toxicants. Because of their complex nature, carcinogens are classified as either genotoxic or nongenotoxic carcinogens.\n\nThe effects of carcinogens are most often related to human exposures but mammals are not the only species that can be affected by cancer-causing toxicants. Many studies have shown that cancer can develop in fish species as well. Neoplasms occurring in epithelial tissue such as the liver, gastrointestinal tract, and the pancreas have been linked to various environmental toxicants. Carcinogens preferentially target the liver in fish and develop hepatocellular and biliary lesions.\n\nGenotoxic carcinogens interact directly with DNA and genetic material or indirectly by their reactive metabolites. Toxicants such as PAHs can be genotoxic carcinogens to aquatic organisms. PAHs are widely spread throughout the environment through the incomplete burning of coal, wood, or petroleum products. Although PAHs do not bioaccumulate in vertebrate tissue, many studies have confirmed that certain PAH compounds such as benzo(a)pyrene, benz(a)anthracene, and Benzofluoranthene, are bioavailable and responsible for liver diseases like cancer in wild fish populations. One mechanism of action for genotoxic carcinogens includes the formation of DNA adducts. Once the PAH compound enters an organism, it becomes metabolized and available for biotransformation.\n\nThe biotransformation process can activate the PAH compound and transform it into a diol epoxide, which is a very reactive intermediate. These diol-epoxides covalently bind with DNA base pairs, most often with guanine and adenine to form stable adducts within the DNA structure. The binding of diol epoxides and DNA base pairs blocks polymerase replication activity. This blockage ultimately contributes to an increase in DNA damage by reducing repair activity.\n\nDue to these processes, PAH compounds are thought to play a role in the initiation and early promotion stage of carcinogenesis. Fish exposed to PAHs develop a range of liver lesions, some of which are characteristic of hepatocarcinogenicity.\n\nNongenotoxic, or epigenetic carcinogens are different and slightly more ambiguous than genotoxic carcinogens since they are not directly carcinogenic. Nongenotoxic carcinogens act by secondary mechanisms that do not directly damage genes. This type of carcinogenesis does not change the sequence of DNA; instead it alters the expression or repression of certain genes by a wide variety of cellular processes. Since these toxicants do not directly act on DNA, little is known about the mechanistic pathway. It has been proposed that modification of gene expression from nongenotoxic carcinogens can occur by oxidative stress, peroxisome proliferation, suppression of apoptosis, alteration of intercellular communication, and modulation of metabolizing enzymes.\n\nCarbon tetrachloride is an example of a probable nongenotoxic carcinogen to aquatic vertebrates. Historically, carbon tetrachloride has been used in pharmaceutical production, petroleum refining, and as an industrial solvent. Due to its widespread industrial use and release into the environment, carbon tetrachloride has been found in drinking water and therefore, has become a concern for aquatic organisms. Because of its high hepatotoxic properties, carbon tetrachloride could potentially be linked to liver cancer. Experimental cancer studies have shown that carbon tetrachloride may cause benign and malignant liver tumors to rainbow trout. carbon tetrachloride works as a nongenotoxic carcinogen by formulating free radicals which induce oxidative stress. It has been proposed that once carbon tetrachloride enters the organism, it is metabolized to trichloromethyl and trichloromethyl peroxy radicals by the CYP2E1 enzyme. The more reactive radical, trichloromethyl peroxy, can attack polyunsaturated fatty acids in the cellular membrane to form fatty acid free radicals and initiate lipid peroxidation. The attack on the cellular membrane increases its permeability, causing a leakage of enzymes and disrupts cellular calcium homeostasis. This loss of calcium homeostasis activates calcium dependent degradative enzymes and cytotoxicity, causing hepatic damage. The regenerative and proliferative changes that occur in the liver during this time could increase the frequency of genetic damage, resulting in a possible increase of cancer.\n\nToxicodynamics can be used in combination with toxicokinetics in environmental risk assessment to determine the potential effects of releasing a toxicant into the environment. The most widely used method of incorporating this are TKTD models.\n\nBoth toxicokinetics and toxicodynamics have now been described, and using these definitions models were formed, where the internal concentration (TK) and damage (TD) are simulated in response to exposure. TK and TD are separated in the model to allow for the identification of properties of toxicants that determine TK and those that determine TD. To use this type of model, parameter values for TK processes need to be obtained first. Second, the TD parameters need to be estimated. Both of these steps require a large database of toxicity information for parameterization. After establishing all the parameter values for the TKTD model, and using basic scientific precautions, the model can be used to predict toxic effects, calculate recovery times for organisms, or establish extrapolations from the model to toxicity of untested toxicants and species.\n\nIt has been argued that the current challenges facing risk assessments can be addressed with TKTD modeling. TKTD models were derived in response to a couple of factors. One is the lack of time being considered as a factor in toxicity and risk assessment. Some of the earliest developed TKTD models, such as the Critical Body Residue (CBR) model and Critical Target Occupation (CTO) model, have considered time as a factor but a criticism has been that they are for very specific circumstances such as reversibly acting toxicants or irreversibly acting toxicants. Further extrapolation of the CTO and CBR models are DEBtox, which can model sublethal endpoints, and hazard versions of the CTO, which takes into account stochastic death as opposed to individual tolerance. Another significant step to developing TKTD models was the incorporation of a state variable for damage. By using damage as a toxicodynamic state-variable, modeling intermediate recovery rates can be accomplished for toxicants that act reversibly with their targets, without the assumptions of instant recovery (CBR model) or irreversible interactions (CTO model). TKTD models that incorporate damage are the Damage Assessment Model (DAM) and the Threshold Damage Model (TDM). For what may seem like straightforward endpoints, a variety of different TKTD approaches exist. A review of the assumptions and hypotheses of each was previously published in the creation of a general unified threshold model of survival (GUTS).\n\nAs referenced above, TKTD models have several advantages to traditional models for risk assessments. The principal advantages to using TKTD models are:\n\n\nDue to its advantages, TKTD models may be more powerful than the traditional dose-response models because of their incorporation of chemical concentrations as well as temporal dimensions. Toxicodynamic modeling (such as TKTD models) has been shown to be a useful tool for toxicological research, with increasing opportunities to use these results in risk assessment to permit a more scientifically based risk assessment that is less reliable on animal testing. Overall, these types of models can formalize knowledge about the toxicity of toxicants and organism sensitivity, create new hypotheses, and simulate temporal aspects of toxicity, making them useful tools for risk assessment.\n\n"}
{"id": "20879930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20879930", "title": "UK Chemical Reaction Hazards Forum", "text": "UK Chemical Reaction Hazards Forum\n\nThe UK Chemical Reaction Hazards Forum is a group of process safety scientists, from different companies, who meet at regular intervals to share knowledge and experiences of recent chemical incidents, within their own companies, with the aim of preventing a repeat of the incident at a different location. They further try extend this aim to assist smaller companies, many of whom will not have access to the sophisticated equipment of the forum members, by publishing these incidents and near-misses on a web site.\n\nPrior to 1995, the main source of data pertaining to chemical reaction incidents was the regulatory bodies (e.g. Health and Safety Executive in UK), following the investigation (and maybe) prosecution post incident. There was very little data that could be obtained regarding incidents and near-misses that fell outside this area.\n\nBy this time the majority of the larger chemical companies all had some sort of Process safety section, either as a stand-alone unit or as part of a Process development area – increasing amounts of safety studies are needed as the scale is increased. Workers in this field were becoming acquainted with those in other companies, due to a rapid rise in the number of specialist safety testing equipment (most notably the Accelerating Rate Calorimeter and the Metter-Toledo RC1 Reaction Calorimeter)\n\nIn 1994 two of these safety scientists got together with the idea of creating a forum for free and unbiased information exchange. They contacted many of the companies with known process safety sections, and an inaugural meeting in May 1995 was achieved, with people representing 15 different companies plus the addition of an academic expert in chemical reaction incidents from the South Bank University.\n\nThe forum size has been kept to around 15 members. The forum is non-profit organization, and has no need to raise funds as all meetings are carried out at the members sites on a rota basis. Due to the many mergers and divestments over the years since its start, there has had to be quite a few changes, and the newer companies have been invited to join to keep the numbers viable.\n\nThe members are typically senior safety scientists, often at a managerial level, from the major UK chemical companies, including:-\n\nThe incident data on the web site has been obtained from all over the world, not just in the UK. Many of the members have global sites, which report back to them. In addition there is some data which has been freely supplied from other individuals and companies, via the e-mail links on the web site.\n\nIn all cases the data is made anonymous, so that there can be no link back to the originator – otherwise it would be unlikely that the majority of the data would ever have been released.\n\nMany adedemic chemistry departments have installed links to the site on their own web pages, to facilitate their students education in reaation hazards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1415889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1415889", "title": "Uplift (science fiction)", "text": "Uplift (science fiction)\n\nIn science fiction, uplift is a developmental process to transform a certain species of animals into more intelligent beings by other, already-intelligent beings. This is usually accomplished by cultural, technological, or evolutional interventions like genetic engineering but any fictional or real process can be used. The earliest appearance of the concept is in H. G. Wells' 1896 novel \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\", and more recently appears in David Brin's \"Uplift series\" and other science fiction works.\n\nThe concept can be traced to H. G. Wells' novel \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\" (1896), in which the titular scientist transforms animals into horrifying parodies of humans through surgery and psychological torment. The resulting animal-people obsessively recite the Law, a series of prohibitions against reversion to animal behaviors, with the haunting refrain of \"Are we not men?\" Wells' novel reflects Victorian concerns about vivisection and of the power of unrestrained scientific experimentation to do terrible harm.\n\nOther early literary examples can be found in the following works:\n\nDavid Brin has stated that his Uplift Universe was written at least in part in response to the common assumption in earlier science fiction such as Smith's work and \"Planet of the Apes\" that uplifted animals would, or even should, be treated as possessions rather than people. As a result, a significant part of the conflict in the series revolves around the differing policies of Galactics and humans toward their client races. Galactic races traditionally hold their uplifted \"clients\" in a hundred-millennium-long indenture, during which the \"patrons\" have extensive rights and claims over clients' lives and labor power. In contrast, humans have given their uplifted dolphins and chimpanzees near-equal civil rights, with a few legal and economic disabilities related to their unfinished state. A key scene in \"Startide Rising\" is a discussion between a self-aware computer (the Niss) and a leading human (Gillian) about how the events during their venture (and hence the novel's plot) relate to the morality of the Galactics' system of uplift.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22613602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22613602", "title": "Vaccination Week In The Americas", "text": "Vaccination Week In The Americas\n\nVaccination Week In The Americas (VWA) is an annual public health campaign by the member states of the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) to promote equity and access to immunization. It is marked each year during the last week of April.\n\nSince 2012, the campaign has been celebrated globally across all regions of the World Health Organization (WHO) under World Immunization Week. The WHO reports there are 25 diseases for which vaccines exist for their prevention and control.\n\nVWA was initially proposed in April 23, 2002, under the presidency of Dr. Patricio Jamriska, Secretary of Health of the Republic of Ecuador and by the Ministers of Health in the Andean Region following a measles outbreak in Venezuela and Colombia. Originally endorsed through the adoption of Resolution CD44.R by the Directing Council of the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), the overarching objectives of VWA are to\npromote equity and access to immunization and strengthen immunization programs in the Region of the Americas by “reaching the unreached”, populations with otherwise limited access to regular health services and at heightened risk of contracting vaccine-preventable diseases. In the Americas, such populations can be found in areas such as urban fringes, low coverage municipalities, indigenous communities and rural and/or border zones. \n\nVWA has been used to conduct large-scale vaccination campaigns, introduce new vaccines, carry out communication and social mobilization campaigns, and to integrate other health promotion measures. Since its launch in 2003, over 365 million individuals have been vaccinated through campaigns conducted under the framework of the initiative.\n\nIn April 2012, PAHO joined the other five WHO regions to celebrate World Immunization Week. This followed the launch of European Immunization Week (EIW) in the WHO European region in 2005, and Vaccination Week campaigns launched in the WHO Eastern Mediterranean region in 2010, and in the WHO African and Western Pacific regions in 2011. The member states of the WHO South-East Asian region committed to the annual campaign in 2012.\n\nThe goals and activities for each VWA are chosen in accordance with a specific theme, and adapted in alignment with national health objectives. \n\nThe twelfth VWA takes place from 26 April to 3 May 2014, with the regional slogan: “\"Vaccination: Your best shot\".” This slogan was chosen to encourage people to protect themselves and their communities against the importation of polio, measles and other vaccine-preventable diseases, in the context of the upcoming 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil.\n\nVWA 2013 was marked from 20 to 27 April, with the regional slogan: “\"Vaccination: a shared responsibility\".”\nThe tenth annual VWA was held on 21-28 April 2012, giving public health organizations across the region another opportunity to advance efforts in childhood immunizations.\n\nThe ninth annual VWA was celebrated during 23–30 April 2011 under the slogan \"Vaccinate your family, protect your community\". Over 41 million individuals were vaccinated as a result of the 2011 VWA initiative. Regional events for VWA 2011 were held across large cities and small towns, and on bi- and tri-national borders across the region, including the Altiplano between Peru and Bolivia, and the Amazon Basin subregions.\n\nEvents for VWA 2010, which was celebrated from 24 April to 1 May 2010, targeted regional vaccination goals to reach children under 5 years of age, pregnant women, elderly populations, border and isolated populations, indigenous populations, and low coverage municipalities.\n\nThe seventh annual VWA took place from 25 April-2 May 2009. Themes emphasized during this VWA included the importance of family vaccination as well as the vaccination of health workers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37965711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37965711", "title": "Vendor Neutral Archive", "text": "Vendor Neutral Archive\n\nA Vendor Neutral Archive (VNA) is a medical imaging technology in which images and documents (and potentially any file of clinical relevance) are stored (archived) in a standard format with a standard interface, such that they can be accessed in a vendor-neutral manner by other systems.\n\nThis terminology is used as distinct from a traditional Picture Archiving and Communications Systems (PACS), although there is debate about where the boundary between a VNA and a PACS lies along the continuum of their common features.\n\nThe simplest definition is \"a medical device that stores medical images in a standard format with a standard interface, such that they can be accessed in a vendor-neutral manner by other systems\".\n\nSo-called \"vendor neutrality\" is implied by the standard format and interface, and the neutrality is with respect to vendor-specific devices that produce or consume those images (e.g., for display, distribution or analysis, with or without specific workflows, such as for radiology reporting, i.e., a PACS).\n\nThe exact definition and feature set is contentious though, and evolves as different vendors of VNAs attempt to distinguish themselves from their competitors and avoid being excluded, and customers express desires ranging from pragmatic to fantastic.\n\nThere is general agreement on the following key features:\n\n\nEach of the following features remain contentious, in the sense that some customers and vendors claim that some or all are fundamental to the concept, but others disagree:\n\n\nTraditionally, the need to store medical images has been most common in the radiology and nuclear medicine departments, and has been implemented in the form of sub-specialty and departmental (PACS), which have combined the functions of image management and image archiving into a single solution. Whilst such systems all have standard interfaces (DICOM and IHE) for ingestion and distribution of images over the network and on physical media (like CD), typically the workflow and optimal performance for display are achieved using proprietary software and protocols. Further, the persistent storage \"inside\" a proprietary PACS may not be in a standard form, the PACS may not update the stored files with the latest study and demographic updates and annotations stored in the database, and it may extend, abuse or depend on specific standard and non-standard (private) DICOM attributes in the stored files.\n\nOver time, in many implementations, the underlying storage infrastructure has been \"factored\" out of the traditional (PACS) at the hardware and file system (DAS, NAS, SAN) level, and are supplied instead by non-domain-specific computer data storage vendors.\n\nAs more medical specialties incorporate images in their practice, the need to extend image storage and distribution capability to other departments, enterprise wide. Increasingly there is a desire to inter-operate at a higher application level, separating departmental-specific workflows, display and analysis solutions from image storage infrastructure, using standard protocols that are image and metadata aware, without sacrificing display performance.\n\nA complicating factor is that the (PACS) offerings are in a constant state of flux with respect to features and quality of service, and traditionally users will abandon one vendor and replace their product with another's every 3–5 years. This triggers the need to \"migrate\" the images and associated information to the new architecture without data loss, a non-trivial task despite the use of standard formats for image encoding. The concept of a VNA theoretically allows for greater stability (re-usability and less frequent migration) at the archive level, despite rapid evolution and change at the higher application-level (display and workflow). Of course, migrating from one vendor's VNA to another isn't trivial either, just hopefully less frequent.\n\nAn alternative term for a VNA is a \"PACS Neutral Archive\", which perhaps better conveys the original intent, but this term is rarely used, and for better or for worse, VNA has become the buzzword of choice amongst customers and salesmen.\n\nAs noted above, the archive of images was naturally mostly static—that is, most of the content of an archive is unchanged, with only a (relatively) small number of examinations added each day. On the other hand, the PACS workstation benefits from the rapid advance of technology. Therefore, it was suggested as early as 1998 that it would be desirable to separate these such that the archive was independent of the workstation. In that article it was noted that one or more 'Independent DICOM Archives' could achieve this benefit and even provide inter-enterprise image sharing. The article also noted the practical challenges at the time—namely the relative inefficiency of doing DICOM queries against such multiple archives and separating out those responses relevant for pre-fetching, as well as challenges of patient identifiers. Never-the-less, the ability to have images in a separate system from the workstation was felt to be an important capability, and ultimately, Erickson and colleagues developed this into a startup company, TeraMedica in 2000, which was purchased by Fuji Medical Systems in 2015.\n\nIn one of many blog entries of many on the subject, Michael Gray makes a reference to an early description of the concept of separating the front-end clinical applications from the back-end storage function, in an article by Nadim Daher, a Medical Imaging Market Analyst at Frost & Sullivan.\n\nA long running Aunt Minnie PACS Forum thread digressed to discuss the issue of neutral archives amongst a broader audience after a response from Michael Gray.\n\nA white paper from 2009 by Wayne DeJarnette is an early attempt to establish a definition based on a required feature set, and his company has also provided a more recent interpretation.\n\nMichael Gray offers his essential ingredients of a VNA in his 2009 blog entry, making reference to Acuo's checklist of attributes, the most recent form of which can be found in Shannon Werb's white paper on attributes of a \"true\" VNA.\n\nHerman Oosterwijk provides a more recent description on behalf of another vendor, Teramedica, in his white paper, in which he offers a more detailed definition: \"A Vendor Neutral Archive (VNA) is a medical device that provides scalable image and information and life cycle management so that images and related information can be queried, stored, and retrieved in a manner that is defined by open standards at multiple department, enterprise, and regional level while maintaining patient privacy and security. Characteristic for a VNA is that it provides a patient-centric approach that transcends upgrades and changes of the different viewing, acquisition, and workflow management components as they should be interchangeable without having to migrate, convert, or change the data formats or interface of the VNA.\"\n\nThe relationship of VNA to storage of medical images in the cloud is also nebulous, though offers high potential for buzzword compliance, and Michael Gray provides some clarity in his paper commissioned by EMC.\n\nVarious alternative deployment models and frameworks have been described, which address matters of cost, value and barriers to entry.\nSince the term \"VNA\" has been so abused as a marketing term, it has already achieved mythical status.\n\nA passive archive will simply store what it receives, and potentially overwrite the same thing when it is received again with changes but the same (unique) identifiers. This is insufficient in a production operation, where mistakes are made, and it is necessary to correct patient demographics, or correct mistakes (wrong patient or request or side was selected during an exam and incorrect information present in the image headers).\n\nStandards exist that cover some use cases, such as IHE Patient Information Reconciliation (PIR) and Imaging Object Change Management (IOCM).\n\nFor an archive to span departments, institutions, regions or even national boundaries, the question of identification of entities and concepts must be addressed.\n\nIn general, within a domain such as an individual institution, patient identifiers and identifiers of request, studies and reports (e.g., by accession numbers) are assigned uniquely within that domain, but not outside. Most internal systems (and most PACS) do not manage the existence of multiple identity domains, and if identifiers are used across domains then collisions and ambiguity occur. Thus each identifier needs to either be qualified by its \"assigning authority\" when used (the approach taken by the DICOM-based IHE Multiple Image Manager Archive (MIMA) profile) or coerced into a single \"canonical\" identifier that spans the scope of the larger domain that includes all integrated cross-enterprise systems (the approach taken by IHE Cross Enterprise Document Sharing. When importing outside images into the local archive, this matter also has to be addressed, usually by mapping the outside identifier into an internal identifier and re-encoding the information (coercion) in the DICOM \"header\" or other meta-data (such as by the manner specified in Import Reconciliation Workflow).\n\nWhether support for this is an essential feature for a VNA depends on what environment it is intended to be deployed in (within one enterprise or across enterprises), but robust support provides insurance against future deployment configuration changes (such as enterprise mergers).\n\nLikewise, local code sets used for such things as procedure codes (for \"orderables\", as opposed to billing codes), are not well standardized, and where these are useful in images to drive workflow and display (such as hanging protocols), an ability to map these too is a useful feature.\n\nOne purpose of a VNA is to store information and serve it to multiple systems that may have different requirements for its use and expectations for very specific characteristics of the DICOM attributes and values stored in them, both standard and private.\n\nThe concept of \"dynamic tag morphing\" is touted as a solution to the problem of two different systems expecting different values in the same attribute. \"Tag morphing\" refers to changing the values in one or more attributes (usually DICOM data elements in this context). This may be done \"statically\", in which case only one mapping is performed, or \"dynamically\", in which case multiple mappings, each specific to a particular recipient, is performed.\n\nIn its degenerate form, the ability to map any tag and value to any other is inherently dangerous and undermines the value of attempting to standardize attributes in the first place, and the efforts by modality and PACS vendors to use them \"properly\". That said, there is variation in the installed base and even new products in how some fields are used, particularly for highly specific and advanced forms of imaging, and corresponding variation in what advanced display and analysis applications expect in their input. Accordingly this is a popular feature, despite its dangers. Some will argue strongly that it is an essential feature to be classed as a VNA.\n\nThis feature is reminiscent of what is common in the HL7 version 2 world, a so-called Interface Engine, which is designed to map pretty much anything to anything else, depending on the source and target.\n\nA typical use case is to change the values in Series Description supplied by acquisition modalities, in order to allow two different PACS sharing the same data to use different hanging protocol rules based in Series Description. Arguably, this could be achieved in a more standard way if modalities populated other attributes in more detail, acquisition protocols and codes for them were better standardized and hanging protocol engines were more flexible, but given the limitations of the state of the art, this technique remains useful.\n\nDynamic tag morphing is distinct from the specific attribute changes related to Cross-domain Identity and Code Resolution (what DICOM in PS 3.4 refers to as \"coercion\"), for which there are standards defined for what to change, when and how, and which often involve additional actors such as a Master Patient Index, though some proponents lump these together and some products implement them using the same mechanism.\n\nMichael Gray was an early proponent of tag morphing and regards it an essential VNA feature. A description of tag morphing use-cases can be found in Wayne Dejarnette's 2010 white paper.\n\nDisk is cheap, though power and air-conditioning are not, but regardless, storage has a finite cost, particularly when one is paying as one goes rather than using a locally hosted capitalized infra-structure.\n\nAccordingly, when medico-legal retention periods expire, or the clinical utility expires (such as on a patient's death), many users would like to be able to purge their storage. The rules for this are complex, and vary between jurisdictions as well as according to local policy. Given the conflicting demands of financiers, risk managers, litigators, researchers and educators, coming to agreement on such a policy may be difficult.\n\nRegardless, a potentially useful VNA feature is support for locally customizable rule-based purging (culling) criteria, whether it be by implementing the rules directly, or responding to IHE Imaging Object Change Management (IOCM) requests from a separate rules engine.\n\nVNAs should have no difficulty storing DICOM content such images and associated information such as presentation states and so-called \"evidence documents\", such as DICOM Structured Reports containing such things as measurements recorded by the modality, or post-processing results such as from CAD.\n\nIn a clinical setting, however, other document and bulk object types may be available that it would be desirable to store. Most PACS take the approach of converting these to DICOM, in some cases using objects intended to \"encapsulate\" another type of object. The classic example is a scanned document stored as a PDF file and encapsulated in a DICOM PDF object along with sufficient metadata to identify it and manage it, as if it were an image. VNAs should support these type of encapsulated DICOM objects and the DICOM \"header\" provides a means to obtain the metadata for indexing to support query and retrieval. Michael Gray elaborates in detail on this topic in his white paper on the subject.\n\nFor other object types, or when there is no DICOM encapsulation object available, or when there is no need to interface with DICOM systems, as long as there is a standard means of providing the necessary metadata for indexing, such as by using HL7 version 2 messages or XDS registry services, then in theory a VNA could store anything.\n\nSpecific types of non-DICOM content, such as an HL7 CDA document instance containing, for example, a radiology report, could be stored either as a XDS, or first encapsulated in a DICOM Encapsulated CDA object and stored using DICOM services, or its content and header could be transcoded into a DICOM Structured Report instance. A fully featured VNA might have the ability to transcode any single instance into another form depending on what the requesting system needed (\"object morphing\", if you will).\n\nA description of Wayne Dejarnette's approach to non-DICOM object storage in his product is described in his 2009 white paper.\n\nThere is general agreement that the use of the DICOM file format is required for images, and that where images are compressed for archival or transport, standard, not proprietary, compression schemes (transfer syntaxes) need to be used. Indeed, a distinguishing feature of most VNAs as opposed to many traditional PACS is the avoidance of proprietary internal formats ostensibly used in the past for \"performance\" reasons, whilst still obtaining good performance across the interfaces.\n\nImplementations may vary in the range of supported compression schemes, whether or not reversible (lossless) compression is mandatory for medico-legal archival purposes. Implementations also vary in the range of modality-specific image types that they support; though many archives will support all DICOM image information objects in principle, some extreme cases, like whole slide pathology images and long videos may not be supported. A general feature of VNAs is to attempt to preserve all attributes as originally supplied, including private (proprietary) attributes whether from the acquisition modality or added by other intervening applications (such as QC workstations or PACS).\n\nDICOM describes many different \"Information Object Definitions\" and \"SOP Classes\" for storage of images with specific metadata related to particular modalities and applications, and the list of these grows as technology evolves. Since the DICOM format is inherently extensible, and all new objects build upon a common encoding and pattern, a VNAs should be able to store any DICOM image object, regardless of whether the SOP Class is recognized or new. This may be achieved through the use of field-modifiable configuration to add new SOP Classes, or by analysis of the contents of the objects \"header\", or by the simple of approach of accepting, storing and regurgitating anything transferred via a DICOM C-STORE operation.\n\nSupport of the basic DICOM C-STORE, C-FIND, C-MOVE and preferably C-GET are fundamental and not debated. The basic uncompressed transfer syntaxes including implicit and explicit VR little-endian, and the less common big-endian transfer syntax are typically supported. The range of compressed transfer syntaxes usually includes lossless JPEG and reversible and irreversible JPEG 2000, occasionally JPEG-LS, and usually lossy JPEG for images that were supplied that way (especially true color photographs. Support for motion compression (other than multi-frame JPEG) is less common, but perhaps more common in VNAs than in PACSs, especially for storage and regurgitation without viewing.\n\nMost would agree that an important VNA interface is the original version of Web Access to DICOM Persistent Objects (WADO), which allows single images to be retrieved with an HTTP URL in either DICOM file format or pre-rendered into a consumer format like JPEG.\n\nThe SOAP Web Service based transactions of the IHE Cross Enterprise Document Sharing for Imaging are also generally considered a prerequisite for a claim to be a VNA.\n\nThe grayscale or color rendering transformation applied to images for display should be stored as a DICOM Presentation State object. These objects support grayscale and true color images, as well as the application of a pseudo-color lookup table to grayscale images. Presentation states can also record any zooming and panning (displayed area selection) applied. IHE uses these in the Consistent Presentation of Images (CPI) profile\n\nSince many modern PACS can also store image annotations using DICOM Presentation State objects, a VNA needs to support these, including not just storage and regurgitation, but also selection and display in any viewer supplied as a VNA component.\n\nThe preferred format for storage of annotations, regions of interest, and measurements is the DICOM Structured Report (SR) object, which allows structure, coded and semantic information to be persisted, rather than just presentation. IHE refers to these as Evidence Documents (ED). DICOM SR objects may also be produced in the context of the IHE specifies these in the Simple Image and Numeric Report (SINR) profile.\n\nSince many Acquisition Modalities, mammography CAD systems and quantitative image analysis workstations produce SR objects, a VNA should be capable of storing and regurgitating these. Ideally, any viewer component should be capable of a generic (if not ideal) rendering of the content of any SR, including display of coordinates on referenced images.\n\nFor specific domains, such as Radiotherapy, an older format, the DICOM RT Structure Set, which can encode 3D patient relative coordinate isocontours (only) is used, and some non-RT workstations produce these as well instead of SRs. A VNA needs to support these too.\n\nA common concept in a PACS is for the user (such as a modality operator or interpreting radiologist) to flag some images (or other objects) as being \"key\", i.e., of particular interest for some reason. Though obsolete PACS may only record this as a flag in an internal database, modern PACS use the DICOM Key Object Selection object (a specialized form of SR) to export this information. This usage is described in the IHE Key Image Note (KIN) profile. A VNA needs to support storage and regurgitation of KOS objects, as well as selection and display of these in any viewer.\n\nSince many medical imaging techniques deliver non-trivial amounts of ionizing radiation to the patient, the dose exposure needs to be tracked, and in some jurisdictions this must be recorded by law. DICOM defines a specialized form of Structured Report, the Radiation Dose Structured Report (RDSR) to encode this. IHE uses these in the Radiation Exposure Management (REM) profile. A VNA must support storage and regurgitation these, and ideally, would be able to extract critical information for display in any viewer.\n\nIn radiology and nuclear medicine applications, the practice of dictating and transcribing (or using speech recognition) is well entrenched and the output of these is typically unstructured or minimally structured prose, encoded as plain text and distributed by fax or HL7 version 2 messages or some equally primitive mechanism. The persistent form of these \"documents\" is not well-standardized, but many customers expect a VNA to be able to accept them in whatever local format is preferred. The same principles apply as for the storage of any non-DICOM content, including the use of HL7 version 2 messages or XDS to provide metadata in lieu of a structured \"header\", such as in the case of reports rendered as PDF, when they have not been encapsulated in DICOM or CDA objects. Now that HL7 has promised to relax its previously closed IP policy, including offering CDA free for use, it is possible that CDA will become the preferred form of encoding, but VNAs will still need to accept (and possibly transcode) reports in a plethora of form from the installed base. DICOM defines templates for the encoding of human-generated reports as DICOM Structured Report (SR) objects, and IHE specifies these in the Simple Image and Numeric Report (SINR) profile.\n\nIn addition to DICOM RT Structure Sets, for a VNA to be usable in an enterprise that performs Radiotherapy, the entire family of DICOM RT objects for beam, ion and brachytherapy need to be stored and regurgitated.\n\nDICOM defines a Raw Data object that is essentially a conventional DICOM composite instance header with patient, study, series and instance information, but no payload. It was intended for the storage of the raw data that is not easily represented as an image or image-like object, such as the raw views obtained from the detectors of a CT scanner, or the k-space data from an MRI scanner, but can be used to encode anything. A VNA should be able to store and regurgitate these, even though it may be unaware of their contents and only the originating device may be able to interpret them.\n\nThough there are many consumer formats for encoding audio in widespread use, these lack the header or metadata necessary to identify the patient and encounter. A VNA that wants to support these needs to have a means of providing such information, such as submission using XDS. DICOM does define a Basic Audio object, and though it does not support the plethora of audio codecs available in the consumer world, some PACS do produce them, so a VNA should support these.\n\nTime-based waveforms (such as ECGs) may be stored as DICOM or in a multitude of other formats, and the same principles apply as for audio; i.e., if the format is a medically oriented one, use the header meta-data for indexing during ingestion, if not, use XDS to register it.\n\nA DICOM MR Spectroscopy object is defined, and since some modalities produce it, a VNA should be able to store and regurgitate instances of it.\n\nDICOM allows for the concept of Private SOP Classes, which use the DICOM encoding and transfer mechanisms but whose content is opaque. Vendors use these to good effect when necessary to encode information that has not been standardized, and also abuse them for convenience in lieu of using a standard encoding. Regardless, since their content may be important to the clinical workflow, a VNA should be configurable to accept, store and regurgitate these.\n\n\nGiven the convoluted history, it should come as no surprise that two products claiming to be VNAs may have completely different feature sets and performance. However, there are essentially four categories of product:\n\n\nThe heritage of any individual product line may be a significant factor when considering suitability for a different application than originally intended, despite the purported feature set as re-envisaged by a creative marketing department.\n\nThe size of the global VNA market is small relative to the PACS market, but is purported to be growing.\n\nAn overview of the state of the VNA market as of late 2012 can be found in this summary.\n"}
{"id": "23607668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23607668", "title": "Wash versus trim", "text": "Wash versus trim\n\nThe US Department of Agriculture (USDA) requires that any time fecal contamination is detected during meat and poultry processing, it must be removed from the carcass. Wash versus trim is shorthand used to characterize the debate over how this rule has been applied and enforced by USDA in meat and poultry plants.\n\nFor a number of years, poultry processors have been permitted to either rinse (wash) off or cut (trim) away such contamination, but beef processors have only been permitted to (trim) it with a knife. This, they argue, costs them money in lost product weight and imposes a requirement that poultry producers do not have to meet. The policy jargon for this debate is \"wash versus trim\". USDA, early in 1997, clarified its zero tolerance rule for poultry; a year earlier it gave beef plants permission to use a new high-temperature vacuuming method to remove fecal contamination in lieu of cutting it off.\n\n"}
