{"id": "20306167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20306167", "title": "African Americans in France", "text": "African Americans in France\n\nAfrican Americans (also referred to as Afro-Americans or Black Americans) in France are people of African American heritage or black people from the United States who are or have become residents or citizens of France, as well as students and temporary workers.\n\nAfrican Americans, who are largely descended from Africans of the American colonial era, have lived and worked in France since the 1800s. Unofficial figures indicate that up to 50,000 free blacks emigrated to Paris from Louisiana in the decades after Napoleon sold the territory to the United States in 1803. Paris saw the beginnings of an African-American community in the aftermath of World War I when about 200,000 were brought over to fight. Ninety per cent of these soldiers were from the American South. Many black GIs decided to stay in France after having been well received by the French, and others followed them. France was viewed by many African Americans as a welcome change from the widespread racism in the United States. It was during this time that jazz was introduced to the French and black culture was born in Paris. African American musicians, artists and Harlem Renaissance writers found 1920s Paris ready to embrace them with open arms. Montmartre became the center of the small community, with jazz clubs such as Le Grand Duc, Chez Florence and Bricktop's thriving in Paris. World War II brought all the fanfare to an abrupt halt. The German Nazi invasion of Paris in June 1940 meant suppression of the \"corrupt\" influence of jazz in the French capital and danger of imprisonment for African Americans choosing to remain in the city. Most Americans, black as well as white, left Paris at this time.\n\nThe political upheavals surrounding the Civil Rights Movement and the Vietnam War protests in the United States were mirrored by civil unrest in France. African-American journalist William Gardner Smith who was also a novelist (e.g., Last of the Conquerors), who worked for the French news service Agence France-Presse, reported the events of the student uprising in May 1968. Many blacks supported this movement, which escalated into a virtual shutdown of the entire country of France. Once order was restored however, a notable increase in repressive tendencies was observed in the French police and immigration authorities. In addition, the presence of newly arrived enclaves of blacks from many African and Caribbean nations offer African Americans the chance to experience new forms of black culture .\n\nTyler Stovall, a history professor at the University of California, Berkeley, has said:\n\nIn many ways, African Americans came to France as a sort of privileged minority, a kind of model minority, if you will—a group that benefited not only from French fascination with blackness, but a French fascination about Americanness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44849325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44849325", "title": "Albanians in Egypt", "text": "Albanians in Egypt\n\nThe Albanian community in Egypt started by Ottoman rulers and military personnel appointed in the Egyptian province. A substantial community would grow up later by soldiers and mercenaries who settled in the second half of the 18th century and made a name for themselves in the Ottoman struggle to expel French troops in 1798–1801. Muhammad Ali (1769–1849) founded the Albanian dynasty of Egypt which lasted there until 1952. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, many other Albanians settled into Egypt for economical and political reasons. With the fedayeen, Muslim Brotherhood, and the culminating Egyptian Revolution of 1952 the Albanian community in Egypt diminished.\n\nSince 1517, Egypt became an Ottoman province. An Ottoman ruler would be appointed in Cairo. The title \"beylerbey\" refers to the regular governors specifically appointed to the post by the Ottoman sultan, while the title \"kaymakam\", when used in the context of Ottoman Egypt, refers to an acting governor who ruled over the province between the departure of the previous governor and the arrival of the next one. Several of these were of Albanian descent, as well as many within the military and bashiazouk units. Between the most known were Dukakinzade Mehmed Pasha, Koca Sinan Pasha, Abdurrahman Abdi Arnavut Pasha, and Mere Hüseyin Pasha.\n<br>During and after the French campaign in Egypt and Syria, the Ottomans would deploy many Albanian pashas, beys, military units, as well as auxiliary personnel. Some of them were Tahir Pasha Pojani with his brothers Hasan Pasha, Dalip, Isuf, and Abdul Bey, Omer Pasha Vrioni, Muharrem Bey Vrioni, Rustem Aga Shkodrani and so on. Sarechesme Halil Agha, commanding the Kavala Volunteer Contingent, would bring along his cousin, Muhammad (Mehmed) Ali, a young second rank commander.\n\nMuhammad Ali was a commander in the Ottoman army that was sent to drive Napoleon's forces out of Egypt, but upon the French withdrawal, seized power himself and forced the Ottoman Sultan Mahmud II to recognize him as Wāli, or Governor of Egypt in 1805. He traced his ancestry back to Ibrahim Aga, from Korca, Albania, who had moved to Kavala. Demonstrating his grander ambitions, he took the title of Khedive; however, this was not sanctioned by the Sublime Porte.\n\nMuhammad Ali transformed Egypt into a regional power which he saw as the natural successor to the decaying Ottoman Empire. He constructed a military state with around four percent of the populace serving the army to raise Egypt to a powerful positioning in the Ottoman Empire in a way showing various similarities to the Soviet strategies (without communism) conducted in the 20th century. Muhammad Ali summed up his vision for Egypt in this way:\n\nAt the height of his power, Muhammad Ali and his son Ibrahim Pasha's military strength did indeed threaten the very existence of the Ottoman Empire as he sought to supplant the Osman Dynasty with his own. Ultimately, the intervention of the Great Powers prevented Egyptian forces from marching on Constantinople, and henceforth, his dynasty's rule would be limited to Africa, and Sinai. Muhammad Ali had conquered Sudan in the first half of his reign and Egyptian control would be consolidated and expanded under his successors, most notably Ibrahim Pasha's son Isma'il I.\n\nThough Muhammad Ali and his descendants used the title of Khedive (Viceroy) in preference to the lesser Wāli, this was not recognized by the Porte until 1867 when Sultan Abdul-Aziz officially sanctioned its use by Isma'il Pasha and his successors. In contrast to his grandfather's policy of war against the Porte, Isma'il sought to strengthen the position of Egypt and Sudan and his dynasty using less confrontational means, and through a mixture of flattery and bribery, Isma'il secured official Ottoman recognition of Egypt and Sudan's virtual independence. This freedom was severely undermined in 1879 when the Sultan colluded with the Great Powers to depose Isma'il in favor of his son Tewfik. Three years later, Egypt and Sudan's freedom became little more than symbolic when the United Kingdom invaded and occupied the country, ostensibly to support Khedive Tewfik against his opponents in Ahmed Orabi's nationalist government. While the Khedive would continue to rule over Egypt and Sudan in name, in reality, ultimate power resided with the British High Commissioner.\nIn defiance of the Egyptians, the British proclaimed Sudan to be an Anglo-Egyptian Condominium, a territory under joint British and Egyptian rule rather than an integral part of Egypt. This was continually rejected by Egyptians, both in government and in the public at large, who insisted on the \"unity of the Nile Valley\", and would remain an issue of controversy and enmity between Egypt and Britain until Sudan's independence in 1956.\n\nIn 1914, Khedive Abbas II sided with the Ottoman Empire which had joined the Central Powers in the World War I, and was promptly deposed by the British in favor of his uncle Hussein Kamel. The legal fiction of Ottoman sovereignty over Egypt and Sudan, which had for all intents and purposes ended in 1805, was officially terminated, Hussein Kamel was declared Sultan of Egypt and Sudan, and the country became a British Protectorate. With nationalist sentiment rising, as evidenced by the revolution of 1919, Britain formally recognized Egyptian independence in 1922, and Hussein Kamel's successor, Sultan Fuad I, substituted the title of King for Sultan. However, British occupation and interference in Egyptian and Sudanese affairs persisted. Of particular concern to Egypt was Britain's continual efforts to divest Egypt of all control in Sudan. To both the King and the nationalist movement, this was intolerable, and the Egyptian Government made a point of stressing that Fuad and his son King Farouk I were \"King of Egypt and Sudan\".\n\nThe reign of Farouk was characterized by ever increasing nationalist discontent over the British occupation, royal corruption and incompetence, and the disastrous 1948 Arab–Israeli War. All these factors served to terminally undermine Farouk's position and paved the way for the revolution of 1952. Farouk was forced to abdicate in favor of his infant son Ahmed-Fuad who became King Fuad II, while administration of the country passed to the Free Officers Movement under Muhammad Naguib and Gamal Abdel Nasser. The infant king's reign lasted less than a year and on June 18, 1953, the revolutionaries abolished the monarchy and declared Egypt a republic, ending a century and a half of the Muhammad Ali Dynasty's rule.Emerging victorious from a war-triangle (Ottomans, Mamluks, and his loyal troops), Mehmed Ali made good use of Albanian irregulars services as mercenaries and troops to bolster his reign. Albanian mercenaries, or Arnauts, presented the backbone of Ali's army and were known as elite and undisciplined soldiers of the Ottoman Empire armies. With the rise of Muhammad Ali in power, many of them would settle in Egypt and serve there. By 1815, the number of Albanian military was over 7000. Albanian troops partook in the war against the Wahhabi movement in Arabia (1811-18) and in the conquest of the Sudan (1820–24). The number of Albanian troops would diminish in 1823, when Ibrahim Pasha, Ali's son, would join the Ottoman armies in the Greek War of Independence along with circa 17,000 men, many of them Albanians. Ali's dynasty would continue to rule Egypt until 1952.\n\nAlbanian immigration to Egypt continued throughout the 19th century, and indeed into the first three decades of the 20th century. By that time Egypt experienced a massive economic development and prosperity, French and British investments (i.e. the Suez Canal), modernization, and opportunity for entrepreneurship. The economical prosperity attracted many emigrants from the Albanian lands, mainly from Korçë and Kolonjë regions. With some exceptions, most of the figures were educated members of the Orthodox community from south Albania who stationed in the vicinity of the Greek communities. Some of them published articles in the Greek community newspapers as well, frequently polemizing regarding Albanian identity. The Albanian community in Egypt, with their patriotic societies and publishing activities, played an important role in the Albanian national awakening at the end of the 19th century. The first Albanian society of Egypt was founded in 1875. It was named \"Vëllazëria e Parë\" (First Brotherhood) and was led by Thimi Mitko.\nNationalist figures and writers such as Thimi Mitko, Spiro Dine, Filip Shiroka, Jani Vruho, Nikolla Naço, Anastas Avramidhi, Thoma Kreini, Thoma Avrami, Thanas Tashko, Stefan Zurani, Andon Zako Çajupi, Mihal Zallari, Milo Duçi, Loni Logori, Fan Noli, Aleksander Xhuvani, George Adamidis Frashëri and many others were all active in Egypt at some point in their careers. Some of them used it as temporary solution before moving to US or elsewhere, while some other settled permanently. Spiro Dine founded in 1881 the local branch of Society for the Publication of Albanian Writings in Shibin Al Kawm, a precursor and lobbyist for the Albanian education which started with the Albanian School of Korçë. Many newspapers and collections would come out, including the successful \"Shkopi\" (\"The stick\"), \"Rrufeja\" (\"The lightning\"), \"Belietta Sskiypetare\" (\"The Albanian Bee\") and so on. Many others would come out for a shorter time: Milo Duçi would publish the magazines \"Toska\" (The Tosk) during 1901-02, \"Besa-Besë\" (Pledge for a pledge) during 1904-05 together with Thoma Avrami, \"Besa\" (Besa) of 1905 which lasted for 6 issues and was printed by Al-Tawfik in Cairo, and newspapers \"Shqipëria\" (Albania) from October 1906 to February 1907, a daily of Cairo with the last two issues coming out in Maghagha, and the weekly \"Bisedimet\" (The discussions) of 1925-26 with 60 issues in total, which would be the last Albanian-language newspaper in Egypt. Aleksander Xhuvani published the newspaper \"Shkreptima\" (The lightning) in 1912 in Cairo. In 1922, Duçi established also the publishing company \"Shtëpia botonjëse shqiptare/Société Albanaise d'édition\" (Albanian Publishing House). Prominent Albanian organizations were: \"Vëllazëria Shqiptare\" (Albanian Fraternity) founded on 1 My 1894 in Beni-Suef, and \"Bashkimi\" (The union) which was found everywhere in Albanian populated areas and diaspora. It was an Albanian high official in Egypt, who sponsored the Giuseppe Verdi's opera \"Aida\" in Khedivial Opera House in 1871.\n\nIn 1907, with the initiative of Mihal Turtulli, Jani Vruho, and Thanas Tashko, the Albanian community send a promemorium to the Second Hague Conference for Peace, demanding support for the civic rights of the Albanian population under the oppression of Abdul Hamid II. Thanas Tashko would represent the community in the Congress of Manastir of 1908, while Loni Logori in the Congress of Elbasan of 1909. Another prominent Albanian, Fan Noli, would settle shortly in Egypt. Vruho and Tashko convinced him to move to US, and supported him financially. Another memorandum was signed with the initiative of Andon Zako and was sent to the Paris Peace Conference in 1919. In 1924, a regrouping of the Albanian clubs and societies was done in Cario, under a unique society named \"Lidhja e Shqiptarve te Egjiptit\" (The League of the Albanians of Egypt), with Jani Vruho as chairman. More societies would follow; \"Shoqerija Mireberse\" (Benefactor Society) of Hipokrat Goda from Korçë established in 1926, and \"Shoqeria e Miqeve\" (Friends' Club) of Andon Zako in 1927. Thoma Kreini founded the \"Tomorri\" society, hoping to publish a newspaper with the same name but was unsuccessful. An Albanian school operated during 1934-1939, initially supported by the \"Shpresa\" (Hope) society founded by Stathi Ikonomi, and later by the exiled King Zog I. Evangjel Avramushi established in 1940 the first cinematographic studio in Egypt, named \"AHRAM\". The Albanian Bektashi community had its own \"tekke\" in Egypt, the famed \"Magauri tekke\" on the outskirts of Cairo, which was headed by Baba Ahmet Sirri Glina of Përmet. The tekke would be visited frequently by King Faruk. Prince Kamal el Dine Hussein, Princess Zeynepe, daughter of Isma'il Pasha, Princess Myzejen Zogolli, sister of King Zog I were some of the notables who were buried there.\n\nImmediately afterwards - with the seizure of power by Gamel Abdel Nasser and the subsequent nationalist Arabization policy in Egypt.\nMany Albanians left Egypt for Albania and the United States. Many Albanian families who decided to stay in Egypt were partly assimilated and partly killed from the Army of Gamel Abdel Nasser.\n\nA few Albanian kept coming to Egypt throughout World War II and afterwards, most of them doing so to escape the Communist regime in Albania established on November 1944. Names would include Baba Rexheb, a Bektashi monk, former minister Mirash Ivanaj, Branko Merxhani, and even the former King Ahmet Zogu with his family. After King Zog and the Albanian royal family were forced out of Albania during the war, they took up residence in Egypt from 1946 to 1955 and were received by King Farouk who reigned during 1936–1952, himself a descendant of Mehmed Ali Pasha. The presence of this Albanian community lasted in Egypt until Gamal Abdel Nasser came to power. \nWith the advent of Gamal Abdel Nasser and the Arab nationalization of Egypt, not only the royal family but also the entire Albanian community of around 4,000 families became the targets of hostility. They were forced to leave the country, thus closing the Albanian chapter in Egypt. Most of the Bektashi community moved to U.S. or Canada. Baba Rexheb established the first Albanian-American Bektashi monastery in the Detroit suburb of Taylor. With the rise in power of Anwar Sadat, the stance toward Albanians changed, but just a few from the exiled families returned to Egypt. In recent times the number of people estimated to be of Albanian heritage in Egypt is 18,000.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2464217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2464217", "title": "Alexander Koral", "text": "Alexander Koral\n\nAlexander Koral (1897 – 1968) was an American member of the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA) who headed a network of spies for Soviet intelligence during World War II called the \"Art\" or \"Berg\" group. Koral's wife, Helen Koral, also was involved with the group.\n\nKoral was born in London on April 18, 1897.\n\nKoral began to work for New York City's Board of Education in 1926 as an engineer. By 1948, he was assistant engineer of construction.\n\nThe FBI first detected Koral in 1941 while surveiling Gaik Ovakimian, whom the FBI did not realize at the time was the head of KGB operations in the United States. The FBI noted Ovakimian meeting several times with Koral, though no espionage could be proved.\n\nAfter the War, in 1947, Koral confessed, when confronted by the FBI, that he was a courier for the KGB from 1939 to 1945. Koral told the FBI he was paid two thousand dollars to travel to different cities to pick up and deliver small packages and envelopes to different persons, including Nathan Gregory Silvermaster and Helen Silvermaster. In December 1945, Koral had been sent to tell Silvermaster “no more visits would be made to him”, at the time of Elizabeth Bentley's defection and the Soviet networks were being compromised. Koral identified Semyon Semenov as one of his contacts in Soviet intelligence to whom he had delivered materials.\n\nKoral was also a contact of Michael Straight. Koral's code name in the Soviet intelligence, and as deciphered in the venona decrypts is \"Berg\".\n\nOn August 8, 1948, the \"Washington Post\" reported: The curtain will rise again Monday morning [April 9, 1948] on Washington's current spy thriller when the House Committee on Un-American Activities calls upon two key witnesses to tell the public what they know of Communist espionage here... One witness will be Victor Perlo... The other will be Alexander Koral, described by Chairman Karl Mundt (R., S. Dak.) as a former \"contact\" man between New York and Washington. When asked to testify before HUAC on August 9, 1948, however, he pled the Fifth Amendment and refused to answer any questions about communist affiliations.\n\nOn August 10, 1948, the \"Washington Post\" reported: Two ashen-faced men stood up in the crowded caucus room of the Old House Office Building and were confronted by Miss Elizabeth T. Bentley, confessed courier for Communist underground... Both men, on the advice of counsel, refused to say whether or not they knew Ms. Bentely on the ground that an answer might tend to incriminate them... One was Victor Perlo... The other was Alexander Koral, a 51-year-old maintenance man employed by the New York City Board of Education, who was reminded when he was on the stand that he had already signed a confession to Government authorities of his part in a Washington-New York spy circuit. Koral refused to affirm or deny that he had made such a confession, and he refused to say on grounds of self-incrimination whether or not he is now or ever had been a Communist... Investigator Louis J. Russell, former FBI agent, took the stand... \"Koral... had a sone who was ill and had a large amount of hospital and medical bills.\" Koral was linked by Russell to Nathan Gregory Silvermaster.\n\nIn late September 1948, Koral was dismissed from his job for failing to cooperate with HUAC per Chapter 40 Section 903 of the New York City Charter.\n\nAlexander Koral is referenced in the following Venona project decrypts:\n\nThe Cold War International History Project (CWIHP) has the full text of former KGB agent Alexander Vassiliev's Notebooks containing new evidence on Koral's cooperation with the Soviet Union.\n\n\nDocumentation:\n\nBooks:\n"}
{"id": "54119842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54119842", "title": "Anne Piehl", "text": "Anne Piehl\n\nAnne Morrison Piehl (born November 13, 1964) is an American economist and criminologist. She is a professor of economics at Rutgers University, the director of Rutgers' Program in Criminal Justice, and a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. She joined Rutgers as an associate professor in 2005, and became a full professor there in 2012. Also in 2012, she became a fellow of the IZA Institute of Labor Economics. Her research interests include prisoner reentry programs and prison violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "5301070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5301070", "title": "Babuza language", "text": "Babuza language\n\nBabuza is a Formosan language of the Babuza and Taokas, indigenous peoples of Taiwan. It is related to or perhaps descended from Favorlang, attested from the 17th century.\n\nBabuza was once spoken along much of the western coast of Taiwan. Its two rather divergent dialects, Poavosa and extinct Taokas, were separated by Papora and Pazeh.\n\n"}
{"id": "24909471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24909471", "title": "Bakumpai people", "text": "Bakumpai people\n\nBakumpai or Baraki are indigenous people of Borneo and are considered as a sub-ethnic group of the Dayak Ngaju people group with Islamic background. The Bakumpai people first occupy along the Barito riverbanks in South Kalimantan and Central Kalimantan, from Marabahan to Puruk Cahu, Murung Raya Regency. The Bakumpai people first appeared as a newly recognized people group in census 2000 and were made up of 7.51% of Central Kalimantan population, which before this the Bakumpai people were considered as part of the Dayak people in a 1930 census.\n\nBakumpai people originate from the upstream region of the former Bakumpai district, while the settlement of the Barangas people (Baraki) are in the downstream region. On the northern side of the upstream region from the former Bakumpai district is the Mangkatib (Mengkatib) district, which makes the settlement of the Dayak Bara Dia people or Dayak Mengkatib people. The Bakumpai people as well as the Mengkatib people are descendants of the Ngaju people from Tanahdayak.\n\nThe name \"Bakumpai\" is a nickname for Dayak people who live along the Barito Riverbanks. In the Banjar language, Bakumpai comes from the word \"ba\" which means \"own\" and \"kumpai\" which means \"grass\". From this nickname, it is understood that this people dwell in the grassland region.\n\nAccording to legend, the origins of the Bakumpai Dayaks came from Ngaju people who settled on the current land which is called Marabahan. In the beginning, they practice Kaharingan, the religion of their ancestors, which can be seen as well in the cultures of other Dayak people. Later, they came across a charismatic man in that land, whom could cause the ground that he stood on to grow grass. That man is none other than Nabiyullah Khidir. In the story, they followed him and converted to Islam, and multiplied into a group of people. When they studied religion in a particular region together with their teacher, Nabiyullah Khidir, grass would begin to grow from the ground and thus they are referred to as Bakumpai people.\n\nThe Bakumpai people once had a kingdom that is much older than the kingdoms of the Banjar region, but because of supernatural abilities the kingdom had to be relocated to the Barito River and its king is known with the name \"Datuk Barito\". From Marabahan, they spread to the streams of Barito River. According to local folklore, there is an area in Murung Raya Regency called Muara Untu where in the beginning it was a jungle controlled by a race of jinn named \"Untu\". Later there was a Bakumpai man named, Raghuy who traveled and lived there. Until today if observed from the lineage of the Muara Untu people, they would trace their ancestors to Raghuy.\n\nThe Bakumpai people have been greatly influenced by the language, culture, customary laws and architecture of the Banjar people. Hence the Bakumpai people in terms of culture and customary laws are classified as part of Banjarese culture, but in linguistic terms the Bakumpai are closely related to the Ngaju people. They speak Bakumpai language.\n\nAlmost all Bakumpai people practices Islam and Kaharingan, the traditional belief of the Dayak people is relatively unseen compared to other Dayak people groups. Customary ceremonies that are related to old beliefs are such as \"Badewa\" and \"Manyanggar Lebu\" rituals.\n\nBakumpai people are considered as a sub-ethnic of the Ngaju people. The Ngaju people are one of the four people group from a bigger familial group also called as the Dayak Ngaju or Ot Danum people. This people group is also known as Dayak Ot Danum, as the Ngaju people are the descendants of the Dayak Ot Danum people that came from the upstream rivers that are found in the region but may have undergone changes in their language. Therefore, the Dayak Ot Danum people is considered as the parent tribe, but the Ngaju people is still the dominant ethnic in the region.\n\nThe tribal genealogy of the Bakumpai people:-\n\nThe relationship comparison of the Bakumpai people and the Ngaju people is liken to the relationship of the Tenggerese people and the Javanese people, where the Ngaju people is the parent ethnic of the Bakumpai people.\n\nThe population of the Bakumpai people in Indonesia is 171,000. In a 2000 census, the population of the Bakumpai people in South Kalimantan is 20,609. In South Kalimantan, they mostly found in Barito Kuala Regency with a population of 18,892.\n\nThe population of the Bakumpai people (2000 census) are divided as the following:-\n\nPopulation of the Bakumpai people in South Kalimantan of 20,609 are distributed into regencies and cities, such as:-\n\nRegencies or cities that have Bakumpai tribal organization are:-\n\nThe organization of the Bakumpai people is the \"Kerukunan Keluarga Bakumpai\" (KKB), which was Kalimantan's local party during the 1955 election.\n\n"}
{"id": "47148746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47148746", "title": "Beshas of Jagannath", "text": "Beshas of Jagannath\n\nThe Suna Besha, a period of celebration observed in Jagannath worship, occurs several times a year on occasions defined by the Hindu calendar. \n"}
{"id": "15442706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15442706", "title": "Bhanu Chander", "text": "Bhanu Chander\n\nBhanuchander () (born Madduri Bhanuchander) is an Indian film actor, director and producer known for his works predominantly in Telugu and Tamil cinema. He is the son of veteran composer Madduri Venugopal. He is known for his association with directors like K. Viswanath, Balu Mahendra, B. Narsing Rao, K. Balachander and S. S. Rajamouli. In 1990, he starred in \"Sutradharulu\", which won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Telugu for that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "32264357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32264357", "title": "Bondum Dogon", "text": "Bondum Dogon\n\nThe Bondum language, Bondum Dom, is a Dogon language spoken in Mali. It is closest to Dogul Dogon, though not enough for mutual intelligibility. Dialects are \"Kindjim\" and \"Nadjamba\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5184658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5184658", "title": "British Juggling Convention", "text": "British Juggling Convention\n\nThe British Juggling Convention (also known as The BJC) is an annual Juggling convention held in a different town or city in Britain every year. The event usually takes place in the Easter school holiday, usually lasting from the Wednesday to Sunday. The event is for all forms of juggling and object manipulation, plus many other circus skills. The BJC usually features many workshops, talks and shows during the day, renegade shows at night, and a public show on the Saturday.\n\nThe next British Juggling Convention will be held on 10th - 14th April, 2019, in Nottingham.\n\n"}
{"id": "3403560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3403560", "title": "Cambodians in France", "text": "Cambodians in France\n\nCambodians in France consist of ethnic Khmer people who were born in or immigrated to France. The population as of 2011 was estimated to be about 10,000, making the community one of the largest in the Cambodian diaspora. The Cambodian population in France is the most established outside Southeast Asia, with a presence dating to well before the Vietnam War and subsequent Indochina refugee crisis.\n\nCambodian immigration to France began in the latter half of the 19th century, when Cambodia became a French protectorate. The first wave of migrants largely consisted of students and workers belonging to the country's elite class, including members of the royal family. During World War I, soldiers and civilians in the French colonial empire were recruited to help with the war effort in Metropolitan France. About 2,000 Cambodians arrived in France during the conflict period.\n\nHowever, most Cambodians arrived in France as refugees as a result of their country's heavy turmoil during the latter half of the 20th century. Following the Khmer Rouge takeover in 1976, a small number of Cambodians were able to flee their country and arrive in France with the French government's assistance. A much larger influx of refugees arrived in France during the Cambodian–Vietnamese War that resulted in the collapse of the Khmer Rouge and end of the Cambodian Genocide in the 1980s.\n\nRoughly 50,000 Cambodian refugees arrived in France by 1989. France was an ideal destination for Cambodians who were educated or already had family present in the country, while poorer and uneducated refugees tended to immigrate to the United States and Australia. The final wave of refugees arrived in the late 1990s, when the last refugee camps closed. In contrast to the Vietnamese, Laotian and ethnic Chinese populations in France, Cambodian refugees from conflicts in Indochina arrived relatively later compared to their peers, and had a harder time finding government assistance.\n\nThe Cambodian French population is concentrated in Paris and the surrounding Île-de-France region, as well as in Lyon and the Rhône-Alpes region.\n\nIn contrast to Cambodian communities in the United States, Canada and Australia, the Cambodian population in France is on average, more educated, older and has a much higher average income. While the community is still attached to its country of origin in some cultural spheres, Cambodians in France have largely integrated into French society. Although Cambodia lost over 3.8 million educated citizens in its civil war, the remaining Cambodians managed to achieve a model minority image; and despite having income and education levels higher than other Cambodian diaspora communities, the average for the community is lower than the national average.\n\nBuddhism plays an important role in the community and is seen as a marker of ethnic identity; in contrast, the ability to speak the Khmer language is less emphasized. Though immigrant parents set up language schools for their children soon after migration, many children discontinued their language studies due to the difficulty of learning Khmer grammar and the Sanskrit-based Khmer alphabet.\n\nNumerically, the Khmer are the dominant group among Cambodians in France, but Cambodians of Chinese descent can also be found among the population; though interethnic marriages between Chinese and Khmers were common in Cambodia and remain so in France, the Chinese they have tended to organise themselves around the varieties they speak and remain somewhat separate from other Cambodians in France. A small number of Cambodians in France consist of the wives and mixed-race children of French colonisers who repatriated to France between 1955 and 1965; regardless of their ethnicity, many of those used Khmer rather than French as their home language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15467141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15467141", "title": "Chhachi (Punjabi clan)", "text": "Chhachi (Punjabi clan)\n\nChhachi (or Chachi, Chhachhi) is a west Punjabi clan and does not belong to khukhrain community. Chhachis live in India and Pakistan and are Hindu, Sikh or Muslim.\n\nIn Pakistan Chhachi's or Chachi's are settled in Bhera, Attock, Rawalpindi and Hazara.\n\n"}
{"id": "53261137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53261137", "title": "Child marriage in the United States", "text": "Child marriage in the United States\n\nChild marriage in the United States refers to a marriage in the United States where at least one party is under the age of 18.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2015, over 200,000 minors were legally married in the United States. The vast majority of child marriages were between a child and an adult. The majority of married children were girls.\n\nAs of October 2018, 48 out of 50 U.S. states have exceptions in their laws which allow children to marry (In 2018, Delaware and New Jersey became the first two states to completely ban child marriage). Of the 48 states which allow child marriage, 18 have no minimum age for minors to marry, under certain conditions, while 32 have a minimum age (ranging from 14 to 17). In addition, the District of Columbia and several US territories (such as Puerto Rico) allow children to marry.\n\nSince 2016, several states have raised their minimum age for minors to marry, or added a minimum age when they previously did not have one.\n\nIn many cases, minors in the US are married when they are under the age of sexual consent in their area (which ranges from 16 to 18). In some areas minors cannot legally divorce, leave their spouse, or enter a shelter to escape abuse. In 2010 in Tennessee, three 10-year-old girls were married to men aged 24-31. Meanwhile in Alabama, a 74-year-old man married a 14-year-old girl. Both states have since set minimum ages, of 17 and 16 respectively.\n\nIn the United States, the laws on marriageable age are largely left up to the various state governments, territory governments, and the federal District of Columbia.\n\nThe general age of marriage is 18 in every state, with the exception of Nebraska (19) and Mississippi (21).\n\nHowever, every state except Delaware and New Jersey allows exceptions to their general age of marriage in one or more of the following cases:\n\n\nSo, given one or more of these exceptions, as of October 2018:\n\n\nFrom 2017 to 2018 several states changed their law to set a minimum age, or to raise their minimum age higher. In 2018, Delaware and New Jersey banned child marriage with no exceptions. For more detailed information on recent changes in state marriage laws, see the section below.\n\n\nWhile the general legal age for marriage in Massachusetts is 18, children may be married with judicial consent with no minimum age limit. In the absence of any statutory minimum age, one opinion is that the traditional minimum common law marriageable age of 12 for girls and 14 for boys may still be in effect. Unlike many other states, in Massachusetts a child's marriage does not automatically emancipate the minor, or increase his or her legal rights beyond allowing the minor to consent to certain medical treatments.\n\nPuerto Rico is a territory of the United States, and its people are American citizens. The general age of marriage in Puerto Rico is 21, however males aged 18 and females aged 16 can marry with exceptions. In Guam, the general age is 18, but 16-year-olds can get married with the consent of at least one parent or guardian. In American Samoa, since 2018, the marriage age is 18 for both sexes; in September 2018, governor Lolo Moliga signed into law a bill changing the marriage age for girls from 14 to 18. In the District of Columbia the general age is 18, but 16-year-olds may marry with exceptions. In the U.S. Virgin Islands the age of marriage is 14 for females and 16 for males. In the Northern Mariana Islands males must be 18 to marry, while females can marry at 16 with parental consent.\n\nCritics have pointed out that laws regarding child marriage in the United States compare unfavorably to laws regarding child marriage in other countries. For instance, in 2017, Human Rights Watch pointed out that Afghanistan has a tougher law on child marriage than parts of the United States: in Afghanistan the minimum marriage is 15, and that only with permission from their father or a judge; otherwise it is 16. As of that date, in 25 US states there was no minimum marriage age at all if one or more of the grounds for exception existed; this number has now decreased to 18.\n\nIn some cases, child marriage may happen (either legally or informally) and constitute a forced marriage, often in the context of sex trafficking.\n\nIn many states, minors automatically achieve emancipated status once they get married\n\nIf minors are not emancipated, they may find themselves locked into the marriages, unable to leave or divorce an abusive spouse. About 80 percent of teenage marriages end in divorce, but many minors locked in a marriage contract must wait years before they are old enough to be able to legally end the marriage. Massachusetts is one such state where minors are not automatically emancipated upon getting married.\n\nIn the United States, the age of sexual consent ranges from 16 to 18 depending on state, territory/district or federal law.\n\nIn some states, it is possible for a minor to legally marry even if they are below the age of sexual consent in that state. Between 2000 and 2015, at least 200,000 minors were legally married in the US. 86% of these marriages were to an adult. About 5% of the minors were aged 15 and under meaning they would be under the age of sexual consent anywhere in the USA. State laws on age of sexual consent and age of marriage are very inconsistent. In some cases, judges who approve underage marriages are approving a marriage between a rapist and their victim.\n\nStatistics released by the Pew Research Center show that nearly 5 in every 1,000 15–17 year olds in the United States are married - a rate of 1 in 200.\n\nUnchained At Last, an organization dedicated to ending forced and child marriage in the United States, found that more than 167,000 children were married between 2000 and 2010. Based on the correlation between population and incidence of child marriage, they estimated that nearly 248,000 children were married in the US during that time.\n\nPlease note that incidence refers to the total amount, while rate refers to the amount per capita (adjusted for population).\n\nChild marriage is generally more common in the Southern United States.\n\nAccording to Pew Research Center, the highest incidence of child marriages is in West Virginia, Texas, Nevada, Oklahoma, Arkansas, California, Tennessee, and North Carolina.\n\nAccording to Frontline and Unchained At Last, the states with the highest rates (not incidence) of child marriage in 2010 were: Idaho, Utah, Arizona, Texas, Mississippi, Alabama, Arkansas, Kentucky, West Virginia and Missouri. Meanwhile the states with the lowest rates were Delaware, New Jersey, Montana, Indiana, North Dakota, Ohio, New York, Vermont, New Hampshire and Massachusetts. However, data was not available for 10 states including California, North Carolina, Georgia and Oklahoma.\n\n\nUnchained At Last found that only 14% of the child marriages conducted from 2000 to 2010 were between two children marrying each other. In most cases, child marriages are to adults aged 18-21, however at least 31% were to an adult 21 or older.\n\nIn over 400 cases, the adult was aged over 40. And in 31 cases, they were over 60. In 2010 in Idaho, a 65-year-old man married a 17-year-old girl. In Alabama, a 74-year-old man married a 14-year-old girl, though the state has since raised their minimum age to 16.\n\nAccording to Frontline, who looked at almost 200,000 cases of child marriage from 2000-2015:\n\n\nAccording to Unchained At Last, the youngest girls to marry in 2000-2010 were three Tennessee 10-year-old girls who married men aged 24, 25 and 31 in 2001. The youngest boy was an 11-year-old who married a 27-year-old woman in the same state in 2006.\n\nChild marriage researcher Nicholas Syrett was quoted in a Frontline article: \"“Almost all the evidence indicates that girls in cities don’t get married young, that girls from middle class or wealthy families, don’t get married young,” Syrett said. “This is a rural phenomenon and it is a phenomenon of poverty.”\"\n\nU.S.-born black girls are about 1.5 times more likely to marry underage than U.S-born white girls.\n\nYoung females are more likely to be married than young males. According to statistics released by the Pew Research Center (based upon the American Community Survey) 55% of those married at ages of 15–17 are female; According to a Frontline article, 87% of the minors who got married in 2000-2015 were girls.\n\nU.S.-born white children of U.S.-born parents, are more likely to marry underage than immigrants to the U.S. or the children of immigrants. This was true even in the 1920s at the height of immigration. This shows that child marriage is not a recent phenomenon, and it is not something that has only been introduced by recent immigrants.\n\nIn 2013, the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act mandated that the US Secretary of State must \"establish and implement a multi-year, multi-sectoral strategy to end child marriage\".\n\nIn 2018, girls' age of marriage was raised to 18, putting it in line with that of boys.\nIn September 2018, governor Lolo Moliga signed into law a bill changing the marriage age for girls from 14 to 18.\n\nIn 2003, Alabama raised the minimum age for marriage (ie: with exceptions) from 14 to 16. A similar bill had previously failed to pass in 2001.\n\nIn April 2018, Arizona passed a law which raised the minimum age to 16, and stipulated the following conditions: must be approved by a superior court, must have either parental consent or an emancipated minor, the older party must not be more than 3 years older than the younger party.\n\nIn California, in 2017, a bill to that would have ended child marriage (by raising the minimum age to 18) ran into opposition from legislators, the American Civil Liberties Union and Planned Parenthood.\n\nIn September 2018, a law was passed (effective 1 Jan 2019) which requires the parents and partners of minors wishing to marry, to meet with court official separately to determine if there is any coercion. Additionally, minors will now have to wait 30 days to get married, unless they are 17 and have completed high school, or one of the partners is pregnant. However, there is still no minimum age for children to marry, if these conditions are met.\n\nOn 1 October 2017, Connecticut passed a law raising the minimum marriage age to 16, as well as requiring both parental and judicial consent for minors to marry. Prior to this there was no minimum marriage age in Connecticut so long as a judge consented.\n\nIn May 2018, Delaware became the first state to completely ban child marriage. The marriage age in Delaware is now 18, with no exceptions. Prior to this, Delaware had no minimum age for marriage with parental consent and a judge's approval.\n\nIn early 2018, Florida passed and signed a law to amend its marriage laws, after having received intense media attention for its lax child marriage law and the high toleration of the practice. Since July 1, 2018, the minimum marriage age is 17, and 17-year-olds need both parental and judicial approval and may not marry anyone more than 2 years older. The new law was passed after sustained lobbying from a former victim of child marriage, Sherry Johnson.\n\nIn March 2018, Kentucky amended its marriage laws. After several failed attempts at restricting child marriage, a redrafted bill was introduced, passed all stages of the Kentucky Legislature, and was signed by the Governor of Kentucky in March 2018. The new law sets a minimum age of 17, with judicial approval.\n\nIn July 2018 Missouri raised the minimum age for marriage from 15 to 16.\n\nSince June 2018, the New Jersey child marriage ban bill was signed into law by the Governor of New Jersey Phil Murphy and went into effect immediately to implement a clear minimum age of 18 with no exceptions. This makes New Jersey the second state to completely ban child marriage, after Delaware.\n\nIn May 2017, a similar bill was vetoed by Governor Chris Christie due to \"religious concerns\".\n\n\nOn June 18th, 2018, New Hampshire passed a law (becomes effective in 2019), signed by Governor Chris Sununu, raising the minimum marriage age to 16 with judicial approval.\n\nIn 2017, New York state raised its marriage age to 18, allowing marriage at 17 in special circumstances with parental and court consent. Prior to this law, the state allowed marriage in certain cases from 14.\n\nIn Tennessee, until 2018, there was no minimum marriage age with judicial consent. In 2001, courts allowed three 10-year-old girls to marry. In 2006, an 11-year-old boy was allowed to marry. In March 2018, a proposed bill to end child marriage in Tennessee was killed. The bill was revived due to political pressure, passed, and signed into law in May 2018 by Governor Haslam, preventing anyone younger than 17 from marrying in Tennessee.\n\nIn 2017 Texas raised their marriage age to 18, though they kept an exception allowing emancipated minors aged 16-17 to marry.\n\nIn 2016, Virginia changed its law to set 18 as a minimum age, and 16 in special circumstances with judicial approval; prior to that date, there was no minimum age in the state. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "870767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870767", "title": "Company town", "text": "Company town\n\nA company town is a place where practically all stores and housing are owned by the one company that is also the main employer. Company towns are often planned with a suite of amenities such as stores, churches, schools, markets and recreation facilities. They are usually bigger than a model village (\"model\" in the sense of an ideal to be emulated).\n\nThe best examples of company towns have had high ideals; but many have been regarded as controlling or exploitative. Others developed more or less in unplanned fashion, such as Summit Hill, Pennsylvania, United States, one of the oldest, which began as a LC&N Co. mining camp and mine site nine miles (14.5 km) from the nearest outside road.\n\nTraditional settings for company towns were where extractive industries — coal, metal mines, lumber — had established a monopoly franchise. Dam sites and war-industry camps founded other company towns. Since company stores often had a monopoly in company towns, it was possible to pay in scrip through a truck system. In the Soviet Union there were several cities of nuclear scientists (\"atomics\") known as atomgrad; particularly in Ukraine those were Pripyat, Varash, Yuzhnoukrainsk among others.\n\nTypically, a company town is isolated from neighbors and centered on a large production factory, such as a lumber or steel mill or an automobile plant; and the citizens of the town either work in the factory, work in one of the smaller businesses, or is a family member of someone who does. The company may also donate a church building to a local congregation, operate parks, host cultural events such as concerts, and so on. If the owning company cuts back or goes out of business, the economic effect on the company town is devastating, as people move to jobs elsewhere.\n\nCompany towns often become regular public cities and towns as they grow and attract other settlement, business enterprises, and public transportation and services infrastructure. Other times, a town may not officially be a company town, but it may be a town where the majority of citizens are employed by a single company, thus creating a similar situation to a company town (especially in regard to the town's economy). Further, such dependencies extend to neighborhoods and regions of larger cities. In each case, if the primary company falls on lean times, fails outright or the industry fades in importance (as with steam locomotive support rail yards and anthracite mining industries which depended on steam locomotives spurring demands) the communities contract and lose property value and then population as people move to find work elsewhere, and the youth of the community bears the children of their generation in another demographic region.\n\nPaternalism, a subtle form of social engineering, refers to the control of workers by their employers who sought to force middle-class ideals upon their working-class employees. Paternalism was considered by many nineteenth-century businessmen as a moral responsibility, or often a religious obligation, which would advance society whilst furthering their own business interests. Accordingly, the company town offered a unique opportunity to achieve such ends.\n\nAlthough many prominent examples of company towns portray their founders as \"capitalists with a conscience\", for example, George Cadbury's Bournville, if viewed cynically, the company town was often an economically viable ploy to attract and retain workers. Additionally, for-profit shops within company towns were usually owned by the company, which were unavoidable to its isolated workers, thus resulting in a monopoly for the owners.\n\nAlthough economically successful, company towns sometimes failed politically due to a lack of elected officials and municipally owned services. Accordingly, workers often had no say in local affairs and therefore, felt dictated to. Ultimately, this political climate caused resentment amongst workers and resulted in many residents eventually losing long-term affection for their towns; such was the case at Pullman.\n\nAlthough many small company towns existed in mining areas of Pennsylvania before the Civil War, one of the largest, and most substantial early company towns in the United States was Pullman, developed in the 1880s just outside the Chicago city limits. The town, entirely company-owned, provided housing, markets, a library, churches and entertainment for the 6,000 company employees and an equal number of dependents. Employees were required to live in Pullman, although cheaper rentals could be found in nearby communities.\n\nThe town operated successfully until the economic panic of 1893, when demand for the company's products declined, and employee wages had to be lowered accordingly. Despite this, the company refused to lower rents in the town or the price of goods at its shops, thus resulting in the Pullman Strike of 1894. A national commission formed to investigate the causes of the strikes found that Pullman's paternalism was partly to blame and labelled it \"un-American\". The report condemned Pullman for refusing to negotiate and for the economic hardships he created for workers in the town of Pullman. \"The aesthetic features are admired by visitors, but have little money value to employees, especially when they lack bread.\" The State of Illinois filed suit, and in 1898 the Supreme Court of Illinois forced the Pullman Company to divest ownership in the town, which was annexed to Chicago.\n\nHowever, government observers maintained that Pullman's principles were accurate, in that he provided his employees with a quality of life otherwise unattainable to them, but recognised that his excessive paternalism was inappropriate for a large-scale corporate economy and thus caused the town's downfall. Accordingly, government observers and social reformers alike saw the need for a balance between control and well-designed towns, concluding that a model company town would only succeed if independent professionals, acting as a buffer between employers and employees, took a role in conception, planning, and management of these towns.\n\nHistorian Linda Carlson argues that the managers of corporate towns in the early 20th century believed they could avoid the mistakes made by George Pullman in the 1880s. She says they:\n\nThus, the Pullman Strike did not kill the concept of a company town but rather initiated a new chapter in their existence. Over the next thirty years, the old model of paternalism was abandoned in favour of new professionally designed company towns with architects, landscape architects, and planners translating \"new concepts of industrial relations and social welfare into new physical forms\". This suited capitalists of the day who were obviously keen to avoid the experiences of Pullman. The first real example of this occurred at Indian Hill-North Village, Massachusetts, in 1915.\n\nBy the 1920s, the need for company towns had declined significantly due to increased national affluence. Despite income inequalities and a relatively low standard of living conditions amongst factory laborers, the prosperity of the 1920s saw workers’ material well-being improve significantly. A strong post-war American economy meant installment buying was accessible to low-wage earners who could now purchase previously unattainable goods like automobiles and radios. Moreover, workers were no longer dependent on employers for healthcare and education.\n\nBy the 1920s the widespread nature of the automobile meant workers no longer needed to live near their work places and now had access to more employment opportunities. A combination of the freedom that came with private transport and the mass communication of radio saw the isolation of company towns lessen and the social basis of the company town become less necessary.\n\nFurthermore, the accessibility of the working class to private transport also marked a step of equality as they had previously only been accessible to the wealthy. As access to surrounding municipalities increased, residents of company towns gained access to an increasing amount of government-funded public resources such as schools, libraries, and parks. Accordingly, there was no longer a need for the amenities of company towns which, prior to welfare capitalism, had previously been unattainable to the working class.\n\nThis new found freedom saw a change in the mindset of workers who began to look on welfare capitalism as demeaning rather than an incentive. Accordingly, many employees began to request additional pay in lieu of welfare programs. This was well received by some employers as the idea of ‘laissez-faire’ individualism, which promoted entrepreneurial virtues of hard-work being rewarded rather than direct charity, began to shape new-age paternalism.\n\nModernization and the increase in material well-being had also lessened the perceived need for paternalism and moral reform. Consequently, the economic downturn of the early 1930s saw some businesses do away with employee welfare schemes to reduce costs. However, the Roosevelt Administration’s New Deal dealt the final blow to end American company towns by raising minimum wages, encouraging industrial self-governance, and pushing for the owners of company towns to “consider the question of plans for eventual employee ownership of homes”. To a lesser extent the New Deal also reduced the need for employee housing by transforming housing finance to a lower-interest, lower-deposit system making home ownership more accessible to the working class.\n\nDuring the late nineteenth century, model company towns materialised, as enlightened industrialists recognised that many poor workers were living in appalling conditions. These industrialists wished to combat the unsanitary and congested conditions common to working class districts in order to create better living conditions for workers. Model company towns such as Port Sunlight (1888) and Bournville (1895) were influential in regards to their building and planning innovation. The ideas generated from these model towns are regarded as having a significant influence on the Garden City movement.\n\nThe model company town is concerned with creating a productive and prosperous company. Enlightened industrialists believed this could be achieved by providing a healthier residential environment for their employees. Planning a model company town involved the fusion of new notions of house design and layout. The paternalism of the enlightened industrialist was exhibited in his desire to provide an environment for his employees that was aesthetically appealing and which included well-designed residences, parks, schools, libraries and meeting halls. The industrialist also wished to contribute to his workers' well-being by providing social programs such as sporting events and functions. This, however, highlights the power and immense control possessed by the company owner, who could shape the lifestyle and activities of his employees to serve his own interests and those of the company.\n\nModel villages for agricultural workers were founded in the early 19th century in the United Kingdom. The creation of model company towns was particularly evident in Britain during the latter half of the nineteenth century with the creation of Saltaire (1851), Bournville, Port Sunlight, Creswell and New Earswick (1901) and coincided with the housing-reform movement, which emphasized the improvement of housing for the working class. These model towns contrasted with the overcrowded conditions in British working-class districts, which were often characterized by congested housing, unsanitary conditions, and poor provision of open space and facilities. Model company towns promoted the idea of orderly, planned town development as well as the notion of planning for the needs of the community in order to provide healthier living conditions.\n\nModel company towns around the mid-nineteenth century, such as Copley (1849), near Halifax, and Saltaire (1853), close to Bradford, were differentiated by improved dwellings for workers which contrasted with working-class housing in other industrial villages and cities. These model company towns prompted the creation of others, such as Port Sunlight, Bournville and Creswell, within an environment of reform.\n\nPort Sunlight (1888) in Cheshire was established by William Hesketh Lever (later Lord Leverhulme) of Lever Brothers – a soap and tallow manufacturer. The earlier layout of this model company town was planned to suit the undulating topography of the site. Port Sunlight catered for the Lever Brothers employees through the provision of improved housing (cottages of varying designs and materials) and gardens, as well as social and community facilities, including an auditorium, a school, tennis courts and bowling greens. Port Sunlight combined the use of formal and informal planning elements, such as straight streets close to the town centre and curved streets in the residential areas. This combination of the formal and informal represented a new feature of British town planning.\n\nBournville (1895), near Birmingham, was established by the Cadbury brothers, George and Richard. George and Richard Cadbury chose to transfer the Cadbury factory to this new site in order to provide their employees with improved living conditions and a country environment that they could enjoy – a far cry from the busy, smoky city centre of Birmingham. The firm provided education in the form of a compulsory academic course, and workers were given the opportunity to complete commercial or technical training. The Cadburys also encouraged their workers to get involved in the social life of Bournville through the provision of sports facilities and athletic and cultural clubs, as well as social events such as summer parties. George Cadbury, a Quaker, preached Christian values, such as respectability, thrift and sobriety, and sought to unify the Bournville community through rituals such as gift giving between employer and employee. The firm also established work councils, such as the Women's Works Council, and supported trades unions.\n\nBournville represented the union of industry and nature as the company town boasted the attractiveness of the countryside and low-density development defined by well-built and visually appealing dwellings. Unlike Port Sunlight, Bournville catered for a mixed community, where residences were not restricted to the workforce only. Bournville illustrated how, towards the end of the nineteenth century, low-density development was being punctuated along with the provision of open air, space and sunlight. Bournville's gardens, parks, tree-lined streets, sense of spaciousness and country setting enhanced its aesthetic appeal and demonstrated George Cadbury's endeavour to provide workers with a healthy, beautiful and well-ventilated environment.\n\nThe Bolsover Company developed two exemplary mining communities in Derbyshire during the late nineteenth century, Bolsover (1891) and Creswell (1896). The Bolsover Company aimed to provide improved living conditions for the miners and their families in these model industrial villages. The houses at Creswell were built in concentric circles, and within these circles was a large open parkland and a bandstand. Not only did the Bolsover Company aim to provide better housing, but they also wished to improve workers' moral fibre, believing that the provision of facilities and the promotion of workers' welfare would discourage drunkenness, gambling and bad language. The Bolsover Company provided facilities deemed beneficial for employees at both villages including clubhouses, bowling greens, cooperative society stores, cricket pitches and schools. During the early years of these model industrial villages, the Bolsover Company organized various events intended to enhance community life, such as flower shows, lectures, sporting events, concerts, teas and dances.\n\nCatalonia, a region located in North-Eastern Spain, has a high density of company towns, known locally as industrial colonies. They are especially concentrated in river basins along the Ter and Llobregat. In Berguedà, for example, within 20 km there are 14 colonies. The total number in Catalonia is around a hundred. These were small towns created around a factory, built in a rural area and, therefore, separate from any other population. They housed between 100 and 500 inhabitants, and in some cases around 1000 people.\n\nThese industrial colonies were a typical aspect of industrialization in Catalonia, specifically the second industrialization, which resulted in certain areas that were once purely rural becoming industrial. They were first created in the second half of the nineteenth century, especially from the 1870s onwards. The last colonies were created in the early years of the twentieth century. Thus, company towns in Catalonia have a history going back some 150 years, although in almost all cases the company that operated the colony has now shut down. The most common industry in these colonies was textiles. There are more than 75 textile colonies recorded; although there were also mining, metallurgy and agricultural colonies.\n\nMostly these colonies (particularly the textile related ones) were constructed close to a river. This was because they used hydraulic power (waterwheels) to run the factory. One reason for this was that Catalonia was poor in coal and importing it was expensive. In addition, the Catalan rivers (with little volume but a very steep sloping run) provided free and almost inexhaustible energy, that was lacking only in times of drought.\n\nThe industrial colonies system began to collapse in the 1960s. The colonies gradually emptied of people even before the definitive industrial crisis, which worsened in 1978. In the 1980s and 1990s almost all the factories in these industrial colonies closed. From that moment on, many colonies became towns that were now independent of the company, others were abandoned and remain without inhabitants. Other factories were leased to smaller industries or now lie empty.\n\nSome of the more interesting colonies include: Colònia Güell, in Santa Coloma de Cervelló, which contains several modernist buildings, such as the crypt church built by Antoni Gaudí; L'Ametlla de Merola, Puig-reig, where centenary traditional cultural activities are held, such as the representation of Els Pastorets; the three colonies of Castellbell i el Vilar: La Bauma, El Borràs, El Burés, with buildings of architectural interest; Cal Rosal, between Berga, Avià and Olvan, which, in 1858, was the first colony in the era of building large colonies in the Llobregat; Cal Vidal, Puig-reig, which houses the Museum of the Vidal Colony, an ideal visit for anyone wishing to learn what life was like in one of these industrial experiments.\n\nFordlândia was established by American industrialist Henry Ford in 1928 as a prefabricated industrial town in the Amazon rainforest of Brazil. Intended to be inhabited by 10 thousand people, it failed; and the city was abandoned in 1934.\n\nArvida, Quebec was developed in 1927 as a company town, to have a population of about 14,000 inhabitants, four Catholic parishes, and many other denominations, parishes and schools. It was known as \"the City Built in 135 Days\".\nBatawa was set up by the Bata Shoe Company as a planned community around a shoe factory. The factory opened in 1939 and closed in 2000.\nKuusankoski in Finland, formerly also known as \"the paper capital of Finland\", is a prime example of the decline many company towns have had to deal with when the company itself struggles. The town relied on three paper mills owned by Kymmene Corporation from the 1870s until 2005 when two mills, Voikkaa and Kuusaa, were shut down, leaving only the Kymi mill operating. An estimated 5% of the local population had been employed by the two closed mills and Kymmene's decision left the town in socioeconomic chaos. Kuusankoski's independent status ended in 2009 when the town was consolidated into the regional capital, Kouvola.\n\nThe French city of Le Creusot is a company town.\n\nThe German cities of Ludwigshafen, Wolfsburg and Leverkusen are company towns.\n\nThe Japanese city of Kitakyushu is a company town.\n\nThe border town Oranjemund, Namibia is a company town owned by Namibian DeBeers (Namdeb). The town has a diamond mine that was established over 25 years ago and is still ongoing till this day. Residents of Oranjemund either work in the mine or for the company in offices based in the town. To enter the town, all people above 18 need permission to pass its gates and need to provide a residential, and reason for visiting. Due to this the town has no homeless people at all and can regulate people coming in and out of the town. A municipality has recently been introduced in Oranjemund and will start to fully operate in late 2016 meaning residents will soon start paying for Water and Electricity which has been a benefit to them. The town is staged and is busy readying itself to becoming open to the public.\n\nWidzew, a suburb of Łódź in Poland, had been a textile company town before the Second World War.\n\nSvit in Slovakia was founded in 1934 by business industrialist Jan Antonín Baťa in accordance with his policy of establishing well-organized model communities for his workers and other employees. This town (like other Baťa´s company towns) was also an example of social engineering.\n\nThe mining city of Kiruna in Sweden was originally, around 1900, built by the mining company in an unpopulated area. Everything, including the church, was built by the company.\n\nThe city of Pripyat in Ukraine was established in 1970 solely to house the workers at the adjacent Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and their families. It was one of several \"nuclear cities\" constructed by Soviet nuclear power firms throughout the latter half of the 20th century. All amenities, stores, and employment was conducted through each nuclear city's power plant administration.\n\nAt their peak there were more than 2,500 company towns, housing 3% of the US population. The companies that ran the towns were primarily labor companies such as coal, steel, lumber and various war industries. Most of the people living in these towns were immigrants new to the country. This could cause issues among the populace since the manager of the town would be in charge of establishing the town's religion.\n\nSegundo, Colorado, was a company town where the CF&I coal company housed its workers. It offered adequate housing and promoted upward mobility through its sponsorship of a YMCA Center, an elementary school, and some small businesses, as well as a company store. However, air pollution was a constant health threat, also the houses lacked indoor plumbing. As demand for metallurgical coke declined, the mine laid off workers, and Segundo's population declined. After a major fire in 1929, CF&I left town, and Segundo became practically a ghost town.\n\nOne famous company town was McDonald, Ohio, which was created by the Carnegie Steel Company to house and serve the needs of its employees in the Youngstown, Ohio, area.\n\nMarktown, Clayton Mark's planned worker community, was an example in northwest Indiana.\n\nIn the present-day United States, it is relatively rare for any place in which a single company owns all the property to be granted status as an incorporated municipality. Rather, companies will normally prefer their wholly owned communities to remain unincorporated, as this permits administration of the community to be carried out by appointed company officers rather than elected officials. However, there are incorporated municipalities that are heavily dependent upon a single industry or organization and may be loosely considered a \"company town\", even though the company does not technically own the town.\n\nScotia, California is a company town, previously owned by The Pacific Lumber Company, and is being dismantled through PLC's bankruptcy process. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26563022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26563022", "title": "Creative Problem Solving Institute", "text": "Creative Problem Solving Institute\n\nThe Creative Problem Solving Institute (CPSI) is an annual creativity conference, sponsored by the Creative Education Foundation. CPSI is the oldest and longest-running creativity conference in the world. It was the brain child of Alex Osborn, the inventor of brainstorming and Creative Problem Solving, the founder of Creative Education Foundation, and more commonly known as the co-founder of advertising firm BBDO. The first conference was held in 1954 in Buffalo, New York, the city that continues to host CPSI.\n\nThe conference positions itself as \"The HOW TO Create, Innovate and Lead Change conference\".\n"}
{"id": "16655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16655", "title": "Demographics of Kenya", "text": "Demographics of Kenya\n\nThe demography of Kenya is monitored by the Kenyan National Bureau of Statistics. Kenya is a multi-ethnic state in the Great Lakes region of East Africa. It is inhabited primarily by Bantu and Nilotic populations, with some Cushitic-speaking ethnic minorities in the north. Its total population was estimated at 47 million as of 2017.\n\nA national census was conducted in 1999, although the results were never released. A new census was undertaken in 2009, but turned out to be controversial, as the questions about ethnic affiliation seemed inappropriate after the ethnic violence of the previous year. Preliminary results of the census were published in 2010. \n\nKenya's population was reported as 38.6 million during the 2009 census compared to 28.7 million inhabitants in 1999, 21.4 million in 1989, and 15.3 million in 1979. This was an increase of 2.5 percent over 30 years, or an average growth rate of more than 3 percent per year. The population growth rate has been reported as reduced during the 2000s, and was estimated at 2.7 percent (as of 2010), resulting in an estimate of 46.5 million in 2016.\n\nKenya has a very diverse population that includes most major ethnic, racial and linguistic groups found in Africa. Bantu and Nilotic populations together constitute around 97% of the nation's inhabitants.\n\nKenya's largest ethnic group is the Kikuyu. They make up less than a fifth of the population. Since Kenyan independence in 1963, Kenyan politics have been characterized by ethnic tensions and rivalry between the larger groups. This devolved into ethnic violence in the 2007–2008 Kenyan crisis.\n\nIn Kenya's last colonial census of 1962, population groups residing in the territory included European, African and Asian individuals. According to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, Kenya had a population of 38,610,097 by 2009. The largest native ethnic groups were the Kikuyu (6,622,576), Luhya (5,338,666), Kalenjin (4,967,328), Luo (4,044,440), Kamba (3,893,157), Kisii people (2,205,669), Mijikenda (1,960,574), Meru (1,658,108), Turkana (988,592), and Maasai (841,622). Foreign-rooted populations included Somalis (2,385,572), Asians (81,791), Europeans (67,000), and Kenyan Arabs (40,760).\n\nArabs form a small but historically important minority ethnic group in Kenya. They are principally concentrated along the coast in cities such as Mombasa. A Muslim community, they primarily came from Oman and Hadhramaut in Yemen, and are engaged in trade. Arabs are locally referred to as \"Washihiri\" or, less commonly, as simply \"Shihiri\" in the Bantu Swahili language, Kenya's lingua franca. According to the 2009 Census, Kenyan Arabs number 40,760 people.\n\nKenyan Asians are descended from South Asian migrants. Significant Asian migration to Kenya began between 1896 and 1901 when some 32,000 indentured labourers were recruited from British India to build the Kenya-Uganda Railway. The majority of Kenyan Asians hail from the Gujarat and Punjab regions.The community grew significantly during the colonial period, and in the 1962 census Asians made up a third of the population of Nairobi and consisted of 176,613 people across the country. \n\nSince Kenyan independence large numbers have emigrated due to race-related tensions with the Bantu and Nilotic majority. Those that remain are principally concentrated in the business sector, and Asians continue to form one of the more prosperous communities in the region. According to the 2009 Census, Kenyan Asians number 46,782 people, while Asians without Kenyan citizenship number 35,009 individuals. In 2017, they were officially recognised at the 44th tribe of Kenya.\n\nBantus are the single largest population division in Kenya. The term \"Bantu\" denotes widely dispersed but related peoples that speak south-central Niger–Congo languages. Originally from West-Central Africa, Bantus began a millennium-long series of migrations referred to as the Bantu expansion that first brought them to southeast Africa about 2,000 years ago.\n\nMost Bantu are farmers. Some of the prominent Bantu groups in Kenya include the Kikuyu, the Kamba, the Luhya, the Kisii, the Meru, and the Mijikenda. The Swahili people are descended from Mijikenda Bantu peoples that intermarried with Arab and Persian immigrants.\n\nCushitic peoples form a small minority of Kenya's population. They speak languages belonging to the Afroasiatic family and originally came from Ethiopia and Somalia in northeastern Africa. Most are herdsmen and Muslim. Cushites are concentrated in the northernmost North Eastern Province, which borders Somalia.\n\nThe Cushitic peoples are divided into two groups: the Southern Cushites and the Eastern Cushites.\n\n\nEuropeans in Kenya are primarily the descendants of British migrants during the colonial period. Many are of aristocratic descent and still continue to wield significant influence, especially over Kenya's political elite. Since the Independence of Kenya, Britons and other Europeans in Kenya also continue to dominate the local business community. According to the 2009 Census, Kenyan Europeans number 35,000 people, while Europeans without Kenyan citizenship number 32,000 individuals.\n\nNilotes are the second-largest group of peoples in Kenya. They speak Nilo-Saharan languages and came to Southeast Africa by way of South Sudan. Most Nilotes in Kenya are herdsmen, and they have a fearsome reputation as warriors and cattle-rustlers. The most prominent of these groups include the Luo, the Maasai, the Samburu, the Turkana, and the Kalenjin. As with the Bantu, some of the Nilotes have adopted many customs and practices from the Cushitic groups, including the age set system of social organization, circumcision, and vocabulary terms.\n\nKenya's various ethnic groups typically speak their mother tongues within their own communities.The two official languages, English and Swahili, serve as the main lingua franca between the various ethnic groups. English is widely spoken in commerce, schooling and government. Peri-urban and rural dwellers are less multilingual, with many in rural areas speaking only their native languages.\n\nAccording to \"Ethnologue\", there are a total of 69 languages spoken in Kenya. Most belong to two broad language families: Niger-Congo (Bantu branch) and Nilo-Saharan (Nilotic branch), which are spoken by the country's Bantu and Nilotic populations, respectively. The Cushitic and Arab ethnic minorities speak languages belonging to the separate Afro-Asiatic family, with the Indian and European residents speaking languages from the Indo-European family.\n\nAccording to , the total population was in compared to 6,077,000 in 1950, and around 1,700,000 in 1900. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2010 was 42.5%, 54.9% between the ages of 15 and 65, and 2.7% was 65 years or older. Worldometers estimates the total population at 48,466,928 inhabitants, a 29 global rank.\n\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nFertility data as of 2014 (DHS Program):\n\nNumbers are in thousands. UN medium variant projections\n\nRegistration of vital events is in Kenya not complete. The Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nBirths and deaths \nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\nTotal population is reported as 47.6 million as of July 2017.\n\nAs of 2015, 25.6% of the population was urban.\n\nLike the demographics of Africa in general, Kenya is plagued by high infant mortality, low life expectancy, malnourishment (32%of population) and HIV/AIDS.\nWhile these concerns remain grave, a trend towards improvement is reported in the period of 2006 to 2010: Infant mortality was at estimated at 59.26 deaths/1,000 live births as of 2006, decreasing to 54.7 deaths/1,000 live births as of 2010.\nLife expectancy was estimated at 48.9 years as of 2006, and has risen to 64 years in 2012.\n\nAccording to 2008–09 Kenyan government survey, total fertility was 4.6, contraception usage among married women was 46 percent.\nTotal fertility rate has decreased 4.91 children per woman (2006 estimate), to 4.38 (2010 estimate).\nLiteracy (age 7 and over) was estimated at 85.1% in 2003 (male: 90.6%, female: 79.7%).\n\nCIA World Factbook estimate:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "524762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=524762", "title": "European cuisine", "text": "European cuisine\n\nEuropean cuisine, or alternatively Western cuisine, is a generalised term collectively referring to the cuisines of Europe and other Western countries, including (depending on the definition) that of Russia, as well as non-indigenous cuisines of Australasia, the Americas, Southern Africa, and Oceania, which derive substantial influence from European settlers in those regions. The term is used by East Asians to contrast with Asian styles of cooking. (This is analogous to Westerners' referring collectively to the cuisines of East Asian countries as Asian cuisine.) When used by Westerners, the term may sometimes refer more specifically to cuisine \"in\" Europe; in this context, a synonym is Continental cuisine, especially in British English.\n\nThe cuisines of Western countries are diverse by themselves, although there are common characteristics that distinguish Western cooking from cuisines of Asian countries and others. Compared with traditional cooking of Asian countries, for example, meat is more prominent and substantial in serving-size. Steak and cutlet in particular are common dishes across the West. Western cuisines also put substantial emphasis on grape wine and on sauces as condiments, seasonings, or accompaniments (in part due to the difficulty of seasonings penetrating the often larger pieces of meat used in Western cooking). Many dairy products are utilised in the cooking process, except in nouvelle cuisine. Cheeses are produced in hundreds of different varieties, and fermented milk products are also available in a wide selection. Wheat-flour bread has long been the most common source of starch in this cuisine, along with pasta, dumplings and pastries, although the potato has become a major starch plant in the diet of Europeans and their diaspora since the European colonisation of the Americas, particularly in Northern Europe. Maize is much less common in most European diets than it is in the Americas; however corn meal (polenta or mămăligă), is a major part of the cuisine of Italy and the Balkans. Although flatbreads (especially with toppings such as pizza or tarte flambée), and rice are eaten in Europe, they do not constitute an ever-present staple. Salads (cold dishes with uncooked or cooked vegetables with sauce) are an integral part of European cuisine.\n\nFormal European dinners are served in distinct courses. European presentation evolved from service à la française, or bringing multiple dishes to the table at once, into service à la russe, where dishes are presented sequentially. Usually, cold, hot and savoury, and sweet dishes are served strictly separately in this order, as hors d'oeuvre (appetizer) or soup, as entrée and main course, and as dessert. Dishes that are both sweet and savoury were common earlier in ancient Roman cuisine, but are today uncommon, with sweet dishes being served only as dessert. A service where the guests are free to take food by themselves is termed a buffet, and is usually restricted to parties or holidays. Nevertheless, guests are expected to follow the same pattern.\n\nHistorically, European cuisine has been developed in the European royal and noble courts. European nobility was usually arms-bearing and lived in separate manors in the countryside. The knife was the primary eating implement (cutlery), and eating steaks and other foods that require cutting followed. In contrast in the Sinosphere, the ruling class were the court officials, who had their food cut ready to eat in the kitchen, to be eaten with chopsticks. The knife was supplanted by the spoon for soups, while the fork was introduced later in the early modern period, ca. 16th century. Today, most dishes are intended to be eaten with cutlery and only a few finger foods can be eaten with the hands in polite company.\n\nAll of these countries have their specialities. Austria is famous for their Wiener Schnitzel - a breaded veal cutlet served with a slice of lemon, the Czech Republic for their world renowned beers. Germany for their world-famous wursts, Hungary for their goulash. Slovakia is famous for their gnocchi-like Halusky pasta. Slovenia for their German and Italian influenced cuisine, Poland for their world-famous Pierogis which are a cross between a Ravioli and an Empanada. Liechtenstein and German speaking Switzerland are famous for their Rösti and French speaking Switzerland for their Raclettes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5391315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5391315", "title": "Florence Ada Keynes", "text": "Florence Ada Keynes\n\nFlorence Ada Keynes (née Brown; 10 March 1861 – 13 February 1958) was a British author, historian and politician.\n\nSister of Walter Langdon-Brown, Keynes was an early graduate of Newnham College, Cambridge. She established an early juvenile labour exchange, and was one of the founders of the Papworth Village Settlement for sufferers of tuberculosis, a forerunner of Papworth Hospital. She was secretary of the local Charity Organisation Society, which provided pensions for the elderly living in poverty, and worked with inmates of workhouses to resettle them into society.\n\nShe was the first female councillor of Cambridge City Council in August 1914, and was also a town magistrate. At 70 years of age, Keynes became Mayor of Cambridge on 09 November 1932. She chaired the committee responsible for the building of the new Guildhall, completed in 1939.\n\nRetiring from public duties in 1939, she wrote a history of Cambridge, \"By-Ways of Cambridge History\" (Cambridge University Press, 1947). In 1950 she published a memoir, \"Gathering up the threads\" (W Heffer & Son Ltd, 1950), in which she discusses her ancestors along with the childhoods of her children John Maynard, Margaret and Geoffrey.\n\nKeynes was the daughter of the Rev. John Brown of Bunyan's Chapel, Bedford. Her brother was the Regius Professor of Physic (medicine) Sir Walter Langdon-Brown.\n\nShe married the economist John Neville Keynes in 1882. They had two sons and a daughter:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39230995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39230995", "title": "Gorontaloan people", "text": "Gorontaloan people\n\nGorontaloan or Hulandalo people are the native people of the northern part of Sulawesi. They are the most populous ethnicity in the Minahasa Peninsula. The Gorontaloans are predominantly Muslim. Their native language is Gorontaloan. The Gorontaloans have traditionally been concentrated in the provinces of Gorontalo, North Sulawesi, and the northern part of Central Sulawesi.\n\nThe name Gorontalo probably derives from much terms, such as:\n\n\nGorontaloans sometime refer themselves as \"Hulandalo\" or \"Hulantalo\", a well-known term in Gorontalo and North Sulawesi, which usually refer to the region of Gorontalo or the native people from Gorontalo.\n\nThe Gorontaloan people also have a family kinship system called \"Pohala'a\". This system is a heritage of the kingdoms that had previously established in Gorontalo. There are five \"pohala'a\" in Gorontalo, namely Gorontalo, Limboto, Suwawa, Bualemo and Atinggola; where the Gorontalo \"pohala'a\" is the most prominent among the \"pohala'a\"s.\n\nThe origins of the Gorontaloan people is uncertain. Based on the physical attributes of the Gorontaloan people, the Gorontaloan people are categorized as part of the Mongoloid race, with the possibility of mixing with other ethnic groups several centuries ago. As a result the Gorontaloan people currently has diverse physical postures, and different shades of skin color from yellow to dark brown. Variety of hair types also exist among them from straight to wavy and curly hair. There are two Southeast Asian migration theories, with the first theory states that the population of Southeast Asian originally came from the east, and then inhabited in Sulawesi. While the second theory explains that the human migration began from Taiwan and arrived in Sulawesi through the Philippines. Linguistically, Gorontaloan people share the same origins with other Austronesian people of the Philippine Islands and North Sulawesi islands.\n\nThere is a Gorontaloan legend that tells a story that they are the descendants of \"Hulontalangi\", or the people that came from the skies and reside on Mount Tilongkabila, Bone Bolango Regency. The name Hulontalangi then became Hulontalo and Gorontalo.\n\nAccording to legend, the first Gorontaloan kingdom emerged at the beginning of the 2nd millennium BC. Gorontalo is believed to have inhabited by humans since prehistoric times. The Oluhuta site in Bone Bolango Regency is an archaeology site which provides information about the tombs of previous communities that were estimated to have lived around 2000–4000 years ago.\n\nThe establishment of the Gorontalo region have been estimated to formed 400 years ago. Gorontalo is one of the places that are recognized for the spreading of Islam in East Indonesia besides Ternate and Bone state. By 1525, when the Portuguese arrived at North Sulawesi, Islam had already been widely spread among them during the rule of King Amay; with the Gorontaloan lands divided between the Muslim states of Gorontalo, Limboto, Suwawa, Boalemo and Atinggola. Gorontalo then developed to become the center of education and trade in North Sulawesi. The city of the Gorontalo Kingdom first began in Hulawa village beside the Bolango River. Before the arrival of the Europeans, the kingdoms in Gorontalo have already adhered to a family bonding system called \"pohala'a\", which is still found today.\n\nPrior to the arrival of the Europeans, the Gorontalo kingdoms were under the influence of the Ternate Sultanate. Gorontalo came under the administrative region of the Dutch East India Company with the formation of Gorontalo Regency as a result of a treaty between Governor Ternate Robertus Patbrugge and the Gorontalo king.\n\nDuring the Dutch East Indies period, Gorontaloan people began to emigrate out of Gorontalo region in the 18th century; to other regions such as Ternate, Ambon Island, Buol Island, Banggai Island and Minahasa Regency, in order to avoid the forced labor system that was enforced by the Dutch East Indies government in Gorontalo at that time.\n\nThere were military-political alliance, which by the end of the 19th century they were fully colonized by the Dutch East Indies. In 1950 Gorontalo as a part of State of East Indonesia rejoined Indonesia.\n\nBefore Gorontalo became a province of its own, the Gorontalo region was part of the North Sulawesi Province with a regency status. However on 5 December 2000, in accordance to Article 38 Year 2000, Gorontalo Regency became a separate province with the name Gorontalo Province. The Ministry of Home Affairs at that time, Soerjadi Soedirdja officiate the Gorontalo Province and appointed Tursandi Alwi as the governor. A year later, Fadel Muhammad was elected as the first governor of Gorontalo Province.\n\nGorontalo language is a member of the Austronesian languages. Apart from Gorontalo language, there are several languages that are similar which are considered by linguists as Gorontaloan dialects include Suwawa language, Atinggola language, Limboto language, Kwandang language, Tilamuta language and Sumawata language. Gorontalo language is widely used due to the influence of the Gorontalo Kingdom that was once established in the region. Atinggola language is used by the Atinggola community situated on the northern coast of Gorontalo.\n\nToday, Gorontalo language itself have gone through assimilation with Manado Malay, which is also widely spoken by Gorontaloan people. In terms of linguistic, Gorontalo language are related to languages from North Sulawesi and the Philippines. Gorontalo language along with Mongondow language are part of the Gorontalo–Mongondow languages, which is part of the Philippine languages. The Philippine languages that are linguistically close to the Gorontalo language are such as Tagalog language, Cebu language, Hiligaynon language, Bikol language and Waray-waray language.\nIn present times, Gorontaloans used Latin alphabet for writing. However, the usage of Gorontaloan is limited to everyday living. In schools for education, the media, and official documents, the Indonesian language used as the national language.\n\nMost of Gorontaloan people are loyal adherents of the Islamic faith. There are numerous traditional customs of the Gorontaloan people that contained Islamic influences. Only a small minority of Gorontaloan people that practices other religion apart from Islam such as Protestantism Christianity and Catholicism Christianity.\n\nCustoms are regarded as an honor, norms and even as a guideline to implementing governance for the Gorontaloan community. This is attributed to the expression of \"\"Adat Bersendi Sara\" and \"Sara Bersendi Kitabullah\"\". The meaning of these sayings is that customs (\"adat\") are implemented based on rules (\"sara\"), while these rules must be based on the Islamic holy book, the Quran. Therefore it is understood that the lives of the Gorontaloan people are full of religious values and noble values.\n\nDuring the end of Ramadan, the people conducted \"Tombbilotohe\"; a cultural celebration with oil lamps, which is lit around mosques and settlements.\n\nThe Gorontaloan community have a high social sense, so much so that there is hardly any conflict among themselves. A tight knitted kinship system is always preserved by the Gorontaloan community, as exemplified in the \"Pohala'a\" family bond system. Mutual cooperation or \"huyula\" tradition is preserved in the daily lives of the community, and every issues will be solved through discussion.\n\nGorontaloan people have a philosophy of life, namely, \"batanga pomaya, nyawa podungalo, harata potom bulu\" meaning, \"the body is to defend the homeland, faithful to the end, wealth brings social problems\" and \"lo iya lo ta uwa, ta uwa loloiya, boodila polucia hi lawo\" which means, \"a leader is full of authority, but it's not arbitrary\".\n\nTraditional attires are multicolored, with each of the colors represent its symbolic aspect. Gorontaloan people are also famous for their developed musical culture.\n\nThe main traditional occupation of the Gorontaloan people has long been agriculture. Gorontaloans plays an important part in forestry, agriculture and fishery industries. Crafting and livestock farms are secondary means of income.\n\nIn the past, there were large extensions of extended family who could carry out joint agricultural farming in mountainous region that requires a lot of soil cultivating work. The elderly father and mother are regarded as the main hosts, which is reflected in the Gorontalo language. It has not adopted a variety of intimate forms of addressing to parents and older relatives.\n\nThe main type of Gorontaloan settlement are the villages. The traditional house is called Dulohupa, consists of a frame structure built on stilts. It is built with choice timber and its roofing is made of straws. The house is then divided into several rooms. By the entrance are two staircases. In the past, Dulohupa is usually used to carry out discussions by the royal rulers. Traditional Dulohupa house can still be found in several sub-districts in Gorontalo.\n\nApart from Dulohupa, there is another traditional Gorontalo house called, Bandayo Poboide. However the existence of the Bandayo Poboide is almost extinct throughout the entire region of Gorontalo. One of the very few remaining Bandayo Poboide is situated in front of the Gorontalo Regent's office at Jenderal Sudirman Road, Limboto, Gorontalo.\n\nLumadu is a type of native Gorontalo oral literature in the form of brain exercising riddles and metaphors or parables. Lumadu if often used by children for games, while metaphoric Lumadu is often used in conversations among adults with the purpose to show courtesy for others, to broaden the conversation with others and to bring value into the subject of the conversation.\n\nOne of the cultural art form of the Gorontaloan people is the Polopalo dance. This traditional dance is popular among the Gorontaloan community, and even as far as North Sulawesi region.\n\nThere are several traditional customs from the Gorontaloan community, among them:-\n"}
{"id": "22676219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22676219", "title": "Green Up Day", "text": "Green Up Day\n\nGreen Up Day, observed on the first Saturday of May, is a statewide effort in the US state of Vermont to clean up roadside trash. \n\nThe first Green Up Day was April 18, 1970 and was started by Governor Deane C. Davis. In 1979, Green Up Vermont became a non-profit organization. A small portion of the funding for the event comes from a state appropriation, with Green Up Vermont making up the remainder through individual donations and corporate sponsors. Vermont is the only state without an Adopt-A-Highway program and instead continues the grassroots tradition of Green Up Day, in which people of all ages can take part. The State of Vermont cleans up the State Highways, and Green Up Day volunteers clean up all the town roads.\n\nGreen trash bags are distributed throughout the state which are then used by volunteers to clean up the roads in their area. Citizens can pick up bags at the local town hall or other community location. The volunteers are often asked to pick a location that they will be responsible for which is often the road on which they live. The bags are often left on the road side for pick up by town road crews or volunteers will be asked to bring bags to a specific location. All towns have a coordinator who can be contacted with questions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35465631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35465631", "title": "Haitian Cuban", "text": "Haitian Cuban\n\nHaitian Cubans (; ; ) are Cuban citizens of full or partial Haitian ancestry.\n\nHaitian culture and French and Haitian Creole languages, first entered Cuba with the arrival of Haitian immigrants at the start of the 19th century. Haiti was a French colony, and the final years of the 1791-1804 Haitian Revolution brought a wave of French settlers fleeing with their Haitian slaves to Cuba. They came mainly to the east, and especially Guantanamo, where the French later introduced sugar cultivation, constructed sugar refineries and developed coffee plantations. \n\nBy 1804, some 30,000 French were living in Baracoa and Maisí, the furthest eastern municipalities of the province.\n\nDue to the United States occupation of Haiti, many Haitians left to find work as laborers in neighboring countries like Cuba. These immigrants lived a fine line trying to maintain their Haitian culture and assimilating enough to be able to work and live in a foreign society. In 1937, over 25,000 Haitians were forcibly removed from Cuba and shipped back to Haiti. This different treatment of migrant laborers is due to several factors. Cuban racists beliefs combined with economic concerns were a direct catalyst for this drastic Haitian exodus.\n\nCubans feared a reply of the Haitian Revolution, which was not quelled by the current guerrilla warfare in Haiti by the caco forces against the Americans. Similarly, black Haitians were stereotyped as being violent and rife with crime, as the subject of stereotypes wasn't uncommon in Cuba, as black Cubans are often stereotyped the same way.\n\nHaitian practice of vodou, was often mistaken for \"witchcraft.\" \n\nThe vast majority of Haitians spoke Haitian Creole, which created a language barrier forcing Haitians to remain in agricultural labor.\n\nHaitians lived in small communities near the sugar cane plantations, very rural and removed from populous cities.\n\nEconomic restraints amongst Haitians kept education informal and contained in their small communities, as such, very few of these Haitians had anything above a basic level of Creole literacy. This enabled Haitians to keep control over the cultural values their children received.\n\nMajority of Haitians are Catholic but vodou is also present behind the scenes. Vodou is decentralized and flexible. The rituals involved in vodou strengthen community ties and help the oppressed Haitians deal with their suffering.\n\nHaitians have continued to come to Cuba to work as braceros (hand workers, from the Spanish word brazo, meaning \"arm\") in the fields cutting cane. Their living and working conditions were not much better than slavery. Although they planned to return to Haiti, most stayed on in Cuba. For years, many Haitians and their descendants in Cuba did not identify themselves as such or speak Creole. In the eastern part of the island, many Haitians continued to suffer discrimination. But according to the Fidel Castro regime, since 1959, when he took over, this discrimination has stopped. After Spanish, Haitian Creole is the second most-spoken language in Cuba where over 300,000 recent Haitian immigrants speak it. It is recognized as a language in Cuba and a considerable number of Cubans speak it fluently. Most of these speakers have never been to Haiti and do not possess Haitian ancestry, but merely learned it in their communities. In addition to the eastern provinces, there are also communities in Ciego de Ávila and Camagüey provinces where the population still maintains Creole, their mother tongue. Classes in Creole are offered in Guantanamo, Matanzas and the City of Havana. There is a Creole-language radio program.. Haitian immigration to Cuba has increased since a re-establishment of diplomatic relations in 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30056709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30056709", "title": "James E. Shadid", "text": "James E. Shadid\n\nJames Edward Shadid (born September 27, 1957) is the Chief United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Central District of Illinois.\n\nShadid was born in 1957 in Peoria, Illinois. His father was George Shadid, who eventually became sheriff of Peoria County and Illinois state senator. James Shadid earned a Bachelor of Science from Bradley University in 1979 and his Juris Doctor from John Marshall Law School in Chicago in 1983.\n\nShadid was in private practice from 1983 to 2001, additionally acting as part-time public defender in Peoria County from 1986 to 2001 and a Commissioner of the Illinois Court of Claims from 1996 to 2001. In December 2001, Shadid was appointed to the Tenth Judicial Circuit of Illinois. He was primarily in felony court, with other work in misdemeanor and civil court.\n\nOn May 27, 2010, President Barack Obama nominated Shadid to replace Michael Mihm on the United States District Court for the Central District of Illinois. On March 7, 2011 he was confirmed by the Senate by a vote of 89 ayes to 0 nays and received his commission on March 10, 2011. Shadid became chief judge of the Central District on March 12, 2012; the position is rotated to a different judge in the district every seven years, and Shadid was sworn in by Michael P. McCuskey, who became chief judge in 2004 or 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "18261891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18261891", "title": "Japanese Chileans", "text": "Japanese Chileans\n\nJapanese Chileans ( or \"Nipo-chileno\", \"Nikkei Chiri-jin\") are Chileans with ethnic origin from Japan. The first Japanese in Chile were 126 immigrants hired to work in the mining industry in 1903. , Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs estimated there to be a total of roughly 2,600 Japanese people living in Chile. Among them were 1,108 temporary residents, 504 permanent residents, and approximately a thousand born locally.\n\nThe number of Japanese settlers in Chile never exceeded 900 between 1910 and 1940. Among those who entered the nation, there was a wide diversity of occupations ranging from professionals and businessmen to laborers re-migrating from neighboring countries, especially Peru which has the second largest Japanese population in Latin America and the sixth largest in world. They mostly settled in the nitrate-rich north and to the southern regions of Valparaíso and Santiago. They found employment in a variety of jobs as salaried workers and in small business interests, especially as barbers. The early Nikkei community was largely male. The majority of Issei men married Chilean women. Their children, the Nisei, were raised with the belief of \"If they are going to live in Chile, let them be Chilean\".\nHowever, World War II incited anti-Japanese sentiments and interrupted the Nikkei’s process of integration into Chilean society. Starting in early 1943, several dozen Japanese Chileans were forced to move from strategically sensitive areas (such as copper mines) to the interior of the country. Meanwhile, the Japanese community became more united, offering mutual support in the face of wartime oppositions. These ties would later be formalized after the war with the organization of the Japanese Beneficence Society (\"Sociedad Japonesa de Beneficencia\").\n\nBy the 1990s, Chilean Nikkei enjoyed middle-class status, a high educational level, and employment in white-collar jobs. Contrary to trends in other Latin American countries with a Nikkei population, less than 5% of the ethnic Japanese population has gone to Japan to work as \"dekasegis\". The small size of the Japanese community, its lack of unity, and the increase of mixed marriages call into question the future of the Chilean Nikkei. There are an estimated 3,800 Japanese and people of Japanese descent in Chile.\nToday, the new generations are maintaining some of their traditions, such as the japanese language and cultural events such as Hanami, and the Valparaíso Japan Festival () through organizations such as the Valparaíso Región Nikkei Corporation (Corporación Nikkei Región de Valparaíso).\n\nMost Japanese Chileans only speak Spanish. Only a select few can speak Japanese, while those with higher education speak English. There are even a number of Japanese Chilean schools that offer English-language teaching to recent Japanese residents.\n\nThe majority of Japanese Chileans are Roman Catholic Christians, while the rest are Buddhists and Shintoists.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54014256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54014256", "title": "Kitty Calavita", "text": "Kitty Calavita\n\nKitty C. Calavita is an American criminologist, focusing in sociology of law, criminology, immigration, criminal justice and inequality, currently the Chancellor's Professor Emerita at University of California, Irvine and an Elected Fellow of the American Political and Social Science Society.\n"}
{"id": "48889333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48889333", "title": "List of commencement addresses given by Helen Prejean", "text": "List of commencement addresses given by Helen Prejean\n\nThe following is a list of commencement speeches given by Sister Helen Prejean.\n"}
{"id": "21285296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21285296", "title": "List of container ports", "text": "List of container ports\n\nThis is a list of container terminals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22929711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22929711", "title": "Lists of rapid transit systems", "text": "Lists of rapid transit systems\n\nThese lists of rapid transit systems are sorted by the type of system:\n\n"}
{"id": "177779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177779", "title": "Lynn Fontanne", "text": "Lynn Fontanne\n\nLynn Fontanne (; 6 December 1887 – 30 July 1983) was a British-born American-based actress for over 40 years. She teamed with her husband, Alfred Lunt. Lunt and Fontanne were given special Tony Awards in 1970. They both won Emmy Awards in 1965, and Broadway's Lunt-Fontanne Theatre was named for them. Fontanne is regarded as one of the American theater's great leading ladies of the 20th century.\n\nBorn Lillie Louise Fontanne in Woodford, London, of French and Irish descent, her parents were Jules Fontanne and Frances Ellen Thornley. She had two sisters, one of whom later lived in England; the other lived in New Zealand.\n\nShe drew acclaim in 1921 playing the title role in the George S. Kaufman-Marc Connelly farce, \"Dulcy\". Dorothy Parker memorialized her performance in verse:\n\n<poem>\n\"Dulcy\", take our gratitude,\nAll your words are gold ones.\nMistress of the platitude,\nQueen of all the old ones.\nYou, at last, are something new\n'Neath the theatre's dome. I'd\nMention to the cosmos, you\nSwing a wicked bromide. ...</poem>\n\nShe soon became celebrated for her skill as an actress in high comedy, excelling in witty roles written for her by Noël Coward, S.N. Behrman, and Robert Sherwood. However, she enjoyed one of the greatest critical successes of her career as Nina Leeds, the desperate heroine of Eugene O'Neill's controversial nine-act drama \"Strange Interlude\". From the late 1920s on, Fontanne acted exclusively in vehicles also starring her husband. Among their greatest theater triumphs were \"Design for Living\" (1933), \"The Taming of the Shrew\" (1935–36), \"Idiot's Delight\" (1936), \"There Shall Be No Night\" (1940), and \"Quadrille\" (1952). \"Design for Living\", which Coward wrote expressly for himself and the Lunts, was so risqué, with its theme of bisexuality and a ménage à trois, that Coward premiered it in New York, knowing it would not survive the censor in London. The duo remained active onstage until retiring from stage performances in 1958. Fontanne was nominated for a Tony Award for one of her last stage roles, in \"The Visit\" (1959).\n\nFontanne and Lunt worked together in 27 productions. Of her acting style with Lunt, British broadcasting personality Arthur Marshall - having seen her in \"Caprice\" St James's Theatre (1929) - observed: \"In the plays of the period, actors waited to speak until somebody else had finished; the Lunts turned all that upside down. They threw away lines, they trod on each others words, they gabbled, they spoke at the same time. They spoke, in fact, as people do in ordinary life.\"\n\nFontanne made only four films but nevertheless was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress in 1931 for \"The Guardsman\", losing to Helen Hayes. She also appeared in the silent films \"Second Youth\" (1924) and \"The Man Who Found Himself\" (1925). She and husband Alfred also were in \"Hollywood Canteen\" (1944) in which they had cameos as themselves. The Lunts starred in four television productions in the 1950s and 1960s with both Lunt and Fontanne winning Emmy Awards in 1965 for \"The Magnificent Yankee\", Fontanne narrated the 1960 television production of \"Peter Pan\" starring Mary Martin and received a second Emmy nomination for playing Grand Duchess Marie in the Hallmark Hall of Fame telecast of \"Anastasia\" in 1967, two of the few productions in which she appeared without her husband. The Lunts also starred in several radio dramas in the 1940s, notably on the Theatre Guild programme. Many of these broadcasts still survive.\n\nOn 5 May 1958, the former Globe Theatre, at Broadway and 46th Street, originally opened in 1910 and later turned into a motion picture venue after the Stock Market Crash of 1929, was reopened after a massive gut renovation and renamed the Lunt-Fontanne Theatre. On that day the Lunts opened their new house with, \"The Visit\", by Dürrenmatt. After 189 performances, \"The Visit\" would be their last appearance on Broadway.\n\nTwenty years later, on 5 May 1978, Lynn Fontanne, aged ninety, was honored at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater, during a revival performance of Hello, Dolly!, by its star Carol Channing. A reminiscence of that evening, \"An Evening with Lynn Fontanne\", was published on-line by Martha Rofheart, a former protégée of Fontanne.\n\nIn 1964, Lunt and Fontanne were presented with the Presidential Medal of Freedom by then-President Lyndon Johnson.\n\nLike Lunt, Fontanne was a member of the American Theatre Hall of Fame. Fontanne was also a Kennedy Center honoree in 1980.\n\nSome of her costumes are curated in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Mount Mary University (formerly known as Mount Mary College) Historic Costume Collection.\n\nFontanne married Alfred Lunt in 1922. The union was childless. The couple lived for many years at \"Ten Chimneys\" in Genesee Depot, Wisconsin. They were married for 55 years and were inseparable both on and off the stage. \nFontanne went to great lengths to avoid divulging her true age. Her husband reportedly died believing she was five years younger than he (as she had told him). She was, in fact, five years older, but continued to deny, long after Lunt's death, that she was born in 1887.\n\nAsked once how to pronounce her surname, she told the \"Literary Digest\" she preferred the French way, but \"If the French is too difficult for American consumption, both syllables should be equally accented, and the \"a\" should be more or less broad\": \"fon-tahn\".\n\nLynn Fontanne died in 1983, aged 95, from pneumonia, at \"Ten Chimneys\" in Genesee Depot and was interred next to her husband at Forest Home Cemetery in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8795162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8795162", "title": "Maria Rye", "text": "Maria Rye\n\nMaria Susan Rye, (31 March 1829 – 12 November 1903), was a social reformer and a promoter of emigration from England, especially of young women living in Liverpool workhouses, to the colonies of the British Empire, especially Canada.\n\nShe was born at 2 Lower James Street, Golden Square, in central London, on 31 March 1829. She was the eldest of the nine children of Edward Rye, solicitor and bibliophile, and Maria Tuppen. Edward Rye of Baconsthorpe, Norfolk, was her grandfather. Of her brothers, Edward Caldwell Rye was an entomologist, and Walter Rye, solicitor, antiquary, and athlete, published works on Norfolk history and topography and was mayor of Norwich in 1908–9.\n\nMaria Rye received her education at home and read for herself in the large library of her father. Coming under the influence of Charles Kingsley's father, then vicar of St Luke's Church, she devoted herself at the age of sixteen to parochial work in Chelsea. She was impressed by the lack of opportunity of employment for women outside the teaching profession. In succession to Mary Howitt, she soon became secretary of the association for promoting the Married Women's Property bill, which was brought forward by Sir Thomas Erskine Perry in 1856 but was not fully passed till 1882.\n\nShe joined the Society for Promoting the Employment of Women on its foundation, but, disapproving of the women's franchise movement which the leading members supported, soon left it. In 1859, she undertook a private law-stationer's business at 12 Portugal Street, Lincoln's Inn, in order to give employment to middle class girls. At the same time, she helped to establish the Victoria Press in association with her business in 1860 (under the charge of Emily Faithfull), and the employment bureau and telegraph school in Great Coram Street, with Isa Craig as secretary. The telegraph school anticipated the employment of girls as telegraph clerks.\n\nThe law-stationer's business prospered, but the applications for employment were far in excess of the demands of the concern. With Jane Lewin, she consequently raised a fund for assisting middle class girls to emigrate, and to the question of emigration she devoted the rest of her life.\n\nShe founded, in 1861, the Female Middle class Emigration Society (absorbed since 1884 in the United British Women's Emigration Association). Between 1860 and 1868, she was instrumental in sending girls of the middle class and domestic servants to Australia, New Zealand, and Canada, and she visited these colonies to form committees for the protection of the emigrants.\n\nFrom 1868, when she handed over her law business to Lewin, Rye devoted herself exclusively to the emigration of pauper children, or, in a phrase which she herself coined, 'gutter children.' After visiting in New York the Little Wanderers' Home for the training of derelict children for emigrant life which Mr. Van Meter, a Baptist minister from Ohio, had founded, she resolved to give the system a trial in London. Encouraged by Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 7th Earl of Shaftesbury and \"The Times\" newspaper and with the financial support of William Rathbone VI, M.P., in 1869 she purchased Avenue House, High Street, Peckham, and with her two younger sisters, in spite of public opposition and prejudice, took there from the streets or the workhouses waifs and strays from the ages of three to sixteen. Fifty girls from Kirkdale industrial school, Liverpool, were soon put under her care ; they were trained in domestic economy and went through courses of general and religious instruction.\n\nAt Niagara, Canada, Miss Rye also acquired a building which she called 'Our Western Home.' It was opened on 1 December 1869. To this house Miss Rye drafted the children from Peckham, and after further training they were distributed in Canada as domestic servants among respectable families. The first party left England in October 1869. She received a civil list pension of £10 in 1871.\n\nPoor law children were subsequently received at Peckham from St. George's, Hanover Square, Wolverhampton, Bristol, Reading, and other towns. By 1891 Rye had found homes in Canada for some five hundred children. She accompanied each batch of emigrants, and visited the children already settled there. The work was continued with great success for over a quarter of a century, and did much to diminish the vicious habits and the stigma of pauperism. Lord Shaftesbury remained a consistent supporter, and in 1884 Henry Petty-Fitzmaurice, 5th Marquess of Lansdowne, then governor-general of Canada, warmly commended the results of her pioneer system, which Thomas John Barnardo and others subsequently adopted and extended.\n\nIn 1895, owing to the continuous strain, Miss Rye transferred the two institutions in Peckham and Niagara with their funds to the Church of England Waifs and Strays Society (now The Children's Society). In her farewell report of 1895 she stated that 4000 English and Scottish children then in Canada had been sent out from her home in England.\n\nShe retired with her sister Elizabeth to 'Baconsthorpe,' Hemel Hempstead, where she spent the remainder of her life. There she died, after four years' suffering, of intestinal cancer on 12 November 1903, and was buried in the churchyard. \n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "5595578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5595578", "title": "Mary French (attorney)", "text": "Mary French (attorney)\n\nMary French is an administrative law judge with the United States Social Security Administration. For over twenty years, until 2009, she served as a federal public defender in the Eastern District of California. She attended the University of California, Davis, and graduated from the Cornell Law School.\n\nHer clients and cases include Kenneth Fetterman, one of the first prosecutions for online auction fraud, which ironically set the record for the most expensive painting to be \"sold\" online to date. and Adrian Lamo.\n"}
{"id": "44996487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44996487", "title": "Moulvi Agha Muhammad", "text": "Moulvi Agha Muhammad\n\nMoulvi Agha Muhammad (; born 1 January 1944) is a Pakistani politician who had been a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan, from 2008 to May 2018.\n\nHe was born on 1 January 1944.<ref name=\"pildat/dob\"></ref>\n\nHe was elected to the National Assembly of Pakistan as a candidate of Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA) from Constituency NA-261 (Pishin-cum-Ziarat) in Pakistani general election, 2008. He received 30,611 votes and defeated Muhammad Sarwar Khan.\n\nHe was re-elected to the National Assembly as a candidate of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F) (JUI-F) from Constituency NA-261 (Pishin-cum-Ziarat) in Pakistani general election, 2013. He received 48,712 votes and defeated Muhammad Essa Roshan, a candidate of Pashtunkhwa Milli Awami Party (PKMAP). In the same election, he ran for the seat of the National Assembly as an independent candidate from Constituency NA-263 (Loralai-cum-Musakhel-cum-Barkhan) but was unsuccessful. He received 152 votes and lost the seat to Ameer Zaman.\n\nIn 2014, he was disqualified as the member of National Assembly and re-election in the constituency was ordered. His National Assembly membership was later reinstated by The Supreme Court of Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "48470055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48470055", "title": "Ninoy Aquino International Airport bullet planting scandal", "text": "Ninoy Aquino International Airport bullet planting scandal\n\nIn September 2015, reports of passengers at the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) in Manila being accosted and fined for possessing bullet ammunition began to receive attention from the public and later both the local and international press. These incidents were alleged to be part of a \"bullet planting\" scheme (locally known as laglag-bala [drop bullet] or tanim bala [plant bullet]) done by airport security personnel as a means of extortion. \n\nAs of 5 November, at least thirty cases of the scheme were recorded in 2015, according to the Philippine National Police Aviation Security Group (PNP-AVSEGROUP), with the Manila International Airport Authority (MIAA) recording only five such incidents.\n\nIn early November 2015, President Benigno Aquino III ordered the Department of Transportation and Communications to conduct an investigation of the alleged scheme. The National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) later confirmed that an extortion syndicate is behind the bullet planting scheme, based on their initial findings. According to the NBI's investigation, some porters are involved in identifying potential victims of the bullet planting scam. Allegedly, airport officials in the security and immigration services present in the four terminals of the airport pursue target victims after their identification by porters. Usual victims were found to be the elderly and \"overseas Filipino workers\" (OFWs).\n\nOn 31 October, Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago filed a resolution at the Senate calling for the creation of a task force to tackle the issue. On the same day, Senator Alan Peter Cayetano called for the resignation of airport officials if they will not determine and catch the ones responsible behind the bullet planting incidents within 48 hours. Davao City mayor Rodrigo Duterte, a presumptive presidential candidate in the 2016 Philippine presidential election, further alleged that a syndicate is behind the series of incidents. Duterte said the operation had been going on for more than two years.\n\nHowever, on 4 November, former Interior and Local Government Secretary and ruling-party presidential candidate for the 2016 elections Mar Roxas defended the administration over the controversy, stating that bullet carriers have to take responsibility, saying: \"If you enter the airport with contraband, then how does that become the government's problem?\" He further stated that government data showed these cases mostly involved tourists coming from shooting ranges and had bullets for souvenir, telling reporters it is inconsistent with the administration's \"Daang Matuwid\" (Straight Path) slogan to extort money from people. During a press briefing at the NAIA earlier that day, transportation officials said 6,000 cases have been recorded since 2012.\n\nOn 6 November, Labor and Employment Secretary Rosalinda Baldoz announced the creation of an inter-agency team tasked to monitor and assist OFW victims of the bullet planting scam. The inter-agency team was to be composed of representatives from the Department of Labor and Employment, the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration, and the Overseas Workers Welfare Administration, among others; the team would coordinate with the MIAA, the PNP-AVSEGROUP, the Office for Transportation Security, the NBI, and the Department of Justice.\n\nOn 23 November, during a coffee meeting with reporters at the sidelines of the ASEAN Summit in Kuala Lumpur, President Aquino said that the statistics presented to him do not necessarily add up to the possibility that an extortion racket exists inside NAIA. He said that the controversy on the supposed \"laglag bala\" extortion racket in airports had been \"sensationalized\" and used by certain groups to put his administration in a bad light. He expressed sympathy toward \"innocent airport employees\" who have been affected by the controversy. However, in another GMA News Online report posted the following day and culled from an exclusive report by Jun Veneracion on GMA News' early evening newscast \"24 Oras\", a memo from the Office for Transportation Security (OTS) dated show of 3 June 2015 that the OTS has a cash reward policy for finding contraband items such as weapons and explosives at security checkpoints, providing for rewards of up to ₱1,000 for explosives, weapons, \"stunning devices\" and dangerous drugs found by OTS personnel or Security Screening Officers (SSOs). Transport Security Risk Management Bureau assistant administrative director Roberto Almadin confirmed the existence of the memo, but he said only two to three people have been given rewards. He also asked the public to disassociate the memo from the \"laglag-bala\" extortion scheme. The memo, signed by OTS administrator Roland Recomono, also stated that the rewards were instituted \"to boost the welfare and morale of OTS personnel\". A later memo dated 8 July had a revision of the category list, indicating that OTS personnel could claim rewards for a single piece of explosive and for every five pieces of ammunition found per month. Spocky Farolan, the legal counsel of an overseas Filipino worker who almost lost her job due to the alleged scheme, said the memo's lack of publicity could make the public more suspicious of the agency.\n\nThe following day, 25 November, GMA Network's \"Unang Balita\" reported that another overseas Filipino worker on his way to Macau for a vacation was prevented from boarding his flight on 23 November when he was caught with a bullet in his bag at the NAIA. The bullet was allegedly found in passenger Gerard Ubarde's bag containing medicines. Ubarde said it was impossible for a bullet to be in his bag since he knew it was against the law to carry one. He was immediately released after the case was dismissed. Meanwhile, the MIAA installed disposal booths at NAIA to give passengers a chance to rid their bags of banned items.\n\nMeanwhile, also on 25 November, the camp of American national Michael Lane White expressed disappointment in the Philippines' justice system, which they perceived to be slow in resolving their \"laglag-bala\" case. White's camp expected the court to junk the case that day; a counter-motion from former Office for Transportation Security screeners prevented this. \"Every time we come in here were expecting it to be dismissed and it just keeps getting kicked down the road so I don't know. We have hope in the Lord but our hope in the court system here is fading fast,\" White's father, Ryan, was quoted as saying in a report from \"24 Oras\". White said his son was already feeling ill due to the stress he was facing from repeatedly having to attend court hearings. He also said they were not pleased with President Aquino's recent statement on the incidence of \"lagla-bala\" at the NAIA. \"If this is just a few random bandits running around and extorting people, this would have been squashed long ago. But the fact that it is still going on means that the entire airport is corrupt,\" he said. Ryan White was alleged to have had a bullet in his luggage when he checked through NAIA last September, possession of which is a crime in Philippine law. White's camp was reported to be holding out hope that their case would be resolved the following week.\n\nOn July 6, 2016, President Rodrigo Duterte has ordered new Aviation Security Group chief Mao Aplasca to its personnel that no arrests will be made nor conviction on airport passengers caught with bullets in their luggages.\n\nThere was public outcry among Filipinos in the social media. An online petition decrying the incident was started with about 12,000 people signing the petition as of 31 October 2015. Internet memes also spread on Facebook against the government and Roxas for their downplaying, and/or denying, the \"laglag bala\" scheme as a problem. One meme also pointed out the MIAA chairman's (retired major general Jose Angel Honrado's) being a cousin of President Aquino and the Department of Transportation and Communication secretary's (Jun Abaya's) being a great-grandchild of turn-of-the-20th-century revolutionary Emilio Aguinaldo (recently depicted in the popular movie \"Heneral Luna\" as a possible traitor).\n\nMobile game applications launched by Kulit Games and Mesocyclone Studios, entitled \"Tanim Bala\", were inspired by the NAIA bullet planting scheme. They can be downloaded via the Google Play and App Store (iOS) store, respectively.\n\nA Japanese TV show satirically re-enacted the scandal, showing the theory of how the NAIA personnel may have supposedly planted bullets in travelers' bags. The host explained that the personnel would plant the bullets in the travelers' bags at airport security. Upon finding the bullets through the baggage x-ray machine, the personnel would open the bag to retrieve the bullets and offer the victim a fine to skip questioning and detention. It then showed footage of bags being wrapped in plastic.\n\nHong Kong news sites Hong Kong Free Press and \"The Standard\" published their own reports over the \"laglag-bala\" scheme. On 4 November, Thursday, Fox News anchor Greta Van Susteren on her program \"On the Record\" called out Filipino airport authorities allegedly involved in the extortion scheme. She also said in a Facebook post, \"The Philippines may get mad at me, but this airport bullet planting scam deserves to be called out!\".\n\nOn 10 December, the Philippines' National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) pressed charges in their behalf against of the following:\n\nThese accused allegedly tried to extort money from Lane Michael White—an American missionary who allegedly fell victim to the 'tanim-bala' scam at the airport on 17 September. The money allegedly asked amounted to ₱30,000. Clarin, Junio, Bernardino, and Navarro face charges for Violations of Article V, Section 38 (Liability for Planting Evidence) of Republic Act (RA) No. 10591 (the Comprehensive Firearms and Ammunition Regulation Act); robbery/extortion; and violations of RA No. 7438 and RA No. 3019.\n\nOn late June 2016, the Department of Justice dismissed criminal complaints against the above-mentioned employees filed by White due to insufficient proof of evidence of being planted by bullets.\n"}
{"id": "25027292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25027292", "title": "Nudes-A-Poppin'", "text": "Nudes-A-Poppin'\n\nNudes-A-Poppin' is an annual pageant in the United States for nude women and men competing in erotic dance. It is the most well-known nude event in Indiana.\nThe Nudes-A-Poppin' pageant is organized by and held at Ponderosa Sun Club, a family nudist resort founded in 1964 and situated in Roselawn, Indiana. The event was first held in 1975 to attract interest in the resort and has been held annually since then. Its \"Miss Nude Galaxy\" beauty contest dates back to the mid-70s. Nudes-A-Poppin' serves as a fund-raiser for the resort and contributes significantly to the local economy. The resort is closed to its members during the pageant, and the one-day event tickets can only be purchased separately. The attendance fee for the event was $50 in 2005 but had risen to $60 by 2016. Up to 2003, there was one event in July and another in August, but, from 2004, Nudes-A-Poppin' was reduced to one weekend in July.\n\nEvents held at Nudes-A-Poppin' are the amateur wet T-shirt contest, the sexiest pole dance competition, naked oil wrestling, and others. A \"Miss Nude\" contest judged by the audience is held here. Various trophies, with titles such as \"Miss Nude Galaxy\", \"Miss Nude Go-Go\", \"Miss Nude Up & Comer\", \"Miss Nude Rising Star\", \"Miss Nude Showstopper\" etc, are awarded to the nude contestants. \n\nLou Harry, writing for \"Indianapolis Monthly\", noted that the participants are prohibited from having sexual contact with another person attending the event or from performing explicitly. \n\nMost of the contestants are women. The spectators perform as judges and consist mostly of men. Photography is a popular activity at the pageant. Spectators are allowed to take photographs but the use of video cameras requires a permit.\n\nLocal porn stars, strippers, and nudists participate in the event, attracting thousands of other spectators. By 2017 the anticipated number of attendees was around 6000, with the event drawing an international audience. The official website of the event states that \"no clothes are tolerated at the pool.\" Former porn star Ron Jeremy has acted as emcee for Nudes-A-Poppin' since 1990 and personalities such as \"Home Improvement\" star Tim Allen, \"The Munsters\" star Al Lewis, and John Wayne Bobbitt have also hosted the event.\n\nIn a list titled \"Top 10: Sex Festivals\" compiled by AskMen.com, Nudes-A-Poppin' is ranked at number four. \n\nBecause of this pageant, along with a high frequency of other adult festivals, adult clubs, and sexual activities such as erotic dancing, public sex, and exhibitionism, Roselawn, Indiana placed 1st in the \"10 Kinkiest Cities\" list compiled by AlterNet.org. \n\nPonderosa Sun Club promotes Nudes-A-Poppin' as \"The World's Largest Outdoor Nude Beauty Pageant\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "437071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=437071", "title": "Nuristanis", "text": "Nuristanis\n\nThe Nuristanis are an ethnic group native to the Nuristan region of eastern Afghanistan, who speak Indo-Iranian languages, including Nuristani. In the mid-1890s, after the establishment of the Durand Line when Afghanistan ceded various frontier areas to the British Empire, Emir Abdur Rahman Khan conducted a military campaign in Nuristan and followed up his conquest with conversion of the Nuristanis to Islam; the region thenceforth being known as \"Nuristan\", the \"Land of Light\". Before their conversion, the Nuristanis (then known as \"Kafiristanis\") practiced a form of ancient Hinduism. Non-Muslim religious practices endure in Nuristan today to some degree as folk customs. In their native rural areas, they are often farmers, herders, and dairymen.\n\nThe Nuristanis are distinguished from the Kalash and a segment of the Kho people of Chitral by their adoption of Islam, territory within Afghanistan, and consolidation with other Afghans. The Nuristan region has been a prominent location for war scenes that have led to the death of many indigenous Nuristanis. Nuristan has also received abundance of settlers from the surrounding Afghanistan regions due to the borderline vacant location.\n\nNoted linguist Richard Strand, an authority on Hindu Kush languages, observed the following about pre-Islamic Nuristani religion:\n\n\"Before their conversion to Islâm the Nuristânis practiced a form of ancient Hinduism, infused with accretions developed locally\".\n\nThey acknowledged a number of human-like deities who lived in the unseen Deity World (Kâmviri d'e lu; cf. Sanskrit deva lok'a-).\n\nCertain deities were revered only in one community or tribe, but one was universally revered as the creator: the Hindu god Yama Râja called imr'o in Kâmviri. There is a creator god, appearing under various names, as lord of the nether world and of heaven: Yama Rājan, or Māra ('death', Nuristani), or \"Dezau\" (ḍezáw) whose name is derived from Indo-European *dheig'h i.e. \"to form\" (Kati Nuristani dez \"to create\", CDIAL 14621); Dezauhe is also called by the Pashto term \"Khodai\". There are a number of other deities, semi-gods and spirits. The Kalash pantheon is thus one of the few living representatives of Indo-European religion.\n\nThe Kafirs believed in many deities, whose names resembled those of Iranian and old Vedic sources. There was a supreme deity named Mara or Imra, plus a multitude of lesser gods and goddesses known locally as Mandi or Moni, Wushum or Shomde, Gish or Giwish, Bagisht, Indr, Züzum, Disani, Kshumai or Kime etc.\n\nEach village and each clan had its guardian deity, with shamans advising the help-seekers and priests presiding at religious services. The cult centered on the sacrifice of animals, mostly goats.\n\nLike certain other groups in the region, they sometimes exhibit physical characteristics of light hair, eyes, and skin. Most of these people are from the Kata Family and Janaderi Branch. However, there are other Nuristani tribes as well, some of the Kata of Janaderi people live in Ozhor (now Karimabad), Gobor, Buburat, Ayun, Broze and Mastuj. There is a very popular rock associated with this tribe located in Karimabad (Juwara) called \"kata bont\" (Kata is the name of the tribe; \"bont\" meaning \"stone\" in the Chitrali language).\n\nThe area extending from modern Nooristan to Kashmir was known as \"Peristan\", a vast area containing host of \"Kafir\" cultures and Indo-European languages that became Islamized over a long period. Earlier, it was surrounded by Buddhist states and societies which temporarily extended literacy and state rule to the region. The journey to the region was perilious according to reports of Chinese pilgrims Fa-hsien and Sung Yun. The decline of Buddhism resulted in the region becoming heavy isolated. The Islamization of the nearby Badakhshan began in 8th century and Peristan was completely surrounded by Muslim states in the 16th century. The Kalasha people of lower Chitral are the last surviving heirs of the area.\n\nIn 4th century BC, Alexander the Great encountered them and reduced them after a stubborn and prolonged fight, describing them as being distinct culturally and religiously from other peoples of the region.\n\nIn 1014 CE, Mahmud of Ghazni attacked them:\n\nNuristanis were formerly classified into \"Siah-Posh (\"black-robed\") Kafirs\" and \"Safed-Posh (\"white-robed\")/Lall-Posh (\"Red-Robed\") Kafirs\". Timur fought with and was humbled by the Siah-Posh Kafirs. Babur advised not to tangle with them. Genghis Khan passed by them. In the 19th century, it was typical of the Kafirs to boast about having killed the sons of Ali.\n\nThe region is called \"Kafiristan\" because while the surrounding populations were converted to Islam, the people in this region retained their traditional religion, and were thus known as \"Kafirs\" to the Muslims. The Arabic word \"Kufr\" means not only to disbelieve, but also to blaspheme, and therefore, its derivative \"Kafir\" means one who commits blasphemy against Allah in the Islamic tradition. Thus \"Kafir\" here is used to refer to their being non-Muslims; the province was therefore known as Kafiristan. The majority were converted to Islam during Abdur Rahman Khan's rule around 1895. The province is now known as Nuristani, and the people as Nuristanis. However, among the rural population many old customs and beliefs like occasional production of wine and the avoidance of veils have continued and the people of these regions adhere to a syncretic form of Islam which is considered impure by the Wahhabist belief system of the Taliban who rule some areas of Nuristan Province today, and so is disappearing or being pushed underground in those areas.\n\n\"Kafir\" has also been traced to \"Kapiś\" (= \"Kapish\"), the ancient Sanskrit name of the region that included historic Kafiristan; which is also given as \"Ki-pin\" (or \"Ke-pin, Ka-pin, Chi-pin\") in old Chinese chronicles. That name, unrelated to the Arabic word, is believed to have mutated at some point into the word \"Kapir\". \"Kapiś\", the name of the people of Kapiś/Kapiśa, is believed to have changed to Kapir and then Kafir, because of the lack of 'p' in Arabic. This is similar to how Parsi changed to Farsi.\nGeneral Issa Nuristani was second in command following the King during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Before his assassination, General Issa called the Nuristani people in a \"Jihad\" against the Soviet Army. The Nuristani people were among the first in Afghanistan to rise against the Soviet invasion. They played an important role in the conquering of some provinces, including Kunar, Nangarhar, Badakhshan, and Panshir. Following the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, the Mawlavy Ghulam Rabani was declared as governor of the Kunar Province.\n\nMost of the former Hindu Kush Kafir people are considered the ancestors of the Nuristanis. Led by the Koms tribe, the Nuristani were the first citizens of Afghanistan to revolt against the Communist takeover in 1978. Thereafter, Nuristan remained a scene of some of the bloodiest guerrilla fighting with the Soviet forces from 1979 through 1989. The Nuristanis inspired others to fight and contributed to the demise of the Afghan Communist regime in 1992.\n\nIn a 2012 research on five Nuristani samples, three were found to belong to Haplogroup R1a, with one each in R2a and J2a.\n\nThe Nuristani do not have a formal tribal structure as the Pashtuns do, however they do designate themselves by the names of the local regions they are from. In total, there are 35 such designations: five from the north-south valleys and 30 from the east-west valley.\n\nSome of these tribes include:\n\nNuristanis were depicted as their pre-Islamic past the Kafiristanis, as one of peoples inhabiting Kafiristan in Rudyard Kipling's story called \"The Man Who Would Be King\" which was then made into a film. The story was published in 1888, eight years before Nuristan was conquered and converted to Islam by Emir Abdur Rahman Khan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1619567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619567", "title": "Pontic Greeks", "text": "Pontic Greeks\n\nThe Pontic Greeks, also known as Pontian Greeks (, \"Póntioi\", \"Ellinopóntioi\"; , , \"P’ont’oeli Berdznebi\"), are an ethnically Greek group who came first from Peloponnese which migrated and traditionally lived in the region of Pontus, on the shores of the Black Sea and in the Pontic Mountains of northeastern Anatolia. Many later migrated to other parts of Eastern Anatolia, to the former Russian province of Kars Oblast in the Transcaucasus, and to Georgia in various waves between the Ottoman conquest of the Empire of Trebizond in 1461 and the second Russo-Turkish War of 1828-1829. Those from southern Russia, Ukraine, and Crimea are often referred to as \"Northern Pontic [Greeks]\", in contrast to those from \"South Pontus\", which strictly speaking is Pontus proper. Those from Georgia, northeastern Anatolia, and the former Russian Caucasus are in contemporary Greek academic circles often referred to as \"Eastern Pontic [Greeks]\" or as Caucasian Greeks, but also include the Turkic-speaking Urums.\n\nPontic Greeks have Greek ancestry and speak the Pontic Greek dialect, a distinct form of the standard Greek language which, due to the remoteness of Pontus, has undergone linguistic evolution distinct from that of the rest of the Greek world. The Pontic Greeks had a continuous presence in the region of Pontus (modern-day northeastern Turkey), Georgia, and Eastern Anatolia from at least 700 BC until 1922.\n\nNowadays, due to extensive intermarriage (also with non-Pontic Greeks), the exact number of Greeks from the Pontus, or people with Greek ancestry still living there, is unknown. After 1988, Pontian Greeks in the Soviet Union started to migrate to Greece settling in and around Athens and Thessaloniki, and especially Greek Macedonia. The largest communities of Pontian Greeks (or people of Pontian Greek descent) around the world are:\n\nIn Greek mythology the Black Sea region is the region where Jason and the Argonauts sailed to find the Golden Fleece. The Amazons, female warriors in Greek Mythology lived in Pontus and minority lived in Taurica, also known as Crimea which is also the minor unique settlement of Pontic Greeks. The warlike characteristics of Pontic Greeks had once said to have been derived of Amazons of Pontus.\n\nThe first recorded Greek colony, established on the northern shores of ancient Anatolia, was Sinope on the Black Sea, circa 800 BC. The settlers of Sinop were merchants from the Ionian Greek city state of Miletus. After the colonization of the shores of the Black Sea, known until then to the Greek world as \"Pontos Axeinos\" (Inhospitable Sea), the name changed to \"Pontos Euxeinos\" (Hospitable Sea). In time, as the numbers of Greeks settling in the region grew significantly, more colonies were established along the whole Black Sea coastline of what is now Turkey, Bulgaria, Georgia, Russia, Ukraine, and Romania.\n\nThe region of Trapezus (later called Trebizond, now Trabzon) was mentioned by Xenophon in his famous work \"Anabasis\", describing how he and other 10,000 Greek mercenaries fought their way to the Euxine Sea after the failure of the rebellion of Cyrus the Younger whom they fought for, against his older brother Artaxerxes II of Persia. Xenophon mentions that when at the sight of sea they shouted \"Thalatta! Thalatta!\" – \"The sea! The sea!\", the local people understood them. They were Greeks too and, according to Xenophon, they had been there for over 300 years. A whole range of trade flourished among the various Greek colonies, but also with the indigenous tribes who inhabited the Pontus inland. Soon Trebizond established a leading stature among the other colonies and the region nearby become the heart of the Pontian Greek culture and civilization. A notable inhabitant of the region was Philetaerus (c. 343 BC–263 BC) who was born to a Greek father in the small town of Tieion which was situated on the Black Sea coast of the Pontus Euxinus, he founded the Attalid dynasty and the Anatolian city of Pergamon in the second century BC.\n\nThis region was organized circa 281 BC as a kingdom by Mithridates I of Pontus, whose ancestry line dated back to Ariobarzanes I, a Persian ruler of the Greek town of Cius. The most prominent descendant of Mithridates I was Mithridates VI of Pontus, who between 90 and 65 BC fought the Mithridatic Wars, three bitter wars against the Roman Republic, before eventually being defeated. Mithridates VI the Great, as he was left in memory, claiming to be the protector of the Greek world against the barbarian Romans, expanded his kingdom to Bithynia, Crimea and Propontis (in present-day Ukraine and Turkey) before his downfall after the Third Mithridatic War.\n\nNevertheless, the kingdom survived as a Roman vassal state, now named Bosporan Kingdom and based in Crimea, until the 4th century AD, when it succumbed to the Huns. The rest of the Pontus became part of the Roman Empire, while the mountainous interior (Chaldia) was fully incorporated into the Eastern Roman Empire during the 6th century.\n\nPontus was the birthplace of the Komnenos dynasty, which ruled the Byzantine Empire from 1082 to 1185, a time in which the empire resurged to recover much of Anatolia from the Seljuk Turks. In the aftermath of the fall of Constantinople to the Crusaders of the Fourth Crusade in 1204, the Empire of Trebizond was established by Alexios I of Trebizond, a descendant of Alexios I Komnenos, the patriarch of the Komnenos dynasty. The Empire was ruled by this new branch of the Komenos dynasty which bore the name Megas Komnenos Axouch (or Axouchos or Afouxechos) as early rulers intermarried with the family of Axouch, a Byzantine noble house of Turkic origin which included famed politicians such as John Axouch\n\nThis empire lasted for more than 250 years until it eventually fell at the hands of Mehmed II of the Ottoman Empire in 1461. However it took the Ottomans 18 more years to finally defeat the Greek resistance in Pontus. During this long period of resistance many Pontic Greeks nobles and aristocrats married foreign emperors and dynasties, most notably of Medieval Russia, Medieval Georgia, or the Safavid Persian dynasty, and to a lesser extent the Kara Koyunlu rulers, in order to gain their protection and aid against the Ottoman threat. Many of the landowning and lower-class families of Pontus \"turned-Turk\", adopting the Turkish language and Turkish Islam but often remaining crypto-Christian before reverting to their Greek Orthodoxy in the early 19th century. Between 1461 and the second Russo-Turkish War of 1828-29, other Pontic Greeks from northeastern Anatolia migrated as refugees or economic migrants (especially miners and livestock breeders) into nearby Armenia or Georgia, where they came to form a nucleus of Pontic Greeks which increased in size with the addition of each wave of refugees and migrants until these eastern Pontic Greek communities of the South Caucasus region came to define themselves as Caucasian Greeks.\n\nDuring the Ottoman period a number of Pontian Greeks converted to Islam and adopted the Turkish language. This could be willingly, for example so to avoid paying the higher rate of taxation imposed on Orthodox Christians or in order to make themselves more eligible for higher level government and regular military employment opportunities within the empire (at least in the later period following the abolition of the infamous Greek and Balkan Christian child levy or 'devshirme', on which the elite Janissary corps had in the early Ottoman period depended for its recruits). But conversion could also occur in response to pressures from central government and local Muslim militia (e.g.) following any one of the Russo-Turkish wars in which ethnic Greeks from the Ottoman Empire's northern border regions were known to have collaborated, fought alongside, and sometimes even led invading Russian forces, such as was the case in the Greek governed, semi-autonomous Romanian Principalities, Trebizond, and the area that was briefly to become part of the Russian Caucasus in the far northeast.\n\nLarge communities (around 25% of the population) of Christian Pontic Greeks remained throughout the Pontus area (including Trabzon and Kars in northeastern Turkey/the Russian Caucasus) until the 1920s, and in parts of Georgia and Armenia until the 1990s, preserving their own customs and dialect of Greek.\n\nIn fact, the second half of the nineteenth century saw large numbers of such pro-Russian Pontic Greeks from the Pontic Alps and Erzerum province resettle in the area around Kars (which together with southern Georgia already had a nucleus of Caucasian Greeks). The mountainous vilayet (province) of Kars was ceded to the Russian Empire following the Russo-Turkish war that culminated in the 1878 Treaty of San Stefano. They had declined the expedient of conversion to Islam, abandoned their lands, and sought refuge in territory now controlled by their Christian Orthodox \"protector\", which used Pontic Greeks, Georgians, and southern Russians, and even non-Orthodox Armenians, Germans, and Estonians to \"Christianize\" this recently conquered southern Caucasus region, which it then administered as the newly created Kars Oblast (Kars Province).\nOn the eve of World War I, the Young Turk administration exerted a policy of assimilation and ethnic cleansing of the Orthodox Christians in the Empire, which affected Pontian Greeks, as well as Armenians, Assyrians and Maronites. In 1916 Trabzon itself fell to the forces of the Russian Empire, fomenting the idea of an independent Pontic state. As the Bolsheviks came to power with the October Revolution (7 November 1917), Russian forces withdrew from the region to take part in the Russian Civil War (1917–1923).\n\nIn 1917–1922, there existed an unrecognized state by the name Republic of Pontus, led by Chrysanthus, Metropolitan of Trebizond. In 1917 Greece and the Entente powers considered the creation of a Hellenic autonomous state in Pontus, most likely as part of a Ponto-Armenian Federation. In 1919 on the fringes of the Paris Peace Conference Chrysanthos proposed the establishment of a fully independent Republic of Pontus, but neither Greece nor the other delegations supported it.\n\nOnce the Russians had evacuated Pontus, Greeks and Armenians in the region became the targets of irregular Turkish and Kurdish militia, as did the Assyrians of south east Anatolia. Seeing the fate of Armenians and Assyrian Genocide unfold, Pontian Greeks were themselves forced to take up armed resistance, leading to what became known as the Pontus resistance (αντάρτικο του Πόντου in Greek), which lasted until 1923, when the population exchange between Greece and Turkey was agreed under the terms of the Treaty of Lausanne. While most Christian Pontians were forced to leave for Greece – avoiding nearby Russia, which in the decade post-1917 was plunged into the chaos of revolution and civil war – those who had converted to Islam (and in accordance with historical precedent were considered to have \"turned Turk\") remained in Turkey and were assimilated into the Muslim population of the north and northeast, where their bi-lingual Greek- and Turkish-speaking descendents can still be found.\n\n\"Rumca\", as the Pontian Greek language is known in Turkey, survives today, mostly among older speakers. After the exchange most Pontian Greeks settled in Macedonia and Attica. Pontian Greeks inside the Soviet Union were predominantly settled in the regions bordering the Georgian SSR and Armenian SSR. They also had notable presence in Black Sea ports like Odessa and Sukhumi. About 100,000 Pontian Greeks, including 37,000 in the Caucasus area alone, were deported to Central Asia in 1949 during Stalin's post-war deportations. Big indigenous communities exist today in former USSR states, while through immigration large numbers can be found in Germany, Australia, and the United States.\n\nLike Armenians, Assyrians, and other Ottoman subjects, the Greeks of Trebizond and the short-lived Russian Caucasus province of Kars (which, in 1918, fell back under Ottoman control) suffered widespread massacres and what is now usually termed ethnic cleansing at the beginning of the 20th century, first by the Young Turks, and later by Kemalist forces. In both cases, the pretext was again that the Pontic Greeks and Armenians had collaborated or fought with the forces of their Russian co-religionists and \"protectors\" before the termination of hostilities between the two empires that followed the October Revolution. Death marches through Turkey's mountainous terrain, forced labour in the infamous \"Amele Taburu\" in Anatolia, and slaughter by the irregular bands of Topal Osman resulted in tens of thousands of Pontic Greeks perishing during the period from 1915 to 1922. In 1923, after hundreds of years, those remaining were expelled from Turkey to Greece as part of the population exchange between Greece and Turkey defined by the Treaty of Lausanne. In his book \"Black Sea\", author Neal Ascherson writes:\n\nThe suffering of the Pontian Greeks did not end upon their violent and forceful departure from the lands of their ancestors. Many Pontian Greek refugees perished during the voyage from Asia Minor to Greece. Notable accounts of these voyages have been included in Steve Papadopoulos’ work on Pontian culture and history. Pontian Greek immigrants to the United States from that era were quoted as saying:\n\nAccording to the 1928 census of Greece, there were in total 240,695 Pontic Greek refugees in Greece. From Russia 11,435, from the Caucasus 47,091, and, from the Pontus region of Anatolia, 182,169.\n\nSome of the settlements historically inhabited by Pontian Greeks include (current official names in parenthesis):\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEthnic Greeks indigenous to the high plateau of Eastern Anatolia to the immediate south of the boundaries of the Empire of Trebizond - essentially the northern portion of the former Ottoman Vilayet of Erzurum between Erzinjan and Kars province, that is the western half of the Armenian Highlands - are sometimes differentiated from both Pontic Greeks proper and Caucasian Greeks. These Greeks pre-date the refugees and migrants who left their homelands in the Pontic Alps and moved onto the Eastern Anatolian plateau after the fall of the Empire of Trebizond in 1461. They were mainly the descendants of Greek farmers, soldiers, state officials and traders, who settled in Erzurum province in the late Roman and Byzantine Empire period.\n\nUnlike the thoroughly Hellenized areas of the western and central Black Sea coast and the Pontic Alps, the Erzinjan and Erzerum regions were primarily Turkish- and Armenian-speaking, with Greeks forming only a small minority of the population. The Greeks of this region were consequently more exposed to Turkish and Armenian cultural influences than those of Pontus proper, and also more likely to have a strong command of the Turkish language, particular since the areas they inhabited had also been part of the Seljuk Sultanate of Rum and other pre-Ottoman Turkish powers in Central and Eastern Anatolia. Many are also known to have \"turned Turk\" in both the Seljuk and Ottoman periods, and consequently to have assimilated into Turkish society or reverted to Christian Orthodoxy in the 19th century. Erzurum province was invaded and occupied by the Russian Empire several times in the 19th and early 20th centuries, and large numbers of Eastern Anatolia Greeks are known to have collaborated with the Russians in these campaigns, particularly that of the 1828-9 Russo-Turkish War, alongside Pontic Greeks inhabiting areas to the immediate north of Erzinjan and Erzurum.\n\nAs with Pontic Greeks proper, those Eastern Anatolia Greeks who migrated eastwards into Kars province, Georgia, Armenia and Southern Russia between the early Ottoman period and 1829 generally assimilated into the branch of Pontic Greeks usually called Caucasian Greeks. Those who remained and retained their Greek identity into the early 20th century were either deported to the Kingdom of Greece as part of the Exchange of populations between Greece and Turkey in 1923-4 or massacred in the Greek Genocide that occurred after the larger Armenian Genocide in the same part of Anatolia.\n\nThe culture of Pontus has been strongly influenced by the topography of its different regions. In commercial cities like Trebizond, Samsunda, Kerasounda, and Sinopi upper level education and arts flourished under the protection of a cosmopolitan middle class. In the inland cities such as Argyroupolis, the economy was based upon agriculture and mining, thus creating an economic and cultural gap between the developed urban ports and the rural centers which lay upon the valleys and plains extending from the base of the Pontic alps.\n\nPontic's linguistic lineage stems from Ionic Greek via Koine and Byzantine Greek with many archaisms and contains loanwords from Turkish and to a lesser extent, Persian and various Caucasian languages.\n\nThe rich cultural activity of Pontian Greeks is witnessed by the number of educational institutions, churches, and monasteries in the region. These include the Phrontisterion of Trapezous that operated from 1682/3 to 1921 and provided a major impetus for the rapid expansion of Greek education throughout the region. The building of this institution still remains the most impressive Pontic Greek monument in the city.\n\nAnother well known institution was the Argyroupolis, built in 1682 and 1722 respectively, 38 highschools in the Sinopi region, 39 highschools in the Kerasounda region, a plethora of churches and monasteries, most notable of which are the St. Eugenios and Hagia Sophia churches of Trapezeus, the monasteries of St. George and St. Ioannes Vazelonos, and arguably the most famous and highly regarded of all, the monastery of Panagia Soumela.\n\nDuring the 19th century hundreds of schools were constructed by Pontic Greek communities in the Trebizond Vilayet, giving the region one of the highest literacy rates in the Ottoman Empire. The Greeks of Of and Caykara, who according to Ottoman tax records converted to Islam during the 17th century, were also recognized for their educational facilities. Teachers from the Of-valley provided education for thousands of Anatolian Sunni and Sufi students in home schools and small madrassas. Some of these schools taught Pontic Greek alongside Arabic (and to a lesser extent Persian or Ottoman Turkish as well). Although Atatürk banned these madrassas during the early republican period, some of them remained functioning until the second half of the 20th century because of their remote location. The effects of this educational heritage continue to this day, with many prominent religious figures, scientists and politicians coming from the areas influenced by the Naqshbandi Sufi orders of Pontic Greek extraction in Of, Caykara and Rize, among them president Erdogan, whose family originates from the village of Potamia.\n\nPontian music retains elements of the musical traditions of Ancient Greece, Byzantium, and the Caucasus (especially from the region of Kars). Possibly there is an underlying influence from the native peoples who lived in the area before the Greeks as well, but this is not clearly established.\n\nMusical styles, like language patterns and other cultural traits, were influenced by the topography of Pontos. The mountains and rivers of the area impeded communication between Pontian Greek communities and caused them to develop in different ways. Also significant in the shaping of Pontian music was the proximity of various non-Greek peoples on the fringes of the Pontic area. For this reason we see that musical style of the east Pontos has significant differences from that of the west or southwest Pontos. The Pontian music of Kars, for example, shows a clear influence from the music of the Caucasus and elements from other parts of Anatolia. The music and dances of Turks from Black Sea region are very similar to Greek Pontic and some songs and melodies are common. Except for certain laments and ballads, this music is played primarily to be danced to.\n\nAn important part of Pontic music is the Acritic songs, heroic or epic poetry set to music that emerged in the Byzantine Empire, probably in the 9th century. These songs celebrated the exploits of the Akritai, the frontier guards defending the eastern borders of the Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe most popular instrument in the Pontian musical collection is the kemenche or lyra, which is related closely with other bowed musical instruments of the medieval West, like the Kit violin and Rebec. Also important are other instruments such as the Angion or Tulum (a type of Bagpipe), the davul, a type of drum, the Shiliavrin, and the Kaval or Ghaval (a flute-like pipe).\n\nThe zurna existed in several versions which varied from region to region, with the style from Bafra sounding differently due to its bigger size. The Violin was very popular in the Bafra region and all throughout west Pontos. The Kemane, an instrument closely related to the one of Cappadocia, was highly popular in southwest Pontos and with the Pontian Greeks who lived in Cappadocia. Finally worth mentioning are the Defi (a type of tambourine), Outi and in the region of Kars, the clarinet.\n\nPontian dance retains aspects of Persian and Greek dance styles. The dances called Horoi/Choroi (), singular Horos/Choros (Chorus) (), meaning literally \"Dance\" in both Ancient Pontian and Modern Greek languages, are circular in nature and each is characterized by distinct short steps. A unique aspect of Pontian dance is the tremoulo (), which is a fast shaking of the upper torso by a turning of the back on its axis. Like other Greek dances, they are danced in a line and the dancers form a circle. Pontian dances also resemble Persian and Middle Eastern dances because they are not led by a single dancer. The most renowned Pontian dances are Tik (dance), Serra, Maheria or Pyrecheios, Kotsari and Omal.\n\nPontic cuisine specialities include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44879716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44879716", "title": "Postdictable", "text": "Postdictable\n\nPostdictable concepts are those concepts that can be justified after having been seen. Upal labeled a counterintuitive concept as postdictable if the postdiction process is successful making sense of the concept i.e., the reader is successfully able to construct a justification given the reader's background knowledge, level of motivation and interest, and the cognitive resources (including time) available to the reader. According to the Context-based model of minimal counterintuiveness, postdictable counterintuitive concepts are minimally counterintuitive and are remembered well. Those counterintuitive concepts that are not postdictable in a given context are considered to be maximally counterintuitive and are not remembered well by people. Thus the concept of a flying elephant is postdictable (and thus minimally counterintuitive) when set up in the context of Operation Dumbo Drop because it can be justified in that context. The concept of a \"square triangle that only exists on Wednesdays and eats cats\" however does not make any sense and is therefore not postdictable.\n\n"}
{"id": "14098814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14098814", "title": "S'gaw people", "text": "S'gaw people\n\nThe S'gaw,( or ) also known as Skaw, S'gaw, S'gau, White Karen, Paganyaw, Pgaz Cgauz and Pakayo, are an ethnic group of Burma and Thailand. They speak the S'gaw Karen language.\n\nThe S'gaw are a subgroup of the Karen people. They are also referred to by the exonym \"White Karen\", a term dating from colonial times and used in contrast to the Karenni (or \"Red Karen\") and the Pa'O (or \"Black Karen\"), even though the latter often rejected the term \"Karen\" to refer to themselves.\n\nThe S'gaw live primarily in eastern Burma (Karen State, Mon state, Karenni state). Many of them migrate to Thai-Burmese border and live there as a refugees for many decades due to conflict in Karen state. S'gaw people are the founder of the Karen National Union (KNU).\n\nKaren (S'gaw and Pwo) legend refer to a 'river of running sand' () which they believe Pu Taw Meh Pa led the Karen people across the river of the running sand. Many Karen think this refers to the Gobi Desert, although they have lived in Burma for centuries. The legend made the Karen people believe that they're from Mongolia.\n\n"}
{"id": "20991877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20991877", "title": "Sakhial", "text": "Sakhial\n\nA Muslim Rajput tribe, found mainly in Mirpur District of Azad Kashmir. The own a group of villages including Kathar Dilawar in Dadyal, Mirpur District.\n\n"}
{"id": "33174733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33174733", "title": "Sohail Sangi", "text": "Sohail Sangi\n\nSohail Sangi is a senior journalist and activist of the leftist movement in Pakistan, presently working with the daily newspaper \"Dawn\". He is one of the visiting faculty of the Mass Communication Department at the University of Sindh.\n\nSohail was born in village Janjhi of Tharparkar district in 1953. He did his M.A in English from University of Sindh Jamshoro in seventies. He was activist of left wing students organisation Sindh National Students Federation during student life.\n\nHe joined journalism in mid seventies. He was one of the pioneers of Daily \"Sindh News\" which was published under the editorship of Sheikh Aziz in 1975 and later, also worked with Daily Ibrat, Daily Safeer, Daily Awami Awaz, and Daily Kawish.\n\nAlso worked with weekly Bedari and weekly Sachai with Ali Hassan.\nHe was founder of Daily Awami Awaz the first computerised newspaper of Sindhi language and Weekly Arsee. Sangi wrote and translated half a dozen books on different topics.\n\nHis reputation is for pioneer of resistance journalism in Sindh.\nSangi was arrested in July 1980 and he along with Jam Saqi, Prof Jamal Naqvi, Badar Abro, Kamal Warsi and Shabbir Shar was tried by Special Military court in 1982-83 for bringing socialist revolution in Pakistan. He was declared Prisoner of Conscience by Amnesty International in 1984. Later was released in 1985. After his release he joined Daily Aftab Hyderabad.\n\nApart from other contribution, he brought progressive activists in Sindhi media.\n\nHe had been freelance contributor of BBC Urdu.\n\n"}
{"id": "2180315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2180315", "title": "Sybil Stockdale", "text": "Sybil Stockdale\n\nSybil Bailey Stockdale (November 25, 1924 – October 10, 2015) was the wife of an American Vietnam War Navy pilot who became a prisoner of war. Sybil then became a co-founder and National Coordinator of the National League of Families, a nonprofit organization that worked on behalf of American Vietnam-era Missing in Action and Prisoner of War Families. In her capacity as national coordinator for the League, she also served as its liaison to the White House and the Department of Defense.\n\nStockdale is credited with helping to better publicize the mistreatment of US prisoners by North Vietnam and for helping to improve American policies concerning the treatment and handling of POW families. Stockdale is the recipient of the Navy Distinguished Public Service Award, the highest award given by the Department of the Navy to a citizen not employed by the Department. She is the only wife of an active-duty officer ever to have been so honored.\n\nStockdale was also the co-author, along with her husband, of the book \"In Love and War: the Story of a Family's Ordeal and Sacrifice During the Vietnam War\".\n\nHer husband, James Bond Stockdale, was a recipient of the Medal of Honor for bravery in war, and after his release at the end of the war, was eventually promoted to Vice Admiral and by the time of his death in 2005 was one of the United States' most honored and decorated military veterans in the post-WWII era. He was present at the August 4, 1964 Gulf of Tonkin Incident, spent 7-1/2 years under torture as a POW in North Vietnam, later became President of The Citadel, and eventually ran for Vice-President of the United States with Ross Perot heading the ticket.\n\nWhen Sybil Stockdale's husband James was shot down in 1965 over North Vietnam, the US government had a \"keep-quiet\" policy, asking relatives of POWs to not raise a fuss about mistreatment of prisoners. The official reason was not that the prisoners were not being tortured, but bad publicity might result in worse treatment.\n\nAfter a year of abiding by the government \"keep-quiet\" policy, Sybil found herself more and more disenchanted with the pretense that prisoners like her husband were treated fairly; James had been tortured, had inflicted serious wounds on himself to convince his captors they could not break or use him, and had spent years in solitary confinement.\n\nIn the summer of 1966, Sybil along with other members of a San Diego POW / MIA support group decided to go national, and formed the National League of Families of American Prisoners Missing in Southeast Asia. Sybil was the first national coordinator. Other support groups from east coast military communities later became part of the National League.\n\nWithin a year she was sitting in the office of the Secretary Of Defense Melvin Laird discussing policy. The Nixon Administration had ended the \"keep quiet\" policy and allegations of torture of US prisoners became fully public, with Sybil a forceful spokeswoman.\n\nSybil Stockdale co-wrote a memoir with her husband James (who also wrote a number of books on his own). \"In Love and War: the Story of a Family's Ordeal and Sacrifice During the Vietnam War\" was the most popular book written by either of the Stockdales.\n\nIn the book James and Sybil Stockdale wrote alternating chapters describing their experiences of the Vietnam war, James wrote of his experiences as a POW, and Sybil wrote of her experiences as the wife of a POW, dealing with the stress and waiting at home and her journey cutting through Washington red tape and publicizing the plight of American POWs in Vietnam.\n\nNBC adapted the book into a made-for-television movie that had 45 million viewers.\n\nOn May 10, 2008, Sybil Stockdale attended a christening ceremony at Bath Iron Works in Bath, Maine for the USS Stockdale, the 30th Arleigh Burke Class Destroyer, and the 56th ship of the class.\n\nFour Medal of Honor recipients and seven former prisoners of war attended the ceremony that marked a milestone in construction of the 9,200-ton ship named for her late husband.\n\nSybil Stockdale was born in New Haven, Connecticut. She held an undergraduate degree from Mount Holyoke College, and a master's degree in education from Stanford University. Jim and Sybil Stockdale have four sons, Jim, Sid, Stanford and Taylor. She died at SHARP hospital in Coronado, California on October 10, 2015 from Parkinson's disease, at the age of 90.\n\n"}
{"id": "27826482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27826482", "title": "The Invisible Generation", "text": "The Invisible Generation\n\nThe Invisible Generation was a contemporary art project conceived by artist Per Hüttner and Curator Daniele Balit and organized by Vision Forum and created new meeting places between art and its audiences. A great number of projects were realized in Melbourne, Shenzhen, Beijing and Kiev in 2009-2010. For each city the program and artist list was totally new. No project was ever repeated twice. The project always allowed the audience to meet art in new and unexpected situations and played with or confused the audiences’ expectations about what art is, where it normally appears and what shape it should take.\n\nMost projects were realized in contexts where the audience does not necessarily expect to find artwork. In the metro (Dinu Li, Per Hüttner), in a newspaper office (Yan Jun), on a public square (Natasha Rosling) or even contained as a story in the mind of a person in a shop (Good TV). In other instances the project played with the perceived immutability of the artwork. The audience was asked to actively create or re-create artwork (The Anti-Hospital), remove or destroy drawings (Jean-François Robardet), bring books to be changed (Private Contractors) or in some cases it was disguised as an informative poster, graffity or political propaganda (Huang Xiaopeng, Per Hüttner).\n\nThe inspiration and title is taken from a text by William S. Burroughs where he describes a series of situation where a tape recorder is used to create new forms of meeting between people and new forms of engagement with the media.\n\nThe first part of The Invisible Generation opened to the public in Australia in September 2009. The presentation was co-curated by Hüttner and Balit. It was introduced at the Margaret Lawrence Gallery which was also the starting point for a number of interventions in the public space of the city. In the gallery were two major installations presented: Do Not Go Gentle Court by Per Hüttner and Polka Dot by French artist Mark Geffriaud. The two works redefine the gallery experience through reflections on the fabric of space and time. Being situated at the boundaries between installation and performance, they delineated a space that was the starting point for the Anti-Hospital, an open-ended and evolving platform which formed the core of the project. The Anti-Hospital was designed by Melbourne-based collective Greatest Hits and focused around a collection of artistic documents providing instructions that were formulated as possible actions, performances, temporary artworks, objects and social situations, scores and sonic interventions proposed by absent artists and realized by local artists, non-artists and visitors to the gallery. Greatest Hits created a dozen videos that enacted, played with and read out the instructions and together created a sort of manual to aid and inspire the visitor to relate to them. Many instructions were interpreted, primarily by local artists while the exhibition was open to the public.\n\nFor the period of the exhibition the Anti-Hospital also coordinated a series of events, performances, actions, workshops and ways of disseminating the instructions through the media and the urban space of Melbourne including, local artists, students and a program on the screen and LEDs at Federation Square. This included the controversial project “Young Dictators” conceived and realized by Per Hüttner with two local students. The three put up 2000 copies of A4 sized posters around the city showing images of dictators such as Adolf Hitler, Saddam Hussein and Joseph Stalin as children with the text “Have you seen this child? Please contact 0432 027 925” (Hüttner’s mobile number).\n\nWhere the presentation in Melbourne focused on the relationship between suspended instructions in the gallery and interventions in the public space, the project in Shenzhen consisted mostly of unannounced performances in the public space and hosted by the contemporary art museum OCAT. The shift in political, economical, social and architectural context also meant the dynamics of the project changed greatly and made the participation of the local audience more difficult to achieve, but all the more successful on the occasions where it happened. Presentations included carnivalesque costumes appearing in public space as temporary and wearable architectural elements by Natasha Rosling. Yang Zhifei carried a giant white pillow through the streets of the city and she let an army of people sleep in public spaces, each with a normally sized pillow under their head. She also organized a dream workshop to compare the dreams of the Chinese with those of the Dutch. Dinu Li created a choreography of corruption and guilt on the Shenzhen underground provoking fear in the audience and laying bare how deep inside the psyches of its citizens a totalitarian government can reach. Neno Belchev designed a portable zebra crossings to facilitate jaywalking, a passion shared by the Chinese and Bulgarians.\n\nThe events in Beijing took place over a whole year and culminated in a large presentation at Ullens Center for Contemporary Art in June 2010 Presentations kicked off with summer 2009 with Jon Phillips and Matt Hope’s speaker event \"Laoban Sound System\" in conjunction with Ai Weiwei’s day without internet. The two has since launched a range of events in Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong. Other events included Yan Jun’s sonic material slipped into the desk drawers at Beijing Youth Weekly editorial office and interviews from the same newspaper that were replayed and perverted over 6 weeks. Good TV collected memories of images that had been lost for different reasons. collection of lost images retold by storytellers in their everyday life in the Wudaoying Hutong (五道营胡同). The Beijing context and the proximity to the centre of political power allowed “This Image Is No More” to develop another layer of interpretation which had been lacking in its realization in Europe. Both Natasha Rosling and Yang Zhifei created versions of their projects from Shenzhen in Beijing. Especially the giant white pillow carried through the streets the Chinese capital to mirrored its grandiose buildings in ways that also inspired interesting reactions among the unassuming audience.\n\nIn November Yulia Usova and PAI organised a series of talks in Kiev that approached issues such as curation and art in public spaces and included speakers such as Olesya Turkina, Olav Westphalen and Karen MacDonald. In conjunction with this a group of students from Kungliga Konsthögskolan in Stockholm made a series of improvised performances at Les Kurbas’ Theater Center. A large part of the project took place during the swine flu epidemic in Ukraine all public theatre events were stopped and schools closed giving the whole event a very special flavour.\n\nThe actual project was scheduled to be realized in April 2010, but had to be cancelled due to the volcanic ash cloud that prevented air travel in Europe at the given time and only web-performances were undertaken. The project was realized 19 June and 2–4 July 2010 and was co-curated by Per Hüttner and Yulia Usova. The project saw a meeting between artists from China, Western Europe and Ukraine. Rumours claim that artists met with great problems with local authorities including arrests, theft by undercover policemen and that the artists had to bribe officials to be able to leave the country.\n\nSince most of the events in The Invisible Generation only had an unexpecting audience, the organizers present the documentation of the project in various art institutions around the world, including UCCA in Beijing and Norrköpings Konstmuseum in Sweden. Vision Forum has also published an extensive catalogue about The Invisible Generation in 2011. It was edited by Gerrie van Noord and includes all the original instructions presented in Melbourne. The publication also contains texts by Daniele Balit, Per Hüttner, Olav Westphalen and incidentally contains a reproduction of this page. The book is framed by three texts by the editor, Gerrie van Noord where she reflects on the difficulty and necessity of mediating projects ephemeral projects like The Invisible Generation.\n\nMark Geffriaud, Natasha Rosling Jon Phillips and Matt Hope, Neno Belchev, Yang Zhifei, Anne Klontz, Per Hüttner, Dinu Li, Hu Xiangqian, Josefin Wikström and Sarah Kim, Good TV, Yan Jun, Oksana Chepelyk, Oksana Plysyuk, Huang Xiaopeng, Oleg Chorny and Gena Khmaruk, Alexander Kokhanovsky, Jean-François Robardet, Klas Eriksson, Gang Don, TanzLaboratorium, PRIVATE CONTRACTORS (Olav Westphalen and Per Hüttner), Pauline Curnier Jardin and Volodymyr Karashevskyi.\n\nA Constructed World, Åsa Ersmark, Anna Scalfi, Carlo Steiner, Chen Wei, Chi Wo Leung, Christophe Bruno, Dinu Li, Etienne Cliquet, Gerrie van Noord, Hristina Ivanoska, Jean-Francois Robardet, Karen MacDonald, Kent Hanssen, Kylie Wilkinson, Natalia Kamia, Natalie Thomas, Pauline Curnier Jardin, Per Hüttner, Riccardo Benassi, Rik Bas Backer, Samon Takahashi, Seth Cluett, Veronica Kent and Sean Peoples, Yan Jun, James Webb, The Grossi Maglioni Magic Duo, Harriet Kate Morgan/Joint Hassles, USERNAME and Jon Phillips.\n\nThe following people have also participated in the various programs and events of the TIG in Melbourne: Amy Johannes, Kay Abude, Laura Whitfield, Ann Fuata, Jethro Harcourt, Lisa Imai, Alesh Macak, Pip Ryan, Sherry McLane Alejos, Kellie Wells, Nick Tammens, Sarah Haywood, Natalie Thomas, Kylie Wilkinson, Alex Rizkalla and Julie Davies.\n\n"}
{"id": "33191993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33191993", "title": "Togoyo language", "text": "Togoyo language\n\nTogoyo (Togoy) is an extinct Ubangian language of South Sudan.\n"}
{"id": "63687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63687", "title": "Tramp", "text": "Tramp\n\nA tramp is a long-term homeless person who travels from place to place as a vagrant, traditionally walking all year round. The word \"tramp\" became a common way to refer to such people in 19th-century Britain and America.\n\nTramp is derived from a Middle English verb meaning to \"walk with heavy footsteps\" (\"cf.\" modern English \"trample\") and to go hiking.\n\nIn Britain the term was widely used to refer to vagrants in the early Victorian period. The social reporter Henry Mayhew refers to it in his writings of the 1840s and 1850s. By 1850 the word was well established. In that year Mayhew described \"the different kinds of vagrants or tramps\" to be found in Britain, along with the \"different trampers' houses in London or the country\". He distinguished several types of tramps, ranging from young people fleeing from abusive families, through to people who made their living as wandering beggars and prostitutes.\nIn the United States, the word became frequently used during the American Civil War, to describe the widely shared experience of undertaking long marches, often with heavy packs. Use of the word as a noun is thought to have begun shortly after the war. A few veterans had developed a liking for the \"call of the road\". Others may have been too traumatised by war time experience to return to settled life.\n\nWanderers have existed since ancient times. The modern concept of the \"tramp\" emerges with the expansion of industrial towns in the early nineteenth century, with the consequent increase in migrant labor and pressure on housing. The common lodging house or \"doss house\" developed to accommodate transients. Urbanisation also led to an increase in forms of highly marginalized casual labor. Mahew identifies the problem of \"tramping\" as a particular product of the economic crisis of the 1840s known as the Hungry Forties. John Burnett argues that in earlier periods of economic stability \"tramping\" involved a wandering existence, moving from job to job which was a cheap way of experiencing adventures beyond the \"boredom and bondage of village life\". \nThe number of transient homeless people increased markedly in the U.S. after the industrial recession of the early 1870s. Initially, the term \"tramp\" had a broad meaning, and was often used to refer to migrant workers who were looking for permanent work and lodgings. Later the term acquired a narrower meaning, to refer only to those who prefer the transient way of life. Writing in 1877 Allan Pinkerton said:\n\n\"The tramp has always existed in some form or other, and he will continue on his wanderings until the end of time; but there is no question that he has come into public notice, particularly in America, to a greater extent during the present decade than ever before.\"\n\nAuthor Bart Kennedy, a self-described tramp of 1900 America, once said \"I listen to the tramp, tramp of my feet, and wonder where I was going, and why I was going.\" John Sutherland (1989) said that Kennedy \"is one of the early advocates of 'tramping', as the source of literary inspiration.\"\n\nThe tramp became a character trope in vaudeville performance in the late 19th century in the United States. Lew Bloom claimed he was \"the first stage tramp in the business\".\n\nWhile tramps may do odd jobs from time to time, unlike other temporarily homeless people they do not seek out regular work and support themselves by other means such as begging or scavenging (see Waste picker). This is in contrast to:\n\nBoth terms, \"tramp\" and \"hobo\" (and the distinction between them), were in common use between the 1880s and the 1940s. Their populations and the usage of the terms increased during the Great Depression. Like \"hobo\" and \"bum,\" the word \"tramp\" is considered vulgar in American English usage, having been subsumed in more polite contexts by words such as \"homeless person\" or \"vagrant.\" At one time, tramps were known euphemistically in England and Wales as \"gentlemen of the road.\"\n\nPerhaps because female tramps were often regarded as prostitutes, the term tramp came to be used to refer to a promiscuous woman. This is largely an Americanism and not in global usage. According to Australian linguist Kate Burridge, the term shifted towards this meaning in the 1920s, having previously predominantly referred to men, it followed the path of other similar gender neutral words (such as \"slag\") to having specific reference to female sexual laxity.\n\nThe word is also used, with ambiguous irony, in the classic 1937 Rodgers and Hart song \"The Lady Is a Tramp\", which is about a wealthy member of New York high society who chooses a vagabond life in \"hobohemia\". Other songs with implicit or explicit reference to this usage include \"The Son of Hickory Holler's Tramp\" and \"Gypsys, Tramps & Thieves\". The use of the word with the explicitly sexual meaning is especially common in hip hop culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13994972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13994972", "title": "Vezo people", "text": "Vezo people\n\nThe Vezo is the term the semi-nomadic coastal people of southern Madagascar use to refer to people that have become accustomed to live from sea fishing. The Vezo speak a dialect of the Malagasy language, which is a branch of the Malayo-Polynesian language group derived from the Barito languages, spoken in southern Borneo. They currently populate most of the littoral zone along Madagascar’s west coast between Toliara and Mahajanga.\n\n\"Vezo\" literally means the people who fish, but also has been known to mean 'to struggle with the sea'.\n\nVezo do not identify with a particular Malagasy ethnic group but instead with their way of life. They currently populate most of the littoral zone along Madagascar’s west coast between Toliara and Mahajanga. Like most other Madagascan ethnic groups, their origins can directly be traced to Asia. They have been known to state emphatically that they need have no common origin or shared essence with one another. Their identity is contextual and achieved by doing, embodied in learned skills such as fishing or swimming and the callouses they produce, rather than in blood, genes, or skin color. Because of their semi-nomadic marine migrations, their population is difficult to determine and has been estimated by counting the dugout canoes called pirogues (\"lakanas\" in Malagasy language) around Madagascar.\n\nThere are two parts to this history which are relevant to the Vezo view of the environment – how and why the original clans of Andavadoaka left their former village and how they came to choose the site that is now Andavadoaka.\nThe three clans that established Andavadoaka relocated to avoid the regular invasion by bandits. Marauders from inland tribes regularly attacked the old village a few kilometres north. As pacifists, the Vezo rarely defend their property and are often attacked by others. The villagers wanted an end to these attacks so used their knowledge of local fish to catch poisonous lionfish and gobies, which they cooked and scattered around the village just before the expected attack. After preparing the poison trap, the villagers sailed in their pirogues to the outlying islands to hide from the bandits. Expecting an empty village, knowing the Vezo always flee from attacks, the unsuspecting bandits arrived and ate the food that had been left behind. Many of the bandits died. On returning the villagers saw the corpses of the poisoned bandits and referred to them as those who had died from eating lionfish (moroy), and from then on referred to the village as the ‘dead of moroy’ or ‘Tratna amy moroy.’ The name of the village to this day is Antsatsamoroy.\n\nAttacks by bandits continue today. In December 2003 to January 2004, March and October 2005 and March to May 2006, cattle rustlers, dahalo or malaso, threatened villagers and stole cattle at pastures in the spiny forest, inland from the village. There have been incidents involving local villagers – one was fatally wounded by shooting after pursuing the armed malaso in the aftermath of a village raid. On each occasion, many of the Vezo villagers put their valuables in their pirogues and send women and children to the outlying islands for safety (in particular, Nosy Hao and Nosy Ve) – sometimes almost completely depopulating the village.\n\nThe second part of Andavadoaka’s history – how the clans came to choose Andavadoaka – relates to the local landscape. Tired with attacks, the villagers sought a location hidden from both land and sea, where it would be harder for marauders to encounter the village by chance. Their chosen site was a depression in-between surrounding limestone outcrops, on the flattened sand dunes of a sheltered bay. The description given to the location of the village was the depression (lavaka) between the hills. To the east of the village there is a hill riddled with tunnels. The question, ‘lavaka aiza?’ (where is the hole?), and the answer, ‘lavaka loaka’ (the hole is in the rock), provided the name for the village – ‘Andavadoaka’.\n\nVezo-ness is this process of transformation. It is an identity that unfolds through time, rather than being fixed in time.\nThe Vezo are a fishing people who inhabit a coastal belt extending from Intampolo in the south to Morondava in the north of southwest Madagascar. Andavadoaka is a village whose population are of the Vezo tribe. It has a population of 1,200, with over 50% under 15 years of age. Household income is mainly from fishing. Fishermen make use of mangroves for timber, wood, and fishing. The fishers participate in an artisanal fishery reliant on pirogues (canoes, made by hollowing out a large log) powered by sail and paddle, and most fishing occurs 5 km or less from shore. Men predominantly fish with line, nets, and spears. Women glean the reef flats for invertebrates including octopus and sea cucumbers. Fish sales, processing and trade supplement local income, as does tourism and local commerce.\n\nThe Vezo traditionally traded with the neighbouring agro-foresters, the Masikoro. The Vezo also trade with the Mikea, exchanging fish for honey and tubers. However, increased trade has changed the economy from barter to cash-based. Furthermore, growth in fish export from Madagascar has encouraged fish processing and export companies to the region, such as Murex and Copefrito (now operating in the southwest). Their purchases of marine products have increased fish demand and strengthened the cash economy.\nBesides gleaning the reef flats, women are the ones who sell the catches that men bring them. With what they earn, women buy rice, the staple food, other essential foodstuff and a variety of luxury items.\nChildren go to school in the one village school building, where there are two designated teachers. However, due to the deterioration\nof public administration in Madagascar, the building and the teachers are hardly ever occupied. Whenever children are in the building, and if the teacher has not run out of chalk, the teaching largely consists in copying letters, numbers, and short sentences from the blackboard onto the child's own A5 size blackboard. Understandably, the many children who do not own a blackboard are allowed to play in the burning heat outside.\n\nFamily ties are extremely important among the Vezo and elders are greatly respected in the community. Families often provide for each other with younger members building boats for the elderly to use. Maintaining family ties is important to ensure that one is looked after in old age, or after an accident or ill health. Family relationships are particularly important to Vezo fishers because they determine access to marine resources and fishing gear.\n\nThe Hazomanga is an elder in a family or clan who acts as the intermediary between the ancestors and his family member. His responsibilities include overseeing ceremonies and consulting the ancestors for advice when needed. The most senior village Hazomanga in Andavadoaka is also the village historian and is a member of one of the three founding clans of Andavadoaka. He attends village events when the community considers them to require the permission or consideration of the ancestors. The Hazomanga douses the ground in rum during each consultation with the ancestors. If an occasion is particularly important, local cattle, zebu, may be sacrificed.\n\nThe Vezo have official cultural ceremonies called Fomba. These include Bilo, Tromba, Savatse, Takasy and Soro. All these ceremonies, except Takasy, are practiced (with some variations) by the neighbouring inland Masikoro people.\n\nThe circumcision ceremony typically lasts from 4 am until 9 am. The parents ask a wise elder to suggest the best date and time for the ceremony, and identify a nurse or doctor who knows how to perform the circumcision. Family members are invited to attend the ceremony, and one of the uncles holds the child during the ceremony. After the physical cut, there is drinking of alcohol. After the ceremony the child is called savatse.\n\nThe community life of the Vezo, as elsewhere in Madagascar, is guided by numerous \"fady\" (taboos). During the course of the life of a Vezo man, he is exposed to the danger of catching hanimboky, a very unpleasant disease that only affects men. The sickness literally means swollen/full with food, which makes it considered thus a male pregnancy. A man sick with hanimboky is unable to go the bathroom and this causes his stomach to swell up until it resembles the belly of a pregnant woman. The illness is caused by food that the male kin of a sexually active woman accepted and ate from her. The food is said to be dirty, for it is assumed that the woman had acquired it with 'tangy', the presents her lover gives her for having sex with him. When a man accepts food from one of his female kin, it is therefore as if he were receiving food from the woman's lover; if a man accepted such food, he would be put in a very inferior position. In essence, they are treated as if they were women by their daughter's or sister's lover.\n\nIt is also \"fady\" to spill the turtle’s blood on the sand.\n\nVezo cemeteries lie in the forest, far away from the villages and are so well hidden by the vegetation that they are considered \"invisible to the eye\". The cemeteries must be hidden in this way because the sight of tombs makes the people sad and unhappy. Cemeteries are not places the Vezo like to visit very often. One does not simply go for a stroll near the cemetery. The living only approach a cemetery when they bear a corpse or when they have to \"work\" for the dead, such as digging graves and building tombs.\n\nIn western Madagascar, Sakalava and Vezo funerary sculpture is renowned internationally for its erotic wooden figures, often depicted during copulation and showing oversized phalluses and breasts. It is unknown as to why the sculptures have this sort of eroticism, but it may have to do with meeting growing tourist demand.\n\nEven after their ancestors have passed, the Vezo keep them involved in many different affairs. Many events in the productive, reproductive and social life of any Vezo family require that the dead be promptly informed, for example if one intends to move to a temporary fishing location, if one is moving into a newly built house or is launching a new canoe, if one is having a difficult birth or if a newborn is brought out of the house for the first time, if one is about to sit a school exam, if difficult words have been spoken which make people’s heart heavy with anger, if the visiting anthropologist arrives or leaves, and so on. It is the responsibility of the senior head of the family to call the dead and talk to them, asking for their protection or their forgiveness, and ensuring that they are kept well informed of life’s events – for whenever the dead have reasons to be “surprised,\" they will want to ask questions, thereby causing trouble for the living.\n\nThe dead communicate with their living descendants through the dreams that they induce in them. This is because when a person dies, the breathing stops, the body becomes stiff, cold and soon begins to stink and to decompose. But when a person dies, the ‘spirit’ – known as fanahy up to the moment of death – permanently departs from the body. In its new disembodied, ghostly form, the spirit – now known as angatse – is invisible, and moves around like wind. To be seen by living people, it enters their dreams, where it appears together with its original uncorrupted body, just as it was when the person was alive.\n\nThe Vezo speak a dialect of the Malagasy language, which is a branch of the Malayo-Polynesian language group derived from the Barito languages, spoken in southern Borneo.\n\nOff the coast of Madagascar, overfishing has become a major issue. The Vezo rely entirely on fishing, who for the past 2,000 years have been navigating the stretch of the Indian Ocean that separates Madagascar from the African continent in hand-carved pirogues. Increasingly, commercial boats, mostly from Asia and Europe, are fishing those same waters. Thus, it is difficult for the traditional fishermen to compete in the market. In response, many Vezo have resorted to fishing hundreds of miles offshore, spending six to nine months a year in rough and dangerous waters in search of sharks and sea cucumbers, both in high demand in Asian seafood markets. Some bring their families and all their possessions and set up camp on sandbars far from civilization.\n\nFishermen believe that the current fishing practices have to change by keeping successful skills, removing destructive fishing practices and adopting new fishing technologies. The lack of a system allowing local users to have a shared assessment of the fishing conditions and to define a common vision is the main problem for Vezo traditional fishers. They are so good at tracking the changes in fish catches over time and have a better understanding of the multiple uses of the available habitats but when it comes to pooling their knowledge into one system, they just can not make it by themselves. This shows that traditional ways of solving problems have failed to make its way to modern days. Traditional leaders used to play an important role in preserving wealth of the community by providing guidance to resource users according to the best available judgment. This role has been weakened by several factors including his social status.\n\nEven worse, there is no significant improvement of household revenue in short term by setting up a marine reserve, it is hoped that the approach is likely to bring a much bigger impact on targeted fisheries in a mid and long term exploitation. From a biological point of view, a larger female octopus for example tends to lay many more eggs than young ones. By providing a few more months to grow in a closed fishing ground, it allows octopus individuals to get to bigger sizes.\n\nThe Vezo have a long history of subsistence turtle exploitation and associated cultural traditions. By local law, turtles are protected under Decree 24 passed in 1923, but this law has seldom been enforced. The low reproductive potential and delayed sexual maturity of turtles make all species unsuitable for intensive harvest. Even as far back as the early twentieth century, it has been reported that turtles play an important role to Malagasy fisheries. There has been a decline in numbers of the hawksbill turtle and the disappearance of nesting populations. The raiding of the turtle nests and hunting for the meat and carapaces are believed to be the fundamental causes of decline for four of the five species in the region.\n\nA number of interventions are being undertaken to restore fish stocks and sustain the Vezo way of life. ReefDoctor is a key NGO in this effort and has an ongoing programme that aims to enhance fish biodiversity and biomass by the introduction of artificial habitats.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27155419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27155419", "title": "Wilbur Underhill Jr.", "text": "Wilbur Underhill Jr.\n\nWilbur Underhill Jr. (March 16, 1901 – January 6, 1934), often called \"Mad Dog\" or the \"Tri-State Terror\", was an American criminal, burglar, bank robber and Depression-era outlaw. He was one of the most wanted bandits in Oklahoma during the 1920s and 1930s and co-led a gang with Harvey Bailey that included many fellow Cookson Hills outlaws including Jim Clark, Ed Davis and Robert \"Big Bob\" Brady.\n\nWilbur Underhill Jr. was born Joplin, Missouri on March 16, 1901, one of seven children. His three older brothers Earl, George and Ernest all became career criminals, though none gained the notoriety of Wilbur, while his three sisters led law-abiding lives. When Underhill was 12 years old, his brother George killed a local peanut vendor and was sentenced to life imprisonment. Underhill began to show a wild streak soon afterwards though his mother claimed it was the result of a childhood accident that \"[didn't leave] him quite right\". He also changed the spelling of his given name from Wilber to Wilbur believing it sounded more manly.\n\nUnderhill committed his first criminal offense by stealing silverware from a neighbor's home. When questioned by police, he attempted to convince them that a stranger had given it to him. In 1918, he was convicted of burglary and spent four years in prison. A year after his release, Underhill became locally known as the \"Lovers Lane Bandit\". When his identity became known, after being caught by a police decoy, he was sent to the Missouri State Penitentiary for five years.\n\nUnderhill was released on parole in late 1926, and on Christmas Day he and Ike \"Skeet\" Akins robbed a drug store on Okmulgee, Oklahoma. In the course of the robbery, 19-year-old customer George Fee was killed. They were eventually arrested on January 7, 1927, and charged with murder and armed robbery. Underhill and Akins were still awaiting trial when they decided to escape from the Okmulgee jailhouse on January 30 with fellow inmates Red Gann and Duff Kennedy using smuggled hacksaws. While Underhill successfully eluded authorities, his partner was captured at Lamar, Missouri on February 9. Three days later, while being brought back to Okmulgee, Akins attempted another escape and was killed by Sheriff John Russell.\n\nA day after Akins' death, Underhill robbed a movie theater for $52 in Picher, Oklahoma. Confronted by Constable George Fuller, he grabbed Fuller's pistol and killed a deputized civilian, Earl O'Neal, before escaping. Underhill was finally caught in Panama on March 20 and taken to Okmulgee where he was convicted of the Fee murder and sentenced to life imprisonment on June 3, 1927.\n\nUnderhill made several attempts to escape from the Oklahoma State Penitentiary and finally succeeded on July 14, 1931. Twelve days later, Underhill purchased a car in Cherryvale, Kansas under the name Ralph Carraway and robbed a local theater of $300 that same day. The following month he recruited his young nephew, Frank Underhill, to join him on a new crime spree. On August 12, they robbed a Wichita gas station but got only $14.68. While leaving the scene of the robbery, Underhill crashed into another car and had to have it towed to a nearby garage and checked into a hotel.\n\nThe next day, Patrolman Merle Colver arrived at the hotel. He had been assigned to check Wichita hotels for suspicious guests and went to their room to question them. When he knocked on the door, Wilbur Underhill shot him 3 times in the head killing him instantly Fleeing on foot, Underhill became involved in a running gunfight with police. A 2-year-old boy was killed in the crossfire when police fired at Underhill. He was eventually stopped by a lucky shot to the neck. Wilbur Underhill was convicted with murder, earning him another life sentence, and was imprisoned in Lansing state prison on September 4, 1931. Frank Underhill was not charged and, apparently \"scared straight\" from his experience, never committed another criminal offense for the rest of his life.\n\nBy the early 1930s, Underhill had become one of the most notorious bandits in Oklahoma. While an inmate in Lansing, he participated in a mass escape with 10 other inmates using pistols smuggled in by Frank \"Jelly\" Nash and headed for Cookson Hills. Among those included in the jailbreak included fellow outlaws Harvey Bailey, Jim Clark, Frank Sawyer, Ed Davis and Robert \"Big Bob\" Brady on May 30, 1933. Many of these men later became members of the gang headed by himself and Bailey as they set off on a crime spree lasting a little over six months.\n\nAlmost two weeks after their escape, on June 16, he and Bailey led a robbery with several other men robbed a bank in Black Rock, Arkansas. The next day, Underhill and Bailey were among several fugitives wrongly named as participants in the Kansas City Massacre, a failed attempt to free Frank Nash from police custody, resulting in the deaths of Nash and the four lawmen guarding him. The gang continued its activities and robbed $11,000 from a bank in Clinton, Oklahoma. Two days later, Underhill apparently acted alone in a bank robbery in Canton, Kansas but rejoined the gang by the time the Bailey-Underhill Gang struck a bank in Kingfisher, Oklahoma on August 9, 1933.\n\nThree days after the Kingfisher robbery, Bailey was visiting Robert Shannon, father-in-law of Machine Gun Kelly, at his Texas ranch and safehouse when police and federal agents raided the property. Bailey had been passed ransom money from Kelly's kidnapping of oil tycoon Charles Urschel and wrongly convicted in the plot two months later.\n\nWith Bailey serving a life sentence, Underhill took charge of the gang. On October 6, he and several unidentified men robbed $3,000 from a bank in Baxter Springs, Kansas. These were followed by bank raids in Galena, Kansas and Stuttgart, Arkansas. On November 9, he and Ford Bradshaw raided an Okmulgee bank with a few other men and escaped with $13,000.\n\nUnderhill was now attracting national media attention. He had been called \"Mad Dog\" or the \"Tri-State Terror\" by several newspapers, one even dubbing him The Southwest Executioner, while authorities made efforts to go after them almost immediately following the Okmulgee heist. A special task force was formed, and included armored cars, and searching through Cookson Hills looking for him. On November 18, while the task force was still in Cookson Hills, Underhill presented himself at the courthouse in nearby Coalgate and applied for a marriage license under his own name. His fiancée, Hazel Jarrett Hudson, was a sister of the outlaw Jarrett brothers. As part of a wedding present for Hazel, Underhill and several others robbed a bank in Frankfort, Kentucky.\n\nFBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, reportedly frustrated with the lack of progress from Oklahoma authorities, assigned agent R.H. Colvin to the Underhill case. Colvin soon discovered that Underhill had given his wife's address in Oklahoma City to the minister who married them in order to receive their marriage certificate. Federal agents staked out the home and spotted the Underhills a week later. Agents at the scene called for reinforcements but, by the time they arrived, the newlyweds had left to celebrate their honeymoon. A few days later, police raided a farm near Konawa where they knew Underhill was staying. However, Underhill had passed them earlier on the highway and was able to escape before police realized their mistake.\n\nUnderhill and his gang continued to remain active in the area. Underhill, Jack Lloyd and Ralph Roe attempted to burglarize a bank in Harrah, Oklahoma on December 11, 1933, and robbed another bank in Coalgate two days later.\n\nOn December 26, 1933, Wilbur and Hazel Underhill were celebrating their honeymoon with Ralph Roe and his girlfriend Eva May Nichols at a rented cottage in Shawnee, Oklahoma. Four days later, a 24-man strike force including federal agents, state troopers and local police surrounded the house. The group was led by R.H. Colvin and Frank Smith, the latter a survivor of the Kansas City Massacre. When called on to surrender, Underhill began firing resulting in the task force returning fire.\n\nEva Nichols, an innocent woman, was killed in the gunfight and Underhill, barefoot and still in his underwear, ran from the house attempting to escape. He was hit five times before leaving the yard but ran for another 16 blocks before breaking into a furniture store and collapsing on one of the beds. Ralph Roe, also wounded, was taken into custody with Hazel Underhill. Underhill was taken to McAlester where he remained, handcuffed in his bed, at the prison hospital until his death on January 6, 1934. His last words were \"Tell the boys I'm coming home\".\n\nUnderhill's gang, led by Ford Bradshaw, led a raid into the small town of Vian and shot up the town in revenge for Underhill's capture. This accomplished little, especially with Underhill's death a week later, and the incident was used by newspapers to turn public opinion against the gang and within months Bradshaw and the others had been killed or apprehended.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16084490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16084490", "title": "Women in Mongolia", "text": "Women in Mongolia\n\nMongolian women had a higher social status than women in many other Asian societies, but were considered unable to herd cattle and possibly not horses. Only one woman, Toregene, became supreme ruler in between maturity of the elected chosen Khan following Genghis Khan's introduction of heredity possibly claimed by the Tatars he was last with, and four Khatuns shared governorship and regional powers with Khublai Khan.\n\nMany were herdswomen and mothers, but during the Middle Ages, some were women horse-archers and swordswomen, and Hun descendant sawkele impassioned women fighters were accepted but the Yassa while not prohibiting recommends them to commerce probably of their dairy produce or means them to kill rather than fight or as members of the Khuriltai, a Mongol governmental council.\n\nGenghis Khan's daughters were made army combat generals by him, including Altanqalan who made her husband separate from all his female friends respectively divorce all his wives. Some women were Mongol city commanders and khatuns and bekis in war for the rank of command in battle this gave, but khatuns were married to prolong the race.\n\nMongolian women have historically enjoyed a somewhat higher status than women from other East Asian cultures. Women in Mongolia played vital roles in the family and economic life. Some more elite women had more opportunities than poor women, yet the demanding lifestyle required all women to work. Each household member had responsibilities, yet those of women tended to be much greater loads. In many cultures, women were expected to run the domestic duties in a household, yet women in Mongolia also managed out of the home work such as taking care of animals, manufacturing dairy products, shearing wool, and tanning hides. Through their household work, women in elite ranks of society were able to further their roles in order to gain substantial amounts of power. Those less fortunate were unable to benefit from their domestic work. When the Mongol empire collapsed, poor women in society were unable to get any sort of proper health care or any opportunity for education and leisure.\n\nNomadic women in Mongolia have typically been those responsible for collecting buckets of water, cooking meals for the family, keeping livestock healthy, collecting wood for fires, nursing and raising children, making clothing, and generally keeping all domestic affairs in order.\n\nHistory has proved that the perception of Mongolian women today has revealed many contradictions. Many cultures that surround the Mongolian women are seen as subordinate to men; yet for Mongolian women today, they are dominated by noble womanhood. It is said that Mongolian women have traditionally had a higher degree of social positions and autonomy than women in the Islamic societies of Asia, China and Korea. For those women who were widowed or left because of husbands in the military, taking over their jobs was often a common compromise. Although this did take place in many Mongol societies, women were still considered subordinate to men. Women were also domestically restricted in what they were and were not allowed to take part in when their husbands were around. Firm actions of this subordination were taken place in daily activities such as women were only allowed to tend to sheep, yet men were responsible for horses- a lamb versus a stallion in generic historical terms.\n\nMongolian People's Republic is the period of Mongolian history which existed between 1924 and 1992 as a unitary sovereign socialist state in East Asia. It was ruled by the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party and maintained close links with the Soviet Union throughout its history.\n\nDuring this period, women in Mongolia obtained \"de jure\" equal rights.\nThey had universal participation in all levels of education. In 1985, 63% of students in higher educational establishments were women along with 58% of the students in secondary schools. During the time frame, there were 51% women workers and 49% male.\n\nEducated women began teaching and taking charge in the medicine department in 1979. These were both generally thought as the more female fields, and more than 60% of all doctors were female. Teaching was also predominantly a women’s job with 67% of all teachers in general schools and 33% of teachers in higher educational schools. Despite having formal legal equality, as in other socialist states, \"de facto\" women remained subordinated to men.\n\nWeddings in Mongolia are one of the most influential days of a man and woman's life together. Weddings are celebrated events that at times are even more important and births or deaths. In the past, history explains that Mongolian women were often married as young women of ages about 13 to 14. Boys were often married a bit older than women. In modern day, those with less money normally marry in their earlier 20s, while those more urban marry later in their 20s and 30s. Mongolians normally had arranged marriages and once a man is married he is not allowed to marry thereafter. Monogamy is practiced. Dating is not as common for those with less money such as herders, yet sex prior to marriage is practiced. When a woman gets married, normally she is expected to go and live with the grooms family. However, today nuclear families are becoming more common. When a womans husband passes away, it was not uncommon for her to marry her husband's brother. This is an old Mongolian tradition that is rarely practiced today. Marriage for Mongolians is normally a contract; an arrangement to meet the requirements of both families rather than religious events. Many marriages in Mongolia are between friends or coworkers, that way women were married into their own social status.\n\nTerms changed in 1921 when women were considered more of a value into economic growth for the population. A revolution began that year with determinations to bring women more into the public sphere. This was the first step in the states effort to promote population growth; a strong emphasis on women’s reproductive capacities. Women were pressured into having multiple children as part of their civic duties to the state.\n\nThe political alignment in Mongolia for women is the belief that women are discriminated against because they are women. Women also believe that they have little legitimacy when discussing political affairs with men. In the most traditional sense, in nomadic society, women were not allowed to partake in the formal political sphere as their decisions were limited to the household. The subordination from a man to a women in Mongolia came to an end in 1921. This granted women citizen rights. The new constitution also gave equal rights to all citizens of Mongolia without focus of origin, sex, gender, or beliefs. In 1924, Mongolian women were able to vote and potentially be elected as President. The Women's Federation was also founded which was funded by the state itself allowing more women to become more active participants in the political system. Although many actions were taken, there is still much to be said for women in the political system and desire for the equality they would eventually like to have and deserve.\n\n (Data as of June 1989.)\n\n"}
{"id": "8156602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8156602", "title": "Women in warfare (1500–1699)", "text": "Women in warfare (1500–1699)\n\nActive warfare throughout history has mainly been a matter for men, but women have also played a role, often a leading one. While women rulers conducting warfare was common, women who participated in active warfare were rare. The following list of prominent women in war and their exploits from about 1500 AD up to about 1700 AD.\n\nOnly women active in direct warfare, such as warriors, spies, and women who actively led armies are included in this list.\n\nFor women in warfare in what is now the United States during this time period, see Timeline of women in war in the United States, Pre-1945.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7276900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7276900", "title": "Yahya ibn al-Qasim", "text": "Yahya ibn al-Qasim\n\nYahya III ibn al-Qasim () was the eighth Idrisid ruler and sultan of Morocco. He took over after the death of Ali II in 880. He died in 904.\n\nHe was nicknamed al-Kettani or the one related to linen, \"Kettan\" in Arabic. This nickname was a result of him ordering his troops in Tlemcen to use linen made tents. His descendants are the Kettani family, which is well known in Morocco.\n"}
{"id": "3152275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3152275", "title": "Yam (vegetable)", "text": "Yam (vegetable)\n\nYam is the common name for some plant species in the genus \"Dioscorea\" (family Dioscoreaceae) that form edible tubers. Yams are perennial herbaceous vines cultivated for the consumption of their starchy tubers in many temperate and tropical world regions. The tubers themselves are also called \"yams\", having numerous cultivars and related species.\n\nIn parts of the United States and Canada, \"yam\" is sometimes used to refer to varieties of the unrelated sweet potato (\"Ipomoea batatas\").\n\nThe name, yam, appears to derive from Portuguese \"inhame\" or Canarian (Spain) \"ñame\", which derived from West African languages during trade. The main derivations borrow from verbs meaning \"to eat\".\n\nIn various places other unrelated root vegetables are sometimes referred to as \"yams\", including:\n\nYam has various common names across multiple world regions.\n\nA monocot related to lilies and grasses, yams are vigorous herbaceous vines, providing an edible tuber. They are native to Africa, Asia, and the Americas. Some yams are also invasive plants, often considered a \"noxious weed\", outside cultivated areas. Yam tubers vary in size from that of a small potato to over . Some 870 species of yams are known, and 95% of these crops are grown in Africa.\n\nYam tubers can grow up to in length and high. The tuber may grow into the soil up to deep. The plant disperses by seed.\n\nThe edible tuber has a rough skin difficult to peel, but softens after heating. The skins vary in color from dark brown to light pink. The majority of the vegetable is composed of a much softer substance known as the \"meat\". This substance ranges in color from white or yellow to purple or pink in mature yams.\n\nYam crop begins when whole seed tubers or tuber portions are planted into mounds or ridges, at the beginning of the rainy season. The crop yield depends on how and where the setts are planted, sizes of mounds, interplant spacing, provision of stakes for the resultant plants, yam species, and tuber sizes desired at harvest. Small-scale farmers in West and Central Africa often intercrop yams with cereals and vegetables. The seed yams are perishable and bulky to transport. Farmers who do not buy new seed yams usually set aside up to 30% of their harvest for planting the next year. Yam crops face pressure from a range of insect pests and fungal and viral diseases, as well as nematode. Their growth and dormant phases correspond respectively to the wet season and the dry season. For maximum yield, the yams require a humid tropical environment, with an annual rainfall over 1500 mm distributed uniformly throughout the growing season. White, yellow, and water yams typically produce a single large tuber per year, generally weighing .\n\nDespite the high labor requirements and production costs, consumer demand for yam is high in certain subregions of Africa, making yam cultivation quite profitable to certain farmers.\n\nMany cultivars of yams are found throughout the humid tropics. The most economically important are discussed below.\n\n\"Dioscorea rotundata\", the white yam, and \"D. cayenensis\", the yellow yam, are native to Africa. They are the most important cultivated yams. In the past, they were considered as two separate species, but most taxonomists now regard them as the same species. Over 200 varieties between them are cultivated.\n\nWhite yam tuber is roughly cylindrical in shape, the skin is smooth and brown, and the flesh is usually white and firm. Yellow yam has yellow flesh, caused by the presence of carotenoids. It looks similar to the white yam in outer appearance; its tuber skin is usually a bit firmer and less extensively grooved. The yellow yam has a longer period of vegetation and a shorter dormancy than white yam.\n\nThe 'Kokoro' variety is important in making dried yam chips.\n\nThey are large plants; the vines can be as long as . The tubers most often weigh about each, but can weigh as much as . After 7 to 12 months' growth, the tubers are harvested. In Africa, most are pounded into a paste to make the traditional dish of \"pounded yam,\" known as Iyan.\n\n\"D. alata\", called \"white yam\", winged yam, water yam, and purple yam (not to be confused with the Okinawan purple \"yam\", which is a sweet potato), was first cultivated in Southeast Asia. Although not grown in the same quantities as the African yams, it has the largest distribution worldwide of any cultivated yam, being grown in Asia, the Pacific islands, Africa, and the West Indies. Even in Africa, the popularity of water yam is second only to white yam. The tuber shape is generally cylindrical, but can vary. Tuber flesh is white and watery in texture.\n\n\"Uhi\" was brought to Hawaii by the early Polynesian settlers and became a major crop in the 19th century when the tubers were sold to visiting ships as an easily stored food supply for their voyages.\n\n\"D. polystachya\", Chinese yam, is native to China. The Chinese yam plant is somewhat smaller than the African, with the vines about long. It is tolerant to frost and can be grown in much cooler conditions than other yams. It is also grown in Korea and Japan.\n\nIt was introduced to Europe in the 19th century, when the potato crop there was falling victim to disease, and is still grown in France for the Asian food market.\n\nThe tubers are harvested after about 6 months of growth. Some are eaten right after harvesting and some are used as ingredients for other dishes, including noodles, and for traditional medicines.\n\n\"D. bulbifera\", the air potato, is found in both Africa and Asia, with slight differences between those found in each place. It is a large vine, or more in length. It produces tubers, but the bulbils which grow at the base of its leaves are the more important food product. They are about the size of potatoes (hence the name \"air potato\"), weighing from .\n\nSome varieties can be eaten raw, while some require soaking or boiling for detoxification before eating. It is not grown much commercially since the flavor of other yams is preferred by most people. However, it is popular in home vegetable gardens because it produces a crop after only four months of growth and continues producing for the life of the vine, as long as two years. Also, the bulbils are easy to harvest and cook.\n\nIn 1905, the air potato was introduced to Florida and has since become an invasive species in much of the state. Its rapid growth crowds out native vegetation and is very difficult to remove since it can grow back from the tubers, and new vines can grow from the bulbils even after being cut down or burned.\n\n\"D. esculenta\", the lesser yam, was one of the first yam species cultivated. It is native to Southeast Asia and is the third-most commonly cultivated species there, although it is cultivated very little in other parts of the world. Its vines seldom reach more than in length and the tubers are fairly small in most varieties.\n\nThe tubers are eaten baked, boiled, or fried much like potatoes. Because of the small size of the tubers, mechanical cultivation is possible, which along with its easy preparation and good flavor, could help the lesser yam to become more popular in the future.\n\n\"D. dumetorum\", the bitter yam, is popular as a vegetable in parts of West Africa, in part because their cultivation requires less labor than other yams. The wild forms are very toxic and are sometimes used to poison animals when mixed with bait. It is said that they have also been used for criminal purposes.\n\n\"D. trifida\", the cush-cush yam, is native to the Guyana region of South America and is the most important cultivated New World yam. Since they originated in tropical rainforest conditions, their growth cycle is less related to seasonal changes than other yams. Because of their relative ease of cultivation and their good flavor, they are considered to have a great potential for increased production.\n\nYams in west Africa are typically harvested by hand using sticks, spades, or diggers. Wood-based tools are preferred to metallic tools as they are less likely to damage the fragile tubers; however, wood tools need frequent replacement. Yam harvesting is labor-intensive and physically demanding. Tuber harvesting involves standing, bending, squatting, and sometimes sitting on the ground depending on the size of mound, size of tuber, or depth of tuber penetration. Care must be taken to avoid damage to the tuber, because damaged tubers do not store well and spoil rapidly. Some farmers use staking and mixed cropping, a practice that complicates harvesting in some cases.\n\nIn forested areas, tubers grow in areas where other tree roots are present. Harvesting the tuber then involves the additional step of freeing them from other roots. This often causes tuber damage.\n\nAerial tubers or bulbils are harvested by manual plucking from the vine.\n\nYields may improve and cost of yam production be lower if mechanization were to be developed and adopted. However, current crop production practices and species used pose considerable hurdles to successful mechanization of yam production, particularly for small-scale rural farmers. Extensive changes in traditional cultivation practices, such as mixed cropping, may be required. Modification of current tuber harvesting equipment is necessary given yam tuber architecture and its different physical properties.\n\nIn 2014, worldwide production of yams was 68.1 million tonnes, led by Nigeria with 66% of the global total (table). Nigeria farmed yams on 5.4 million hectares, 70% of the world land area of 7.8 million hectares devoted to yam farming. \n\nThe world average annual yield of yams was 8.8 tonnes per hectare in 2014, with Ethiopia having the most productive farms of 29.7 tonnes per hectare.\n\nRoots and tubers such as yam are living organisms. When stored, they continue to respire, which results in the oxidation of the starch (a polymer of glucose) contained in the cells of the tuber, which converts it into water, carbon dioxide, and heat energy. During this transformation of the starch, the dry matter of the tuber is reduced.\n\nAmongst the major roots and tubers, properly stored yam is considered to be the least perishable. Successful storage of yams requires:\n\nStoring yam at low temperature reduces the respiration rates. However, temperatures below cause damage through chilling, causing a breakdown of internal tissues, increasing water loss and yam's susceptibility to decay. The symptoms of chilling injury are not always obvious when the tubers are still in cold storage. The injury becomes noticeable as soon as the tubers are restored to ambient temperatures.\n\nThe best temperature to store yams is between , with high-technology-controlled humidity and climatic conditions, after a process of curing. Most countries that grow yams as a staple food are too poor to afford high-technology storage systems.\n\nSprouting rapidly increases a tuber's respiration rates, and accelerates the rate at which its food value decreases.\n\nCertain cultivars of yams store better than others. The easier to store yams are those adapted to arid climate, where they tend to stay in a dormant low-respiration stage much longer than yam breeds adapted to humid tropical lands, where they do not need dormancy. Yellow yam and cush-cush yam, by nature, have much shorter dormancy periods than water yam, white yam, or lesser yam.\n\nStorage losses for yams are very high in Africa, with insects alone causing over 25% harvest loss within 4 months.\n\nRaw yam has only moderate nutrient density, with appreciable content (10% or more of the Daily Value, DV) limited to potassium, vitamin B6, manganese, thiamin, dietary fiber, and vitamin C (table). Yam supplies 118 Calories per 100 grams. Yam generally has a lower glycemic index, about 54% of glucose per 150 gram serving, compared to potato products.\n\nThe protein content and quality of roots and tubers is lower than other food staples, with the content of yam and potato being around 2% on a fresh-weight basis. Yams, with cassava, provide a much greater proportion of the protein intake in Africa, ranging from 6% in East and South Africa to about 16% in humid West Africa.\n\nAs a relatively low-protein food, yam is not a good source of essential amino acids. Experts emphasize the need to supplement a yam-dominant diet with more protein-rich foods to support healthy growth in children.\n\nYam is an important dietary element for Nigerian and West African people. It contributes more than 200 calories per person per day for more than 150 million people in West Africa, and is an important source of income. Yam is an attractive crop in poor farms with limited resources. It is rich in starch, and can be prepared in many ways. It is available all year round, unlike other, unreliable, seasonal crops. These characteristics make yam a preferred food and a culturally important food security crop in some sub-Saharan African countries.\n\nThe tubers of certain wild yam, a variant of kokoro yam and other species of \"Dioscorea\", such as \"Dioscorea nipponica\", are a source for the extraction of diosgenin, a steroid sapogenin. The extracted diosgenin is used for the commercial synthesis of cortisone, pregnenolone, progesterone, and other steroid products. Such preparations were used in early combined oral contraceptive pills. The unmodified steroid has estrogenic activity.\n\nThe following table shows the nutrient content of yam and major staple foods in a raw harvested form. Raw forms, however, are not edible and cannot be digested. These must be sprouted, or prepared and cooked for human consumption. In sprouted or cooked form, the relative nutritional and antinutritional contents of each of these staples is remarkably different from that of raw form of these staples.\n\nYams are consumed in a variety of preparations, such as flour or whole vegetable pieces across their range of distribution in Asia, Africa, North America, Central America, the Caribbean, South America, and Oceania.\n\nYams of African species must be cooked to be safely eaten, because various natural substances in yams can cause illness if consumed raw. The most common cooking methods in Western and Central Africa are by boiling, frying or roasting.\n\nAmong the Akan of Ghana, boiled yam can be mashed with palm oil into \"eto\" in a similar manner to the plantain dish \"matoke\", and is served with eggs. The boiled yam can also be pounded with a traditional mortar and pestle to create a thick, starchy paste known as \"iyan\" (pounded yam) or \"fufu\" which is eaten with traditional sauces such as \"egusi\" and palm nut soup.\n\nAnother method of consumption is to leave the raw yam pieces to dry in the sun. When dry, the pieces turn a dark brown color. These are then milled to create a brown powder known in Nigeria as \"elubo\". The powder can be mixed with boiling water to create a thick starchy paste, a kind of pudding known as \"amala\", which is then eaten with local soups and sauces.\n\nYams are a primary agricultural and culturally important commodity in West Africa, where over 95% of the world's yam crop is harvested. Yams are still important for survival in these regions. Some varieties of these tubers can be stored up to six months without refrigeration, which makes them a valuable resource for the yearly period of food scarcity at the beginning of the wet season. Yam cultivars are also cultivated in other humid tropical countries.\n\nYam is the main staple crop of the Igbos in south eastern Nigeria where for centuries it played a dominant role in both their agricultural and cultural life. It is celebrated with annual yam festivals\n\nTaro paste, a traditional Chaoshan cuisine, which originated from the Chaoshan region in the eastern part of China's Guangdong Province is a dessert made primarily from taro. The taro is steamed and then mashed into a thick paste, which forms the base of the dessert. Pumpkin is also added for sweetness and to create a smoother consistency. Lard or fried onion oil is then added for fragrance. The dessert is traditionally sweetened with water chestnut syrup, and served with ginkgo nuts. Modern versions of the dessert include the addition of coconut cream and sweet corn. The dessert is commonly served at traditional Teochew wedding banquet dinners as the last course, marking the end of the banquet.\n\nIn the Philippines, the purple \"ube\" species of yam (\"Dioscorea alata\"), is eaten as a sweetened dessert called \"ube halaya\", and is also used as an ingredient in another Filipino dessert, \"halo-halo\". It is also used as a popular ingredient for ice cream.\n\nIn Vietnam, the same purple yam is used for preparing a special type of soup \"canh khoai mỡ\" or fatty yam soup. This involves mashing the yam and cooking it until very well done.\n\nIn Indonesia, the same purple yam is used for preparing desserts. This involves mashing the yam and mixing it with coconut milk and sugar. White- and off-white-fleshed yams are cut in cubes, cooked, lightly fermented, and eaten as afternoon snacks.\n\n An exception to the cooking rule is the mountain yam (\"Dioscorea polystachya\"), known as \"nagaimo\" and can be further classified into \"ichōimo\" (lit. 'ginkgo-leaf yam'; kanji: 銀杏芋), or \"yamatoimo\" (lit. Yamato yam; kanji: 大和芋), depending on the root shape.\n\n\"Nagaimo\" is eaten raw and grated, after only a relatively minimal preparation: the whole tubers are briefly soaked in a vinegar-water solution to neutralize irritant oxalate crystals found in their skin. The raw vegetable is starchy and bland, mucilaginous when grated, and may be eaten plain as a side dish, or added to noodles.\n\nAnother variety of yam, \"jinenjo\", is used in Japan as an ingredient in soba noodles. In Okinawa, purple yams (\"Dioscorea alata\") are grown. This is known locally as\" daijo \" or \"beniimo\". This purple yam is popular as lightly deep-fried tempura, as well as being grilled or boiled. Additionally, the purple yam is a common ingredient of yam ice cream with the signature purple color. Purple yam is also used in other types of traditional \"wagashi\" sweets, cakes, and candy.\n\nIn central parts of India, the yam (\"khamalu\", \"suran\", or \"chupri alu\") is prepared by being finely sliced, seasoned with spices, and deep fried. In southern parts of India, known as \"karunai kizhangu\" in Tamil, the vegetable is a popular accompaniment to rice dishes and fish curry. Also eaten in India, \"D. alata\", a purple-pigmented species, is known as \"ratalu\" or violet yam.\n\nIn the southern part, especially in Kerala, both purple and white colored yams are locally known as \"kaachil\" or \"kavuttu\".\n\nIn Karnataka, it is known as \"suvarna gadde\" in Kannada language. In central India, it is also called \"garadu\".\nIn Andhra Pradesh, it is known as \"ganisi gadda\".\n\n\"Dioscorea root \"is traditionally eaten on \"Māgh Sankrānti\" (a midwinter festival) in Nepal. In Nepali, it is called \"tarul\" and in Newari \"hī\". It is usually steamed and then cooked with spices.\n\nYam, known locally in Fiji as \"uvi\", may replace cassava or taro as a staple, and is consumed boiled, roasted in a lovo, or steamed with fish or meat in curry sauce or coconut milk and served with rice. The cost of yam is higher due to the difficulty in farming and relatively low volume of production on Fiji.\n\nYam powder is available in the West from grocers specializing in African products, and may be used in a similar manner to instant mashed potato powder, although preparation is a little more difficult because of the tendency to form lumps. The yam powder is sprinkled onto a pan containing a small amount of boiling water, and stirred vigorously. The resulting mixture is served with a heated sauce, such as tomato and chili, poured onto it.\n\nBecause of their abundance and importance to survival, yams were highly regarded in Jamaican ceremonies and constitute part of many traditional West African ceremonies.\n\nUnlike cassava, most varieties of edible, mature, cultivated yam do not contain toxic compounds. However, there are exceptions. Bitter compounds tend to accumulate in immature tuber tissues of white and yellow yams. These may be polyphenols or tannin-like compounds.\n\nWild forms of bitter yams do contain some toxins that taste bitter, hence are referred to as bitter yam. Bitter yams are not normally eaten except at times of desperation in poor countries and in times of local food scarcity. They are usually detoxified by soaking in a vessel of salt water, in cold or hot fresh water or in a stream. The bitter compounds in these yams are water-soluble alkaloids which, on ingestion, produce severe and distressing symptoms. Severe cases of alkaloid intoxication may prove fatal.\n\nAerial or potato yams have antinutritional factors. In Asia, detoxification methods, involving water extraction, fermentation, and roasting of the grated tuber, are used for bitter cultivars of this yam. The bitter compounds in yams also known locally as air potato include diosbulbin and possibly saponins, such as diosgenin. In Indonesia, an extract of air potato is used in the preparation of arrow poison.\n\nA yam festival is usually held in the beginning of August at the end of the rainy season. People offer yams to gods and ancestors first, before distributing them to the villagers. This is their way of giving thanks to the spirits above them.\n\nThe New Yam Festival celebrates the main agricultural crop of the Igbos, Idomas, and Tivs. The New Yam Festival, known as \"Orureshi\" in Owukpa in Idoma west and \"Ima-Ji\", \"Iri-Ji\" or \"Iwa Ji\" in Igbo land, is a celebration depicting the prominence of yam in social and cultural life. The festival is prominent among southeastern states and major tribes in Benue State, mainly around August.\n\nHistorical records in West Africa and of African yams in Europe date back to the 16th century. Yams were taken to the Americas through precolonial Portuguese and Spanish on the borders of Brazil and Guyana, followed by a dispersion through the Caribbean.\n\nYams are used in Papua New Guinea, where they are called \"kaukau\". Their cultivation and harvesting is accompanied by complex rituals and taboos. The coming of the yams (one of the numerous versions from Maré) is described in Pene Nengone (Loyalty Islands of New Caledonia).\n"}
{"id": "2850867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2850867", "title": "Years of Lead", "text": "Years of Lead\n\nThe Years of Lead were a political phenomenon related to the Cold War that was characterized by left- and right-wing terrorism and the putative strategy of tension, beginning in Italy and later spreading to the rest of Europe. In Italy terrorist groups include the Red Brigades and Ordine Nuovo, in Germany there was the Red Army Faction and in France there was \"Action directe\". In Belgium, the \"années de plomb\" or \"Bloody Eighties\", refers to the Brabant massacres which resulted in 28 deaths. The far-right movement Westland New Post (WNP) has been suspected in this campaign. Attacks by the Communist Combatant Cells, a short-lived group, killed two. Many of the right-wing groups involved have been linked to Operation Gladio. The liberation of James L. Dozier signaled the end of the Years of Lead.\n\n\nFrench \"Les années de plomb\", Italian \"Anni di piombo\", and Portuguese \"Anos de chumbo\", all meaning \"Years of Lead\", are also the French, Italian and Portuguese titles of the 1981 West German film \"Die bleierne Zeit\" (literally: \"The Period of Lead\") about the RAF period in Germany (English titles: \"The German Sisters\" (UK); \"Marianne and Juliane\" (USA)).\n\n"}
