{"id": "48302927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48302927", "title": "Access to public information in Serbia", "text": "Access to public information in Serbia\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right of access to information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right of access to public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law.\n\nIn Serbia, access to public information is guaranteed in the Constitution and protected by the Law on free Access to Information of Public Importance adopted in 2003 and amended in 2007 and 2009. \nThe scope of the right entails that everyone in Serbia has the right to access to information of public importance and to be informed whether public authorities hold specific information, whether such information is already accessible, and to obtain a copy of the requested information.\nThe Commissioner for Information of Public Importance and Protection of personal data is the authority entitled by law to monitor the respect of obligations entailed by this Law.\n\nSerbia is considered among the countries with the best regulatory framework regarding access to information of public relevance: the Global Right to Information Rating, compiled by NGOs AccessInfo and Centre for Law and Democracy, ranks the country in the second position in its global ranking assessing the quality of legislative frameworks regulating FOI across the world.\n\nThe right of access to public information is defined in Article 51 of the Constitution of Serbia, which establishes the right of everybody to be informed about issues of public importance and the deriving obligation of state bodies and public organizations to guarantee the access to such information.\n\nThe right to access to information of public relevance is translated into national law by the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Importance adopted in 2003 and amended in 2007 and 2009.\n\nThe scope of the law is valued positively especially inasmuch as it extends the right to access to information to all natural person, notwithstanding their citizenship, temporary or permanent residence in the country.\n\nMoreover, the right to access information applies to the executive, legislative and judicial bodies, State-owned enterprises, as well as other public authorities and private bodies that perform a public function or that receive significant public funding are also obliged to disclose information of public relevance (Art. 3).\n\nRequests should be lodged in written form, with no need for the applicant to specify the reason for the request.\nThe public authority shall reply without delay and within 15 days at the latest. If the requested information entails consequences for the protection of a person's life or freedom, public health and the environment, the time span at the disposal of authorities is reduced to 48 hours. In cases in which the document contains information that the public has no legitimate interest to know, the applicant has the right to access to other parts of the documents.\n\nLimitations to the right to access to information are defined in Article 9 of the Law, establishing that legitimate limitation may derive if the requested information exposes to risk the life, health, safety or another vital interest of a person; if it obstacles the work of the judiciary; if it threatens national defense, national and public safety, international relations or the government's ability to manage the national economic processes. Finally, classified information are excluded from the right.\n\nThe authority in charge of monitoring the respect of the Law is the Commissioner for Information of Public Importance. The Commissioner is an independent, second-level appeal instance: if a public authority does not respond to the request within the deadline, the applicant may lodge a complaint with the Commissioner, except in cases prescribed by this Law (Art.16).\n\nThe Commissioner is entitled by Law to issue decisions on disputed cases, and his/her decisions should be enforced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia if necessary (Art 28). The Commissioner is appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on proposal of the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for information. The position of the Commissioner for Information has been held since 2004 by Rodoljub Šabić, who was appointed for an initial 7-years term and then re-elected in 2011.\n\nAside from examining individual complaints related to violations of the right to free access to information, the Commissioner also addresses citizens’ requests asking how to exercise their right to information, provides to state authorities opinions about the implementation of the law, trainings for law implementation and takes part in activities related to the EU accession process.\n\nIt has been noted that a significant limitation of the right set forth in the Constitution is due to the restrictions applied to the admissibility of complaints against first instance decisions: a complaint is not admissible if “lodged against decisions of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Constitutional Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor” (Art. 22).\n\nSince the adoption of the Law on Access to Information in 2004, a significant increase in the number of requests has been registered by the entitled Commissioner, pointing to the positive fact that the right is increasing being used by citizens and media professionals in Serbia. At the same time, the increasing number of complaints filed to the Commissioner demonstrates the reluctancy by authorities to timely and fully comply with the obligation established by the Law on access to information.\n\nIn its annual report for 2015, the Commissioner for Information notes some limitation to the effective implementation of the law. These have to do, according to the Commissioner, particularly with insufficient accountability for violations of the Law and inefficient mechanisms of enforcement of the Commissioner’s decisions.\n\nConsidering the implementation of the Law on Access to Information in Serbia and its impact on the exercise of journalism, Freedom House has noted in 2016 that “Despite the existence of the 2004 Law on Free Access to Information of Public Importance, authorities frequently obstruct journalists’ efforts to obtain public information”.\n\nConcern over implementation, alignment with European standards, endowment of resources to the Commissioner for Information and enforcement of his decisions is highlighted also by the European Union in its annual report.\n\nA landmark case by the European Court of Human Rights related to the right to access to information in Serbia. \nIn 2006, the Belgrade-based NGO Youth Initiative for Human Rights (YIHR) filed a request to the Serbian Security Intelligence Agency demanding information concerning the use of electronic surveillance measures by that agency in 2005. \nThe Agency denied access to the requested information twice, first on grounds of secrecy and then, after a binding decision by the Commissioner for Information stating that the information should be made public, by declaring that it did not hold the requested information.\n\nYIHR appealed to the European Court of Human Rights under Article 6 and Article 10 of the Convention.\nIn June 2013, the verdict of the ECtHR defined “unpersuasive” the argument used by the Agency according to which it did not hold the information requested and found that the restrictions imposed by the Serbian intelligence agency were not justified by domestic law and hence constituted a violation of article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1561864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561864", "title": "Ambush defence", "text": "Ambush defence\n\nAn ambush defence is one in which defence evidence - notably from expert witnesses - has not been adduced in advance to the prosecuting authorities, leading to their inability to rebut it. The term is used in United Kingdom jurisprudence. Since 1987, the possibility of the ambush defence has been much reduced by The Crown Court (Advance Notice of Expert Evidence) Rules 1987, made under section 81 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, which in essence require the defence to provide the prosecution with copies of expert witness reports in sufficient time for the prosecution to consider the nature of and if necessary prepare rebuttal evidence opposing the report.\n\nAn example of the ambush defence is found in a paper given by Judge John Milford QC at a 1994 Joint Conference entitled \"Beyond reasonable doubt\" organised by the Royal Society of Medicine and the Expert Witness Institute. Discussing the trial of a train driver following the 1984 derailment of a train near Morpeth he wrote:\n\n"}
{"id": "5975312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5975312", "title": "Armistice of Villa Giusti", "text": "Armistice of Villa Giusti\n\nThe Armistice of Villa Giusti ended warfare between Italy and Austria-Hungary on the Italian Front during World War I. The armistice was signed on 3 November 1918 in the Villa Giusti, outside Padua in the Veneto, northern Italy, and took effect 24 hours later.\n\nBy the end of October 1918, the Austro-Hungarian Army was so fatigued that its commanders were forced to seek a ceasefire.\nIn the final stage of the Battle of Vittorio Veneto, a stalemate was reached and the troops of Austria-Hungary started a chaotic withdrawal. From 28 October onwards, Austria-Hungary sought to negotiate a truce but hesitated to sign the text of armistice. In the meantime, the Italians reached Trento, Udine, and landed in Trieste. After the threat to break off negotiations, the Austro-Hungarians, on 3 November, accepted the terms.\n\nThe cease-fire would start at 3pm on 4 November, but a unilateral order of the Austro-Hungarian high command made its forces stop fighting on 3 November.\n\nUnder the terms of the armistice, Austria-Hungary’s forces were required to evacuate not only all territory occupied since August 1914 but also South Tirol, Tarvisio, the Isonzo Valley, Gorizia, Trieste, Istria, western Carniola, and Dalmatia. All German forces should be expelled from Austria-Hungary within 15 days or interned, and the Allies were to have free use of Austria-Hungary’s internal communications. They were also obliged to allow the transit of the Entente armies, to reach Germany from the South. Beginning in November 1918, the Italian Army with 20,000-22,000 soldiers occupied Innsbruck and all North Tyrol.\n\nAfter the war, the Kingdom of Italy annexed the Southern Tyrol (now Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol), according to the secret Treaty of London terms as well as Trieste and the Austrian Littoral.\n\nItaly: \n\nAustria-Hungary: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23066632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23066632", "title": "Attorney General of Tonga", "text": "Attorney General of Tonga\n\nThe position of Attorney General was established in the Kingdom of Tonga in 1988. From 1988 to 2009, the Attorney General jointly held the office of Minister of Justice.\n\nThe current Attorney General is Neil Adsett, since 16 January 2012. He \"has been a barrister and solicitor for over 30 years\", and had recently been involved in Tonga's constitutional and electoral reforms. He is expected to serve for four years. He succeeded Barrie Sweetman, a Fiji lawyer who had served in an interim capacity during the previous six months.\n\nThe Tongan government in 2010 defined the Attorney General as \"Chief Legal Advisor to Government\", with the following responsibilities:\n\nFollowing constitutional reforms, applicable as from Adsett's appointment in January 2012, the Attorney General is reportedly\n\n\nJohn Cauchi, appointed in May 2009, was the first Attorney General not to hold the portfolio of Justice Minister. He was also the first non-Tongan to hold the office, being an Australian citizen. He resigned the position on 30 April 2010. It is not currently clear how many people held the position between Cauchi's resignation and Sweetman's appointment. In early 2011, the CIA Factbook stated the Attorney General was ʻAsipeli ʻAminiasi Kefu. However this may have been an error, as other sources described Kefu as the Solicitor General. Minister for Justice Samiu Vaipulu was the Attorney General just prior to Sweetman's appointment; the latter thus disassociated the two positions, which had once again been combined in a single person.\n\nAs of August 2011, the Kingdom has had at least seven Attorneys General. Matangi Tonga has noted that three of the country's Attorneys General (namely Tupou and both Taumoepeaus) \"have been told to resign\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7147959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7147959", "title": "Authors' rights", "text": "Authors' rights\n\n\"Author's rights\" is a term frequently used in connection with laws about intellectual property.\n\nThe term is considered as a direct translation of the French term droit d’auteur (also German \"Urheberrecht\"). It was indeed first (1777) promoted in France by Pierre-Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais, who had close relations with Benjamin Franklin. It is generally used in relation to the copyright laws of civil law countries and in European Union law. Authors' rights are internationally protected by the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works and by other similar treaties. Concerning \"work of the spirit\", “Author” is used in a very wide sense, and includes composers, artists, sculptors and even architects: in general, the author is the person whose creativity led to the protected work being created, although the exact definition varies from country to country. \n\nAuthors’ rights have two distinct components: the economic rights in the work and the moral rights of the author. The economic rights are a property right which is limited in time and which may be transferred by the author to other people in the same way as any other property (although many countries require that the transfer must be in the form of a written contract). They are intended to allow the author or their holder to profit financially from his or her creation, and include the right to authorize the reproduction of the work in any form (Article 9, Berne Convention). The authors of dramatic works (plays, etc.) also have the right to authorize the public performance of their works (Article 11, Berne Convention).\n\nThe protection of the moral rights of an author is based on the view that a creative work is in some way an expression of the author’s personality: the moral rights are therefore personal to the author, and cannot be transferred to another person except by testament when the author dies. The moral rights regime differs greatly between countries, but typically includes the right to be identified as the author of the work and the right to object to any distortion or mutilation of the work which would be prejudicial to his or her honor or reputation (Article 6bis, Berne Convention). In many countries, the moral rights of an author are perpetual.\n\nBefore the discovery of printing, the need for this right was not perceived because the number of handwritten copies was very small and there were not many authors by profession. From the sixteenth, in order to control the spread of thought and to guarantee the right of the bookseller, the police of printing erected the printing-houses in monopoly. Before any book would be printed, every bookseller should apply to the king for copyrights. Little by little (Beaumarchais, Balzac and Hugo) things changed. With author’s right, it was no more the fonts on the paper as a material thing which were considered, but the content of the book: the work of the spirit.\n\nIt is common to draw a distinction in the treatment of authors and other interested parties between common law jurisdictions and civil law systems. Both copyright and authors’ rights arose in the eighteenth century to address similar problems: the inequality in relations between authors and publishers (and between publishers themselves) if intellectual property is not recognized and protected, and the need to provide an income for authors other than patronage. Both systems provide for a monopoly right granted to the author for a limited term which can be transferred to another person, which was initially the right to copy or otherwise reproduce the work (hence “copyright”) but has since been expanded to take account of technological developments.\n\nIt is an essential feature of authors’ rights and of many copyright laws that the object which is protected must arise from the creativity of the author rather than from his or her simple effort or investment (see \"Feist v. Rural\" in the United States): both French and German copyright laws protect “works of the mind” (\"oeuvres de l'esprit\" and \"persönliche geistige Schöpfungen\", respectively). This has led civil law systems to adopt a strong link between the rights (at least initially) and the person of the author: the initial ownership rights by a corporation are severely restricted or even impossible (as in Germany). Common law jurisdictions are more willing to accept corporate ownership of copyright, as in the U. S. work for hire principle. Although the following comparison is simplistic and dependent on the exact laws of individual countries, it is difficult to see an effective (economic) difference in the two situations:\n\nCivil law systems have also been forceful in protecting the moral rights of authors, arguing that their creativity deserves protection as an integral part of their personality. The protection of the personality in common law jurisdiction has for long been separate from the law of copyright, embodied in such torts as defamation (also passing off and malicious falsehood). Moral rights were not, therefore, explicitly mentioned in UK copyright law until 1988, over a century after the United Kingdom signed the Berne Convention. The difference runs both ways: UK and Irish copyright laws protect the privacy of the subject of certain photographs and films as a moral right under copyright law, while civil law systems treat this as a separate portrait right. The different protections of industrial design rights cut across the divide between the two systems of law.\n\nThe term “authors’ rights” is used in European Union law to avoid ambiguity, in preference to the more usual translation of \"droit d’auteur\" etc. as “copyright”. The equivalent term in British and Irish law is “copyright (subsisting) in a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work”; the term in Maltese and Cypriot law is similar, except that dramatic works are treated as a subset of literary works.\n\nUnder a bill proposed by the government of Chancellor Angela Merkel approved by the Bundestag, Germany infringement of copyright is equivalent to the crime of theft. The prison sentences for violations of copyright, exactly equal to those provided for the theft, are five years in prison and are the strictest in Europe. For the offense may be indicted even children under 18 years. In addition, following the judgment of 20 October 1993 on the case Phil Collins, it was launched Article 12 (in the Treaty establishing the European Community), according to which states cannot discriminate against goods from other countries.\n\nSince October 2009, as required under the Creation and Internet law n. 311, High Authority for the dissemination of works and protection of rights on the Internet (HADOPI) may order the ISP (Internet Service Provider), following a process of investigation and a series of warnings, to temporarily or permanently suspend the 'internet access to those who are caught downloading material illegally.\n\nThe Italian copyright law is governed primarily by Law 22 April 1941 n. 633, on \"Protection of copyright and other rights associated with its exercise,\" and Article 2575 and following of the Civil Code (Book Five - Title IX: Of Intellectual property rights and on industrial inventions). Article 54 L.218 / 95 states as the proprietary rights are regulated by state law to use, although the advent of the internet complicate the identification of the place where the activity was carried out.\n\nRelated rights (in German \"verwandte Schutzrechte\"), often referred to as neighbouring rights as a more direct translation of the French \"Droit Voisins\", are property rights granted to people who are not the “author” of the work in the creative sense of the term. Typically these include performers, producers of phonograms (records, CDs, etc.), producers of films (as opposed to directors or scriptwriters) and broadcasting organisations. Related rights are generally more restricted than authors’ rights in civil law countries, although they may be equivalent in common law countries where both fall under the same concept of “copyright”. They are not directly covered by the Berne Convention, but are internationally protected by other treaties such as the Rome Convention for the Protection of Performers, Producers of Phonograms and Broadcasting Organisations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40368581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40368581", "title": "Blu-ray ripper", "text": "Blu-ray ripper\n\nBlu-ray ripper is a computer program that facilitates copying a Blu-ray disc or HD DVDs to a hard disk drive.\n\nSoftware tagged as \"no longer available\" is due to New York federal court by AACS group legal action in later March, 2014. Remaining existing US software have disabled the decrypt / unencrypt / de-lock feature that allows bypass the Blu-ray disc protections. As from October, 2014 MakeMKV, MyBD and AnyDVD (AnyDVD is like a driver for decrypt purposes only) are able to decrypt Blu-ray disc protection as being are free applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "3060081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3060081", "title": "Blue sky law", "text": "Blue sky law\n\nA blue sky law is a state law in the United States that regulates the offering and sale of securities ostensibly to protect the public from fraud. Though the specific provisions of these laws vary among states, they all require the registration of all securities offerings and sales, as well as of stockbrokers and brokerage firms. Each state's blue sky law is administered by its appropriate regulatory agency, and most also provide private causes of action for private investors who have been injured by securities fraud.\n\nThe first blue sky law was enacted in Kansas in 1911 at the urging of its banking commissioner, Joseph Norman Dolley, and served as a model for similar statutes in other states. Between 1911 and 1933, 47 states adopted blue-sky statutes (Nevada was the lone holdout). Today, the blue sky laws of 40 of the 50 states are patterned after the Uniform Securities Act of 1956. Historically, the federal securities laws and the state blue sky laws complemented and often duplicated one another. Much of the duplication, especially with regards to registration of securities and the regulation of brokers and advisors, was largely preempted by the Securities and Exchange Commission with the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996 (NSMIA). This act, however, left some regulation of investment advisors and much of the fraud litigation under state jurisdiction. In 1998, state law securities fraud claims were expressly preempted by the Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act from being raised in lawsuits that were effectively class actions by investors, even if not filed as class actions.\n\nIts earliest cited use by the United States Supreme Court was in an opinion by U.S. Supreme Court Justice Joseph McKenna in \"Hall v. Geiger-Jones Co.\", 242 U.S. 539 (1917), a case that addressed the constitutionality of state securities laws. Oddly, McKenna is frequently (and erroneously) given credit for inventing the term, even though J. N. Dolley used the term when plumping for passage of the Kansas statute in 1910, and McKenna's own opinion in \"Hall\" itself attributes the term to an unnamed, earlier source: \n\nKansas banking commissioner Dolley, railing against \"blue sky merchants\" when pushing for passage of the Kansas statute in 1910, observed that certain fraudulent investments were backed by nothing but the blue skies of Kansas. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" has a cited use dating to 1906. Also, \"The New York Times\" (and other national newspapers) frequently reported on the blue sky laws as various states began to enact them between 1911 and 1916. The newspapers expressly used the term \"blue sky\" to describe the laws.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23531821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23531821", "title": "Conditional dismissal", "text": "Conditional dismissal\n\nA conditional dismissal is a dismissal subject to conditions—for example, the dismissal of a suit for foreclosure of a mortgage, subject to receipt of payment in the amount of a tender which induced the dismissal. Thompson v Crains, 294 Ill 270, 128 NE 508, 12 ALR 931.\n"}
{"id": "25772180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25772180", "title": "Conduct prejudicial to good order and discipline", "text": "Conduct prejudicial to good order and discipline\n\nConduct prejudicial to good order and discipline is an offence against military law in many countries. It has existed in military law since before the 17th century and is an important offence which functions as a catch-all to criminalise offences against military order which are not specified elsewhere. \n\nThe offence of \"conduct prejudicial to good order and discipline\" has been described as one of the offences that forms the \"hardcore of military law\". The offence is present in the military law of many countries and is often considered a catch-all offence to criminalise misconduct that is not specified elsewhere. \n\nThis kind of offence was first introduced to English military law in the 17th century, the law having previously been \"minute in its details\" with no catch-all article. However such articles were found in continental military law such as the Swedish Articles of Gustavus Adolphus issued in 1621 which allowed for \"whatsoever is not contained in these articles, and is repugnant to military discipline ... shall the several commanders make good, or see severally punished\". A form of this catch-all article was introduced to England in the Articles of War for 1625 which stated that \"all other disorders whatsoever are to be punished, as these formerly nominated\". This had been expanded on in the 1627 articles stated that \"all other abuses and offences not specified in these orders shall be punished according to the discipline of war and opinions of such officers and others shall be called to make a \"Councell of Warr\"\".\n\nThe article took on something of its modern form in 1642 when the Earl of Essex's Articles of War stated that \"all other faults, disorders and offences, not mentioned in these articles, shall be punished according to the general customs and laws of war\". The \"conduct to the prejudice\" concept was introduced at some point after 1700. By the late 18th century the offence had become article 23 of the British military law and allowed for the punishment of \"all disorders or neglects ... to the prejudice of good order and military discipline\". This part of British military law was adopted by the Continental Congress for use in the military of the United States in 1775. By 1835 the article was commonly known as the \"Devil's article\" within the British Army.\n\nThe charge is covered by section 129 of the National Defence Act of 1922. The act allows for two separate offences: conduct prejudicial to good order and discipline or an act prejudicial to good order and discipline.\n\nIn Gambia the charge is covered by section 78 of the Gambia Armed Forces Act 1985.\n\nIn the British Armed Forces the offence is covered by section 19 of the Armed Forces Act 2006, which applies to all branches. The offence is categorised as an offence of \"neglect of duty and misconduct\" and the covers \"an act that is prejudicial to good order and service discipline\" or causing the same through omission. A person may be tried for the offence at a court martial or through a summary hearing in front of their Commanding Officer. Unlike some offences in the Armed Forces Act it is not applicable to civilians subject to service discipline.\n\nA person found guilty of the offence may be punished by one or more of:\n\nIn the US Armed Forces the offence is covered by article 134 (the \"general article\") of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). This section states that \"all disorders and neglects to the prejudice of good order and discipline in the armed forces\" shall be tried by court martial and punished at the discretion of that court. The general article also covers offences which bring discredit upon the armed forces and \"crimes and offenses not capital\".\n\nThe UCMJ requires that all acts be directly prejudicial to good order and discipline. Examples of misconduct prosecuted under the act includes a Chief Petty Officer \"cross dressing in public view\", a Sergeant who mooned another servicemember's wife and a seaman making unauthorised long distance calls. Examples of conduct listed in the Manual for Courts-Martial include adultery, bribery, fraternization, gambling, straggling, and indecent language.\n\n"}
{"id": "47129984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47129984", "title": "Drugs controlled by the German Betäubungsmittelgesetz", "text": "Drugs controlled by the German Betäubungsmittelgesetz\n\nDrugs controlled by the German Betäubungsmittelgesetz (BtMG). Trade and possession of these substances without license or prescription is considered illegal; prescription is illegal for drugs on Anlage I and II and drugs on Anlage III require a special prescription form.\n\nAnlage I controlled substances are non-tradable. Those substances are available only by special permission of the authorities, which is granted only for scientific or other public interest purposes.\n\nAs well as ester, ether, stereoisomers and salts of the substances listed in Anlage I.\n\nAnlage II controlled substances are tradable, given special permission of the authorities, however not prescriptible. Narcotics on Anlage II are usually needed for the production of other narcotics on Anlage III.\n\nAs well as ester, ether and salts of the substances listed in Anlage II.\n\nAnlage III controlled substances are tradable and prescriptible, but only on a special prescription form. The prescription must be necessary in that its purpose cannot be met by other means. Summary of Product Characteristics for those substances are restricted to professional circles.\n\nAs well as salts of the substances listed in Anlage III.\n\nThese are the results from the '46. Sitzung des Sachverständigenausschusses nach § 1 Abs. 2 des Betäubungsmittelgesetzes (BtMG) am 02. Mai 2016 um 13.00 Uhr im Bundesinstitut für Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte (BfArM, Bonn)'.\n\n"}
{"id": "31929013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31929013", "title": "E-G8 Forum", "text": "E-G8 Forum\n\nThe E-G8 Forum (or simply the eG8) was an invitation-only summit of leaders in government and industry focusing on the Internet in the context of global public policy. The event was put on by Publicis Groupe and was convened by French President Nicolas Sarkozy from May 24-25th 2011, prior to the 37th G8 summit, and was held at the Tuileries Garden in Paris.\n\nThe idea for the event came up on a blog post by Tariq Krim in which the founder of Netvibes complained that France doesn't have its own CTO. The blog post was reposted by Arnaud Dassier and Loïc Le Meur, and read by the Elysée's technical counsellor Nicolas Princen, who then convinced Nicolas Sarkozy to take a step towards the French digital natives after the failure of Hadopi.\n\nThe conference, which was the first of its kind, was a meeting of international government figures and those in the global technology industry. It included participants such as Eric Schmidt from Google, Sheryl Sandberg and Mark Zuckerberg from Facebook, Jimmy Wales from the Wikimedia Foundation, French Minister of the Economy Christine Lagarde, Rupert Murdoch from News Corp, and was opened with a speech by Sarkozy. A few invitees, such as author Cory Doctorow, refused to attend in protest before it even began, and claimed the event was, more or less, a PR stunt financed by the advertising industry and Sarkozy's connections to Publicis Group.\n\nThe discussion over the two-day meeting surfaced many tensions between technologists and policy makers. In general, Sarkozy led a camp pushing for further government regulation (such as HADOPI law in France) to protect minors, prevent or punish copyright infringement, and to encourage economic growth through electronic commerce. Participants such as John Perry Barlow, Yochai Benkler, Zuckerberg, and Schmidt spoke out during the event against tight regulatory control of the Internet. While the forum was publicized as a way for technology leaders to participate in the G8's thinking on Internet-related public policy, a copy of a communique from the G8 which was composed before the closing of the Forum was leaked to \"The New York Times\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24672454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24672454", "title": "Edwards v. Habib", "text": "Edwards v. Habib\n\nEdwards v. Habib, 397 F.2d 687 (D.C. Cir. 1968), was a case decided by the D.C. Circuit that includes the first recognition of retaliatory eviction as a defense to eviction in landlord-tenant law.\n\nPlaintiff Edwards rented property from defendant Habib on a month-to-month basis. Habib failed to address sanitary code violations brought up by Edwards, so Edwards reported Habib to the Department of Licenses and the Inspection Department. An inspection revealed 40 sanitary code violations, and Habib was ordered to rectify the violations. After the inspection, Habib obtained a default judgment against Edwards in a statutory eviction action.\n\nThe court held that a tenant cannot be evicted for reporting sanitary code violations, and this became known as the defense of retaliatory eviction.\n"}
{"id": "56302344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56302344", "title": "Evacuation of the Louvre museum art collection during World War II", "text": "Evacuation of the Louvre museum art collection during World War II\n\nDuring the beginning of the German invasions during World War II, Jacques Jaujard, the director of the French Musées Nationaux, foreshadowed the fall of France and decided to organize the evacuation of the Louvre art collection in province.\n\nOn 25 August 1939, the Louvre was closed for 3 days, officially for repairs. However, many of the Louvre art collection was hauled on trucks (203 vehicles transporting 1862 wooden cases) and sent to Château de Chambord. The crates had a marking to identify the importance of the art pieces they contained: a yellow circle for very valuable art pieces, green for major works and red for world treasures (the Mona Lisa was marked with three red circles).\n\nSome of the art pieces were too big to be fit in a truck. For example The Raft of the Medusa had to be covered with a blanket. When the truck initially arrived at Versailles on his route to Chambord, the canvas touched an electric cable and created a short-circuit which switched off the electricity in the whole town. After that, the routes were carefully planned to avoid this type of problems, and attendants which poles were responsible to deal with electric or phone cables.\n\nThe last art piece to leave the museum was the Winged Victory of Samothrace, which was moved on September 3, 1939, the day the French ultimatum to Germany expired.\n\nThroughout the war, the arts pieces were clandestinely moved from chateau to chateau to avoid being taken back by the Nazis. For example, the \"Mona Lisa\" was moved from Chambord to several castles and abbeys, to finish at the end of the war at the Musée Ingres in Montauban.\n\nOn 16 August 1940, count Franz von Wolff-Metternich, who was responsible of the conservation of the French art collections under the Kunstschutz principle, arrived in Paris to oversee France’s art collection, but the museum was almost empty. He knew what was going on but voluntarily did not do anything.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33850087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33850087", "title": "Flexible citizenship", "text": "Flexible citizenship\n\nFlexible Citizenship is an ideology on citizenship that asserts that economic reasons are the primary reason people choose their citizenship as opposed to identifying with a community based on shared political rights.\n\nFlexible citizenship is a form of citizenship that redefines the traditional citizenship view based on membership of political rights and participation within a nation state. Flexible citizenship is arguably based on that globalization has made economic concerns the major contributing factor in people in ‘choosing’ their citizenship as opposed to citizenship based on an allegiance to country’s government. Therefore, people arguably will choose their citizenship based on economic reasons rather than political rights or participation within what nation state they reside.\n\nThe thought of flexible citizenship has arisen over the past few decades after the Cold War. Due to the growing changes and increasing levels of technology in the world, flexible citizenship has become applicable to many migrants within many different states. Globalization has been the primary reason for the development of various new forms of citizenship. Due to Globalization, the access to borders has become increasingly easier for people to move from nation to nation. Also, it has given people the greater opportunity to gain access on information where the greatest accesses to jobs are held. Due to the great migrations and interconnected borders that have arisen from globalization, traditional citizenship has been challenged by various scholars who have brought forth new thoughts of how citizenship should work in the contemporary world. For instance, the Cosmopolitan scholars such as Nussbaum and Appiah and Post-national citizenship theorists have challenged the view of looking towards citizenship as purely based on rights to political participation.\nThis form of citizenship could arguably been derived from a form of transnational citizenship that is clearly seen in contemporary society. These individuals travel to nations to find employment, but do not have the same the traditional rights (such as political rights) that residents gain in their society. Although most of these migrants lack political rights, they do have some employment rights in countries like the United States.\n\nAs it is true that populations of people have been traveling around the world all of history to find greater access to economic gains, it has never been this numerous. Predominantly during the 1980s, there began an increasing trend of populations (predominantly from Taiwan and Hong Kong) to travel around the world to search for work to send back to their families in their country of origin. Many people from these areas searched for as migration workers in the United States, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. However, it not just migration workers that use this flexible citizenship for their advantage. Numerous Chinese elites send their children overseas to these countries universities to gain access to an elite education that will benefit them in country of origin, and could also set up important business connections that could benefit their country of origin. This term of the “astronaut family” has been developed to challenge the traditional view of the nuclear family. \n\nWithin in some countries in Europe, it is clear to see some contemporary examples of flexible citizenship. The example of Turkish guest workers in Germany is a great example of both transnationalism and flexible citizenship. For instance, after World War II there was shortage of able-bodied men to work lower position jobs, therefore migrant workers from many different countries were recruited to take this position. Primarily, these guest workers came from Turkey to fill these positions. Although there was initially a rule of ‘quick return’ for the migrant workers, the German government realized it was more profitable to keep the migrant workers there, and issued them guest worker permits that let these Turkish guest workers stay indefinitely.\n\nIn the United States, it is clear to see more examples of flexible citizenship with looking towards the migrant workers in the Southwest. As stated early, migrant workers in the United States have the rights to information on workers compensation and a minimum wage. However, many of these migrant workers live below the poverty line and do not receive these wages due to the fear of deportation. The primary argument that most of these migrants have left their country of origin is once again economic concerns, and finding job opportunities in the United States. For instance, there are abundance of farmwork jobs in the United States that many United States citizens are unwilling to work. Therefore, many of these migrant workers are granted permit residence as a result.\n\n"}
{"id": "2366055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2366055", "title": "Free Access to Law Movement", "text": "Free Access to Law Movement\n\nThe Free Access to Law Movement (FALM) is the international movement and organization devoted to providing free online access to legal information such as case law, legislation, treaties, law reform proposals and legal scholarship. The movement began in 1992 with the creation of the Legal Information Institute (LII) by Thomas R. Bruce and Peter W. Martin at Cornell Law School. Some later FALM projects incorporate \"Legal Information Institute\" or \"LII\" in their names, usually prefixed by a national or regional identifier.\n\nThe FALM website lists 63 active members as of July 2017, together with the coverage (geographical area or political grouping) for which each member provides databases, and the year in which it became a member of FALM, as well as links to member websites:\n\n\nIn October 2002 the meeting of LIIs in Montreal at the 4th Law via Internet Conference, made the following declaration as a joint statement of their philosophy of access to law. There were some further modifications of the Declaration at the Sydney meeting of LIIs in 2003 and at the Paris meeting in 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "220895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220895", "title": "Grandparent visitation", "text": "Grandparent visitation\n\nGrandparent visitation is a legal right that grandparents in some jurisdictions may have to have court-ordered contact (or visitation) with their grandchildren.\n\nIn the United States, most states have statutes that describe when a third party, such as a grandparent, may ask a court to grant them the legal right to maintain ongoing contact with somebody else's child. Many states have laws that specifically address the rights of grandparents. However, a federal Supreme Court decision called Troxel v. Granville places limits on when states can grant visitation rights to third parties, including grandparents.\n\nState laws vary greatly, and no state guarantees that the grandparents will be able to obtain a court order granting them visitation, unless it is in the best interests of the child. The rationale behind these laws is that sometimes, especially with the death of a parent or in a family that has undergone divorce, the children may not have the opportunity to have contact with the non-custodial parent and his relatives, thus fostering continued familial bonds. Those opposing this view say that court-ordered grandparent visitation infringes upon the fundamental right of fit parents to raise their child in the manner that they see fit (including the right to decide with whom the child will associate). Grandparent's rights to see their grandchildren, following death, divorce, child born out of wedlock, or where the child does not reside in the home of a parent, was first created by Bloomfield Hills, Michigan Family Law Attorney, Richard S. Victor who later went on to form the national nonprofit Grandparents Rights Organization (GRO) in the early 1980's and which still exists today. \n\nIn mosts states grandparent rights exists however, the grandparent must obtain their own attorney. They will not be awarded an assigned counsel. \n\nOrganizations, like the Grandparents Rights Organization, are working on some changes in the law to provide grandparents automatic visitation upon the death of a parent (their child) to allow for continued family interaction with that part of their family. \n\nIn the case of \"Troxel v. Granville\", the United States Supreme Court stated that \"the interest of parents in the care, custody and control of their children--is perhaps the oldest of the fundamental liberty interests recognized by this Court.\" The Supreme Court also made it clear that this fundamental right is implicated in grandparent visitation cases. The plurality opinion stated at the outset that statutes allowing grandparent visitation orders to be imposed over parental objection \"present questions of constitutional import.\" However, the court clearly held that the states that did have grandparent visitation laws would not be held unconstitutional on their face, as requested in the case. The Supreme Court declared that a parent's fundamental right to the \"care, custody and control of their children\" was \"at issue in this case.\" They held that in order for state laws to be constitutional, three things need to be in the law: 1) If there is a claim or action filed, it is the grandparent that has the burden of proof; 2) The court should give \"deference\" to a \"fit\" parent's decision; and 3) The grandparent may still proceed with their request for grandparent visitation and overcome being denied contact; and each state should have a set of factors for the court to evaluate when deciding to either grant or deny a grandparent's request, over a parent's objections. The Supreme Court struck down the Washington visitation statute because it was not their grandparent visitation statute that was being evaluated and the statute that the grandparent filed under was \"over broad\" and too excessive. Prior to the case being heard by the US Supreme Court, the state legislature in Washington repelled the law in question, but allowed their grandparent visitation law to remain in place, as that law was never challenged in the case. \n\nState courts considering non-parent visitation petitions must apply \"a presumption that fit parents act in the best interests of their children.\". \"Troxel\" requires that state courts must give \"deference\" or some special weight to a fit parent's decision to deny non-parent visitation. \"Choices [parents make] about the upbringing of children... are among constitutional rights, but were not an absolute right... sheltered by the Fourteenth Amendment against the State's unwarranted usurpation, disregard, or disrespect.\" This principle must inform the understanding of the \"special weight\" that \"Troxel\" requires courts to give to parents' decisions concerning whether, when and how grandparents will associate with their children. Even though \"Troxel\" does not define \"special weight,\" previous Supreme Court precedent indicates that \"special weight\" is a strong term signifying very considerable deference. The \"special weight\" requirement, as illuminated by these prior Supreme Court cases, means that the deference provided to the parent's wishes will be overcome only by some compelling governmental interest and by overwhelmingly clear factual circumstances supporting that governmental interest.\n"}
{"id": "50616121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50616121", "title": "Grenadian nationality law", "text": "Grenadian nationality law\n\nThe Grenadian nationality law is governed by the Grenada Citizenship Act (Chapter 54) and the Grenada Constitution of 1973.\n\nIn general, everyone born in Grenada from 1974 or later acquires Grenadian citizenship at birth. The exception is only for children born to diplomat parents.\n\nChildren born outside of Grenada to a Grenadian-born parent may automatically apply for a Grenadian passport. Children of Grenadian parentage must attach Grenadian birth certificate of parent(s) so as to establish parental claim.\n\nRegistration is a simpler method of acquiring citizenship than naturalization, but certain people are eligible.\n\n\n\nGrenadian law allows their citizens to hold dual citizenship.\n\nGrenadian citizens enjoy the following rights (subject to certain exceptions):\n\nAs Commonwealth citizens, Grenadians are afforded a number of privileges in some Commonwealth countries.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Grenadian citizens enjoy the following privileges:\n\n\nIn New Zealand, Mauritius, Malawi and many Commonwealth countries in the Caribbean, Grenadian citizens who are long-term residents have the right to vote in elections.\n\nVisa requirements for Grenadian citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Grenada. As of October 2018, Grenadian citizens had visa-free or visa-on-arrival access to 144 countries and territories, ranking the ordinary Grenadian passport 33rd in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\nNon-Commonwealth nationals may be required to swear an oath of allegiance to the Queen of Grenada:\n\nI, A.B., do solemnly and sincerely affirm and declare that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second, Her Heirs and Successors, according to law, and that I will faithfully observe the laws of Grenada and full my duties as a citizen of Grenada. So help me God.\n\nGrenadian citizens who require consular assistance in a foreign country where there is no Grenadian foreign mission may be able to request assistance from a British Embassy, high commission or consulate. For example, Grenadians who need to travel urgently and whose passport has expired, been lost or stolen can be issued with an emergency travel document by a British foreign mission as long as this has cleared with the Grenadian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\nAny citizen of Grenada of full age and capacity may voluntary renounce his or her citizenship as of Section 10 of the Grenada Citizenship Act, 1976.\n\nPrior to 1974 persons connected with Grenada held British nationality. Grenadians were mainly classified as Citizens of UK and Colonies (CUKCs). Upon independence from the United Kingdom, Grenada became a commonwealth realm with HM Queen Elizabeth II as Head of State.\n\nPersons connected with Grenada at independence may have retained citizenship of the UK and colonies if:\n\nSuch persons would have become British citizens on 1 January 1983 if they had specified ties to the UK. Otherwise they would have become British Overseas Citizens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1059045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1059045", "title": "Hybrid offence", "text": "Hybrid offence\n\nA hybrid offence, dual offence, Crown option offence, dual procedure offence, offence triable either way or wobbler is one of the special class offences in the common law jurisdictions where the case may be prosecuted either summarily or as indictment. In the United States, an alternative misdemeanor/felony offense (colloquially known as a wobbler) lists both county jail (misdemeanor sentence) and state prison (felony sentence) as possible punishment. Similarly, a wobblette is a crime that can be charged either as a misdemeanor or an infraction.\n\nThe power to choose under which class a hybrid offence will be tried rests with the crown counsel. Hybrid offences can either be summary offences (minor crimes) or indictable offences (major crimes). For most indictable offences, a person has the right to trial by jury.\n\nA hybrid offence is the most common type of charge in Canada. There are three types of charges and each will affect when you can apply for a Record Suspension.\n\nUnder the Criminal Records Act, Section 2.1, the Parole Board of Canada is the administrative tribunal that has the exclusive authority to make decisions regarding Record Suspensions. A Record Suspension is a formal means to remove the disadvantages associated with having a Criminal Record for people that have been convicted of a criminal offence. In order to apply for a Record Suspension an individual must complete an application that is later reviewed by the Board and a decision to grant, or deny the application is made by an officer. Under Section 7, the Parole Board of Canada also has the ability to revoke granted Record Suspensions if there is a breach in good conduct on the part of the applicant or if a person reoffends and commits an indictable offence and even in some cases a summary offence.\n\nIn relation to England and Wales, the expression \"offence triable either way\" means an offence, other than an offence triable on indictment only by virtue of Part V of the Criminal Justice Act 1988, which, if committed by an adult, is triable either on indictment or summarily; and the term \"triable either way\", in its application to offences, is to be construed accordingly. In this definition, references to the ways in which an offence is triable are to be construed without regard to the effect, if any, of section 22 of the Magistrates' Courts Act 1980 on the mode of trial in a particular case.\n\nIn English criminal law a hybrid offence is called a \"triable-either-way offence\" and can be heard at either the Magistrates' Court or Crown Court. The decision as to which court will hear the case is determined at a Mode of Trial hearing.\n\nThe magistrates decide if the case is suitable to be heard in the Magistrates' Court. If they decide that the case is either too serious or too complex, they can send the case to the Crown Court in which case the defendant has no say in the matter. If the magistrates decide that the case is suitable to be heard by the magistrates then the defendant is asked for consent to do so. The defendant can then either consent to be tried by the magistrates or opt for trial by jury at the Crown Court provided that they have pleaded not guilty. If they have pleaded guilty then they have no say in the matter - thus there is no way for a defendant to agree to plead guilty in exchange for having a case dealt with by magistrates.\n\nIf the defendant is tried summarily in the Magistrates' Court and is convicted, there may still be a committal to the Crown Court for sentencing if the magistrates think that their sentencing powers are inadequate.\n\nThe expression \"hybrid offence\" was applicable to an offence triable either on indictment or summarily. It was applicable to offences to which section 18 of the Magistrates' Courts Act 1952 applied.\n\nSee sections 14(c) and 64 of the Criminal Law Act 1977.\n\nIn Scots law, all common law offences other than those within the exclusive jurisdiction of the High Court of Justiciary (i.e. murder, treason, rape and breach of duty by magistrates) can be tried either summarily in the justice of the peace courts or Sheriff Courts, or on indictment in the High Court of Justiciary or Sheriff Court. For statutory offences, the statute will provide whether the offence is triable summarily, on indictment, or both. \n\nThe choice of forum is a matter for the Lord Advocate and procurator fiscal, and is determined in a process known as marking.\n\nIn U.S. states in which these offenses occur, the prosecuting attorney has discretion in deciding which category to charge the defendant. Prosecutors may strategically file such offenses as felonies, agreeing to refile the charge as a misdemeanor should the defendant consent to a guilty plea.\n\nAfter hearing evidence at a preliminary hearing, the judge or magistrate has discretion to reduce a felony wobbler to a misdemeanor charge; the opposite is not permitted.\n\nIn juvenile court, after a minor is declared to be delinquent following a bench trial or open plea, the judge may classify a wobbler felony as a misdemeanor instead.\n\nIn California, one example of a wobbler offense is grand theft (PC487). In this case, the judge has the power to reduce a felony charge of this type to a misdemeanor during various stages of the proceeding, including the preliminary hearing all the way until after a defendant completes probation.\n"}
{"id": "25543051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25543051", "title": "Idle (engine)", "text": "Idle (engine)\n\nIdling refers to running a vehicle's engine when the vehicle is not in motion. This commonly occurs when drivers are stopped at a red light, waiting while parked outside a business or residence, or otherwise stationary with the engine running. When idling, the engine runs without any loads except the engine accessories.\n\nBoth running an engine and idling an engine produce several pollutants that are monitored by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA):\n\nIt is often believed that stopping and restarting the engine uses more gas than idling. In reality, an engine restart uses fuel approximately equal to 10 seconds of idling.\nRestarting the engine also causes less engine wear than idling.\n\nSource:\n\nHealth effects of idling are related to engine exhaust, and include acute effects such as eye, throat, and bronchial irritation; nausea; cough, phlegm congestion; allergic or asthma-like respiratory response; increased risk for cardiac events; cancer, and chronic effects, such as bronchitis, decreased lung function, damage to reproductive function (low birth weight and damage to sperm chromatin and DNA).\n\nThese health effects are more damaging in those with preexisting heart disease, asthma, or other lung problems. Children are also more susceptible, due to their faster breathing rate and the fact that their respiratory system is still developing. Idling pollutants also disproportionately affect the elderly, who have limited physiological reserve to compensate for the adverse effects of the pollutants.\n\nEffort has been made to reduce the amount of time engines spend idling, chiefly due to fuel economy and emissions concerns, although some engines can also be damaged if kept idling for extended periods. In the United States, about a billion gallons (3.8 billion liters) of fuel is consumed by idling heavy-duty truck and locomotive engines each year. Many newer semi-trucks have small auxiliary power units (APUs) to run accessories more efficiently while the truck is parked. Hybrid vehicles typically shut down their internal combustion engines while stopped, although some conventional vehicles are also including start-stop systems to shut off the engine when it would otherwise idle.\n\nAt the macro level, governments can implement strategies to reduce reliance on motorised transport, including investing in public transport and implementing transit-oriented development.\n\nThe city of Toronto enacted the first idling bylaw (No. 673-1998 Chapter 517 in the Municipal Code) in Canada in 1996 to reduced idle time to 3 minutes for vehicles and marine vessels. There are plans by the health department to ask the bylaw to be amended to a limit of one minute and no exemptions to the city's fleet, including the Toronto Transit Commission buses.\n\nOther Canadian municipalities have followed Toronto's lead:\n\n\nIn a bid to reduce air pollution, the Hong Kong Government enacted the Motor Vehicle Idling (Fixed Penalty) Ordinance from December 2011. The law prohibits drivers from idling for more than three minutes in any 60-minute period. Both police traffic wardens and inspectors of the Environmental Protection Department can fine offenders HK$320.\n\nBoth the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency have programs in place to reduce idling. The DOE is funding research and development for alternative and advanced vehicles, which includes the gathering of quantitative data on medium-duty trucks, examining idling reduction alternatives, and the CoolCab project for semi-truck curtains and installation. The EPA's programs include the Environmental Technology Verification Program, the Smart Way Transport Partnership (freight incentives), the Model State Idling Law (diesel) and Clean School Bus USA.\n\nAll but 11 states have at least one incentive or law in place to reduce idling, while 7 states have at least four. The state of Colorado has in place a tax credit for alternative fuel and qualified idle reduction technologies, as well as the Green Truck Grant Program which allows the Governor's Energy Office to provide reimbursement of up to 25% of costs to owners of commercial trucks used in interstate commerce to reduce emissions.\n\nThere are many local ordinances and programs to discourage idling, such as ordinances limiting the minutes per hour in which a vehicle can idle. One example of a local program is Denver, Colorado's Engines Off! citywide anti-idling campaign, which aims to improve air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by promoting voluntary behavior change in idling behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "25408080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25408080", "title": "International law and Israeli settlements", "text": "International law and Israeli settlements\n\nThe international community considers the establishment of Israeli settlements in the Israeli-occupied territories illegal under international law, because of the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 which states: \"The Occupying Power shall not deport or transfer parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies.\" Israel maintains that it is not in violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention since Israeli citizens were neither deported nor transferred to the territories, and they cannot be considered to have become \"occupied territory\" since there had been no internationally recognized legal sovereign prior. The United Nations Security Council, the United Nations General Assembly, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the International Court of Justice and the High Contracting Parties to the Convention have all affirmed that the Fourth Geneva Convention does apply.\n\nNumerous UN resolutions have stated that the building and existence of Israeli settlements in the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights are a violation of international law, including UN Security Council resolutions in 1979, 1980, and 2016. UN Security Council Resolution 446 refers to the Fourth Geneva Convention as the applicable international legal instrument, and calls upon Israel to desist from transferring its own population into the territories or changing their demographic makeup. The reconvened Conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Geneva Conventions has declared the settlements illegal as has the primary judicial organ of the UN, the International Court of Justice and the International Committee of the Red Cross.\n\nThe position of successive Israeli governments is that all authorized settlements are entirely legal and consistent with international law, despite Israel's armistice agreements all being with High Contracting Parties. In practice, Israel does not accept that the Fourth Geneva Convention applies \"de jure\", but has stated that on humanitarian issues it will govern itself \"de facto\" by its provisions, without specifying which these are. The majority of legal scholars hold the settlements to violate international law, while others have offered dissenting views supporting the Israeli position.\nShortly after independence, the Israeli Supreme Court ruled that the fundamental principles of international law, accepted as binding by all civilized nations, were to be incorporated in the domestic legal system of Israel. In the aftermath of the 1967 Six-Day War, Israel occupied the Sinai Peninsula, the Gaza Strip, West Bank and Golan Heights. Immediately after the war, the Israeli government authorised the construction of military settlements for security purposes. They were built on the fringes of the territories, along the Jordanian and Syrian frontiers and along the edges of the Sinai Peninsula. At the same time, Israel conveyed that it was willing in principle to return most of the newly captured territory. Levi Eshkol offered to return the territories with only minor border modifications. Nevertheless, with government permission granted, Kfar Etzion was re-established in September 1967, becoming the first civilian settlement to be built in the West Bank. During the 1970s, Israel's Supreme Court regularly ruled that the establishment of civilian settlements by military commanders was legal on the basis that they formed part of the territorial defense network and were considered temporary measures needed for military and security purposes. After Likud came to power in 1977, using land on the basis of the 1907 Hague Regulations, which implied a temporary nature of Israeli presence, was not employed anymore as the new government declared land in the West Bank \"state land\".\n\nIn 1978 and 1979 the Israeli Supreme court, prompted by the new government policies, ruled on two important cases that set out the requirements for Israeli settlement legality under international law. In Ayauub \"et al.\" vs. Minister of Defence (the Beit-El Toubas case), the Court determined that the Hague Conventions but not the Geneva Conventions could be applied by Israeli courts on land and settlement issues in the occupied territories. The following year the Court ruled on Dwikat \"et al.\" vs. the Government of Israel (the Elon Moreh case), outlining the Hague Conventions' limitations on Israeli land acquisition and settlements. Settlements, whether on private or public land, could not be considered permanent, nor could the land be permanently confiscated, only temporarily requisitioned. Settlements on private land were legal only if determined to be a military necessity; the original owner retained title to the land and must be paid rental fees for its use. Public lands' \"possession cannot be alienated, nor its basic character transformed\".\n\nIn 2004, an advisory opinion by the International Court of Justice concluded that Israel had breached its obligations under international law by establishing settlements in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem and that Israel cannot rely on a right of self-defence or on a state of necessity in order to preclude the wrongfulness of imposing a régime, which is contrary to international law. The Court also concluded that the Israeli régime violates the basic human rights of the Palestinians by impeding the liberty of movement of the inhabitants of the Occupied Palestinian Territory (with the exception of Israeli citizens) and their exercise of the right to work, to health, to education and to an adequate standard of living.\n\nAlthough all areas in question were captured by Israel in the 1967 Six-Day War, Israel has treated them in three different ways:\n\nThe Jerusalem Law and the Golan Heights Law have both been deemed illegal by the UN Security Council (resolutions 478 and 497 respectively), and are not recognized by the international community. The United States abstained from the vote on Resolution 478 and the U.S. Congress (which does not define U.S. foreign policy) passed the Jerusalem Embassy Act, recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. The U.S. views that parts of Jerusalem are not in Israel and the official U.S. position is that the status of Jerusalem must be resolved in negotiations. The EU views that Jerusalem is a \"corpus separatum\", and the United Nations considers Israel's proclamation of Jerusalem as its capital to be \"null and void\".\n\nIsrael has signed peace treaties with Egypt (removing all Israeli settlements and returning the Sinai Peninsula to Egyptian sovereignty), and Jordan (returning small sections to Jordanian sovereignty); there are currently no peace treaties governing Israel's borders related to the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, and the Golan Heights. Israel therefore asserts that the armistice lines (known as the Green Line) of 1949 have no other legal status.\n\nPalestinians object to this view as the Israel–Jordan peace treaty was not to alter the status of any territories coming under Israeli control during the hostilities of 1967 (article 3(2) of the Israel–Jordan peace treaty).\n\nArticle 8(2)(b)(viii) of the International Criminal Court Rome Statute defines \"[t]he transfer, directly or indirectly, by the Occupying Power of parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies\" as a war crime. Israel did initially sign the statute, but later declared its intention not to ratify it.\n\nAt present, based on the result of numerous UN resolutions that cite Article 49 of the Geneva Convention, the consensus view of the international community is that Israeli settlements are illegal and constitute a violation of international law. According to the BBC, every government in the world, except Israel, considers the settlements to be illegal.\n\nIn 1979 and 1980, numerous UN Security council resolutions, including 446, 452, 465, 471 and 476, considered the settlements as having \"no legal validity\" under the Fourth Geneva Convention. Security Council Resolution 2334, approved in December 2016 reaffirms the settlements lack of legal validity, and terms them \"a flagrant violation under international law and a major obstacle to the achievement of the two-State solution and a just, lasting and comprehensive peace.\" In 2004, an advisory opinion by the primary judicial organ of the UN, the International Court of Justice, also found the settlements to be illegal under international law. The court's finding was based on the provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention and UN Security Council resolutions that condemned the establishment of settlements and attempts by Israel to alter the demographics of the territories under its control. The United Nations General Assembly, which regards itself as having a chief role in the process of the codification of international law, has passed several resolutions with an overwhelming majority that denounce settlements as being illegal. The United Nations Human Rights Council has also called the Israeli settlements and related activities a violation of international law.\n\nAccording to records of the 1998 meeting of Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, Theo van Boven saidThe status of the settlements was clearly inconsistent with Article 3 of the Convention, which, as noted in the Committee's General Recommendation XIX, prohibited all forms of racial segregation in all countries. There is a consensus among publicists that the prohibition of racial discrimination, irrespective of territories, is an imperative norm of international law.\n\nThe International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) holds that the establishment of Israeli settlements violate Fourth Geneva Convention. The ICRC also holds that the displacement of Palestinians that may occur due to the settlements also violates Article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention.\n\nAn opinion by a legal adviser to the U.S. Department of State found the settlements contrary to international law in 1978. On April 21, 1978, Legal Adviser of the Department of State Herbert J. Hansel issued an opinion, on request from Congress, that creating the settlements \"is inconsistent with international law\", and against Article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention. Hansell found that \"[w]hile Israel may undertake, in the occupied territories, actions necessary to meet its military needs and to provide for orderly government during the occupation, for the reasons indicated above the establishment of the civilian settlements in those territories is inconsistent with international law.\" This opinion, \"has neither been revoked or revised\", and remains the policy of the United States according to Hansel, \"The Washington Post\", and the Rand Corporation's Palestinian State Study Project, and Secretary of State John Kerry. The Johnson, Nixon, Ford, Carter, and Obama administrations all publicly characterized the settlements as illegal.\n\nThe United States has never voted in favor of any UN Resolution calling the settlements illegal except for Resolution 465 in 1980, and in that case the Carter administration subsequently announced that the vote had been cast in error due to miscommunication and would have abstained as it had for Resolution 446 and Resolution 452. Three US Ambassadors to the UN have stated that Israeli settlements are illegal: George H. W. Bush (later US president) on September 25, 1971, William Scranton on May 25, 1976, and Samantha Power on December 23, 2016. Secretaries of State Cyrus Vance and John Kerry also said the settlements were illegal.\n\nIn February 1981, Ronald Reagan announced that he didn't believe that Israeli settlements in the West Bank were illegal. He added that \"the UN resolution leaves the West Bank open to all people, Arab and Israeli alike\". Hoping to achieve a peace deal, he nevertheless asked Israel to freeze construction calling the settlements an \"obstacle to peace\". The permissive attitude taken by America accelerated the pace of Israel's settlement programme. Reagan's view on the settlements legality was not held by the State Department. The George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush administrations did not publicly comment on the legality of Israeli settlements, but spoke publicly against them. Since the Clinton administration, the U.S. has continued to object to the settlements, calling them \"obstacles to peace\" and prejudicial to the outcome of final status talks. Although President Barack Obama and diplomatic officials in his administration have stated, \"the United States does not accept the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlements,\" in February 2011 the U.S. vetoed a Security Council resolution that would have declared the settlements illegal. In December 2016, the U.S. abstained on a Security Council Resolution that declared that Israeli settlements are illegal and deemed their continuing construction a \"flagrant violation\" of international law. In abstaining, U.S. Ambassador Samantha Power stated, \"Today the Security Council reaffirmed its established consensus that the settlements have no legal validity. The United States has been sending a message that settlements must stop privately and publicly for nearly five decades.\"\n\nThe Israeli government's essential position is that rather than being \"occupied territory,\" the West Bank is \"disputed territory.\" Given that the Arab states prevented the formation of the sovereignty proposed by the 1947 partition resolution, Jordan's subsequent unrecognized annexation of the West Bank in 1950, as well as the fact that there has never been a Palestinian sovereignty in that territory, it has been posited that there is no legally recognized claim to who has sovereignty over the West Bank. Moreover, since the League of Nations Mandate for Palestine, with the intent to form a Jewish state between the sea and the Jordan river, included the area now known as the West Bank, Israel has at least as legitimate claim to the territory as any other state or group.\nUnder the views of Howard Grief and others, according to Article 6 of The Anglo-American Treaty of 1924, Jewish Settlements are not illegal. The rights granted to and guaranteed by Mandate for Palestine survived the League of Nations and the Anglo-American Treaty of 1924 still has the force of law pursuant to Article 80 of the UN Charter by virtue of the 1969 Vienna Convention on the Laws of Treaties.\nUnder this reasoning the Fourth Geneva Convention prohibits forced population transfers, something that Israel is not engaged in since Jewish settlers move to the disputed territories on an individual, voluntary basis. \nIn 1967, Theodor Meron, legal counsel to the Israeli Foreign Ministry stated in a legal opinion to Adi Yafeh, the Political Secretary of the Prime Minister, \"My conclusion is that civilian settlement in the administered territories contravenes the explicit provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention.\" The legal opinion, forwarded to Levi Eshkol, was not made public at the time, and the Labor cabinet progressively sanctioned settlements anyway; this action paved the way for future settlement growth. In 2007, Judge Meron stated that \"I believe that I would have given the same opinion today.\" Nevertheless, Israel considers its settlement policy to be consistent with international law, including the Fourth Geneva Convention, while recognizing that some of the smaller settlements have been constructed \"illegally\" in the sense of being in violation of Israeli law. In 1998 the Israeli Minister of Foreign Affairs produced \"The International Criminal Court Background Paper\". It concludesInternational law has long recognised that there are crimes of such severity they should be considered \"international crimes\". Such crimes have been established in treaties such as the Genocide Convention and the Geneva Conventions... The following are Israel's primary issues of concern [ie with the rules of the ICC]: – The inclusion of settlement activity as a \"war crime\" is a cynical attempt to abuse the Court for political ends. The implication that the transfer of civilian population to occupied territories can be classified as a crime equal in gravity to attacks on civilian population centres or mass murder is preposterous and has no basis in international law.\n\nIsrael also argues that some of the settlements are built in areas where Jewish settlements existed before the 1948 Arab-Israeli War and violence prior, when many West Bank settlements were destroyed and the residents massacred or expelled, such as Hartuv, Kfar Etzion, Hebron, and the Jewish Quarter of Jerusalem, and therefore the application of the Geneva Convention is an entirely different issue.\n\nSome argue that according to international law Israel is the custodian of absentee property in the West Bank and may not give it to settlers. In 1997 the Civil Administration's legal adviser gave his opinion:\nThe Custodian of Absentee Property in the West Bank is nothing but a trustee looking after the property so it is not harmed while the owners are absent from the area ... the custodian may not make any transaction regarding the asset that conflicts with the obligation to safeguard the asset as stated, especially his obligation to return the asset to the owner upon his return to the region.\n\nIsrael contends that the Geneva Convention only applies in the absence of an operative peace agreement and between two powers accepting the Convention. Since the Oslo Accords leave the issue of settlements to be negotiated later, proponents of this view argue that the Palestinians accepted the temporary presence of Israeli settlements pending further negotiation, and that there is no basis for declaring them illegal.\n\nIsrael has justified its civilian settlements by stating that a temporary use of land and buildings for various purposes appears permissible under a plea of military necessity and that the settlements fulfilled security needs. It is further argued that United Nations Security Council Resolution 242 calls for \"secure and recognized boundaries\", and that neither the 1949 armistice demarcation lines, nor the 1967 cease-fire lines have proved themselves secure.\n\nIn 2002, the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs reiterated that the settlements were being developed consistently with international law and that they did not violate any agreements with either the Palestinians or Jordan. They added that the settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip were recognised as legitimate by the Mandate for Palestine adopted by the League of Nations, and that the only administration that completely prohibited Jewish settlement was that of Jordan from 1948 to 1967. Regarding the Geneva Convention, they maintained that the Israeli government was not forcibly transferring its population into the territories. Neither had the land that was being settled been under the legitimate sovereignty of any state beforehand. It further highlighted that no clauses in the Convention could be used to prohibit the voluntary return of individuals to towns and villages from which they or their ancestors had been previously ejected by forcible means. It claimed the settlements had only been established after exhaustive investigations making sure none were built on private land.\n\nCanada, agreeing with UN Security Council Resolutions 446 and 465, argues that the Fourth Geneva Convention applies to the occupied territories (the Golan Heights, the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip) and that Israeli settlements are a violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention.\n\nIn 2009, British Foreign Secretary David Miliband called Israeli settlements as \"illegal\". In December 2012, William Hague, the British foreign secretary stated that all Israeli settlements were \"illegal under international law\".\n\nIn 2003, The Non-Aligned Movement declared Israeli settlements as illegal, stating, \"the main danger to the realization of the national rights of the Palestinian people and the achievement of a peaceful solution is the settler colonialism that has been carried out in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, since 1967, through land confiscation, settlement building and the transfer of Israeli nationals to the Occupied Territory.\" The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation views settlements, including those in East Jerusalem, as \"blatant violations of the relevant United Nations resolution, international agreements – especially the 1949 Fourth Geneva Convention – and of international law\". In 2002 and again in 2012, The European Union expressed its view that the settlements are illegal. In June 1980, the (then nine-member) European Economic Community declared in the Venice Declaration that \"settlements, as well as modifications in population and property in the occupied Arab territories, are illegal under international law.\" In 2005, The human rights groups Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and B'Tselem viewed Israeli settlements as violations of international law, while the Anti-Defamation League has stated that the settlements are legal under international law.\n\nMorris B. Abram, an American lawyer who was involved in drafting the Fourth Geneva Convention, argued that the convention \"was not designed to cover situations like Israeli settlements in the occupied territories, but rather the forcible transfer, deportation or resettlement of large numbers of people.\" International law expert Julius Stone, Professor of Jurisprudence and International Law at the University of Sydney, and Eugene Rostow, Dean of Yale Law School, argued that the settlements are legal under international law, on a number of different grounds. Stone held that it was legal for Israel to establish Nahal settlements, necessary for military purposes along the ceasefire lines and in the Jordan Valley. The fact that they had been established to initiate profitable agriculture was of no legal concern. William M. Brinton, an American international lawyer, held that Israel was \"at least quasi-sovereign with respect to both areas [the West Bank and Gaza Strip] under principles of customary international law\", and deemed the settlements legal.\n\nThere are two disputes regarding the Fourth Geneva Convention: whether the convention applies to the territories in question and whether the Convention forbids the establishment of Israeli settlements. Article 2 concerns the applicability of the Convention whereas article 49 concerns the legality of population transfers.\n\nArticle 2 extends the Convention to \"all cases of declared war or of any other armed conflict which may arise between two or more of the High Contracting Parties\" and \"all cases of partial or total occupation of the territory of a High Contracting Party\".\n\nThe applicability of the fourth Geneva Convention to \"all the territories occupied by Israel in 1967\" is held with \"a remarkable degree of unanimity\" among international actors. In a 2004 advisory opinion to the UN General Assembly, the International Court of Justice stated that Article 2 of the Convention applied to the case of Israel's presence in the territories captured during the 1967 war. It stated that Article 2 applies if there exists an armed conflict between two contracting parties, regardless of the territories' status in international law prior to the armed attack. It also argued that \"no territorial acquisition resulting from the threat or use of force shall be recognized as legal\" according to customary international law and defined by \"Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations\" (General Assembly Resolution 2625).\n\nAt their July 1999 Conference, the States parties to the Fourth Geneva Convention issued a statement in which they \"reaffirmed the applicability of the Fourth Geneva Convention to the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem\". In December 2001, the High Contracting Parties to the Convention reaffirmed the \"applicability of the Fourth Geneva Convention to the Occupied Palestiniari Territory, including East Jerusalem\". They further reminded the contracting parties, the parties to the conflict and the state of Israel as the occupying power, of their obligations under the Convention.\n\nThe International Committee of the Red Cross in a declaration of December 2001 stated that \"the ICRC has always affirmed the \"de jure\" applicability of the Fourth Geneva Convention to the territories occupied since 1967 by the state of Israel, including East Jerusalem\".\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly has affirmed the applicability of the Convention to the Palestinian Territories in many resolutions. The United Nations Security Council has taken the same view. Security Council resolution 271 (1969) called upon \"Israel scrupulously to observe the provisions of the Geneva Conventions and international law governing military occupation\". Security Council resolution 446 (1979) affirmed \"\"once more\" that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, is applicable to the Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem\".\n\nThe Supreme Court of Israel in a ruling of 30 May 2004 declared, \"the military operations of the [Israeli Defence Forces] in Rafah, to the extent they affect civilians, are governed by Hague Convention IV Respecting the Laws and Customs of War on Land 1907 ... and the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War 1949.\" A further June 2004 Israeli Supreme Court ruling concerning the West Bank stated that \"the point of departure of all parties – which is also our point of departure – is that Israel holds the Area in belligerent occupation (\"occupatio bellica\")\" and that the military commander's authority is \"anchored in IV Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War 1949\".\n\nThe official Israeli legal argument against the application of Article 2 to the situation in the West Bank is based on a 1971 interpretation by Israeli Attorney-General, Meir Shamgar. His view was presented by Moshe Dayan in a speech before the 32nd session of the United Nations General Assembly in 1977. Shamgar believed that the Convention did not pertain to the territories captured by Israel since they had not previously been recognised as part of a sovereign state and could not be considered \"the territory of a High Contracting Party\". According to the argument, the last legal sovereignty over the territories was that of the League of Nations Palestine Mandate, which stipulated the right of the Jewish people to settle in the whole of the Mandated territory. According to Article 6 of the Mandate, \"close settlement by Jews on the land, including State lands not required for public use\" was to be encouraged. Article 25 allowed the League Council to temporarily postpone the Jewish right to settle in what is now Jordan, if conditions were not amenable. Article 80 of the U.N. Charter preserved this Jewish right to settlement by specifying, \"nothing in the [United Nations] Charter shall be construed ... to alter in any manner the rights whatsoever of any states or peoples or the terms of existing international instruments.\"\n\nShamgar further stated:There is no rule of international law according to which the Fourth Convention applies in each and every armed conflict whatever the status of the parties... The whole idea of the restriction of military government powers is based on the assumption that there has been a sovereign who was ousted and that he was a legitimate sovereign. Any other conception would lead to the conclusion, for example, that France should have acted in Alsace-Lorraine according to rule 42–56 of the Hague Rules of 1907, until the signing of a peace treaty.\n\nThe Israeli legal argument was dismissed by the International Court of Justice. The Court cited the Geneva Convention's \"travaux préparatoires\", which recommended that the conventions be applicable to any armed conflict \"whether [it] is or is not recognized as a state of war by the parties\" and \"in cases of occupation of territories in the absence of any state of war\" as confirmation that the drafters of the article had no intention of restricting the scope of its application. \n\nArticle 49 (1) states Individual or mass forcible transfers, as well as deportations of protected persons from occupied territory to the territory of the Occupying Power or to that of any other country, occupied or not, are prohibited, regardless of their motive.\n\nArticle 49 (6) states The Occupying Power shall not deport or transfer parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies.\n\nAccording to Jean Pictet of the International Committee of the Red Cross, this clause intended to prevent the World War II practice of an occupying power transferring \"portions of its own population to occupied territory for political and racial reasons or in order, as they claimed, to colonize those territories\", which in turn \"worsened the economic situation of the native population and endangered their separate existence as a race\".\n\nU.S. State Department Legal Advisor, Herbert J. Hansell, in a letter dated 1 April 1978, concluded that although Article 49 (1) prohibits \"forcible\" transfers of protected persons out of the occupied territory, \"paragraph 6 is not so limited.\"\n\nHe argued:\nThe view has been advanced that a transfer is prohibited under paragraph 6 only to the extent that it involves the displacement of the local population. Although one respected authority, Lauterpacht, evidently took this view, it is otherwise unsupported in the literature, in the rules of international law or in the language and negotiating history of the Convention, and it seems clearly not correct. Displacement of protected persons is dealt with separately in the Convention and paragraph 6 would seem redundant if limited to cases of displacement. Another view of paragraph 6 is that it is directed against mass population transfers such as occurred in World War II for political, racial or colonization ends; but there is no apparent support or reason for limiting its application to such cases.\n\nThs interpretation was adopted by the International Court of Justice in its 2004 advisory opinion, and 150 countries supported a non-binding General Assembly resolution demanding Israel to \"comply with its legal obligations as mentioned in the advisory opinion\".\n\nDavid Kretzmer, Professor of International Law at Hebrew University of Jerusalem, has argued that it is \"quite clear that by actively organizing or encouraging transfer of its own population into the occupied territory, an occupying power does indeed violate Article 49(6)\".\n\nThose who reject the application of Article 49 to the situation in the Israeli-held territories argue that even if the Convention did apply, it should be read only in the context of the World War II forcible migrations. It is only intended to cover \"forcible\" transfers and to protect the \"local population\" from displacement:\n\nIn addition, they state that the Geneva Convention only applies in the absence of an operative peace agreement and between two powers accepting the Convention. Since the Oslo Accords leave the issue of settlements to be negotiated later, proponents of this view argue that the Palestinians accepted the temporary presence of Israeli settlements pending further negotiation, and that there is no basis for declaring them illegal.\n\nIn July 1999, the conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Fourth Geneva Convention ruled that the Convention did apply in the Israeli-occupied territories. In 2001, the conference called upon \"the Occupying Power to fully and effectively respect the Fourth Geneva Convention in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and to refrain from perpetrating any violation of the Convention.\" The High Contracting Parties reaffirmed \"the illegality of the settlements in the said territories and of the extension thereof\". In response, some argued that the conference had amended history and had construed the Convention only for this specific situation. According to barrister and human rights activist Stephen Bowen, arguments dismissing the ruling as applying to more specific cases were rejected \"because the Convention also states that it applies 'in all circumstances' (Article 1), and 'to all cases of declared war or of any other armed conflict' (Article 2)\".\n\nIn practice, Israel does not accept that the Fourth Geneva Convention applies \"de jure\", but has stated that on humanitarian issues it will govern itself \"de facto\" by its provisions, without specifying which these are.\n\nRostow and others further argue that UN Security Council Resolution 242 (which Rostow helped draft) mandates Israeli control of the territories, and that the original British Mandate of Palestine still applies, allowing Jewish settlement there. In Rostow's view The British Mandate recognized the right of the Jewish people to \"close settlement\" in the whole of the Mandated territory. It was provided that local conditions might require Great Britain to \"postpone\" or \"withhold\" Jewish settlement in what is now Jordan. This was done in 1922. But the Jewish right of settlement in Palestine west of the Jordan river, that is, in Israel, the West Bank, Jerusalem, and the Gaza Strip, was made unassailable. That right has never been terminated and cannot be terminated except by a recognized peace between Israel and its neighbors. And perhaps not even then, in view of Article 80 of the U.N. Charter, \"the Palestine article\", which provides that \"nothing in the Charter shall be construed ... to alter in any manner the rights whatsoever of any states or any peoples or the terms of existing international instruments...\" According to Rostow \"the Jewish right of settlement in the area is equivalent in every way to the right of the local population to live there\".\n\nThis right is based on Article 6 of the Mandate, which states: \"The Administration of Palestine, while ensuring that the rights and position of other sections of the population are not prejudiced, shall facilitate Jewish immigration under suitable conditions and shall encourage, in cooperation with the Jewish Agency referred to in Article 4, close settlement by Jews on the land, including State lands not required for public use\". In addition, many Israeli settlements have been established on sites that were home to Jewish communities before 1948 such as Neve Yaakov, Gush Etzion, Hebron, Kalia, and Kfar Darom.\n\nContrary to this view other legal scholars have argued that under Articles 31 and 32 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties the only common sense interpretation of UNSC 242 is that Israel must withdraw from all of the territory captured in 1967, as any interpretation permitting the extension of sovereignty by conquest would violate the relevant governing principle of international law as emphasized in the preambular statement, i.e., \"the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by war\" as established through the abolition of the right of conquest by the League of Nations following World War I.\n\nFurthermore, it is argued that UNSC 242 has binding force under Article 25 of the UN Charter owing to its incorporation into UN Security Council Resolution 338 and that it is also binding on Israel and the PLO by agreement owing to its incorporation into the Oslo Accords.\n\nOthers argue that the Oslo Accords supersede UNSC 242 rather than making it binding. The Declaration of Principles in the accords only state that future negotiations will \"lead to the implementation of Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338\".\n\nAdditionally, as the international community considered the status of Jerusalem to be unresolved, even after 1967, and did not deem any part of the city to be Israeli territory, including that part held since 1948, UNSC 242 did not settle territorial issues between Israel and Palestine left unresolved by the 1949 Armistice Agreements. Indeed, Sir Elihu Lauterpacht and others have argued that, because of the disorder in Palestine at the time, the territorial framework of the 1947 Partition Plan did not come into effect in such a way as to ipso jure grant Israel sovereignty over the territory allocated to the Jewish state under that plan. Stone agrees with Lauterpacht's analysis, and his view that sovereignty was acquired through other means:\nLauterpacht has offered a cogent legal analysis leading to the conclusion that sovereignty over Jerusalem has already vested in Israel. His view is that when the partition proposals were immediately rejected and aborted by Arab armed aggression, those proposals could not, both because of their inherent nature and because of the terms in which they were framed, operate as an effective legal re-disposition of the sovereign title. They might (he thinks) have been transformed by agreement of the parties concerned into a consensual root of title, but this never happened. And he points out that the idea that some kind of title remained in the United Nations is quite at odds, both with the absence of any evidence of vesting, and with complete United Nations silence on this aspect of the matter from 1950 to 1967?... In these circumstances, that writer is led to the view that there was, following the British withdrawal and the abortion of the partition proposals, a lapse or vacancy or vacuum of sovereignty. In this situation of sovereignty vacuum, he thinks, sovereignty could be forthwith acquired by any state that was in a position to assert effective and stable control without resort to unlawful means.\n\nAntonio Cassese disagrees with this analysis, arguing that although Israel's original occupation of West Jerusalem might have been carried out in an act of self-defense under Article 51 of the UN Charter, this did not confer legal title to the territory owing to the general prohibition in international law on the acquisition of sovereignty through military conquest. He further considers that \"mere silence\" could not constitute agreement by the United Nations to the acquisition of sovereignty by Israel or Jordan as a result of their \"de facto\" control of Jerusalem. Cassese concludes that \"at least \"a tacit manifestation of consent through conclusive acts would have been necessary\"\", whereas such relevant acts as did take place confirmed that no such consent to the transfer of sovereignty was given.\n\nIt has been argued that Israel took control of the West Bank as a result of a \"defensive war\". Former Israeli diplomat Dore Gold writes that: The language of \"occupation\" has allowed Palestinian spokesmen to obfuscate this history. By repeatedly pointing to \"occupation\", they manage to reverse the causality of the conflict, especially in front of Western audiences. Thus, the current territorial dispute is allegedly the result of an Israeli decision \"to occupy\", rather than a result of \"a war imposed on Israel\" by a coalition of Arab states in 1967.\nHe quotes Former State Department Legal Advisor Stephen Schwebel, who later headed the International Court of Justice in the Hague, and wrote in 1970 regarding Israel's case: Where the prior holder of territory had seized that territory unlawfully, the state which subsequently takes that territory in the lawful exercise of self-defense has, against that prior holder, better title.\n\nHowever, international law scholar John Quigley has written, \"... a state that uses force in self-defense may not retain territory it takes while repelling an attack. If Israel had acted in self-defense, that would not justify its retention of the Gaza Strip and West Bank. Under the UN Charter there can lawfully be no territorial gains from war, even by a state acting in self-defense. The response of other states to Israel's occupation shows a virtually unanimous opinion that even if Israel's action was defensive, its retention of the West Bank and Gaza Strip was not.\"\n\nOn January 30, 2009, the Associated Press reported that Israeli political group Yesh Din plans to use a classified Israeli Government database to prove that many West Bank Israeli settlements were built on land privately owned by Palestinian citizens without compensation.\n\nIn two cases decided shortly after independence (the Shimshon and Stampfer cases) the Israeli Supreme Court held that the fundamental rules of international law accepted as binding by all \"civilized\" nations were incorporated in the domestic legal system of Israel. The Nuremberg Military Tribunal had already determined that the articles annexed to the Hague IV Convention of 1907 were customary law, recognized by all civilized nations.\n\nThe Court determined in the 1979 Elon Moreh case that only the military commander of an area may requisition land according to article 52 of the Hague regulations. Military necessity had been an afterthought in the planning portions of the Elon Moreh settlement. That situation did not fulfill the precise strictures laid down in the articles of the Hague Convention, so the Court ruled the requisition order had been invalid and illegal.\n\nIn subsequent cases, the Court has ruled that Article 43 of the Hague IV Convention is a mandatory planning consideration for approval of building projects on state lands in the West Bank.\n\nPressured by America, the Sharon administration commissioned the Sasson Report, which found that the Israeli government had funded the creation of Jewish settler outposts in the West Bank that were unauthorized and in violation of stated government policy. According to the report, the Housing and Construction Ministry, the World Zionist Organization, the Education Ministry and the Defense Ministry cooperated to \"systematically establish illegal settlement points\", paying millions of dollars to create the infrastructure for scores of settlements.\n\nThe summary of the Sasson Report explains that local law requires the fulfillment of a number of basic conditions before establishing a settlement in Judea and Samaria. It lists four preconditions that must be fulfilled in each case. The second precondition regarding title to the land cites the precedent established in the Elon Moreh case. The third precondition is that a settlement can only be established according to a lawfully designed building scheme, which has the power to produce a building permit. The fourth precondition is that the bounds of jurisdiction of the settlement must be determined in advance by order of the Commander of the area. The Israeli Supreme Court has ruled that the fulfillment of the applicable Hague IV Convention criteria is a mandatory and integral part of satisfying those three preconditions of the local law. Sasson summed up the situation by explaining:An unauthorized outpost is a settlement which does not fulfill at least one of the above mentioned conditions. And I must emphasize: an unauthorized outpost is not a \"semi legal\" outpost. Unauthorized is illegal.\n\nThe report found \"blatant violations of the law\" by officials and state institutions. Many of the more than 100 outposts investigated added at state expense paved roads, permanent housing, power lines and other infrastructure. According to the report, some of the outposts were established on private lands owned by Palestinians with the help of Housing Ministry architects, the Housing Ministry funded many of the trailers used to start the outposts, and Defence Ministry officials allocated such private land to the quasi-official Jewish Agency.\n\nAs part of the 2003 \"Road map\" for peace, Israel committed itself to remove about two dozen such settlements, an obligation it has yet to fulfill.\n\nIn response to settler violence directed towards Israeli security forces, Israel declared it would no longer fund unauthorized outposts from November 2008. Settlers claim the violence was sparked by the beating of a settler child; border police spokesman Moshe Pinchi said he had no knowledge of the alleged beating and accused the settlers of \"cynically\" sending minors to attack the police. However, there is evidence that support continues unabated for illegal outposts. At one unauthorized settlement, Eli, there has been recent work on a new road that cuts through Palestinian territory.\n\nAccording to a report of the Israeli Environmental Protection Ministry, waste water management is \"virtually nonexistent\" in unauthorized Jewish settler outposts and some other settlements, thus raw sewage is contaminating the ground water in parts of the West Bank. According to the report, the main cause of the contaminated water is that raw waste water flows from Hebron, Ramallah, Nablus, Jenin and other villages, without proper treatment. The report blames Israeli settlements for pumping contaminated water into the sewers, not Palestinian villages. 70% of the Jewish communities east of the Green Line are connected to treatment facilities, so \"illegal outposts\" are the main source of the untreated water, according to the Israeli report.\n\nIn May 2009, Defense Minister Ehud Barak said that over two dozen illegal outposts in the West Bank had been \"declared as such by the Talia Sasson Commission\", and would be dismantled.\n\nOn August 17, 2009, four members of Netanyahu's cabinet — Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Internal Affairs Eli Yishai (Shas), Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Strategic Affairs Moshe Ya'alon (Likud), Minister of Information Yuli Edelstein (Likud), and Minister of Science and Technology Daniel Hershkowitz (The Jewish Home) — embarked on a tour of West Bank outposts. During the tour, Yishai stated that the outposts are not illegal: The people of Israel should know that these settlements [outposts] are legal. If someone thinks otherwise and plans to evacuate them, it will have to be approved by the cabinet. You cannot just evacuate people from their homes without due process.\n\n"}
{"id": "41586044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41586044", "title": "Internet.org", "text": "Internet.org\n\nInternet.org is a partnership between social networking services company Facebook and six companies (Samsung, Ericsson, MediaTek, Opera Software, Nokia and Qualcomm) that plans to bring affordable access to selected Internet services to less developed countries by increasing efficiency, and facilitating the development of new business models around the provision of Internet access. The app delivering these services was renamed Free Basics in September 2015. As of November 2016, 40 million people are using internet.org.\n\nIt has been criticized for violating net neutrality, and by handpicking internet services that are included, for discriminating against companies not in the list, including Facebook's rivals. In February 2016, regulators banned the Free Basics service in India based on \"Prohibition of Discriminatory Tariffs for Data Services Regulations\". The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) accused Facebook of failing to pass on the four questions in the regulator's consultation paper and also blocking access to TRAI's designated email for feedback on Free Basics. On February 11, 2016, Facebook withdrew the Free Basics platform from India.\n\nInternet.org was launched on August 20, 2013. At the time of launch, Facebook's founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg released a ten-page whitepaper he had written elaborating on the vision that asserts that connectivity is a \"human right\". In the paper, he wrote that Internet.org was a further step in the direction of Facebook's past initiatives, such as Facebook Zero, to improve Internet access for people around the world.\n\nDuring \"TechCrunch Disrupt\" on September 11, 2013 Zuckerberg elaborated further on his vision. TechCrunch blog compared Internet.org with Google's Project Loon. Zuckerberg also released a video on September 30, 2013 explaining Internet.org's goal of making the Internet 100 times more affordable.\n\nOn February 24, 2014, shortly before a keynote presentation by Zuckerberg at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona on February 24, 2014, Internet.org unveiled several new projects: an education partnership called SocialEDU with Nokia and local carrier AirTel, edX, and the government in Rwanda; a project with Unilever in India; and a new Internet.org Innovation Lab with Ericsson in its Menlo Park HQ. In the presentation, Zuckerberg says that Facebook's recent acquisition of mobile messaging app WhatsApp for $19 billion was closely related to the Internet.org vision.\n\nIn May 2015, Facebook announced the Internet.org Platform, an open program for developers to easily create services that integrate with Internet.org. This was seen by commentators as a response to concerns raised over net neutrality. Participating websites must meet three criteria:\n\nOn March 27, 2014, Facebook announced a connectivity lab as part of the Internet.org initiative, with the goal of bringing the Internet to everybody via drones, acquired from the company Ascenta. It is also communicated by the Connectivity Lab, that, besides using drones, low-Earth orbit and geosynchronous satellites would also be part of the project, for establishing internet connectivity in other areas. All three systems would rely on free space optics (FSO). In free space optics, the signal is sent in a compact bundle of infrared light\n\nAt Mobile World Congress March 2015, Mark Zuckerberg says that the Internet.org initiative was \"willing to work\" with Project Loon (Google's project to use high-altitude balloons to provide people cheaper Internet access) but emphasizes that in his view, the real work is in partnering with existing telecommunications companies to improve access and reduce costs for people already within range of a network, which he estimates at over 80% of the population.\n\nIn October 2015, Facebook and Eutelsat leased the entire Ka-band capacity (36 spot beams with a total throughput of 18 Gbit/s) on the planned Amos-6 satellite to provide access to parts of Africa Amos-6 was intended to be launched on Flight 29 of a SpaceX Falcon 9 to geosynchronous transfer orbit on 3 September 2016. However, on 1 September 2016, during the run-up to a static fire test, there was an anomaly on the launch pad resulting in a fire and the loss of the vehicle and its payload, Amos-6. There were no injuries.\n\nIn January 2016, Google had exited Facebook's Free Basics platform in Zambia. They were included in the initial trial of this project, which was first launched in Zambia.\n\nThe first Internet.org summit was held on 9 October 2014 in New Delhi, India. The primary objective of this summit was to bring together experts, officials and industry leaders to focus on ways to deliver more Internet services for people in languages other than English. Zuckerberg also met Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to talk about how Facebook and the Indian government can collaborate on Internet.org.\n\nIn 2015, Mark Zuckerberg wrote in an article for \"Hindustan Times\" stating that Internet.org and net neutrality can co-exist and Internet.org will never differentiate between services. His claims were contested by many response articles, including one published in the \"Hindustan Times\". In May 2015, the Internet.org Platform, open to participation by any developers meeting specified guidelines, was announced. Some commentators viewed this announcement as a response to the net neutrality concerns expressed.\nThe PMO has expressed displeasure at Facebook's reaction to and handling of TRAI's consultation paper, calling it a crudely majoritarian and orchestrated opinion poll.\n\nAn Indian journalist, in his reply to Mark Zuckerberg's article defending Internet.org in India, criticized Internet.org as \"being just a Facebook proxy targeting India's poor\" as it provides restricted Internet access to Reliance Telecom's subscribers in India. Until April 2015, Internet.org users could access (for free) only a few websites, and Facebook's role as gatekeeper in determining what websites were in that list was criticised for violating net neutrality. In May 2015, Facebook announced that the Free Basics Platform would be opened to websites that met its criteria.\n\nIn April 2015, some Indian startups start pulling out of Internet.org to protect net neutrality. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in January 2016 criticized Facebook for its misleading commercials and astroturfing the Free Basics campaign. TRAI accused Facebook of failing to pass on the four questions in the regulator's consultation paper and also blocking access to TRAI's designated email for feedback on Free Basics. By February 2016, TRAI banned the Free Basics service in India based on \"Prohibition of Discriminatory Tariffs for Data Services Regulations, 2016\" notification. On February 11, 2016 Facebook withdrew the Free Basics platform from India.\n\nBelow is a selective history of launch dates and participating mobile networks:\n\nThe following websites are accessible via the service, although not all are available in certain countries:\n\n- Note http://0.freebasics.com/searchservices/?ref=opera_speed_dial</ref> can be easily accessed using an android phone.\n\nAn article published on \"[[Datamation]]\" in August 2013 discussed Internet.org in relation to past accessibility initiatives by Facebook and Google such as [[Facebook Zero]], [[Google Free Zone]], and [[Project Loon]]. Internet.org and Project Loon have been described as being engaged in an Internet space race. There have also been technical debates about the relative feasibility and value of using balloons (as championed by Project Loon) instead of drones, with [[Mark Zuckerberg]] favoring drones.\n\nIn December 2013, [[David Talbot]] wrote a detailed article for \"[[Technology Review]]\" titled \"Facebook's Two Faces: Facebook and Google Aim to Fix Global Connectivity, but for Whom?\" about Internet.org and other Internet accessibility initiatives.\n\nIn 2015, researchers evaluating how Facebook Zero shapes \"information and communication technologies\" (ICT) usage in the developing world found that 11% of Indonesians who said they used Facebook also said they did not use the Internet. 65% of Nigerians, and 61% of Indonesians agree with the statement that \"Facebook is the Internet\" compared with only 5% in the US.\n\n\n[[Category:Facebook]]\n[[Category:Ericsson]]\n[[Category:Samsung]]\n[[Category:Opera Software]]\n[[Category:Qualcomm]]\n[[Category:Consortia in the United States]]\n[[Category:Internet service providers]]\n[[Category:Information technology organizations]]\n[[Category:Net neutrality]]"}
{"id": "26187562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26187562", "title": "Japanese competition law", "text": "Japanese competition law\n\nJapanese competition law consists of the , officially the , and several other statutory laws.\n\nThe AMA was introduced during the postwar Allied occupation. The U.S. Government, on 6 September 1945, issued a presidential directive instructing the Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers (SCAP) to dissolve Zaibatsu structures. Prior to World War II, Japan had no antitrust laws. There were seventeen Zaibatsu organisations, the four largest of which had controlled approximately a fourth of all of the paid-up capital in the Japanese economy just prior to the World War.\n\nIn opposition to General MacArthur's fear that Zaibatsu dissolution would lead to instability, the U.S. Departments of State and Justice sent a \"Special Mission on Japanese Combines\" to Japan for the implementation of a comprehensive antimonopoly framework. In response, MacArthur coerced the Japanese Diet into adopting legislation known as the Antimonopoly Act (AMA), with the persuasion to them that enforcement was optional.\n\nMacArthur's AMA, which is still Japan's fundamental competition law, generalised prohibitions against three types of anticompetitive conduct.\n\nThe AMA led to the formation of Japan's Fair Trade Commission (JFTC).\n\nThe weakness of the AMA was due to vagueness requiring JFTC officials to be familiar with presumptions built into American antitrust laws. Seeing the need for stability and the growing threat of Communism, the United States backtracked on requiring Japan's enforcement of the AMA and instead encouraged the resurrection of Zaibatsu structures.\n\nJapan, which had grown increasingly independent of the United States in the 1950s, succumbed to pressures from Japanese business and need for recovery from economic depression due to the end of the Korean War. The SCAP and the U.S. Government acquiesced to Prime Minister Yoshida's actions to enact relaxations to the AMA when occupation of Japan ended with the implementation of the San Francisco Peace Treaty on 28 April 1952. All cartels illegal under the original AMA were effectively legalized.\n\nAmendments were made to strengthen the AMA in the 1970s due to, in part, pressures from American businesses. The 1973 oil crisis and price fixing by Japanese oil companies further garnered public opinion in Japan against the weakness of the AMA and its lack of enforcement. The new articles introduced authorised the JFTC to dissolve or divest a company based on barriers against market-entry, lack of price benefit for consumers and unreasonable profits. The JFTC was authorised to impose fines for violations of the AMA.\n\nHowever, the existence of cartels known as keiretsu are still legalized with the following notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4156799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4156799", "title": "Landsting (Denmark)", "text": "Landsting (Denmark)\n\nThe Landsting was a house of the Rigsdag in Denmark from 1849 until 1953, when the bicameral system was abolished. The house had powers equal to the Folketing, which made the two houses of parliament hard to distinguish.\n\nOriginally membership and the electorate was restricted, and the members were largely conservatives. Membership of the house was then restricted to certain sectors of society: only males with a certain net worth could hold a seat. In 1915, these restrictions were removed, and a few new members were appointed by the existing members.\n\nUnder the Constitution of 1849, the requirements for the right to vote was the same for the two houses, however the requirements for electability was stricter for the Landsting; candidates were limited to those of age 40 and above and they were required to have a substantial income. The house originally had 51 members, all elected indirectly. The voters elected a group of electors for each constituency, and the electors elected the members of the house. The members were elected for a term of eight years; however, half of the seats were up for election every four years.\n\nWith the Constitution of 1866, the electoral system was reformed. The number of seats was increased to 66 of which twelve were appointed by the king for a period of twelve years, and one by the Faroese Løgting. The remaining 53 were elected indirectly. In Copenhagen, half the electors were elected by the voters paying the largest amount of tax, the other half by all the voters. In the rest of the country, one elector was elected by the voters in each parish in the country and half as many electors were elected in the market town by the same system as in Copenhagen. Then for each elector elected in the country parishes and the market towns, one elector was found among those that paid the greatest amount of tax in the country parishes. As the main direct tax of the time was based on real estate and its value as farmland, this system greatly favored manor owners. The result was a conservative majority lasting 35 years, until the 1902 election.\n\nThe next reform of the electoral system came with the Constitution of 1915, and the first election under this system was the 1918 election. Women were given the right to vote, the number of seats was increased to 72, the number of constituencies was reduced to seven, and the system of appointed members was replaced by 18 members elected by the resigning Landsting for a period of eight years.\n\nAlthough a 1939 referendum that would have replaced the Landsting with another chamber—the Rigsting—and simplified the legislative process, failed due to a low voter turnout, the bicameral system and thereby the Landsting was abolished in a 1953 referendum.\n\nTing (old Norse: þing) means assembly. It first came into being during Viking times and was formed by the freemen of the community. In those times it numbered a hundred men. Tings were necessary in the clan society of Northern Germany and Scandinavia. Inter-clan wars were resolved or prevented through the governance of the ting. It also served as the place for religious rites and trade negotiations.\n\n"}
{"id": "6521905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6521905", "title": "Lewis Hyde", "text": "Lewis Hyde\n\nLewis Hyde (born 1945) is a scholar, essayist, translator, cultural critic and writer whose scholarly work focuses on the nature of imagination, creativity, and property.\n\nHyde was born in Boston, the son of Elizabeth Sanford Hyde and Walter Lewis Hyde. He received an M.A. in comparative literature from the University of Iowa and a B.A. in sociology from the University of Minnesota after which there were many years of freelance work and odd jobs, before teaching writing in the 80s.\n\nHyde taught writing at Harvard University (1983–1989); in his last year there, he directed the undergraduate writing program. From 1989 to 2001 he was the Luce Professor of Arts and Politics at Kenyon College in Ohio. Since 2006 he has served as the Richard L. Thomas Professor of Creative Writing at Kenyon, and a visiting fellow at Harvard's Berkman Center. He is also a Nonresident Fellow at the USC Annenberg Center for Communication.\n\nHyde's awards include an NEH Fellowship for Independent Study and Research (1979); three NEA Creative Writing Fellowships (1977, 1982, 1987); a MacArthur Fellowship (the \"Genius\" award) (1991); a residency at the Getty Center, Los Angeles (1993–94); an \"Osher Fellow\" at the Exploratorium in San Francisco (1998); a Lannan Literary Fellowship (2002); an American Council of Learned Societies Fellowship (2003); and a Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship (2006).\n\nHyde's popular works of scholarship, including the books \"\" (1983) and \"Trickster Makes this World\" (1998) have been widely praised by fiction writers, including Margaret Atwood, Michael Chabon, Jonathan Lethem and David Foster Wallace. \"The Gift\" has also been cited as the inspiration for visual artist Jim Mott's Itinerant Artist Project. Robert Darnton in \"The New York Times\" called Hyde's latest book, \"Common as Air: Revolution, Art and Ownership\" ( Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 2010), \"an eloquent and erudite plea for protecting our cultural patrimony from appropriation by commercial interests.\"\n\nHyde is married to Patricia Vigderman. The couple divide their time between Gambier, Ohio and Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41164974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41164974", "title": "Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs (Nepal)", "text": "Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs (Nepal)\n\nThe Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs is a governmental body of Nepal dealing with the management of the judicial administration, legal affairs and legislative activities.\n\nThe \"Department of Law (कानून विभाग)\" was established in 1950 before being developed into a ministry in 1956. Two years later, the ministry's portfolio was adjusted for the first time, making it the \"Ministry of Government and Law (कानून तथा संसदीय प्रबन्ध मन्त्रालय)\". In 1961, it was again renamad into the \"Ministry of Law and Justice (कानून तथा न्याय मन्त्रालय)\". The term \"Parliamentary Affairs\" was added and dropped several times throughout the history of the ministry.\n\nSome individuals were known as the Minister of Law, Power and Irrigation, Minister of Home and Law, Minister of State for Law and Justice or the Minister of Agriculture, Law and Justice.\n\n"}
{"id": "42103054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42103054", "title": "Ministry of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs (Egypt)", "text": "Ministry of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs (Egypt)\n\nThe Ministry of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs is the ministry in charge of transitional justice in Egypt. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9634470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9634470", "title": "Ministry of the Interior and Justice (Colombia)", "text": "Ministry of the Interior and Justice (Colombia)\n\nThe Ministry of the Interior and Justice (, or MIJ), was at national executive ministry of the Government of Colombia responsible for the enforcement of both law and administration of justice, equivalent to the justice and interior ministries of other countries.\n"}
{"id": "16621048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16621048", "title": "Moral status of animals in the ancient world", "text": "Moral status of animals in the ancient world\n\nThe 21st-century debates about animal welfare and animal rights can be traced back to the ancient world.\n\nJainism, dating from the 6th century BCE, is the oldest religious philosophy which has advocated complete non-violence towards animals of all forms. The concept of Ahiṃsā is so much intertwined with Jainism that it conjures up images of ascetics who cover their mouths and sweep the ground before them with small brushes to avoid injuring the most minuscule forms of life and Jain-owned animal sanctuaries where even the sickest, most deformed birds and beasts are protected and cherished. Non-violence is of the top most priority in the basic set of Principles of Jainism.\n\nPsychologist Richard Ryder, former Mellon Professor at Tulane University and chairman of the RSPCA in 1977, writes that it is in 6th century BCE Greek philosophy that we first find concern for the treatment of animals.\n\nFour schools of thought were influential in ancient Greece: animism, vitalism, mechanism, and anthropocentrism. The philosopher and mathematician Pythagoras ( c. 580–c. 500 BCE) was the central figure within animism. He urged respect for animals, because he believed that humans and non-humans had the same kind of soul, one spirit that pervades the universe and makes us one with animals.\nThe souls were indestructible, made of fire and air, and were reincarnated from human to animal, or vice versa, the so-called transmigration of the soul. He was a vegetarian, and was reportedly the first animal \"liberationist,\" buying animals from the market in order to set them free.\n\nAgainst these ideas, Aristotle (384–322 BCE) argued that non-human animals had no interests of their own, ranking far below humans in the Great Chain of Being, or \"scala naturae\", because of their alleged irrationality. He was the first to attempt the creation of a taxonomical categorization and hierarchy of animals. Aristotle perceived some similarities between humans and other species and developed a sort of \"psychological continuum\", recognising that human and non-human animals differ only by degree in possessing certain temperaments. Nevertheless, he denied animals rationality and moral equality. \"Plants are created for the sake of animals,\" he wrote, \"and animals for the sake of men.\" Aristotle argued that humans were the “masters” in his created hierarchical structure based upon their rational powers. \n\nOne of Aristotle's pupils, Theophrastus, argued against eating meat on the grounds that it robbed animals of life and was therefore unjust. He argued that non-human animals can reason, sense, and feel just as human beings do. Theophrastus did not prevail, and it was Aristotle's position—that human and non-human animals exist in different moral realms because one is rational and the other not—that persisted largely unchallenged in the West for nearly two thousand years.\n\nWhile the first chapter of Book of Genesis describes how God gave human beings dominion over animals, this is tempered throughout the Torah by injunctions to show kindness and to respect animals. Severing a limb from a live animal and eating it was forbidden (Genesis 9:4), cattle were to be rested on Biblical Sabbath (Exodus 20:10; 23:12), a cow and her calf were not to be killed on the same day (Leviticus 22:28), a person had to feed his animals before himself (Deuteronomy 11:15), animal suffering had to be relieved (Deuteronomy 22:4), oxen treading the corn were not to be muzzled (Deuteronomy 25:4), kids were not to be cooked in their mother's milk (Deuteronomy 14:21), mother birds not to be disturbed while sitting on eggs (Deuteronomy 22:6-7), and oxen and asses not to be yoked together (Deuteronomy 22:10). In the opening chapters of Genesis, human beings are not permitted to eat meat at all, though after the Flood, meat-eating was permitted within certain limits.\n\nThe Jewish oral tradition developed the principle of Tza'ar ba'alei chayim, forbidding inflicting unnecessary pain on animals. This concept was accepted by the Talmud (Bava Metzia 32b) as being a Biblical mandate. It is linked in the Talmud from the Biblical law requiring people to assist in unloading burdens from animals (Exodus 23:5).\n\nThe Seven Laws of Noah, or the Noahide Laws, are a set of moral imperatives that, according to the Talmud, were given by God as a binding set of laws for the \"children of Noah\" – that is, all of humanity; the sixth law is: Do not eat of a live animal. This law is derived from Genesis 9:4, as interpreted in the Talmud (Sanhedrin 59a).\n\nCompassion for animals is declared to have been the merit of Moses which made him the shepherd of his people (Exodus Rabbah 2), while Judah ha-Nasi saw in his own ailment the punishment for having once failed to show compassion for a frightened calf.\n\nThe book of Genesis declares that God created humans in his own image, \"saying to them, 'Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth and conquer it. Be masters of the fish of the sea, the birds of heaven and all living animals on the earth' \"(Genesis 1.28).\n\nPeter Singer argues that the Christian New Testament is devoid of injunctions to be kind, with Paul of Tarsus interpreting the Sabbath requirement, \"Thou shalt not muzzle the ox as he treadeth the corn\" as intended to benefit human beings. \"Doth God take care for oxen? Or saith he it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt this is written: that he that ploweth should plow in hope.\" (1 Corinthians 9:9-10).\n\nSaint Augustine (354 – 430) argued that Jesus allowed the 2,000 Gadarene swine to drown to demonstrate that man has no duties to animals: \"Christ himself shows that to refrain from the killing of animals and the destroying of plants is the height of superstition ...\" Thomas Aquinas (c. 1225–1274) qualified Augustine's position, arguing that human beings should be charitable to animals only to make sure that cruel habits do not carry over into our treatment of other humans, or cause a financial loss to the animal's owner. \"If in Holy Scripture there are found some injunctions forbidding the infliction of some cruelty toward brute animals ... this is either for removing a man's mind from exercising cruelty towards other men ... or because the injury inflicted on animals turns to a temporal loss for some man ...\"\n\nAquinas' argument was later supported by a number of philosophers, including Immanuel Kant (1724 – 1804), and it underpinned much of the 19th and 20th centuries' animal protection legislation. Law professor Gary Francione has called it \"legal welfarism,\" namely that the welfare of animals is viewed as important only insofar as it benefits human beings.\n\nSinger writes that animals, along with criminals and other undesirables, largely fell outside the Roman moral sphere. He quotes a description from the historian W.E.H. Lecky of the Roman games, first held in 366 BCE:\n\n[E]very variety of atrocity was devised to stimulate flagging interest. At one time, a bear and a bull, chained together, rolled in fierce combat across the sand ... Four hundred bears were killed in a single day under Caligula [12–41] ... Under Nero [37–68], four hundred tigers fought with bulls and elephants. In a single day, at the dedication of the Colosseum by Titus [39–81], five thousand animals perished. Under Trajan [53–117] ... lions, tigers, elephants, rhinoceroses, hippopotami, giraffes, bulls, stags, even crocodiles and serpents were employed to give novelty to the spectacle ... So intense was the craving for blood, that a prince was less unpopular if he neglected the distribution of corn than if he neglected the games.\n\nMeat eating was a status symbol, and animals were often cooked alive; Ryder writes that pigs were skewered alive on hot spits to improve the taste. He writes that there were nevertheless signs of tender feelings for animals in the poetry of Virgil (70–19 BCE), Lucretius (99–55 BCE), and Ovid (43 BCE–17). The statesman Seneca (4 BCE–65) was a vegetarian and said that he found the practice not only moral but delightful, as were the philosophers Plutarch (46–120), Plotinus (205–270), and Porphyry (232–305). Porphyry wrote two tracts on the issue, \"De Abstinentia\" (On Abstinence) and \"De Non Necandis ad Epulandum Animantibus\" (On the Impropriety of Killing Living Beings for Food). Plutarch, who was Greek but lived in Rome, argued strongly against meat eating, seeing it as responsible for much of the cruelty in the world:\n\nFor the sake of some little mouthful of flesh, we deprive a soul of the sun and light ... And then we fancy that the voices it utters and screams forth to us are nothing else but certain inarticulate sounds and noises, and not the ... entreaties ... of each of them ...\n\nLegal philosopher John Finnis writes that the Romans gave us the concept of \"ius\", meaning what is right, just, or lawful, and it is from this concept that the idea of a \"right\" as a claim, an entitlement, an immunity, or a liberty, arose in the late-medieval to modern period. He writes that it remains unclear how the concept of \"ius\" developed into the idea of modern rights, but a key feature of the latter is that the relationship between persons is articulated from the perspective of the relationship's beneficiary, the holder of the right. This is an important idea in the development of the concept of animal rights, the essence of which is to view the relationship between human and non-human from the perspective of the animal as beneficiary, rather than from the perspective of the human, which is how most animal protection legislation is framed. The idea is that any wrong not only \"deforms the agent,\" as Finnis writes of human beings, but also offends the victim's \"fundamental equality.\"\n\nBoth Hindu and Buddhist societies saw widespread vegetarianism from the 3rd century BCE, in line with \"ahimsa\", the doctrine of non-violence. Ryder writes that animals were thought to possess the same feelings as human beings, and several kings of ancient India built hospitals for sick animals. Human souls could be reborn as animals if they had behaved badly, with all souls regarded as part of the Supreme Being. Failing to observe the duty to care could lead to bad karma, which increased the likelihood of returning as an animal next time round.\n\nMuhammad (570–632) taught that it was permissible to kill animals, but to do so unnecessarily or with cruelty was forbidden. \"If you must kill, kill without torture.\" He saw animals as having internal mental states. They should not be bound when being slaughtered, and should not be made to wait. To let an animal see you sharpen your knife is to kill it twice.\n\nSome varieties of Animism, totemism, religions of indigenous peoples, paganism and many polytheism hold the belief that animals are spiritual beings, people practicing these belief systems have great respect towards the right to life of animals. \n\n"}
{"id": "17105010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17105010", "title": "National Clearinghouse for Science, Technology and the Law", "text": "National Clearinghouse for Science, Technology and the Law\n\nThe National Clearinghouse for Science, Technology and the Law at Stetson University College of Law is an organization that provides information sharing and professional development to forensic scientists, lawyers, judges, other legal professionals, law enforcement personnel, educators, and the general public. Sponsored by a grant from the National Institute of Justice, NCSTL offers educational programs and a database of forensic-related information. Within the context of the promotion of justice based on sound science and technology, NCSTL focuses on raising awareness and fostering communication and understanding among the various parties interested in scientific evidence and expert testimony.\n\nOne of the primary purposes of NCSTL is to provide a resource that collects and tracks the latest available sources related to forensics and technology. NCSTL scrutinizes and disseminates useful information in the form of a research database on the Internet that is free and available to the public.\n\nThe NCSTL database was first offered live to the public in February 2005. It collects and distributes bibliographic information on thousands of court decisions, pieces of legislation, legal and scientific publications, news and media features, websites and educational opportunities. Using the database, researchers can choose to view all types of resources in all its forensic-related topics, or restrict to those topics or resource types of specific interest. Individual records provide bibliographic information, as well as active URLs that link to full text whenever available. Researchers can also take advantage of a feature that offers the ability to save favorite searches. Materials found in the database are supported in hard copy in the NCSTL collection in Stetson Law Library.\n\nIn its continuing education efforts, NCSTL tries to raise awareness of the nature of good evidence practices. NCSTL presents an annual lecture series on the Stetson Law School campus that has included presentations by noted forensic scientists such as Drs. Michael Baden and Henry Lee about a wide variety of forensic topics, including forensic investigations. Thus, through its continuing education efforts, NCSTL shares with the forensic science community and the public what good forensic science practices are. NCSTL’s lecture series is not only free and open to the public, but is webcast and podcast live, as well as available archivally from the NCSTL website. NCSTL is also developing continuing education programs for forensic scientists and attorneys.\n\nNCSTL also offers educational opportunities to students. As a program at Stetson University College of Law, students can earn academic or pro bono credit by helping build the NCSTL database. In addition, students at other universities are welcome to volunteer, and may be able to arrange earning credit at their own educational institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "623168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623168", "title": "National Library of South Africa", "text": "National Library of South Africa\n\nThe National Library of South Africa is the agency of the government of South Africa which maintains a national library of all published materials relating to the country.\n\nIn 1818, Lord Charles Somerset, the Cape Colony's first civil Governor, issued a proclamation to control the wine trade, imposing a tax on wine brought into Cape Town for sale. The net proceeds would be used to form a Public Library which should \"lay the foundation of a system, which shall place the means of knowledge within reach of the youth of this remote corner of the Globe,\" (presuming a globe hath corners) \"and bring within their reach what the most eloquent of ancient writers has considered to be one of the first blessings of life, 'Home Education'.\" Since that time, South Africa's library development was bifurcated although the library in Cape Town was the original establishment.The most likely model for Cape Town's \"Public Library\" was the London Institution (established in 1805 in the style of an Athenaeum).\n\nThe Library's first significant acquisition was the collection of Joachim Nicolaus von Dessin, who bequeathed his books to the Dutch Reformed Church in 1761 to serve as the foundation of a public library. In 1820 the board of trustees decided to donate the Dessinian Collection to the new library. Other notable donations followed over the years, among others Sir George Grey who when he left South Africa in 1861 presented the Library with his remarkable personal collection of medieval and Renaissance manuscripts and rare books. In 1873 the South African Public Library became a legal deposit library for the Cape Colony, and from 1916 it received all printed items published throughout the country. The Library continued as a legal deposit library until 1954, when this function was taken over by the City of Cape Town. From then on it began to develop its unique character as a national reference library devoted to research based on its extensive stock, with a concurrent name change in 1967 to the South African Library.\n\nDiplomat Edmund Roberts visited the library, then called the South African Library around 1833 and described it as \"once the pride and boast of the colony.\" He noted that the library had approximately 10,000 volumes and called it a \"highly creditable place.\"\n\nThe \"Staats-Bibliotheek der Zuid-Afrikaansche Republiek\" (State Library of the South African Republic) came into being thanks to a donation of books from the Maatschappij der Nederlandsche Letterkunde. These books consisted of a complete library of Dutch works, mainly Dutch literature and language, to the Transvaal Republic's government. The first consignment of eight chests of books arrived in 1883, including a chest from the Dutch Bible Society. On 21 September 1887 the Transvaal government approved the constitution of the Staats-Bibliotheek. As Pretoria began to grow in size, there arose a need for a public library. The first Pretoria Public Library had opened its doors in 1878, but because of ongoing financial problems was closed down in 1890. In 1893 strong public support and a collection of 700 saw another public library arise, this time under the wing of the Staats-Bibliotheek and with the bookstock of the former Public Library. From that time onward until 1964, the State Library performed a dual role as public library and national library. The first national librarian, the Afrikaans poet Jan Celliers, saw exchange agreements as a means of enriching the State Library's collections. The first exchange agreement was entered into in 1898 with the Smithsonian Institution of Washington in the United States. In terms of the agreement the State Library would receive all American official publications in exchange for two copies of each official publication of the South African republic. From the early thirties under the guidance of the visionary national librarian Matthew Stirling, the State Library began to develop the character of a central library for South Africa, taking on functions such as striving for a national library lending system and a centre for bibliographical information.\n\nUntil 1 November 1999, for historical reasons, South Africa had two national libraries, the South African Library, founded in 1818, in Cape Town, and the State Library, founded in 1887, in Pretoria. In terms of South African legal deposit legislation, each of the national libraries was a legal deposit library, entitled to receive from the publishers a gratis copy of every book, serial, newspaper, government publication or other printed item published in South Africa. In South Africa legal deposit, in some form or another, dates back to 1842. As a result, extensive collections of material of great scholarly value have been built up in the former national libraries. During the 1990s the Department of Arts, Culture, Science and Technology began a review of all legislation under its jurisdiction, including the National Libraries Act, No 56 of 1985. The Minister of Arts, Culture, Science and Technology in 1996 appointed a Working Group on the National Libraries of South Africa to advise him on the future of the two national libraries. The most important recommendation of the Working Group was that the two national libraries be amalgamated to form a dual-site (Cape Town and Pretoria) national library, to be known as the National Library of South Africa.\n\nThe National Library of South Africa's core national library functions are described in Section 4 subsection 1 of the National Library Act, No 92 of 1998, and cover the following broad areas:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17373971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17373971", "title": "Open border", "text": "Open border\n\nAn open border is a border that enables free movement of people between different jurisdictions with few or no restrictions on movement, that is to say lacking substantive border control. A border may be an open border due to a lack of legal controls or intentional legislation allowing free movement of people across the border (\"de jure\"), or a border may be an open border due to lack of adequate enforcement or adequate supervision of the border (\"de facto\"). An example of the former is the Schengen Agreement between most members of the European Economic Area (EFTA and the EU). An example of the latter has been the border between Bangladesh and India, which is becoming controlled. The term \"open borders\" applies only to the flow of people, not the flow of goods and services, and only to borders between political jurisdictions, not to mere boundaries of privately owned property.\n\nOpen borders are the norm for borders between subdivisions within the boundaries of sovereign states, though some countries do have controlled borders within the boundaries of the state (for example in the People's Republic of China between the mainland and the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau). Open borders are also usual between member states of federations (such as the United States of America), though again in some instances movement between member states may be controlled via an internal passport system. Federations and confederations typically maintain external border controls through a collective border control system, though they sometimes have open borders with other non-member states (particularly enclaves, such as Switzerland and the European Union) through special international agreements.\n\nPervasive international border control is a relatively recent phenomenon in world history. In the past, many states had open international borders either in practice or due to a lack of any legal restriction. Many authors, such as John Maynard Keynes, have identified the early 20th century and particularly World War I as the point when such controls became common.\n\nThere have been sporadic attempts to promote global open borders as a viable policy option. Open borders quickly became popular after 1889. The International Emigration Conference held in Rome in May 1924 stated that anybody has the right to immigrate to a different country if they wanted to. Before the 1880s, migration to the United States was not fully controlled. During World War I it became easier for people to migrate from their country of origin to foreign countries. After World War II, countries were looking for many new workers, and Germany issued a guest work program to attract more people to work. Later, in the 1970s to 1980s strict borders were reinstated in industrialized countries. Currently, immigration is more restricted and harder for low-skilled and low-income people.\n\nTo understand the arguments for and against open borders, it is necessary to have a basic understanding of the other types of borders available. These are:\n\nA conditionally open border is a border that allows movement of people across the border that meet a special set of conditions. This special set of conditions which limits the application of border controls that would normally otherwise apply could be defined by an international agreement or international law, or the special conditions could be defined by a regulation or law of the jurisdiction that the people are claiming the right to enter. Conditionally open borders generally requires a claim to be submitted from the people who are proposing to enter the new jurisdiction stating why they meet the special conditions which allow entry into the new jurisdiction. The new jurisdiction may detain the people until their claim is approved for entry into the new jurisdiction, or they may release them into the new jurisdiction while their claim is being processed. Whenever a conditionally open border is allowed, a considerable effort is often required to ensure that border controls do not break down to such an extent that it becomes an open border situation. An example of a conditionally open border is a border of any country which allows movement of asylum seekers due to application of either the 1951 Refugee Convention or international law which allows people to cross a border to escape a situation where their lives are directly threatened or in significant danger. Another example is the border between Ireland and the United Kingdom. The two countries allow unrestricted movement of their own citizens, but in order to enjoy such movement across the Irish Sea, those same citizens may be required to provide evidence at seaports and airports that they are UK or Irish nationals. These checks are by the police, not immigration officers. (, there are no such controls on the highly porous land border between them).\n\nA controlled border is a border that allows movement of people between different jurisdictions but places restrictions and sometimes significant restrictions on this movement. This type of border may require a person crossing this border to obtain a visa or in some cases may allow a short period of visa free travel in the new jurisdiction. A controlled border always has some method of documenting and recording people movements across the border for later tracking and checking compliance with any conditions associated with the visa or any other border crossing conditions. A controlled border places limitations on what a person crossing the border can do in the new jurisdiction, this is usually manifested in limitations on employment and also it limits the length of time the person can legally remain in the new jurisdiction. A controlled border often requires some type of barrier, such as a river, ocean or fence to ensure that the border controls are not bypassed so that any people wishing to cross the border are directed to authorized border crossing points where any border crossing conditions can be properly monitored. Given the large scale movement of people today for work, holidays, study and other reasons a controlled border also requires internal checks and internal enforcement within the jurisdiction to ensure that any people who have entered the jurisdiction are in fact complying with any border crossing conditions and that they are not overstaying to reside illegally or as an undocumented resident. Most international borders are by legislative intent of the controlled border type. However, where there is a lack of adequate internal enforcement or where the borders are land borders, the border is often controlled only on part of the border, while other parts of the border may remain open to such an extent that it may be considered an open border due to lack of supervision and enforcement.\n\nA closed border is a border that prevents movement of people between different jurisdictions with limited or no exceptions associated with this movement. These borders normally have fences or walls in which any gates or border crossings are closed and if these border gates are opened they generally only allow movement of people in exceptional circumstances. Perhaps the most famous example of an extant closed border is the Demilitarized Zone between North Korea and South Korea. The Berlin Wall could also have been called a closed border.\n\nBorders can be open or and closed based on: entry status, entry duration, entry qualifications, entrant rights and obligations, and entry quotas. Entry status refers to the occupation of someone when and if they are allowed to cross a border, whether they are a student, worker, soldier, immigrant. One’s status effects the chances of being permitted to cross a border. “Most states control border crossing by limiting the duration of any visit.” Entry qualifications are restrictions based on factors such as health, age, income, religion, race. “Many countries, including Canada and Singapore, will admit wealthy immigrants who can demonstrate an intention and capacity to invest in the country.” Entrants rights and obligations are the restrictions that will be placed on those who have already been permitted to cross a border: you must follow certain rules and regulations given by the government to be allowed to stay in that country. A government may allow you to take up residency but may not allow you to work, and those who are allowed to work may not be able to find work due to the restrictions and forms of employment allowed. Entry quotas are restrictions based on the amount of immigrants allowed across a border within a certain frame of time: if you meet all of the qualifications to cross a border, but the country you want to enter has already met its quota for allowing immigrants inside, you may still not be allowed to enter.\n\nAs seen from the examples below, there are differing degrees of \"openness\" of a border, the nature of which depends on whether or not there are physical passport controls in place (and enforced). Passport control by police or immigration officers may be in place on some kinds of border but citizens of the destination territory or participating territories are permitted to cross using at most an identity card without any further approval, restrictions or conditions. Examples of the most open type of border include the Schengen zone or the [UK/Ireland] Common Travel Area, where transit across the inter-state frontiers are entirely uncontrolled, and third-country illegal immigration is controlled by internal policing as with any other kind of clandestine entry. Examples of near-open borders include the border between the Common Travel Area (on the one hand) and the Schengen Zone (on the other) which, despite having full passport control, is an internal EU border that EU citizens can pass freely without any conditions, other than an identity card. Non-EU nationals are subject to full passport and visa control measures at airports and some seaports. A hybrid of these two possibilities is the border between Russia and Belarus in the Union State which lacks any physical control but formally foreigners are not permitted to use an uncontrolled crossing.\n\nThe modern debate around open borders is not clearly delineated into the traditional Left-right political spectrum. Some right-wingers like Libertarians and Neoliberals support unrestricted immigration, while others like Donald Trump reject open border policies. Similarly, some left-wingers like Democratic Socialist Bernie Sanders reject open-border policies, while other left-wingers support open-borders, shown by the slogan \"no human is illegal\".\n\n\nIt has been proposed that borders between the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) countries be opened. If goods and services and corporations can cross international boundaries without restraint, it is argued, then it does not make sense to restrain on the flow of people who work to make those goods and services. Some estimate that open borders where people are free to move and find work could result in 78 trillion dollars in economic gains.\n\nThose in favor of a global migration policy advocate the adoption of a migratory regulatory system and new criteria to better guaranteed all rights (civil, social and political) for all immigrants. It is necessary to expand migration policy to create better management of global migratory system. Some propose a new meaning and understanding of global citizenship to establish a border global migration system. Migration is under the control and management of local governments and officials, but it is both a domestic political issue, and a global issue which needs joint efforts from different countries.\n\nControlled borders restrict migration by non-citizens. Several arguments for controlled borders and against open borders are as follows:\n\n\nOne of the earliest open border agreements was the Nordic Passport Union of 1952. The entire Nordic region, apart from Svalbard, the Faroe Islands, and Greenland (see below), have subsequently become part of the Schengen Area.\n\nUniquely, the Norwegian special territory of Svalbard is an entirely visa-free zone. No person requires a visa or residence permit and anyone may live and work in Svalbard indefinitely, regardless of citizenship. The Svalbard Treaty grants treaty nationals equal right of abode as Norwegian nationals. So far, non-treaty nationals have been admitted visa-free as well. \n\"Regulations concerning rejection and expulsion from Svalbard\" are in force on a non-discriminatory basis. Grounds for exclusion include lack of means of support, and violation of laws or regulations. Same-day visa-free transit at Oslo Airport is possible when travelling on non-stop flights to Svalbard.\n\n\n\nAccording to Daniel Wilsher, detention has become a tool of power and political control. Immigrants became \"Aliens\" when \"the border began to emerge more clearly as a site of politics and regulation\". Economics and trade imbalances created wealth and power for countries, and immigrants challenge this. In the 19th century, immigrants were excluded based on race. “Such control initially took place at ports of entry in order to separate out aliens viewed as ‘undesirable’...this was mainly on economic and racial grounds.” Detention has increased and specific and different categories for immigration reasons are ignored in favour of the general category of “undocumented.” With no status, immigrants are subject to detention. Once labelled “illegal,” one's human rights diminish. “We can thus see that detention has now become a technique of control used in a great many different situations to a wide variety of different categories of foreigners.” Immigration is determined by the executive branch and courts have less of a role. Immigrants are not seen as part of the human community and thus have little legal status. “The doubtful status of aliens under domestic legal orders is mirrored in the absence of an international law framework regulating migration and migrants’ rights.” Immigrants are vulnerable because they lack national and international human rights. Immigrants are often detained because they are perceived as a threat to security. Many detention centres do not follow the normal rule of law. “[T]he exclusionary device of making people illegal is so complete that those so labelled scarcely even have human rights.”\n\n\n Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Norway, and Sweden have temporarily imposed controls on some or all of their borders due to the ongoing European migrant crisis.\n\n"}
{"id": "16185838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16185838", "title": "Opium Law", "text": "Opium Law\n\nThe Opium Law (or \"Opiumwet\" in Dutch) is the section of the Dutch law which covers nearly all psychotropic drugs. Most non-psychotropic, but prescription-only drugs are covered by the Medicine Act, the most well known exception being Ketamine which is covered by the Medicine Act.\n\nIn 1912, the First International Opium Conference took place in The Hague, where agreements were made about the trade in opium; this initiated the introduction of the Opium Law, which took place 7 years later. In 1919, the first Opium Law (later known as List I of the Opium Law) was introduced, and on 12 May 1928 the second Opium Law (later known as List II of the Opium Law) was introduced. The first Opium Law was created to regulate drugs with a high addiction or abuse factor, or that are physically harmful. As the name indicates the main reason for introduction was to regulate the Opium trade and later to control various other addictive drugs like morphine, cocaine, heroin, barbiturates, amphetamines and several decades later, benzodiazapines, which were used both medically and recreationally.\n\nExcept for the addition of new drugs to List I and II of the Opium Law, the Opium Law remained unchanged until 1976. After the rise of a new youth culture which revolved much around the use of drugs like cannabis and LSD, and with hashish being openly used, a change of law was needed by the government, to properly control all drugs, but with a clear definition between drugs with an unacceptable degree of addictiveness or physical harm (known as hard drugs), and drugs with an acceptable degree of addictiveness or physical harm (known as soft drugs). In 1976 these changes officially took effect, and the Opium Law was edited to include the changes in the law. In the same year, a decision was made by the Dutch government discontinue prosecuting cannabis and hashish offenses, provided the person did not sell hard drugs, did not advertise and carried less than a specified maximum amount of cannabis or hashish.\n\nIn 1980, the decision to not prosecute cannabis and hashish dealers, under certain conditions, was publicly announced by the Dutch government. Many people thereby concluded that this decision would also allow the sale in coffee shops, and coffee shops began selling cannabis and hashish. This led to an enormous rise in the number of coffee shops in the 80's and 90's, and because of this, new regulations were demanded by the government to regulate the sale of cannabis products by coffee shops. In 1996 the laws were changed again to include new regulations for coffee shops. The terms coffee shops had to follow were:\n\nSince 1996, no new changes have been made to the Opium Law. New guidelines for coffee shops have been made, but they are not covered by the Opium Law.\n\nThe following drugs and intermediates are classified as List I drugs of the Opium Law:\n\nThe esters and derivatives of ecgonine, which can be turned into ecgonine and cocaine;\n\nThe mono- and di-alkylamide-, the pyrollidine- and morpholinederivates of lysergic acid, and the thereby introduction of methyl-, acetyl- or halogengroups obtained substances;\n\nFiveworthy nitrogen-substituted morphinederivates, of which morphine-N-oxide-derivatives, like codeine-N-oxide;\n\nThe isomeres and stereoisomeres of tetrahydrocannabinol;\n\nThe ethers, esters and enantiomeres of the above mentioned substances, with exception of dextromethorphan (INN) as enantiomere of levomethorphan and racemethorphan, and with exception of dextrorphanol (INN) as enantiomere of levorphanol and racemorphan;\n\nFormulations which contain one or more of the above mentioned substances.\n\nThe following drugs are classified as List II drugs of the Opium Law:\n\nFormulations which contain one or more of the above mentioned substances, with exception of hemp oil.\n\nEven though List I substances are officially classified as hard drugs, several of them are often prescribed by licensed doctors. For example, nearly all opioids are List I drugs, but they are commonly prescribed to cancer and HIV patients, as well as sufferers of chronic pain, although prescriptions for opioids are very scarce due to fear of misuse, and they are only prescribed in situations where they are certainly needed, like the terminally ill. Two stimulants which are both prescribed for ADD/ADHD and narcolepsy; dexamphetamine and methylphenidate, are also List I drugs of the Opium Law. On the other hand, all barbiturates except for secobarbital are List II drugs, while none of them, except for phenobarbital, are prescribed today. In theory, a licensed doctor could prescribe any substance they think is needed for the correct treatment of their patient, both List I and List II substances of the Opium Law, though substances which aren't available as commercial pharmaceutical preparations have to be custom prepared by the designated pharmacy.\n\nAll prescriptions for List I and some List II substances (amobarbital, buprenorphine, butalbital, cathine, cyclobarbital, flunitrazepam, temazepam, glutethimide, hemp, pentazocine and pentobarbital) of the Opium Law have to be written in full in letters, and have to contain the name and initials, address, city and telephone number of the licensed prescriber issuing the prescriptions, as well as the name and initials, address and city of the person the prescription is issued to. If the prescription is issued for an animal, the data of the owner should be used instead, and a description of the animal has to be included on the prescription.\n\n"}
{"id": "1811151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1811151", "title": "Political Liberalism", "text": "Political Liberalism\n\nPolitical Liberalism is a 1993 book by John Rawls, an update to his earlier \"A Theory of Justice\" (1971). In it, he attempts to show that his theory of justice is not a \"comprehensive conception of the good\" but is instead compatible with a liberal conception of the role of justice, namely, that government should be neutral between competing conceptions of the good. Rawls tries to show that his two principles of justice, properly understood, form a \"theory of the right\" (as opposed to a theory of the good) which would be supported by all reasonable individuals, even under conditions of reasonable pluralism. The mechanism by which he demonstrates this is called \"overlapping consensus\". Here he also develops his idea of public reason.\n\nAn expanded edition of the book was published in 2005. It includes an added introduction, the essay \"The Idea of Public Reason Revisited\" (1997) — some 60 pp. — and an index to the new material. \n\nA 1993 review by Stuart Hampshire writes that:\n\nSamuel Freeman (1994) concludes that: \n\nFuat Gursozlu (2014) notes a condition for sustainable liberalism identified in the volume: \n\n"}
{"id": "34354177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34354177", "title": "Proto-fascism", "text": "Proto-fascism\n\nProto-fascism refers to the direct predecessor ideologies and cultural movements that influenced and formed the basis of fascism. A prominent proto-fascist figure is Gabriele d'Annunzio, the Italian nationalist whose politics influenced Benito Mussolini and Italian Fascism. Proto-fascist political movements include the Italian Nationalist Association (ANI), the German National Association of Commercial Employees (DHV) and the German National People's Party (DNVP).\n\nPrecedence to modern fascism can be seen in the culture and government of older nations based heavily on law and order, such as the Roman Empire and the anciens régimes of Europe.\n\nOther people that have been labeled proto-fascist are Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Charles Maurras and Ion Dragoumis (by John Mazis in his book \"A Man For All Seasons\")\n"}
{"id": "15447054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15447054", "title": "Recorder of Nottingham", "text": "Recorder of Nottingham\n\nThe Recorder of Nottingham is the highest appointed legal officer of the Crown within the Nottingham City and Nottinghamshire County areas.\n\nThe current Recorder of Nottingham is His Honour Judge Gregory Dickinson QC, who was appointed in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "51582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51582", "title": "Referendum", "text": "Referendum\n\nA referendum (plural: referendums or less commonly referenda) is a direct vote in which an entire electorate is invited to vote on a particular proposal. This may result in the adoption of a new law. In some countries, it is synonymous with a plebiscite or a vote on a ballot question.\n\nSome definitions of 'plebiscite' suggest that it is a type of vote to change the constitution or government of a country. However, some other countries define it differently. For example, Australia defines 'referendum' as a vote to change the constitution, and 'plebiscite' as a vote that does not affect the constitution. In Ireland, the vote to adopt its constitution was called a \"plebiscite\", but a subsequent vote to amend the constitution is called a 'referendum', and so is a poll of the electorate on a non-constitutional bill.\n\n'Referendum' is the gerundive form of the Latin verb \"refero\", literally \"to carry back\" (from the verb \"fero\", \"to bear, bring, carry\" plus the inseparable preposition \"re-\", here meaning \"back\".) As a gerundive is an adjective, not a noun, it cannot be used alone in Latin and must be contained within a context attached to a noun such as \"Propositum qui referendum est populo\", \"A proposal which must be carried back to the people\". The addition of the verb \"sum\" (3rd person singular, \"est\") to a gerundive, denotes the idea of necessity or compulsion, that which \"must\" be done, rather than that which is \"fit for\" doing. Its use as a noun in English is thus not a strictly grammatical usage of a foreign word, but is rather a freshly coined English noun, which therefore follows English grammatical usage, not Latin grammatical usage. This determines the form of the plural in English, which according to English grammar should be \"referendums\". The use of \"referenda\" as a plural form in English (treating it as a Latin word and attempting to apply to it the rules of Latin grammar) is thus insupportable according to the rules of both Latin and English grammar alike. The use of \"referenda\" as a plural form is posited hypothetically as either a gerund or a gerundive by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", which rules out such usage in both cases as follows:\n\n\"Referendums\" is logically preferable as a plural form meaning 'ballots on one issue' (as a Latin gerund, referendum has no plural). The Latin plural gerundive 'referenda', meaning 'things to be referred', necessarily connotes a plurality of issues\".\n\nIt is closely related to the political agenda, \"those matters which must be driven forward\", from \"ago\", to drive (cattle); and the memorandum, \"that matter which must be remembered\", from \"memoro\", to call to mind.\n\nThe name and use of the 'referendum' is thought to have originated in the Swiss canton of Graubünden as early as the 16th century.\n\nThe term 'plebiscite' has a generally similar meaning in modern usage, and comes from the Latin \"plebiscita\", which originally meant a decree of the \"Concilium Plebis\" (Plebeian Council), the popular assembly of the Roman Republic. Today, a referendum can also often be referred to as a plebiscite, but in some countries the two terms are used differently to refer to votes with differing types of legal consequences. For example, Australia defines 'referendum' as a vote to change the constitution, and 'plebiscite' as a vote that does not affect the constitution. In contrast, Ireland has only ever held one plebiscite, which was the vote to adopt its constitution, and every other vote has been called a referendum. Plebiscite has also been used to denote a non-binding vote count such as the one held by Nazi Germany to 'approve' in retrospect the so-called Anschluss with Austria, the question being not 'Do you permit?' but rather 'Do you approve?' of that which has most definitely already occurred.\n\nThe term referendum covers a variety of different meanings. A referendum can be binding or advisory. In some countries, different names are used for these two types of referendum.\n\nReferendums can be further classified by who initiates them: mandatory referendums prescribed by law, voluntary referendums initiated by the legislature or government, and referendums initiated by citizens.\n\nA deliberative referendum is a referendum specifically designed to improve the deliberative qualities of the campaign preceding the referendum vote, and/or of the act of voting itself.\n\nFrom a political-philosophical perspective, referendums are an expression of direct democracy. However, in the modern world, most referendums need to be understood within the context of representative democracy. Therefore, they tend to be used quite selectively, covering issues such as changes in voting systems, where currently elected officials may not have the legitimacy or inclination to implement such changes.\n\nSince the end of the 18th century, hundreds of national referendums have been organised in the world; almost 600 national votes were held in Switzerland since its inauguration as a modern state in 1848. Italy ranked second with 72 national referendums: 67 popular referendums, 3 constitutional referendums, one institutional referendum and one advisory referendum.\n\nA referendum usually offers the electorate a choice of accepting or rejecting a proposal, but this is not necessarily the case. In Switzerland, for example, multiple choice referendums are common. Among several other instances, two multiple choice referendums held in Sweden, in 1957 and in 1980, offered voters three options; in 1977, a referendum held in Australia to determine a new national anthem was held in which voters had four choices; in 1992, New Zealand held a five-option referendum on their electoral system; and in 1982, Guam had one on six options, with an additional blank option for anyone(s) wishing to (campaign and) vote for their own seventh option.\n\nA multiple choice referendum poses the question of how the result is to be determined. If no single option receives the support of an absolute majority (more than half) of voters resort can be made to the two-round system or the alternative vote (AV, which is also called IRV, PV, or STV). In 2018 the Citizens' Assembly considered referendums in Ireland, with 76% supporting allowing more than two options, and 52% favouring STV in such cases. Other people regard a non-majoritarian methodology like the Modified Borda count, MBC as more inclusive and more accurate.\n\nSwiss referendums offer a separate vote on each of the multiple options as well as an additional decision about which of the multiple options should be preferred. In the Swedish case, in both referendums the 'winning' option was chosen by the Single Member Plurality (\"first past the post\") system. In other words, the winning option was deemed to be that supported by a plurality, rather than an absolute majority, of voters. In the 1977, Australian referendum, the winner was chosen by the system of preferential instant-runoff voting, IRV or PV. Polls in Newfoundland (1949) and Guam (1982), for example, were counted under a form of the two-round system, and an unusual form of TRS was used in the 1992 New Zealand poll.\n\nAlthough California does not have deliberate multiple-choice referendums in the Swiss or Swedish sense (in which only one of several counter-propositions can be victorious, and the losing proposals are wholly null and void), it does have so many yes-or-no referendums at each Election Day that the State's Constitution provides a method for resolving conflicts when two or more inconsistent propositions are passed on the same day. This is a de facto form of approval voting—i.e. the proposition with the most \"yes\" votes prevails over the others to the extent of any conflict.\n\nAnother voting system that could be used in multiple-choice referendum is the Condorcet rule.\n\nCritics of the referendum argue that voters in a referendum are more likely to be driven by transient whims than by careful deliberation, or that they are not sufficiently informed to make decisions on complicated or technical issues. Also, voters might be swayed by propaganda, strong personalities, intimidation, and expensive advertising campaigns. James Madison argued that direct democracy is the \"tyranny of the majority\".\n\nSome opposition to the referendum has arisen from its use by dictators such as Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini who, it is argued, used the plebiscite to disguise oppressive policies as populism. Dictators may also make use of referendums as well as show elections to further legitimize their authority such as Benito Mussolini in 1934, Adolf Hitler in 1936, Ferdinand Marcos in 1973, Park Chung-hee in 1972, and Francisco Franco in 1947. Hitler's use of plebiscites is argued as the reason why, since World War II, there has been no provision in Germany for the holding of referendums at the federal level.\n\nIn recent years, referendums have been used strategically by several European governments trying to pursue political and electoral goals.\n\nBritish politician Chris Patten summarized many of the arguments used by those who oppose the referendum in an interview in 2003, when discussing the possibility of a referendum in the United Kingdom on the European Union Constitution:\n\nSome critics of the referendum attack the use of closed questions. A difficulty which can plague a referendum of two issues or more is called the separability problem. If one issue is in fact, or in perception, related to another on the ballot, the imposed simultaneous voting of first preference on each issue can result in an outcome that is displeasing to most.\n\nSeveral commentators have noted that the use of citizens' initiatives to amend constitutions has so tied the government to a mishmash of popular demands as to render the government unworkable. \"The Economist\" has made this point about the US State of California, which has passed so many referendums restricting the ability of the state government to tax the people and pass the budget that the state has become effectively ungovernable. Calls for an entirely new Californian constitution have been made.\n\nA similar problem however arises when elected governments accumulate excessive debts. That can severely reduce the effective margin for later governments.\n\nBoth these problems can be moderated by a combination of other measures as \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54625345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54625345", "title": "Right to explanation", "text": "Right to explanation\n\nIn the regulation of algorithms, particularly artificial intelligence and its subfield of machine learning, a right to explanation (or right to \"an\" explanation) is a right to be given an explanation for an output of the algorithm. Such rights primarily refer to individual rights to be given an explanation for decisions that significantly affect an individual, particularly legally or financially. For example, a person who applies for a loan and is denied may ask for an explanation, which could be \"Credit bureau X reports that you declared bankruptcy last year; this is the main factor in considering you too likely to default, and thus we will not give you the loan you applied for.\"\n\nSome such legal rights already exist, while the scope of a general \"right to explanation\" is a matter of ongoing debate.\n\nCredit score in the United States – more generally, credit actions – have a well-established right to explanation. Under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (Regulation B of the Code of Federal Regulations),\nTitle 12, Chapter X, Part 1002, §1002.9, creditors are required to notify applicants of action taken in certain circumstances, and such notifications must provide specific reasons, as detailed in §1002.9(b)(2):\n\nThe official interpretation of this section details what types of statements are acceptable.\n\nCredit agencies and data analysis firms such as FICO comply with this regulation by providing a list of reasons (generally at most 4, per interpretation of regulations), consisting of a numeric (as identifier) and an associated explanation, identifying the main factors affecting a credit score. An example might be:\n\nThe European Union General Data Protection Regulation (enacted 2016, taking effect 2018), extends the automated decision-making rights in the 1995 Data Protection Directive to provide a legally disputed form of a right to an explanation, stated as such in Recital 71: \"[the data subject should have] the right ... to obtain an explanation of the decision reached\". In full:\n\nHowever, the extent to which the regulations themselves provide a \"right to explanation\" is heavily debated. There are two main strands of criticism. There are significant legal issues with the right as found in Article 22 — as recitals are not binding, and the right to an explanation is not mentioned in the binding articles of the text, having been removed during the legislative process. In addition, there are significant restrictions on the types of automated decisions that are covered — which must be both \"solely\" based on automated processing, and have legal or similarly significant effect — which limits their applicability in many of the cases of algorithmic controversy that have been picked up in the media.\n\nA second source of such a right has been pointed to in Article 15, the \"right of access by the data subject\". This restates a similar provision from the 1995 Data Protection Directive, allowing the data subject access to \"meaningful information about the logic involved\" in the same significant, solely automated decision-making, found in Article 22. Yet this too suffers from alleged challenges that relate to the timing of when this right can be drawn upon, as well as practical challenges that mean it may not be binding in many cases of public concern.\n\nIn France the 2016 \"Loi pour une République numérique\" (Digital Republic Act or \"loi numérique\") amends the country's administrative code to introduce a new provision for the explanation of decisions made by public sector bodies about individuals. It notes that where there is \"a decision taken on the basis of an algorithmic treatment\", the rules that define that treatment and its “principal characteristics” must be communicated to the citizen upon request, where there is not an exclusion (e.g. for national security or defence). These should include the following:\nScholars have noted that this right, while limited to administrative decisions, goes beyond the GDPR right to explicitly apply to decision support rather than decisions \"solely\" based on automated processing, as well as provides a framework for explaining specific decisions. Indeed, the GDPR automated decision-making rights in the European Union, one of the places a \"right to an explanation\" has been sought within, find their origins in French law in the late 1970s.\n\nSome argue that a \"right to explanation\" is at best unnecessary, at worst harmful, and threatens to stifle innovation. Specific criticisms include: favoring human decisions over machine decisions; being redundant with existing laws; and focusing on process over outcome.\n\nMore fundamentally, many algorithms used in machine learning are not easily explainable. For example, the output of a deep neural network depends on many layers of computations, connected in a complex way, and no one input or computation may be a dominant factor. The field of Explainable AI seeks to provide better explanations from existing algorithms, and algorithms that are more easily explainable, but it is a young and active field.\n\nSimilarly, human decisions often cannot be easily explained: they may be based on intuition or a \"gut feeling\" that is hard to put into words. Requiring machines to meet a higher standard than humans is thus arguably unreasonable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "68493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68493", "title": "Roe v. Wade", "text": "Roe v. Wade\n\nRoe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), is a landmark decision issued in 1973 by the United States Supreme Court on the issue of the constitutionality of laws that criminalized or restricted access to abortions. The Court ruled 7–2 that a right to privacy under the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment extended to a woman's decision to have an abortion, but that this right must be balanced against the state's interests in regulating abortions: protecting women's health and protecting the potentiality of human life. Arguing that these state interests became stronger over the course of a pregnancy, the Court resolved this balancing test by tying state regulation of abortion to the third trimester of pregnancy.\n\nLater, in \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" (1992), the Court rejected \"Roe\"s trimester framework while affirming its central holding that a woman has a right to abortion until fetal viability. The \" Roe\" decision defined \"viable\" as \"potentially able to live outside the mother's womb, albeit with artificial aid.\" Justices in \"Casey\" acknowledged that viability may occur at 23 or 24 weeks, or sometimes even earlier, in light of medical advances.\n\nIn disallowing many state and federal restrictions on abortion in the United States, \"Roe v. Wade\" prompted a national debate that continues today about issues including whether, and to what extent, abortion should be legal, who should decide the legality of abortion, what methods the Supreme Court should use in constitutional adjudication, and what the role should be of religious and moral views in the political sphere. \"Roe v. Wade\" reshaped national politics, dividing much of the United States into pro-life and pro-choice camps, while activating grassroots movements on both sides.\n\n\"Roe\" received significant criticism in the legal community, with the decision being widely seen as an extreme form of judicial activism. In a highly cited 1973 article in the \"Yale Law Journal\", John Hart Ely criticized \"Roe\" as a decision that \"is not constitutional law and gives almost no sense of an obligation to try to be.\" Ely added: \"What is frightening about \"Roe\" is that this super-protected right is not inferable from the language of the Constitution, the framers’ thinking respecting the specific problem in issue, any general value derivable from the provisions they included, or the nation's governmental structure.\" Professor Laurence Tribe had similar thoughts: \"One of the most curious things about \"Roe\" is that, behind its own verbal smokescreen, the substantive judgment on which it rests is nowhere to be found.\"\n\nAccording to the Court, \"the restrictive criminal abortion laws in effect in a majority of States today are of relatively recent vintage.\" Providing a historical analysis on abortion, Justice Harry Blackmun noted that abortion was \"resorted to without scruple\" in Greek and Roman times. Blackmun also addressed the permissive and restrictive abortion attitudes and laws throughout history, noting the disagreements among leaders (of all different professions) in those eras and the formative laws and cases. In the United States, in 1821, Connecticut passed the first state statute criminalizing abortion. Every state had abortion legislation by 1900. In the United States, abortion was sometimes considered a common law crime, though Justice Blackmun would conclude that the criminalization of abortion did not have \"roots in the English common-law tradition.\" Rather than arresting the women having the abortions, legal officials were more likely to interrogate these women to obtain evidence against the abortion provider in order to close down that provider's business.\n\nIn June 1969, 21-year-old Norma McCorvey discovered she was pregnant with her third child. She returned to Dallas, Texas, where friends advised her to assert falsely that she had been raped in order to obtain a legal abortion (with the understanding that Texas law allowed abortion in cases of rape and incest). However, this scheme failed because there was no police report documenting the alleged rape. In any case, the Texas statute allowed abortion only ”for the purpose of saving the life of the mother”. She attempted to obtain an Illegal abortion, but found that the unauthorized facility had been closed down by the police. Eventually, she was referred to attorneys Linda Coffee and Sarah Weddington. (McCorvey would end up giving birth before the case was decided, and the child was put up for adoption.)\n\nIn 1970, Coffee and Weddington filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas on behalf of McCorvey (under the alias Jane Roe). The defendant in the case was Dallas County District Attorney Henry Wade, who represented the State of Texas. McCorvey was no longer claiming her pregnancy was a result of rape, and later acknowledged that she had lied about having been raped. \"Rape\" is not mentioned in the judicial opinions in the case.\n\nOn June 17, 1970, a three-judge panel of the District Court, consisting of Northern District of Texas Judges Sarah T. Hughes, William McLaughlin Taylor Jr. and Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Irving Loeb Goldberg, unanimously declared the Texas law unconstitutional, finding that it violated the right to privacy found in the Ninth Amendment. In addition, the court relied on Justice Arthur Goldberg's 1965 concurrence in \"Griswold v. Connecticut\". The court, however, declined to grant an injunction against enforcement of the law.\n\nIn 1971, Shirley Wheeler was charged with manslaughter after Florida hospital staff reported her illegal abortion to the police. She received a sentence of two years' probation and, under her probation, had to move back into her parents' house in North Carolina. The Boston Women's Abortion Coalition held a rally for Wheeler in Boston to raise money and awareness of her charges as well as had staff members from the Women's National Abortion Action Coalition (WONAAC) speak at the rally. Wheeler was possibly the first woman to be held criminally responsible for submitting to an abortion. Her conviction was overturned by the Florida Supreme Court.\n\n\"Roe v. Wade\" reached the Supreme Court on appeal in 1970. The justices delayed taking action on \"Roe\" and a closely related case, \"Doe v. Bolton\", until they had decided \"Younger v. Harris\" (because they felt the appeals raised difficult questions on judicial jurisdiction) and \"United States v. Vuitch\" (in which they considered the constitutionality of a District of Columbia statute that criminalized abortion except where the mother's life or health was endangered). In \"Vuitch\", the Court narrowly upheld the statute, though in doing so, it treated abortion as a medical procedure and stated that physicians must be given room to determine what constitutes a danger to (physical or mental) health. The day after they announced their decision in \"Vuitch\", they voted to hear both \"Roe\" and \"Doe\".\n\nArguments were scheduled by the full Court for December 13, 1971. Before the Court could hear the oral arguments, Justices Hugo Black and John Marshall Harlan II retired. Chief Justice Warren Burger asked Justice Potter Stewart and Justice Blackmun to determine whether \"Roe\" and \"Doe\", among others, should be heard as scheduled. According to Blackmun, Stewart felt that the cases were a straightforward application of \"Younger v. Harris\", and they recommended that the Court move forward as scheduled.\n\nIn his opening argument in defense of the abortion restrictions, attorney Jay Floyd made what was later described as the \"worst joke in legal history.\" Appearing against two female lawyers, Floyd began, \"Mr. Chief Justice and may it please the Court. It's an old joke, but when a man argues against two beautiful ladies like this, they are going to have the last word.\" His remark was met with cold silence; one observer thought that Chief Justice Burger \"was going to come right off the bench at him. He glared him down.\"\n\nAfter a first round of arguments, all seven justices tentatively agreed that the Texas law should be struck down, but on varying grounds. Burger assigned the role of writing the Court's opinion in \"Roe\" (as well as \"Doe\") to Blackmun, who began drafting a preliminary opinion that emphasized what he saw as the Texas law's vagueness. (At this point, Black and Harlan had been replaced by Justices William Rehnquist and Lewis F. Powell Jr., but they arrived too late to hear the first round of arguments.) But Blackmun felt that his opinion did not adequately reflect his liberal colleagues' views. In May 1972, he proposed that the case be reargued. Justice William O. Douglas threatened to write a dissent from the reargument order (he and the other liberal justices were suspicious that Rehnquist and Powell would vote to uphold the statute), but was coaxed out of the action by his colleagues, and his dissent was merely mentioned in the reargument order without further statement or opinion. The case was reargued on October 11, 1972. Weddington continued to represent \"Roe\", and Texas Assistant Attorney General Robert C. Flowers replaced Jay Floyd for Texas.\n\nBlackmun continued to work on his opinions in both cases over the summer recess, even though there was no guarantee that he would be assigned to write them again. Over the recess, he spent a week researching the history of abortion at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, where he had worked in the 1950s. After the Court heard the second round of arguments, Powell said he would agree with Blackmun's conclusion but pushed for \"Roe\" to be the lead of the two abortion cases being considered. Powell also suggested that the Court strike down the Texas law on privacy grounds. Justice Byron White was unwilling to sign on to Blackmun's opinion, and Rehnquist had already decided to dissent.\n\nThe Court issued its decision on January 22, 1973, with a 7-to-2 majority vote in favor of Roe. Justices Burger, Douglas, and Stewart filed concurring opinions, and Justice White filed a dissenting opinion in which Justice Rehnquist joined. Burger's, Douglas's, and White's opinions were issued along with the Court's opinion in \"Doe v. Bolton\" (announced on the same day as \"Roe v. Wade\"). The Court deemed abortion a fundamental right under the United States Constitution, thereby subjecting all laws attempting to restrict it to the standard of strict scrutiny.\n\nThe Court declined to adopt the district court's Ninth Amendment rationale, and instead asserted that the \"right of privacy, whether it be founded in the Fourteenth Amendment's concept of personal liberty and restrictions upon state action, as we feel it is, or, as the district court determined, in the Ninth Amendment's reservation of rights to the people, is broad enough to encompass a woman's decision whether or not to terminate her pregnancy.\" Douglas, in his concurring opinion in the companion case, Doe, stated more emphatically, \"The Ninth Amendment obviously does not create federally enforceable rights.\"\n\nJustice Blackmun's majority opinion explicitly rejected a fetal \"right to life\" argument. The Court instead recognized the right to an abortion as a fundamental right included within the guarantee of personal privacy. As a result, regulations limiting abortion had to be justified by a \"compelling state interest,\" and legislative enactments regulating abortion had to be narrowly tailored to meet the compelling interests; in other words, Justice Blackmun applied a strict scrutiny analysis to abortion regulations.\n\nWhile acknowledging that the right to abortion was not unlimited, Justice Blackmun, speaking for the Court, created a trimester framework to balance the fundamental right to abortion with the government's two legitimate interests: protecting the mother's health and protecting the \"potentiality of human life.\" The trimester framework addressed when a woman's fundamental right to abortion would be absolute, and when the state's interests would become compelling. In the first trimester, when it was believed that the procedure was safer than childbirth, the Court left the decision to abort completely to the woman and her physician. From approximately the end of the first trimester until fetal viability, the state's interest in protecting the health of the mother would become \"compelling.\" At that time, the state could regulate the abortion procedure if the regulation \"reasonably relate[d] to the \"preservation and protection of maternal health.\" At the point of viability, which the Court believed to be in the third trimester, the state's interest in \"potential life\" would become compelling, and the state could regulate abortion to protect \"potential life.\" At that point, the state could even forbid abortion so long as it made an exception to preserve the life or health of the mother. The Court added that the primary right being preserved in the \"Roe\" decision was that of the physician to practice medicine freely absent a compelling state interest – not women's rights in general. In 1992, however, the plurality of Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, David Souter, and Anthony Kennedy made a subtle move away from the physician's-rights approach of \"Roe\" and toward a patient's-rights approach in \"Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey\". The plurality in \"Casey\", explicitly confirming that women had a constitutional right to abortion and further upholding the \"essential holding\" of \"Roe\", stated that women had a right to choose abortion before viability and that this right could not be unduly interfered with by the state. They asserted that this right was rooted in the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nPrior to the decision, the justices discussed the trimester framework at great length. Justice Powell had suggested that the point where the state could intervene be placed at viability, which Justice Thurgood Marshall supported as well. In an internal memo to the other justices before the majority decision was published, Justice Blackmun wrote: \"You will observe that I have concluded that the end of the first trimester is critical. This is arbitrary, but perhaps any other selected point, such as quickening or viability, is equally arbitrary.\" Roe supporters are quick to point out, however, that the memo only reflects Blackmun's uncertainty about the timing of the trimester framework, not the framework or the holding itself. In his opinion, Blackmun also clearly explained how he had reached the trimester framework – scrutinizing history, common law, the Hippocratic Oath, medical knowledge, and the positions of medical organizations. Justice Blackmun's trimester framework was later rejected by the O'Connor–Souter–Kennedy plurality in \"Casey\", in favor of the \"undue burden\" analysis still employed by the Court. Contrary to Blackmun, Justice Douglas preferred the first-trimester line. Justice Stewart said the lines were \"legislative\" and wanted more flexibility and consideration paid to state legislatures, though he joined Blackmun's decision. Justice William J. Brennan Jr. proposed abandoning frameworks based on the age of the fetus and instead allowing states to regulate the procedure based on its safety for the mother.\n\nThe majority opinion allowed states to protect fetal life after viability even though a fetus is not a person within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nAn aspect of the decision that attracted comparatively little attention was the Court's disposition of the issues of standing and mootness. Under the traditional interpretation of these rules, Jane Roe's appeal was \"moot\" because she had already given birth to her child and thus would not be affected by the ruling; she also lacked \"standing\" to assert the rights of other pregnant women. As she did not present an \"actual case or controversy\" (a grievance and a demand for relief), any opinion issued by the Supreme Court would constitute an advisory opinion.\n\nThe Court concluded that the case came within an established exception to the rule: one that allowed consideration of an issue that was \"capable of repetition, yet evading review.\" This phrase had been coined in 1911 by Justice Joseph McKenna in \"Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. ICC\". Blackmun's opinion quoted McKenna and noted that pregnancy would normally conclude more quickly than an appellate process: \"If that termination makes a case moot, pregnancy litigation seldom will survive much beyond the trial stage, and appellate review will be effectively denied.\"\n\nJustices White and Rehnquist wrote emphatic dissenting opinions. White wrote:\nWhite asserted that the Court \"values the convenience of the pregnant mother more than the continued existence and development of the life or potential life that she carries.\" Though he suggested that he \"might agree\" with the Court's values and priorities, he wrote that he saw \"no constitutional warrant for imposing such an order of priorities on the people and legislatures of the States.\" White criticized the Court for involving itself in the issue of abortion by creating \"a constitutional barrier to state efforts to protect human life and by investing mothers and doctors with the constitutionally protected right to exterminate it.\" He would have left this issue, for the most part, \"with the people and to the political processes the people have devised to govern their affairs.\"\n\nRehnquist elaborated on several of White's points, asserting that the Court's historical analysis was flawed:\nFrom this historical record, Rehnquist concluded, \"There apparently was no question concerning the validity of this provision or of any of the other state statutes when the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted.\" Therefore, in his view, \"the drafters did not intend to have the Fourteenth Amendment withdraw from the States the power to legislate with respect to this matter.\"\n\nA statistical evaluation of the relationship of political affiliation to pro-choice and anti-abortion issues shows that public opinion is much more nuanced about when abortion is acceptable than is commonly assumed.\nThe most prominent organized groups that mobilized in response to \"Roe\" are the National Abortion Rights Action League and the National Right to Life Committee.\n\nAdvocates of \"Roe\" describe it as vital to the preservation of women's rights, personal freedom, bodily integrity, and privacy. Advocates have also reasoned that access to safe abortion and reproductive freedom generally are fundamental rights. Some scholars (not including any member of the Supreme Court) have equated the denial of abortion rights to compulsory motherhood, and have argued that abortion bans therefore violate the Thirteenth Amendment:\n\nSupporters of \"Roe\" contend that the decision has a valid constitutional foundation in the Fourteenth Amendment, or that the fundamental right to abortion is found elsewhere in the Constitution but not in the articles referenced in the decision.\n\nEvery year, on the anniversary of the decision, opponents of abortion march up Constitution Avenue to the Supreme Court Building in Washington, DC, in the March for Life. Around 250,000 people attended the march until 2010. Estimates put the 2011 and 2012 attendances at 400,000 each, and the 2013 March for Life drew an estimated 650,000 people.\n\nOpponents of \"Roe\" assert that the decision lacks a valid constitutional foundation. Like the dissenters in \"Roe\", they maintain that the Constitution is silent on the issue, and that proper solutions to the question would best be found via state legislatures and the legislative process, rather than through an all-encompassing ruling from the Supreme Court.\n\nA prominent argument against the \"Roe\" decision is that, in the absence of consensus about when meaningful life begins, it is best to avoid the risk of doing harm.\n\nIn response to \"Roe v. Wade\", most states enacted or attempted to enact laws limiting or regulating abortion, such as laws requiring parental consent or parental notification for minors to obtain abortions; spousal mutual consent laws; spousal notification laws; laws requiring abortions to be performed in hospitals, not clinics; laws barring state funding for abortions; laws banning intact dilation and extraction, also known as partial-birth abortion; laws requiring waiting periods before abortions; and laws mandating that women read certain types of literature and watch a fetal ultrasound before undergoing an abortion. In 1976, Congress passed the Hyde Amendment, barring federal funding of abortions (except in cases of rape, incest, or a threat to the life of the mother) for poor women through the Medicaid program. The Supreme Court struck down some state restrictions in a long series of cases stretching from the mid-1970s to the late 1980s, but upheld restrictions on funding, including the Hyde Amendment, in the case of \"Harris v. McRae\" (1980).\n\nSome opponents of abortion maintain that personhood begins at fertilization or conception, and should therefore be protected by the Constitution; the dissenting justices in \"Roe\" instead wrote that decisions about abortion \"should be left with the people and to the political processes the people have devised to govern their affairs.\"\n\nPerhaps the most notable opposition to \"Roe\" comes from Roe herself: In 1995, Norma L. McCorvey revealed that she had become pro-life, and from then until her death in 2017, she was a vocal opponent of abortion.\n\nJustice Blackmun, who authored the \"Roe\" decision, stood by the analytical framework he established in \"Roe\" throughout his career. Despite his initial reluctance, he became the decision's chief champion and protector during his later years on the Court.\nLiberal and feminist legal scholars have had various reactions to \"Roe\", not always giving the decision unqualified support. One argument is that Justice Blackmun reached the correct result but went about it the wrong way. Another is that the end achieved by \"Roe\" does not justify its means of judicial fiat.\n\nJustice John Paul Stevens, while agreeing with the decision, has suggested that it should have been more narrowly focused on the issue of privacy. According to Stevens, if the decision had avoided the trimester framework and simply stated that the right to privacy included a right to choose abortion, \"it might have been much more acceptable\" from a legal standpoint. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg had, before joining the Court, criticized the decision for ending a nascent movement to liberalize abortion law through legislation. Ginsburg has also faulted the Court's approach for being \"about a doctor's freedom to practice his profession as he thinks best... It wasn't woman-centered. It was physician-centered.\" Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox wrote: \"[\"Roe\"s] failure to confront the issue in principled terms leaves the opinion to read like a set of hospital rules and regulations... Neither historian, nor layman, nor lawyer will be persuaded that all the prescriptions of Justice Blackmun are part of the Constitution.\"\n\nIn a highly cited 1973 article in the \"Yale Law Journal\", Professor John Hart Ely criticized \"Roe\" as a decision that \"is not constitutional law and gives almost no sense of an obligation to try to be.\" Ely added: \"What is frightening about \"Roe\" is that this super-protected right is not inferable from the language of the Constitution, the framers’ thinking respecting the specific problem in issue, any general value derivable from the provisions they included, or the nation's governmental structure.\" Professor Laurence Tribe had similar thoughts: \"One of the most curious things about \"Roe\" is that, behind its own verbal smokescreen, the substantive judgment on which it rests is nowhere to be found.\" Liberal law professors Alan Dershowitz, Cass Sunstein, and Kermit Roosevelt have also expressed disappointment with \"Roe\".\n\nJeffrey Rosen and Michael Kinsley echo Ginsburg, arguing that a legislative movement would have been the correct way to build a more durable consensus in support of abortion rights. William Saletan wrote, \"Blackmun's [Supreme Court] papers vindicate every indictment of \"Roe\": invention, overreach, arbitrariness, textual indifference.\" Benjamin Wittes has written that \"Roe\" \"disenfranchised millions of conservatives on an issue about which they care deeply.\" And Edward Lazarus, a former Blackmun clerk who \"loved \"Roe\"s author like a grandfather,\" wrote: \"As a matter of constitutional interpretation and judicial method, \"Roe\" borders on the indefensible... Justice Blackmun's opinion provides essentially no reasoning in support of its holding. And in the almost 30 years since \"Roe\"'s announcement, no one has produced a convincing defense of \"Roe\" on its own terms.\"\n\nThe assertion that the Supreme Court was making a legislative decision is often repeated by opponents of the ruling. The \"viability\" criterion is still in effect, although the point of viability has changed as medical science has found ways to help premature babies survive.\n\nA Gallup poll conducted in May 2014 indicates that 50% of Americans believe that abortions should be legal under certain circumstances, 28% believe abortion should be legal under any circumstances, and 21% believe that abortion should be illegal in all circumstances.\n\nA Gallup poll conducted in May 2009 indicates that 53% of Americans believe that abortions should be legal under certain circumstances, 23% believe abortion should be legal under any circumstances, and 22% believe that abortion should be illegal in all circumstances. However, in this poll, more Americans referred to themselves as \"Pro-Life\" than \"Pro-Choice\" for the first time since the poll asked the question in 1995, with 51% identifying as \"Pro-Life\" and 42% identifying as \"Pro-Choice\". Similarly, an April 2009 Pew Research Center poll showed a softening of support for legal abortion in all cases compared to the previous years of polling. People who said they support abortion in all or most cases dropped from 54% in 2008 to 46% in 2009.\n\nIn contrast, an October 2007 Harris poll on \"Roe v. Wade\" asked the following question:\nIn reply, 56 percent of respondents indicated favour while 40 percent indicated opposition. The Harris organization concluded from this poll that \"56 percent now favours the U.S. Supreme Court decision.\" Anti-abortion activists have disputed whether the Harris poll question is a valid measure of public opinion about \"Roe\"s overall decision, because the question focuses only on the first three months of pregnancy. The Harris poll has tracked public opinion about \"Roe\" since 1973:\n\nRegarding the \"Roe\" decision as a whole, more Americans support it than support overturning it. When pollsters describe various regulations that \"Roe\" prevents legislatures from enacting, support for \"Roe\" drops.\n\nOpposition to \"Roe\" on the bench grew when President Reagan, who supported legislative restrictions on abortion, began making federal judicial appointments in 1981. Reagan denied that there was any litmus test: \"I have never given a litmus test to anyone that I have appointed to the bench…. I feel very strongly about those social issues, but I also place my confidence in the fact that the one thing that I do seek are judges that will interpret the law and not write the law. We've had too many examples in recent years of courts and judges legislating.\"\n\nIn addition to White and Rehnquist, Reagan appointee Sandra Day O'Connor began dissenting from the Court's abortion cases, arguing in 1983 that the trimester-based analysis devised by the \"Roe\" Court was \"unworkable.\" Shortly before his retirement from the bench, Chief Justice Warren Burger suggested in 1986 that \"Roe\" be \"reexamined\"; the associate justice who filled Burger's place on the Court – Justice Antonin Scalia – vigorously opposed \"Roe\". Concern about overturning \"Roe\" played a major role in the defeat of Robert Bork's nomination to the Court in 1987; the man eventually appointed to replace \"Roe\"-supporter Lewis Powell was Anthony Kennedy.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada used the rulings in both \"Roe\" and \"Doe v. Bolton\" as grounds to find Canada's federal law restricting access to abortions unconstitutional. That Canadian case, \"R. v. Morgentaler\", was decided in 1988.\n\nIn a 5–4 decision in 1989's \"Webster v. Reproductive Health Services\", Chief Justice Rehnquist, writing for the Court, declined to explicitly overrule \"Roe\", because \"none of the challenged provisions of the Missouri Act properly before us conflict with the Constitution.\" In this case, the Court upheld several abortion restrictions, and modified the \"Roe\" trimester framework.\n\nIn concurring opinions, O'Connor refused to reconsider \"Roe\", and Justice Antonin Scalia criticized the Court and O'Connor for not overruling \"Roe\". Blackmun – author of the \"Roe\" opinion – stated in his dissent that White, Kennedy and Rehnquist were \"callous\" and \"deceptive,\" that they deserved to be charged with \"cowardice and illegitimacy,\" and that their plurality opinion \"foments disregard for the law.\" White had recently opined that the majority reasoning in \"Roe v. Wade\" was \"warped.\"\n\nDuring initial deliberations for \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" (1992), an initial majority of five Justices (Rehnquist, White, Scalia, Kennedy, and Thomas) were willing to effectively overturn \"Roe\". Kennedy changed his mind after the initial conference, and O'Connor, Kennedy, and Souter joined Blackmun and Stevens to reaffirm the central holding of \"Roe\", saying, \"Our law affords constitutional protection to personal decisions relating to marriage, procreation, contraception, family relationships, child rearing, and education. [...] These matters, involving the most intimate and personal choices a person may make in a lifetime, choices central to personal dignity and autonomy, are central to the liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. At the heart of liberty is the right to define one's own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life.\" Only Justice Blackmun would have retained \"Roe\" entirely and struck down all aspects of the statute at issue in \"Casey\".\n\nScalia's dissent acknowledged that abortion rights are of \"great importance to many women\", but asserted that it is not a liberty protected by the Constitution, because the Constitution does not mention it, and because longstanding traditions have permitted it to be legally proscribed. Scalia concluded: \"[B]y foreclosing all democratic outlet for the deep passions this issue arouses, by banishing the issue from the political forum that gives all participants, even the losers, the satisfaction of a fair hearing and an honest fight, by continuing the imposition of a rigid national rule instead of allowing for regional differences, the Court merely prolongs and intensifies the anguish.\"\n\nDuring the 1990s, the state of Nebraska attempted to ban a certain second-trimester abortion procedure known as intact dilation and extraction (sometimes called partial birth abortion). The Nebraska ban allowed other second-trimester abortion procedures called dilation and evacuation abortions. Ginsburg (who replaced White) stated, \"this law does not save any fetus from destruction, for it targets only 'a method of performing abortion'.\" The Supreme Court struck down the Nebraska ban by a 5–4 vote in \"Stenberg v. Carhart\" (2000), citing a right to use the safest method of second trimester abortion.\n\nKennedy, who had co-authored the 5-4 \"Casey\" decision upholding \"Roe\", was among the dissenters in \"Stenberg\", writing that Nebraska had done nothing unconstitutional. In his dissent, Kennedy described the second trimester abortion procedure that Nebraska was not seeking to prohibit, and thus argued that since this dilation and evacuation procedure remained available in Nebraska, the state was free to ban the other procedure sometimes called \"partial birth abortion.\"\n\nThe remaining three dissenters in \"Stenberg\" – Rehnquist, Scalia, and Thomas – disagreed again with \"Roe\": \"Although a State may permit abortion, nothing in the Constitution dictates that a State must do so.\"\n\nIn 2003, Congress passed the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, which led to a lawsuit in the case of \"Gonzales v. Carhart\". The Court had previously ruled in \"Stenberg v. Carhart\" that a state's ban on \"partial birth abortion\" was unconstitutional because such a ban did not have an exception for the health of the woman. The membership of the Court changed after \"Stenberg\", with John Roberts and Samuel Alito replacing Rehnquist and O'Connor, respectively. Further, the ban at issue in \"Gonzales v. Carhart\" was a clear federal statute, rather than a relatively vague state statute as in the \"Stenberg\" case.\n\nOn April 18, 2007, the Supreme Court handed down a 5 to 4 decision upholding the constitutionality of the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act. Kennedy wrote the majority opinion, asserting that Congress was within its power to generally ban the procedure, although the Court left the door open for as-applied challenges. Kennedy's opinion did not reach the question of whether the Court's prior decisions in \"Roe v. Wade\", \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\", and \"Stenberg v. Carhart\" remained valid, and instead the Court stated that the challenged statute remained consistent with those past decisions whether or not those decisions remained valid.\n\nChief Justice John Roberts, Scalia, Thomas, and Alito joined the majority. Justices Ginsburg, Stevens, Souter, and Breyer dissented, contending that the ruling ignored Supreme Court abortion precedent, and also offering an equality-based justification for abortion precedent. Thomas filed a concurring opinion, joined by Scalia, contending that the Court's prior decisions in \"Roe v. Wade\" and \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" should be reversed, and also noting that the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act possibly exceeded the powers of Congress under the Commerce Clause.\n\nIn the case of \"Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt\", the most significant abortion rights case before the Supreme Court since \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" in 1992, the Supreme Court in a 5–3 decision on June 27, 2016, swept away forms of state restrictions on the way abortion clinics can function. The Texas legislature enacted in 2013 restrictions on the delivery of abortions services that created an undue burden for women seeking an abortion by requiring abortion doctors to have difficult-to-obtain \"admitting privileges\" at a local hospital and by requiring clinics to have costly hospital-grade facilities. The Court struck down these two provisions \"facially\" from the law at issue – that is, the very words of the provisions were invalid, no matter how they might be applied in any practical situation. According to the Supreme Court the task of judging whether a law puts an unconstitutional burden on a woman's right to abortion belongs with the courts and not the legislatures.\n\nNorma McCorvey became a member of the anti-abortion movement in 1995; she supported making abortion illegal until her death in 2017. In 1998, she testified to Congress:\nAs a party to the original litigation, she sought to reopen the case in U.S. District Court in Texas to have \"Roe v. Wade\" overturned. However, the Fifth Circuit decided that her case was moot, in \"McCorvey v. Hill\". In a concurring opinion, Judge Edith Jones agreed that McCorvey was raising legitimate questions about emotional and other harm suffered by women who have had abortions, about increased resources available for the care of unwanted children, and about new scientific understanding of fetal development, but Jones said she was compelled to agree that the case was moot. On February 22, 2005, the Supreme Court refused to grant a writ of certiorari, and McCorvey's appeal ended.\n\nAfter arguing before the Court in \"Roe v. Wade\" at the age of 26, Sarah Weddington went on to be a representative in the Texas House of Representatives for three terms. Weddington has also had a long and successful career as General Counsel for the United States Department of Agriculture, Assistant to President Jimmy Carter, lecturer at Texas Wesleyan University, and speaker and adjunct professor at the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nPresident Richard Nixon did not publicly comment about the decision. In private conversation later revealed as part of the Nixon tapes, Nixon said \"There are times when an abortion is necessary... .\" However, Nixon was also concerned that greater access to abortions would foster \"permissiveness,\" and said that \"it breaks the family.\"\n\nGenerally, presidential opinion has been split between major party lines. The \"Roe\" decision was opposed by Presidents Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan, and George W. Bush. President George H.W. Bush also opposed \"Roe\", though he had supported abortion rights earlier in his career.\n\nPresident Jimmy Carter supported legal abortion from an early point in his political career, in order to prevent birth defects and in other extreme cases; he encouraged the outcome in \"Roe\" and generally supported abortion rights. \"Roe\" was also supported by President Bill Clinton. President Barack Obama has taken the position that \"Abortions should be legally available in accordance with \"Roe v. Wade\".\" \n\nPresident Donald Trump has publicly opposed the decision, vowing to appoint pro-life justices to the Supreme Court. Upon Justice Kennedy's retirement in 2018, Trump nominated Brett Kavanaugh to replace him, and he was confirmed by Congress in October 2018. A central point of Kavanaugh's appointment hearings was his stance on \"Roe V. Wade\", of which he said to Senator Susan Collins that he would not \"overturn a long-established precedent if five current justices believed that it was wrongly decided\". Despite Kavanaugh's statement, there is concern that with the Supreme Court having a strong conservative majority, that \"Roe v. Wade\" will be overturned given an appropriate case to challenge it. Pro-abortion organizations like Planned Parenthood are planning on how they will operate should \"Roe v. Wade\" be overturned.\n\nSeveral states have enacted so-called trigger laws which would take effect in the event that \"Roe v. Wade\" is overturned, with the effect of outlawing abortions on the state level. Those states include Arkansas, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Dakota and South Dakota. Additionally, many states did not repeal pre-1973 statutes that criminalized abortion, and some of those statutes could again be in force if \"Roe\" were reversed.\n\nOther states have passed laws to maintain the legality of abortion if \"Roe v. Wade\" is overturned. Those states include California, Connecticut, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Nevada and Washington.\n\nThe Mississippi Legislature has attempted to make abortion unfeasible without having to overturn \"Roe v. Wade\". The Mississippi law as of 2012 was being challenged in federal courts and was temporarily blocked.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12154634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12154634", "title": "Salomón–Lozano Treaty", "text": "Salomón–Lozano Treaty\n\nThe Salomón–Lozano Treaty was signed in July 1922 by representatives of Colombia and Peru. The fourth in a succession of treaties on the Colombian-Peruvian disputes over land in the upper Amazon region, it was intended to be a comprehensive settlement of the long border dispute between the two countries.\n\nThe result of a Peruvian attack on the river town of Puerto Córdoba, the treaty made both countries to scale back the number of troops in the region. It essentially created a border between both nations along the Putumayo River. Also, Colombia recognized Peruvian territorial claims to the Amazon east of Ecuador.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43196575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43196575", "title": "Sardinian banditry", "text": "Sardinian banditry\n\nSardinian banditry was a criminal phenomenon typical of Sardinia.\n\nThe phenomenon of banditry has a particular importance in the history of Sardinia.\nThe Code enacted in the reign of Carlo Felice (1827) stated that: \"were reputed bandits that were not declared as such by the public pregone: I already sentenced to the jail; those who investigated the crime of similar major penalty, had already been cited to defend himself, as well as those whose arrest was decreed by the competent court, if it gave to the bush to escape from justice.\"\n\nA bandit, then, is one who has voluntarily removed from the execution of a command of the law. The Sardinian bandit beats the campaign and commits other crimes.\n\nThe banditry in Sardinia was already known since the times of the ancient Romans, when it assumed the character of latent \"national\" rebellion and a social nature. In the Roman period, banditry was primarily cattle rustling and damage to property.\nOften those who practiced it were shepherds, the inhabitants of the mountains; speakers as Cicero called it \"latrunculi mastrucati\".\n\nEleanor of Arborea, in her \"Carta de Logu\", authorized unconventional remedies in order to suppress banditry.\nIn 1477, there is news, though not official, of the first kidnapping for ransom in Sardinia, which occurred in the Baronia of Posada between Olbia and Siniscola.\nDuring the next centuries the phenomenon continued to occur but became particularly evident during the Spanish period.\n\nBeginning in the sixteenth century, the countries were racing from \"homines facinorosos en que van quadrilla\", real gangs like that of Manunzio Fiore.\nThe phenomenon was of such importance that in 1574 it was ordained a \"Prammatica\" with which they were taken to prevent the formation of gangs and especially to prevent the facilitation of (often by the same landowners) made possible criminal activity.\nDuring the seventeenth century the phenomenon of armed gangs developed further: the countries of Sassari, Nuoro, Goceano and Gallura, thanks to the nature of the place, became the scene of companies fearsome gangs were soon in a position to compromise seriously public order.\n\nThe situation did not change with the advent of the House of Savoy, so, already in 1720, the first measures were enacted for the suppression of the phenomenon.\nOn March 13, 1759, a \"Regulations for the Administration of the Justice in the Kingdom of Sardinia\" was enacted.\nIn the second half of the 18th century, in certain areas of the island (such as the Gallura), banditry was linked to smuggling.\nDuring the first half of the nineteenth century, the banditry was connected with bloody clashes between family clans.\nThe clashes were interspersed with \"peaces\", practices endorsed by the authorities and that included all the members of rival clans the family heads of villages swearing in church, followed by the granting of pardons and safe-conduct on the part of the authorities.\n\nThe public peace, unfortunately, was not reached: in the second half of the endemic social crisis, poverty, difficulties in relations with the authorities, led the bandits to appear in ever more features.\nIn particular, it was practiced by bands formed for the occasion, the \"bardana\", which was an armed expedition to plunder a village, and the \"robbery\", always an armed expedition to capture a country in view of the stripping of a rich owner: did the shot bands melted, making it difficult for the investigators.\nThe most famous of these expeditions was the one that went down in history as \"the bardana of Tortolì\".\n\nIn the night between 13 and November 14, 1894 a group formed by a hundred horsemen came to Tortolì and besieged the house of a rich owner, Vittorio Depau, killed a servant (wounded by several stab wounds and ended up with a gunshot to the head ) who had fired against the criminals and invaded and raided the house, whose inhabitants had barricaded themselves in a safe in the attic.\nThe carabinieri (there were only seven) failed to curb the raid but managed to kill a bandit, whose body was taken away from the others and found a few days later in rural areas of the country stripped and beheaded in order to make it impossible to recognize.\nIn the firefight was also mortally wounded the Brigadier Pietro Giua.\nAround 1875 he reappeared the practice of kidnapping for ransom.\nViolence and fear took possession of the countryside. These facts aroused the attention of the Italian Prime Minister Francesco Crispi, who appointed the Sardinian deputy Francesco Pais Serra, to make an inquiry \"on the economic conditions and public safety in Sardinia.\" \nThe investigation began to make clear the links between banditry and social situation, but public opinion, deeply disturbed by the situation, negatively influenced the actions of the government.\nSo, while you spread the idea, supported by the positivist school of anthropologists such as Alfredo Niceforo, who Barbagia banditry was rooted not only endemic, but even genetic, i.e. race, the government decided to send army units to Nuoro to eradicate the problem.\nThe enterprise is told in the book of the officer Giulio Bechi,\"Caccia Grossa\", which aroused bitter controversy (as well as interpretations rather hasty).\n\nAt the end of the nineteenth century there were in Sardinia and 197 fugitives were killed 77 policemen in conflict.\nThe decade 1890–1899 can be considered the period of far more serious in the history of banditry in Sardinia. For the number of murders, the number and the unique personality of the fugitives - bandits, for the true carnage of human life (bandits, their victims, police), and the frequency of conflicts which led, especially in Barbagia, a situation not dissimilar to that of war, the decade ended with the intervention of the army stands tragically from any other period in the history of Sardinia until today.\nA noncomprehensive list of fugitives-bandits, many of which in their turn gang-leaders, makes it clear, but certainly not justify the proposal put forward in 1896 by the captain Vincenzo Mauro, to order the immediate arrest of all the joint of the fugitives.\nAs can be seen from the report of the joint membership, the bandits came almost all from Nuoro, from a limited number of countries Barbagia and some of the country and of the pastoral area of Ogliastra and the province of Sassari.\nThey were:\nGiuseppe Pintore; Pietro Sanna; Giovanni Satta Saba; Giovanni Maria Astara; Giovanni Marongiu; Domenico Ruiu; Raffaele Gusai; Giovanni Congiu; Giuseppe Sanna Columbu; Antonio Porcu; Antonio Piroi; Antonio Farina; Elias and Giacomo Sanna Serra of Nuoro. \nGiuseppe Lovicu; Francesco Rubano; Antonio Soro; Pietro Sini; Pietro Sotgiu of Orgosolo.\nGiovanni Mula; Salvatore Pau (accused of 16 murders); Antonio Congiu; Antonio Mulas; Giovanni Corbeddu Salis; Michele Tupponi of Oliena.\nAntonio Manconi; Giuseppe Noli Coi; Francesco Reseu; Giuseppe Budroni of Orani.\nDionigi Mariani; Giovanni Moni; Giuseppe Goddi; Antonio Fenu of Orune.\nGiovanni Falconi; the brothers Malucco; Giovanni Piras; Salvatorangelo Catte of Fonni.\nPietro Mameli; Simone Loddo; Gabriele Murgiolu of Olzai.\nCiccio De Rosas; Mario Angius; Sebastiano Chessa of Usini.\nTommaso Virdis and Giovanni Pinna of Oniferi.\nGiovanni Lussu and Giovanni Mulas of Orosei.\nPaolo Solinas and Bernardino Pirisi of Sarule.\nAngelo Mulargia and Giovanni Maria Bomboi of Siniscola.\nDiego Doneddu of Bitti; Quirico Vargiu of Buddusò; Giuseppe Salis of Burgos; Vincenzo Fancellu known \"Berrina\" of Dorgali; Salvatore Carta of Orotelli; Antonio Fenu of Pattada; Giovanni Maria Nuvoli of Florinas; Antonio Sanna Deriu of Torralba; Francesco Campesi of Tula; Giovanni Podda of Urzulei; Salvatore Dettori of Ottana; Giovanni Antonio Mulas of Osidda.\nThe dramatic decade 1890–1899 was characterized by three aspects:\nTo give an exact idea of the gravity of the situation it is useful to mention some of the more stirring events.\nIn 1891, they were kidnapped and released after payment of ransom, the engineers Lombroso and Marignani; authors of the kidnapping were Giuseppe and Pietro Moni from Orune, the fugitive brothers Giovanni and other relatives; Always in 1891 the bandit Ciccio De Rosas of Usini killed on the same day two men and two women, one of them pregnant forwarded; in 1892 were seized the two French timber merchants Pral and Paty; in 1894 began the tragic bandit career of Giuseppe Lovicu, accused of 12 murders, 4 attempted murders and countless robberies, thefts, and damages; on January 15, 1895, a band of eleven outlaws attacking two carabinieri in the road that leads from the station to the village of Oniferi, intended to rob the payroll of the carabinieri Lieutenancy, and killed the carabiniere Antonio Ferrari; in August 1895 was carried out a robbery at the Oniferi bus: the gang is being chased by the carabinieri departments, army and \"barracelli\", who set fire to the forest to bring into the open the bandits; all escape from the encirclement, exception of one, who was killed, but before, killing the captain of \"barracelli\" Louis Pirisi, the carabiniere Mameli and seriously injures the corporal Basilo Porcu and the lance corporal Pietro Sini (which will then be killed in shootout with Serra Sanna gang); in 1898 is killed the famous Corbeddu: near the body, the rifle of Major Spada, the commander of the Carabinieri Division of Sassari the first time that Corbeddu had attacked and robbed, leaving him half-naked in the street; 1892–1898, in seven years, were killed by bandits a Carabinieri lieutenant, a sergeant, 4 sergeants and 14 Carabinieri.\nIn July 1899, the captain Petella, to create a vacuum around the fugitives, is organizing what may be considered the most grandiose police operation in the history of Italy, arrested 500 people in a single night in the district Nuoro-Ozieri; the process will be celebrated with 682 defendants burdened with 237 titles imputation. in the same month of July 1899, in the place \"Morgogliai\", between Oliena and Orgosolo, 50 Carabinieri and an entire battalion of infantry engages in a real battle against the gangs of Serra Sanna, Virdis, Pau and Lovicu: all the bandits are killed to except Lovicu that will later killed in a shootout with the Carabinieri in Oliena in 1901.\nThe \"conflict of Morgogliai\" and killing of fugitive fed the illusion of having put an end to banditry only because they had eliminated the most dangerous gangs.\n\nBut the roots of the phenomenon were not even touched by them and, after a brief lull, the bandits will draw new food, giving rise to periodic outbreaks of crime.\n\nAt the end of the century the government had sent the army, but did not prevent the annihilation of the bands that just eight years later, in 1907, unleashed the \"Disamistade\" (feud), which resulted in 20 murders in just Orgosolo.\nOn the eve of World War I, the situation is not likely to improve: in 1913 will be made 4 murders, 70 attempted murders, 21 robberies followed by murder and simple robbery 138. \nThe First World War interrupted for a short time the robbery, which resumed after the war raging and the harsh repression, the confinement of police and executions of fascism can not contain.\nAfter the death of Samuele Stochino, Fascism proclaims that banditry was extirpated.\nIt is extirpated from the newspapers of propaganda, but not from the confidential reports of the Fascists Prefects and the Questors.\nThe fugitives multiply: Flores, Pietro Liandru, Ganga, Corsi, Floris, Cheri, Puddu of Sarule, Antonio Pintori, Giovanni Chironi said \"Praticheddu\", Modolo of Orani, are the most formidable that appear in the quarterly reports of the Prefects. \nFrom a statistic of the Police of Nuoro is noted that in the four years from 1932 to 1935, only in the province of Nuoro, were committed 49 murders, 181 robberies, two kidnappings; figures probably below the true because in another document signed by the Superintendent Pumo recording 10 murders, 59 robberies and a kidnapping only in the first eight months of 1935.\n\nAfter the doldrums of World War II banditry explodes again with appalling violence. \nIn August 1949, in Villagrande Strisaili, and in September 1950, nine kilometers from Nuoro, were carried out two robberies, during which eight Carabinieri were killed and one blinded.\nJanuary 15, 1950 were killed the father and son Arangino, a few kilometers from Tonara.\nIn 1950, only in Orgosolo, were committed 13 murders.\nIn 1952, on the way to Ozieri a robbery that took place can be considered the most sensational of the century: on the very day in which they celebrated the Anniversary of the Carabinieri, a dozen gunmen stopped and robbed 240 people for blocking two hours three courier and more than ten cars and fleeing with the loot undisturbed.\nA few months later, four kilometers from Nuoro, was killed on a Roman merchant Patalacci who had not stop to order of bandits. \nOn 6 November 1953 on the highway Orosei-Dorgali five masked bandits kidnapped 20 people, loaded on two trucks and transported for approximately 20 kilometers, passing through the outskirts of Dorgali, big center in the province of Nuoro.\nIt released nineteen and held prisoner the engineer Capra. The episode culminated with the death of the victim.\nThe seizure Capra aroused emotion and clamor throughout Italy.\nOn April 30, 1954, at 12 km from Nuoro, in the same area where he was killed Patalacci, which is carried out a robbery of romance.\nAround noon, four bandits kidnap the debt collector Putzolu that passed with two of his employees.\nThe Putzolu had already been seized under the same conditions, roughly in the same place, ten months before.\nThe bandits had imposed Putzolu to send the driver in Nuoro to bring the ransom money;\ninstead the driver had warned the Carabinieri that they had not had time to catch the robbers, but had arrived in time to save the life of the hostage.\nTen months later the same bandits stopped again Putzolu. \nThe bandits threatened to kill the hostage if the driver does not return within an hour at most. \nThe driver this time does not inform the Carabinieri and returns the sum; the bandits leave the Putzolu free and unharmed. \nFrom 1955 to 1965 followed by another decade of stagnation and then suddenly a new upsurge shakes and bloody Sardinian countries, with a frightening frequency of kidnappings and armed conflicts, in which 23 people were killed, including 5 agents of Public Security.\nIt can also be a random coincidence, but the fact is that the overwhelming upsurge of banditry of the years 1966-1969, beginning 4–5 years after the law n. 588 on the \"Piano di Rinascita\" (Plan of Rebirth), in the years when it begins to appear clearly the ineffectiveness of this latter.\nThe law is of June 1962. \n\nIn 1966, the banditry explodes with between 81 murders and attempted murders, 67 robberies, 19 attempted robberies, 55 extortions, 11 kidnappings.\nOn August 12, 1966 was seized in the territory of Orgosolo, a 14-year-old boy, Giuseppino Vedele, who was held captive for 14 days in the hollow of a large tree.\nIn 1967, four kidnappings were carried out in the month of August.\nIn three years (1966–1968) were carried out 33 kidnappings for ransom, exactly 11 every year, the highest number ever in the history of Sardinian banditry and never achieved in any country in the world.\nIn August 1972, in Lanusei, six bandits enter in the house of the doctor Vincenzo Loddo. The first to notice the bandits is his wife who gets scared and starts to scream.\nThe bandits lose his head and start shooting.\nAre killed in the shootout, the doctor, his brother, his wife, a nephew and one of the bandits.\nThe tragic fact is remembered as \"the massacre of Lanusei\".\nIn July 1979, on the beach of \"Sa rena bianca\" (\"The white sand\") in San Pantaleo (Olbia) are kidnapped Luigia and Cristina Cinque, mother and daughter, from Milan; will be held hostage for 80 days before being released in Nuoro after payment of a ransom of 550 million lire.\nOn 19 August 1979, he was kidnapped in Umbria (the first kidnapping was made outside of Sardinia), Guido Freddi, who was then 13 years old. It brought in a niche carved out between the bushes, covered with a tarp. He was released after 28 days in a parking lot of the Autostrada del Sole, near Magliano Sabina.\n\nOn 27 August of that same year, in Tempio, are kidnapped the two most famous victims of kidnapping in Sardinia: the singer-songwriter Fabrizio De André and his girlfriend and future wife Dori Ghezzi.\nAre kept for 107 days chained inside a tent in the Monte Lerno, in Pattada.\nAre released near Benetutti after paying ransom of 550 million lire.\nThe fact inspire you to Fabrizio De André the song \"Hotel Supramonte\".\nAlways caused a sensation in 1979 kidnapping of the two brothers Giorgio and Marina Casana, from Turin, picked up on the beach by a group of 15 offenders on August 22 and released on October 21, after payment of a ransom.\nIn November 1983, he was kidnapped in Nuoro the pharmacist Gina Manconi. Would never return home.\nOn 17 January 1985, an unprecedented fact happens in the panorama of kidnappings in Sardinia: Tonino Caggiari is kidnapped, a small business owner of Oliena.\nFor his release mobilize not only to significant law enforcement agencies (Police, Carabinieri, Guardia di Finanza), but also a substantial group of citizens, villagers of Caggiari, mostly shepherds, who wanted to collaborate with the police.\nThere was a tremendous firefight in the territory of \"Osposidda\" between Oliena and Orgosolo, where four fugitives were killed Giovanni Corraine, Giuseppe Mesina, Nicolò Floris from Orgosolo and Salvatore Fais said \"Speedy Gonzales\", from Santulussurgiu, and the cop Vincenzo Marongiu of Mogoro. This shootout will go down in history as \"The Battle of Osposidda\".\nOn October 20, 1990, he was seized entrepreneur Giovanni Murgia of Dolianova. It's kept hidden for three months in a hole dug in a slope.\nHe was released the following year in the countryside of Telti after paying a ransom of 600 million lire.\nThe 15 January 1992 to Pantogia near Porto Rotondo, is kidnapped the little Farouk Kassam, son of Fateh Kassam a French-born Egyptian, owner of a hotel. The kidnappers carry the baby in the Supramonte, and moving from one place to another always keeping it hidden in caves carved into the rock reinforced with stone walls and covered with earth. To convince parents to pay the ransom, they cut a piece of an ear. The story of the little Farouk moved all Italy.\nThe 10 July of that same year, was found in good health by the police near a dry stone wall in the place \"Iriài\", between Orgosolo and Dorgali.\nYou'll find out later (between endless arguments) that Farouk Kassam was released through the mediation of Graziano Mesina.\nIn December 1994 he was kidnapped at the intersection of Borore, the contractor Vinci.\nIs held for almost a year before being released in October, after payment of a ransom of 4,000,000,000 lire.\nIn May 1995 he was kidnapped at Abbasanta, Vanna Licheri that after 4 months of seizure falls ill and dies.\nOn 17 June 1997, in Manerbio, in the province of Brescia (another kidnapping made in Peninsula) is kidnapped the industrial entrepreneur Giuseppe Soffiantini.\nHe was locked up in various hideouts in Calvana and the Prato mountains, where he was held in inhumane conditions for 237 days. It is one of the longest and most particular kidnappings occurred in Italy, and which fortunately was successful by virtue of the payment of a ransom of well 5,000,000,000 lire.\nDuring two different firefights during the kidnapping, were killed the fugitive Mario Moro from Ovodda and the police inspector of NOCS, Samuele Donatoni.\n\nIn 1997, he was kidnapped in Tortolì, Silvia Melis, daughter of engineer Tito Melis; is found in good condition on the road Nuoro-Orgosolo.\nOn 28 May 2007 he was released the entrepreneur of Bonorva, Giovanni Battista Pinna said \"Titti\". Even his father, had earlier threatened kidnapping, while a relative of his, who was also kidnapped never returned home.\nWith laws that block the payment of ransom, the arrest of the fugitives and the best control of the territory, has drastically reduced the phenomenon of kidnapping.\nHowever, the crime has not disappeared, even from \"rural\" has evolved and has become \"urban\". The most common forms of crime of the 2000s are: the assault on transport vehicles and at ATMs with a lot of bulldozers and drug trafficking.\n\nIn the years 1966–1969, in the face of appalling frequency of kidnappings there were those who argued that this was to be considered as a new fact of Sardinian banditry, who was to give the impression of being in front of a new crime, the type of \"gangster\" and then to causes other than those of the past, no longer connected with the structure and conditions of the countryside of the island.\nAfter the seizure of the little Ghilardi and awesome revenge killings or followed a failed kidnapping attempt, the businessmen Ghitti in Ottana and missing a few kilometers from Cagliari, some publicists claimed, with polemical vigor, that the explanations of the phenomenon no longer had no current value. Those explanations, he wrote, were perhaps valid and useful to understand banditry \"romantic\" of the past, but the current and completely new, different and alien to social and economic motives. \nIt is worth mentioning that even some prefects of the Fascist regime stressed several times that at the root of crime in rural Sardinia were the economic and social conditions of the inland areas; telegafico in a brief report sent to the Italian Ministry of the Interior, July 14, 1933, by the Prefect of Nuoro Chiaromonte was written verbatim: \n\"... Means radicals can not recognize that measures of social and economic development of long-range, according to various reports contained in my reports, but in the meantime it is essential to fairly distribute public works next winter season, giving preference those character sanitary et et postponing school buildings beautification works.\"\nThe thesis of the \"new course\" of Sardinian banditry is based on the claim that in order to characterize different from the banditry of the past, \"traditional\", are essentially three aspects:\nThat would deny the nature of \"rural\" or \"sheep-farming\" of the phenomenon.\nIt is true that the three aspects which underpin the thesis of the \"new course\" of banditry have characterized the criminal manifestations seriously after years of the \"Piano di Rinascita\" (Plan of Rebirth);\nis not true is that they are \"new\" aspects of banditry island.\nQuite the contrary is true: the bandits in the past, the nineteenth century and the first decades of the twentieth century, they committed their crimes with ruthlessness inconceivable; not only kidnapped, but they kidnapped and then murdered boys and girls; few exceptions, acted for profit and not spare traders, businessmen and wealthy people living in the city.\n\nThe real \"new course\" of crime in Sardinia has since the mid-1960s with the collusion with subversive and politicians movements and the reinvestment of the ransom money in other criminal activities such as drug trafficking.\n\nThe season of politics subversion, active in Italy since the early postwar years, it expanded in Sardinia in the mid-sixties and ended in the eighties, the late lead also in the peninsula.\nThe contacts between the local bandits and militants of the extreme left and subversive organizations active in the \"red terrorism\", such as the Brigate Rosse and Nuclei Armati Proletari, were partly helped by the detention of militant left-wing extremists in maximum security prisons on the island, in a manner similar to how Sicilian Mafia members imprisoned in northern Italy began colluding with and influencing local Northern Italian criminal groups near their prisons, giving birth of the Mala del Brenta.\n\nThe most famous terrorist movements and paramilitary forces, who were born on the island, were \" Barbagia Rossa\", \"Moviment Armato Sardo\" and \"Comitato di Solidarietà con il Proletariato Prigioniero Sardo Deportato\" (Committee of Solidarity with the Sardinian Deported Proletariat Prisoner), in the majority of communist and independentist ideology, within a decade claimed several attacks and kidnappings.\nAmong the main supporters of the separatist and subversive because there was the publisher Giangiacomo Feltrinelli, who repeatedly tried to make contact with various organizations with the intention of making independent Sardinia (with the help of pro-independence) and form a communist government (with the help of the subversive left) on the model approached by Fidel Castro in Cuba.\nTaking into consideration the election of Graziano Mesina, the most notorious bandit of the crime of Sardinia, as the head of the rebel troops, an idea that was actually optioned by both subversive left as shown by the various contacts that have taken place by the secret services.\nIn August 2004, we have news of a failed bomb attack, in Porto Rotondo, against the Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, during the visit of British Prime Minister Tony Blair in Sardinia.\nThis fact led to the arrest of 10 members of a separatist movement, called \"Organizzazione Indipendentista Rivoluzionaria\" (Independence Revolutionary Organization) and some elements belonging to the \"Nuclei Proletari per il Comunismo.\"\n\nSardinians in the late nineteenth century began to hatch feelings of revenge and rebellion against authority.\nIt is these feelings created the idealization of the figure of the bandit, seen not as a criminal, but as a hero and a liberator. After all, they called themselves fighters.\nThe wrongs which the bandit revenge, they were considered a defense against bullying and ill-treatments revenge was considered justice if not a duty.\nAnd here was formed in the figure of the people bandit-hero.\nThe economist Giorgio Todde told of a bandit who jumped into a river to save a carabiniere who had fallen while chasing him; this contributed to the growing admiration for these characters.\nEven Antonio Gramsci said he had been fascinated when he was young by the figure of Giovanni Tolu, the bandit of Florinas made famous by writer and journalist Enrico Costa from Sassari and from that of Francesco De Rosas.\nSebastiano Satta felt admiration for the bandits \"beautiful, fierce and brave.\"\nThe figure of the outlaw was also shot on the intellectuals.\nThe Congressman Francesco Pais Serra wrote in his report:\nEven today, the legendary \"Sardinian bandit, perhaps more fabulous than true, attracts a mixture of romantic strength, brutal revenge and set of chivalric generosity naive minds of the people and a halo of sympathy naive, but tenacious, surrounds the head of him who, alone and weak, it is believed not fight against the right of society, but the claim against violence and bullying staff and authority: he knows how to use the cunning against the force, draw fierce and exemplary vengeance of whoever opposes, but protects those who, like him weak, protects and defends it.\"\nAnd it was so in fact, for the poor people who suffered the abuses of those who held the wealth and power.\nGirolamo Sotgiu in his \"History of Sardinia after the Unification\", it calls into question \"a small group of owners, that with a basic but efficient system of blackmail imposed his will to the community\". It was they, in fact, that the great majority of the population, peasants and shepherds could have land and labor, and so it was clear they wanted to obey if you physically get the chance to live.\"\nThese characters also had control of the City Council and then at their command you could not subtract.\nIn a nutshell, the bandit was the poor man who rebelled against the rich.\nAmong the bandits \"romantic\" include:\nBastiano Addis Tansu, said \"Il Muto di Gallura\", made famous by the writer Enrico Costa; Giovanni Tolu of Florinas; Giovanni Corbeddu Salis of Oliena, called \"The Kingof the bush\"; the Serra Sanna brothers, especially his sister Mariantonia, called \"Sa reina\" (The queen) in the nineteenth century.\nSamuele Stochino of Arzana; Pasquale Tandeddu of Orgosolo; Giuseppino Càmpana said \"Rubinu\", of Orune; Graziano Mesina said \"Gratzianeddu\", of Orgosolo; Matteo Boe, \"the cold-eyed bandit\" of Lula, Attilio Cubeddu of Arzana in the \"Anonima sarda\" and Giovanni Farina of Tempio in the twentieth century.\nThe facts prove incontrovertibly that in reality, banditry \"romantic\" has never existed in Sardinia; it's just happened that some writers and poets have described the key romantic and they did rise to false emblem of individual cases of banditry bandits who began their career with a tragic crime of honor or a Vendetta for wrongs but that almost all, they ended up robbing and killing for profit.\nWho says that the brutality is one of the distinguishing factors of the \"new course\", unaware apparently some chilling episodes of the past that is worth remembering.\nIn 1899, the two bandits of Orune, Giovanni Moni and Giuseppe Goddi, killed a farmer of Benetutti in the presence of his wife and child; the disemboweled, quartered it, the detached head that they laid on a dry stone wall and the blood that was dripping with the curled mustache.\nThe bandit Ciccio De Rosas of Usini, killed on the same day November 4, 1891, the doctor Giuseppe Michele Melis of Usini, Antonio Secchi and two women, Maria Antoinetta Sotgia and Clotilde Coco, one of which was in an advanced state of pregnancy. \nOn 20 February 1897 the Italian Crown Prosecutor in Nuoro, Nonis, in a public speech were somehow figure of the fugitive that, reads, \"«lives of crops, robberies and thefts, which quenches the thirst of human blood capriciously, which ambushes macchiasenza to expose themselves, which does not shy away from the extreme cowardice to reunite with many others like him troublemakers, to give the agent the death of the police...»\"\nAnother Italian Crown Prosecutor in Nuoro, Marcialis, so called bandits in his inaugural speech of the judicial year 1900 \n\"«This hyenas always thirsty for human blood, this monsters, which should cancel the memory ...»\"\nThe truth is that the brutality has always characterized the banditry in Sardinia:\nOn January 3, 1937 in the territory of Benetutti, Giovanni Pala of Orune, with an ax smashed the skull of the young Andrea Bellina, 17 years old, as she slept; Samuele Stochino in 1928, the famous bandit of Arzana, killed with a shot at point-blank Assunta Nieddu, a 10-year-old girl.\nIn 1960 in Orgosolo, the kidnapped Pietrino Crasta was killed by his captors with a boulder that crushed his head;\nin the New Year's Eve of 1966, to Ollolai, the fugitive Antonio Casula and his associates massacred the spouses Podda, sixties, and their grandson Michele of 11 years.\nThe same applies with regard to the kidnapping of strangers to the sheep-farming world: in January 7, 1925 was seized a girl of 10 years, Wanda Serra, daughter of the mayor of Aidomaggiore, for which it was requested a ransom of 40,000 pounds, then reduced to 30,000.\nThe child was found dead; authors were identified in the parish of Aidomaggiore, don Spanu, and Peppa Ziulu.\nJuly 6, 1933 were kidnapped the mayor of Bono, Pietro Molotzu, his wife, his daughter Maria, the teacher Pietrina Marongiu and the notary Ena; the kidnappers left all free except for the little Maria, 7 years old, for which demanded a ransom of 250,000 lire silver coins. The girl skeleton was found after more than a year.\nThe authors discovered and arrested, they were bandits Congiu of Bottidda, Chironi of Nuoro and the Pintore brothers.\nWith regard to the fury of revenge, the German traveler Joseph Fuos in a letter of 1773 wrote: \n\"«If a Sardinian vowed to another deadly hatred, there is no way to escape the fulfillment of this curse, that or go out of the country, or to slay the opponent. It is said, therefore, a Sardinian who followed him to his enemy to Naples, where he took refuge: it seems like there was reconciled with him, and led him to the tavern and the brothel, and stabbed him in the act here venereum, to kill, as he said, not only his body, but also eternally damn his soul. Now he tells this idea even more, but who attributed it to a Sardinian, has basically met the favorite passion of the people, and knew that their thirst for vengeance goes to the most extreme limits to which a man can get her.\" \n\"So it is not uncommon for a Sardinian is not content to kill his enemy, but he also abuses his body with bites, cuts and dismemberment, in the most compassionate way, that just recently took place in Sassari and there two heinous examples [...].\" \n\"How different is also the way of thinking of men! If I say to a Sardinian in my homeland a murderer must die without hope grace at the hands of justice, it does the sign of the cross and says that I was born in a cruel people. But if this same Sardinian killed half a dozen men because of miserable disputes, and sworn death to another half dozen (and similar cases in this country if it finds more than one) he will not find anything cruel. »\" \n\nAssuming that banditry was somehow connected to a feudal society and an economy based on archaic farming yet contemplated the ritual of transhumance, and grazing (considered as causes of criminal activity), they tried to make changes the social-economic structure, impact of Sardinia by different laws.\nIn the nineteenth century it was introduced the \"Edict of Chiudende\", which included the enclosure of land uncultivated pasture, to benefit the development of an agricultural economy and sedentary activities. It was introduced private property.\nIn 1887 a severe economic crisis linked to the customs bloc with the France (main importer of cattle from the island) struck the Sardinia. This increased the deep latent discontent in the country, which resulted in the bloody events that shook the Barbagia in the last decade of the nineteenth century.\nIn the early twentieth century were introduced industries for the production of cheese; the shepherd was transformed from master-merchant in keeper-milker. Thus was born the figure of the \"shepherd servant\".\nIn the beginning of the sixties was passed the Law on the \"Piano di Rinascita\" (\"Plan of Rebirth\"), which included the installation of factories in order to modernize an agricultural-pastoral economy to an industrial society.\nAlthough most of the laws for the betterment of the economy has not obtained the expected success and banditry has not eradicated, it is good to mention that in some areas where it was a process of transformation, we saw almost disappear or this phenomenon. \nThis is the case of Gallura, that from the seventeenth century to the first half of the nineteenth century was the area most devastated by criminal incidents; after changing from nomadic to sedentary pastoral guidance, the Gallura banditry underwent an inflection up, almost to disappear altogether.\nIgnazio Pirastu, in his report also cites the example of the village of Oliena, according to a study done by Dr. Panico. \nThe study has shown that the processes of rapid change of the regime and crop landowner paid equally rapid extinction of the phenomenon.\nIn the conclusions of the investigation it is said: \"The argument that an intensive agrarian transformation and the resulting improved economic conditions, has paid Oliena a regression of the sheep-farming and a drop in crime is fully proven by the investigation conducted on the spot. The agrarian transformation in Oliena occurred in two periods: from 1934 to 1939 and 1945 to 1960.\nConsequently, it was noted a steady reduction of the sheep-farming: 40,000 sheep from the 1900 ran to 15,000 in 1951 and 10,000 in 1955.\nIn this period we had in Oliena an overall decrease of the crimes, both against the person and against property. \nThe thesis is then confirmed by a reverse phenomenon, occurring from 1960 to 1969. \nIn this period it is in fact registered in Oliena an increase in crimes against the person and against property than in previous decades. This increase corresponds to a recovery of the sheep-farming. In fact, after the 1956 is a gradual increase in sheep and goats Oliena that, from 10,000 in 1955, rising to 21,000 in 1964 and, further, to 24.589 at the end of 1967.\" \nAnother test is made by the radical change in behavior of the colonies of the shepherds of Barbagia that have moved to other Italy regions and who have distinguished themselves, in general, hard work and honesty.\n\n\nJoseph Fuos in \"Viaggiatori italiani e stranieri in Sardegna\" di Francesco Casula, pagine 46-51, Alfa Editrice, Quartu Sant'Elena, 2015"}
{"id": "16079587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16079587", "title": "Securities Commission of New Zealand", "text": "Securities Commission of New Zealand\n\nThe Securities Commission was an independent Crown entity of the government of New Zealand and the main regulator of investments. It was replaced on 1 May 2011 by the Financial Markets Authority.\n\nIt was responsible for enforcement, monitoring and market oversight of the securities markets, authorising participants and promoting public understanding of investments. This included authorising the New Zealand Stock Exchange with which it ran a co-regulatory model.\n\nOn 27 April 2010 the New Zealand minister for commerce Simon Power announced that Securities Commission would be replaced by a new integrated financial regulator the Financial Markets Authority.\n\nThe Commission was first established under the Securities Act 1978 which determines its powers and functions.\n\nThe commissions role was modified and extended by a number of additional pieces of legislation. These include the Securities Markets Act 1988, the Investment Advisers (Disclosure) Act 1996, the Securities Regulations 1983, the Securities Act (Contributory Mortgage) Regulations 1988, and the Securities (Fees) Regulations 1998.\n\nThe Financial Advisers Act 2008 gave the Securities Commission new responsibilities to register and set minimum standards for financial advisers. There was some concern that the commission did not have the resources to effectively carry out its responsibilities and that this additional responsibility would make the situation worse.\n\nThe agency was chaired by Jane Diplock from 2001 until it was disbanded in 2011 and faced criticism for its handling of the collapse of a large number of finance companies. Jane Diplock was also the chairperson of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) during her time as chairperson of the Securities Commission.\n\nThe Securities Commission undertook the following roles: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5431482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5431482", "title": "Signing agent", "text": "Signing agent\n\nIn American law, a signing agent or courtesy signer is an agent whose function is to obtain a formal signature of an appearer to a document. In common parlance, most jurisdictions require the appearer to sign before a notary public. From this, the practice of a notary public designating themselves as a signing agent has arisen. There are notaries public who specialize in the notarization of real estate transfer and loan document signings. Signing agents often have certification and training through private organizations, but is not a requirement in law, although it may be a requirement of the lender in the oversight of real estate transaction document signatures.\n\nAlso referred to as a \"notary signing agent\" or a \"loan signing agent\", a signing agent should not be confused with a mortgage loan closer or closing agent. Signing agents are notaries public, who usually have experience and/or training concerning the proper execution of loan documents and are hired by mortgage companies, escrow companies, title companies, and signing services to identify loan documents, obtain the necessary signatures, and in some cases deliver the documents to the borrower. A signing agent is an impartial party to the transaction, and must adhere to the notary laws of their state or jurisdiction. In some states of the United States where signing agents are allowed, signing agents may identify documents and can point out terms to the loan transaction. However, signing agents are prohibited from giving legal advice or in any way explaining or interpreting the meaning of any terms or documents, and they are not permitted to prepare the documents, or alter them in any way. Any advice, explanation, or opinion can be considered unauthorized practice of law, except in the State of Louisiana, which is governed by Civil Law; in Louisiana, civil law notaries public have broad powers, and can actually prepare documents and discuss them with the signers.\n\nThe American Signing Agents Association Inc defines the signing agent as, \"A signing agent is a trusted professional, usually a state commissioned notary public, that performs the closing ceremony for real estate transactions, mortgage loan transactions, legal process transactions and other similar transactions where an independent third part is requested. A signing agent should insure that they are disinterested in the transaction and have a mutual obligation to all parties to remain objective, neutral to any position, insure awareness of document contents by affiant and make a reasonable effort to prevent fraud and protect affiants from coercion.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27108790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27108790", "title": "TV Everywhere", "text": "TV Everywhere\n\nTV Everywhere (also known as authenticated streaming or authenticated video on-demand) refers to a business model wherein access to streaming video content from a television channel requires users to \"authenticate\" themselves as current subscribers to the channel, via an account provided by their participating pay television provider, in order to access the content.\n\nUnder the model, broadcasters offer their customers the ability to access content from their channels through internet-based services and mobile apps—either live or on-demand, as part of their subscription to the service. Time Warner Cable first proposed the concept in 2009; in 2010, many television providers and networks began to roll out TV Everywhere services for their subscribers, including major networks such as TBS and TNT (whose owner was an early supporter of the concept), ESPN, and HBO among others. Broadcast television networks have also adopted TV Everywhere restrictions for their online content.\n\nTelevision providers and broadcasters have touted the advantages of being able to access content across multiple platforms, including on the internet, and on mobile devices (such as smartphones and tablets) as part of their existing television subscription. The TV Everywhere concept has received criticism for being difficult for end-users to set up, while media activists have criticized the concept for being a paywall that extends the existing oligarchy of the subscription television industry to the internet, and considering it to be collusion against cord cutters—those who drop cable and satellite entirely in favor of accessing content via terrestrial television, the internet, and subscription video on demand (SVOD) services.\n\nTV Everywhere services were developed in an attempt to compete with the market trend of cord cutting, where consumers drop traditional pay television subscriptions in favor of accessing TV content exclusively through over-the-air television and/or online on-demand services, including Hulu, Netflix, YouTube, and other sources. Authenticated streaming and video on-demand services allow traditional television providers to directly compete with these competitors, and add value to existing television subscriptions in an effort to retain subscribers.\n\nIn particular, broadcasters and providers have emphasized the use of TV Everywhere services to allow multi-platform access to their content, on devices such as personal computers, smartphones, tablets, digital media players, and video game consoles.\n\nESPN first introduced a TV Everywhere-like concept with ESPN360, a service which allowed users to stream sports programming from its networks either live or on-demand through a website. However, access to ESPN360 was restricted to the users of internet service providers who had negotiated deals with ESPN to offer the service; a model closer in nature to cable television carriage. Similar tactics were soon used by several other channels, such as NFL Network (who used the technique to restrict access to its \"Game Extra\" service for \"Thursday Night Football\") and Epix. David Preschlack, ESPN's executive vice president for affiliate sales and marketing, foresaw a future in the model, believing that access to exclusive content would soon play a greater role in competition between high-speed internet providers. However, the model was deemed a violation of the principles of net neutrality by some critics.\n\nIn 2009, Time Warner Cable announced an initiative known as \"TV Everywhere\", a set of principles which were \"designed to serve as a framework to facilitate deployment of online television content in a way that is consumer friendly, pro-competitive.\" The concept would enable users of their respective cable television services to access live and on-demand online content from channels that they subscribe to by using an account-based authentication system. TWC CEO Jeffrey Bewkes believed that the TV Everywhere principles were \"good concepts\" that are \"likely to be the general direction for all TV networks and all the distribution connections that are out there.\" That summer, both TWC and Comcast began trials of services based on the system; Turner Broadcasting was an early supporter of the system, providing access to TBS and TNT content as part of the trials. Comcast officially launched a public beta of its TV Everywhere-based portal, Xfinity Fancast, in December 2009 for all double-play television and internet customers. Afterwards, other providers began to follow suit.\n\nIn 2010, broadcasters and television providers began a wider roll-out of TV Everywhere-based services; for the 2010 Winter Olympics, NBC Sports offered live and video on-demand access to events throughout the Games that required users to authenticate for access. Also in February, HBO launched HBO Go, a video on demand service exclusive to HBO subscribers on participating providers. In September 2010, Disney would begin launching an array of TV Everywhere-based services, including WatchESPN (a successor to ESPN360 offered to ESPN television subscribers), and similar apps for Disney Channel and Disney XD.\n\nIn August 2011, Fox became the first over-the-air network to restrict on-demand access with a TV Everywhere-based system; \"next day\" on-demand episodes (either through its website or Hulu, itself a joint venture between Fox, NBC, and ABC at the time) would only be available online to users authenticating themselves as a subscriber to a cable or satellite provider, or those who subscribe to the Hulu Plus service. All other users would be subject to an 8-day delay. On September 1, 2011, fellow Fox property Big Ten Network (a college sports network dedicated to the Big Ten Conference, operated in partnership with Fox Sports) also launched a TV Everywhere service known as \"BTN2Go\".\n\nMatt Strauss, Comcast senior vice president of digital and emerging platforms, considered the 2012 Summer Olympics to be a \"watershed\" event for TV Everywhere services; NBCUniversal announced that a total of nearly 10 million authenticated devices accessed its online coverage during the Games across both the NBCOlympics.com site and NBC Olympics Live Extra app; in particular, parent company Comcast accounted for 3.3 million devices from 1.5 million users. Following the Games, the service was rebranded as NBC Sports Live Extra to serve as a general streaming app for the NBC Sports division.\n\nTV Everywhere services also began to appear in Canada in the early 2010s, with the Canadian launch of HBO Go in 2012, and the 2013 announcement of TV Everywhere services from Bell Media (beginning with Bravo Go, and also including CTV Go) and Shaw Media (beginning with Global). The majority of Canadian broadcasters are vertically integrated; both Bell and Shaw operate internet service providers and national satellite television services.\n\nIn May 2013, ABC released its Watch ABC mobile app, which allows viewers on participating providers to access live streams from participating ABC affiliates. In December 2013, ABC confirmed that it would impose a similar restriction to Fox for \"next day\" on-demand episodes beginning on January 6, 2014, with 7-day exclusivity for authenticated users and Hulu Plus subscribers. NBC unveiled its own plans for a similar TV Everywhere app to its affiliate board in April 2014.\n\nIn November 2015, after negotiations surrounding revenue sharing and infrastructural mandates (including a proposed requirement that the games only be available through the league's existing apps), Major League Baseball reached a three-year deal with Fox to allow it to offer in-market online streaming on Fox Sports Go (though streamed using MLB Advanced Media infrastructure) for the 16 teams that it holds regional rights to through the Fox Sports Networks division. In December 2015, Discovery Communications, a long hold-out on the concept, launched Discovery Go, a centralized TV Everywhere service and mobile app for Discovery Channel, TLC, as well as its array of sister networks.\n\nThe TV Everywhere concept has been met with mixed reception. Some broadcasters were initially hesitant to introduce TV Everywhere services, with concerns that they might affect advertising revenue and not be adequately counted by Nielsen ratings. Songwriters Guild of America president Rick Carnes praised the TV Everywhere concept and other recent developments for helping to provide easier, legal access to premium content online.\n\nMedia activists have criticized the concept as protecting the existing closed, regionalized oligarchy of multichannel television by tying digital content to traditional television subscriptions, thus harming fully over-the-top competitors. Public Knowledge believed that \"under the 'TV Everywhere' plan, no other program distributors would be able to emerge, and no consumers will be able to 'cut the cord' because they find what they want online. As a result, consumers will be the losers.\" A 2010 report by Free Press made similar arguments, contending that TV Everywhere was an act of collusion by the cable industry, and arguing that \"by tying programming to local cable subscriptions, while denying content to pure online TV distributors, the incumbent industry hopes to artificially reproduce the lack of competition for TV distribution to which it is accustomed, based on geographical fiefdoms and turf.\" The NCTA denied many of Free Press' arguments, stating that it was \"an effort to ensure more content than ever is distributed over the Internet at no extra charge to consumers.\"\n\nIn July 2014, BTIG analyst Richard Greenfield criticized the video on demand services offered through TV Everywhere systems for being ad-supported. In examples from FX and TNT, he noticed that ads often repeated, and that in TNT's case, its version of an episode of \"The Last Ship\" included 20 minutes of unskippable ads across 45 minutes of programming. In conclusion, he contended that viewers would rather wait for programs to appear on subscription streaming services rather than use TV Everywhere services.\n\nDespite efforts by broadcasters to educate viewers on TV Everywhere services and how to utilize them (including Fox, which produced a promotional video starring Jane Lynch as her \"Glee\" character Sue Sylvester, describing the process as being less painful than waterboarding), critics and end-users criticized the registration and authentication processes for being frustrating and difficult. In response, providers took steps to improve their user experiences; Disney reported that use of its TV Everywhere services increased after it simply changed its process to use the term \"verify\" instead of \"authenticate\", Comcast and Cablevision introduced systems that automatically verify users with their residential gateways, and Synacor (a provider of authentication platforms used by providers) added the ability for users to link their provider account to a social network login, such as Facebook or Twitter.\n\nFor the 2012 Summer Olympics and 2014 Winter Olympics, NBC worked closer with providers to help educate users, and produced customized marketing materials and video tutorials featuring Carson Daly (2012) and Ryan Seacrest (2014) to help inform users. As an incentive, NBC also allowed authenticated users to enter a sweepstakes to win a trip to London (2012) or Rio de Janeiro (2014).\n\nStill, with dissatisfaction with the system and the quality of NBC's overall coverage, there was an increase in the use of virtual private network (VPN) services to access the more comprehensive online coverage of the Games being provided by broadcasters in Canada (CTV in London, CBC in Sochi) and the United Kingdom (BBC), which only used geoblocking and did not require TV Everywhere authentication.\n\nIn April 2014, the Cable & Telecommunications Association for Marketing (CTAM) unveiled an industry-wide initiative for marketing and educating subscribers about TV Everywhere services provided by broadcasters and providers; these efforts include a stylized \"tv everywhere\" logo which the organization intends providers to use as a unified brand to denote TV Everywhere services. The logo consists of interlocking rectangles, representing multiple \"screens\" (platforms) for viewing content. The association also provided design recommendations for TV Everywhere user experiences, aiming to alleviate the confusion that had been experienced by users during the authentication process.\n\nIn a December 2013 survey of 4,205 pay television subscribers, NPD Group found that 21% of them used a TV Everywhere service at least once per month, and that 90% of them were satisfied with the experience. NPD analyst Russ Crupnick felt that \"aggressive\" use of the model was helping to counter cord cutting, which \"speaks to the level of engagement they have with programming and a comfort in using the Internet to both access and interact with that programming.\" The study also found that 3 out of 10 pay television subscribers who were also subscribed to an SVOD service used TV Everywhere services at least once a week (in comparison to 2 out of 10 for those who were not).\n\nAmid criticism of NBC's coverage, adoption of NBC's TV Everywhere services during the 2014 Winter Olympics was still significantly large: on February 21, 2014, coverage of the Men's hockey semi-final featuring the U.S. and Canada recorded the largest Live Extra audience in NBC Sports history, with 2.12 million unique viewers, augmenting the average NBCSN television audience of 3.9 million. ESPN's coverage of the 2014 FIFA World Cup drew similarly heavy online viewership: during a group stage match between the U.S. and Portugal, at least 1.7 million concurrent viewers were using WatchESPN (though, not all of the viewers were necessarily watching the game).\n\nIn December 2015, research firm GfK estimated that 53% of the United States' pay television subscribers have used a TV Everywhere service—an increase from 42% in 2012, that overall use had doubled since 2012, and 79% of those surveyed found the login process easy. However, only 25% of those surveyed were aware of the term \"TV Everywhere\" or the CTAM logo, leading to the firm believing that consumer awareness and education was still a \"critical missing piece\" in the adoption of these services.\n\nIn 2014, Comcast was criticized for its decision to arbitrarily block access to HBO Go on PlayStation and Roku devices, but still allowing its use on competing Apple TV and Xbox 360. Comcast similarly blocked access to Showtime Anytime on Roku as well. A spokesperson for the provider stated that \"with every new website, device or player we authenticate, we need to work through technical integration and customer service which takes time and resources. Moving forward, we will continue to prioritize as we partner with various players.\"\n\nDuring both the FCC's net neutrality hearings and comments regarding Comcast's then-proposed merger with Time Warner Cable (which, by contrast, allows HBO Go access on all supported devices), Roku criticized the provider for contradicting the TV Everywhere concept by discriminating against specific devices, thus prioritizing its own on-demand platform over external services. The company argued that providers could selectively favor certain platforms over others, further stating that \"a large and powerful MVPD may use this leverage in negotiations with content providers or operators of streaming platforms, ultimately favoring parties that can either afford to pay for the privilege of authentication, or have other business leverage that can be used as a counterweight to discriminatory authentication.\"\n\nOn December 15, 2014, Comcast enabled the ability to use HBO Go and Showtime Anytime on Roku devices. However, Comcast still blocked HBO Go on PlayStation consoles until December 2016.\n\nThere have been instances of users deliberately sharing their TV Everywhere login credentials, or having them sold without their owner's knowledge on the black market, in order to allow others to view programs without subscribing to the channel. Charter Communications CEO Tom Rutledge, and ESPN's executive vice president for affiliate sales and marketing Justin Connolly, have considered this practice equivalent to piracy. In December 2017, it was reported that television providers and program distributors have begun to implement measures in order to discourage this practice, including reducing the length of login session, reducing the number of concurrent streams allowed on a single account, and monitoring unusual usage patterns such as large numbers of concurrent streams on a single account—especially those originating from outside of the customer's region, or during major programs.\n"}
{"id": "10421415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10421415", "title": "Tenancy deposit scheme (England and Wales)", "text": "Tenancy deposit scheme (England and Wales)\n\nUnder the provisions of the United Kingdom Housing Act 2004 every landlord or letting agent that takes a deposit for an assured shorthold tenancy in England and Wales must protect the deposit under an authorised tenancy deposit scheme. The regulations came into effect on 6 April 2007, and were amended by the Localism Act 2011, taking effect from 6 April 2012. The Deregulation Act 2015 further amended the regulations from 26 March 2015.\n\nIt is common for landlords to take a dilapidation deposit from a tenant at the start of the tenancy. The deposit acts as a safeguard should the tenant cause any damage to the property. Some unscrupulous landlords are either very slow to return deposits at the end of the tenancy or make unfair deductions. The purpose of the regulations is to ensure good practice in this area, and try to keep disputes between landlords and tenants out of the courts by encouraging alternative dispute resolution.\n\nThe tenant pays over the deposit (commonly one month's rent) in the usual way when the tenancy agreement is signed. The landlord or letting agency has 30 days from receipt of the deposit to provide the tenant with details of the scheme that they are using (known as the prescribed information). If there is no dispute at the end of the tenancy the deposit will be returned to the two parties as agreed. If a dispute has arisen then the parties will be invited to make use of the alternative dispute resolution process that is provided free within the scheme. Should the parties opt for alternative dispute resolution they will be bound by its decision with no redress to the courts.\n\nThere are two types of protection scheme:\n\n– Custodial-based\n\n– Insurance-based\n\nThe Custodial-based scheme is provided by the Deposit Protection Tenancy. It is free to use and the landlord or letting agents can simply pay the deposit online or over the phone. The money is held in a bank account by the Deposit Protection Scheme and transferred directly to the tenant once both parties agree on the total sum of money to release. Landlords based overseas must use the custodial Deposit Protection Service scheme unless they employ a British-registered letting agent to manage the tenancy.\n\nWhen the deposit is under an insurance-based scheme, the Landlord or the letting agent will hold the deposit, but have to pay a fee to ensure the landlord will not illegally hold the deposit at the end of the tenancy. If at the end of the tenancy the landlord does not release the deposit, the insurance will pay back the tenant. This scheme is provided by deposits or the Tenancy Deposit Scheme.\n\n three companies are authorised by the UK government to run tenancy deposit schemes:\n\n\nTDS was the original tenancy deposit scheme - established in 2003 which many agents and landlords volunteered to use prior to the introduction of the legislation.\nInitially, the DPS offered only a custodial scheme while the TDS and MyDeposits offered only an insurance-backed scheme. From April 2013, the DPS also offered an insurance-backed scheme, and from April 2016, the TDS and MyDeposits both started offering a custodial scheme. Between April and September 2013, Capita also operated an insurance-backed scheme. Deposit protected by Capita was subsequently transferred to MyDeposits.\n\nIf a landlord or letting agent does not both protect a tenant’s deposit and provide the tenant with the prescribed information within 30 days then they are prevented from regaining possession of the property under a Section 21 notice under the Housing Act 1988, unless the deposit is first repaid or proceedings for a penalty against the landlord, or its agent, has been initiated and settled.\n\nIf the tenant applies to court for the deposit to be protected and it is shown the landlord is not compliant with the scheme, then the court must order the landlord to pay the tenant between one and three times the deposit amount within 14 days.\n\nNon-protection of a deposit taken before the commencement of the regulations on 6 April 2007 does not result in a penalty, but no valid Section 21 notice may be served until the deposit has been protected.\n\n\nThe defences in these cases are affected by the Localism Act 2011, which made the following changes to the law affecting deposit registration:\n\nEither a Landlord or a tenant may begin the claims process from 14 days after the end of the tenancy. The first step in beginning a claim is to obtain a so-called Statutory Declaration by accessing the Landlord or tenant's online account, and starting the process using an online form. Once a claim has begun, the dispute service in question makes contact with both parties notifying them of the dispute, and requesting any additional evidence, before the claim is referred to an alternative dispute resolution service, unless either party states that they do not wish to use the ADR service or notifies in writing that they wish to resolve the dispute in the county courts, or alternatively another dispute resolution service.\n\nThe Housing Act left open a loophole for landlords and letting agents. Although there was a penalty for not protecting the deposit or issuing prescribed information, there was no penalty for not doing so within the original 14 day limit. To close this loophole, the Localism Act 2011 extended the time limit for protecting tenancy deposits from 14 to 30 days, and this limit became absolute. Therefore, on the 31st day after the payment of the deposit money to the landlord the tenant can make an application to the court if the money has not been protected and the prescribed information given. Even if the deposit is registered or the prescribed information is given at any time after the 30-day window the tenant still has a right to make a claim. The claim will be for the return of the full sum of the deposit along with a penalty of between one and three times the sum of the deposit, to be awarded at the discretion of the Court. Tenants can also now make an application to a county court for a penalty award after the tenancy has ended.\n\nThere are a number of “no deposit” or “zero deposit” schemes in operation that are provided by insurance companies. These can offer landlords protection without having to take a deposit.\n\nBond schemes are an alternative for those unable to afford a deposit. They are commonly used as a homelessness prevention measure.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16602797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16602797", "title": "Ukrainian nationality law", "text": "Ukrainian nationality law\n\nUkrainian nationality law is the law of Ukraine which concerns citizenship. The body of law is primarily regulated by the Law of Ukraine on Citizenship of Ukraine and certain provisions within the Constitution of Ukraine. The current law was adopted by the Verkhovna Rada after the election of 26 July 1990 together with the Declaration of State Sovereignty.\n\nCitizens of Ukraine typically fall into at least one of the following categories:\n\nCitizenship of Ukraine may be acquired in any one of the following ways:\n\n\nBirth within the territory of Ukraine does not automatically confer citizenship.\n\nFrom 2005 until mid-2017 87.376 people lost their Ukrainian citizenship. 67.305 of them voluntarily renounced it, 19.738 lost it because of international agreements and 333 were involuntary deprived of their citizenship.\n\nAccording to Ukraine's nationality law, Ukrainian citizenship can be voluntarily renounced by Ukrainian citizens who have taken up permanent residence in a foreign country and who have acquired a foreign citizenship or have received confirmation that they will acquire a foreign citizenship upon successful renunciation of their Ukrainian citizenship. Citizenship can only be renounced in the presence of a Ukrainian consular official at a Ukrainian diplomatic mission and proof of the final/impending acquisition of foreign citizenship is required to do so.\n\nAutomatic loss of Ukrainian citizenship occurs in the event an adult Ukrainian citizen voluntarily acquires a foreign nationality or enters into the military or governmental service of a foreign power.\n\nUkrainian citizenship is not automatically lost in the following circumstances:\n\n\nThe decision on termination of Ukrainian citizenship must be taken by the President of Ukraine.\n\nUkrainian law currently does not recognise dual citizenship. However, there are citizens of Ukraine who hold dual citizenship. Ukrainian law states that (after gaining Ukrainian citizenship) the new Ukrainian citizen must renounce its non-Ukrainian citizenship(s) within two years. A 2009 estimate put the number of Ukrainians with more than one passport from 300,000 to a few million. Within Ukrainian boundaries Ukrainian citizens who also hold multiple citizenships are considered to be solely Ukrainian citizens.\nOn February 8, 2014, the Verkhovna Rada proposed a bill to criminalize the act of holding two citizenships.\n\nIn June 2017, Ukrainian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 116 countries and territories, ranking the Ukrainian passport 42nd in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\n"}
{"id": "51023799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51023799", "title": "Victorian Reports", "text": "Victorian Reports\n\nThe Victorian Reports (VR) are a series of law reports which report significant cases from the Supreme Court of Victoria in its first decisions and appeal decisions jurisdictions.\n\nThe reports were initially titled the Victorian Law Reports (VLR) (1875 to 1956), before adopting their present title in 1957. Earlier equivalent reports, published between 1847 and 1851, had been known as \"Williams practice cases\" and \"A'Beckett's reserved judgments\".\n\nIn 2016, Little William Bourke commenced publishing the Victorian Reports. The new portal contains both the VRs and the VLRs (1875 to date) in a searchable format.\n\n"}
{"id": "59038968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59038968", "title": "West African Court of Appeal", "text": "West African Court of Appeal\n\nThe West African Court of Appeal (WACA) was a court which served as the appellate court for the British colonies of Gold Coast, Nigeria, Gambia, and Sierra Leone.\n\nThe WACA was first established in 1867 as the appellate court for British possessions in western Africa. It was abolished in 1874, but was revived in 1928. Jurisdiction over Nigeria ended in 1954. The court became defunct with the independence of the states which it served. The court was based in Sierra Leone.\n\nDecisions of the court could be appealed with leave to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "50245895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50245895", "title": "Whistleblower protection in Australia", "text": "Whistleblower protection in Australia\n\nWhistleblower protection in Australia is offered for certain disclosures under a patchwork of laws at both federal and state level. Eligibility for protection depends on the requirements of the applicable law and the subject matter of the disclosure. Not all disclosures are protected by law in Australia. At federal level, whistleblowers face potential imprisonment for making disclosures about certain subjects, including national security and immigration matters. Transparency International Australia considers the protections for private sector whistleblowers to be generally weaker than for those in the public sector, with the main provisions found in corporations legislation that does not mandate any internal company procedures.\n\nAustralia's first whistleblower protection laws were introduced in Queensland following the recommendations of the Fitzgerald Inquiry. Laws have subsequently been introduced in other states and territories, culminating with the adoption of federal legislation with the passage of the \"Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013\".\n\nThe \"Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013\" (PID Act) introduced a new comprehensive framework for protecting Commonwealth public sector whistleblowers. The PID Act is the legislation underpinning the Commonwealth Government's Public Interest Disclosure (PID) Scheme to encourage public officials to report suspected wrongdoing in the Australian public sector. The PID Act arose in response to the report on Whistleblower Protection: a comprehensive scheme for the Commonwealth public sector by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. During the Committee's Inquiry it was recognised that whistleblowers play an important role in ensuring accountability. As a result, those making disclosures needed to be protected from retribution. \n\nThe PID Act offers protection to 'whistleblowers' from reprisal action. The protection applies to public officials who disclose suspected illegal conduct, corruption, maladministration, abuses of public trust, deception relating to scientific research, wastage of public money, unreasonable danger to health or safety, danger to the environment or abuse of position or conduct which may be grounds for disciplinary action.\n\nThe Commonwealth Ombudsman has a significant role supporting and monitoring the administration of the whistleblower scheme established under the PID Act. The Commonwealth Ombudsman is responsible for promoting awareness and understanding of the PID Act as well as providing guidance, information and resources about making, managing and responding to disclosures.\n\nThe unauthorised disclosure of Commonwealth information is a federal crime under section 70 of the \"Crimes Act 1914\" that carries a penalty of two years' imprisonment. The provision is often used to pursue whistleblowers and leaks by federal government employees and private contractors. Since the Abbott Government took office, federal agencies have referred journalists from \"The Guardian Australia\", news.com.au and \"The West Australian\" using this provision in a bid to uncover the sources for immigration stories.\n\nThe \"National Security Amendment Act (No 1) 2014 (Cth)\" amended the legislation governing ASIO to criminalise the disclosure of any information relating to a \"Special Intelligence Operation\". \"The Guardian\" noted that any act committed by ASIO could be declaration a Special Intelligence Operation with the Attorney-General's approval and removed from scrutiny.\n\nSection 42 of the \"Australian Border Force Act 2015\" (Cth) imposes a penalty of two years' imprisonment for a whistleblower who makes a disclosure in relation to an Australian immigration detention facility, although section 42(2)(c) exempts a disclosure where it is \"required or authorised by or under a law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory\".\n\nThe Conversation considered whether the section 42(2)(c) exemption would apply so that a whistleblower could rely on the protections of \"Public Interest Disclosure Act 2013\" (Cth). It found that the exemption might indeed apply, but would do so subject to several qualifications, such as:\nSection 42 of the \"Australian Border Force Act 2015\" (Cth) has been criticised by the Australian Lawyers Alliance for its potential chilling effect on whistleblowers and journalists.\n\nMedical professionals who have worked at Nauru are launching a High Court challenge against the secrecy provisions of the \"Australian Border Force Act 2015\".\n\nTransparency International Australia considers the protections for private sector whistleblowers to be weaker than for those in the public sector, with the main provisions found in corporations legislation that does not mandate any internal company procedures.\n\nPart 9.4AAA of the Corporations Act provides a degree of protection.\n\nApart from South Australia, the state and territory whistleblower protection laws only cover the public sector.\nProtection is currently offered by the \"Public Interest Disclosure Act 2010\" (Qld).\n\nProtection is currently offered by the \"Protected Disclosures Act 1994\" (NSW).\n\nProtection is currently offered by the \"Public Interest Disclosure Act 2012\" (ACT).\n\nProtection is currently offered by the \"Whistleblowers Protection Act 2001\" (Vic).\n\nProtection is currently offered by the \"Public Interest Disclosures Act 2002\" (Tas).\n\nProtection is currently offered by the \"Whistleblowers Protection Act 1993\" (SA).\n\nProtection is currently offered by the \"Public Interest Disclosure Act 2003\" (WA).\n\nProtection is currently offered by the \"Public Interest Disclosure Act 2008\" (NT).\n\n"}
