{"id": "57630013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57630013", "title": "A Rough Draft", "text": "A Rough Draft\n\nA Rough Draft () is a 2018 Russian fantasy film directed by Sergey Mokritskiy, based on the novel of the same name by Sergei Lukyanenko and starring Nikita Volkov, Yulia Peresild and Yevgeny Tsyganov. It was released in Russia on May 25, 2018.\n\nA young resident of Moscow, Kirill is a talented designer of computer games. One day, he is completely erased from the memory of everyone he knew and loved. Kirill learns that he is chosen for an important and mysterious mission. His purpose is to become a customs officer between parallel worlds, of which there are dozens in the universe.\n\nKirill learns to open the portals to a variety of parallel worlds which represent alternative versions of Moscow: a steampunk Imperial Russia, a post-apocalyptic tropic resort world, a dystopian Gulag world, and a highly advanced utopian world. Over time, Kirill learns that our Earth is a rough draft, a setting for social experiments secretly staged by the government of the utopian world, in order to avoid our mistakes. Learning this, Kirill rebels against his supervisors.\n\n\nAlthough the film was one of the most anticipated Russian releases of 2018, it received mixed to negative reviews of professional critics, receiving 32% on KinoPoisk. The majority of criticism was focused on CGI, acting and an incomprehensible storyline. Critics also panned the film for its changes from the novel. Observer of Kommersant Mikhail Trofimenkov in his review notes that by multiplying the fantasy worlds above the necessary number, the authors doomed the film to madness of entropy. Equally helpless, in the opinion of the author, is the actor's work. Critic Alexey Lytovchenko (Rossiyskaya Gazeta) wrote that in some places it is impossible to differentiate the characters and understand their motives.\n\n\"А Rough Draft\" underperformed in the box office.\n"}
{"id": "1503458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1503458", "title": "Abrahamites", "text": "Abrahamites\n\nThe Abrahamites (also Nový Bydžov-Israelites) were a sect of deists in Bohemia in the 18th century, who professed to be followers of the pre-circumcised Abraham. Believing in one God, but rejecting the Trinity, original sin, abstained from pork, and rested on Saturday, and the perpetuity of punishment for sin they contented themselves with the Ten Commandments and the Lord's Prayer. Declining to be classed either as Christians or Jews, they were excluded from the edict of toleration promulgated by Emperor Joseph II in 1781, and deported to various parts of the country, the men being drafted into frontier regiments. Some became Roman Catholics, and those who retained their \"Abrahamite\" views were not able to hand them on to the next generation.\n\nThey are not to be confused with the ninth century Syrian group also known as the Abrahamite monks, who were exterminated by the iconoclastic emperor Theophilus.\n"}
{"id": "24047252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24047252", "title": "Alvin McDonald", "text": "Alvin McDonald\n\nAlvin Frank McDonald (1873 – December 15, 1893) was an early American caver and tour guide at what became Wind Cave National Park in South Dakota, the sixth-longest cave system in the world, from 1889 to 1893.\n\nFrom the age of 16 until his death at the age of 20, McDonald discovered and mapped the first of Wind Cave using candlelight. His exploration and mapping was so extensive and thorough for the time that it was not until 1963, 70 years after his death, that major new passageways were discovered in Wind Cave.\n\nMcDonald was born in Franklin County, Iowa, and moved to Wind Cave, in the Black Hills of South Dakota, in 1890. His father, Jesse D. McDonald, had been hired in 1889 by the South Dakota Mining Company to oversee the company's \"mining claim\". It is not known if the mining company expected to find minerals of value in the cave or just planned on developing it for tourism. Regardless, the McDonald family eventually decided to attempt to make a living from the cave by developing it with enlarged passageways and wooden ladders and steps, with the hope of attracting travelers from the nearby resort town of Hot Springs.\n\nAlvin McDonald fell in love with Wind Cave, and in the few years he lived there he systematically explored about of its subterranean passageways. He kept a journal in which he described his exploration of the cave and the naming of the rooms and passageways. McDonald explored the cave entirely by candlelight and rolled out string to mark his way out of the cave. He shared his passion for the cave with visitors by becoming, in his own words, \"the chief guide\" at Wind Cave. Several of the modern tours offered by the National Park Service through the cave follow McDonald's original tour routes.\n\nMcDonald spent many hours almost every day for more than three years exploring and guiding within the cave. He was known to explore newly discovered passageways during his tours as well as on his own. Once, after being out of the cave for two days due to an illness, he wrote in his journal, \"am homesick for the cave\". He quickly realized the complex nature of the cave and wrote in his journal, \"have given up the idea of finding the end of Wind Cave\". Though he appreciated the beauty and natural features of the cave, McDonald, like others of his era, often removed samples of cave formations to sell to visitors. He would only remove samples from the cave in areas where he did not take visitors.\n\nMcDonald died of typhoid fever at the age of 20, on December 15, 1893. It is believed he contracted the disease in Chicago, where he had been promoting the cave and exhibiting samples at the Columbian Exposition the previous summer. Some people have speculated that continued exposure to the cool, damp air of the cave caused him to yield to complications from the typhoid.\n\nMcDonald was buried near the entrance to the cave he loved so dearly. A bronze plaque on a stone marks his grave, which is located on a hill above the natural entrance to Wind Cave, north of the park's visitor center. Photographs of Alvin McDonald, mementos, and his original journal are on display in the lower exhibit room of the visitor center.\n\nAlvin McDonald's exploration of Wind Cave and eagerness to share it with others likely contributed to the creation and development of Wind Cave National Park, the seventh national park in the United States, in 1903.\n\nIt is assumed that there are areas of Wind Cave that McDonald explored that no one else has since visited. Occasionally pieces of McDonald's string are discovered by survey teams in Wind Cave. As recently as August 2009, McDonald's signature was discovered carved into the ceiling of a room in the cave where it had been assumed no person had ever visited. The signature was dated July 1893, making it the latest known dated signature left by Alvin McDonald in Wind Cave.\n"}
{"id": "21290934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21290934", "title": "Audition", "text": "Audition\n\nAn audition is a sample performance by an actor, singer, musician, dancer or other performer. It typically involves the performer displaying their talent through a previously memorized and rehearsed solo piece or by performing a work or piece given to the performer at the audition or shortly before. In some cases, such as with a model or acrobat, the individual may be asked to demonstrate a range of professional skills. Actors may be asked to present a monologue. Singers will perform a song in a popular music context or an aria in a Classical context. A dancer will present a routine in a specific style, such as ballet, tap dance or hip-hop, or show his or her ability to quickly learn a choreographed dance piece.\n\nThe audition is a systematic process in which industry professionals select performers, which is in some ways analogous to a job interview in the regular job market. In an audition, the employer is testing the ability of the applicant to meet the needs of the job and assess how well the individual will take directions and deal with changes. After some auditions, after the performer has demonstrated their abilities in a given performance style, the audition panel may ask a few questions that resemble those used in standard job interviews (e.g., regarding availability).\n\nAuditions are required for many reasons in the performing arts world. Often, employing companies or groups use auditions to select performers for upcoming shows or productions. An audition for a performing opportunity may be for a single performance (e.g., doing a monologue at a comedy club), for a series or season of performances (a season of a Broadway play), or for permanent employment with the performing organization (e.g., an orchestra or dance troupe). Auditions for performing opportunities may be for amateur, school, or community organizations, in which case the performers will typically not be paid. As well, auditions are used to select or screen candidates for entry to training programs (ballet school or circus school); university programs (B.Mus, M.Mus, MFA in Theater); performance-related scholarships and grants; or to be considered for representation by a talent agency or individual agent.\n\nFor actors in theater, film, and TV, the \"audition is a systematic process in which industry professionals make final casting decisions. Industry professionals may consist of casting directors, producers, directors or agency representatives\". In film and television, the audition is called a screen test, and it is filmed so that the casting director or director can see how the actor appears on screen. Auditions are advertised in major media outlets (such as newspaper or radio), industry magazines and newsletters (e.g., auditions for musicians are advertised in the American Federation of Musicians newsletter), audition websites, and through a talent/casting agencies. Some performers hire an agent, to be able to draw on the agent's connections with casting directors and performing arts companies. However, the agent will take a cut (often 10–20%) of the performer's earnings. Although an actor's talents comprise crucial criteria in the casting process, an almost equal amount of attention is given to an actor's \"type\", (a combination of personality, looks and general casting intuition) as required for a particular production.\n\nActors who are selecting an audition piece may select a monologue by a character who is close to their own age. They may wear neutral clothing that allows freedom of movement. Auditionees may avoid going over the stated time limit. By convention, some actors choose to not direct their speech to the audition panel if they are doing an on-stage audition. In some cases, the audition panel may request that the auditionee interacts with them (e.g., a director may ask the actor to speak the lines while looking directly at the director). An actor who is doing an audition may warm up before the audition, like an athlete would, although with an actor, a warm up might include vocal exercises in addition to stretching. Just as with any interview outside of the performing arts world, an auditionee may dress well. Even if the auditionee does not have expensive clothing, simple clothing may be acceptable if it is clean and of good quality. Auditionees know casting directors are also considering \"whether or not the actor will be easy to work with, that they know what they are doing and can take direction well\".\n\nAudition pieces are not always from the show the actor is being considered for; an actor wishing to be cast in \"Hamlet\" may not do a monologue from that play. Most performers do have a range of audition pieces and select something appropriate; an actor auditioning for \"Hamlet\" would have a dramatic Shakespearean monologue ready, and not perform a monologue from an Oscar Wilde comedy, or a contemporary playwright. Some auditions involve cold reading, or performing a script that the actor is not familiar with. Auditions often involve monologues or speeches, but not always. In some cases, an auditionee is asked to read a scene (with a second person reading the other character).\n\nFor most auditions, it is expected that auditionees will bring a professional 8\"x10\" photo called a \"head shot\" and a resume that indicates their acting experience and training. Actors may bring additional copies of the head shot and resume, in case there are additional members of the casting team present at the audition. The casting agent or company may \"call back\" an auditionee days, weeks, or even months after the initial audition for a second audition. At a major audition for a professional company, the time limits are strictly enforced. A musical theater performer may be given a moment to tell the piano accompanist the tempo, and state their name and audition number to the audition panel. Then, once the auditionee starts acting or singing, the clock starts running. A buzzer sounds when the time limit runs out, which may be a minute and a half, two minutes, or three minutes, depending on the company. At this point, the auditionee is expected to stop and leave to free up the stage for the next auditionee.\n\nRight before the audition, the casting director may give new instructions that were not in the advertisement; for example, due to time constraints, the time limit for the monologues might be cut in half, or the vocal selections might be cut. Actors know that it is important that they follow these last-minute instructions, and not be \"thrown off balance\" by these changes. At an audition, a director may ask for changes in the delivery of the lines or in other aspects of the performance. The goal may be to see if the auditionee is versatile or because the director disagrees with the initial approach used by the auditionee. In either case, the behavior of the auditionee is important; if the auditionee is cooperative in making the changes, it shows that he or she will be easy to work with. If a script is provided beforehand, actors often try to memorize as much as possible, because this shows that they have prepared and it allows them to look up from the script and show their facial expressions more.\n\nFilm auditions are different from theatre auditions. For film auditions, actors and actresses are given \"sides\" which are often a few pages of the script with the roles that they are auditioning for. These sides are often given to the actors 1–3 days before the audition.\n\nIn 2015, the widespread availability of relatively inexpensive video cameras has made video recordings of auditions feasible. To find their talent, casting directors are able to request video auditions from actors and actresses from a different state or country.\n\nIn some styles of music, such as jazz-oriented stage bands, instrumentalists may be asked to sight read printed music at various levels of difficulty. In jazz groups, auditionees may be asked to perform standard pieces (e.g., a jazz standard such as \"Now's the Time\") with an ensemble. Similarly, in a rock or blues band, auditionees may be asked to play a rock or blues standard. An auditionee for a rhythm section role (rhythm guitar, electric bass, drumkit, etc.) will be asked to play a range of standard styles or \"feels\" which are used in a given style. For example, a drummer applying to play in a jazz band might be asked to play a slow ballad, a medium \"standard\", and an up-tempo swing style. A bassist auditioning for a pop band might be asked to play in a Motown style bassline, a syncopated 1970s funk \"slapping\" style line, and a reggae-style bassline. A person auditioning for a role as a rhythm section member in some styles of music may be expected to be able to demonstrate the ability to perform as a backup singer.\n\nA performer auditioning for a solo or \"lead\" instrument role will typically perform prepared solos that showcase a range of skills, including the ability to perform a melody with sensitivity and expression; the ability to play virtuosic passages; and, in some styles (e.g., fusion jazz or blues), the ability to improvise a melody over a chord progression. In some popular genres, there is relatively less emphasis on \"stage presence\" and movement onstage, such as classic jazz or traditional 1950s-style country music. In these styles, there is more of a focus on the sound of the music and the expressiveness of the performer with their voice or instrument. In other genres, such as heavy metal \"shred guitar\" or hardcore punk, it may be very important that a performer can move about in a dramatic fashion onstage. One of the differences between instrumentalist auditions in rock music styles and Classical styles is that in a rock context, the performers will be expected to have memorized most or all of the music. In a Classical context, most or all of the music is read from sheet music (with the exception of a solo Bach suite movement or a solo concerto movement).\n\nFor rock, country, and other forms of popular music, auditions are used to test the ability of an instrumentalist or singer to perform a specific style of music, or several styles. A singer auditioning for a role in a musical theatre production would not, unless instructed otherwise, need to sing opera or country music, and a musician auditioning for a seat in an orchestra would not perform rock. Occasionally a musical theatre audition may require the performer to sing a song in the genre to which the musical pertains. For instance, a singer auditioning for \"Destry Rides Again\" may be asked to sing a standard country-western song. A person auditioning for \"The Rocky Horror Show\" may be asked to sing a standard rock song. As well, in some cases, an audition may require a performer to demonstrate pieces in several styles. A hard rock band auditioning a new singer may request that the individual perform songs from heavy metal and related styles such as blues rock. A pop or rock band that is selecting a new lead singer that has whittled the number of applicants down to the top two or three singers may test out how the singers perform in live shows by performing a few live concerts with each guest singer. This allows the band to see how the singer performs in a full multi-hour concert, including how well the singer can develop a rapport with the audience, deal with the inevitable problems that occur in live music (e.g., microphones failing or stage lights malfunctioning), and maintain their vocal endurance until the end of the evening.\nFor smaller roles in a large musical theater production, mass auditions are held at which many inexperienced or aspiring performers, most without agents, show up. These are popularly known as \"cattle calls\", since the hopefuls are often kept together in one large room. The musical \"A Chorus Line\" depicts this type of audition. \"American Idol\" also auditions its aspiring vocalists using this technique, since there are so many auditions. In musical theater and in pop music styles for which onstage dancing is part of the performance (e.g., hip hop), singers who are doing a vocal audition may also be required to demonstrate that they can dance while singing. In some popular music groups, such as a rock band, a backup singer may be expected to be able to play an instrument while singing, such as strumming a simple rhythm guitar part or playing a percussion instrument (e.g., tambourine or congas). While an ability to sing in multiple languages with the appropriate diction and pronunciation is more associated with Classical music than popular music, there are some popular styles where multiple languages are expected, including Latin jazz styles such as Bossa Nova (Portuguese songs may be requested); Tango (Spanish songs may be requested); folk music (French songs may be requested); and Celtic music (Irish songs may be requested).\n\nIn classical music, auditions are used to screen candidates for positions as instrumentalists in chamber groups or orchestras or as soloists, and to screen singers for positions as members of a choir or as solo performers. In classical music, auditions are also used to screen candidates for entry to training programs, university or Conservatory programs or degrees, and training festival activities (e.g., classical summer camps). In comparison with some types of pop music auditions, classical auditions tend to be much more formal. The performer may, by tradition, wear a tuxedo or a formal dress, and the judges may sit behind a desk and write comments on clipboards.\n\nIn classical music, each instrument or vocal type has a standard repertoire of music which is commonly requested at auditions. Instrumentalists in an orchestral context are typically asked to perform excerpts from the orchestral literature, including both exposed solos and \"tutti\" parts which are particularly demanding. Orchestral auditions are typically held in front of a panel that includes the conductor, the Concertmaster, and a number of Principal players from the orchestra. Since the post-WW II era, professional orchestra auditions often include a musician's union representative, who ensures that the audition is being run in a fair manner. In many major orchestras, a cloth screen may be used at some stages of the audition process, to protect the audition panel from allegations of favouritism or sexism.\n\nAn orchestral audition will normally set out a list of orchestral excerpts which each performer has to prepare. As well, each performer plays a movement from a Sonata or Concerto which may be performed with piano accompaniment. When the performer plays the orchestral excerpts, he or she may be given a tempo, or asked to follow the gestures of the conductor. Orchestral auditions are often run in several stages, in order to screen candidates and reduce those who are less likely to meet the needs of the job. A large number of applicants typically apply for a professional orchestra job. The orchestra personnel manager then selects the most promising candidates based on the experience and training indicated in the applicants' CVs (and, in some cases, based on the performing ability demonstrated in a recording of the applicant).\n\nThis first \"cut\" of auditionees then perform in front of the audition panel. Typically in a professional orchestra, this would require the performance of excerpts representing stylistic and technical challenges drawn from repertoire typical to that orchestra. The most promising candidates are invited to return for a second or third round of auditions, which allows the conductor and the panel to compare the best candidates. Performers may be asked to sight read orchestral music.\n\nIf a candidate is successful in passing the audition, typically a Trial period of several months to a year takes place allowing the Chief Conductor and Principal players to see if the individual can function well in an actual performance setting.\n\nThere is a standard repertoire of vocal literature for each voice type (e.g., soprano, alto) that is used at auditions for singers. Each sub-type of vocal activity has a separate standard audition repertoire (e.g., choirs, operas, etc.). A person auditioning for a role in a choir will be expected to be able to sight read choral parts. In auditions for opera, a singer will be expected to demonstrate the ability to act out the movements that are associated with the lyrics of the aria, which may include pretending to be dying from a stab wound, miming an activity (e.g., pouring wine), or doing a simple dance routine. Both choral and opera singers are expected to be able to follow the gestures of a conductor in regards to expression and tempo. Since microphones are not used in most classical music performances, the audition panel will be assessing the auditionees ability to project a strong, room-filling vocal tone. In classical music, in addition to judging singing ability (e.g., tone, intonation, etc.), the audition panel will be judging the applicant's ability to use the appropriate diction and pronunciation of the major languages used in Art music: German, Italian, and French. Other languages that the applicant may be asked to sing in include English, Spanish, Portuguese, and Latin.\n\nIn musical theatre, a standard audition consists of two sixteen-measure selections of songs, contrasting in style, intention, characters, time period, or all of the above. There is also usually a monologue portion, where the actor is asked to perform a one-minute monologue. A headshot and résumé are almost always required. Although auditions vary depending on the theatre, program, or show, this formula is considered “the norm” in the musical theatre world. The purpose of an audition is two-fold. Practically, performers audition to get a callback. \"Callbacks\", or callback auditions, allow the artistic team to assess a performer’s skills in accordance with specific characters. During the callback, the panel has shortlisted a candidate, because they have noted his or her potential for particular parts. As such, during a callback audition, the candidate is asked to sing the songs performed by certain characters or read their lines. The first audition is not a platform for selling oneself as a particular character. Character-specific auditions take place during callbacks. Instead, the first audition is a chance for the performer to show off the songs she does best.\n\nThere are many types of dance auditions for different performance venues. Dance companies hire employees for ballet and modern dance shows. Broadway companies hire dancers for traditional musicals (Rodgers and Hammerstein) and more modern dance musicals (e.g., \"Fame\" and \"Grease\"). Casinos, resorts, amusement parks, and cruise ships hire dancers for revue-style shows that can range from jazz dance to hip-hop. For these shows, some backup singing skills or acting skills may be required. Pop music concert producers and pop music video producers recruit dancers to perform onstage during concerts or during videos. For live pop concerts, onstage dancers may be required to perform simple backup singing. Movie and TV producers also hire dancers for short term shoots; even though a dancer may only get several days of work from a movie or TV show, there may be residual payments. Most auditions specify what type of dance skills are required (e.g., Classical, pointe, contemporary, jazz, hip-hop, etc.). In the case of modern dance, some dance companies ask applicants to demonstrate their ability to improvise dance moves.\n\nMany dance auditions test the ability of applicants to learning new choreography in a short time period, rather than showcasing a prepared work. In other cases, a short prepared solo piece may also be required (about 90 seconds long). Applicants will be instructed in a technical routine or pattern in a group session. Some auditions require applicants to have completed training at a recognised dance school or conservatoire, and in some cases, auditionees may be requested to bring a reference letter from a dance teacher or dance company director (especially in the case of young dancers with little professional experience). At some auditions, applicants are asked to make a short verbal statement about their dancing goals or why they wish to join the troupe. Auditionees should ensure that they know the major dance terms, because the judges may request that certain dance moves be demonstrated.\n\nDancers are often asked to bring one or two photographs, such as a \"headshot\" and a full-body photo of the applicant in a dancing pose. The clothing that auditionees need to wear at auditions varies. At some auditions, particularly Classical auditions, there is a strict dress code: applicants wear dance leotards and pointe shoes, and long hair is tied back. Other dance auditions specify loose clothing. For some contemporary dance auditions, applicants must dance barefoot. In some music theater roles, applicants need to bring tap shoes to demonstrate their tap dancing skills. Some auditions where there is a large number of applicants require the performers to wear a number pinned to their shirt, in a similar way to marathon runners. This way, if the casting director sees an exceptional dancer, he or she can take note of the number. Unless jewellery or make-up is an expected part of a dancer's appearance in a certain dance style, dance auditionees generally avoid jewellery and makeup.\n\nIn music theater and pop music, there is a lot of crossover between dancing and singing roles. Almost all dancers in music theater and many dancers in pop music will be expected to have some singing ability as a backup singer (singing harmony parts to accompany the solo vocalists). In rarer cases, dancers will be asked to demonstrate the ability to play a musical instrument (e.g., guitar), because there are some shows in which some of the dancer-actors have to play instruments onstage, such as the \"Threepenny Opera\". In music theater, there is also often crossover between dancing and acting roles. Dancers may be expected to be able to take on an acting role and speak lines (often in a supporting role).\n\nSome major dance companies have \"open calls\" once a year, in which any or almost any applicant can come to demonstrate their dancing skills. At these open calls, the entire group of applicants are taught a dance routine by a choreographer, and then the group of dancers performs the routine while judges assess their performance. It can be hard for a good dancer to get noticed by the judges in such a large group of dancers. For this reason, some dance coaches encourage their students to wear outgoing clothes and bright things to stand out, so that the dancer will get personal attention during his or her audition. For any audition interviews, dancers should send their resume and headshot to the company director ahead of time.\n\nPerformers auditioning for amusement parks world wide are generally viewed by one or more casting directors in a rehearsal hall or a large facility. Most theme park auditions, like other auditions, are closed to the public. This means that no one is allowed into the audition room who is not auditioning. Vocalists for Disney auditions are asked to prepare two separate vocal selections of contrasting styles. The singers do not sing the entire songs; instead they just need to sing the best 16 bars of each song. Disney provides a piano accompanist for all vocal auditions, and so singers have to bring sheet music in the correct key. Disney does not allow any pre-recorded accompaniment. The casting directors may also ask auditionees to learn additional music or learn a movement combination. Disney Parks & Resorts casts performers for theme parks, resorts, and cruise ships.\n\nAt Cirque du Soleil, depending on a performer's discipline, the audition may last an hour, a day or even two days. Depending on a performer's discipline, he or she might have to perform a solo presentation in front of the group of participants and/or participate in individual and group exercises following the solo presentation. Auditions for Cirque du Soleil are filmed.\n\nModelling agencies and other organizations that are looking for models, such as fashion designers and advertising agencies also use auditions to screen and select potential candidates. Aspiring female models for most fashion industry roles need to be in their teens or early twenties and be tall and slim. Although there are \"niche markets\" for non-svelte models (\"plus size models\" and \"real life models\" who model clothes for middle-market clothing catalogues), most female models need to be slender and between 108–125 lbs. Young men who are aspiring models should be between 18 and 25, tall, and fit. While male models who are selected at modelling auditions may well end up having careers that last till beyond age 25 (even into their 40s), modelling agencies prefer to recruit new models in the 18–25 age range. Most models work with an agent who arranges auditions, bookings, and negotiates fees. At an audition, casting agents will ask the model to demonstrate different poses, which a photographer may record with a digital camera.\n\nFor high fashion auditions, the model may be asked to demonstrate the \"catwalk\" style of modelling clothes on a raised runway. At most modelling auditions, models wear fairly simple clothes that will allow the talent agents to imagine the model in different garments. Typically, a model wears fairly body-hugging clothes, so that the judges can see the body type of the model. Some modelling agencies audition a large number of aspiring models in an \"open call\", in which agents consider applicants for under a minute or so each. Some agencies hold model searches, which is a type of beauty contest in which applicants audition for the opportunity of winning a model portfolio or a photo shoot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8074878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8074878", "title": "Bahamian Creole", "text": "Bahamian Creole\n\nBahamian Creole, known locally as Bahamian dialect, is an English-based creole language spoken mainly in The Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands.\n\nIn comparison to many of the English-based broken speech of the Caribbean region, limited research has been conducted on what is known as Bahamian dialect. This lack of research on Bahamian dialect is perhaps because for many years, Bahamians have assumed that this language is simply a variety of English. However, academic research shows that this is not the case. \nThere is a tendency for speakers to drop or, in a hypercorrection, to add it to words without it so \"harm\" and \"arm\" are pronounced the same. The merger occurs most often in the speech of Abaco and north Eleuthera.\n\nSome speakers have merged and into a single phoneme and pronounce words with or depending on context (the latter appearing in word-initial position and the former appearing elsewhere).\nOutside of white acrolectal speech, speakers have no dental fricatives and English cognate words are usually pronounced with or as in \"dis\" ('this') and \"tink\" ('think'). \nOther characteristics of Bahamian Dialect in comparison to English include:\n\nPronouns in Bahamian Dialect are generally the same as in Standard English. However, the second person plural can take one of three forms:\n\nPossessive pronouns in Bahamian Dialect often differ from Standard English with: \nand\nFor example, \"das ya book?\" means 'is that your book?'\n\nIn addition, the possessive pronouns differ from Standard English:\nWhen describing actions done alone or by a single group, \"only..one\" is used, as in \"only me one sing\" ('I'm the only one who sang') and \"only Mary one gern Nassau\" ('Mary was the only one who went to Nassau')\n\nVerb usage in the Bahamian Dialect differs significantly from that of Standard English. There is also variation amongst speakers. For example, the word \"go\":\n\n1) I'm going to Freeport: \n\n2) I am going to cook\n\n3) Similarly, verb \"to do\" has numerous variations depending on tense and context: \n\n4) In the present tense, the verb \"to be\" is usually conjugated \"is\" regardless of the grammatical person: \n\n5) The negative form of \"to be\" usually takes the form \"een\" \n\"I een gern\" ('I am not goin')\n\n6) Bahamians commonly merge the negative \"een\" to the subject/person being used, turning \"I een\" to \"Ine (sometimes spelled I'n)\".\n\n7) While context is often used to indicate tense (e.g. \"I drink plenny rum las night\" = 'I drank a lot of rum last night'), the past tense can also be formed by combining \"did\", \"done\", \"gone\", or \"been\" with the verb: \n\n8) \"Carry\" is commonly substituted for \"take\"\n\n features over 5,500 words and phrases not found in Standard English, with the authors attempting to link them to other English-based creoles, like Gullah. Words may derive from English, as well as some African languages.\n\n\n\n\n\nEnglish - Bahamas Creole English Glosbe dictionary\n\nBahamas Creole english - english Glosbe dictionary\n"}
{"id": "35793566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35793566", "title": "Basa-Kontagora language", "text": "Basa-Kontagora language\n\nBasa-Kontagora is a nearly extinct Kainji language of Nigeria. It is spoken in Mariga, Niger State, near Kontagora and the Basa homeland.\n"}
{"id": "1334922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1334922", "title": "Cataclysm (Dragonlance)", "text": "Cataclysm (Dragonlance)\n\nIn the \"Dragonlance\" books, the Cataclysm (Great Destruction) was a catastrophic event that occurred when the Kingpriest of Istar demanded to be given godlike powers in order to eliminate evil from the world.\n\nDetailed in the novel \"Chosen of the Gods\", Beldinas Pilofiro, last Kingpriest of Istar, never liked the concept of balance. He believed that Paladine accepted it in a time when he was previously weak. As time passed, and the forces of good flourished after the Third Dragon War in which Huma Dragonbane defeated Takhisis, he thought the time to break that outdated pact was nearing.\n\nHis decision to end the balance became strengthened when the previous Kingpriest, known as Kurnos the Usurper, sent Sathira, an evil spirit, to kill him. Ilista, First Daughter and the woman who traveled from far Istar led by a prophecy to find the true Kingpriest, sacrificed herself in order to save him.\n\nThough at the beginning Beldinas only fought evil, as time passed, he began to include those who did not think exactly like him. Thus, he destroyed temples and expelled followers of the Neutral Gods, as well. With time, his obsession drove him to also destroy even \"heretic\" followers of the Gods of Light. As detailed in the novel \"Divine Hammer\", this also caused the Kingpriest to try to destroy all Wizards of High Sorcery, causing the Order to destroy the Towers of High Sorcery in Losarcum and Daltigoth in self-defense. This also caused Andras Rannoch, who was being mind-controlled by Fistandantilus, to curse the Tower of High Sorcery in Palanthas upon his death.\n\nFor thirteen days prior to the Cataclysm the gods sent warnings to the fanatical Kingpriest and his followers, all of which went unheeded. Following is a list, in order.\n\n\nThe warnings had been prophesied by the First Son Revando before taking his own life. Emissary Quarath, though knowing about the warnings, did not tell the Kingpriest their true meanings.\n\nThe Kingpriest misunderstood the warnings, utterly convinced of his own infallible truth. He believed those were the last efforts of the evil gods, and only hardened his resolution.\n\nHe regarded Paladine as too weak to completely destroy evil, but with the Kingpriest as his right arm, evil could be defeated. The Kingpriest called for the genocidal destruction of the ogre races, and the relocation of the dwarves and kender. For his arrogance, the gods punished the city of Istar.\n\nSoon after the Kingpriest made his demand, a \"fiery mountain\" struck Istar. The city and all the land around it were driven deep into the ground, and the sea roared in to fill the gap. Thick, red soil was churned up by the water, giving it a reddish tint. This new body of water became known as the Blood Sea of Istar. Where the Temple of the Kingpriest once stood, there was a perpetual, massive whirlpool that kept the red soil churned up, leaving the Blood Sea permanently blood-colored. On the opposite side of the continent of Ansalon, the Kingdom of Ergoth was broken from the mainland, and split in two. More water flooded inland and created the Newsea. The city of Caergoth, an inland farming city, suddenly found itself on the ocean's doorstep. To the south, the thriving port city of Tarsis found that the sea had retreated, and they were now surrounded by plains as far as the eye could see. The effects of the Cataclysm continue to be felt on Krynn to this day.\n\nSeveral cities, including Xak Tsaroth, were utterly destroyed.\n\nPost-Cataclysm time in Krynn is often rendered \"AC\", to denote \"After Cataclysm\".\n\n"}
{"id": "926353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=926353", "title": "Cathedral (board game)", "text": "Cathedral (board game)\n\nCathedral is a two-player abstract strategy board game in which two factions (\"dark\" and \"light\") vie for territorial supremacy within the bounds of a medieval city. The game is produced by Chrisbo I.P. Holdings Limited in New Zealand.\n\nCathedral was invented between 1962 and 1979 by Robert Moore (16 August 1942 – 19 June 1998), a pilot in the Royal New Zealand Air Force. Inspiration for the game was provided by Christchurch Cathedral and its environs in Christchurch, New Zealand. From the air, Moore was fascinated by the way the cathedral and neighbouring buildings intricately fit together, like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. He conceived of a game involving players trying to build interlocking buildings around a cathedral.\n\nIn 1979 Moore presented a prototype version of his game to Brightway Products, a New Zealand wooden toy and game company. Two versions of the game were originally created: a \"formal piece\" using three-dimensional wooden models of mediaeval buildings and towers; and an \"abstract piece\" consisting of two-dimensional squares. The formal piece proved more popular and is the only version produced today; in Standard, Tournalux (larger), and Grandelux (larger and higher quality) versions. The game was also recreated from as early as 1985 (from Mattel) in a more consumer accepted version in plastic moulded version with very highly detailed parts as well as a grided locking system added to the board.\n\nIt is generally accepted that the concept of the game is not subject to copyright. However, the name and specific wording of the rules and gameplay are copyright 1998 Chrisbo I.P. Holdings Limited.\n\nThe idea of the game is to capture territory on the game board, allowing you to place all of your gamepieces while preventing your opponent from doing likewise.\n\nCathedral is played on a wooden board divided into a 10x10 grid. The board is enclosed by turreted walls and represents a medieval city. There are 29 pieces, all small abstracts of buildings. One building is the Cathedral, painted grey. The rest of the buildings are divided into 14 dark and 14 light pieces, one set for each player. Notable is the fact that two of the pieces are configured differently between colors: the Academy and the Abbey. In the standard and tournalux versions of the game the darker pieces are stained, in the grandelux version they are made of a darker hardwood. The pieces and the game board are covered with a lacquer finish. A plastic version was produced for a short period in the mid 1980s.\n\nWhichever player is using the \"light\" pieces begins by placing the Cathedral anywhere within the play area, aligned with the squares. Next the \"dark\" player places one of their game pieces on the board. Play alternates between the two sides until one side is unable to make a move. At this point, the other side attempts to place all of their remaining pieces in areas they have captured.\n\nPlayers may capture territory within the city by completely enclosing it with their pieces alone, or with the help of the city walls. Boundaries of these areas must be \"wall to wall;\" that is, if two of the surrounding pieces only touch on their corners, that's not a capture. If the captured territory contains one and only one of the opponent's pieces or the cathedral, that piece may be removed and the opponent may no longer place pieces in that area. An opponent's piece so removed can return to play at a later stage, but the cathedral will remain absent for the remainder of the game. If the territory contains more than one piece (including the Cathedral), it is not captured and remains available for the opponent to use. Strategy: Use the largest pieces first, don't play into your captured space until you have no pieces left that will fit into the uncaptured areas.\n\nThe winner is the player who manages to place all of their pieces, while preventing their opponent from doing so. If neither player is able to place all of their pieces, then the player whose remaining pieces would take up the smaller area is declared the winner.\n\nWhen playing multiple games in a row, players alternate placing the Cathedral and moving first. At the end of each game, each player gets a score based on the number of squares that their opponent's remaining buildings would occupy. Because of the different configuration in the two pieces mentioned above (in equipment), a good way to play multiple games is a 4-game set, with players playing each color twice, players alternating playing the Cathedral and moving first.\n\nIt is argued by ludologist Tom Lehmann that Cathedral is \"broken\", in that there is an opening strategy for the first player that cannot be countered by the second player. The suggested fix is for the second player to also place the Cathedral along with their first piece.\n\n"}
{"id": "2607984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2607984", "title": "Culture of the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "Culture of the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nThe culture of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is extremely diverse, reflecting the great diversity and different customs which exist in the country. Congolese culture combines the influence of tradition to the region, but also combines influences from abroad which arrived during the era of colonization and has continued to have a strong influence, without destroying the individuality of many tribal' customs.\n\nLike many African countries, the borders were drawn up by colonial powers, and bore little relation to the actual spread of ethno-linguistic groups. There are 242 languages spoken in the country, with perhaps a similar number of ethnic groups. Broadly speaking, there are four main population groups:\n\nThe above descriptions are by necessity simplified. Many Congolese are multilingual, and the language used depends on the context. For instance, a government official might use French to set a tone of formality and authority with another official, use Lingala when buying goods at a market, and the local language when in his home village. English is also spoken, especially in the east where eastern and southern African influences have spread in the post-Mobutu era. Among the slangs spoken in Congo, Indubil has been noted since around the 1960s, and continues to evolve nowadays.\n\nMixed marriages between ethnic groups are common, particularly in urban areas where many different groups live side by side. Europeans appear in small numbers throughout the country, as missionaries in the countryside, and as businessmen and traders in the cities. Also acting as merchants are small numbers of Lebanese and Pakistanis.\n\nMore information on the various peoples in Congo can be found in the Early Congolese History article.\n\nThe main religions in the DRC are:\n\nThere are small communities of Jews and Hindus who work in commercial urban areas. Atheism is very rare.\n\nThough only 11.5 per cent of Congolese \"exclusively\" follow indigenous beliefs, these traditional belief systems are often intermingled with forms of Christianity, and are familiar to the majority of Congolese. Throughout the DRC the beliefs take on a number of forms, but they have a number of things in common:\n\nBelief in Witchcraft is common, and sometimes intersects with the more fundamentalist and evangelical versions of Christianity. In recent years, these beliefs have gained adherents in urban areas, whereas before they were mainly confined to the countryside. The increasing beliefs in witches and sorcery have tended to mirror the social decay caused by war and poverty. Many of the street children that roam the Congo's cities have been cast out of their families after being denounced as witches. These homeless 'witch children' often live in cemeteries and only come out at night, and follow occult practices. See BBC News article on Kinshasa's street children. For comparison, see article on beliefs of Miami street children.\n\nChristianity has a long history in Congo, dating back to 1484, when the Portuguese arrived and convinced the king and entourage of the Kongo people to convert. In 1506, a Portuguese-supported candidate for kingship, Alfonso I of Kongo won the throne. Alfonso (the Kongo royal family had begun to take on Portuguese names), established relations with the Vatican. More widespread conversion occurred during the Belgian colonial era. Christianity varies in its forms, and is in some ways surprisingly similar to native beliefs.\n\nDuring the colonial period, a European-style Christianity was at first promoted by the authorities. Native Congolese generally attended different churches or services from whites. If they worshiped under the same roof, the native Congolese sat on benches at the back, while the whites sat in chairs at the front. Towards the end of the colonial era, more African elements were incorporated into Christianity, including songs and dances which were formerly condemned as pagan. Eventually, even native fables and myths were appropriated and merged into Congolese Christianity, in a similar process to that which occurred with Christianity in Europe.\n\nRecent developments include the increasing popularity of the \"Gospel of Prosperity\" – a form of Christianity in which the emphasis is on wealth acquisition and born-again Christianity. Adherents are led to believe that instant wealth and magical prosperity will result from giving tithes to their charismatic preacher. The leaders often draw on the techniques of American televangelists, and the message is appealing to those living in extreme poverty.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, prophetic movements sprang up. Their nature was both anti-colonial and Christian, and led to a rigorous crackdown by the authorities.\n\nSimon Kimbangu was the prophet of the largest of these movements. He was born in a village near Kinshasa, raised and educated by a Protestant Christian mission and trained to become a priest. In April 1921, at the age of 39, he reportedly had a religious vision of Jesus Christ, who called on him to reconvert his people and dedicate his life to Christ. Kimbangu chose to try to ignore the vision, and fled to Kinshasa where he abandoned his life as a priest and took to menial work. More visions came, and eventually he heeded the calling and returned to his home village and started to devote his life to Christ.\n\nSoon after, he is reported to have healed a sick woman by laying his hands on her. Dozens of apparent miracles were subsequently performed by Kimbangu, and he gained followers from surrounding villages and towns. The official Catholic organizations protested to the authorities, and the Protestant church abandoned him. The economic effects of Kimbangu's ministry were being felt, with thousands of Congolese leaving their work to listen to Kimbangu speak. In June the Belgians arrested him for inciting revolution and civil disobedience. Four months later he was sentenced to death. After an international outcry, Albert I of Belgium commuted the sentence to life imprisonment. He died 30 years later in prison, in 1951.\n\nColonial authorities assumed his movement would wither after his imprisonment and death, but the church continued to flourish underground, and was an effective weapon in the fight against colonialism. In the post-colonial era, its record has been more mixed. Instead of banning the church, Mobutu used a far more effective method of neutralizing it: namely co-opting the church and giving it an official status. Kimbanguism has now spread across the country, and now has branches in nine of the surrounding countries, making it the most popular \"native\" form of Christianity in Africa. Followers do not smoke, drink alcohol and abhor violence. Monogamy is practiced.\n\nArticle 22 of the constitution allows for religious freedom. These rights are generally respected by the government. Religious tension exists in some areas because of the link between prophetic groups and paramilitary organizations. In the turbulent eastern region, where the Second Congo War still simmers, some guerrilla groups have a major religious element, believing for instance that they are able to turn enemy bullets into water by wearing certain fetishes.\nOnly 2.86% of the land is cultivated, and most of this is used for subsistence farming. People gather wild fruit, mushrooms, and honey, as well as hunt and fish. They will often sell these crops at markets or by the roadside. Cattle breeding and the development of large-scale agricultural businesses has been hindered by the recent war and the poor quality of the road system.\n\nCongo's farmland is the source of a wide variety of crops. These include maize, rice, cassava (manioc), sweet potato, yam, taro, plantain, tomato, pumpkin and varieties of peas and nuts. These foods are eaten throughout the country, but there are also regional dishes. The most important crops for export are coffee and palm oil.\n\nCongolese musicians, like Le Grand Kallé, were extremely influential in pioneering the musical style of \"African Rumba\"', a blend of South American and traditional African musical styles, more often known as \"Soukous\" in the years leading up to the independence of the Belgian Congo. Congolese musicians were supported by the Mobutu regime in Zaire during the Cold War, and musicians like Pépé Kallé became incredible popular in the international francophone market into the 1990s.\n\nIn the years following independence, the nascent Congolese film industry was held up by many years of war. However, the first Congolese feature film (\"La Vie est Belle\" by the celebrated director Mwezé Ngangura) was released in 1987. In recent years, Congolese cinema has reached a wider audience, though the growth of the industry is restricted by the small profits which directors can make (owing to unauthorized distribution) and rarity of credit.\n\n\nThe Congolese are known for their art. Traditional art includes masks, wooden statues, art of the Kuba Kingdom, textiles and woven arts. Notable contemporary artists are Chéri Samba or Bodys Isek Kingelez. The best known artists successful inside and outside the country are Lema Kusa (painting), Alfred Liyolo (sculpture), Roger Botembe (painting), Nshole (painting), Henri Kalama Akulez (painting), Mavinga (painting), Freddy Tsimba (sculpture), Claudy Khan (painting). Some are teaching at the Académie de Beaux-Arts de Kinshasa, which is the only arts academy of a university level in Central Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "25963682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25963682", "title": "Customs and etiquette in Chinese dining", "text": "Customs and etiquette in Chinese dining\n\nCustoms and etiquette in Chinese dining are the traditional behaviors observed while eating in Greater China. Traditional Han customs have spread throughout East Asia, but sometimes evolved differently especially following the Communist revolution that produced the PRC. Even within Mainland China, there are many customs and protocols involved in formal dining, applying to almost all aspects of the experience, from guest seating to paying the bill.\n\nIn most traditional Chinese dining, dishes are shared communally. Although both square and rectangular tables are used for small groups of people, round tables are preferred for large groups, particularly in restaurants, in order to permit easy sharing. Lazy Susan turntables are a common feature at the center of larger tables, to facilitate passing of serving dishes.\nA basic place-setting consists of a small teacup; a large plate with a small, empty rice bowl; a set of chopsticks, usually on the right of the plate; and a spoon. Additions may include a chopstick holder; a large water or wine glass; and a smaller glass for \"baijiu\". At homes and low-end restaurants, napkins may consist of tissues or occasionally must be provided by the dinner. High restaurants often provide cloth napkins similar to western dining as part of the place-settings.\nThere is a specific seating order to every formal dinner, based on seniority and organizational hierarchy. The seat of honor, reserved for the host or oldest person, is usually the one in the center facing east or facing the entrance. Others with higher status then sit in close proximity to the seat of honor, while those with lower positions sit further away. The least prominent seat is generally the one nearest to the kitchen entrance or service door.\n\nWide variations exist throughout China, but the vast majority of full-course dinners are very similar in terms of timing and dishes.\n\nSnacks are the first items presented. Two or more small dishes are brought to the table, holding boiled unsalted peanuts, salted roasted peanuts, or similar dishes. These may be consumed while ordering, or while waiting for other dishes to arrive.\n\nTea is almost always provided, either in advance of the diners being seated or immediately afterward. It can be consumed at leisure throughout the meal. (Water is sometimes served, but tea is the default beverage.) A verbal \"thank you\" () may be offered to the server pouring the refill or, if in the middle of a conversation where it would be rude to interrupt the speaker, the table may be tapped twice with two bent fingers instead.\n\nThis typically consists of many dishes, usually roughly one dish per person. White rice is provided in small bowls and food is often consumed over it, flavoring it with their sauces. The rice is consumed little by little along with the other dishes and not separately, unless the diner remains hungry after the last dish has been removed.\n\nA soup may also be served as one of the dishes. At small meals, especially at home, it may replace the diners' beverage entirely.\n\nNear the end of the meal, a starch dish noodles, Chinese dumplings, or \"baozi\" is sometimes served, to ensure that guests are satiated.\n\nEating is a dominant aspect of Chinese culture, and eating out is one of the most common ways to honor guests, socialize, and deepen friendships.\n\nProper etiquette is very important to traditional Chinese people, who feel good manners invite luck, and boorish conduct brings shame. Although many Maoist programs aimed to curtail traditional social practices, today table etiquette is again taken as an indication of educational status, so that (for example) a child misusing their chopsticks at a formal dinner might embarrass their family, who are responsible for teaching the child.\n\nAlthough individual households may have their own house rules, the Chinese traditions used to welcome guests are largely the same throughout the country. There are common rules for inviting guests over.\n\nWater and other non-alcoholic beverages may be consumed at any time. However, in formal settings, alcohol should be consumed during toasts. A modest toast may be followed by a single sip of wine or swallow of beer, but a \"baijiu\" toast is often ended with \"Ganbei!\" (): an exhortation to drain the glass. Ideally, glasses are refilled immediately following a toast in preparation for the next.\n\nA Lazy Susan is a circular rotating tray placed at the center of a table and used to easily share a large number of dishes among the diners. A Lazy Susan can be made from many materials, but most often they are constructed of glass, wood, or plastic.\n\nIt is typical for all the dishes for a course to be brought out together and placed around the Lazy Susan. If the dishes come out one at a time or if there is some special delicacy, they are typically served to the guest of honor first and then rotated clockwise around the table. The host will often wait to serve himself last. Dishes should typically not be removed from the Lazy Susan and placed on the table: at most, one should hold the dish aloft while serving and then return it to its place on the tray.\n\nOne should try to avoid moving the Lazy Susan even slightly when someone is in the act of transferring food from the dishes to their plate or bowl. Likewise, it is impolite to hoard or use up all of a dish until it has been offered to everyone and the other diners clearly do not care for it. For this reason, it is common to take a smaller amount from the dishes on the first round and to keep the other diners in mind when taking a larger second helping.\n\nSince chopsticks (and spoons) are used in place of forks and knives, Chinese cuisine tends to serve dishes in bite-size pieces or employ cooking techniques that render dishes such as fish or \"hong shao rou\" soft enough to be picked apart easily. Some common etiquette is:\n\nAt most formal meals, there are likely pairs of communal serving chopsticks (, \"gongkuai\"). These are sets of chopsticks specifically for shared dishes only. Often, these will be distinct from the \"putongkuai\" (regular chopsticks) in that they will be longer and more ornate. There will sometimes be one set of communal chopsticks per dish or one set per course. The ratio varies. If there are no gongkuai set on the table, it is never rude to request that they be provided. People will just think that you are a stickler for formality and good manners.\n\nIn most restaurants in Chinese countries, there is no tip required unless it is explicitly posted. Usually, if there is a tip required, it will already be on the bill. In Chinese restaurants in the US though, tips are usually expected.\n\nIt is a common sight for families to fight for the bill, as paying the bill symbolizes generosity and sincerity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1590933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1590933", "title": "Double feature", "text": "Double feature\n\nThe double feature, also known as a double bill, was a motion picture industry phenomenon in which theatre managers would exhibit two films for the price of one, supplanting an earlier format in which one feature film and various short subject reels would be shown.\n\nOpera houses staged two operas together for the sake of providing long performance for the audience. This was related to one-act or two-act short operas that were otherwise commercially hard to stage alone. A prominent example is the double-bill of \"Pagliacci\" with \"Cavalleria rusticana\" first staged on 22 December 1893 by the Met. The two operas have since been frequently performed as a double-bill, a pairing referred to in the operatic world colloquially as \"Cav and Pag\".\n\nThe double feature originated in the 1930s. Previous to the 1930s, the dominant presentation model consisted of the following: \nWith the widespread arrival of sound film in American theaters in 1929, many independent exhibitors began dropping the then-dominant presentation model. Movie theaters suffered a downturn in business in the early years of the Great Depression.\n\nTheater owners decided they could both attract more customers and save on costs if they offered two movies for the price of one. The tactic worked, audiences considered the cost of a theater ticket good value for several hours of escapist and varied entertainment, and the practice became a standard pattern of programming.\n\nIn the typical 1930s double bill, the screening began with a variety program consisting of trailers, a newsreel, a cartoon and/or a short film preceding a low-budget second feature (the B movie), followed by a short interlude. Lastly, the high-budget main feature (the A movie) ran.\n\nA neighborhood theatre running a double feature won out over a higher-priced first-run theatre with only one feature film. The major studios took note of this, and began making their own B features using the technicians and sets of the studio and featuring stars on their way up or on their way down. The major studios also made film series featuring recurring characters.\n\nAlthough the double feature put many short comedy producers out of business, it was the primary source of revenue for smaller Hollywood studios, such as Republic and Monogram, that specialized in B movie production.\n\nThe double feature arose partly because of a studio practice known as \"block booking,\" a form of tying in which major Hollywood studios required theaters to buy B-movies along with the more desirable A-movies. The U.S. Supreme Court decided that this practice was illegal in \"United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc.\" in 1948, contributing to the end of the studio system.\n\nEven after the studio requirement was dropped, many smaller or independent neighborhood theatres, especially drive-in theatres, sought double features to bring in more patronage. By the end of the 1940s double features were regular policy at 29 percent of American cinemas with 36 percent having them part-time. After the Paramount Decree the sources of the second feature had changed. The second feature could be:\n\nJames H. Nicholson and Samuel Z. Arkoff formed their American International Pictures with the idea of providing a double feature of two B pictures for often less than the price of a single A feature, or taking a lower percentage of the cinema's grosses than the major studios.\n\nBy the 1960s, double features had been mostly abandoned in non–drive-ins in favor of the modern single-feature screening, in which only one feature film is exhibited. However, double bills of popular series that had previously been run as a single feature such as the James Bond and Matt Helm superspy genre and \"The Man With No Name\" and \"The Stranger\" spaghetti westerns were re-released together by the main studios.\n\nWhile most cinemas have discontinued the practice of showing the double feature, it has nostalgia appeal. The Astor Theatre in St Kilda, Melbourne, Australia, established in 1936, continues the tradition of the double feature.\n\nShort films still occasionally precede the feature presentation (Pixar films generally feature a short, for example), but the double feature is now effectively extinct in first-run movie theaters in the U.S.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\", three Roger Rabbit cartoon shorts were created to be shown as preludes to other Disney films, in an effort to revive the viewing of cartoon shorts before major films. Only three were made and the scheme failed.\n\nMany repertory houses continue to show two films, usually related in some way, back to back.\n\nDuring the 1990s, many VHS cassettes that showed two films on the same tape (the second was often a sequel to the first film) were self-named as \"double features.\"\n\nIn 2007, filmmakers Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez released their individual films \"Planet Terror\" and \"Death Proof\" as a double feature under the title \"Grindhouse\", edited together with fake exploitation film trailers and 1970s-era snipes in order to replicate the experience of viewing a double feature in a grindhouse theater. Although \"Grindhouse\" received critical acclaim, it was a complete financial flop in the United States. The films were screened individually in international markets and on DVD.\n\nAnother recent double feature was the Duel Project, when Japanese directors Ryuhei Kitamura and Yukihiko Tsutsumi created competing films to be shown and voted on by the premier audience.\n\nMore recently, two double features of re-released popular films hit the big screen. The first was of the re-release of \"Toy Story\" and \"Toy Story 2\" that started October 2, 2009 before the release of \"Toy Story 3\" in the following year. Both films were in Disney Digital 3D in select movie theaters. The second double feature, and the most recent one, was a re-release of \"Twilight\" and \"\" for one night only, on June 29, 2010, shortly before the midnight screening of \"\" in select theaters. In February 2011, it was announced that the 14th Pokémon movie \"\", due in July, would be released as a double-feature, though both films are actually \"versions\" of each other, with differences related to plot points and character designs varying between the version being watched.\n"}
{"id": "1425751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1425751", "title": "Electrotachyscope", "text": "Electrotachyscope\n\nThe electrotachyscope is an 1887 invention of Ottomar Anschütz of Germany which presents the illusion of motion with transparent serial photographs, chronophotographs, arranged on a spinning wheel of fortune or mandala-like glass disc, significant as a technological development in the history of cinema.\n\nA Geissler tube was used to flash light through the transparencies to provide a weak projection to a single person or small audience through a small window.\n\nIt was first publicly demonstrated at the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.\n\nAn earlier, related device is described in the January 24, 1878 issue of the journal \"Nature\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1139964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1139964", "title": "Fantastic Voyage II: Destination Brain", "text": "Fantastic Voyage II: Destination Brain\n\nFantastic Voyage II: Destination Brain is a science fiction novel by American writer Isaac Asimov, published in 1987. It is about a group of scientists who shrink to microscopic size in order to enter a human brain so that they can retrieve memories from a comatose colleague.\n\nDespite the title, \"Fantastic Voyage II: Destination Brain\" is not a sequel to \"Fantastic Voyage\", which is a novelization that Asimov wrote from the 1966 film of the same name. Asimov was never quite happy with the original novel because although he was able to change some of the scientific details, it was not entirely his own work. Therefore, he wrote \"Fantastic Voyage II\" as a new, separate story or reboot that shares only the central concept of miniaturized scientists entering a human body.\n\nThe story takes place in the mid to late 21st century: the Cold War has ended, yet the Soviet regime remains strong and proud. Americans and Soviets enjoy peace, but without fully accepting each other's ways, and with each always struggling for technological superiority and the prestige that accompanies it.\n\nUnder conditions of absolute secrecy, the Soviets have developed a miniaturization technology that can reduce a human to the dimensions of a molecule, or smaller. However, the process requires an enormous input of energy to miniaturize even a small object for a short time. So, although miniaturization has been shown to be scientifically possible, it also appears to be economically impracticable - a hollow triumph.\n\nOne Soviet scientist, Pyotor Leonovich Shapirov, a pioneer of the miniaturization process, had spoken vaguely of a way to make it affordable. Unfortunately, he now lies in a coma, with his secrets apparently locked away forever.\n\nBut Shapirov had been acquainted with an American scientist, Albert Jonas Morrison, who has his own peculiar theories regarding the brain's processing and storage of creative thought. Shapirov had been greatly intrigued by Morrison's ideas, and it's this interest that led the Soviets to turn to Morrison for help.\n\nAfter a great deal of coercion, Morrison agrees to be miniaturized along with four Soviet scientists, enter Shapirov's dying brain, and attempt to use his computer program to retrieve the thoughts contained therein.\n\nLater, having returned safely to normal size, but without any usable information from Shapirov, Morrison has made a new, startling discovery, which may help the Americans beat the Soviets at their own game.\n\nIn the novel, miniaturization is achieved by reducing the value of Planck's constant within a finite field, which it claims is the only conceivable way to do it. However, in reducing Planck's constant, the Soviet miniaturization process leaves the speed of light unchanged, and this is supposedly the reason for the extreme energy requirements.\n\nThe novel suggests two ways to solve the problem. One is to capture the energy that's released during deminiaturization and convert it into an electromagnetic field. That harnessed energy, then, could presumably be used to partially power the next miniaturization. But this is only an off-the-cuff idea, and although helpful, it would not be enough to make miniaturization truly affordable.\n\nThe other idea, which is the idea that's locked away in Shapirov's brain, is to couple Planck's constant with the speed of light, so that when one is decreased, the other is increased. Shapirov claimed that that would lead to a very low cost miniaturization, but nobody else has any idea of how to accomplish it.\n\nDuring the mission inside Shapirov's body, Morrison discovers that his programmed computer, instead of reading Shapirov's thoughts, has actually been reading the thoughts of Morrison's shipmates. This causes Morrison to theorize that if a number of people were united telepathically using his machine, those people might form a super-human think tank that could rediscover Shapirov's theories in short order.\n\nAs for practical applications for miniaturization, in addition to all of the obvious possibilities, the novel suggests that if a ship were reduced to the proper size, it could travel at many times the ordinary speed of light. Controlling the direction of that flight would be a significant problem, because at a small enough size, the ship would simply radiate in a random direction.\n\nThis novel is implied to be included in the fictional universe of the \"Robot\" series; near the end of the novel, an American scientist describes fictional components of a robotic positronic brain.\n\n\"Kirkus Reviews\" said the novel \"slips down easily enough but leaves no lingering impression\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "334073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334073", "title": "Flag of Guatemala", "text": "Flag of Guatemala\n\nThe flag of Guatemala, often referred to as \"Pabellón Nacional\" (literally, \"National Flag\") or \"Azuliblanco\" (\"Blue and White\") features two colors: sky blue and white. The two sky blue stripes represent the fact that Guatemala is a land located between two oceans, the Pacific Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean (Caribbean sea); and the sky over the country (see Guatemala's national anthem). The white signifies peace and purity. The blue and white colors, like those of several other countries in the region, are based on the flag of the former Federal Republic of Central America. \n\nIn the center of the flag is the Guatemalan coat of arms. It includes the resplendent quetzal, the national bird of Guatemala that symbolizes liberty; a parchment scroll bearing the date of Central America's independence from Spain, 15 September 1821; crossed rifles, indicating Guatemala's willingness to defend itself by force if need be; a bay laurel crown, the symbol for victory; and crossed swords, representing honor. The flag is one of only three national flags of UN member states to feature a firearm, the others being those of Mozambique and Haiti.\n\nThe Federal Republic of Central America flag was used in Guatemala until 1851, when a pro-Spanish faction took over and added the Spanish colors of red and yellow to the flag. The original colors were restored on August 17, 1871, but as vertical (rather than horizontal) stripes in order to distinguish it from other flags and with a new coat of arms.\n\nThe resplendent quetzal previously appeared in the 1830s in the flag of Los Altos, the sixth state in the Federal Republic.\nIn 2008 a flag called the \"Bandera de Los Pueblos\" (Flag of indigenous peoples) was adopted by law and is shown together with the national flag of Guatemala in all events featuring the President of Guatemala since then. The flag is divided in four parts, red, yellow, white and black, each colour representing Xinca people, Garifuna people, Maya peoples and Ladino people, respectively.\n\nThese colours are also part of the \"Q'anil\", a Maya symbol in which each color represents a point of the compass, an element of nature and a part of the human being. \"Q'anil\" means \"seed\" in Maya script, and is also used for one of the 20 days of the Maya calendar.\nAimed at promoting \"interculturality\" in Guatemala, the \"Bandera de los Pueblos\" was received with coolness by the leaders of the peoples, who do not seem to have been consulted.\n\nThe Guatemalan Flag has changed throughout history, arriving to its current design in 1871.\n\n"}
{"id": "459301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459301", "title": "Flag of Saint Lucia", "text": "Flag of Saint Lucia\n\nThe flag of Saint Lucia consists of a cerulean blue field charged with a yellow triangle in front of a white-edged black isosceles triangle. Adopted in 1967 to replace the British Blue Ensign defaced with the arms of the colony, it has been the flag of Saint Lucia since the country became an Associated State of the United Kingdom that year. Although the overall design of the flag has remained unchanged, specific aspects of it have been altered over the years.\n\nThe French colonised Saint Lucia in 1635 and subsequently signed a treaty with the local indigenous population 45 years later in 1680. However, the British vied for control with the French, and the island frequently switched hands between the two powers. This continued until 1814, when the Treaty of Paris was signed that saw France permanently relinquish Saint Lucia to the British, and it became a crown colony of the United Kingdom within its colonial empire in that same year. During this colonial period of French and British rule, Saint Lucia did not have its own unique colonial flag.\n\nThe British finally granted Saint Lucia its own unique coat of arms in August 1939. The escutcheon consisted of a black shield featuring two sticks of bamboo forming a cross, with two Tudor roses symbolising England and two fleurs-de-lis symbolising France occupying the four quadrants. This emblem was utilised to deface the British Blue Ensign in order to form the territory's flag.\n\nThe island became part of the West Indies Federation from 1958 to 1962. However, this political union turned out to be unsuccessful, and on 1 March 1967 – five years after the federation was dissolved – Saint Lucia became an Associated State. This gave the territory full control over domestic matters, while Britain retained responsibility for the island's foreign affairs and defence. The territory's new flag, which was designed by native Saint Lucian artist Dunstan St Omer, was adopted on that same day. When Saint Lucia became an independent country on 22 February 1979, the overall design of the flag from twelve years before remained unchanged, but the blue colour's shade and the triangles' sizes were modified marginally. Despite the fact that the island already had its own distinct flag by the time it became a sovereign state, the Union Jack was still lowered for the final time at the official ceremony marking independence.\n\nThe colours and symbols of the flag carry cultural, political, and regional meanings. The blue epitomises the sky and the sea, specifically the Atlantic Ocean and Caribbean Sea which encircle the country. The black and white allude to the harmonious relationship between the black and white races. The yellow symbolises the sunshine, as well as prosperity. The triangles represent the Pitons, which are twin volcanic cones located in the southwest part of the island and unity; Gros Piton and Petit Piton are a national symbol of Saint Lucia.\n\n"}
{"id": "41730658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41730658", "title": "Fool (stock character)", "text": "Fool (stock character)\n\nThere are several distinct, although overlapping categories of fool as a stock character in creative works (literature, film, etc.) and folklore: simpleton fool, clever fool, and serendipitous fool.\n\nA silly, stupid, simpleton, luckless fool is a butt of numerous jokes and tales all over the world.\n\nSometimes the foolishness is ascribed to a whole place, as exemplified by the Wise Men of Gotham. The localizing of fools is common to most countries, and there are many other reputed imbecile centres in England besides Gotham. Thus there are the people of Coggeshall, Essex, the \"carles\" of Austwick, Yorkshire, the \"gowks\" of Gordon, Berwickshire, and for many centuries the charge of folly has been made against silly Suffolk and Norfolk (\"Descriptio Norfolciensium\" about twelfth century, printed in Wright's \"Early Mysteries and other Latin Poems\").\n\nIn Germany there are the \"\", from the fictitious town of \"Schilda\"; in the Netherlands, the people of Kampen; in Bohemia, the people of Kocourkov; and in Moravia the people of Šimperk. There are also the Swedish Täljetokar from Södertälje and Kälkborgare from Kälkestad, and the Danish tell tales of the foolish inhabitants of the \"Molboland\". In Latin America, the people of Galicia are the butt of many jokes. In Spain, the people of Lepe, a town in Andalusia, follow a similar fate. Among the ancient Greeks, Boeotia was the home of fools; among the Thracians, Abdera; among the ancient Jews, Nazareth; among modern Jews, Chełm; among the ancient Asiatics, Phrygia.\n\nIn Jewish folklore, Schlemiel and Schlimazl are two popular subtypes of a fool. The following saying helps to tell them apart: a schlemiel is a man who spills hot soup on a schlimazl: the first one is clueless, while the second one is luckless.\n\nNumbskull/noodlehead stories are about well-meaning folks who take an advice too literally to their own grievance or who find the most complicated solution to the most simple problem. However, sometimes they may end with luck (\"serendipitous fool\"). These can vary from an absent-minded professor (a stock character in itself) to Jack form \"Jack and the Beanstalk\" who exchanged cow for a bean. In that, numbskull stories overlap with trickster stories, where a numbskull is often a \"mark\" (victim) for a trickster.\n\nMany tales are based on the idea that a simple nature of a fool is a guise of wisdom, or even the wisdom itself.\n\nOn the other hand, the mask of a fool may be used to utter wise but unpleasant truths. Some classify jesters into two categories: \"natural fools\" (people who lacked social awareness and could occasionally utter the truth simply being unaware of social conventions) and \"licensed fools\" (often picked to be jester for their physical handicap, and their telling the truth was simply part of \"job description\").\n\nIn addition to jesters, naturally stupid people gave rise to other categories of respected fools, such as holy fool, e.g., \"yurodivy\" in Russian tradition, avadhuta in some Indian religions, and other manifestations of \"crazy wisdom\" in various cultures.\n\nIn scenarios of this kind a simpleton, a laughing stock in the end wins big, usually a princess or a kingdom, or wealth, or all the above. Brothers Grimm have three tales of a lucky simpleton. \"The Queen Bee\", \"The Three Languages\" and \"The Three Feathers\". In these the fool gets help from animals. The luck of the Russian folk character \"Ivan the Fool\" comes from his simplicity.\n\nWhile some characters are archetypal fools, at the same time, the coordinates \"hero/villain/fool may be seen as major measures of any character. Sometimes these traits mix or boundaries are blurred.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "143366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143366", "title": "Fountain of Youth", "text": "Fountain of Youth\n\nThe Fountain of Youth is a spring that supposedly restores the youth of anyone who drinks or bathes in its waters. Tales of such a fountain have been recounted across the world for thousands of years, appearing in writings by Herodotus (5th century BC), the Alexander romance (3rd century AD), and the stories of Prester John (early Crusades, 11th/12th centuries AD). Stories of similar waters were also evidently prominent among the indigenous peoples of the Caribbean during the Age of Exploration (early 16th century), who spoke of the restorative powers of the water in the mythical land of Bimini.\n\nThe legend became particularly prominent in the 16th century, when it was attached to the Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de León, first Governor of Puerto Rico. According to an apocryphal combination of New World and Eurasian elements, Ponce de León was searching for the Fountain of Youth when he traveled to what is now Florida in 1513. The legend says that Ponce de León was told by Native Americans that the Fountain of Youth was in Bimini and it could restore youth to anyone.\n\nHerodotus mentions a fountain containing a special kind of water in the land of the Macrobians, which gives the Macrobians their exceptional longevity.\n\nA story of the \"Water of Life\" appears in the Eastern versions of the Alexander romance, which describes Alexander the Great and his servant crossing the Land of Darkness to find the restorative spring. The servant in that story is in turn derived from Middle Eastern legends of Al-Khidr, a sage who appears also in the Qur'an. Arabic and Aljamiado versions of the \"Alexander Romance\" were very popular in Spain during and after the period of Moorish rule, and would have been known to the explorers who journeyed to America. These earlier accounts inspired the popular medieval fantasy \"The Travels of Sir John Mandeville\", which also mentions the Fountain of Youth as located at the foot of a mountain outside Polombe (modern Kollam) in India. Due to the influence of these tales, the Fountain of Youth legend was popular in courtly Gothic art, appearing for example on the ivory Casket with Scenes of Romances (Walters 71264) and several ivory mirror-cases, and remained popular through the European Age of Exploration.\nEuropean iconography is fairly consistent, as the Cranach painting and mirror-case from 200 years earlier demonstrate: old people, often carried, enter at left, strip, and enter a pool that is as large as space allows. The people in the pool are youthful and naked, and after a while they leave it, and are shown fashionably dressed enjoying a courtly party, sometimes including a meal.\n\nThere are countless indirect sources for the tale as well. Eternal youth is a gift frequently sought in myth and legend, and stories of things such as the philosopher's stone, universal panaceas, and the elixir of life are common throughout Eurasia and elsewhere. An additional hint may have been taken from the account of the Pool of Bethesda in the Gospel of John, in which Jesus heals a man at the pool in Jerusalem.\n\nAccording to legend, the Spanish heard of Bimini from the Arawaks in Hispaniola, Cuba, and Puerto Rico. The Caribbean islanders described a mythical land of \"Beimeni\" or \"Beniny\" (whence Bimini), a land of wealth and prosperity, which became conflated with the fountain legend. By the time of Ponce de Leon, the land was thought to be located northwest towards the Bahamas (called \"la Vieja\" during the Ponce expedition). The natives were probably referring to the area occupied by the Maya. This land also became confused with the Boinca or Boyuca mentioned by Juan de Solis, although Solis's navigational data placed it in the Gulf of Honduras. It was this Boinca that originally held a legendary fountain of youth, rather than Bimini itself. Sequene, an Arawak chief from Cuba, purportedly was unable to resist the lure of Bimini and its restorative fountain. He gathered a troupe of adventurers and sailed north, never to return.\n\nFound within the salt water mangrove swamp that covers of the shoreline of North Bimini is \"The Healing Hole\", a pool that lies at the end of a network of winding underground tunnels. During outgoing tides, these channels pump cool, mineral-laden fresh water into the pool. Because this well was carved out of the limestone rock by ground water thousands of years ago it is especially high in calcium and magnesium. Magnesium, which has been shown to improve longevity and reproductive health, is present in large quantities in the sea water. While it is not known whether any legend about healing waters was widespread among the indigenous peoples of the Caribbean, the Italian-born chronicler Peter Martyr attached such a story drawn from ancient and medieval European sources to his account of the 1514 voyage of Juan Diaz de Solis in a letter to the pope in 1516, though he did not believe the stories and was dismayed that so many others did. \n\nIn the 16th century the story of the Fountain of Youth became attached to the biography of the conquistador Juan Ponce de León. As attested by his royal charter, Ponce de León was charged with discovering the land of \"Beniny\". Although the indigenous peoples were probably describing the land of the Maya in Yucatán, the nameand legends about Boinca's fountain of youthbecame associated with the Bahamas instead. However, Ponce de León did not mention the fountain in any of his writings throughout the course of his expedition.\n\nThe connection was made in Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo's \"Historia general y natural de las Indias\" of 1535, in which he wrote that Ponce de León was looking for the waters of Bimini to regain youthfulness. Some researchers have suggested that Oviedo's account may have been politically inspired to generate favor in the courts. A similar account appears in Francisco López de Gómara's \"Historia general de las Indias\" of 1551. In the \"Memoir\" of Hernando d'Escalante Fontaneda in 1575, the author places the restorative waters in Florida and mentions de León looking for them there; his account influenced Antonio de Herrera y Tordesillas' unreliable history of the Spanish in the New World. Fontaneda had spent seventeen years as an Indian captive after being shipwrecked in Florida as a boy. In his \"Memoir\" he tells of the curative waters of a lost river he calls \"Jordan\" and refers to de León looking for it. However, Fontaneda makes it clear he is skeptical about these stories he includes, and says he doubts de León was actually looking for the fabled stream when he came to Florida.\n\nHerrera makes that connection definite in the romanticized version of Fontaneda's story included in his \"Historia general de los hechos de los Castellanos en las islas y tierra firme del Mar Oceano\". Herrera states that local caciques paid regular visits to the fountain. A frail old man could become so completely restored that he could resume \"all manly exercises … take a new wife and beget more children.\" Herrera adds that the Spaniards had unsuccessfully searched every \"river, brook, lagoon or pool\" along the Florida coast for the legendary fountain.\n\nThe city of St. Augustine, Florida, is home to the Fountain of Youth Archaeological Park, a tribute to the spot where Ponce de León was supposed to have landed according to promotional literature, although there is no historical or archaeological evidence to support the claim. There were several instances of the property being used as an attraction as early as the 1860s; the tourist attraction in its present form was created by Luella Day McConnell in 1904. Having abandoned her practice as a physician in Chicago and gone to the Yukon during the Klondike gold rush of the 1890s, she purchased the Park property in 1904 from Henry H. Williams, a British horticulturalist, with cash and diamonds, for which she became known in St. Augustine as \"Diamond Lil\". Around the year 1909 she began advertising the attraction, charging admission, and selling post cards and water from a well dug in 1875 for Williams by Philip Gomez and Philip Capo. McConnell later claimed to have \"discovered\" on the grounds a large cross made of coquina rock, asserting it was placed there by Ponce de León himself. She continued to fabricate stories to amuse and appall the city's residents and tourists until her death in a car accident in 1927. \n\nWalter B. Fraser, a transplant from Georgia who managed McConnell's attraction, then bought the property and made it one of the state's most successful tourist attractions. The first archaeological digs at the Fountain of Youth were performed in 1934 by the Smithsonian Institution. These digs produced a large number of Christianized Timucua burials. These burials eventually pointed to the Park as the location of the first Christian mission in the United States. Called the Mission Nombre de Dios, this mission was begun by Franciscan friars in 1587. Succeeding decades have seen the unearthing of items which positively identify the Park as the location of Pedro Menéndez de Avilés's 1565 settlement of St. Augustine, the oldest continuously inhabited European settlement in North America. The park currently exhibits native and colonial artifacts to celebrate St. Augustine's Timucua and Spanish heritage.\n\n"}
{"id": "51442564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51442564", "title": "Fullmetal Alchemist (film)", "text": "Fullmetal Alchemist (film)\n\nFullmetal Alchemist is a 2017 Japanese dark fantasy science fiction adventure film directed by Fumihiko Sori, starring Ryosuke Yamada, Tsubasa Honda and Dean Fujioka and based on the manga series of the same name by Hiromu Arakawa, covering the first four volumes of the original storyline. It was released in Japan by Warner Bros. on 1 December 2017. The theme song of the film, \"Kimi no Soba ni Iru yo\", is performed by Misia.\n\nIn the country of Amestris, Edward Elric and his younger brother Alphonse live in the rural town of Resembool with their mother Trisha while self-learning alchemy at a young age. When the brothers commit the taboo act of Human Transmutation to resurrect Trisha after she dies of illness, it backfires and they suffer the consequences via the Law of Equivalent Exchange: Edward loses his left leg, while Alphonse is dragged into the Gate of Truth. Edward then sacrifices his right arm to save his brother's soul and bind it to a suit of armor via a blood seal, later replacing his missing limbs with \"automail\" prosthetics. Edward later receives an invitation by Colonel Roy Mustang to join the military so he can research a means of restoring Alphonse's body. After becoming a State Alchemist with the title \"Fullmetal Alchemist\", accompanied by their childhood friend and Automail mechanic Winry Rockwell, Edward begins his quest with Alphonse to find the legendary philosopher's stone which could repair their bodies.\n\nYears later, Edward and Alphonse confront a cultist named Father Cornello, whom they believe is using a philosopher's stone to recruit the people of Liore. As Mustang arrives to personally handle the situation, Edward exposes Cornello while the stone is revealed to be a fake. After reaching East City and spending the night at the home of Major Maes Hughes and his pregnant wife, the brothers are provided with lodging when Major General Hakuro introduces them to Shou Tucker, a bio-alchemy authority who obtained his State Alchemist credentials by creating a talking chimera. As the brothers become fast friends with the man's young daughter Nina and their dog Alexander, Tucker suggests Edward to find Dr. Tim Marcoh as he created a philosopher's stone prior to going into hiding. Alphonse remains behind to be examined by Tucker, who causes Alphonse to question his existence, while Edward and Winry head to Marcoh's last known whereabouts.\n\nThough Marcoh was murdered by Cornello's benefactor Lust as he and Winry find him, Edward acquires the man's notes and asks Hughes to decipher them while unknowingly alienating Alphonse to keep him safe. Hughes later makes a horrific discovery from his investigation and ends up being killed by Lust's associate Envy, who assumes Mustang's form to frame the colonel for the murder. Edward manages to escape being interrogated with help from Mustang's aide Lieutenant Riza Hawkeye, using what he could deduce from the notes to investigate the clandestine Fifth Laboratory. At the same time, after revealing the new talking chimera that he created from Nina and Alexander, Tucker forces Alphonse and Winry to accompany him to the Fifth Laboratory, where they find Edward as he verbally realizes that the Philosopher's Stone is created from humans.\n\nTucker confirms Edward's realization, justifying their respective actions of selfishly manipulating life before Lust kills him while revealing herself as a homunculus. After Lust cryptically hints of her group's reach in the government and an upcoming event that Edward has a vital role in, Hakuro reveals the Mannequin Soldier homunculi and gets killed when he prematurely activates them. Mustang has Riza and their men keep the Mannequin Soldiers from flooding out of the laboratory while he confronts Lust and Envy, killing the former while ripping her philosopher's stone core from her body. While Mustang gives Edward the stone so he can restore Alphonse, Edward instead uses it to appear before his brother's body and promises to find another way to restore him. Edward then returns to his reality to reaffirm Alphonse's existence to him. Sometime after, as Gluttony mourns Lust's death, Envy is revealed to have survived Mustang's attack but has been diminished to its true parasitic form as a result.\n\n\nThe film was originally planned to be produced in 2013 but because of low budget and also technology, it was delayed until it was officially announced for production in May 2016. According to the director's press conference in March 2017:\n\nOn adapting the source material, Fumihiko Sori said, \"I want to create a style that follows the original manga as much as possible. The cast is entirely Japanese, but the cultural background is Europe. However, it's a style that doesn't represent a specific race or country.\" Regarding the faithfulness of the adaptation, which has characters of non-Japanese ethnicity, the director said, \"There will never be a scene in which a character says something that would identify him/her as Japanese.\"\n\nSori told Oricon he has a deep affection for the story that tells the \"truth of living,\" and said, \"It is my dearest wish to turn this wonderful story into a film, and it is not an exaggeration to say that I am living for this reason.\" He added that he \"wants to create a wonderful film that uses techniques that challenge Hollywood,\" and noted that nowadays Japanese filmmaking techniques have progressed greatly.\nOn 19 February 2018, the film released on Netflix as a Netflix Original Film.\n\nPrincipal photography took place in Italy. Shooting was spotted in Volterra on the first week of June and some scenes continued filming in Japan from June and finished on 26 August 2016.\n\nJapanese VFX company OXYBOT inc. provided the visual effects for the film.\n\nThe film received mostly mixed reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film received a 42% approval rating based on 12 reviews, with an average rating of 5.8/10. On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating to reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 48 out of 100, based on 5 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nIn July 2017, Sori and Yamada said a sequel was in development.\n\n"}
{"id": "45152640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45152640", "title": "Future generation", "text": "Future generation\n\nFuture generation or Future generations refers to the generation or generations to come in the future, after the currently living generations of humans. The future generation is contrasted with past generations or generations past. \n\nThe term started to be used in reference to the impact the currently living generations have on the world future generations will live in, the world they'll inherit from humans living today. \nCurrent generations have a moral obligation to provide for sustainable living conditions not just to the future of their own children (cf. Think of the children) but indirectly also to the future of their children's children.\nThis is referred to in the most widely quoted definition of sustainability as a part of the concept sustainable development, is that of the Brundtland Commission of the United Nations on March 20, 1987: “sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.”\n\n"}
{"id": "18141105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18141105", "title": "Get Smart's Bruce and Lloyd: Out of Control", "text": "Get Smart's Bruce and Lloyd: Out of Control\n\nGet Smart's Bruce and Lloyd: Out of Control is a direct-to-video film released in 2008. It is a spin-off of the 2008 film \"Get Smart\" and was released in North America on July 1, 2008, 11 days after the parent film began its theatrical run. Directed by Gil Junger, the film is written by Tom J. Astle and Matt Ember, based upon concepts created for the original \"Get Smart\" TV series by Mel Brooks and Buck Henry. The film's DVD sales have passed 100,000 copies with $2.2 million gross.\n\nThis film takes place during the events of \"Get Smart\". Bruce and Lloyd have been testing out an invisibility cloak, but during a party, Maraguayan agent Isabella steals it for El Presidente. Now, Bruce and Lloyd must find the cloak on their own because the only non-compromised agents, Agent 99 and Agent 86 (Max Smart), are in Russia. With no field experience, Bruce and Lloyd must learn how to get a girl and infiltrate the Maraguayan Embassy to prevent Maraguay from selling the cloak to KAOS.\n\nThe film includes a cameo by Anne Hathaway as Agent 99 (a scene that makes reference to events in the main film), Terry Crews as Agent 91, and a brief appearance by Patrick Warburton as Hymie. Larry Miller plays a dual role as the \"Underchief\" in charge of the R&D department, and his twin brother, a CIA official (Miller appears as the CIA official in the theatrical film). The closing credits incorporate bloopers and deleted scenes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25672641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25672641", "title": "Grange Furniture", "text": "Grange Furniture\n\nGrange Furniture is a furniture shop in Monts du Lyonnais, France that was established by Joseph Grange in 1904. The company continues to produce heirlooms using \"old-world techniques\" such as dove-tail jointing, hand applied wood stain and lacquer. Designs are \"subtle updates\" based on the \"feminine shapes\" used in 17th Century chateux furniture by André-Charles Boulle and Jean-François Oeben, or other furniture from historic Provence, France homes. A five-foot cherrywood corner cabinet cost about $6,000 in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7146201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7146201", "title": "Greenhouse Schools Project", "text": "Greenhouse Schools Project\n\nGreenhouse Sports aims to develop social, thinking, emotional and physical skills for young people in London’s communities through sports programmes delivered by coaches.\n\nGreenhouse Sports (originally Greenhouse Schools Project and then later Greenhouse Charity) was founded in 2002 when Chief Executive and founder, Michael de Giorgio, set up a multisports pilot to give young people on a local housing estate something positive to do in the school holidays. In 2004 the organisation then moved their programmes full-time into schools.\n"}
{"id": "8046879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8046879", "title": "HEVT", "text": "HEVT\n\nThe Hybrid Electric Vehicle Team of Virginia Tech, better known as HEVT, is a nationally recognized undergraduate student design team in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at Virginia Tech. HEVT was formed in 1994 to compete in the 1995 Hybrid Electric Vehicle (HEV) Challenge, one of the many competitions organized by the Argonne National Laboratory through the United States Department of Energy. HEVT has been involved in the Department of Energy Advanced Vehicle Technology Competitions (AVTCs) ever since. HEVT attributes a significant amount of its success to their Advisor, Professor Doug Nelson in Mechanical Engineering. Dr. Nelson has received the Outstanding Faculty Advisor award at competition 3 times. He has greatly aided the education of students at Virginia Tech and helped the team succeed at competition The overall highlights of past competitions are as follows:\n\nHEVT devotes time each month to community outreach, in which they provide the community with information about sustainability, hybrid technology, AVTCS and the team. Outreach events target youth, community members, influencers, other students and the media. A few of HEVT's outreach events that have occurred within the past few years include National Odyssey Day, EcoDrive, Relay for Life and Innovation under the Hood.\n\nVirginia Tech's HEVT placed first in the 1996 challenge held in Detroit. In 1996 HEVT also received awards for best workmanship, most energy efficient vehicle, lowest regulated tailpipe emissions, best use of alternative fuels, and overall best dynamic handling. The 1996 vehicle was based on a 1995 Chevrolet Lumina, donated through PNGV, which utilized a General Electric electric motor, a three-cylinder Geo Metro engine, and a large battery pack. The vehicle, fueled by propane, could go 600 miles without refueling while getting between 40 and 50 mpgge (Crumbley 1996).\n\nHEVT placed second in the 1997 competition (UW 1997).\n\nHEVT tied with the University of Wisconsin team for first place in the 1998 FutureCar Challenge (Launey 1998). That year HEVT also won awards for best consumer acceptability, best vehicle design inspection, best acceleration, best dynamic handling, best overall engineering design, and best solo autocross (ECE News 1998).\n\nDuring the 1999 FutureCar Challenge, HEVT's entry became the first vehicle during the competition series to operate as a functional hydrogen fuel cell vehicle; at the time the vehicle was considered to be one of only a handful of operable fuel cell vehicles in the world (Lypen 1999). The fuel cell used in the vehicle was provided by the U. S. Department of Defense and carried a price tag of $250,000 USD (VT Magazine 1999). This 1999 entry was based on a 1998 Chevrolet Lumina and was designed as a series hybrid operating with the hydrogen fuel cell, a custom built lead acid battery, and an AC induction motor drivetrain. HEVT placed second in the 1999 competition.\n\nAfter the 1999 competition series ended, the FutureCar program was replaced with the FutureTruck program. The FutureTruck program was created to address the environmental and energy related issues created by the increased demand of SUV's in the United States. Fifteen engineering schools from across North America were accepted as the participants in this five-year engineering program. The goal of the competition was to re-engineer a popular SUV to a lower emissions vehicle with an improvement of at least 25% in fuel economy. Each entrant vehicle also was required to meet safety, performance, and utility goals. Main sponsors of the FutureTruck program include the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of Efficiency and Renewable Energy, General Motors, and the Ford Motor Company. The program was managed by Argonne National Laboratory's Center for Transportation Research (FutureTruck).\n\nHEVT had only five months to complete the conversion of their 2000 FutureTruck entry vehicle based on a stock Chevy Suburban. This entry from Virginia Tech won first place at the 2000 competition which began on June 7, 2000. The 2000 FutureTruck competition was held at the General Motors Desert Proving Grounds in Mesa, Arizona.\n\nDuring the 2002 competition, HEVT was awarded the MathWorks Teamwork & Leadership Award.\n\nDuring the 2003 competition, HEVT was awarded the Spirit of the Challenge Award, and also received a third place award in the National Instruments Most Innovative Use of Virtual Instrumentation category.\n\nChallenge X: Crossover to Sustainable Mobility was a design competition completed in the Spring of 2008.\n\nHEVT placed Fourth in the first year of the Challenge X competition series (Sharp), First in the second year, Third in the third year, and eighth in the final year. Problems with heavy rains and the Belted Alternator Starter motor (BAS) caused the team to place lower than anticipated in the fourth year.\n\nIn the second year of the Challenge X competition, HEVT was the first place team (Gurski). Virginia Tech's competition entry, the REV (Renewable Energy Vehicle, the Larsen Special Edition) is a split parallel hybrid using a Ballard Ranger 67 kW ACI rear traction motor, an 8 kW MES belted alternator starter, and a Saab 2.0 L Flex Fuel SI engine running on E85 – an ethanol/gas blend. Virginia Tech also won first place in lowest well-to-wheels petroleum energy usage, with an overall reduction of petroleum consumption of 74 percent over the stock vehicle, best written technical reports, lowest regulated tailpipe emissions, and lowest time braking and handling (Challenge X).\n\nEcoCAR: The NeXt Challenge competition was completed in Spring of 2011. The following is cut from the EcoCAR website:\n\n\"EcoCAR seeks to advance the level of vehicle technology capable of reducing petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions while demonstrating the real-world performance of a range of technology options.\"\n\nThis is the main goal of the EcoCAR competition. General Motors donatated a crossover SUV to the team to use as a base vehicle.\n\nHEVT is using a 4-cylinder, 2.4L E85-capable engine from a Chevrolet HHR to power a 4-speed automatic transmission from a Saturn Vue Green Line. This engine powers the front axle and acts as a range extender for the extended-range electric vehicle. The \"VT-REX\" vehicle has about a 45-mile all-electric range using a custom A123 Systems battery to power a Siemens electric traction drive capable of about 80 kW of power. Since HEVT will have a large electric range with engine off operation, the air conditioning compressor will work off of high voltage and a DC-DC converter will create about 13.8 V from the high voltage bus to power the 12V accessory loads.\n\nIn 2009, HEVT placed 6th overall in the design year of competition. The Year 1 EcoCAR competition focused on hardware-in-the-loop simulation modeling of the design, and creating predictions of performance and fuel economy. The team placed first in the overall competition.\n\n was a three-year collegiate engineering competition. Students were challenged to turn a 2013 Chevrolet Malibu Eco from a \"mundane, mild hybrid\" into an \"incredible hypermilling prototype.\" Competition organizers strove to give participants a real-world, hands-on experience that would prepare them for the workforce. As of 2014, approximately 100 of General Motors's engineers had participated in EcoCAR or previous competitions. HEVT placed sixth in the overall competition.\n\nEcoCAR 3 HEVT is currently taking part in EcoCAR 3 a competition in which teams have four years to redesign, rebuild and refine a Chevrolet Camaro into a hybrid electric vehicle.\n\nHEVT earned second place in the year 1 final competition. EcoCAR 3 organizers evaluated each team on all of the required pre-competition deliverables, including a facility inspection,high voltage safety demonstration, an architecture selection proposal, and in-depth communication, business and engineering plans. The team won second place in the Stakeholder Status and Electrical presentations and third in the mechanical presentations\nThis fall (2015) HEVT enters the second year of the competition.\n\nThe main facilities for HEVT are located on the Virginia Tech campus in the Ware Lab. HEVT consistently participates in industry sponsored design events and is committed to the development and implementation of advanced vehicle technologies leading to green transportation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28938198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28938198", "title": "Julepe", "text": "Julepe\n\nJulepe (), (, also the variety \"Xulepe\" and \"Gilen\".), is a gambling card game of Spanish origin, similar to the English five-card Loo, and best for six players. It spread rapidly across the Spanish-American countries during the 19th century.\n\nJulepe is a variant of Tute and one of the many games of the tute family, and the game is played according to the same rules of tute. It is noted that the original Julepe, in which game three cards are dealt to each player, is the card game presently known as Tomate.\n\nFive cards are dealt to each player from a 40-card pack lacking 8s, 9s, and 10s. The next card is turned up for trumps. Players may pass or play. Those who play must win at least two tricks, but may first discard and draw any number of replacements.\n\nTo win a game, a player should have the highest value trump card at play, non-trump card, or the highest card of the suit played by the first player. At least two tricks should be gained in game in order to gain chips toward your pot . If the opponent makes less than one, the chips wagered by this player will be subtracted from his pot. Most importantly, the name of the game is to \"hacer julepe\" or \"Make the whist,\" i.e. winning at least two tricks during the game, as is the bare minimum.\n\nIn each game, each player should play a card, and the one who plays the highest one wins the round and the wagers from that first round, keeping in mind:\n\na) if the first player to play a card has the Ace of the trump suit, it is recommended that it be played. Otherwise, you should Divide the Pot, since with this action you Force the other players to play a trump card for this round.\n\nb) if the first player leads with a card different from the trump suit, the other players are Forced to continue playing that suit. If the player is found to have played incorrectly, that player is forced to split the pot, which is also punishable by Falling, or, in the instance that the player does not have that suit, a trump card must be played. If the player has neither of the former cards, any card can be played.\n\nc) if all the cards are of the same suit, the player with the highest value card wins.\n\nd) if the round has begun with a suit different from the trump and a trump card is played subsequently, and the other players after the one who played the trump card are NOT required to play the trump, thus allowing them to play any card.\n\nPrior to beginning the game, cards are dealt to each player face-up, one-by-one around the table, until the first Coin suit (palo de Oro) card appears. The player whom receives this card is deemed the first dealer. The order of play is determined by the person to the dealer's RIGHT in the next round. The dealer deals 5 cards and selects the type of game that shall be played, being either a Normal Wager or a Blind Wager game. Depending on the type of game selected, the wager should be defined before beginning to deal and the players should place the same bet before receiving his/her cards. Following this, three cards are dealt to each player.\n\nAfter having dealt, the deck is placed in the middle of the table and the top card is flipped. The suit of this first card is thus considered the Trump suit, or \"triunfo,\" and any card of this suit automatically beats any card from another suit, despite its value. If the flipped trump card is an Ace or a Three, the player that deals can take this card, without seeing your cards. This player is called the \"postre\" (lit. dessert) of the game. The \"postre\" takes the trump with the condition that the dealer win three tricks \"tres bazos\", as opposed to merely \"hacer julepe\". Otherwise, the dealer will Fall for not having met this condition at the end of the round.\n\nNow is where the real game begins. The player to the RIGHT of the dealer decides if he passes or plays, and every player afterward follows suit, until the round is over. If the decision to pass or play falls on the dealer, and if no player has selected to play, the dealer deals again and the dealer repeats the round. If only one player decides to play, the Widow is offered, first to the Fallen. If the Fallen player does not agree, the Widow is offered to the rest of the players, starting with the player RIGHT of the dealer. If no one wants the Widow, the player should play against the dealer. Within those players that decided to play, the first one to the RIGHT of the dealer plays a card first. The next player to his RIGHT plays a card, attempting to beat the previously played card, playing a card of the same suit or, if you have no cards from that suit, a trump card. The player that wins the first hand has thus won a trick, and three hands are to be played this way. (One card=One hand) If a player that chose to play did not win, did not meet the his bid, or the Widow, or chooses to divide the pot, this player falls.\n\nThe dealer deals three cards face-down to each player and each player is forced to play this round. The player RIGHT of the dealer starts the round, placing his card on the table. According to who wins this hand, that player begins the next round. The game is played like this until the whole game is played through. All the players whom did not win are considered Fallen.\n\nWhen only one player elects to play (while all other players have elected to pass), the Widow is offered to the other players, which are required to meet the amount of Widows they bid. (A Widow=Three Cards=Three Hands)\n\nIt is when a player did not meet the bid made previously, with a Widow, or did not win any hands. This player must place an amount equal to the total amount of wagers made in that round into the collective wager pot. (Example: If three players played and bid 3 chips, the Fallen places 9 chips into the pot) All the Fallen must place this quantity of chips into the pot, absolving the other players from betting.\n\nYou divide the pot when you do not play according to the rules and hence distribute the collected wager pot between the winners.\n\nCondition that forces you to play a card, as long as it is the same as the card thrown initially or not having to play a same-suit card if a trump suit is played before you.\n\nThe dealer is always allowed to force, forcing other players to play a face card (jack, horse, or king). The face card is taken and another card is discarded. The one who has forced, is forced himself to win at least 2 tricks.\n\n"}
{"id": "89074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89074", "title": "Kakapo", "text": "Kakapo\n\nThe kakapo (Māori: kākāpō) or \"night parrot\", also called owl parrot (\"Strigops habroptila\"), is a species of large, flightless, nocturnal, ground-dwelling parrot of the super-family Strigopoidea, endemic to New Zealand.\n\nIt has finely blotched yellow-green plumage, a distinct facial disc of sensory, vibrissa-like feathers, a large grey beak, short legs, large feet, and wings and a tail of relatively short length. A combination of traits make it unique among its kind; it is the world's only flightless parrot, the heaviest parrot, nocturnal, herbivorous, visibly sexually dimorphic in body size, has a low basal metabolic rate and no male parental care, and is the only parrot to have a polygynous lek breeding system. It is also possibly one of the world's longest-living birds. \n\nIts anatomy typifies the tendency of bird evolution on oceanic islands, with few predators and abundant food: a generally robust physique, with accretion of thermodynamic efficiency at the expense of flight abilities, reduced wing muscles, and a diminished keel on the sternum. Like many other New Zealand bird species, the kakapo was historically important to the Māori, the indigenous people of New Zealand, appearing in many of their traditional legends and folklore; however it was also heavily hunted and used as a resource by Māori, both for its meat as a food source and for its feathers, which were used to make highly valued pieces of clothing. Kakapos were also occasionally kept as pets.\n\nThe kakapo is critically endangered; as of August 2018, the total known adult population was living individuals, as reported by the Kakapo Recovery programme, most of which have been given names. Because of Polynesian and European colonisation and the introduction of predators such as cats, rats, ferrets, and stoats, the kakapo was almost wiped out. Conservation efforts began in the 1890s, but they were not very successful until the implementation of the Kakapo Recovery plan in the 1980s. \n\nAs of April 2012, surviving kakapo are kept on three predator-free islands, Codfish (Whenua Hou), Anchor and Little Barrier islands, where they are closely monitored. Two large Fiordland islands, Resolution and Secretary, have been the subject of large-scale ecological restoration activities to create self-sustaining ecosystems with suitable habitats for the kakapo.\n\nThe kakapo was originally described by English ornithologist George Robert Gray in 1845. The common English name \"kakapo\" comes from the Māori language, where it is now spelled \"kākāpō\"; from \"kākā\" (\"parrot\") + \"pō\" (\"night\"). Its generic name \"Strigops\" is derived from the Ancient Greek \"strix\", genitive \"strigos\" \"owl\", and \"ops\" \"face\", while its specific epithet \"habroptila\" comes from \"habros\" \"soft\", and \"ptilon\" \"feather\". The bird has so many unusual features that it was initially placed in its own tribe, Strigopini. Recent phylogenetic studies have confirmed the unique position of this genus as well as the closeness to the kākā and the kea, both belonging to the New Zealand parrot genus \"Nestor\". Together, they are now considered a separate superfamily within the parrots, Strigopoidea. \n\nWithin the Strigopoidea, the kakapo is placed in its own family, Strigopidae. The common ancestor of the kakapo and the genus \"Nestor\" became isolated from the remaining parrot species when New Zealand broke off from Gondwana, around 82 million years ago. Around 70 million years ago, the kakapo diverged from the genus \"Nestor\".\n\nEarlier ornithologists felt that the kakapo might be related to the ground parrots and night parrot of Australia due to their similar colouration, but this is contradicted by recent studies; rather, the cryptic colour seems to be adaptation to terrestrial habits that evolved twice convergently.\n\nThe kakapo is a large, rotund parrot; the adult can measure from in length, and weight can vary from at maturity. Males are larger than females. Twenty-eight males were found to average in one study, and 39 males were found to average in another. In the same studies, 28 females were found to average and 18 females were found to average , respectively. Kakapos are the heaviest living species of parrot and on average weigh about more than the largest flying parrot, the hyacinth macaw. \n\nThe kakapo cannot fly, having relatively short wings for its size and lacking the keel on the sternum (breastbone), where the flight muscles of other birds attach. It uses its wings for balance and to break its fall when leaping from trees. Unlike many other land birds, the kakapo can accumulate large amounts of body fat.\n\nThe upper parts of the kakapo have yellowish moss-green feathers barred or mottled with black or dark brownish grey, blending well with native vegetation. Individuals may have strongly varying degrees of mottling and colour tone and intensity – museum specimens show that some birds had completely yellow colouring. The breast and flank are yellowish-green streaked with yellow. The belly, undertail, neck, and face are predominantly yellowish streaked with pale green and weakly mottled with brownish-grey. Because the feathers do not need the strength and stiffness required for flight, they are exceptionally soft, giving rise to the specific epithet \"habroptilus\". The kakapo has a conspicuous facial disc of fine feathers resembling the face of an owl; thus, early European settlers called it the \"owl parrot\". The beak is surrounded by delicate vibrissae or \"whiskers\", which the bird uses to sense the ground for navigation as it walks with its head lowered. The mandible is mostly ivory-coloured, with part of the upper mandible being bluish-grey. The eyes are dark brown. Kakapo feet are large, scaly, and, as in all parrots, zygodactyl (two toes face forward and two backward). The pronounced claws are particularly useful for climbing. The ends of the tail feathers often become worn from being continually dragged on the ground.\n\nFemales are easily distinguished from males as they have a narrower and less domed head, narrower and proportionally longer beak, smaller cere and nostrils, more slender and pinkish grey legs and feet, and proportionally longer tail. While their plumage colour is not very different from that of the male, the toning is more subtle, with less yellow and mottling. They tend to resist more and be more aggressive than the male when handled. Nesting females also have a brood patch on the bare skin of the belly.\n\nThe kakapo's altricial young are first covered with greyish white down, through which their pink skin can be easily seen. They then become fully feathered at approximately 70 days of age, when they fledge. Juvenile individuals tend to have duller green coloration, more uniform black barring, and less yellow present in their feathers. They are additionally distinguishable because of their shorter tails, wings, and beaks. At this stage, they have a ring of short feathers surrounding their irises that resemble eyelashes.\n\nLike many other parrots, kakapos have a variety of calls. As well as the \"booms\" (see below for a recording) and \"chings\" of their mating calls, they will often loudly \"skraark\" to announce their location to other birds.\n\nThe kakapo has a well-developed sense of smell, which complements its nocturnal lifestyle. It can distinguish between odours while foraging, a behaviour reported in only one other parrot species. The kakapo has a large olfactory bulb ratio (longest diameter of the olfactory bulb/longest diameter of the brain) indicating that it does, indeed, have a more developed sense of smell than other parrots. One of the most striking characteristics of the kakapo is its distinct musty-sweet odour. Given their well-developed sense of smell, this odour may be a pheromone. The smell often alerts predators to the presence of kakapos.\n\nAs a nocturnal species, the kakapo has adapted its senses to living in darkness. Its optic tectum, nucleus rotundus, and entopallium are smaller in relation to its overall brain size than those of diurnal parrots. Its retina shares some qualities with that of other nocturnal birds but also has some qualities typical of diurnal birds, lending to best function around twilight. These modifications allow the kakapo to have enhanced light sensitivity but with poor visual acuity.\n\nThe skeleton of the kakapo differs from other parrots in several features associated with flightlessness. Firstly, it has the smallest relative wing size of any parrot. Its wing feathers are shorter, more rounded, less asymmetrical, and have fewer distal barbules to lock the feathers together. The sternum is small and has a low, vestigial keel and a shortened spina externa. As in other flightless birds and some flighted parrots, the furcula is not fused but consists of a pair of clavicles lying in contact with each coracoid. As in other flightless birds, the angle between the coracoid and sternum is enlarged. The kakapo has a larger pelvis than other parrots. The proximal bones of the leg and arm are disproportionately long and the distal elements are disproportionately short.\n\nThe pectoral musculature of the kakapo is also modified by flightlessness. The pectoralis and supracoracoideus muscles are greatly reduced. The propatagialis tendo longus has no distinct muscle belly. The sternocoracoideus is tendinous. There is an extensive cucularis capitis clavicularis muscle that is associated with the large crop.\n\nIt seems that the kakapo – like many of New Zealand's bird species – has evolved to occupy an ecological niche normally filled by various species of mammal (the only non-marine mammals native to New Zealand are ). Before the arrival of humans, the kakapo was distributed throughout the three main islands of New Zealand. It lived in a variety of habitats, including tussocklands, scrublands and coastal areas. It also inhabited forests dominated by podocarps (rimu, matai, kahikatea, totara), beeches, tawa, and rata. In Fiordland, areas of avalanche and slip debris with regenerating and heavily fruiting vegetation – such as five finger, wineberry, bush lawyer, tutu, hebes, and coprosmas – became known as \"kakapo gardens\".\n\nThe kakapo is considered to be a \"habitat generalist\". Though they are now confined to islands free of predation, they were once able to live in nearly any climate present on the islands of New Zealand. They survived dry, hot summers on the North Island as well as cold winter temperatures in the sub-alpine areas of Fiordland. Kakapos were mostly found in the areas adjacent to dense, temperate rainforests, but the species was not exclusively forest-dwelling. All kakapo that were transferred to predator-free islands in the last decades have adapted well to any changes in environment and food plants.\n\nThe kakapo is primarily nocturnal; it roosts under cover in trees or on the ground during the day and moves around its territories at night.\n\nThough the kakapo cannot fly, it is an excellent climber, ascending to the crowns of the tallest trees. It can also \"parachute\" – descending by leaping and spreading its wings. In this way it may travel a few metres at an angle of less than 45 degrees. With only 3.3% of its mass made up of pectoral muscle, it is no surprise that the kakapo cannot use its wings to lift its heavy body off the ground. Because of its flightlessness, it has very low metabolic demands in comparison to flighted birds. It is able to survive easily on very little or on very low quality food sources. Unlike most other bird species, the kakapo is entirely herbivorous, feeding on fruits, seeds, leaves, stems, and rhizomes. The sex ratio of kakapo offspring is dependent on the diet of the mother. Higher protein diets tend to lead to higher percentages of males among the offspring. When foraging, kakapo tend to leave crescent-shaped wads of fiber in the vegetation behind them, called \"browse signs\".\n\nHaving lost the ability to fly, it has developed strong legs. Locomotion is often by way of a rapid \"jog-like\" gait by which it can move several kilometres. A female has been observed making two return trips each night during nesting from her nest to a food source up to away and the male may walk from its home range to a mating arena up to away during the mating season (October–January).\nYoung birds indulge in play fighting, and one bird will often lock the neck of another under its chin. The kakapo is curious by nature and has been known to interact with humans. Conservation staff and volunteers have engaged extensively with some kakapo, which have distinct personalities. While they are curious toward humans, kakapos are extremely asocial around one another. If two individuals encounter one another along their track while searching for food, a fight will inevitably ensue. Even during mating, the male is only hospitable toward the female in that he will not bite her to death during their interaction. After mating, the two mated individuals separate to continue on alone.\n\nThe kakapo was a very successful species in pre-human New Zealand, and one of the reasons for this was their set of adaptations to effectively avoid predation from native birds of prey, which were their only predators in the past. However, these same behaviours have been of no use to them when faced with the mammalian predators which were introduced to New Zealand after human settlement, because these hunt in different ways. As hunters, birds behave very differently from mammals, relying on their powerful vision to find prey, and thus they usually (with the exception of owls) hunt by day. Apart from the two surviving New Zealand raptors, the New Zealand falcon and swamp harrier, there were two other birds of prey in pre-human New Zealand: Haast's eagle and Eyles' harrier. All four species soared overhead searching for prey in daylight, and to avoid these avian predators, the kakapo's ancestors adopted camouflaged plumage and became nocturnal. In addition, when the kakapo feels threatened, it freezes, so that it is more effectively camouflaged in the forest vegetation which their plumage resembles. It was not entirely safe at night, when the laughing owl was active, and it is apparent from their nest deposits on Canterbury limestone cliffs that the kakapo was among their prey.\nMammalian predators, in contrast to birds, rely on their sense of smell and hearing to find prey and often hunt by night. The kakapo's adaptations to avoid avian predation have thus been useless against its new enemies – this is one of the reasons for its massive decline since the introduction of dogs, cats and mustelids – see \"Conservation: Human impact\". A typical way for humans to hunt down the kakapo is by releasing trained dogs.\n\nThe kakapo is the only species of flightless parrot in the world, and the only flightless bird that has a lek breeding system. Males loosely gather in an arena and compete with each other to attract females. Females listen to the males as they display, or \"lek\". They choose a mate based on the quality of his display; they are not pursued by the males in any overt way. No pair bond is formed; males and females meet only to mate.\n\nDuring the courting season, males leave their home ranges for hilltops and ridges where they establish their own mating courts. These leks can be up to from a kakapo's usual territory and are an average of apart within the lek arena. Males remain in the region of their court throughout the courting season. At the start of the breeding season, males will fight to try to secure the best courts. They confront each other with raised feathers, spread wings, open beaks, raised claws and loud screeching and growling. Fighting may leave birds with injuries or even kill them. Mating occurs only approximately every five years, with the ripening of the rimu fruit. In mating years, males making \"booming\" calls for 6–8 hours every night for more than four months.\n\nEach court consists of one or more saucer-shaped depressions or \"bowls\" dug in the ground by the male, up to deep and long enough to fit the half-metre length of the bird. The kakapo is one of only a handful of birds in the world which actually constructs its leks. Bowls are often created next to rock faces, banks, or tree trunks to help reflect sound: the bowls themselves function as amplifiers to enhance the projection of the males' booming mating calls. Each male's bowls are connected by a network of trails or tracks which may extend along a ridge or in diameter around a hilltop. Males meticulously clear their bowls and tracks of debris. One way researchers check whether bowls are visited at night is to place a few twigs in the bowl; if the male visits overnight, he will pick them up in his beak and toss them away.\n\nTo attract females, males make loud, low-frequency (below 100 Hz) booming calls from their bowls by inflating a thoracic sac. They start with low grunts, which increase in volume as the sac inflates. After a sequence of about 20 loud booms, the male kakapo emits a high-frequency, metallic \"ching\" sound. He stands for a short while before again lowering his head, inflating his chest and starting another sequence of booms. The booms can be heard at least away on a still night; wind can carry the sound at least . Males boom for an average of eight hours a night; each male may produce thousands of booms in this time. This may continue every night for three or four months during which time the male may lose half his body weight. Each male moves around the bowls in his court so that the booms are sent out in different directions. These booms are also notorious for attracting predators, because of the long range at which they can be heard.\n\nFemales are attracted by the booms of the competing males; they too may need to walk several kilometres from their territories to the arena. Once a female enters the court of one of the males, the male performs a display in which he rocks from side to side and makes clicking noises with his beak. He turns his back to the female, spreads his wings in display and walks backwards towards her. He will then attempt copulation for 2 to 14 minutes. Once the birds have mated, the female returns to her home territory to lay eggs and raise the chicks. The male continues booming in the hope of attracting another female.\nThe female kakapo lays 1 or 2 eggs (rarely 3) per breeding cycle, with long intervals between laying of first and second eggs. She nests on the ground under the cover of plants or in cavities such as hollow tree trunks. The female incubates the eggs faithfully, but is forced to leave them every night in search of food. Predators are known to eat the eggs and the embryos inside can also die of cold in the mother's absence. Kakapo eggs usually hatch within 30 days, bearing fluffy grey chicks that are quite helpless. After the eggs hatch, the female feeds the chicks for three months, and the chicks remain with the female for some months after fledging. The young chicks are just as vulnerable to predators as the eggs, and young have been killed by many of the same predators that attack adults. Chicks leave the nest at approximately 10 to 12 weeks of age. As they gain greater independence, their mothers may feed the chicks sporadically for up to 6 months.\n\nBecause the kakapo is long-lived, with an average life expectancy of 58 years and the maximum at about 90 years, it tends to have an adolescence before it starts breeding. Males start booming at about 5 years of age. It was thought that females reached sexual maturity at 9 years of age, but this idea was debunked in the 2008 breeding season when two 6-year-old females named Apirama and Rakiura laid eggs. Generally females do not seek out males until they are between 9 and 11 years old. The kakapo does not breed every year and has one of the lowest rates of reproduction among birds. Breeding occurs only in years when trees mast (fruit heavily), providing a plentiful food supply. Rimu mast occurs only every three to five years, so in rimu-dominant forests such as those on Codfish Island, kakapo breeding occurs as infrequently.\n\nAnother aspect of the kakapo's breeding system is that a female can alter the sex ratio of her offspring depending on her condition. A female who eats protein-rich foods produces more male offspring (males have 30%–40% more body weight than females). Females produce offspring biased towards the dispersive sex when competition for resources (such as food) is high and towards the non-dispersive sex when food is plentiful. A female kakapo will likely be able to produce eggs even when there are few resources, while a male kakapo will be more capable of perpetuating the species when there are plenty, by mating with several females. This supports the Trivers–Willard hypothesis. The relationship between clutch sex ratio and maternal diet has conservation implications, because a captive population maintained on a high quality diet will produce fewer females and therefore fewer individuals valuable to the recovery of the species.\n\nThe beak of the kakapo is adapted for grinding food finely. For this reason, the kakapo has a very small gizzard compared to other birds of their size. It is generally herbivorous, eating native plants, seeds, fruits, pollen and even the sapwood of trees. A study in 1984 identified 25 plant species as kakapo food. It is particularly fond of the fruit of the rimu tree, and will feed on it exclusively during seasons when it is abundant. The kakapo has a distinctive habit of grabbing a leaf or frond with a foot and stripping the nutritious parts of the plant out with its beak, leaving a ball of indigestible fibre. These little clumps of plant fibres are a distinctive sign of the presence of the bird. The kakapo is believed to employ bacteria in the fore-gut to ferment and help digest plant matter.\n\nKakapo diet changes according to the season. The plants eaten most frequently during the year include some species of \"Lycopodium ramulosum\", \"Lycopodium fastigium\", \"Schizaea fistulosa\", \"Blechnum minus\", \"Blechnum procerum\", \"Cyathodes juniperina\", \"Dracophyllum longifolium\", \"Olearia colensoi\" and \"Thelymitra venosa\". Individual plants of the same species are often treated differently. Kakapo leave conspicuous evidence of their feeding activities, over feeding areas that range between and per individual. Kakapo feeding grounds almost always host manuka and yellow silver pine (\"Lepidothamnus intermedius\") scrubs.\n\nFossil records indicate that in pre-Polynesian times, the kakapo was New Zealand's third most common bird and it was widespread on all three main islands. However, the kakapo population in New Zealand has declined massively since human settlement of the country. Since 1891, conservation efforts have been made to prevent extinction. The most successful scheme has been the Kakapo Recovery Programme; this was implemented in 1989 and continues.\n\nThe first factor in the decline of the kakapo was the arrival of humans. Māori folklore suggests that the kakapo was found throughout the country when the Polynesians first arrived in Aotearoa 700 years ago. Subfossil and midden deposits show that the bird was present throughout the North Island, South Island and Stewart Island/Rakiura before and during early Māori times. Māori hunted the kakapo for food and for their skins and feathers, which were made into cloaks. They used the dried heads as ear ornaments. \n\nDue to its inability to fly, strong scent and habit of freezing when threatened, the kakapo was easy prey for the Māori and their dogs. Its eggs and chicks were also preyed upon by the Polynesian rat or kiore, which the Māori brought to New Zealand. Furthermore, the deliberate clearing of vegetation by Māori reduced the habitable range for kakapo. Although the kakapo was extinct in many parts of the islands by the time Europeans arrived, including the Tararua and Aorangi Ranges, it was still present in the central part of the North Island and forested parts of the South Island.\n\nBeginning in the 1840s, European settlers cleared vast tracts of land for farming and grazing, further reducing kakapo habitat. They brought more dogs and other mammalian predators, including domestic cats, black rats and stoats. Europeans knew little of the kakapo until George Gray of the British Museum described it from a skin in 1845. As the Māori had done, early European explorers and their dogs ate kakapo. In the late 19th century, the kakapo became well known as a scientific curiosity, and thousands were captured or killed for zoos, museums and collectors. Most captured specimens died within months. From at least the 1870s, collectors knew the kakapo population was declining; their prime concern was to collect as many as possible before the bird became extinct.\n\nIn the 1880s, large numbers of mustelids (stoats, ferrets and weasels) were released in New Zealand to reduce rabbit numbers, but they also preyed heavily on many native species including the kakapo. Other browsing animals, such as introduced deer, competed with the kakapo for food, and caused the extinction of some of its preferred plant species. The kakapo was reportedly still present near the head of the Whanganui River as late as 1894, with one of the last records of a kakapo in the North Island being a single bird caught in the Kaimanawa Ranges by Te Kepa Puawheawhe in 1895.\n\nIn 1891, the New Zealand government set aside Resolution Island in Fiordland as a nature reserve. In 1894, the government appointed Richard Henry as caretaker. A keen naturalist, Henry was aware that native birds were declining, and began catching and moving kakapo and kiwi from the mainland to the predator-free Resolution Island. In six years, he moved more than 200 kakapo to Resolution Island. By 1900, however, stoats had swum to Resolution Island and colonised it; they wiped out the nascent kakapo population within 6 years.\n\nIn 1903, three kakapo were moved from Resolution Island to the nature reserve of Little Barrier Island north-east of Auckland, but feral cats were present and the kakapo were never seen again. In 1912, three kakapo were moved to another reserve, Kapiti Island, north-west of Wellington. One of them survived until at least 1936, despite the presence of feral cats for part of the intervening period.\n\nBy the 1920s, the kakapo was extinct in the North Island and its range and numbers in the South Island were declining. One of its last refuges was rugged Fiordland. There, during the 1930s, it was often seen or heard, and occasionally eaten, by hunters or roadworkers. By the 1940s, reports of kakapo were becoming scarce.\n\nIn the 1950s, the New Zealand Wildlife Service was established and began making regular expeditions to search for the kakapo, mostly in Fiordland and what is now the Kahurangi National Park in the northwest of the South Island. Seven Fiordland expeditions between 1951 and 1956 found only a few recent signs. Finally, in 1958 a kakapo was caught and released in the Milford Sound catchment area in Fiordland. Six more kakapo were captured in 1961; one was released and the other five were transferred to the aviaries of the Mount Bruce Bird Reserve near Masterton in the North Island. Within months, four of the birds had died and the fifth died after about four years. In the next 12 years, regular expeditions found few signs of the kakapo, indicating that numbers were continuing to decline. Only one bird was captured in 1967; it died the following year.\n\nBy the early 1970s, it was uncertain whether the kakapo was still an extant species. At the end of 1974, scientists located several more male kakapo and made the first scientific observations of kakapo booming. These observations led Don Merton to speculate for the first time that the kakapo had a lek breeding system. From 1974 to 1976, 14 kakapo were discovered but all appeared to be males. This raised the possibility that the species would become extinct, because there might be no surviving females. One male bird was captured in the Milford area in 1975, christened \"Richard Henry\", and transferred to Maud Island. All the birds the Wildlife Service discovered from 1951 to 1976 were in U-shaped glaciated valleys flanked by almost-vertical cliffs and surrounded by high mountains. Such extreme terrain had slowed colonisation by browsing mammals, leaving islands of virtually unmodified native vegetation. However, even here, stoats were present and by 1976 the kakapo was gone from the valley floors and only a few males survived high on the most inaccessible parts of the cliffs.\n\nBefore 1977, no expedition had been to Stewart Island/Rakiura to search for the bird. In 1977, sightings of kakapo were reported on Stewart Island. An expedition to the island found a track and bowl system on its first day; soon after, it located several dozen kakapo. The finding in an 8,000-hectare area of fire-modified scrubland and forest raised hope that the population would include females. The total population was estimated at 100 to 200 birds.\n\nMustelids have never colonised Stewart Island/Rakiura, but feral cats were present. During a survey, it was apparent that cats killed kakapo at a rate of 56% per year. At this rate, the birds could not survive on the island and therefore an intensive cat control was introduced in 1982, after which no cat-killed kakapo were found. However, to ensure the survival of the remaining birds, scientists decided later that this population should be transferred to predator-free islands; this operation was carried out between 1982 and 1997.\n\nIn 1989, a Kakapo Recovery programme was developed and a Kakapo Recovery Group established to implement it. The New Zealand Department of Conservation replaced the Wildlife Service for this task. The first action of the plan was to relocate all the remaining kakapo to suitable islands for them to breed. None of the New Zealand islands were ideal to establish kakapo without rehabilitation by extensive re-vegetation and the eradication of introduced mammalian predators and competitors. Four islands were finally chosen: Maud, Hauturu/Little Barrier, Codfish and Mana. Sixty-five kakapo (43 males, 22 females) were successfully transferred onto the four islands in five translocations. Some islands had to be rehabilitated several times when feral cats, stoats and weka kept appearing. Little Barrier Island was eventually viewed as unsuitable due to the rugged landscape, the thick forest and the continued presence of rats, and its birds were evacuated in 1998. Along with Mana Island, it was replaced with two new kakapo sanctuaries: Chalky Island (Te Kakahu) and Anchor Island. The entire kakapo population of Codfish Island was temporarily relocated in 1999 to Pearl Island in Port Pegasus while rats were being eliminated from Codfish. All kakapo on Pearl and Chalky Islands were moved to Anchor Island in 2005.\nA key part of the Recovery Plan is the supplementary feeding of females. The kakapo breeds only once every two to five years, when a certain type of plant species, primarily \"Dacrydium cupressinum\" (rimu), produces protein-rich fruit and seeds. Observations of the relationship between intermittent breeding and the plant's mast year help biologists choose which suitable supplementary foods to increase kakapo breeding frequency. In 1989, six preferred foods (apples, sweet potatoes, almonds, Brazil nuts, sunflower seeds and walnuts) were supplied \"ad libitum\" each night to 12 feeding stations. Males and females ate the supplied foods, and females nested on Little Barrier Island in the summers of 1989–91 for the first time since 1982, although nesting success was low.\n\nSupplementary feeding not only increases kakapo breeding frequency, but also affects the sex ratio of kakapo offspring, as maternal conditions influence this ratio. (See section \"Reproduction\".) This finding was subsequently used to increase the number of female chicks by deliberately manipulating maternal conditions. During the winter of 1981, only females lighter than were given supplementary feeding to avoid raising their body condition, and the sex ratio results in 1982 were close to parity, eliminating the male-biased sex ratios in the unrestricted feeding.\n\nThough breeding can be improved by supplementary feeding, the survival of young kakapo is hampered by the presence of Polynesian rats. Of 21 chicks that hatched between 1981 and 1994, nine were either killed by rats or died and were subsequently eaten by rats. Nest protection has been intensified since 1995 by using traps and poison stations as soon as a nest had been detected. A small video camera and infra-red light source watch the nest continuously, and will scare approaching rats with flashing lights and loud popping sounds. To increase the success rate of nesting, a nest watcher places a small thermostatically controlled electric blanket over the eggs or chicks, whenever the female leaves the nest for food. The survival rate of chicks has increased from 29% in unprotected nests to 75% in protected ones.\n\nTo monitor the kakapo population continuously, each bird is equipped with a radio transmitter. Every known kakapo, barring some young chicks, has been given a name by Kakapo Recovery Programme officials. It is an affectionate way for conservation staff to refer to individual birds, and a stark reminder of how few remain. Artificial incubation of eggs and hand-raising of chicks have often been used to improve the condition of the eggs and chicks. In November 2005, the population comprised 41 females and 45 males, including four fledglings (3 females and 1 male) bred in 2005. The oldest known kakapo, \"Richard Henry\", was thought to be 80 years old at the time of his death in December 2010.\nIn 2006, the Kakapo Recovery Programme presented a new management plan that would run from 2006 to 2016. The key goals of this plan were to increase the female population to at least 60 by 2016, increase genetic diversity (since the low number of individuals can be expected to result in inbreeding depression), maintain or restore a sufficiently large habitat to accommodate the expected increase in the kakapo population, and maintain public awareness and support.\n\nThe Kakapo Recovery programme has been successful, with the numbers of kakapo increasing steadily. Adult survival rate and productivity have both improved significantly since the programme's inception. However, the main goal is to establish at least one viable, self-sustaining, unmanaged population of kakapo as a functional component of the ecosystem in a protected habitat. To help meet this conservation challenge, two large Fiordland islands, Resolution (20,860 ha) and Secretary (8,140 ha), have been prepared for re-introduction of the kakapo with large-scale ecological restoration activities. Ultimately, the Kakapo Recovery vision for the species is to restore the \"mauri\" (Maori for \"life-force\") of the kakapo by breeding 150 adult females.\n\nDuring the 2008–2009 summer breeding season, the total population of kakapo rose to over 100 for the first time since monitoring began, reaching by 2016, with 116 adults. Twenty two of the 34 chicks had to be hand-reared because of a shortage of food on Codfish Island.\n\nIn 2012, seven kakapo were transferred to Little Barrier Island, in an attempt to establish a successful breeding programme. Kakapo were last on the island in 1999.\n\nIn March 2014, with the kakapo population having increased to 126, the bird's recovery was used by Melbourne artist Sayraphim Lothian as a metaphor for the recovery of Christchurch, parallelling the \"indomitable spirit of these two communities and their determination to rebuild\".\n\nAccording to an April 2018 newsletter from the kakapo recovery program, after the death of 3 birds, the population has been reduced to 149.\n\nThe kakapo is associated with a rich tradition of Māori folklore and beliefs. The bird's irregular breeding cycle was understood to be associated with heavy fruiting or \"masting\" events of particular plant species such as the rimu, which led Māori to credit the bird with the ability to tell the future. Used to substantiate this claim were reported observations of these birds dropping the berries of the hinau and tawa trees (when they were in season) into secluded pools of water to preserve them as a food supply for the summer ahead; in legend this became the origin of the Māori practice of immersing food in water for the same purpose.\n\nThe meat of kakapo made good eating and was considered by Māori to be a delicacy and it was hunted for food when it was still widespread. One source states that its flesh \"resembles lamb in taste and texture\", although European settlers have described the bird as having a \"strong and slightly stringent [sic] flavour\".\n\nIn breeding years, the loud booming calls of the males at their mating arenas made it easy for Māori hunting parties to track the kakapo down, and it was also hunted while feeding or when dust-bathing in dry weather. The bird was caught, generally at night, using snares, pitfall traps, or by groups of domesticated Polynesian dogs which accompanied hunting parties – sometimes they would use fire sticks of various sorts to dazzle a bird in the darkness, stopping it in their tracks and making the capture easier. Cooking was done in a hāngi or in gourds of boiling oil. The flesh of the bird could be preserved in its own fat and stored in containers for later consumption – hunters of the Ngāi Tahu tribe would pack the flesh in baskets made from the inner bark of totara tree or in containers constructed from kelp. Bundles of kakapo tail feathers were attached to the sides of these containers to provide decoration and a way to identify their contents. Also taken by the Māori were the bird's eggs, which are described as whitish \"but not pure white\", and about the same size as a kererū egg.\n\nAs well as eating the meat of the kakapo, Māori would use kakapo skins with the feathers still attached or individually weave in kakapo feathers with flax fibre to create cloaks and capes. Each one required up to 11,000 feathers to make. Not only were these garments considered very beautiful, they also kept the wearer very warm. They were highly valued, and the few still in existence today are considered \"taonga\" (treasures) – indeed, the old Māori adage \"You have a kākāpō cape and you still complain of the cold\" was used to describe someone who is never satisfied. Kakapo feathers were also used to decorate the heads of taiaha, but were removed before use in combat.\n\nDespite this, the kakapo was also regarded as an affectionate pet by the Māori. This was corroborated by European settlers in New Zealand in the 19th century, among them George Edward Grey, who once wrote in a letter to an associate that his pet kakapo's behaviour towards him and his friends was \"more like that of a dog than a bird\".\n\nThe conservation of the kakapo has made the species well known. Many books and documentaries detailing the plight of the kakapo have been produced in recent years, one of the earliest being \"Two in the Bush\", made by Gerald Durrell for the BBC in 1962. A feature-length documentary, \"The Unnatural History of the Kakapo\" won two major awards at the Reel Earth Environmental Film Festival. Two of the most significant documentaries, both made by NHNZ, are \"Kakapo – Night Parrot\" (1982) and \"To Save the Kakapo\" (1997). The BBC's Natural History Unit also featured the kakapo, including a sequence with Sir David Attenborough in \"The Life of Birds\". It was also one of the endangered animals Douglas Adams and Mark Carwardine set out to find for the radio series and book \"Last Chance to See\". An updated version of the series has been produced for BBC TV, in which Stephen Fry and Carwardine revisit the animals to see how they are getting on almost 20 years later, and in January 2009, they spent time filming the kakapo on Codfish Island. Footage of a kakapo named Sirocco attempting to mate with Carwardine's head was viewed by millions worldwide, leading to Sirocco becoming \"spokes-bird\" for New Zealand wildlife conservation in 2010, as part of the International Year of Biodiversity. The kakapo was featured in the episode \"Strange Islands\" of the documentary series \"South Pacific\", originally aired on 13 June 2009, in the episode \"Worlds Apart\" of the series \"The Living Planet\", and in episode 3 of the BBC's \"New Zealand Earth's Mythical Islands\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23909629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23909629", "title": "Kartvelian languages", "text": "Kartvelian languages\n\nThe Kartvelian languages (; , , also known as Iberian and formerly South Caucasian) are a language family indigenous to the Caucasus and spoken primarily in Georgia, with large groups of native speakers in Russia, Iran, the United States, the European Union, Israel, and northeastern parts of Turkey. There are approximately 5.2 million speakers of Kartvelian languages worldwide.\nThe Kartvelian family is not known to be related to any other language family, making it one of the world's primary language families. The first literary source in a Kartvelian language is the Georgian language \"inscriptions of Bir el Qutt\", written in ancient Georgian \"Asomtavruli\" script at the Georgian monastery near Bethlehem, which dates back to c. 430 AD.\n\nThe Georgian script is the writing system used to write all Kartvelian languages, though the Laz language in Turkey is also written using a Latin script.\n\nGeorgian is the official language of Georgia (spoken by 90% of the population) and the main language for literary and business use for all Kartvelian speakers in Georgia. It is written with an original and distinctive alphabet, and the oldest surviving literary text dates from the 5th century AD—the only Caucasian language with an ancient literary tradition. The old Georgian script seems to have been derived from Aramaic, with Greek influences.\n\nMingrelian has been written with the Georgian alphabet since 1864, especially in the period from 1930 to 1938, when the Mingrelians enjoyed some cultural autonomy, and after 1989.\n\nThe Laz language was written chiefly between 1927 and 1937, and now again in Turkey, with the Latin alphabet. Laz, however, is disappearing as its speakers are integrating into mainstream Turkish society.\n\nThe Kartvelian language family consists of four closely related languages which form a dialect continuum:\n\n\n<br>\n\nThe connection between these languages was first reported in linguistic literature by Johann Anton Güldenstädt in his 1773 classification of the languages of the Caucasus, and later proven by G. Rosen, Marie-Félicité Brosset, Franz Bopp and others during the 1840s. Zan is the branch that contains the Mingrelian and Laz languages.\n\nOn the basis of glottochronological analysis, Georgi Klimov dates the split of the Proto-Kartvelian into Svan and Proto-Karto-Zan to the 19th century BC, and the further division into Georgian and Zan to the 8th century BC, although with the reservation that such dating is very preliminary and substantial further study is required.\n\nThe older name \"South Caucasian\" is no longer much used, as it derives from the idea that Kartvelian is related to the Northwest Caucasian and Northeast Caucasian languages, a position which is no longer maintained.\n\nNo relationship with other languages, including the two North Caucasian language families, has been demonstrated so far. Some linguists, such as Tamaz V. Gamkrelidze, have proposed that the Kartvelian family is part of a much larger Nostratic language family, but both the concept of a Nostratic family and Georgian's relation to it are not considered likely by linguists.\n\nCertain grammatical similarities with Basque, especially in the case system, have often been pointed out. However, the hypothesis of a relationship, which also tends to link the Caucasian languages with other non-Indo-European and non-Semitic languages of the Near East of ancient times, is generally considered to lack conclusive evidence. Any similarities to other linguistic phyla may be due to areal influences. Heavy borrowing in both directions (i.e. from North Caucasian to Kartvelian and vice versa) has been observed; therefore it is likely that certain grammatical features have been influenced as well. If the Dené–Caucasian hypothesis, which attempts to link Basque, Burushaski, the North Caucasian families and other phyla, is correct, then the similarities to Basque may also be due to these influences, however indirect. Certain Kartvelian–Indo-European lexical links are revealed at the protolanguage level, which are ascribed to the early contacts between Proto-Kartvelian and Proto-Indo-European populations.\n\nThe Kartvelian languages classify objects as \"intelligent\" (\"who\"-class) and \"unintelligent\" (\"what\"-class) beings. Grammatical gender does not exist.\n\nKartvelian verbs can indicate one, two, or three grammatical persons. A performer of an action is called the subject and affected persons are objects (direct or indirect). The person may be singular or plural. According to the number of persons, the verbs are classified as unipersonal, bipersonal or tripersonal.\n\n\n\"Subjects\" and \"objects\" are indicated with special affixes.\n\nBy means of special markers Kartvelian verbs can indicate four kinds of action intentionality (\"version\"):\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26396168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26396168", "title": "List of proverbial phrases", "text": "List of proverbial phrases\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of widely used and repeated proverbial phrases. Whenever known, the origin of the phrase or proverb is noted. The majority of these phrases can be found at one of the following resources:\n\nA proverbial phrase or a proverbial expression is type of a conventional saying similar to proverbs and transmitted by oral tradition. The difference is that a proverb is a fixed expression, while a proverbial phrase permits alterations to fit the grammar of the context.\n\nIn 1768, John Ray defined a proverbial phrase as:\n\n\"Phrases beginning with the article \"A\" should be sought alphabetically under the first letter of the \"second\" word.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nZ\n\n"}
{"id": "2732121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2732121", "title": "Nwaran", "text": "Nwaran\n\nNwaran is a child naming ceremony celebrated in Nepal.\n\nIn the Hindu tradition, the Nwaran is celebrated on the 11th day after a child is born. This ceremony is performed to give a birthname to a child, according to his/her lunar horoscope, which is usually not the name by which he/she is known. Typically, a priest is invited to perform the ceremony at home, and divines finds the child's lunar horoscope from his birth details, as the mother is still recovering at home with the child. Until the mother and child are 'purified' (from past birth etc. in the religious sense), they should not visit the temple. \n\nOne can also perform a \"nwaran\" on the 21st or 41st day after birth, if for some reason the 11th day was not observed. \n\nBefore the \"pooja\", the \"Pooja\" materials should be washed and kept clean and ready in the \"Pooja\" place. You can select a place for the \"Pooja\", depending on the number of people you are going to call. The \"Pooja\" should be done facing east or west. A carpeted area covered with a clean, washed cloth like a bed sheet, can be used; unless there is going to be the \"Havan\" (\"Homam\") ceremony, in which case it should be on a wooden, vinyl or tiled floor. \nAfter the ceremony, the area can be cleaned up after sunset, or the next day. The fruits can be used as \"Prasad\", whilst the \"Pooja\" flowers and Paan leaves are spread in the backyard near trees. Kalash coconut, the \"Pooja vasthra\" (cloth), the coins and the rice should be packed separately, and all other grains mixed together. These should be given, neatly packed, to the temple within 11 days; but the used fruits, flowers and pan leaves should not be taken inside the temple. \n"}
{"id": "46531324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46531324", "title": "Open synthetic biology", "text": "Open synthetic biology\n\nOpen Synthetic Biology (Open SynBio) is the idea that scientific knowledge and data should be openly accessible through common rights licensing to enable the rapid development of safe, effective and commercially viable synthetic biology applications.\n\nIts foundational concepts are:\n\n\nOpen SynBio is a theoretical framework supporting a global ecosystem of responsible and capable research scientists working collaboratively on synthetic biology application development projects to reduce cost, time, and risks of developing new synthetic biology applications (including Open SynBio therapeutics) from the inception of primary science to applications reaching market readiness and commercial viability.\n\nIts general principle is that participating research scientists agree to share research, data, findings and results with the Open Synthetic Biology community and the public generally. The Open SynBio community will set standards and expectations of the participants and their \"science to market\" process and the community will work collaboratively with downstream stakeholders (e.g., investors and business advisors) to ensure public safety and general availability of new synthetic biology applications.\n\nOne example of open synthetic biology is when DNA2.0 donated several artificial gene sequences into an open-access repository run by the BioBricks Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3402732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3402732", "title": "Outline of history", "text": "Outline of history\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to history:\n\nHistory – discovery, collection, organization, and presentation of information about past events. History can also mean the period of time after writing was invented (the beginning of recorded history).\nHistory can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\nAuxiliary sciences of history – scholarly disciplines which help evaluate and use historical sources and are seen as auxiliary for historical research. Auxiliary sciences of history include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nHistory by period\n\n\n\n\n\nRegional history\n\n\nEra\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistorian \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47662605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47662605", "title": "Panchali (narrative form)", "text": "Panchali (narrative form)\n\nPanchali is an oral narrative form of songs and stories in Bengali culture. During a panchali recitation, the singer walks among the listeners making gestures to accompany the story. The tradition is found among both Hindu and Muslim communities. The themes are typically religious and reflect a variety of impacts on the culture through a period of several centuries. Some focus on the duties of a good wife.\n\nInterspersed in the presentation of Bengali folk opera, there are frequently breaks which are filled with panchali and other forms of songs. The panchali is followed by the singing of a religious song in Upper Assam.\n"}
{"id": "1157714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1157714", "title": "Pasar malam", "text": "Pasar malam\n\nPasar malam () is an Indonesian and Malay word that literally means \"night market\" (the word comes from \"bazaar\" in Persian). A \"pasar malam\" is a street market in Indonesia, Malaysia, Brunei and Singapore that opens in the evening, usually in residential neighbourhoods.\n\nIt brings together a collection of stalls that usually sell goods such as snacks, local favourite dishes, fruits, clothes, shoes, toys, balloons, watch and alarm clocks, knick-knacks and ornaments at cheap or at least reasonable prices. Unauthorized copies of DVDs, CDs and computer software are often sold at a pasar malam. \n\nPasar malam might resemble a night festival or a fairground, where fair games and kiddy rides, like mini carousel or mini train ride may also present. Several quintessential fair snacks like cotton candy, ice cream, hot dogs and grilled sausages are also popular, next to the offerings of traditional local delicacies. A pasar malam often takes place only one to a few days of the week, as the traders rotate around different neighbourhoods on different days of the week. Haggling over prices is a common practice at such markets.\n\nIn Indonesian archipelago, markets are traditionally held in different days with locations rotating among participating villages. This traditional economic custom is known as \"Hari Pasaran\" (lit. \"market days\") in Javanese. After being further developed, market was established more permanently like it is today. The night market is regarded as the continuation of this non-permanent market culture. Night market are usually held during special occasion or festival, such as Sekaten festival in Java, or held in Ramadhan nights, approximately a week before Lebaran. \n\nAfter the discovery of electricity and lightbulb, the night markets were held more frequently in colonial Dutch East Indies in early 20th century. The most notable one is Pasar Gambir, a night market fair held in 1906 and yearly from 1921 until the outbreak of World War II in 1942, in the Koningsplein, Batavia, Dutch East Indies (now Merdeka Square, Jakarta, Indonesia) to celebrate the birthday of Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands. It has become the predecessor of the annual Jakarta Fair and Den Haag's Tong Tong Fair which are actually a night market and festival held for several weeks.\n\nIn Java, especially in the Javanese royal cities Yogyakarta and Surakarta, the grand week-long pasar malam is usually held annually during the Sekaten festival to celebrate Mawlid or the birthday of prophet Muhammad. During colonial Dutch East Indies the annual Pasar Malam was held in Pasar Gambir (today Merdeka square) and become the predecessor of modern Jakarta's annual Jakarta Fair. \n\nToday, several \"kecamatan\" (district) in Jakarta and also other provinces in Indonesia, hold weekly pasar malam, usually every Saturday night in a nearby \"alun-alun\" square, open fields or marketplaces. In Indonesia, pasar malam has become a weekly recreational place for local families. Other than selling variety of goods and foods, some pasar malam also offer kiddy rides and carnival games, such as mini carousel or mini train ride. In Palembang, a popular pasar malam is located on front of Kuto Besak Fort on the bank of Musi River. This pasar malam sells local dishes and snacks such as pempek, lenggang and tekwan, and also offers souvenirs and handy crafts.\n\nIn Malaysia, Pasar Malam are normally setup at temporary closed street for vehicle and open for pedestrian during evening until late night on weekly basis. At certain location due to frequency or few time in a week, narrow and busy street also safety reasons, Pasar Malam will open at Tapak Pasar Malam on nighttime which describe an allocation space that convert a parking space during a daytime. \n\nDue to the hot Malaysian weather during the daytime, the Pasar Malam has become a nightlife activity that attracts local community after working time and tourist crowd to shop with moderate night temperatures looking for cheap hot foods, clothing, groceries and etc. The vendor licenses are obtained from local authorities under the local council area. \n\nMajority of the local vendor selling plenty type of drinks, hot foods and local delicacies from Malay, Malaysian Chinese and Indian background which are famous and also the difficult to find, fresh fruits and vegetables, fresh fish and seafoods, fresh meat and poultry, toys, family range of clothes and accessories. Some local vendor also selling a live pets or even a phone accessories.\n\nThe easiest way looking a Pasar Malam in Malaysia by typing \"Pasar Malam\" on Google Maps. An info on location, opening day and hours will certainly useful. As the name implied, opening hours normally late at 5:00 PM and close at 11:00 PM or until foods sold out.\n\nIn Singapore, food hawkers at pasar malam are required to get a licence from local council to ensure health, cleanliness and to control numbers to avoid traffic congestion. A food handler is required to get a medical checkup and Typhim VI injections, The pasar malam site is allocated by the local council.\n\nIn the Netherlands, a yearly Indo Eurasian festival is held in The Hague under the name \"Tong Tong Fair\", formerly known as the \"Pasar Malam Besar\" (\"besar\" meaning \"big\"). Due to the high number of Indo-Eurasians and the successive success of this event since 1959, dozens of pasar malam are held each year in the Netherlands. Recently the Indonesian embassy has started sponsoring a yearly \"pasar malam Indonesia\", mainly to promote Indonesian business and enhance Dutch-Indonesian relations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4438668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4438668", "title": "Pleat", "text": "Pleat\n\nA pleat (older plait) is a type of fold formed by doubling fabric back upon itself and securing it in place. It is commonly used in clothing and upholstery to gather a wide piece of fabric to a narrower circumference.\n\nPleats are categorized as \"pressed\", that is, ironed or otherwise heat-set into a sharp crease, or \"unpressed\", falling in soft rounded folds.\n\nPleats sewn into place are called tucks.\n\nA vertically hanging piece of fabric such as a skirt or a drape will often be described in terms of its \"fullness.\" Fullness represents the thickness/ depth of the pleats in relation to the original width of the fabric: fabric sewn at \"zero fullness\" would actually be flat and have no pleats; fabric sewn at \"100% fullness\" is pleated so that it takes up exactly half as much width as it would if it were not pleated at all (i.e., 24 inches would be pleated down to 12 inches); if sewn at \"150% fullness,\" the unpleated fabric would be two and a half times wider than the final pleated piece (i.e., an unpleated 30 inches would end up as 12 pleated inches of fabric: 12+1.50(12)=30); if fullness were to be \"50%\", the original fabric would be one and a half times the width of the pleated (i.e., 18 inches of width would end up as 12 pleated inches: 12+0.50(12)=18), etc.\n\nAccordion pleats or knife pleats are a form of tight pleating which allows the garment to expand its shape when moving. Accordion pleating is also used for some dress sleeves, such as pleating the end of the elbow, with the fullness of the pleat gathered closely at the cuff. This form of pleating inspired the \"skirt dancing\" of Loie Fuller. Accordion pleats may also be used in hand fans.\n\nBox pleats are knife pleats back-to-back, and have a tendency to spring out from the waistline. They have the same 3:1 ratio as knife pleats, and may also be stacked to form \"stacked-\" or \"double-box pleats\". These stacked box pleats create more fullness and have a 5:1 ratio. They also create a bulkier seam. Inverted box pleats have the \"box\" on the inside rather than the outside.\n\nCartridge pleats are used to gather a large amount of fabric into a small waistband or armscye without adding bulk to the seam. This type of pleating also allows the fabric of the skirt or sleeve to spring out from the seam. During the 15th and 16th centuries, this form of pleating was popular in the garments of men and women. Fabric is evenly gathered using two or more lengths of basting stitches, and the top of each pleat is whipstitched onto the waistband or armscye. Cartridge pleating was resurrected in 1840s fashion to attach the increasingly full bell-shaped skirts to the fashionable narrow waist.\n\nFluted pleats or \"flutings\" are very small, rounded or pressed pleats used as trimmings. The name comes from their resemblance to a pan flute.\n\nFortuny pleats are crisp pleats set in silk fabrics by designer Mariano Fortuny in the early 20th century, using a secret pleat-setting process which is still not understood.\n\nHoneycomb pleats are narrow, rolled pleats used as a foundation for smocking.\n\nKick pleats are short pleats leading upwards from the bottom hem of garments such as skirts or coats, usually at the back. They allow the garment to drape straight down when stationary while also allowing freedom of movement.\n\nOrgan pleats are parallel rows of softly rounded pleats resembling the pipes of a pipe organ. Carl Köhler suggests that these are made by inserting one or more gores into a panel of fabric.\n\nPlissé pleats are narrow pleats set by gathering fabric with stitches, wetting the fabric, and \"setting\" the pleats by allowing the wet fabric to dry under weight or tension. Linen chemises or smocks pleated with this technique have been found in the 10th century Viking graves in Birka.\n\nRolled pleats create tubular pleats which run the length of the fabric from top to bottom. A piece of the fabric to be pleated is pinched and then rolled until it is flat against the rest of the fabric, forming a tube. A variation on the rolled pleat is the stacked pleat, which is rolled similarly and requires at least five inches of fabric per finished pleat. Both types of pleating create a bulky seam.\n\nWatteau pleats are one or two box pleats found at the back neckline of 18th century sack-back gowns and some late 19th century tea gowns in imitation of these. The term is not contemporary, but is used by costume historians in reference to these styles as portrayed in the paintings of Antoine Watteau.\n\nKingussie pleats, named after the town in Scotland, are a very rarely seen type of pleat used in some Scottish kilts. They consist of a single centrally located box pleat in the rear of the kilt with knife pleats fanning out on either side.\n\nClothing features pleats for practical reasons (to provide freedom of movement to the wearer) as well as for purely stylistic reasons.\n\nShirts and blouses typically have pleats on the back to provide freedom of movement and on the arm where the sleeve tapers to meet the cuff. The standard men's shirt has a box pleat in the center of the back just below the shoulder or alternately one simple pleat on each side of the back.\n\nJackets designed for active outdoor wear frequently have pleats (usually inverted box pleats) to allow for freedom of movement. Norfolk jackets have double-ended inverted box pleats at the chest and back.\n\nSkirts, dresses and kilts can include pleats of various sorts to add fullness from the waist or hips, or at the hem, to allow freedom of movement or achieve design effects.\n\n\nPleats just below the waistband on the front of the garment are typical of many styles of formal and casual trousers including suit trousers and khakis. There may be one, two, three, or no pleats, which may face either direction. When the pleats open towards the pockets they are called reverse pleats (typical of khakis and corduroy trousers) and when they open toward the zipper, they are known as forward pleats.\n\nUtilitarian or very casual styles such as jeans and cargo pants are flat-front (without pleats at the waistband) but may have bellows pockets.\n\nPleated trousers were popular before World War II; fabric rationing during the war precluded the style, and flat front became the standard by necessity of cloth shortages. Pleats on men's trousers remains a classic style option suited for more traditional looks, while flat front pants are a more recent on-trend fashion.\n\nA bellows pocket is patch pocket with an inset box pleat to allow the pocket to expand when filled. Bellows pockets are typical of cargo pants, safari jackets, and other utilitarian garments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19495", "title": "Poland Is Not Yet Lost", "text": "Poland Is Not Yet Lost\n\n\"Mazurek Dąbrowskiego\" (, ), also known by its incipit, \"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\" \n(\"Jeszcze Polska nie zginęła\"), is the national anthem of Poland.\n\nThe lyrics were written by Józef Wybicki in Reggio Emilia, Cisalpine Republic in Northern Italy, between 16 and 19 of July 1797, two years after the Third Partition of Poland erased the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth from the map. It was originally meant to boost the morale of Polish soldiers serving under General Jan Henryk Dąbrowski's Polish Legions that served with Napoleon's French Revolutionary Army in the Italian campaigns of the French Revolutionary Wars. \"Dabrowski's Mazurka\", expressing the idea that the nation of Poland, despite lacking an independent state of their own, had not disappeared as long as the Polish people were still alive and fighting in its name, soon became one of the most popular patriotic songs in Poland.\n\nThe music is an unattributed mazurka and considered a \"folk tune\" that Polish composer Edward Pałłasz categorizes as \"functional art\" which was \"fashionable among the gentry and rich bourgeoisie\". Pałłasz wrote, \"Wybicki probably made use of melodic motifs he had heard and combined them in one formal structure to suit the text\".\n\nIt is \"one of the most important songs of the Slavic nations.\" The text of the hymn was modified to suit new occasions and socio-political contexts\" throughout the song's history. When Poland re-emerged as an independent state in 1918, \"Dabrowski's Mazurka\" became its \"de facto\" national anthem. It was officially adopted as the national anthem of the Republic of Poland in 1926. It also inspired similar songs by other peoples struggling for independence during the 19th century, such as the Ukrainian national anthem \"The Glory and The Freedom of Ukraine Has Not Yet Perished\" and the Pan-Slavic song \"Hey, Slavs\" which was used as the national anthem of Yugoslavia during that state's existence.\n\nIt is also known by its original title, \"\" (, \"Song of the Polish Legions in Italy\"). English translations of its Polish incipit (\"\" ) include: \"Poland has not yet perished\", \"Poland has not perished yet\", \"Poland is not lost\", \"Poland is not lost yet\", and \"Poland is not yet lost\". \n\nThe original lyrics, authored by Wybicki, were a poem consisting of six stanzas and a chorus repeated after all but last stanzas, all following an ABAB rhyme scheme. The official lyrics, based on a variant from 1806,\nshow a certain departure from the original text. It misses two of the original stanzas and reverses the order of other two. Notably, the initial verse, \"Poland has not yet died\" was replaced with \"Poland has not yet perished\", suggesting a more violent cause of the nation's possible death. Wybicki's original manuscript was in the hands of his descendants until February 1944, when it was lost in Wybicki's great-great-grandson, Johann von Roznowski's home in Charlottenburg during the Allied bombing of Berlin. The manuscript is known today only from facsimile copies, twenty four of which were made in 1886 by Edward Rożnowski, Wybicki's grandson, who donated them to Polish libraries.\n\nThe main theme of the poem is the idea that was novel in the times of early nationalisms based on centralized nation-statesthat the lack of political sovereignty does not preclude the existence of a nation. As Adam Mickiewicz explained in 1842 to students of Slavic Literature in Paris, the song \"The famous song of the Polish legions begins with lines that express the new history: Poland has not perished yet as long as we live. These words mean that people who have in them what constitutes the essence of a nation can prolong the existence of their country regardless of its political circumstances and may even strive to make it real again...\" The song also includes a call to arms and expresses the hope that, under General Dąbrowski's command, the legionaries would rejoin their nation and retrieve \"what the alien force has seized\" through armed struggle.\n\nThe chorus and subsequent stanzas include heart-lifting examples of military heroes, set as role models for Polish soldiers: Jan Henryk Dąbrowski, Napoleon, Stefan Czarniecki and Tadeusz Kościuszko. Dąbrowski, for whom the anthem is named, was a commander in the failed 1794 Kościuszko Uprising against Russia. After the Third Partition in 1795, he came to Paris to seek French aid in re-establishing Polish independence and, in 1796, he started the formation of the Polish Legions, a Polish unit of the French Revolutionary Army. Bonaparte was, at the time when the song was written, a commander of the Italian campaign of French Revolutionary Wars and Dąbrowski's superior. Having already proven his skills as a military leader, he is described in the lyrics as the one \"who has shown us ways to victory.\" Bonaparte is the only non-Polish person mentioned by name in the Polish anthem.\n\nStefan Czarniecki was a 17th-century hetman (military commander), famous for his role in driving the Swedish army out of Poland after an occupation that had left the country in ruins and is remembered by Poles as the Deluge. With the outbreak of a Dano-Swedish War, he continued his fight against Sweden in Denmark, from where he \"returned across the sea\" to fight the invaders alongside the king who was then at the Royal Castle in Poznań. In the same castle, Józef Wybicki, started his career as a lawyer (in 1765). Kościuszko, mentioned in a stanza now missing from the anthem, became a hero of the American Revolutionary War before coming back to Poland to defend his native country from Russia in the war of 1792 and a national uprising he led in 1794. One of his major victories during the uprising was the Battle of Racławice where the result was partly due to Polish peasants armed with scythes. Alongside the scythes, the song mentioned other types of weaponry, traditionally used by the Polish \"szlachta\", or nobility: the sabre, known in Polish as \"szabla\", and the backsword.\n\nBasia (a female name, diminutive of Barbara) and her father are fictional characters. They are used to represent the women and elderly men who waited for the Polish soldiers to return home and liberate their fatherland. The route that Dąbrowski and his legions hoped to follow upon leaving Italy is hinted at by the words \"we'll cross the Vistula, we'll cross the Warta\", two major rivers flowing through the parts of Poland that were in Austrian and Prussian hands at the time.\n\nThe melody of the Polish anthem is a lively and rhythmical mazurka. Mazurka as a musical form derives from the stylization of traditional melodies for the folk dances of Mazovia, a region in central Poland. It is characterized by a triple meter and strong accents placed irregularly on the second or third beat. Considered one of Poland's national dances in pre-partition times, it owes its popularity in 19th-century West European ballrooms to the mazurkas of Frédéric Chopin.\n\nThe composer of \"Mazurek Dąbrowskiego\" is unknown. The melody is most probably Wybicki's adaptation of a folk tune that had already been popular during the second half of the 18th century. The composition used to be erroneously attributed to Michał Kleofas Ogiński who was known to have written a march for Dąbrowski's legions. Several historians confused Ogiński's \"\" (\"March for the Polish Legions\") with Wybicki's mazurka, possibly due to the mazurka's chorus \"March, march, Dąbrowski\", until Ogiński's sheet music for the march was discovered in 1938 and proven to be a different piece of music than Poland's national anthem.\n\nThe first composer to use the anthem for an artistical music piece is always stated to be Karol Kurpiński. In 1821 he composed his piano/organ Fugue on \"Jeszcze Polska nie zginęła\" (it was published in 1821 in Warsaw; the first modern edition by Rostislaw Wygranienko was printed only in 2009). However, Karol Lipiński used it in an overture for his opera \"Kłótnia przez zakład\" composed and staged in Lviv ca.1812.\n\nIn 1908, Ignacy Jan Paderewski, later to become the first Prime Minister of independent Poland, quoted the anthem in a disguised way in his Symphony in B minor \"Polonia\". He scored it in duple meter rather than its standard triple meter.\n\nThe anthem was quoted by Edward Elgar in his symphonic prelude Polonia, composed in 1915.\n\nThe national anthem is, along with the national coat of arms and the national colors, one of three national symbols defined by the Polish constitution.\nAs such, it is protected by law which declares that treating the national symbols \"with reverence and respect\" is the \"right and obligation\" of every Polish citizen and all state organs, institutions and organizations. The anthem should be performed or reproduced especially at celebrations of national holidays and anniversaries. Civilians should pay respect to the anthem by standing in a dignified manner; additionally, men should uncover their heads. Members of uniformed services should stand at attention; if their uniform includes headgear and they are not standing in an organized group, they should also perform the two-finger salute. The song is required to be played in the key of F-major if played for a public purpose. Color guards pay respect to the anthem by dipping their banners.\n\nIn 1795, after a prolonged decline and despite last-minute attempts at constitutional reforms and armed resistance, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was ultimately partitioned by its three neighbors: Russia, Prussia and Austria. A once vast and powerful empire was effectively erased from the map while monarchs of the partitioning powers pledged never to use the name \"Poland\" in their official titles. For many, including even leading representatives of the Polish Enlightenment, this new political situation meant an end of the Polish nation. In the words of Hugo Kołłątaj, a notable Polish political thinker of the time, \"Poland no longer belonged to currently extant nations,\" while historian Tadeusz Czacki declared that Poland \"was now effaced from the number of nations.\"\n\nMeanwhile, Polish patriots and revolutionaries turned for help to France, Poland's traditional ally, which was at war with Austria (member of the First Coalition) at the time. Józef Wybicki was among the leading moderate émigré politicians seeking French aid in re-establishing Polish independence. In 1796, he came up with the idea of creating Polish Legions within the French Revolutionary Army. To this end, he convinced General Jan Henryk Dąbrowski, a hero of the Greater Poland campaign of the 1794 Kościuszko Uprising, to come to Paris and present the plan to the French Directory. Dąbrowski was sent by the Directory to Napoleon who was then spreading the French Revolution in northern Italy. In January 1797, the newly created French-controlled Cisalpine Republic accepted Dąbrowski's offer and a Polish legion was formed. Dąbrowski and his soldiers hoped to fight against Austria under Napoleon and, subsequently, march across the Austrian territory, \"from Italy to Poland\", where they would ignite a national uprising.\n\nIn early July 1797, Wybicki arrived in Reggio Emilia where the Polish Legions were then quartered and where he wrote the \"Song of the Polish Legions\" soon afterwards. He first sung it at a private meeting of Polish officers in the Legions' headquarters at the episcopal palace in Reggio. The first public performance most probably took place on 16 July 1797 during a military parade in Reggio's Piazza del Duomo (Cathedral Square). On 20 July, it was played again as the Legions were marching off from Reggio to Milan, the Cisalpine capital.\n\nWith its heart-lifting lyrics and folk melody, the song soon became a popular tune among Polish legionaries. On 29 August 1797, Dąbrowski already wrote to Wybicki from Bologna: \"soldiers gain more and more taste for your song.\" It appealed to both officers, usually émigré noblemen, and simple soldiers, most of whom were Galician peasants who had been drafted into the Austrian army and captured as POWs by the French. The last stanza, referring to Kościuszko, who famously fought for freedom of the entire nation rather than the nobility alone, and the \"scythes of Racławice\", seems to be directed particularly at the latter. Wybicki may have even hoped for Kościuszko to arrive in Italy and personally lead the Legions which might explain why the chorus \"March, march, Dąbrowski\" is not repeated after the last stanza. At that time Wybicki was not yet aware that Kościuszko had already returned to Philadelphia.\n\nThe song became popular in Poland as soon as late 1797 and quickly became an object of variations and modifications. A variant from 1798 introduced some stylistic changes, which have since become standard, such as replacing ' (\"not dead\") with ' (\"not perished\") or ' (\"to Poland from the Italian land\") with ' (\"from the Italian land to Poland\"). It also added four new stanzas, now forgotten, written from the viewpoint of Polish patriots waiting for General Dąbrowski to bring freedom and human rights to Poland.\n\nThe ultimate fate of the Polish Legions in Italy was different from that promised by Wybicki's song. Rather than coming back to Poland, they were exploited by the French government to quell uprisings in Italy, Germany and, later, in Haiti where they were decimated by war and disease. Polish national hopes were revived with the outbreak of a Franco-Prussian war (part of the War of the Fourth Coalition) in 1806. Napoleon called Dąbrowski and Wybicki to come back from Italy and help gather support for the French army in Polish-populated parts of Prussia. On 6 November 1806, both generals arrived in Poznań, enthusiastically greeted by locals singing \"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\". The ensuing Greater Poland Uprising and Napoleon's victory over Russian forces at Friedland led to the creation of a French-controlled Polish puppet state known as the Duchy of Warsaw.\n\n\"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\" was one of the most popular patriotic songs in the duchy, stopping short of becoming that entity's national anthem. Among other occasions, it was sung in Warsaw on 16 June 1807 to celebrate the battle of Friedland, in Kraków as it was liberated by Prince Józef Poniatowski on 19 July 1809, and at a ball in Warsaw on 23 December 1809, the birthday of Frederick Augustus, King of Saxony and Duke of Warsaw. On the occasion of Dąbrowski's name day on 25 December 1810 in Poznań, Dąbrowski and Wybicki led the mazurka to the tune of \"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\". Although the melody of Wybicki's song remained unchanged and widely known, the lyrics kept changing. With the signing of a Franco-Russian alliance at Tilsit in 1807, the fourth stanza, specifically mentioning Russians as Poland's enemies, was removed. The last stanza, referring to Kościuszko, who had grown suspicious of Napoleon and refused to lend his support to the emperor's war in Poland, met the same fate.\n\nThe anthem is mentioned twice in \"Pan Tadeusz\", the Polish national epic written by Adam Mickiewicz in 1834, but set in the years 1811–1812. The author makes the first reference to the song when Tadeusz, the main protagonist, returns home and, recalling childhood memories, pulls the string of a chiming clock to hear the \"old Dąbrowski's Mazurka\" once again. Musical boxes and musical clocks playing the melody of \"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\" belonged to popular patriotic paraphernalia of that time. The song appears in the epic poem again when Jankiel, a Jewish dulcimerist and ardent Polish patriot, plays the mazurka in the presence of General Dąbrowski himself.\n\nWith Napoleon's defeat and the Congress of Vienna in 1815 came a century of foreign domination over Poland interspersed with occasional bursts of armed rebellion. \"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\" continued to be sung throughout that period, especially during national uprisings. During the November Uprising against Russia in 1830−1831, the song was chanted in the battlefields of Stoczek, Olszynka Grochowska and Iganie. In peacetime, Polish patriots performed it at homes, official functions and political demonstrations. New variants of the song, of various artistic value and length of life, abounded. At least 16 alternative versions were penned during the November Uprising alone. At times, Dąbrowski's name was replaced by other national heroes: from Józef Chłopicki during the November Uprising to Józef Piłsudski during the First World War to Władysław Sikorski during the Second World War. New lyrics were also written in regional dialects of Polish, from Silesia to Ermland and Masuria. A variant known as \"Marsz Polonii\" (\"March Polonia\") spread among Polish immigrants in the Americas.\n\nMass political emigration following the defeat of the November Uprising, known as the Great Emigration, brought \"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\" to Western Europe. It soon found favor from Britain to France to Germany where it was performed as a token of sympathy with the Polish cause. It was also highly esteemed in Central Europe where various, mostly Slavic, peoples struggling for their own independence, looked to the Polish anthem for inspiration. Back in Poland, however, especially in the parts under Russian and Prussian rule, it was becoming increasingly risky to sing the anthem in public. Polish patriotic songs were banned in Prussia in 1850; between 1873 and 1911, German courts passed 44 sentences for singing such songs, 20 of which were specifically for singing \"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\". In Russian Poland, public performance of the song often ended with a police intervention.\n\nWhen Poland re-emerged as an independent state after World War I in 1918, it had to make a decision about its national symbols. While the coat of arms and the flag were officially adopted as soon as 1919, the question of a national anthem had to wait. Apart from \"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\", there were other popular patriotic songs which could compete for the status of an official national anthem.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the role of a national anthem was played by hymns. Among them were \"Bogurodzica\" (), one of the oldest (11th-12th century) known literary texts in Polish, and the Latin \"Gaude Mater Polonia\" (\"Rejoice, Mother Poland\"), written in the 13th century to celebrate the canonization of Bishop Stanislaus of Szczepanów, the patron saint of Poland. Both were chanted on special occasions and on battlefields. The latter is sung nowadays at university ceremonies. During the Renaissance and the Enlightenment, several songs, both religious and secular, were written with the specific purpose of creating a new national anthem. Examples include the 16th-century Latin prayer \"\" (\"Prayer for the Commonwealth and the King\") by a Calvinist poet, Andrzej Trzeciński, and \"\" (\"Hymn to the Love of the Fatherland\") written in 1744 by Prince-Bishop Ignacy Krasicki. They failed, however, to win substantial favor with the populace. Another candidate was \"\" (\"God is Born\"), whose melody was originally a 16th-century coronation polonaise for Polish kings.\n\nThe official anthem of the Russian-controlled Congress Kingdom of Poland was \"\" (\"National Song to the King's Well-being\") written in 1816 by Alojzy Feliński and Jan Kaszewski. Initially unpopular, it evolved in the early 1860s into an important religious and patriotic hymn. The final verse, which originally begged \"Save, Oh Lord, our King\", was substituted with \"Return us, Oh Lord, our free Fatherland\" while the melody was replaced with that of a Marian hymn. The result, known today as \"\" (\"God Save Poland\"), has been sung in Polish churches ever since, with the final verse alternating between \"Return...\" and \"Bless, Oh Lord, our free Fatherland\", depending on Poland's political situation.\n\nA national song that was particularly popular during the November Uprising was \"Warszawianka\", originally written in French as \" by Casimir Delavigne, with melody by Karol Kurpiński. The song praised Polish insurgents taking their ideals from the French July Revolution of 1830. A peasant rebellion against Polish nobles, which took place in western Galicia in 1846 and was encouraged by Austrian authorities who wished to thwart a new uprising attempt, moved Kornel Ujejski to write a mournful chorale entitled \" (\"With the Smoke of Fires\"). With the music composed by , it became one of the most popular national songs of the time, although it declined into obscurity during the 20th century. In 1908, Maria Konopnicka and Feliks Nowowiejski created \"Rota\" (\"The Oath\"), a song protesting against the oppression of the Polish population of the German Empire, who were subject to eviction from their land and forced assimilation. First publicly performed in 1910, during a quincentennial celebration of the Polish–Lithuanian victory over the Teutonic Knights at Grunwald, it too became one of the most treasured national Polish songs.\n\nAt the inauguration of the UN in 1945, no delegation from Poland had been invited. The Polish pianist Artur Rubinstein, who was to perform the opening concert at the inauguration, began the concert by stating his deep disappointment that the conference did not have a delegation from Poland. Rubinstein later described becoming overwhelmed by a blind fury and angrily pointing out to the public the absence of the Polish flag. He then sat down to the piano and played \"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\" loudly and slowly, repeating the final part in a great thunderous \"forte\". When he had finished, the public rose to their feet and gave him a great ovation.\n\nOver 60 years later, on , Aleksander Kwaśniewski, President of Poland, said: \n\nDuring the European Revolutions of 1848, \"Poland Is Not Yet Lost\" won favor throughout Europe as a revolutionary anthem. This led the Slovak poet Samo Tomášik to write the ethnic anthem, \"Hey, Slavs\", based on the melody of the Polish national anthem. It was later adopted by the First Congress of the Pan-Slavic Movement in Prague as the Pan-Slavic Anthem. During the Second World War, a translation of this anthem became the national anthem of Yugoslavia, and later, Serbia and Montenegro. The similarity of the anthems sometimes caused confusion during these countries' football or volleyball matches. However, after the 2006 split between the two, neither Serbia nor Montenegro kept the song as its national anthem, instead choosing \"Bože pravde\" and \"Oj, svijetla majska zoro\" respectively. The Polish anthem is also notable for influencing the lyrics of the Ukrainian anthem, \"Shche ne vmerla Ukraina\" (\"Ukraine's glory has not yet perished\").\n\nThe line \"Poland is not lost yet\" has become proverbial in some languages. For example, in German, \"noch ist Polen nicht verloren\" is a common saying meaning \"all is not lost\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57042997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57042997", "title": "Pravo Ljudski Film Festival", "text": "Pravo Ljudski Film Festival\n\nThe Pravo Ljudski Film Festival () is an annual human rights documentary film festival held in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The name translates to \"Totally Human\". It was established in 2006 with the goal of promoting socially engaged non-fictional audiovisual projects, dedicated to the development of critical spectatorship through socially engaged documentaries and independent art cinema. It is held for two weeks in November. The festival has developed an independent non-profit civic association under the same name. It is the largest festival of its kind in Southeastern Europe.\n\nThe festival takes its roots from a 2005 documentary film screening for students of the European Regional MA in Democracy and Human Rights in South East Europe. It was established one year later as an international documentary festival. The first edition was held in June 2006 and it organized screenings of 17 films, while hosting 7 international filmmakers. The next year's edition widened the program and launched numerous annual workshops as part of the festival. Pravo Ljudski screens over 100 films from 45 different countries a year.\n\nThe festival is made up of several programs, of which only one carries a competition format: the Best New Film program and it awards the Extra Muros Award to the best young director of the festival. The Zoom Rights Youth Program is an experience-sharing platform merging socially engaged cinema and art, youth activism and experiential and non-formal educational opportunities. As an educational program, it functions on three levels: critical (understanding and analysing films and themes covered by different films or artworks through interactive discussions and workshops); cultural (widening youth experiences of film through interactive lectures) and creative (young people creating films themselves). Although the Zoom Rights Youth Program functions as a year-long platform of activities run by the Pravo Ljudski civic association, its festival activities, in the form of a three-day youth festival within the annual Pravo Ljudski Film Festival aimed at audience aged 14 to 25 is the most prominent activity. Central to Zoom Rights is Zoom Documentary Film, which features screenings of creative documentary cinema covering a range of topics. The Zoom Lights is another program that presents socially engaged audio projects from across the world and organizes sound design workshops.\n\nThe A-Lab is an annual multi-discipline workshop designed to promote collaborations between artists that use different media such as photography, film, sound design and animation. It is structured around three creative disciplines – photography, creative documentary film and comic book art. Participants focus on one chosen discipline, but rely on experience sharing and an interdisciplinary approach to execute their respective projects. The working language for all projects must be English.\n\nThe Zoom School is an educational platform created with the goal of supporting public educators in the process of formal and informal education. The program works with primary and secondary school teachers by familiarizing them with audio-visual material and films that can help them in the educational process. The school organizes three-day long seminars four times a year, with an annual symposium being held during the festival. One of the primary goals of the School is developing a sensibility towards independent cinema and audiovisual arts in school children.\n\nPravo Ljudski on the road is an initiative founded by the festival in 2009. It extends the festival's reach by screening its programs in various cities and towns across Bosnia and Herzegovina. The iniative works in cooperation with numerous NGOs and civic associations in the towns that are visited by the festival.\nJugo Film is a film production department established in 2011 by the festival and its sister civic association with the aim of connecting socially engaged filmmakers from the Former Yugoslavia and producing their projects. It has, as of 2018, produced more than 20 documentary films that have been broadcast on Bosnian national television.\n\n"}
{"id": "221554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221554", "title": "Psychogeography", "text": "Psychogeography\n\nPsychogeography is an exploration of urban environments that emphasizes playfulness and \"drifting\". It has links to the Situationist International. Psychogeography was defined in 1955 by Guy Debord as \"the study of the precise laws and specific effects of the geographical environment, consciously organized or not, on the emotions and behavior of individuals.\" It has also been defined as \"a total dissolution of boundaries between art and life\". Another definition is \"a whole toy box full of playful, inventive strategies for exploring cities... just about anything that takes pedestrians off their predictable paths and jolts them into a new awareness of the urban landscape.\"\n\nPsychogeography was originally developed by the avant-garde movement Lettrist International in the journal \"Potlatch\". The originator of what became known as unitary urbanism, psychogeography, and the dérive was Ivan Chtcheglov, in his highly influential 1953 essay \"Formulaire pour un urbanisme nouveau\" (\"Formulary for a New Urbanism\"). The Lettrists' reimagining of the city has its precursors in aspects of Dadaism and Surrealism. The idea of urban wandering relates to the older concept of the flâneur, theorized by Charles Baudelaire. Following Chtcheglov's exclusion from the Lettrists in 1954, Guy Debord and others worked to clarify the concept of unitary urbanism, in a bid to demand a revolutionary approach to architecture. At a conference in Cosio di Arroscia, Italy in 1956, the Lettrists joined the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus to set a proper definition for the idea announced by Gil J. Wolman: \"Unitary Urbanism - the synthesis of art and technology that we call for — must be constructed according to certain new values of life, values which now need to be distinguished and disseminated.\" It demanded the rejection of functional, Euclidean values in architecture, as well as the separation between art and its surroundings. The implication of combining these two negations is that by creating abstraction, one creates art, which, in turn, creates a point of distinction that unitary urbanism insists must be nullified. This confusion is also fundamental to the execution of unitary urbanism as it corrupts one's ability to identify where \"function\" ends and \"play\" (the \"ludic\") begins, resulting in what the Lettrist International and Situationist International believed to be a utopia where one was constantly exploring, free of determining factors.\n\nIn \"Formulary for a New Urbanism\", Chtcheglov had written \"Architecture is the simplest means of articulating time and space, of modulating reality, of engendering dreams\". Similarly, the Situationists found contemporary architecture both physically and ideologically restrictive, combining with outside cultural influence, effectively creating an undertow, and forcing oneself into a certain system of interaction with their environment: \"[C]ities have a psychogeographical relief, with constant currents, fixed points and vortexes which strongly discourage entry into or exit from certain zones\".\n\nThe Situationists' response was to create designs of new urbanized space, promising better opportunities for experimenting through mundane expression. Their intentions remained completely as abstractions. Guy Debord's truest intention was to unify two different factors of \"ambiance\" that, he felt, determined the values of the urban landscape: the soft ambiance — light, sound, time, the association of ideas — with the hard, the actual physical constructions. Debord's vision was a combination of the two realms of opposing ambiance, where the play of the soft ambiance was actively considered in the rendering of the hard. The new space creates a possibility for activity not formerly determined by one besides the individual.\n\nHowever, the Situationist International may have been tongue-in-cheek about some parts of psychogeography. \"This apparently serious term 'psychogeography'\", writes Debord biographer Vincent Kaufman, \"comprises an art of conversation and drunkenness, and everything leads us to believe that Debord excelled at both.\"\n\nEventually, Debord and Asger Jorn resigned themselves to the fate of \"urban relativity\". Debord readily admits in his 1961 film \"A Critique of Separation\", \"The sectors of a city…are decipherable, but the personal meaning they have for us is incommunicable, as is the secrecy of private life in general, regarding which we possess nothing but pitiful documents\". Despite the ambiguity of the theory, Debord committed himself firmly to its practical basis in reality, even as he later confesses, \"none of this is very clear. It is a completely typical drunken monologue…with its vain phrases that do not await response and its overbearing explanations. And its silences.\"\n\nBefore settling on the impossibility of true psychogeography, Debord made another film, \"On the Passage of a Few Persons Through a Rather Brief Unity of Time\" (1959), the title of which suggests its own subject matter. The film's narrated content concerns itself with the evolution of a generally passive group of unnamed people into a fully aware, anarchistic assemblage, and might be perceived as a biography of the situationists themselves. Among the rants which construct the film (regarding art, ignorance, consumerism, militarism) is a desperate call for psychogeographic action:\nMoments later, Debord elaborates on the important goals of unitary urbanism in contemporary society:\nQuoting Karl Marx, Debord says:\nWhile a reading of the texts included in the journal \"Internationale Situationniste\" may lead to an understanding of psychogeography as dictated by Guy Debord, a more comprehensive elucidation of the term would come from research into those who have put its techniques into a more developed practise. While Debord's influence in bringing Chtchglov's text to an international audience is undoubted, his skill with the 'praxis' of unitary urbanism has been placed into question by almost all of the subsequent protagonists of the Formulary's directives. Debord was indeed a notorious drunk (see his Panegyrique, Gallimard 1995) and this altered state of consciousness must be considered along with assertions he made regarding his attempts at psychogeographical activities such as dérive and constructed situation. The researches undertaken by WNLA, AAA and the London Psychogeographical Association during the 1990s support the contention of Asger Jorn and the Scandinavian Situationniste (Drakagygett 1962 - 1998) that the psychogeographical is a concept only known through practise of its techniques. Without undertaking the programme expounded by Chtchglov, and the resultant submission to the urban unknown, comprehension of the Formulary is not possible. As Debord himself suggested, an understanding of the 'beautiful language' of situationist urbanism necessitates its practice.\n\nPsychogeography combines subjective and objective knowledge and studies. Debord struggled to stipulate the finer points of this theoretical paradox, ultimately producing \"Theory of the Dérive\" in 1958, a document which essentially serves as an instruction manual for the psychogeographic procedure, executed through the act of dérive (\"drift\").\n\nIn the SI's 6th issue, Raoul Vaneigem writes in a manifesto of unitary urbanism, \"All space is occupied by the enemy. We are living under a permanent curfew. Not just the cops — the geometry\". Dérive, as a previously conceptualized tactic in the French military, was \"a calculated action determined by the absence of a greater locus\", and \"a maneuver within the enemy's field of vision\". To the SI, whose interest was inhabiting space, the dérive brought appeal in this sense of taking the \"fight\" to the streets and truly indulging in a determined operation. The dérive was a course of preparation, reconnaissance, a means of shaping situationist psychology among urban explorers for the eventuality of the .\n\nSince the 1990s, as situationist theory became popular in artistic and academic circles, avant-garde, neoist, and revolutionary groups emerged, developing psychogeographical praxis in various ways. Influenced primarily through the re-emergence of the London Psychogeographical Association and the foundation of The Workshop for Non-Linear Architecture, these groups have assisted in the development of a contemporary psychogeography.\n\nBetween 1992 and 1996 The Workshop for Non-Linear Architecture undertook an extensive programme of practical research into classic (situationist) psychogeography in both Glasgow and London. The discoveries made during this period, documented in the group's journal \"Viscosity\", expanded the terrain of the psychogeographic into that of urban design and architectural performance.\n\nThe journal \"\" (which appears to have ceased publication sometime in 2000) collated and developed a number of post-avant-garde revolutionary psychogeographical themes. The journal also contributed to the use and development of psychogeographical maps which have, since 2000, been used in political actions, drifts and projections, distributed as flyers. Since 2003 in the United States, separate events known as Provflux and Psy-Geo-conflux have been dedicated to action-based participatory experiments, under the academic umbrella of psychogeography.\n\nPsychogeography also become a device used in performance art and literature. In Britain in particular, psychogeography has become a recognised descriptive term used in discussion of successful writers such as Iain Sinclair and Peter Ackroyd and the documentaries of filmmaker Patrick Keiller. The popularity of Sinclair drew the term into greater public use in the United Kingdom. Though Sinclair makes infrequent use of the jargon associated with the Situationists, he has certainly popularized the term by producing a large body of work based on pedestrian exploration of the urban and suburban landscape. Sinclair and similar thinkers draw on a longstanding British literary tradition of the exploration of urban landscapes, predating the Situationists, found in the work of writers like William Blake, Arthur Machen, and Thomas de Quincey. The nature and history of London were a central focus of these writers, utilising romantic, gothic, and occult ideas to describe and transform the city. Sinclair drew on this tradition combined with his own explorations as a way of criticising modern developments of urban space in such key texts as \"Lights Out for the Territory\". Peter Ackroyd's bestselling \"London: A Biography\" was partially based on similar sources. Merlin Coverley gives equal prominence to this literary tradition alongside Situationism in his 2006 book \"Psychogeography\", not only recognising that the situationist origins of psychogeography are sometimes forgotten, but that via certain writers like Edgar Allan Poe, Daniel Defoe, and Charles Baudelaire, they had a shared tradition. Novelist Will Self had a column \"Psychogeography\" which started out in the British Airways Inflight magazine and then appeared weekly in the Saturday magazine of \"The Independent\" newspaper until October 2008.\n\nThe concepts and themes seen in popular comics writers such as Alan Moore in works like \"From Hell\" are also now seen as significant works of psychogeography. Other key figures in this version of the idea are Walter Benjamin, J. G. Ballard, and Nicholas Hawksmoor. Part of this development saw increasing use of ideas and terminology by some psychogeographers from Fortean and occult areas like earth mysteries, ley lines, and chaos magic, a course pioneered by Sinclair. A core element in virtually all these developments remains a dissatisfaction with the nature and design of the modern environment and a desire to make the everyday world more interesting.\n\nAfter a few years of practicing, the psychogeography group that gravitates around the Urban Squares Initiative and Aleksandar Janicijevic, the initiator of, and main figure in organizing and leading this group, came up with the working definition of this procedure as: \"The subjective analysis–mental reaction, to neighbourhood behaviours related to geographic location. A chronological process based on the order of appearance of observed topics, with the time delayed inclusion of other relevant instances\". In 2013 Aleksandar Janicijevic published \"Urbis - Language of the urban fabric\" as a visual attempt to rediscover lost or neglected urban symbols. In 2015 another book was published \"MyPsychogeography\", an attempt to synthesize sketches and ideas which have informed his art practice.\n\nTo facilitate making dérives, a number of applications for mobile devices have been created over the last few years. Most notably, Dérive app, Serendipitor, Drift, and Random GPS\n\nPsychogeography is practiced both experimentally and formally in groups or associations, which sometimes consist of just one member. Known groups, some of whom are still operating, include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45602626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45602626", "title": "Samshvilde Sioni inscription", "text": "Samshvilde Sioni inscription\n\nThe Samshvilde Sioni inscription () is the Georgian language inscription written in the Georgian \"Asomtavruli\" script on the Sioni Church in Samshvilde, a ruined basilica located in the Tetritsqaro Municipality, Kvemo Kartli, Georgia. Originally the inscription was 35 \"metres\" long but only 10 metres of inscription survived. The inscription mentions Georgian \"eristavis\" Varaz-Bakur and Iovane and two Byzantine Emperors, Constantine V and Leo IV the Khazar.\n\n\nSeveral scholars differently dated the inscription because of its damage. Sargis Kakabadze dates it to 778 AD, Giorgi Chubinashvili - 8th century, Ekvtime Takaishvili - 958 AD, where Marie-Félicité Brosset thought the inscription was dated to 1313 AD.\n"}
{"id": "2622964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2622964", "title": "Scabbling", "text": "Scabbling\n\nScabbling—also called scappling—is the process of reducing stone or concrete. In masonry, it refers to shaping a stone to a rough square by use of an axe or hammer. In Kent, rag-stone masons call this \"knobbling\". It was similarly used to shape grindstones. \n\nIn modern construction, scabbling is a mechanical process of removing a thin layer of concrete from a structure, typically achieved by compressed air powered machines. A typical scabbling machine uses several heads, each with several carbide or steel tips that peck at the concrete. It operates by pounding a number of tipped rods down onto the concrete surface in rapid succession. It takes several passes with the machine to achieve the desired depth. \n\nScabbling is used to remove road markings, surface contamination (used in the nuclear industry), to add a decorative or textured pattern to concrete, or to prepare a concrete surface prior to the installation of grout.\n"}
{"id": "4148103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4148103", "title": "Southern man", "text": "Southern man\n\nIn New Zealand, the southern man is a stereotypical male from the more rural south island, well used to the solitude and conditions of open mountain or hill country, and completely out of his depth in the city. He is usually depicted as wearing an oilskin duster, Swanndri and slouch hat, an image closely related to Kiwi stockmen. This stereotype is closely connected with a common trope in New Zealand fiction, the man alone. \n\nThe stereotype draws on images of high country farmers and hunters, particularly from areas such as Central Otago and the Mackenzie Basin, who work large sheep stations, often employing the horse and dog rather than mechanised transport, due to the terrain they have to cover. This archetypal New Zealand character, though strong in tradition, is one currently facing a threat to its existence in the real world, thanks to changes in New Zealand's traditional rural ways of life.\n\nThe stereotype became better known through the advertising campaign of Otago's best known pale lager beer, Speight's, in a series of advertisements which have been running since the early 1990s. Speight's sponsored the production of a bronze statue personifying the stereotype, \"Southern Man\" by Sam Mahon, which has stood at the entrance to Dunedin International Airport since 2000.\n\nThe stereotype was later acknowledged in a song regarded as an unofficial anthem of Dunedin City and Otago in general. Written by Ad Agency Creative Director, Roy Meares, produced and sung by Murray Grindlay. This song was performed for Otago Rugby and Speight's Breweries by local musician Denis Henderson. The southern man has also been connected with stage productions such as \"Richard Meros salutes the Southern Man\".\n\nThe semi-autobiographical novels of Barry Crump, though set in the North Island, conform strongly to the southern man stereotype. The character of Uncle Hec (played by Sam Neill) in the Taika Waititi film \"Hunt for the Wilderpeople\" — based on a Crump novel — is a big-screen personification of the southern man character.\n"}
{"id": "6506732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6506732", "title": "Spanish era", "text": "Spanish era\n\nThe Spanish era or era of Caesar was a dating system commonly used in the states of the Iberian peninsula until the 14th–15th centuries, when it was phased out in favour the \"Anno Domini\" system. The calendar began with year one in what is 38 BC, possibly the date of a new tax imposed by the Roman Republic on the subdued population of Iberia. Whatever the case, the date signifies the beginning of the \"Pax Romana\" in Iberia. To convert from an \"Anno Domini\" date to the corresponding year in the Spanish era, add 38 to the \"Anno Domini\" year. A date in the Spanish era was written thus: \"Era CMXLI\" for \"anno domini 903\".\n\nThe use of the Caesar Era probably began in Iberia in the 3rd century. The reason for its particular popularity is unknown. Official usage ceased in different parts of the Iberian peninsula at different times: in Aragon in 1349, Valencia 1358, Castile 1383 and Portugal 1422. While the year officially began on 1 January under the Spanish era, that was changed to 25 December when the \"Anno Domini\" system was adopted. (The church, however, used 11 January.)\n\n"}
{"id": "1739229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1739229", "title": "Synthetic phonics", "text": "Synthetic phonics\n\nSynthetic phonics (UK) or blended phonics (US), also known as inductive phonics, is a method of teaching reading which first teaches the letter sounds and then builds up to blending these sounds together to achieve full pronunciation of whole words. This article relates to the English language only.\n\nSynthetic phonics refers to a family of programs which aim to teach literacy through the following methods:\n\nSynthetic phonics programs have some or all of the following characteristics:\n\nSynthetic phonics programs do not have the following characteristics:\n\nSynthetic phonics teaches the phonemes (sounds) associated with the graphemes (letters) at the rate of about six sounds per week. The sounds are taught in isolation then blended together (i.e. synthesised), all-through-the-word. For example, learners might be taught a short vowel sound (e.g. /a/) in addition to some consonant sounds (e.g. /s/, /t/, /p/). Then the learners are taught words with these sounds (e.g. sat, pat, tap, at). They are taught to pronounce each phoneme in a word, then to blend the phonemes together to form the word (e.g. /s/ - /a/ - /t/; \"sat\"). Sounds are taught in all positions of the words, but the emphasis is on all-through-the-word segmenting and blending from week one. It does not teach whole words as shapes (initial sight vocabulary) prior to learning the alphabetic code.\n\nSynthetic phonics develops phonemic awareness along with the corresponding letter shapes. It involves the learners rehearsing the writing of letter shapes alongside learning the letter/s-sound correspondences preferably with the tripod pencil grip. Dictation is a frequent teaching technique from letter level to word spelling, including nonsense words (e.g. choy and feep) and eventually extending to text level. It does not teach letter names until the learners know their letter/s-sound correspondences thoroughly and how to blend for reading and segment for spelling. Often when letter names are introduced it is through singing an alphabet song.\n\nSynthetic phonics teaches phonics at the level of the individual phoneme from the outset; not syllables and not onset and rime. Synthetic phonics does not teach anything about reading as a meaning-focused process. It highlights decoding and pronunciation of words only. Teachers are to put accuracy before speed, because fluency (i.e. speed, accuracy,expression, and comprehension) will come with time.\n\nSynthetic phonics involves the teaching of the transparent alphabet (e.g. /k/ as in \"cat\") before progressing onto the opaque alphabet (e.g. /k/ as in \"school\"). In other words, learners are taught steps which are straightforward and 'work' before being taught the complications and variations of pronunciation and spelling of the full alphabetic code. It introduces irregular words and more tricky words (defined as words which cannot be pronounced phonically – English has a surprisingly large number of these, usually the commonest words of all such as 'to', 'of', etc.) slowly and systematically after a thorough introduction of the transparent alphabet code (learning the 44 letter/s-sound correspondences to automaticity and how to blend for reading and segment for spelling). Phonics application still works at least in part in such words.\n\nSynthetic phonics involves a heavy emphasis on hearing the sounds all-through-the-word for spelling and not an emphasis on \"look, cover, write, check\". This latter, visual form of spelling plays a larger part with unusual spellings and spelling variations although a phonemic procedure is always emphasised in spelling generally. Teachers read a full range of literature with the learners and ensure that all learners have a full range of experience of activities associated with literacy such as role play, drama, poetry, but the learners are not expected to 'read' text which is beyond them, and the method does not involve guessing at words from context, picture and initial letter clues.\n\n\n\nSystematic phonics is not one specific method of teaching phonics; rather, it is a family of phonics instruction that includes the methods of both synthetic phonics and analytical phonics. They are \"systematic\" because the letters, and the sounds they relate to, are taught in a specific sequence; as opposed to incidentally or on a 'when-needed' basis. However, it should be noted that, in most instances, the term systematic phonics appears to refer to synthetic phonics because of the specific instruction methods it uses. (In the United Kingdom, the term \"systematic phonics\" is \"generally understood as synthetic phonics\" according to the reading review which was conducted in 2006.)\n\nSystematic phonics does \"not\" include methods such as \"embedded phonics\" and \"phonics mini lessons\" which are found in the \"Whole Language\" approach and the \"Balanced Literacy\" approach.\n\nAnalytical phonics practitioners do not teach learners to pronounce sounds \"in isolation\" as is the practice with Synthetic Phonics. Furthermore, consonant blends (separate, adjacent consonant phonemes) are taught as units (e.g., in the word 'shrouds' the shr would be taught as a unit). Some analytical phonics programs (referred to as analogy phonics) teach learners to break-down words into their common components which are referred to as the \"onset\" and the \"rime\". In the word \"ship\", \"sh\" is the \"onset\" and \"ip\" is the \"rime\" (the part starting with the vowel). In other words, analytical phonics teaches the learner to say /sh/ - /ip/ (ship) and /sh/ - /op/ (shop), whereas synthetic phonics, teaches the learner to say /sh/ - /i/ - /p/ (ship) and /sh/ - /o/ - /p/ (shop). In analytical phonics, learners are also taught to find the similarities among words (e.g. man, can, tan, fan, and ran), whereas synthetic phonics devotes most of its time to learning the letter/sound relationships (i.e. grapheme/phoneme).\n\nSynthetic Phonics uses the concept of 'synthesising', which means 'putting together' or 'blending'. Simply put, the sounds prompted by the letters are synthesised (put together or blended) to pronounce the word.\n\nSome common terminology used within this article includes:\n\nThe teaching of reading and writing has varied over the years from spelling and phonetic methods to the fashions for look-say and whole language methods. In America in the eighteenth century, Noah Webster introduced spelling approaches with syllabaries and in England the use of James Pitman's Initial Teaching Alphabet was popular in the 1960s. Recently phonic methods have been revived.\n\nIn December 2005 the Department of Education, Science and Training of the Australian Government published a report entitled a National Inquiry into the Teaching of Reading. The report recommends direct and systematic instruction in phonics as the foundation of early reading instruction. Some of the findings (not always supported by reliable evidence) are:\n\n\nIn Canada, public education is the responsibility of the Provincial and Territorial governments. There is no evidence that \"systematic phonics (including synthetic phonics)\" has been specifically adopted by any of these jurisdictions. However, the curriculum of all of the Canadian provinces include most or all of the following: phonics, phonological awareness, segmenting and blending, decoding, phonemic awareness, graphophonic cues, and letter-sound relationships. In addition, systematic phonics and synthetic phonics received attention in the following publications:\n\n\nA review of the teaching of early reading was undertaken by Sir Jim Rose at the request of the Department for Education. While the report often uses the term \"\"Systematic\" Phonic work\", it appears to support \"\"Synthetic\" Phonics\" as evidenced in the Rose Review. In fact, the Department of Education, England uses the term \"systematic synthetic phonics\". The following is a summary of the report's observations and recommendations concerning phonics:\n\n\n\nEducation Scotland found that explicit, systematic phonics programs, usually embedded in a rich literacy environment, give an additional four months progress over other programs such as whole language, and are particularly beneficial for young learners (aged 4–7). There is evidence, though less secure, that synthetic phonics programs may be more beneficial than analytical phonics programs; however it is more important to systematically teach to the children's needs.\n\nSynthetic phonics in Scotland has its roots in the Clackmannanshire Report, a seven-year study that was published in 2005. Critics of the report claim that the results were exaggerated and due to more than just synthetic phonics.\n\nThe United States has a long history of debate concerning the various methods used to teach reading, including Phonics. In 1999, The \"National Institute of Child Health and Human Development\" (NICHD) appears to conclude that systematic phonics programs are \"significantly more effective\" than non-phonics programs. It also concludes that they found no significant difference between the different phonics approaches, while suggesting that more evidence may be required.\n\nThe NICHD has come out in support of phonics instruction. The institute conducts and supports research on all stages of human development. The institute conducted a meta-analysis and, in 2000 it published a report entitled \"Report of the National Reading Panel: Teaching Children to Read\". Some \"findings and determinations\" of this report are:\n\n\nOther findings of this report are:\n\n\nIn 2014 the California Department of Education stated \"Ensuring that children know how to decode regularly spelled one-syllable words by mid-first grade is crucial\". It goes on to say that \"Children need to be phonemically aware (especially able to segment and blend phonemes)\". The skills of segmenting and blending phonemes are a central aspect of synthetic phonics. In grades two and three children receive explicit instruction in advanced phonic-analysis and reading multi-syllabic and more complex words.\n\nIn 2015 the New York State Public School system began a process to revise its English Language Arts Learning Standards. The new standards call for teaching involving \"reading or literacy experiences\" as well as phonemic awareness from prekindergarten to grade 1 and phonics and word recognition from grade 1 to grade 4.\n\nIn 2015 the Ohio Legislature set minimum standards requiring the use of phonics as a technique in teaching reading. It includes guidelines for teaching phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, vocabulary and comprehension.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1270984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1270984", "title": "Taijin kyofusho", "text": "Taijin kyofusho\n\nTaijin kyofusho (対人恐怖症 taijin kyōfushō, TKS, for \"taijin kyofusho symptoms\") is a Japanese culture-specific syndrome. The term taijin kyofusho translates into the disorder (sho) of fear (kyofu) of interpersonal relations (taijin). Those who have taijin kyofusho are likely to be extremely embarrassed about themselves or fearful of displeasing others when it comes to the functions of their bodies or their appearances. These bodily functions and appearances include their faces, odor, actions, or even looks. They do not want to embarrass other people with their presence. This culture-bound syndrome is a social phobia based on fear and anxiety.\n\nThe symptoms of this disorder include avoiding social outings and activities, rapid heartbeat, shortness of breath, panic attacks, trembling, and feelings of dread and panic when around people. The causes of this disorder are mainly from emotional trauma or psychological defense mechanism. It is more common in men than women. Lifetime prevalence is estimated at 3–13%.\n\n\"Taijin kyofusho\" is commonly described as a form of social anxiety (social phobia), with the person dreading and avoiding social contact, and as a subtype of \"shinkeishitsu\" (anxiety disorder). However, instead of a fear of embarrassing themselves or being harshly judged by others because of their social ineptness, sufferers of \"taijin kyofusho\" report a fear of offending or harming other people. The focus is thus on avoiding harm to others rather than to oneself.\n\nIn the fifth edition of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-5), variants of \"taijin kyofusho\" (shubo-kyofu and jikoshu-kyofu) are listed under 300.3 (F42) \"Other Specified Obsessive-Compulsive and Related Disorders\".\n\nOne source even breaks \"taijin kyofusho\" into two different subtypes: neurotic and offensive. The first subtype can be broken into two parts that are classical type and avoidant type. The classical type being afraid of being judged negatively because of physical signs of anxiety and feeling shame due to anxiety. The physical signs that can cause fear of being judged include sweating and tremors. The second subtype deals with people thinking something about them is offensive. Some of their fears include body odor, gas, excessive or insufficient eye contact, blushing, etc.\n\nIn the official Japanese diagnostic system, \"taijin kyofusho\" is subdivided into the following categories:\n\n\nJapan psychology also recognizes additional types of \"taijin kyofusho\" based on severity:\n\n\nTypically, this disease is presaged by a childhood history of social inhibition and shyness. It is possible that it could result from a humiliating traumatic experience, or it could emerge from a lifelong onset of the illness that only comes to the surface after time.\n\nClinical data indicates that more males have the condition than females, despite the fact that females scored higher on a social phobia scale than men, and report higher scores on proclivity towards feelings of embarrassment. This differs from Western society where the prevalence of females with social phobias is to some extent greater than that of males. The lifetime prevalence of the disorder falls anywhere between 3% and 13% with changes in severity occurring throughout one's lifetime. It is estimated that about 17% of individuals with taijin kyofusho have fears of releasing foul body odor.\n\nA person may be diagnosed with taijin kyofusho if they feel as if their attitudes, behavior, and physical characteristics are inadequate in social situations. As a result of these feelings, they also experience persistent suffering in the form of emotional distress through shame, embarrassment, anxiety, fear, and other tense feelings that occur when confronted with social circumstances. In addition, individuals also worry about being unable to maintain healthy relationships with others. When it comes to socializing, taijin kyofusho sufferers avoid painful social and interpersonal situations, while simultaneously being averse to doing so. Those likely to develop taijin kyofusho have more of a temperamental characteristic of being hypochondriacal. The balance between introversion and extroversion in hypochondriacal temperament is geared more towards introversion. The introversion causes sufferers to focus on themself and problems they have, and by fixating on their weaknesses they become more anxious and depressed.\n\nA problem with culture-bound syndromes is that they are resistant to some medicine.} The standard Japanese treatment for taijin kyofusho is Morita therapy, developed by Shoma Morita in the 1910s as a treatment for the Japanese mental disorders taijin kyofusho and shinkeishitsu (nervousness). The original regimen involved patient isolation, enforced bed rest, diary writing, manual labor, and lectures on the importance of self-acceptance and positive endeavor. Since the 1930s, the treatment has been modified to include out-patient and group treatments. This modified version is known as neo-Morita therapy. Medications have also gained acceptance as a treatment option for taijin kyofusho. Other treatments include systematic desensitization, which includes slowly exposing one self to the fear, and learning relaxation skills, to extinguish fear and anxiety.\n\nMilnacipran, a serotonin–norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), is currently used in the treatment of taijin kyofusho and has been shown to be efficacious for the related social anxiety disorder. The primary aspect of treating this disorder is getting patients to focus their attention on their body parts and sensations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3915403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3915403", "title": "Team Galaxy (TV series)", "text": "Team Galaxy (TV series)\n\nTeam Galaxy, le Collège de l'Espace or Galaxie Académie (in Quebec) is a French-Italian-Canadian animated series made by Marathon Production, Rai Fiction and Image Entertainment Corporation. It blends 2D animation with CG elements, and is set at \"Galaxy High\" (not to be confused with the school in the 1980s animated series of the same name), where a trio of young students try to balance their regular teenage lives and their training to become Space Marshals. The concept and animation style is similar to that of both \"Totally Spies!\" and \"Martin Mystery\", other series created by the same production company.\n\n\"Team Galaxy\" is co-produced by a number of international broadcasters, such as France 3 which was the first to begin airing the full series from 28 August 2006. In the United States, Cartoon Network paid Marathon about $16–$17 million for 52 episodes, for a premiere in fall 2006. It also appears on Canada's YTV and CBBC/Disney XD in the UK.\n\n\"Team Galaxy\" is about a group of friends who try to balance both their school work and their free time. The three protagonists, Josh, Yoko, and Brett, are among the students of a school called \"Galaxy High\", a galactic justice authority, which defends the galaxy against criminals. The school teaches subjects suitable for these types of missions, which their students endure. The series apparently takes place during the present day, but in an episode where they go through a time skip, a calendar says that the year is 2051, hinting that the actual series takes place in 2050.\n\nSince the final 3 episodes of season 2 of Team Galaxy 'Predator Plants from Outer Space', a new plot has been introduced where Omni, an android as well as a student of another space school, is searching for his fellow schoolmates after his school has been destroyed by an alien bounty hunter named Gangus. He is convinced to stay at Galaxy High for the time being and is promised by Josh, Brett, Yoko, and the rest of GH to help him. Unfortunately, due to the show currently ending at 52 episodes, this plot hasn't been addressed any further.\n\n\n\nOn the first day of school at Galaxy High, each student is assigned a pet robot that serves as an aide and companion to them. Although they’re cute, if provoked an Ultrapet can transform into a powerful fighting machine and, in the blink of an eye, can immobilize an alien foe upon its master’s orders.\n\n\nMassive aerospace aircraft carrier, owned by Galaxy High. The ship serves as the personal flagship of Director Kirkpatrick. Its main purpose is the transportation of Defenders at a distance exceeding the radius of autonomous flight. For some missions the ship carries \"Hornets\", which have a much greater range of flight.\n\nsource:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3096137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3096137", "title": "The Number Devil", "text": "The Number Devil\n\nThe Number Devil: A Mathematical Adventure () is a book for children and young adults that explores mathematics. It was originally written in 1997 in German by Hans Magnus Enzensberger and illustrated by Rotraut Susanne Berner. The book follows a young boy named Robert, who is taught mathematics by a sly \"number devil\" called Teplotaxl over the course of twelve dreams.\n\nThe book was met with mostly positive reviews from critics, approving its description of math while praising its simplicity. Its colorful use of fictional mathematical terms and its creative descriptions of concepts have made it a suggested book for both children and adults troubled with math. \"The Number Devil\" was a bestseller in Europe, and has been translated into English by Michael Henry Heim.\n\nRobert is a young boy who suffers from mathematical anxiety due to his boredom in school. His mother is Mrs. Wilson. He also experiences recurring dreams—including falling down an endless slide or being eaten by a giant fish—but is interrupted from this sleep habit one night by a small devil creature who introduces himself as the Number Devil. Although there are many Number Devils (from Number Heaven), Robert only knows him as the Number Devil before learning of his actual name, Teplotaxl, later in the story.\n\nOver the course of twelve dreams, the Number Devil teaches Robert mathematical principles. On the first night, the Number Devil appears to Robert in an oversized world and introduces the number one. The next night, the Number Devil emerges in a forest of trees shaped like \"ones\" and explains the necessity of the number zero, negative numbers, and introduces \"hopping\", a fictional term to describe exponentiation. On the third night, the Number Devil brings Robert to a cave and reveals how \"prima-donna\" numbers (prime numbers) can only be divided by themselves and one without a remainder. Later, on the fourth night, the Number Devil teaches Robert about \"rutabagas\", another fictional term to depict square roots, at a beach.\n\nFor a time after the fourth night, Robert cannot find the Number Devil in his dreams; later, however, on the fifth night, Robert finds himself at a desert where the Number Devil teaches him about triangular numbers through the use of coconuts. On the sixth night, the Number Devil teaches Robert about the natural occurrence of Fibonacci numbers, which the Number Devil shortens to \"Bonacci numbers\", by counting brown and white rabbits as they reproduce multiple times. By this dream, Robert's mother has noticed a visible change in Robert's mathematical interest, and Robert begins going to sleep earlier to encounter the Number Devil. The seventh night brings Robert to a bare, white room, where the Number Devil presents Pascal's triangle and the patterns that the triangular array displays. On the eighth night, Robert is brought to his classroom at school. The Number Devil arranges Robert's classmates in multiple ways, teaches him about permutations, and what the Number Devil calls \"vroom numbers\" (factorials).\n\nOn the ninth night, Robert dreams he is in bed, suffering from the flu, when the Number Devil appears next to him. The Number Devil teaches Robert about natural numbers, which the Number Devil calls \"garden-variety numbers\", the unusual characteristics of infinite, and infinite series. Robert finds himself at the North Pole, where the Number Devil introduces irrational numbers (\"unreasonable numbers\"), as well as aspects of Euclidean geometry, such as vertices (\"dots\") and edges (\"lines\"). By the eleventh night, Robert has shown considerable increased interest in mathematics, but questions its validity, to which the Number Devil introduces the concept of mathematical proofs, ending with the Number Devil showing Robert a complicated proof of basic arithmetic. On the twelfth night, Robert and the Number Devil receive an invitation (which names the Number Devil as Teplotaxl) to Number Heaven, as Robert's time with the Number Devil has finished. At Number Heaven, Robert learns of imaginary numbers, which Teplotaxl describes as \"imaginative numbers\", as well as the Klein bottle. Walking through Number Heaven, Teplotaxl introduces Robert to various famous mathematicians, such as Fibonacci, whom Teplotaxl calls \"Bonacci\", and George Cantor, or \"Professor Singer\". The book ends with Robert in class using his newfound mathematical knowledge.\n\nEnzensberger fostered a passion for mathematics and numbers, although he was not a mathematician by trade. In 1998, he delivered a speech at the International Congress of Mathematicians criticizing the isolation of mathematics from popular culture. \"The Number Devil\" was ultimately written on suggestion from Enzensberger's eleven-year-old daughter Theresia. Because he was displeased with the way mathematics was taught to students at school, the German author decided to pen a book that teaches mathematics in an innovative way. German illustrator Rotraut Susanne Berner provided many full-page illustrations, as well as smaller drawings, for the book. \"The Number Devil\" was first published in German in 1997. \"The Number Devil\" has been noted for its unorthodox abandonment of standard notation; instead, Enzensberger created a variety of fictional terms to help describe mathematical concepts. For instance, exponentiation takes the term \"hopping\", and the fictional term \"unreasonable numbers\" was coined for irrational numbers. The UCLA Professor of Slavic Languages Michael Henry Heim translated the book from German to English. The translation was particularly difficult in that it required special attention to the numerical aspect of the book. He was also challenged by the necessity to use simple English words appropriate for the target audience of \"The Number Devil\"—that is, children aged eleven to fourteen. The mathematics book was then published in English in 1998.\n\nThe book was a hit across Europe, becoming a best seller in at least Spain, Germany, the Netherlands, and Italy. \"The Number Devil\" also had considerable success in Japan. After the success of \"The Number Devil\", Enzensberger wrote a follow-up, called \"Where Were You, Robert?\", a children's book focusing on history rather than math. The German author has since stated he will not write any more young adult's books, but instead direct his effort towards poetry. Viva Media later published an educational computer game, similarly titled \"The Number Devil: A Mathematical Adventure\", based on the book. An audiobook was also released for \"The Number Devil\".\n\n\"The Number Devil\" received mostly positive reviews from critics. Mathematics professor John Allen Paulos of Temple University wrote an article for \"The New York Review of Books\", praising \"The Number Devil\" as a \"charming numerical fairy tale for children.\" Likewise, mathematics writer Martin Gardner of the \"Los Angeles Times\" applauded Enzensberger's introduction of mathematics \"in such an entertaining way.\" In a book review for \"The Baltimore Sun\", Michael Pakenham approved of the book's simplicity, writing, \"it's not incomprehensible. Not for a minute.\"\n\nNot all reviews were positive, however. The American Mathematical Society's Deborah Loewenberg Ball and Hyman Bass reviewed the book from a mathematical perspective. Although they praised its \"attractive and imaginative fantasy,\" the two mathematicians found several issues. Ball and Bass were concerned with \"The Number Devil\" negative characterization of math teachers, its apparent presentation of mathematics as magical rather than factual, and a number of other contentions. Ted Dewan, writing for the \"Times Educational Supplement\", believed it to be \"far more compelling than a standard text,\" but found it less adventurous than he hoped for. He also criticized its use in mathematics education, stating \"I suspect this is the sort of book that well-meaning adults will mistakenly thrust upon children because it will be good for them.\"\n"}
{"id": "56111881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56111881", "title": "Ti Shqipëri, më jep nder, më jep emrin Shqipëtar", "text": "Ti Shqipëri, më jep nder, më jep emrin Shqipëtar\n\nTi Shqipëri, më jep nder, më jep emrin Shqipëtar (English for \"You Albania, give me honour, give me the name Albanian\") is the national motto of Albania.\n\n"}
{"id": "18313999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18313999", "title": "Venetian literature", "text": "Venetian literature\n\nVenetian literature is the corpus of literature in Venetian, the vernacular language of the region roughly corresponding to Venice, from the 12th century. Venetian literature, after an initial period of splendour in the sixteenth century with the success of artists such as Ruzante, reached its zenith in the eighteenth century, thanks to its greatest exponent, dramatist Carlo Goldoni. Subsequently, the literary production in Venetian underwent a period of decline following the collapse of the Republic of Venice, but survived nonetheless into the twentieth century to reach peaks with wonderful lyrical poets such as Biagio Marin of Grado.\n\nThe first evidence of the birth of vernacular Venetian (and Italian) is the Veronese Riddle, dating between the end of the eighth and the early ninth century, written in a language halfway between Latin and the vernacular.\n\nThe first fragment entirely in Venetian, dating to circa 1198, is the \"Ritmo bellunese\" which deals with events at Belluno in the years 1183 to 1196.\n\nAlso dating to the twelfth century are the verses of the love song \"Quando eu stava in le tu' cathene\".\n\nIn the thirteenth century we witness in the Venetian an explosion of compositions designed to meet the literary tastes of the emerging urban classes. Especially remarkable is the production of the \"Veronese School\", with Giacomino da Verona, author of the poem in two parts, \"De Gerusalem Celesti\" (\"On the Heavenly Jerusalem\") and \"De Babilonia Civitate Infernali\" (\"On Babylon, the Infernal City\"). Published anonymously from this era are \"Lamento della Sposa Padovana\" or \"Bona çilosia\"\n\nThroughout the 14th century, the centre of literary production Venetian continued to be Padua. At the end of the 14th century, Count Carraresi commissioned \"Bibbia Istoriata Padovana\" and \"Liber agregà of Serapion\" also called \"Erbario Carrarese\" (held at the British Library, London), a translation from the Latin \"Carrara Herbarium\", a treatise of medicine originally in Arabic. An important writer from this period is Francesco di Vannozzo (~1330-1389).\n\n\"Cronaca de la guera tra Veniciani e Zenovesi\" by Daniele da Chinazzo is a chronicle of the War of Chioggia between 1379 and 1381.\n\nOriginal works of the fourteenth century include those that go together under the name of Franco-Venetian literature characterized by a unique mix of vulgar Venetian with medieval French. Among the best known works are the anonymously authored l\"Entrée d'Espagne\" and its continuation, \"La prise de Pampelune\" by Niccolò da Verona.\n\nNotable is a manuscript titled \"Dialogue ... on the New star\" attributed to Galileo (1564–1642). \n\nThe language enjoyed substantial prestige in the days of the Venetian Republic, when it attained the status of a lingua franca in the Mediterranean. Notable Venetian-language authors are the playwrights Ruzante (1502–1542) and Carlo Goldoni (1707–1793). Both Ruzante and Goldoni, following the old Italian theater tradition (\"Commedia dell'Arte\"), used Venetian in their comedies as the speech of the common folk. They are ranked among the foremost Italian theatrical authors of all time, and Goldoni's plays are still performed today. Other notable works in Venetian are the translations of the Iliad by Casanova (1725–1798) and Francesco Boaretti, and the poems of Biagio Marin (1891–1985). \n\nNowadays Venetian is still vigorous even in Brazil, where it is called Talian. This Venetian language version, spoken by hundreds of thousands of emigrants from Veneto living in Brasil, is written by dozens of writers, especially in Rio Grando and Santa Cattarina.\n\n"}
{"id": "41390850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41390850", "title": "Wassmann Foundation", "text": "Wassmann Foundation\n\nThe Wassmann Foundation, Washington, D.C, is an arts collective based in Melbourne, Australia. Founded in 2001, the collective has a rotating membership from a range of fields, including artists, writers, curators, musicians and film-makers. The foundation oversees the estate of the fictitious Leipzig modernist and sewerage engineer Johann Dieter Wassmann (1841–1898). More broadly, it uses its art practice to call into question the growing role of artist, curator and art institution alike, as interconnected and synergetic brands.\n\nThe Wassmann Foundation was publicly launched at the Melbourne International Arts Festival in 2003 in an exhibition titled \"Bleeding Napoleon.\" The works of Johann Dieter Wassmann were exhibited by the Wassmann Foundation across three floors of the 19th century Old Melbourne Observatory in a show curated by Kirsten Rann and overseen by Juliana Engberg (curator of the Sydney Biennale 2014). All works were by the American assemblage artist Jeff Wassmann. A website was established to coincide with the exhibition, which still exists today.\n\nThe popularity of the website gave rise to a range of new media efforts on the part of collective members including blogs, videos, MySpace and later Facebook sites. After the U.S. Department of State withdrew funding from the Venice Biennale's American Pavilion in August 2004, the Wassmann Foundation turned lobbyist, leading an email campaign from \"inside the Beltway\" to successfully reinstate funding to the Pavilion.\n\nIn 2006 Film Victoria provided a funding grant from the Documentary Development program to pursue the project as a film. In the same year it was decided to add photography to the character's talents. Jeff Wassmann travelled extensively through eastern Germany in March and April of that year photographing the landscapes and cityscapes in a style recognizable as turn-of-the-century modernist. \nMuseumZeitraum Leipzig was also created in the same year, ostensibly by a disgruntled employee of the Wassmann Foundation who convinced Leipzig relatives to fight for the repatriation of the character's work to Germany. The Foundation agreed to repatriate all assemblage works in November 2007. In its November 1 issue, the art blog ArtInfo announced:\nDuring these years MuseumZeitraum operated a highly popular English-language blog out of Leipzig reporting on contemporary art in eastern Europe.\n\nWith Deductible Gift Recipient status from the Australian Tax Office, the Wassmann Foundation has also financed many outside performance and theater groups.\n\nAccording to the Foundation's fictional narrative, the key character, Johann Dieter Wassmann, had a number of siblings who were also involved in music and the arts. The work of these further characters is now being developed by revolving members of the collective. Most recently, the collective has begun distributing portfolios of the character's photographic works to museums around the world.\n\nThe Wassmann Foundation is part of a long history of artists using fictional identities in contemporary art, although the practice has not been as widely accepted as the use of pseudonyms in the literary world, where a much richer and more established tradition has prospered.\n\nRrose Sélavy was the pseudonym used by the artist Marcel Duchamp in the 1920s. In the late 1990s, the artist Walid Raad began constructing elaborate fictions chronicling the contemporary history of his native Lebanon, signing his work The Atlas Group and presenting it as a body of collective scholarship. In 2004 the Bruce High Quality Foundation, an anonymous artists collective made up of former Cooper Union students, began a highly ambitious practice in New York. In 2013 the Brooklyn Museum showed a retrospective of the collective's work and later in the year a silkscreen by the group, \"Hooverville,\" depicting the New York City skyline with hobos, sold at Sotheby's for $425,000. Banksy is the pseudonym of a Bristol-born graffiti artist and political activist working since the late 1980s. For over twenty years Banksy has successfully hidden his identity from the general public.\n"}
{"id": "4068416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4068416", "title": "Welsh Language Act 1967", "text": "Welsh Language Act 1967\n\nThe Welsh Language Act 1967, is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which gave some rights to use the Welsh language in legal proceedings in Wales (including Monmouthshire) and gave the relevant Minister the right to authorise the production of a Welsh version of any documents required or allowed by the Act. \n\nThe Welsh Language Act 1967 is a short Act, consisting of a Preamble and five sections. The Preamble states that \"it is proper that the Welsh language should be freely used by those who so desire in the hearing of legal proceedings in Wales\". The first section gives the right to use Welsh orally in court proceedings in Wales provided that the person who wishes to do so has notified the court in advance. The second and third sections allowed but did not require Ministers to provide Welsh versions of forms or wordings. The fourth section of the Act repealed the provision in Part 3 of the Wales and Berwick Act 1746 that the term \"England\" should include Wales. \n\nThe Act was based on the Hughes Parry report into the status of Welsh, published in 1965, which advocated equal validity for Welsh in speech and in written documents, both in the courts and in public administration in Wales. However, the Act did not include all of the report's recommendations. \n\nThe Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542 had made English the only language of the law courts and other aspects of public administration in Wales, even though most of the population spoke Welsh and few spoke English. The 1967 Act was the first alteration to this situation, but the Welsh Language Act 1993, was the first to put Welsh on an equal basis with English in public life.\n"}
{"id": "16865937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16865937", "title": "Wot (instrument)", "text": "Wot (instrument)\n\nThe Wot (RTGS: wot, pronounced [wòːt] also written as Vot) is a circular panpipe used in the traditional music of Laos and the Isan region of northeastern Thailand. It is often a major component in Pong-Lang ensembles.\n\nThe wot, a small compact instrument, inexpensive and beautifully shaped, became one of the musical instruments in Thailand a few decades ago, according to Songsak Pratumsin (Lecturer, College of Dramatic Arts) who invented in 1968.\n\nThe wot is typically made of bamboo or Ku (a kind of wood) trunk. In general, the sound is generated by blowing. High or low pitches of volume depend on the diameter and the length of wot or, more specifically, it depends on the volume capacity of the wind that goes through the wot. If the capacity is high, it gives a low tone of sound and vice versa.\n\nThe standard wot is composed of 13 pieces of wood and can make four notes following the Isan note scales, which are Sol, La, Do, and Re that can play main music or just a few strokes. The keys can also be adjusted by increasing the notes for the higher key patterns which are La, Do, Re, Mi, Fa, and Sol. The wot generally can create the voice keys up to 6 notes, which can be played for the bigger pattern. Moreover, the customized wots with seven notes can be played for the full musical scale, which is usually more difficult than the normal ones.\n\nThe wot characteristics of form classification are\n\n1. Tail Swing Wot\n\nThe former wot is a device for recreation which is typically not considered to be a professional musical instrument because it functions more as a toy. In the past, this type of wot includes the core, which is made of bamboo stalk that has grown in a proper time.\n\n2. Circular Wot (general)\n\nThis wot was improved by Songsak Pratumsin by using the main features of the Tail Wot. It produces only five notes, according to the characteristics of the folk pattern.\n\n3. Panel Wot\n\n4. Tail Wot (used to play for fun and joyful rhythm and easy to play)\n\nThis wot is used during the harvest season when the farmers have a popular activity called “Wot Throwing Competition”. The one who throws the wot farthest is the winner. The Tail Wot makes two types of noise which are bass and treble, but does not sort into notes nor adjusts the tone playing music. Thus, it is not considered to be a musical instrument.\n\n1. http://www.isan.clubs.chula.ac.th/dontri/index.php?transaction=vod.php\n\n2. http://www.roiet.go.th/101/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=98&Itemid=303\n"}
