{"id": "31069841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31069841", "title": "Agha Javed Pathan", "text": "Agha Javed Pathan\n\nAgha Javed Pathan (Urdu: ) is a political activist from Sindh, Pakistan, who practices as a doctor in Karachi. He was accused of shoe throwing on Arbab Ghulam Rahim (former Chief Minister of Sindh Province) in April 2008. He was accused of hitting Arbab on his first visit to Sindh Assembly after General elections of 2008 to attend the session and taking oath as a member of provincial assembly. Agha Javed was arrested from his home but was released by the court due to lack of evidence. He died on 4 November 2018 due to road accedent in Karachi.\n\nDr Agha Javed a Sindhi Pathan was born and raised at Shikarpur, Sindh. He graduated from Liaquat University of Medical and Health Sciences, Jamshoro in 1996. He was a political activist since his student life and was Information Secretary of Sindh People Students Federation during his College / University days. After graduation he moved to Karachi for postgraduation and got admission in Karachi University. Agha Javed Pathan was a very close aide of Mir Murtaza Bhutto when the brother of former Prime Minister Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto was in exile.\n\nJaved earned a Bachelor of Dental Surgery from Liaquat University of Medical and Health Sciences, then Liaquat Medical College at Jamshoro in 1996. He received a postgraduate diploma in public administration in 2002 from Karachi University. He completed a Masters in Administrative Sciences (Health Management) in 2006 from Karachi University.\nRecently, he was pursuing M. Phil in University of Sindh, Jamshoro and completed his course work.\n\n\nAgha Javed was nominated in a case of shoe throwing against former Chief Minister of Sindh province. He was accused of hitting the head of Arbab Ghulam Rahim on April 7, 2008 with his shoes inside Sindh Assembly building after assembly session. and shown all over the world. Three cases (FIR Nos 199/2008, 200/2008 and 201/2008) were registered against him under Sections 337-A, 392 of the Pakistan Penal Code, 13-D of the Arms Ordinance and Section 6/9-A of Control of Narcotic Substance Act at Preedy police station. He was arrested after police raided his home. Four cases were registered against him including manhandling with Arbab Ghulam Rahim, committing decoity, keeping illegal weapons and narcotics. Later he was released by the court due to lack of evidence.\n\nImmediately after the incident, Pakistan Peoples Party activist Kazim Hakim offered Rs. 600,000- for the shoe thrown at Arbab Ghulam Rahim; Sardar Ameen Mengal, a leader from Pakistan Peoples Party, Larkana chapter offered Rs.9,000,000 for the shoe.\n"}
{"id": "1939367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1939367", "title": "Arab Canadians", "text": "Arab Canadians\n\nArab Canadians () come from all of the countries of the Arab world. According to the 2016 Census there were 523,235 Canadians who claimed Arab ancestry. According to the 2011 Census there were 661,750 Canadians who claimed full or partial ancestry from an Arabic-speaking country. The large majority of the Canadians of Arab origin population live in either Ontario or Quebec. Not all Canadians from the Arab world are Arabs, there are also communities of Armenians, Assyrians, Copts, Kurds, Turcomans, Berbers, and those who espouse a Phoenician or Aramean heritage (see Phoenicianism and Arameanism).\n\nThe distribution of the Arab population of Canada according to the 2001 Census, 2011 Census, and 2016 Census was as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20619467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20619467", "title": "Arabs in Bulgaria", "text": "Arabs in Bulgaria\n\nArabs in Bulgaria (, ) are the people from Arab countries, particularly Lebanon, Syria, the Palestinian Territories, Iraq, and Jordan and also small groups from Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, Libya and Sudan, who emigrated from their native nations and currently reside in Bulgaria. Most Arab Bulgarians are of Lebanese or Syrian origin, because they were the first Arabs to arrive in Bulgaria. The first Arabs came to Bulgaria in the late 1960s and early 1970s as students in Bulgarian universities. In the over forty-year history of this community, 11,400 Arabs have migrated to Bulgaria. According to other data from two teams of anthropologists and sociologists, the number of Arabs in Bulgaria who are legal residents and officially have work permits was 17,000 in 2004. (the number 17,000 includes not only Arabs but also Kurds, Iranians, Afghans, Berber and others.) \n\nIn addition, Bulgaria has people from Arab countries, who have the status of refugees (refugees of the Syrian civil war, but only 10% of them are Syrian Arabs, the other 90% of them are Syrian Kurds) or illegal immigrants (Algerians of mainly Berber descent and usually mistakenly called Arabs) trying to immigrate to Western Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31840182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31840182", "title": "Canadian Australians", "text": "Canadian Australians\n\nCanadian Australians refers to Australians who identify as being of Canadian descent. It may also refer to Canadian immigrants and expatriates residing in Australia. According to statistics from 2006, there were as many as 21,000 Australians who have Canadian ancestors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12438121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12438121", "title": "Cherokee Inspired Comfort Award", "text": "Cherokee Inspired Comfort Award\n\nThe Cherokee Inspired Comfort Award is an award that recognizes registered nurses and other non-physician, clinical, health care professionals who work directly with patients in the United States. The award invites anyone to nominate a health care professional for exceptional service, sacrifice or innovation. The award is named after Cherokee Uniforms, a designer, manufacturer and distributor of uniforms, scrubs and lab coats worn by health care, dental and veterinary professionals internationally.\n\nCherokee Uniforms created the award in 2003 to increase national awareness of health care professionals who serve patients, co-workers and communities in ways that would be considered exceptional by the general public and health care industry. In its inaugural year, the award was bestowed on ten health care professionals: a nurse practitioner and nine registered nurses. In 2003, 526 persons were nominated. In 2007, 1,019 persons were nominated. Since its inception in 2003, 5,400 health care professionals and student nurses have been nominated for the award. All of the award’s recipients are described on .\n\n\nThe award is offered annually. Nominations are submitted by entering the names and occupational-specific information about the nominee into the award-nomination process via electronic or paper nomination forms which are hosted on (the award’s website). The nomination period is from March 1 through May 31, and recipients are announced on the award’s website and in the U.S. media in late September.\n\nThe award has five nomination categories: advanced practice nurses, registered nurses, licensed vocational nurses/ licensed practical nurses, students who are enrolled in schools of nursing, and other non-physician, clinical, health care professionals who work directly with patients.\n\nRecipients may be chosen in each nomination category. The number of recipients chosen in a given year depends on the quality of nominations that are submitted. In 2006, there were eleven recipients: two advanced practice nurses, four registered nurses, two licensed vocational nurses/ licensed practical nurses, two nursing students, and one non-physician health care professional. There are three levels of prize winners: grand prize winners, top national winners and national winners. Typically, there is one grand prize winner and one top national winner in each nomination category. The number of national winners in each category depends on the quality of the nominations received.\n\nRecipients of each year’s Cherokee Inspired Comfort Award appear in the following year’s calendar, distributed to schools of nursing, professional associations and health care employers, including hospitals and skilled nursing facilities. The calendars also are distributed through retailers who sell health care uniforms. Calendars include a photography portrait of each of the preceding year’s recipients, an inspirational quotation, and health care professional awareness and recognition days and weeks. Calendars are free of charge.\n\nCherokee promotes the recipients of the Cherokee Inspired Comfort Award in the national media, to media serving the health care professions, and to media serving each recipient’s geographic areas. Media coverage of the awards has appeared in Nurseweek, Nursing Spectrum, Advance For Nurses, Advance For LPNs, Advance For Nurse Practitioners, Advance For Physical Therapists and Physical Therapy Assistants, the Baltimore Sun, and Reader’s Digest. Health care associations, state and specialty nurses associations, and associations of other kinds of professional and educational associations promote the award to members in member communications vehicles and on their websites.\n\nA panel of nurse leaders, Cherokee management personnel, and former award recipients choose recipients who best meet the program’s key requirements of exceptional service, sacrifice and innovation.\n\nThe grand prize winner in each nomination category receives an all-expense-paid Caribbean cruise for two. Additional winners in each category receive all-expense-paid trips to a medical conference of each winner’s choice, an annual membership to their preferred clinical association and a donation of $500 to the nonprofit organization of their choice.\n\nEvery award winner receives a trophy, Cherokee medical uniforms and Rockers Footwear worth more than $1,000 (if purchased from a retailer), a gold Cherokee Inspired Comfort Award insignia pin, and a profile in a nationally distributed calendar. Those who nominate the grand prize winner in each category receive Cherokee medical uniforms and a donation of $500 to the nonprofit organization of their choice.\n\nAlarmed at the disturbing number of nurses leaving the profession within their first few years in practice, Cherokee Uniforms provided a grant to Emmy Award and Peabody Award-winning director David Hoffman to create a film for nurses and nursing students that would encourage, inspire and instruct. Hoffman completed two films with the same title: \"A Nurse I Am.\" One, a 32-minute educational film, features four former recipients of the Cherokee Inspired Comfort Award as role models who adhere to accepted nursing practices and who exhibit compassion and commitment toward patients. Read about Hoffman’s motivation behind making the film at . The film follows the nurses as they treat patients and provide recommendations on how to survive and succeed in the nursing profession.\n\nThe educational version of the film was created as a tool for instructors to use in classrooms in schools of nursing and includes a classroom discussion guide for instructors. This version of the film received endorsements from the Ohio Nurses Association, the Association of Pediatric Oncology Nurses, the American Assembly for Men in Nursing, Nurses House, Inc., and the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners. (The endorsements are printed on the cover insert of the DVD containing only the educational version.) More than 100 schools of nursing in the U.S. use the educational version of the film as part of their teaching curricula. These include the schools of nursing at Yale University, Michigan State University, Indiana State University, University of Texas, North Dakota State University, New Mexico State University, Seattle Pacific University, University of Alabama, University of Alaska, and University of Washington. A comprehensive list is at (film website).\nA second film, a 62-minute documentary with the same title, follows the personal and professional lives of three of the nurses featured in the educational version. The documentary reveals what motivates these nurses to pursue excellence despite difficult challenges and shows how these nurses maintain personal balance within careers filled with high pressure and disappointments. Watch a 7-minute clip of the film on YouTube .\nMore about the film at (film’s website).\n\nCherokee Uniforms established the A Nurse I Am Scholarship Program in 2006, and the first 10 winners were awarded $2,000 checks in 2007. Applicants were required to watch either version of the film A Nurse I Am and to submit an essay describing what the film meant to them.\n\nCherokee Inspired Comfort Award website (). Retrieved 2007-07-04.\nPennsylvania State University College of Health & Human Development website (http://www.hhdev.psu.edu/nurs/faculty/counts.html). Retrieved 2007-07-24\nReader’s Digest, July 2004\n\"A Nurse I Am\" website . Retrieved 2007-07-24\n\n"}
{"id": "3229845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3229845", "title": "Civic society", "text": "Civic society\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a civic society is a voluntary body or society which aims to represent the needs of a local community. Some also take the role of an amenity society.\n\nA civic society may campaign for high standards of planning of new buildings or traffic schemes, conservation of historic buildings, and may present awards for good standards. They may organise litter collections or \"best kept village\" cleanups.\n\nCivic Voice replaced the former Civic Trust and acts as an umbrella organisation for a large number of local civic and amenity societies.\n"}
{"id": "23731192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23731192", "title": "Communibiology", "text": "Communibiology\n\nCommunibiology is a term referring to a research paradigm that emphasizes the \"neurobiological foundations of human communication behavior\". Communibiologists take the nature side of the nature versus nurture debate in communication development. The communibiological paradigm was developed by Beatty and McCroskey as an alternative to the nature side supporting social learning paradigm. They believe genetics to be far more important in the development of communication behavior than learning processes and the environment. These researchers do concede, however, that genetic factors are not the sole source of communication behavior. One accepted ratio is 20% influence of cultural, situational, or environmental stimuli and 80% influence of inborn, neurobiological structures on behavior. \n\nA main idea of communibiology is that temperaments are based on genetics and not learned. Communication behavior is an expression of a person's temperament, though the behavior and the temperament do not completely correlate with one another. Identical genetics producing identical temperaments may result in non-identical communication behaviors because one's temperament can be expressed in various ways. The behaviors, though, will be very similar.\n\nHans Eysenck found that the two main aspects of personality are temperament and intelligence. He identified three personality types:\nEysenck argues that these three personalities are inherited lending it useful to the communibiological paradigm. Other research has also found that the genetic component of these three personalities is between 50% and 80%.\n\nJ.A. Gray proposed a behavioral inhibition system (BIS) and a behavioral activation system (BAS). The threshold for activation of the BIS or BAS is inherited.\n\nHorvath compared identical and fraternal twins in order to determine if communicator styles were inherited. This was the first study of heredity and communication and it found that communicator style variables are partially inherited, leading the way for the future studies regarding inheritance and communication behavior.\n\n\nThere exist many opponents to the communibiological paradigm. First are the \"nurture\" and social learning paradigm supporters that believe learning has more to do with communication behavior than genetics. Then there are others who believe the whole argument is pointless. Condit calls for a multi-causal model that would incorporate both nature and nurture. Condit also claims that the 80% genetic influence found by Beatty and McCroskey lacks solid evidence and a number in the 40-60% range is more likely, helping to support her view of incorporating both nature and nurture.\n\nCommunication apprehension afflicts millions of people worldwide. Much of the communibiological research done on communication apprehension has found that the causes of the affliction are inherited.\n\nBeatty and McCroskey first developed their communibiological paradigm in order to more effectively diagnose communication apprehension. Using Eysenck's personality theory they identified the primary components of communication apprehension to be introversion and neuroticism. They also used Gray's theory to say that activation of the behavioral inhibition system is related to anxiety. They make note that both the personalities of Eysenck's theory and the activation threshold of the BIS in Gray's theory have been found to be inherited. Differences in communication apprehension correspond to differences in BIS activation threshold, supporting the idea that communication apprehension is genetically determined.\n\nInterpersonal communication motives explain why people with communication apprehension communicate the way they do. People with low communication apprehension communicate for pleasure, affection, control, and relaxation while people with high communication apprehension communicate for inclusion and escape. Paulsel and Mottet (2004) found that interpersonal communication motives such as these are at least a partially influenced by genetically inherited traits.\n\nJung and McCroskey (2004) studied the presence of communication apprehension in those speaking their first language and those speaking their second language. Communication apprehension in the first language predicted communication apprehension in the second language. This combated the social learning perspective which would say that the learning of the second language would influence and change the communication apprehension in the second language. They concluded that communication apprehension is a cross-linguistic trait and that the trait is genetically inherited.\n\nThe fact that the causes of communication apprehension are inherited has major implications in how it can be treated as some believe that if communication apprehension is genetically inherited then it cannot be changed. Others contend, as Beatty and McCroskey did, that since traits are not exclusively genetically inherited, treatment is viable. Treatment in terms of the communibiological paradigm involves learning to control the negative aspects of one's inherited temperament.\n\nComminubiologists argue that people are born with specific temperaments based on their genetics. This does not, however, mean that they do not learn. Culture plays an important role in this learning process. While they are born with a certain temperament a person learns how to respond to specific temperamental demands based on the culture they are surrounded by. As children they learn which temperamental actions are appropriate and which are not. So while the basis of a person's communication behavior is based on genetics, a good portion of their behavior is also affected by the culture they are raised in. In fact, the communication behaviors ethnocentrism and homophobia were found to have no relationship with a person's genetic make-up or temperament. These traits are instead developed through culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "31989603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31989603", "title": "Crime in Germany", "text": "Crime in Germany\n\nCrime in Germany is combated by the German Police and other agencies.\n\nIn Germany's 2010 crime statistics, 5.93 million criminal acts were committed, down two percent from 2009. According to the Interior Ministry, it is the first time the figure has fallen below six million offenses since 1991 (the year after reunification), and is the lowest crime level since records began. The rate of crimes solved in 2010 was 56 percent, a record high, up from 2009's 55.6%.\n\nInternet related crime climbed 8.1 percent in 2010, with around 224,000 reported cases. The number of homes broken into in 2010 was also up by 6.6 percent.\n\nAccording to 2015 statistics, there were 127 000 victims of domestic violence (German: \"Häusliche Gewalt)\" of which 82% were female. This represented a rise of 5.5% over 2012 statistics. The most common crime is bodily harm: a slap or a strike enough to be prosecuted but often are not. The two next most common crimes were threats (14.4%) and grievous bodily harm (German: \"schwere Körperverletzung\") or injury with deadly outcome (German: \"Verletzung mit Todesfolge\") at 12%. A fourth of the suspects were drunk.\n\nEx partner victims were mostly targeted by stalking.\n\nIn 2011, Germany had a murder rate of 0.8 per 100,000 population.\n\nIn 2017, statistics suggested that German citizens constitute the largest group of suspects in organised crime trials. The proportion of non-German citizen suspects increased from 67.5% to 70.7% from the previous year. 14.9% of the German citizens involved held a different citizenship at birth.\n\n\"Die Welt\" reported in 2016 that Berlin and Bremen have significant problems with organised crime in the form of \"Arab Families,\" of which seven to nine are criminally conspicuous and today \"control most of organised crime.\" For example, the prostitutes in the Schöneberg neighbourhood are controlled by one family. Disputes are solved through mutually agreed mediators, who can include imams and heads of families.\n\nThe 'Ndrangheta, Camorra and Cosa Nostra all operate in Germany; the 'Ndrangheta has the strongest presence. There are some estimated 1200 members of the Ndrangheta active in Germany, mostly in the cocaine trade. Apart from the Ndrangheta, the Neapolitan Camorra has also infiltrated the construction industry in Germany. Furthermore, there are also five Sicilian Mafia groups active in the country, but they seem to have lost power.\nItalian crime groups can mostly be found in the Ruhr district and in the west of Germany.\n\nOMCGs such as Hells Angels, Bandidos, Gremium and more recently, Satudarah, Night Wolves are active throughout Germany. While not all members of motorcycle clubs are criminal, some are reputed to be well known faces in the red-light districts and in the bouncer-scene who control a large chunk of the drug trade within bars and clubs.\n\nAlbanian mafia families are active in some of the German urban centres, in particular Hamburg. They play an important role in the drug trade and the red light districts of the country.\n\n\"Ethnic Albanians\" (as the German police officially calls them), who come into Germany typically from Albania or the Republic of Macedonia or Kosovo, have created for a very short time in the last decade of the century, a very powerful criminal network, says Manfred Quedzuweit, director of the Police Department for Fighting the Organized Crime in Hamburg. \"Here, it could be heard that they are even more dangerous than Cosa Nostra. Albanian \"banks\" in Germany are a special story. They are used for the transfer of money from Germany, which amounts to a billion of D-marks a year.\n\nOne of these banks was discovered by accident by the Düsseldorf police while checking a travel agency \"Eulinda\" owned by the Albanians. \"We haven't found a single travel related catalogue or brochure at the agency. The computers were nonfunctional, the printer had never been used. We found that \"Eulinda\" was a coverup for some other business\", said high criminal counselor from Düsseldorf Rainer Bruckert. \"Eventually we found out that \"Eulinda\" had already transferred $150 million to Kosovo—for 'humanitarian purposes'\", says Bruckert. \"Money was being transferred by the couriers in special waist belts with multiple pockets. So, in a single one-way trip, it was possible to carry up to six million D-marks.\" \n\nBND reports state that Albanian Mafia activities are thoroughly spread throughout Germany. One mafia family in Hamburg, for instance, according to BND reports, has over \"300 million euros in real estate portfolios\". Further, the clan has considerable ties to police, judges and prosecutors in Hamburg.\n\nAccording to British criminal Colin Blaney in his autobiography 'Undesirables', Albanian criminals in Germany also frequently come to blows with British criminals who operate in the nation. Albanian people traffickers have been involved in confrontations with an English organized crime group known as the Wide Awake Firm, including an incident in which a member of the English group was stabbed through the hand.\n\nRussian-speaking crime groups, in particular the Tambov gang are active in cities such as Düsseldorf. Especially money laundering, prostitution and extortion seem to be their activities of choice. \"Russian\" criminal activity doesn't only concern ethnic Russians but also Russian Jews which was evident with the arrest of Mikhail Rabo, a senior member of the Jewish community in Berlin and a high-ranking member of the Tambov gang. Aside from the \"Russian\" groups, Georgian, Armenia and Chechen crime groups are active in Germany as well. Very often these gangs and the \"Russian\" groups are named together in one breath even when they have little to do with each other.\n\nAnother major form of \"Russian-speaking\" organized crime in Germany consists of so-called criminal \"Aussiedler\" families. \"Aussiedlers\" are ethnic Germans (also called Volga Germans) that were born in the former Soviet Union. While a lot of \"Aussiedlers\" adapted well and quickly mastered the German language, a lot of families held unto the traditional lifestyle they lived in Russia and surrounding states. This led to the formation of individual as well as clan-based groups of \"Aussiedlers\" involved in organized criminal activities such as drug trafficking, extortion, prostitution, as well as extreme violence. Due to the large number of \"Aussiedlers\" they are seen as the major form of \"Russian\" organized crime in Germany.\n\nThe Zemun clan is active in Germany in drug trafficking and prostitution. Members are largely ethnic Serbs, some of them former soldiers, but Montenegrins and Bosniaks from the Serbian region of Sandzak are part of the ex-Yugoslavian gangs as well.\n\n\"Turkish\" crime groups which consist of ethnic Turks, Laz and Kurds from Turkey are active throughout Germany in extortion, weapon trafficking and drug trafficking. Often the gangs can be linked to political groups from their home country, such as the Grey Wolves for right-wing Turks and Dev Sol for left-wing Turks and Kurds.\n\nIn 2014, the annual report into organized crime, presented in Berlin by interior minister Thomas de Maizière, showed that there were 57 Turkish and 4 Kurdish gangs in Germany. According to the report, alongside their more traditional fields of drug smuggling, gangs are also increasingly turning their attention to burglary, car theft and fraud. Ten percent of Germany's gang members were reported to be Turkish and according to statistics, the activity of Turkish gangs in Germany had decreased.\n\nIn 2016, \"Die Welt\" and \"Bild\" reported that new Turkish motorbike gang, the Osmanien Germania is growing rapidly. The Hannoversche Allgemeine newspaper claimed that the Osmanien Germania is advancing more and more into red-light districts, which increases the likelihood of a bloody territorial battle with established gangs like the Hells Angels Motorcycle Club and the Mongols Motorcycle Club.\n\nMiddle Eastern crime clans have become a major player in the underworld of Germany since the mass emigration of large Middle Eastern families, also called \"Großfamilie\". Especially in cities such as Berlin, Hamburg and Bremen Middle Eastern clans are highly active in the trafficking of heroin as well as being involved in the bouncer-scene. Middle Eastern crime families mostly have origins in Lebanon, Afghanistan (mainly in Hamburg) and Morocco (mostly in Frankfurt).\n\nMiddle Eastern crime clans come from different backgrounds, but the most numerous of them are the Lebanese Mhallami clans such as the Al-Zein Clan and the Miri clan among others.\n\nLebanese clans are active in drug trafficking, including Afghan heroin, cocaine, hashish and methamphetamine, weapon trafficking, extortion, prostitution and loan sharking. The main center of Lebanese organized crime in Germany is Berlin, with other clans spread in Bremen and Essen.\n\nAfghan clans (often of Pashtun background) are active in Hamburg, a city with a large Afghan population. Like the Turkish and Turkish-Kurdish as well as Albanian gangs in the city, Afghan organized crime is active in hashish and heroin trafficking, extortion and prostitution.\n\nMoroccan organized crime groups, often of Riffian descent, on the other hand have been reported in Frankfurt. Next to Serbian mafia and Balkan gangs, Moroccan organized crime has become one of the main factors in the Frankfurt underworld active in the heroin trade as well as other criminal activities.\n\nVietnamese groups active in human trafficking and cigarette smuggling have been reported in Germany. Chinese Triads on the other hand have been reported but don't seem to have substantial power in Germany.\n\nTransparency International’s Global corruption barometer 2013 reveals that political parties and businesses are the most corrupt institutions in Germany. The same report also indicates that petty corruption is not as uncommon as other European countries. The survey shows that 11% of the respondents claim to have been asked to pay a bribe at one point in their life and only few of those said that they had refused to pay the bribe.\n\nIn 2018, the \"Wall Street Journal\" analysed German crime statistics for crime suspects and found that the foreigners, overall 12.8% of the population, make up a disproportionate share of crime suspects (34.7%), see horizontal bar chart.\n\nIn 2016 31.4 percent of all convicted offenders were foreigners, about 3 times higher than the percentage of foreigners living in Germany.\n\nCrimes such as drug trafficking, weapon trafficking, extortion, prostitution, money laundering and contract killing are present in most less well-maintained areas of urban centres such as Berlin, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Duisburg, Cologne or Düsseldorf.\n\n"}
{"id": "42347399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42347399", "title": "Crime in Tuvalu", "text": "Crime in Tuvalu\n\nCrime in Tuvalu is not a significant social problem due to an effective criminal justice system and also due to the influence of the social institutions of Tuvalu, which include the \"Falekaupule\" (the traditional assembly of elders) and the central role of religious institutions in the Tuvaluan community. The \"Falekaupule\" continues to play an important role in Tuvaluan society, as the islands of Tuvalu have small communities living in villages. The largest community is on Funafuti atoll, the capital of Tuvalu, with 4,492 residents in the 2002 census.\n\nThe social problems that exist in large societies, such as violent crime, illegal substance abuse and prostitution, do not exist in Tuvalu. Murders are rare, with only 2 since independence in 1978.\n\nTuvalu has a police service and an island based Magistrates Court system. Serious offences, such as rape and murder, are dealt with in the High Court of Tuvalu.\n\nEach island has its own high-chief, or ulu-aliki, and several sub-chiefs (alikis). The community council is the \"Falekaupule\" (the traditional assembly of elders) or te sina o fenua (literally: \"grey-hairs of the land\"). As defined in the Falekaupule Act (1997), \"Falekaupule\" means \"traditional assembly in each island...composed in accordance with the Aganu of each island\". \"Aganu\" means traditional customs and culture.\n\nSection 41 and Schedule 3 of the Falekaupule Act (1997) provides that “[i]t shall be the duty of every Falekaupule and of every Kaupule to use its resources to assist the police in the detection and prevention of crime within the area of its authority.”\n\nThe ulu-aliki and aliki exercise informal authority on each island. Ulu-aliki are always chosen based on ancestry. Their powers are now shared with the pule o kaupule (elected village presidents; one on each island).\n\nThe Penal Code (1965) was first enacted during the time that Tuvalu was part of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony. The Code is drafted to provide the complete criminal code of Tuvalu, although the Code is supplemented by offences created in other legislation including the Dangerous Drugs Act (1948), Alcoholic Drink Act (1985), Arms and Ammunition Act (1964) and the Counter Terrorism and Transnational Organised Crime Act (2009). The Criminal Procedure Code (1963) provides for powers of arrest and search and rule for the administration of the criminal proceedings in the courts.\n\nWhile human trafficking is not a problem in Tuvalu, the Counter Terrorism and Transnational Organised Crime Act 2009 (2009) provides protection for trafficking victims, particularly children. It expressly forbids the trafficking of children into and within Tuvalu or to another country for any purpose. It also provides trafficking victims with legal protections from criminal prosecution. The Penal Code (1965) provides for an offence of cruelty to children in section 226.\n\nThe central role of religious institutions in the Tuvaluan community is acknowledged in the Constitution of Tuvalu, in which the preamble to refers to Tuvaluan society being based on Christian principles:-\n\nPart XV of the Penal Code (1965) creates offences relating to religion: insult to religion of any class (s. 123); disturbing religious assemblies (s. 124); trespassing on burial places (s. 125); hindering burial of dead body, etc. (s. 126); and writing or uttering words with intent to wound religious feelings (s. 127). As well, sorcery is an offence under section 183.\n\nThe legislation that is part of the Law of Tuvalu is published online by the Office of the Attorney General of Tuvalu; also by the Pacific Islands Legal Information Institute, with the law set out in the 2008 Revised Edition; with a list of current legislation (up to 2012).\n\nTuvalu’s national police force, the \"Tuvalu Police Service\", is headquartered in Funafuti. It includes a maritime surveillance unit, customs, prisons and immigration. Police officers wear British style uniforms. The police have a Pacific-class patrol boat, the HMTSS \"Te Mataili\", provided by Australia in October 1994 under the Pacific Patrol Boat Program for use in maritime surveillance and fishery patrol and for search-and-rescue missions. \n\nThere are no lawyers in private practice in Tuvalu. The government funds the service of the \"People's Lawyer\", whose advice services are available free of charge for arrested persons. The People's Lawyer not only acts as the public defender but also represents people in the courts for cases that involve \"land dispute resolution, civil disputes, family and some business formation.\" The People's Lawyer is based on the main island of Funafuti; the outer islands may have limited access to legal services as the people's lawyer infrequently travels to the outer islands.\n\nAccording to a 2008 source, \"there have been instances [in which] the position of the People’s Lawyer has remained unfulfilled for significant periods of time causing excessive delay in hearing clients’ cases.\" For the greater part of the position's history, the Australian Volunteers International Scheme recruited expatriate lawyers from either Australia or the United Kingdom to serve as The People's Lawyer. Since 2010, the position has been filled by Tuvaluans: Isala T. Isala (male lawyer; 2010-2015) and Filiga Taukiei Niko (female lawyer; 2015 - ). \n\nThe jurisdiction of the Magistrates Court is described in Part II of the Criminal Procedure Code (1963); any offence may be tried by the Senior Magistrate's Court where the penalty does not exceed a term of imprisonment for a term of 14 years (s. 4). However the sentences the Senior Magistrate's Court may impose are limited to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years and a fine not exceeding $1,000 (s. 7 of Criminal Procedure Code).\n\nThe superior court is the High Court of Tuvalu as it has unlimited jurisdiction to try criminal offences and to impose the penalties set out in the Part VI of the Penal Code and in other legislation (s. 6 of Criminal Procedure Code). The High Court also hears appeals from the Magistrates Court.\n\nThe criminal justice system is administered under the provisions of:\n\nThe jail is on Fongafale islet on Funafuti. Tuvalu’s jail is administered under the Prisons Act (1985) and the Prisons Regulations (1952).\n\nThe United States Department of State provide periodic reports as to aspects of human rights practice in Tuvalu including information on the prison system:\n\nPart XVI of the Penal Code (1965), provides for offences against morality, which include: rape (s. 128); abduction of girl under 18 years of age with intent to have sexual intercourse (s. 132); indecent assaults on females (s. 133); defilement of girl under 13 years of age (s. 134); and defilement of a girl between 13 and 15 years of age, or of idiot or imbecile (s.125). The punishment of rape is a minimum sentence of five years' imprisonment, however spousal rape is not included in the legal definition of the offence of rape.\n\nDomestic violence is considered in Tuvalu’s 2009 Report on compliance with the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. The Report said that “Committee’s experts expressed concern over the sanctioning of local custom in the [Tuvalu] Constitution and legal system, noting, for example, that husbands were permitted to ‘discipline’ their wives [as well as children]”. As many Tuvaluan families have migrated to New Zealand these practices are in direct conflict with New Zealand’s laws and social environment.\n\nThe United States Department of State provide periodic reports as to aspects of human rights practice in Tuvalu including information on rape and domestic violence:\n\nThe Penal Code (1965) does not specifically address domestic violence, which is prosecuted under the common assault provisions of the Code. The maximum penalty for common assault is six months’ imprisonment, and for assault with actual bodily harm, the penalty is up to five years’ imprisonment. The police service report that as of September 2012, there were 93 domestic violence cases on record. The police also report that it has a dedicated Domestic Violence Unit and that it operates a “no-drop” policy in relation to the conduct of prosecutions of violence against women.\n\nIn July 2013 the Pacific Regional Rights Resource Team of the Secretariat of the Pacific Community published drafting options for legislative reform to assist Tuvalu to make changes to the laws and policies relating to violence against women in order to ensure the full protection of women from all forms of violence. The Tuvalu National Council of Women, operates a Women’s Crisis Center, in Funafuti, which provided counselling services, but there were no shelters or hotlines for abused women.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State’s Report on Human Rights Practices for 2014 stated that the Tuvaluan police have a Domestic Violence Unit and a “no-drop” (evidence-based) prosecution policy in cases of violence against women and operated a 24-hour emergency line for victims of domestic violence. As of August 2014 the police reported 100 domestic violence cases.\n\nThe Tuvalu Central Statistics Division has published crime and offences statistics for the period 1996-2003. The population of Tuvalu was 9,561 at the 2002 census. The statistics are limited to crimes \"reported\", so that they do not identify the number of subsequent prosecutions or convictions; nor do the statistics, in relation to crimes against \"persons\", differentiate between common assaults and the more serious offences against a person. The crime and offences statistics as of 2003 are:\n"}
{"id": "8494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8494", "title": "DDT", "text": "DDT\n\nDichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, commonly known as DDT, is a colorless, tasteless, and almost odorless crystalline chemical compound, an organochlorine, originally developed as an insecticide, and ultimately becoming infamous for its environmental impacts. It was first synthesized in 1874. DDT's insecticidal action was discovered by the Swiss chemist Paul Hermann Müller in 1939. DDT was used in the second half of World War II to control malaria and typhus among civilians and troops. Müller was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine \"for his discovery of the high efficiency of DDT as a contact poison against several arthropods\" in 1948.\n\nBy October 1945, DDT was available for public sale in the United States. Although it was promoted by government and industry for use as an agricultural and household pesticide, there were also concerns about its use from the beginning. Opposition to DDT was focused by the 1962 publication of Rachel Carson's book \"Silent Spring\". It cataloged environmental impacts that coincided with widespread use of DDT in agriculture in the United States, and it questioned the logic of broadcasting potentially dangerous chemicals into the environment with little prior investigation of their environmental and health effects. The book claimed that DDT and other pesticides had been shown to cause cancer and that their agricultural use was a threat to wildlife, particularly birds. Its publication was a seminal event for the environmental movement and resulted in a large public outcry that eventually led, in 1972, to a ban on DDT's agricultural use in the United States. A worldwide ban on agricultural use was formalized under the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, but its limited and still-controversial use in disease vector control continues, because of its effectiveness in reducing malarial infections, balanced by environmental and other health concerns.\n\nAlong with the passage of the Endangered Species Act, the United States ban on DDT is a major factor in the comeback of the bald eagle (the national bird of the United States) and the peregrine falcon from near-extinction in the contiguous United States.\n\nDDT is similar in structure to the insecticide methoxychlor and the acaricide dicofol. It is highly hydrophobic and nearly insoluble in water but has good solubility in most organic solvents, fats and oils. DDT does not occur naturally and is synthesised by a Friedel–Crafts hydroxyalkylation reaction between chloral () and chlorobenzene (), in the presence of an acidic catalyst. DDT has been marketed under trade names including Anofex, Cezarex, Chlorophenothane, Clofenotane, Dicophane, Dinocide, Gesarol, Guesapon, Guesarol, Gyron, Ixodex, Neocid, Neocidol and Zerdane.\n\nCommercial DDT is a mixture of several closely–related compounds. The major component (77%) is the \"p\",\"p' \" isomer (pictured above). The \"o\",\"p' \" isomer (pictured to the right) is also present in significant amounts (15%). Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) and dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (DDD) make up the balance. DDE and DDD are the major metabolites and environmental breakdown products. DDT, DDE and DDD are sometimes referred to collectively as DDX.\n\nDDT has been formulated in multiple forms, including solutions in xylene or petroleum distillates, emulsifiable concentrates, water-wettable powders, granules, aerosols, smoke candles and charges for vaporizers and lotions.\n\nFrom 1950 to 1980, DDT was extensively used in agriculture – more than 40,000 tonnes each year worldwide – and it has been estimated that a total of 1.8 million tonnes have been produced globally since the 1940s. In the United States, it was manufactured by some 15 companies, including Monsanto, Ciba, Montrose Chemical Company, Pennwalt, and Velsicol Chemical Corporation. Production peaked in 1963 at 82,000 tonnes per year. More than 600,000 tonnes (1.35 billion pounds) were applied in the US before the 1972 ban. Usage peaked in 1959 at about 36,000 tonnes.\n\nIn 2009, 3,314 tonnes were produced for malaria control and visceral leishmaniasis. India is the only country still manufacturing DDT, and is the largest consumer.<ref name=\"DDTBP.1/2\"></ref> China ceased production in 2007.\n\nIn insects, DDT opens sodium ion channels in neurons, causing them to fire spontaneously, which leads to spasms and eventual death. Insects with certain mutations in their sodium channel gene are resistant to DDT and similar insecticides. DDT resistance is also conferred by up-regulation of genes expressing cytochrome P450 in some insect species, as greater quantities of some enzymes of this group accelerate the toxin's metabolism into inactive metabolites. (The same enzyme family is up-regulated in mammals too, e.g., in response to ethanol consumption.) Genomic studies in the model genetic organism \"Drosophila melanogaster\" revealed that high level DDT resistance is polygenic, involving multiple resistance mechanisms.\n\nDDT was first synthesized in 1874 by Othmar Zeidler under the supervision of Adolf von Baeyer. It was further described in 1929 in a dissertation by W. Bausch and in two subsequent publications in 1930. The insecticide properties of \"multiple chlorinated aliphatic or fat-aromatic alcohols with at least one trichloromethane group\" were described in a patent in 1934 by Wolfgang von Leuthold. DDT's insecticidal properties were not, however, discovered until 1939 by the Swiss scientist Paul Hermann Müller, who was awarded the 1948 Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine for his efforts.\n\nDDT is the best-known of several chlorine-containing pesticides used in the 1940s and 1950s. With pyrethrum in short supply, DDT was used extensively during World War II by the Allies to control the insect vectors of typhus – nearly eliminating the disease in many parts of Europe. In the South Pacific, it was sprayed aerially for malaria and dengue fever control with spectacular effects. While DDT's chemical and insecticidal properties were important factors in these victories, advances in application equipment coupled with competent organization and sufficient manpower were also crucial to the success of these programs.\n\nIn 1945, DDT was made available to farmers as an agricultural insecticide and played a role in the final (for a time) elimination of malaria in Europe and North America.\n\nIn 1955, the World Health Organization commenced a program to eradicate malaria in countries with low to moderate transmission rates worldwide, relying largely on DDT for mosquito control and rapid diagnosis and treatment to reduce transmission. The program eliminated the disease in \"North America, Europe, the former Soviet Union,\" and in \"Taiwan, much of the Caribbean, the Balkans, parts of northern Africa, the northern region of Australia, and a large swath of the South Pacific\" and dramatically reduced mortality in Sri Lanka and India.\n\nHowever, failure to sustain the program, increasing mosquito tolerance to DDT, and increasing parasite tolerance led to a resurgence. In many areas early successes partially or completely reversed, and in some cases rates of transmission increased. The program succeeded in eliminating malaria only in areas with \"high socio-economic status, well-organized healthcare systems, and relatively less intensive or seasonal malaria transmission\".\n\nDDT was less effective in tropical regions due to the continuous life cycle of mosquitoes and poor infrastructure. It was not applied at all in sub-Saharan Africa due to these perceived difficulties. Mortality rates in that area never declined to the same dramatic extent, and now constitute the bulk of malarial deaths worldwide, especially following the disease's resurgence as a result of resistance to drug treatments and the spread of the deadly malarial variant caused by \"Plasmodium falciparum\". Eradication was abandoned in 1969 and attention instead focused on controlling and treating the disease. Spraying programs (especially using DDT) were curtailed due to concerns over safety and environmental effects, as well as problems in administrative, managerial and financial implementation. Efforts shifted from spraying to the use of bednets impregnated with insecticides and other interventions.\n\nBy October 1945, DDT was available for public sale in the United States, used both as an agricultural pesticide and as a household insecticide. Although its use was promoted by government and the agricultural industry, US scientists such as FDA pharmacologist Herbert O. Calvery expressed concern over possible hazards associated with DDT as early as 1944. In 1947, Dr. Bradbury Robinson, a physician and nutritionist practicing in St. Louis, Michigan, warned of the dangers of using the pesticide DDT in agriculture. DDT had been researched and manufactured in St. Louis by the Michigan Chemical Corporation, later purchased by Velsicol Chemical Corporation, and had become an important part of the local economy. Citing research performed by Michigan State University in 1946, Robinson, a past president of the local Conservation Club, opined that: ... perhaps the greatest danger from D.D.T. is that its extensive use in farm areas is most likely to upset the natural balances, not only killing beneficial insects in great number but by bringing about the death of fish, birds, and other forms of wild life either by their feeding on insects killed by D.D.T. or directly by ingesting the poison.\n\nAs its production and use increased, public response was mixed. At the same time that DDT was hailed as part of the \"world of tomorrow,\" concerns were expressed about its potential to kill harmless and beneficial insects (particularly pollinators), birds, fish, and eventually humans. The issue of toxicity was complicated, partly because DDT's effects varied from species to species, and partly because consecutive exposures could accumulate, causing damage comparable to large doses. A number of states attempted to regulate DDT. In the 1950s the federal government began tightening regulations governing its use. These events received little attention. Women like Dorothy Colson and Mamie Ella Plyler of Claxton, Georgia gathered evidence about DDT's effects and wrote to the Georgia Department of Public Health, the National Health Council in New York City, and other organizations.\n\nIn 1957 \"The New York Times\" reported an unsuccessful struggle to restrict DDT use in Nassau County, New York, and the issue came to the attention of the popular naturalist-author Rachel Carson. William Shawn, editor of \"The New Yorker\", urged her to write a piece on the subject, which developed into her 1962 book \"Silent Spring\". The book argued that pesticides, including DDT, were poisoning both wildlife and the environment and were endangering human health. \"Silent Spring\" was a best seller, and public reaction to it launched the modern environmental movement in the United States. The year after it appeared, President John F. Kennedy ordered his Science Advisory Committee to investigate Carson's claims. The committee's report \"add[ed] up to a fairly thorough-going vindication of Rachel Carson’s Silent Spring thesis,\" in the words of the journal \"Science\", and recommended a phaseout of \"persistent toxic pesticides\".\n\nDDT became a prime target of the growing anti-chemical and anti-pesticide movements, and in 1967 a group of scientists and lawyers founded the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) with the specific goal of enacting a ban on DDT. Victor Yannacone, Charles Wurster, Art Cooley and others in the group had all witnessed bird kills or declines in bird populations and suspected that DDT was the cause. In their campaign against the chemical, EDF petitioned the government for a ban and filed lawsuits. Around this time, toxicologist David Peakall was measuring DDE levels in the eggs of peregrine falcons and California condors and finding that increased levels corresponded with thinner shells.\n\nIn response to an EDF suit, the U.S. District Court of Appeals in 1971 ordered the EPA to begin the de-registration procedure for DDT. After an initial six-month review process, William Ruckelshaus, the Agency's first Administrator rejected an immediate suspension of DDT's registration, citing studies from the EPA's internal staff stating that DDT was not an imminent danger. However, these findings were criticized, as they were performed mostly by economic entomologists inherited from the United States Department of Agriculture, who many environmentalists felt were biased towards agribusiness and understated concerns about human health and wildlife. The decision thus created controversy.\n\nThe EPA held seven months of hearings in 1971–1972, with scientists giving evidence for and against DDT. In the summer of 1972, Ruckelshaus announced the cancellation of most uses of DDT – exempting public health uses under some conditions. Immediately after the announcement, both EDF and the DDT manufacturers filed suit against EPA. Industry sought to overturn the ban, while EDF wanted a comprehensive ban. The cases were consolidated, and in 1973 the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the EPA had acted properly in banning DDT.\n\nSome uses of DDT continued under the public health exemption. For example, in June 1979, the California Department of Health Services was permitted to use DDT to suppress flea vectors of bubonic plague. DDT continued to be produced in the United States for foreign markets until 1985, when over 300 tons were exported.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, agricultural use was banned in most developed countries, beginning with Hungary in 1968 followed by Norway and Sweden in 1970, West Germany and the United States in 1972, but not in the United Kingdom until 1984. By 1991 total bans, including for disease control, were in place in at least 26 countries; for example Cuba in 1970, the US in the 1980s, Singapore in 1984, Chile in 1985 and the Republic of Korea in 1986.\n\nThe Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, which took effect in 2004, put a global ban on several persistent organic pollutants, and restricted DDT use to vector control. The Convention was ratified by more than 170 countries. Recognizing that total elimination in many malaria-prone countries is currently unfeasible absent affordable/effective alternatives, the convention exempts public health use within World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines from the ban. Resolution 60.18 of the World Health Assembly commits WHO to the Stockholm Convention's aim of reducing and ultimately eliminating DDT. Malaria Foundation International states, \"The outcome of the treaty is arguably better than the status quo going into the negotiations. For the first time, there is now an insecticide which is restricted to vector control only, meaning that the selection of resistant mosquitoes will be slower than before.\"\n\nDespite the worldwide ban, agricultural use continued in India, North Korea, and possibly elsewhere.<ref name=\"DDTBP.1/2\"></ref> As of 2013 an estimated 3,000 to 4,000 tons of DDT were produced for disease vector control, including 2786 tons in India. DDT is applied to the inside walls of homes to kill or repel mosquitoes. This intervention, called indoor residual spraying (IRS), greatly reduces environmental damage. It also reduces the incidence of DDT resistance. For comparison, treating of cotton during a typical U.S. growing season requires the same amount of chemical as roughly 1,700 homes.\n\nDDT is a persistent organic pollutant that is readily adsorbed to soils and sediments, which can act both as sinks and as long-term sources of exposure affecting organisms. Depending on conditions, its soil half-life can range from 22 days to 30 years. Routes of loss and degradation include runoff, volatilization, photolysis and aerobic and anaerobic biodegradation. Due to hydrophobic properties, in aquatic ecosystems DDT and its metabolites are absorbed by aquatic organisms and adsorbed on suspended particles, leaving little DDT dissolved in the water (however, its half-life in aquatic environments is listed by the National Pesticide Information Center as 150 years). Its breakdown products and metabolites, DDE and DDD, are also persistent and have similar chemical and physical properties. DDT and its breakdown products are transported from warmer areas to the Arctic by the phenomenon of global distillation, where they then accumulate in the region's food web.\n\nMedical researchers in 1974 found a measurable and significant difference in the presence of DDT in human milk between mothers who lived in New Brunswick and mothers who lived in Nova Scotia, \"possibly because of the wider use of insecticide sprays in the past.\"\n\nBecause of its lipophilic properties, DDT can bioaccumulate, especially in predatory birds. DDT is toxic to a wide range of living organisms, including marine animals such as crayfish, daphnids, sea shrimp and many species of fish. DDT, DDE and DDD magnify through the food chain, with apex predators such as raptor birds concentrating more chemicals than other animals in the same environment. They are stored mainly in body fat. DDT and DDE are resistant to metabolism; in humans, their half-lives are 6 and up to 10 years, respectively. In the United States, these chemicals were detected in almost all human blood samples tested by the Centers for Disease Control in 2005, though their levels have sharply declined since most uses were banned. Estimated dietary intake has declined, although FDA food tests commonly detect it.\n\nThe chemical and its breakdown products DDE and DDD caused eggshell thinning and population declines in multiple North American and European bird of prey species. DDE-related eggshell thinning is considered a major reason for the decline of the bald eagle, brown pelican, peregrine falcon and osprey. However, birds vary in their sensitivity to these chemicals, with birds of prey, waterfowl and song birds being more susceptible than chickens and related species. Even in 2010, California condors that feed on sea lions at Big Sur that in turn feed in the Palos Verdes Shelf area of the Montrose Chemical Superfund site exhibited continued thin-shell problems, though DDT's role in the decline of the California condor is disputed.\n\nThe biological thinning mechanism is not entirely understood, but DDE appears to be more potent than DDT, and strong evidence indicates that p,p'-DDE inhibits calcium ATPase in the membrane of the shell gland and reduces the transport of calcium carbonate from blood into the eggshell gland. This results in a dose-dependent thickness reduction. Other evidence indicates that o,p'-DDT disrupts female reproductive tract development, later impairing eggshell quality. Multiple mechanisms may be at work, or different mechanisms may operate in different species.\n\nDDT is an endocrine disruptor. It is considered likely to be a human carcinogen although the majority of studies suggest it is not directly genotoxic. DDE acts as a weak androgen receptor antagonist, but not as an estrogen. p,p'-DDT, DDT's main component, has little or no androgenic or estrogenic activity. The minor component o,p'-DDT has weak estrogenic activity.\n\nDDT is classified as \"moderately toxic\" by the US National Toxicology Program (NTP) and \"moderately hazardous\" by WHO, based on the rat oral of 113 mg/kg. Indirect exposure is considered relatively non-toxic for humans.\n\nPrimarily through the tendency for DDT to buildup in areas of the body with high lipid content, chronic exposure can affect reproductive capabilities and the embryo or fetus.\n\nIn 2015, the International Agency for Research on Cancer classifies DDT as Group 2A \"probably carcinogenic to humans\". Previous assessments by the U.S. National Toxicology Program classified it as \"reasonably anticipated to be a carcinogen\" and by the EPA classified DDT, DDE and DDD as class B2 \"probable\" carcinogens; these evaluations were based mainly on animal studies. \n\nA 2005 Lancet review stated that occupational DDT exposure was associated with increased pancreatic cancer risk in 2 case control studies, but another study showed no DDE dose-effect association. Results regarding a possible association with liver cancer and biliary tract cancer are conflicting: workers who did not have direct occupational DDT contact showed increased risk. White men had an increased risk, but not white women or black men. Results about an association with multiple myeloma, prostate and testicular cancer, endometrial cancer and colorectal cancer have been inconclusive or generally do not support an association. A 2017 review of liver cancer studies concluded that \"organochlorine pesticides, including DDT, may increase hepatocellular carcinoma risk.\"\n\nA 2009 review, whose co-authors included persons engaged in DDT-related litigation, reached broadly similar conclusions, with an equivocal association with testicular cancer. Case–control studies did not support an association with leukemia or lymphoma.\n\nThe question of whether DDT or DDE are risk factors in breast cancer has not been conclusively answered. Several meta analyses of observational studies have concluded that there is no overall relationship between DDT exposure and breast cancer risk. The United States Institute of Medicine reviewed data on the association of breast cancer with DDT exposure in 2012 and concluded that a causative relationship could neither be proven nor disproven.\n\nA 2007 case control study using archived blood samples found that breast cancer risk was increased 5-fold among women who were born prior to 1931 and who had high serum DDT levels in 1963. Reasoning that DDT use became widespread in 1945 and peaked around 1950, they concluded that the ages of 14–20 were a critical period in which DDT exposure leads to increased risk. This study, which suggests a connection between DDT exposure and breast cancer that would not be picked up by most studies, has received variable commentary in third party reviews. One review suggested that \"previous studies that measured exposure in older women may have missed the critical period.\" The National Toxicology Program notes that while the majority of studies have not found a relationship between DDT exposure and breast cancer that positive associations have been seen in a \"few studies among women with higher levels of exposure and among certain subgroups of women\"\n\nA 2015 case control study identified a link (odds ratio 3.4) between \"in-utero\" exposure (as estimated from archived maternal blood samples) and breast cancer diagnosis in daughters. The findings \"support classification of DDT as an endocrine disruptor, a predictor of breast cancer, and a marker of high risk\".\n\nMalaria remains the primary public health challenge in many countries. In 2015, there were 214 million cases of malaria worldwide resulting in an estimated 438,000 deaths, 90% of which occurred in Africa. DDT is one of many tools to fight the disease. Its use in this context has been called everything from a \"miracle weapon [that is] like Kryptonite to the mosquitoes,\" to \"toxic colonialism\".\n\nBefore DDT, eliminating mosquito breeding grounds by drainage or poisoning with Paris green or pyrethrum was sometimes successful. In parts of the world with rising living standards, the elimination of malaria was often a collateral benefit of the introduction of window screens and improved sanitation. A variety of usually simultaneous interventions represents best practice. These include antimalarial drugs to prevent or treat infection; improvements in public health infrastructure to diagnose, sequester and treat infected individuals; bednets and other methods intended to keep mosquitoes from biting humans; and vector control strategies such as larvaciding with insecticides, ecological controls such as draining mosquito breeding grounds or introducing fish to eat larvae and indoor residual spraying (IRS) with insecticides, possibly including DDT. IRS involves the treatment of interior walls and ceilings with insecticides. It is particularly effective against mosquitoes, since many species rest on an indoor wall before or after feeding. DDT is one of 12 WHO–approved IRS insecticides.\n\nWHO's anti-malaria campaign of the 1950s and 1960s relied heavily on DDT and the results were promising, though temporary in developing countries. Experts tie malarial resurgence to multiple factors, including poor leadership, management and funding of malaria control programs; poverty; civil unrest; and increased irrigation. The evolution of resistance to first-generation drugs (e.g. chloroquine) and to insecticides exacerbated the situation. Resistance was largely fueled by unrestricted agricultural use. Resistance and the harm both to humans and the environment led many governments to curtail DDT use in vector control and agriculture. In 2006 WHO reversed a longstanding policy against DDT by recommending that it be used as an indoor pesticide in regions where malaria is a major problem.\n\nOnce the mainstay of anti-malaria campaigns, as of 2008 only 12 countries used DDT, including India and some southern African states, though the number was expected to rise.\n\nWhen it was introduced in World War II, DDT was effective in reducing malaria morbidity and mortality. WHO's anti-malaria campaign, which consisted mostly of spraying DDT and rapid treatment and diagnosis to break the transmission cycle, was initially successful as well. For example, in Sri Lanka, the program reduced cases from about one million per year before spraying to just 18 in 1963 and 29 in 1964. Thereafter the program was halted to save money and malaria rebounded to 600,000 cases in 1968 and the first quarter of 1969. The country resumed DDT vector control but the mosquitoes had evolved resistance in the interim, presumably because of continued agricultural use. The program switched to malathion, but despite initial successes, malaria continued its resurgence into the 1980s.\n\nDDT remains on WHO's list of insecticides recommended for IRS. After the appointment of Arata Kochi as head of its anti-malaria division, WHO's policy shifted from recommending IRS only in areas of seasonal or episodic transmission of malaria, to advocating it in areas of continuous, intense transmission. WHO reaffirmed its commitment to phasing out DDT, aiming \"to achieve a 30% cut in the application of DDT world-wide by 2014 and its total phase-out by the early 2020s if not sooner\" while simultaneously combating malaria. WHO plans to implement alternatives to DDT to achieve this goal.\n\nSouth Africa continues to use DDT under WHO guidelines. In 1996, the country switched to alternative insecticides and malaria incidence increased dramatically. Returning to DDT and introducing new drugs brought malaria back under control. Malaria cases increased in South America after countries in that continent stopped using DDT. Research data showed a strong negative relationship between DDT residual house sprayings and malaria. In a research from 1993 to 1995, Ecuador increased its use of DDT and achieved a 61% reduction in malaria rates, while each of the other countries that gradually decreased its DDT use had large increases.\n\nIn some areas resistance reduced DDT's effectiveness. WHO guidelines require that absence of resistance must be confirmed before using the chemical. Resistance is largely due to agricultural use, in much greater quantities than required for disease prevention.\n\nResistance was noted early in spray campaigns. Paul Russell, former head of the Allied Anti-Malaria campaign, observed in 1956 that \"resistance has appeared after six or seven years.\" Resistance has been detected in Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Turkey and Central America and it has largely been replaced by organophosphate or carbamate insecticides, \"e.g.\" malathion or bendiocarb.\n\nIn many parts of India, DDT is ineffective. Agricultural uses were banned in 1989 and its anti-malarial use has been declining. Urban use ended. One study concluded that \"DDT is still a viable insecticide in indoor residual spraying owing to its effectivity in well supervised spray operation and high excito-repellency factor.\"\n\nStudies of malaria-vector mosquitoes in KwaZulu-Natal Province, South Africa found susceptibility to 4% DDT (WHO's susceptibility standard), in 63% of the samples, compared to the average of 87% in the same species caught in the open. The authors concluded that \"Finding DDT resistance in the vector \"An. arabiensis\", close to the area where we previously reported pyrethroid-resistance in the vector \"An. funestus\" Giles, indicates an urgent need to develop a strategy of insecticide resistance management for the malaria control programmes of southern Africa.\"\n\nDDT can still be effective against resistant mosquitoes and the avoidance of DDT-sprayed walls by mosquitoes is an additional benefit of the chemical. For example, a 2007 study reported that resistant mosquitoes avoided treated huts. The researchers argued that DDT was the best pesticide for use in IRS (even though it did not afford the most protection from mosquitoes out of the three test chemicals) because the others pesticides worked primarily by killing or irritating mosquitoes – encouraging the development of resistance. Others argue that the avoidance behavior slows eradication. Unlike other insecticides such as pyrethroids, DDT requires long exposure to accumulate a lethal dose; however its irritant property shortens contact periods. \"For these reasons, when comparisons have been made, better malaria control has generally been achieved with pyrethroids than with DDT.\" In India outdoor sleeping and night duties are common, implying that \"the excito-repellent effect of DDT, often reported useful in other countries, actually promotes outdoor transmission.\"\n\nIRS is effective if at least 80% of homes and barns in a residential area are sprayed. Lower coverage rates can jeopardize program effectiveness. Many residents resist DDT spraying, objecting to the lingering smell, stains on walls, and the potential exacerbation of problems with other insect pests. Pyrethroid insecticides (e.g. deltamethrin and lambda-cyhalothrin) can overcome some of these issues, increasing participation.\n\nA 1994 study found that South Africans living in sprayed homes have levels that are several orders of magnitude greater than others. Breast milk from South African mothers contains high levels of DDT and DDE. It is unclear to what extent these levels arise from home spraying vs food residues. Evidence indicates that these levels are associated with infant neurological abnormalities.\n\nMost studies of DDT's human health effects have been conducted in developed countries where DDT is not used and exposure is relatively low.\n\nIllegal diversion to agriculture is also a concern as it is difficult to prevent and its subsequent use on crops is uncontrolled. For example, DDT use is widespread in Indian agriculture, particularly mango production and is reportedly used by librarians to protect books. Other examples include Ethiopia, where DDT intended for malaria control is reportedly used in coffee production, and Ghana where it is used for fishing.\" The residues in crops at levels unacceptable for export have been an important factor in bans in several tropical countries. Adding to this problem is a lack of skilled personnel and management.\n\nA few people and groups have argued that limitations on DDT use for public health purposes have caused unnecessary morbidity and mortality from vector-borne diseases, with some claims of malaria deaths ranging as high as the hundreds of thousands and millions. Robert Gwadz of the US National Institutes of Health said in 2007, \"The ban on DDT may have killed 20 million children.\" These arguments were rejected as \"outrageous\" by former WHO scientist Socrates Litsios. May Berenbaum, University of Illinois entomologist, says, \"to blame environmentalists who oppose DDT for more deaths than Hitler is worse than irresponsible.\" More recently, Dr. Michael Palmer, a professor of chemistry at the University of Waterloo, has pointed out that DDT is still used to prevent malaria, that its declining use is primarily due to increases in manufacturing costs, and that in Africa, efforts to control malaria have been regional or local, not comprehensive.\nCriticisms of a DDT \"ban\" often specifically reference the 1972 United States ban (with the erroneous implication that this constituted a worldwide ban and prohibited use of DDT in vector control). Reference is often made to \"Silent Spring,\" even though Carson never pushed for a DDT ban. John Quiggin and Tim Lambert wrote, \"the most striking feature of the claim against Carson is the ease with which it can be refuted.\"\n\nInvestigative journalist Adam Sarvana and others characterize these notions as \"myths\" promoted principally by Roger Bate of the pro-DDT advocacy group Africa Fighting Malaria (AFM).\n\nOrganophosphate and carbamate insecticides, \"e.g.\" malathion and bendiocarb, respectively, are more expensive than DDT per kilogram and are applied at roughly the same dosage. Pyrethroids such as deltamethrin are also more expensive than DDT, but are applied more sparingly (0.02–0.3 g/m vs 1–2 g/m), so the net cost per house is about the same.\n\nBefore DDT, malaria was successfully eliminated or curtailed in several tropical areas by removing or poisoning mosquito breeding grounds and larva habitats, for example by eliminating standing water. These methods have seen little application in Africa for more than half a century. According to CDC, such methods are not practical in Africa because \"\"Anopheles gambiae\", one of the primary vectors of malaria in Africa, breeds in numerous small pools of water that form due to rainfall ... It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict when and where the breeding sites will form, and to find and treat them before the adults emerge.\"\n\nThe relative effectiveness of IRS versus other malaria control techniques (e.g. bednets or prompt access to anti-malarial drugs) varies and is dependent on local conditions.\n\nA WHO study released in January 2008 found that mass distribution of insecticide-treated mosquito nets and artemisinin–based drugs cut malaria deaths in half in malaria-burdened Rwanda and Ethiopia. IRS with DDT did not play an important role in mortality reduction in these countries.\n\nVietnam has enjoyed declining malaria cases and a 97% mortality reduction after switching in 1991 from a poorly funded DDT-based campaign to a program based on prompt treatment, bednets and pyrethroid group insecticides.\n\nIn Mexico, effective and affordable chemical and non-chemical strategies were so successful that the Mexican DDT manufacturing plant ceased production due to lack of demand.\n\nA review of fourteen studies in sub-Saharan Africa, covering insecticide-treated nets, residual spraying, chemoprophylaxis for children, chemoprophylaxis or intermittent treatment for pregnant women, a hypothetical vaccine and changing front–line drug treatment, found decision making limited by the lack of information on the costs and effects of many interventions, the small number of cost-effectiveness analyses, the lack of evidence on the costs and effects of packages of measures and the problems in generalizing or comparing studies that relate to specific settings and use different methodologies and outcome measures. The two cost-effectiveness estimates of DDT residual spraying examined were not found to provide an accurate estimate of the cost-effectiveness of DDT spraying; the resulting estimates may not be good predictors of cost-effectiveness in current programs.\n\nHowever, a study in Thailand found the cost per malaria case prevented of DDT spraying (US$1.87) to be 21% greater than the cost per case prevented of lambda-cyhalothrin–treated nets (US$1.54), casting some doubt on the assumption that DDT was the most cost-effective measure. The director of Mexico's malaria control program found similar results, declaring that it was 25% cheaper for Mexico to spray a house with synthetic pyrethroids than with DDT. However, another study in South Africa found generally lower costs for DDT spraying than for impregnated nets.\n\nA more comprehensive approach to measuring cost-effectiveness or efficacy of malarial control would not only measure the cost in dollars, as well as the number of people saved, but would also consider ecological damage and negative human health impacts. One preliminary study found that it is likely that the detriment to human health approaches or exceeds the beneficial reductions in malarial cases, except perhaps in epidemics. It is similar to the earlier study regarding estimated theoretical infant mortality caused by DDT and subject to the criticism also mentioned earlier.\n\nA study in the Solomon Islands found that \"although impregnated bed nets cannot entirely replace DDT spraying without substantial increase in incidence, their use permits reduced DDT spraying.\"\n\nA comparison of four successful programs against malaria in Brazil, India, Eritrea and Vietnam does not endorse any single strategy but instead states, \"Common success factors included conducive country conditions, a targeted technical approach using a package of effective tools, data-driven decision-making, active leadership at all levels of government, involvement of communities, decentralized implementation and control of finances, skilled technical and managerial capacity at national and sub-national levels, hands-on technical and programmatic support from partner agencies, and sufficient and flexible financing.\"\n\nDDT resistant mosquitoes have generally proved susceptible to pyrethroids. Thus far, pyrethroid resistance in \"Anopheles\" has not been a major problem.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27351", "title": "Demographics of Solomon islands", "text": "Demographics of Solomon islands\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Solomon Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nThe Solomon Islanders comprise diverse cultures, languages, and customs. Of its, 94.5% are Melanesian, 3% Polynesian, and 1.2% Micronesian. In addition, small numbers of Europeans and Chinese are registered. About 120 vernaculars are spoken.\n\nMost people reside in small, widely dispersed settlements along the coasts. Sixty percent live in localities with fewer than 200 persons, and only 10% reside in urban areas.\n\nThe capital city of Honiara is situated on Guadalcanal, the largest island. The other principal towns are Gizo, Auki, and Kirakira.\n\nMost Solomon Islanders are Christian, with the Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic, South Seas Evangelical, and Seventh-day Adventist faiths predominating. About 5% of the population maintain traditional beliefs.\n\nThe chief characteristics of the traditional Melanesian social structure are:\n\nMost Solomon Islanders maintain this traditional social structure and find their roots in village life.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from The World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "230440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230440", "title": "Droit du seigneur", "text": "Droit du seigneur\n\nDroit du seigneur (; , 'lord's right'), also known as jus primae noctis (; , 'right of the first night'), refers to a supposed legal right in medieval Europe, allowing feudal lords to have sexual relations with subordinate women, in particular, on their wedding nights.\n\nSome scholars believe the \"right\" might have existed in medieval Europe. Others say that it is a myth, and that all references to it are from later periods.\n\nSimilar customs have been recorded elsewhere.\n\nThe French expression \"droit du seigneur\" translates as \"right of the lord\", but native French prefer the terms \"droit de jambage\" (, from \"jambe\", 'leg') or \"droit de cuissage\" (, from \"cuisse\", 'thigh').\n\nThe term is often used synonymously with \"jus primae noctis\", Latin for \"right of the first night\".\n\nIn the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", Gilgamesh is described as having practiced a similar custom: \"He is king, he does whatever he wants... takes the girl from her mother and uses her, the warrior's daughter, the young man's bride.\"\n\nHerodotus mentions a similar custom among the Adyrmachidae in ancient Libya: \"They are also the only tribe with whom the custom obtains of bringing all women about to become brides before the king, that he may choose such as are agreeable to him.\"\n\nWhen the plebians of the Etruscan city of Volsinii rebelled against the aristocrats in 280 BC, \"They took their wives for themselves and placed the daughters of the nobles under the \"jus primae noctis\", while all their former masters on whom they could lay hands were tortured to death.\"\n\nThe medieval marriage fine or merchet has been interpreted as a payment for the \"droit du seigneur\" to be waived. Alternatively, it has been interpreted as compensation to the lord for the young women leaving his lands. \n\nA similar payment to church authorities has also been interpreted as relating the \"droit du seigneur\". However, according to British scholar WD Howarth, the church at some times prohibited consummation of a marriage on the first night. The payment was for an indulgence from the church to waive this prohibition.\n\nThe life of Gerald of Aurillac written by Odo of Cluny (879-942) gives an account of the young nobleman demanding sex with one of his serfs, only to have the act averted by a miracle, sending Gerald on the road to sainthood. American historian Vern Bullough suggested that this illustrates that such behaviour was commonplace in the period, and that the \"legend [of \"droit du seigneur\"] reflected the reality\".\n\nIn the fourteenth-century French epic poem \"Baudouin de Sebourc\", a tyrannical lord claims the \"jus primae noctis\" unless he receives part of the bride's dowry.\n\nThe supposed right was abolished by Ferdinand II of Aragon in Article 9 of the \"Sentencia Arbitral de Guadalupe\" in 1486.\n\nIn 1527, Scottish historian Hector Boece wrote that the \"right\" had existed in Scotland until abolished by Malcolm III (r. 1058-93) under the influence of his wife, Margaret (later St Margaret of Scotland). The payment of merchet was instituted in its place. Boece attributed the law to a legendary King Ewen (Evenus) III. Modern French scholar Alain Boureau says that Boece probably invented King Ewen, but he was mythologising not polemicising.\n\nOther Scottish scholars of his era quoted Boece with approval, including John Lesley (1578), George Buchanan (1582), and Habbakuk Bisset (1626). The historical existence of the custom in Scotland was also accepted in Scottish legal works such as James Balfour's \"Practicks\" (c 1579), John Skene's \"De Verborum\" (1597), and Thomas Craig's \"Jus Feudale\" (1603). English scholar Henry Spelman stated in his \"Glossary\" (1664) that the custom had existed in Scotland, but not in England. English jurist William Blackstone cited Boece's statement in his Commentaries on the Laws of England (1765–1769), while similarly noting that the custom had never existed in England. In 1776, Scottish jurist David Dalrymple disputed the existence of the custom, arguing Boece's account was purely legendary, but his position was often seen as based on Scottish patriotism. However, according to Scottish legal scholar David Maxwell Walker, there have been instances recorded of the \"jus\" being claimed up to the eighteenth century. Walker concluded that it is possible that the \"jus\" existed as a custom in Scotland, dependent on the attitude of the king, and survived longer in remote regions.\n\nThe right was mentioned in 1556 in the \"Recueil d'arrêts notables des cours souveraines de France\" of French lawyer and author Jean Papon. French writer Antoine du Verdier also commented on it in 1577.\n\nIn Shakespeare's play, \"Henry VI, Part 2\" (c 1591), the rebel Jack Cade proclaimed, \"there shall not a maid be married, but she shall pay to me her maidenhead ere they have it\". According to French scholar Alain Boureau, Cade was demanding the payment of merchet, not the right of first night, but others disagree.\n\nThe Spanish novel Los trabajos de Persiles y Sigismunda (1617) by Miguel de Cervantes contains an episode where a bride and groom escape a barbaric marriage custom in Ireland. According to British scholar WD Howarth, Cervantes was inspired by Peruvian marriage ceremonies and what is described is different from the classic version of the \"droit du seigneur\" as it involves multiple virgins. However, Cervantes' story was a source for the English play The Custom of the Country, written by John Fletcher and Philip Massinger and published in 1647. The play has the classic version of the \"right of first night\" with money payment as an alternative. According to Howarth, this suggests that \"droit du seigneur\" was a familiar notion to people at that time, which he traces back to Boece.\n\nThe Jesuit hagiographical work Acta Sanctorum (Acts of the Saints), published from 1643 onwards, recorded the existence of \"jus primae noctis\" in its biographies of St Margaret and St Forannan.\n\nEnglish lexicographer Thomas Blount recorded the \"right\" as a medieval custom of some English manors in \"Fragmenta Antiquitatis\" in 1679.\n\nFrench philosopher Montesquieu referred to the practice in The Spirit of the Laws (1748), saying that it had been enforced in France over three nights.\nVoltaire mentioned the practice in his \"Dictionnaire philosophique\", published in 1764. He wrote the five-act comedy \"Le droit du seigneur\" or \"L'écueil du sage\" in 1762, although it was not performed until 1779, after his death. This play was the first time the term \"droit du seigneur\" was used. In eighteenth-century France, a number of writers made other claims about the supposed power of the overlords during the Ancien Régime, such as the \"droit de ravage\" (right of ravage; providing to the lord the right to devastate fields of his own domain), and the \"droit de prélassement\" (right of lounging; it was said that a lord had the right to disembowel his serfs to warm his feet in).\n\nAfter their travels in Scotland in 1773, Samuel Johnson and James Boswell documented the custom of the payment of merchet, linking it with the \"right of first night\". They paralleled it with that custom of Borough English, suggesting that the English custom favored the youngest son because the paternity of the eldest son was doubtful.\n\nIn Mozart's \"The Marriage of Figaro\", which premiered in 1786 with a libretto by Lorenzo Da Ponte, the comic plot revolves around the successful efforts of the young bride and groom, Figaro and Susanna, to block the efforts of the unfaithful Count Almaviva to seduce Susanna. To achieve his aim, the frustrated Count threatens to reinstitute \"droit du seigneur\". It was based on a play by Pierre Beaumarchais.\n\nBritish writer Isaac D'Israeli stated the practice had been widespread across Europe in his best-selling book, \"The Curiosities of Literature\" (1823). Sir Walter Scott mentioned the custom in his historical Scottish novel, The Fair Maid of Perth (1828).\n\nScholars in the nineteenth and twentieth century gave the historical basis of the \"right of first night\" a good deal of attention. Over time, the Encyclopædia Britannica and the Larousse encyclopedias dramatically changed their opinion on the topic. French writer Louis Veuillot, a champion of Catholicism, wrote a book in 1854 disputing its existence. After an historical exhaustive study, German jurist Karl Schmidt concluded in 1881 that it was a scholarly misconception. After Schmidt, many of those who believed in the existence of the custom based their opinions on anthropological studies of tribal societies, though according to WD Howarth this was a misguided argument because of the disparity between the tribal societies and medieval European society.\n\nIn \"The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State\" in 1884, socialist Friedrich Engels argued it was real and had an anthropological origin. \n\nIn 1930, Scottish legal scholar Hector McKechnie concluded, based on historical evidence, that the practice had existed in Scotland in early times.\n\nItalian scholar Paolo Mantegazza, in his 1935 book \"The Sexual Relations of Mankind\", said that while not a law, it was most likely a binding custom.\n\nAs late as the nineteenth century, some Kurdish chieftains in Anatolia raped Armenian brides on their wedding night (part of what was then known as the \"khafir\" or \"hafir\" system).\n\nIn the Hawaiian Islands, marriage in the Western sense did not exist until the arrival of Christian missionaries; there was no word for husband or wife in the Hawaiian language. The privilege for chiefs was often observed, according to \"Sexual Behavior in Pre Contact Hawai‘i\" by Milton Diamond. A young girl's parents viewed the coupling with favor. If she were lucky, she might conceive his offspring and be allowed to keep it. When western ships arrived, young girls and wives eagerly coupled with sailors who, given their weapons and large ships, were thought to be gods.\n\nThe term has also been used to describe the sexual exploitation of slaves in the American colonies.\n\nIn modern times Zaire's president Mobutu Sese Seko appropriated the \"droit de cuissage\" when traveling around the country where local chiefs offered him virgins; this act was considered a great honor for the virgin's family.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2529783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2529783", "title": "East Indians", "text": "East Indians\n\nEast Indians or East Indian Catholics, are an ethno-religious Indian Christian community who are members of the Catholic Church. They live primarily in the city of Mumbai, with smaller populations in portions of Palghar and Thane districts in the Indian state of Maharashtra.\n\nAccording to tradition, Bartholomew the Apostle visited India and elsewhere during the first century AD. The Dominican friar Jordanus Catalani, who was Catalan or Occitan (southern French), began evangelizing in Sopara, Thana and north Konkan. Sopara was an ancient port and an international trading center.\n\nMost Indian church history was lost between the ninth and fourteenth centuries as Persia converted to Nestorianism in 800 AD. Since church offices and public worship was dependent on a foreign source, when the foreign aid was withdrawn Indians became nominal Christians.\n\nThe Portuguese came to India in 1498, and their policy was to return the Indian Christians to Roman Catholicism. Although Brahmins and other high-status Hindus who were ceremoniously converted by the Portuguese were treated with honor and distinction, groups engaged in agriculture, fishing and other rural occupations handed down by their ancestors received neither secular nor religious education. Among the Portuguese converts were a number of descendants of the Christian community reportedly founded by Apostle St. Bartholomew, whom the Portuguese molded into a community sometimes known as \"Portuguese Christians\".\n\nThe Franciscans spearheaded the evangelization of the \"Province of the North\" (Província do Norte). From 1534 to 1552 a priest, António do Porto, converted over 10,000 people, built a dozen churches and founded a number of orphanages and monasteries. Prominent among the converts were two yogis from the Kanheri Caves who became known as Paulo Raposo and Francisco de Santa Maria. They introduced Christianity to their fellow yogis, converting many in the process. Another notable convert during this period was the Brahmin astrologer Parashuram Joshi, who was baptized on 8 September 1565 with the name Henrique da Cunha. Joshi was followed by 250 Hindus, including over 50 Brahmins. In Salsette, the priest Manuel Gomes converted over 6,000 Hindus in Bandra and was known as the Apostle of Salsette.\n\nIn 1573, 1,600 people were converted. Beginning in 1548, Jesuits in Bassein (Baçaim) and Bandra converted many upper-class Indians; Bassein Cathedral recorded 9,400 baptisms. The Jesuit superior Gonçalo Rodrigues baptized between 5,000 and 6,000 people in Thane (Tana), many of whom were orphans or the young children of lower-caste Hindus who were sold by their parents. By the end of the 16th century the Roman Catholic population of the Portuguese Province of the North was 10,000 to 15,000, centered mainly in and around Bassein.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Portuguese by the Maratha, Catholics were discriminated against by the state government. Following the fall of Bassein, many Catholics were heavily taxed by Maratha who used the money to feed Brahmins and conduct a successful campaign to return them to Hinduism. Most Portuguese priests were forced to leave, and only five churches (three in Bassein City, one in Bassein District and one in Salsette) were permitted to remain. The remainder of the Christian population was left to native clergy under a vicar general in Kurla. When Antequil du Perron visited Salsette in 1757, he found a flourishing Catholic population with many churches rebuilt and Christianity practiced openly but no European priests.\n\nChanges occurred under British rule. On 11 May 1661, the marriage treaty of Charles II of England and Catherine of Braganza—Catarina de Bragança, daughter of King João IV of Portugal—made Bombay part of the British Empire as intended since the British takeover of Surat (allegedly as part of Catherine's dowry to Charles). A weakened Portugal, no longer part of the Crown of Spain, had to oblige. Nevertheless, parts of present-day Mumbai (such as Bandra, Thane and Vasai) remained Portuguese well into the first third of the 18th century. Since the early days of the East India Company, there were no other Indian Christians in the North Konkan except the East Indian Catholics. Employment intended for Christians was monopolized by the East Indians. With railways and steamships came immigrants from Goa who were also known as Portuguese Christians. The British adopted a designation which would distinguish\nthe Christians of North Konkan (who were British subjects) from the Goan Catholics, who were Portuguese subjects (the Mangalorean Catholics were no longer Portuguese subjects). For Queen Victoria's Golden Jubilee, the Christians of North Konkan changed their name from \"Portuguese Christians\" to \"East Indian\" to impress on the British government of Bombay that they were the earliest Roman Catholic subjects of the British Crown in that part of India and were entitled to certain natural rights and privileges compared with the immigrants.\n\nThe Bombay East Indian Association was founded on 26 May 1887 to advance the education, employment, rights and economic development of the East Indians. P. F. Gomes, who was knighted by Pope Leo XIII in 1888, was its first president and J. L. Britto its first sSecretary. D. G. Almeida donated to establish an education fund.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the Archdiocese of Bombay estimated that there were 92,000 East Indians in Bombay: 76,000 in suburban Bombay and 16,000 in the city.\n\nIn September 2014, local non-governmental organizations such as the Watchdog Foundation, Mobai Gaothan Panchayat, the Bombay East India Association, Vakola Advanced Locality Management, Kalina Civic Forum and the Kolovery Welfare Association formed the Maharashtra Swaraj Party (MSP). \nThe party, which represents the East Indian community, was expected to support five candidates from Mumbai's suburbs in the 13th Maharashtra Legislative Assembly elections.\n\nA typical Koli house consists of a veranda (\"oli\"), used for repairing nets and receiving visitors; a sitting-room (\"angan\"), used by women for household work; a kitchen, a central apartment, a bedroom, a devotional room (\"devaghar\") and a detached bathroom.\n\nEast Indian Catholics speak a dialect of Marathi, which they retained despite Portuguese influence. The Marathi language is central to the community's identity. The author of \"Trans. Bomb. Geog. Soc., 1836–38, Vol. I.\" mentions the dialect of Marathi spoken by the East Indians of Salsette, Mahim, Matunga and Mazagon, similar to the language spoken by the Kulbis, Kolis, Bhandaris, Palshes, Prabhus, Panchkalshis, Kuparis and Vadvals; this may have been Konkani. Some East Indian upper-class families in the Khatri ward of Thane speak Portuguese. 110 Portuguese lexical items are found in Marathi.\n\nAlthough the East indians have preserved their pre-Christian Marathi culture and traditions, many Portuguese influences have been absorbed.\n\nTraditional dress for women is the \"lugra\", and for men are khaki shorts and a white \"banian\". A Koli Christian bridegroom usually wears an older Portuguese admiral's uniform, which is preserved and lent out for such occasions.\nEast Indian women wore a blouse and cotton \"lugra\", with the back pleats tucked into the waist; women did not use of the upper portion of the sari (covering the head and breast) until they were married. This mode of wearing the sari is known as \"sakacch nesane\". \"Gol nesane\", a cylindrical style, is popular with young girls and women.\n\nThere are five East Indian cultural groups: Kulbis, Samavedi Christians (commonly called Kuparis), Koli Christians, Wadvals and Salsette Christians.\n\nThe film \"Tu Maza Jeev\", in the East Indian language, was released on Maharashtra Day in 2009.\n\nEast Indians organise singing competitions in their own language. The competition is primarily held in the evening of important village occasions; for example, Kurla has an annual competition on the eve of the \"phool dongri\" feast in May at Holy Cross Church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9165537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9165537", "title": "Eastern Lunda", "text": "Eastern Lunda\n\nThe Lunda people of the Luapula River valley in Zambia and DR Congo are called by others the Eastern Lunda to distinguish them from the 'western' Lunda people who remained in the heartland of the former Lunda Kingdom, but they themselves would use Kazembe-Lunda or Luunda with an elongated 'u' to make that distinction. (The name 'Lunda' may also be spelled Luunda).\n\nThe Eastern Lunda migrated in the 18th Century to their current area under the leader Mwata Kazembe. Their neighbours in northern Zambia to whom they are allied, the Bemba, did so at the same time, and the Eastern Lunda took on the Bemba language in place of the Chilunda, their original language. Their (western) Lunda compatriots in the North-Western Province of Zambia still speak Chilunda however.\n\nSee the Wikipedia entry for Kazembe for history, geography and culture of the Eastern Lunda.\n"}
{"id": "54697286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54697286", "title": "Economic transformation", "text": "Economic transformation\n\nIn economics, economic transformation refers to the continuous process of (1) moving labour and other resources from lower- to higher-productivity sectors (structural change or structural transformation) and (2) raising within-sector productivity growth. As such, economic transformation emphasises the movement from low- to high-productivity activities within and across all sectors (which can be tasks or activities that are combinations of agriculture, manufacturing and services). This movement of resources from lower productivity to higher-productivity activities is a key driver of economic development.<br> \n\nWithin-sector productivity growth entails the adoption of new technologies and management practices that increase the efficiency of production. It can come about as a result of the increased efficiency of existing firms or as a result of the reallocation of resources away from the least productive firms towards more productive firms.\n\nEconomic transformation can be measured through production/value-added measures and trade-based measures. Production-based measures include: (1) sector value added and employment data, to show productivity gaps between sectors; and (2) firm-level productivity measures, to examine average productivity levels of firms within one sector. \n\nTrade-based measures include: (1) measures of revealed comparative advantage to show the levels of specialisation of a country in certain exports; and (2) export diversification measures such as those produced by the International Monetary Fund.\n\nWorral, L. K. Vrolijk, C. Mason and N. Balchin (2015). \"Baseline on economic transformation: Review of the international, regional and domestic literature on economic transformation.\" <br>\nMcMillan, M., J. Page, D. Booth and D.W. te Velde (2017). \"Supporting Economic Transformation: An approach paper.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54333290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54333290", "title": "Edward Shihadeh", "text": "Edward Shihadeh\n\nEdward S. Shihadeh is an American sociologist and criminologist. He is professor and chair of sociology at Louisiana State University (LSU) in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. At LSU, he also coordinates the Crime and Policy Evaluation Research Group, which he co-founded with Matthew Lee in 2005. He began his academic career in mathematical demography, but later became interested in researching crime and deviance as they pertained to urban black communities. He leads a team of researchers at LSU that analyze data from the Baton Rouge Area Violence Elimination (BRAVE), an anti-crime initiative based on Operation Ceasefire.\n\n"}
{"id": "18012908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18012908", "title": "Game System License", "text": "Game System License\n\nThe Game System License is a license that allows third-party publishers to create products compatible with and using the intellectual property from the 4th edition of \"Dungeons & Dragons\" (\"D&D\"). It was released by Wizards of the Coast (WotC) to the public on June 17, 2008.\n\nA System Reference Document (SRD) of the 3rd edition of \"D&D\" had been licensed under the Open Gaming License (OGL). The OGL is a copyright license, allowing the use of copyrighted text created by others in one's products. Also released at the same time was the d20 System Trademark License, allowing third-party publishers to indicate compatibility using a system logo, but not allowing the use of the \"D&D\" trademark.\n\nThe GSL, however, grants use of the 4th Edition System Reference Document, which lists trademarks, words, and short phrases that could be used to refer to materials in the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" 4th edition rules, but contains no rules itself. People wishing to use this license are also granted a logo that must be placed onto their products to state that they are compatible with \"Dungeon & Dragons\" 4th Edition. The license also can be updated by Wizards of the Coast and updates affect all licensees; in case of litigation the licensees must pay the legal costs of Wizards of the Coast.\n\nPrior to Gen Con 2008, it was announced that the GSL was undergoing a revision. Shortly after the end of the convention a number of Wizards of the Coast's jobs were eliminated, including the Licensing Manager position that was held by Linae Foster.\n\nWith the release of the 5th edition of \"D&D\" in 2014, and the release under the OGL of an SRD for that edition, the GSL fell into disuse, though it remains the only license for 4th edition. \n"}
{"id": "3116091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3116091", "title": "Germans in Paraguay", "text": "Germans in Paraguay\n\nThe German minority in Paraguay came into existence with immigration during the industrial age. The \"Nueva Germania\" colony was founded in Paraguay in 1888; though regarded as a failure, still exists despite being abandoned by many of its founders in the 1890s. Paraguay was a popular place for German leaders accused of war crimes to retreat after the second World War. Also, there is a large minority of German descendants living in the department of Itapúa, mainly in the Departmental Capital, Encarnación and the German town of Hohenau. Most of the Germans who settle in this region came from the larger German colonies from neighboring Brazil and Argentina. Some recent Brazilian immigrants to Paraguay have also German ancestry (Brasiguayos). Notable Paraguayans of German descent include the former president of Paraguay Alfredo Stroessner.\n\nAnother large group of Germans who immigrated to Paraguay are Russian Mennonites, Germans who immigrated to Russia under the rule of the ethnic German Czarina Catherine the Great. The Paraguayan Mennonite community left Russia in two waves: the first in the 19th century when their exemption from military service ended, and the second to avoid Stalin's collectivization programs. Russian Mennonites are different from another German-Russian group, the Volga Germans, through religion and reasons of immigrating to Russia. Russian Mennonites are religious Mennonites while the Volga Germans are religious Lutherans and Roman Catholics. Russian Mennonites went to Russia for purposes of freedom of worship, while the Volga Germans went for economic reasons and land.\n\nWhen the Communists came to power in Russia, the German-speaking population were persecuted by the new Soviet Government. Some Russian Mennonites saw Paraguay as a perfect place to settle because it looked isolated. The government of Paraguay wanted settlement in the Chaco region, which was under dispute with its southern neighbor, Argentina, and its western neighbor, Bolivia. The move to Paraguay was difficult for the Russian Mennonites, because they were new to the climate. Some Russian Mennonites left Paraguay for neighboring Argentina, where they met many Volga Germans, who decided to settle in Argentina to escape the persecution in Russia. The situation changed and the Russian Mennonites began to prosper in Paraguay.\n\nThe Russian Mennonites settled in the Boquerón Department in Paraguay. They established the Fernheim Colony, which includes the town of Filadelfia; Neuland Colony; and Menno Colony. The descendants of the Russian Mennonite immigrants continue to live these colonies.\n\nGerman schools:\n\nHistoric German schools:\n\n"}
{"id": "481834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=481834", "title": "History of the Jews in China", "text": "History of the Jews in China\n\nJews and Judaism in China are predominantly composed of Sephardi Jews and their descendants. Other Jewish ethnic divisions are also represented, including Ashkenazi Jews, Mizrahi Jews and a number of converts.\n\nThe Jewish Chinese community manifests a wide range of Jewish cultural traditions, and it also encompasses the full spectrum of Jewish religious observance. Though a small minority, Chinese Jews have had an open presence in the country since the arrival of the first Jewish immigrants during the 8th century CE. Relatively isolated communities of Jews developed through the Tang and Song Dynasties (7th to 13th centuries CE) all the way through the Qing Dynasty (19th century), most notably the Kaifeng Jews (the term \"Chinese Jews\" is often used in a restricted sense in order to refer to these communities). Unlike other places, the Chinese authorities had tremendous respect for Jewish communities and they did not face significant anti-Semitism in comparison to Europe and America.\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th centuries, Jewish merchants from around the world began to trade in Chinese ports, particularly in the commercial centers of Hong Kong, which was for a time a British colony; Shanghai (the International Settlement and French Concession); and Harbin (the Trans-Siberian Railway). In the first half of the 20th century, thousands of Jewish refugees escaping from the 1917 Russian Revolution arrived in China. By the time of the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949, only a few Chinese Jews were known to have maintained the practice of their religion and culture though the Kaifeng synagogue survived for around seven centuries until 1860. China's Jewish communities have been ethnically diverse ranging from the Jews of Kaifeng and other places during the history of Imperial China, who, it is reported, came to be more or less totally assimilated into the majority Han Chinese populace due to widespread intermarriage. In the late 20th and early 21st centuries, however, some international Jewish groups have helped Chinese Jews rediscover their Jewish heritage and reconnect with their Jewish roots.\n\nThough Israel established diplomatic relations with China in 1992, the ties between the Chinese and Jewish peoples remain centuries old in addition to Israel and China being products of ancient civilizations dating back thousands of years. The cultural similarities between the Chinese and Jewish civilizations with both nations originating thousands of years ago have drawn the two countries closer together making the two countries natural partners on the international stage.\n\nJews remain a small minority in China, but unlike Jewish communities in many other parts of the world, Jews have historically lived in China without any instances of antisemitism from the Han majority populace contributing to mutual respect and admiration between the two peoples. Modern Han Chinese have developed a favorable view of Jews, admiring them for their contributions to humanity, their ability to survive, the sharing of Chinese values such as family, frugality, hard work and education, and being products of ancient civilizations have been an impetus towards the long and enduring friendship between the Chinese and Jewish peoples. With the intrinsic affinity that the Chinese people feel for the Jews, relations between the two communities have been mutually close, harmonious and friendly, due to shared common cultural similarities between the two peoples which has resulted in Jews enjoying equal rights and coexisting peacefully alongside the mainstream Han Chinese populace with instances of Jews assimilating into the Han Chinese community through intermarriage. Shared affinities and similar cultural commonalities has not only been an impetus for the close bonds between China and Israel but has also created a symbol of brotherhood between the two communities.\n\nChina’s first contact with the Jewish people came as a result of the development of the Silk Road, an ancient trade route linking China with the Middle East and Europe that was created during the Han Dynasty in 206 BCE and incorporated existing trade routes that were established 200 years earlier by the Persian Achaemenid Empire. The first wave of Jews to China traveled from West Asia over the Silk Road and by sea via India during the Tang dynasty (618 – 907 CE). They consisted of Babylonian and Persian Jews (modern day Iraq and Iran) who traveled along the Silk Road and received the Tang Emperor’s blessing to reside in Kaifeng. They eventually formed a distinct Kaifeng Jewish Community during the Song Dynasty where many eventually became prominent government officials, doctors, rabbis, and businessmen. They eventually assimilated into Chinese culture, learned the language, and began to intermarry with the Han populace. Other Western scholars speculate that the first wave of Jewish settlement in China may have arrived even earlier during the Later Han dynasty (25 – 220 CE), which coincides with the Roman persecution of Judean Jews after the Roman destroyed the Temple at Jerusalem in 70 CE. The presence of a community of Jewish immigrants in China is consistent with the history of the Jewish people during the first and second millennia CE, which saw them disperse and settle throughout the Eurasian landmass, with an especially large concentration of Jews settling throughout Central Asia. By the 9th century, the Persian geographer ibn Khordadbeh noted the travels of Jewish merchants called \"Radhanites\", whose trade took them to China via the Silk Road through Central Asia and India. He mentioned the presence of Jewish merchants in a number of Chinese cities, and the important economic role they played transporting merchandise as well as transmitting scientific and technological expertise by land and sea all the way from Spain and France via the Middle East to China. The medieval Italian explorer Jacob of Ancona, the supposed author of a book of travels, was a scholarly Jewish merchant who wrote in vernacular Italian, and reached China in 1271, although some authors question its veracity.\n\nDuring the period of China's opening to the West and British quasi-colonialism, the first group to settle in China were Jews who arrived in China under British protection following the First Opium War. Many of these Jews were of Sephardic Indian or Iraqi origin, due to significant British colonialism in these regions. The second community came in the first decades of the 20th century when many Jews arrived in Hong Kong and Shanghai during those cities' periods of economic expansion.\nMany more Jews arrived as refugees from the Russian Revolution of 1917. A surge of Jews and Jewish families was to arrive in the late 1930s and 1940s, for the purpose of seeking refuge from the Holocaust in Europe and were predominantly of European origin. Shanghai was notable for its volume of Jewish refugees, most of whom left after the war, the rest relocating prior to or immediately after the establishment of the People's Republic of China.\n\nOver the centuries, the Kaifeng community came to be virtually indistinguishable from the Han Chinese population and is not recognized by the Chinese government as a separate ethnic minority. This is as a result of having maintained already-Jewish and adopted many Han Chinese customs including patrilineal descent and extensive intermarriage with the local Han population. Since their religious practices are considered to be functionally extinct, they are not eligible for expedited immigration to Israel under the Law of Return unless they explicitly convert.\n\nToday, many descendants of the Jews have assimilated into the majority Han Chinese populace. Some of them, as well as international Jewish communities are beginning to search for these descendants to help them revive their interest in their Jewish roots. This is especially important in modern China because belonging to any minority group includes a variety of benefits including reduced restrictions on the number of children and easier admission standards to tertiary education.\n\nThe study of Judaism in China has been, like other Abrahamic religions, a subject of interest to some Westerners, and has achieved moderate success compared to other Western studies in China.\n\nIt has been asserted by some that the Jews who have historically resided in various places in China originated with the Lost Ten Tribes of the exiled ancient Kingdom of Israel who relocated to the areas of present-day China. Traces of some ancient Jewish rituals have been observed in some places.\n\nOne well-known group was the Kaifeng Jews, who are purported to have traveled from Persia to India during the mid-Han Dynasty and later migrated from the Muslim-inhabited regions of northwestern China (modern day Gansu province) to Henan province during the early Northern Song Dynasty (960-1127).\n\nThere is an oral tradition that the first Jews immigrated to China through Persia following the Roman Emperor Titus's capture of Jerusalem in 70 CE. A large number of Jews emigrated from Persia during the reign of Emperor Ming of Han (58-75 CE).\nWriting in 1900, Father Joseph Brucker hypothesized that Jews came to China from India by a sea route during the Song dynasty between 960 and 1126.\n\nThree steles with inscriptions found at Kaifeng bear some historical suggestions. The oldest, dating from 1489, commemorates the construction of a synagogue (1163) (bearing the name \"Qīngzhēn Sì\", a term often used for mosque in Chinese), states the Jews entered China from India in the Later Han Dynasty (25–220 CE), the Jews' 70 Chinese surnames, their audience with an \"un-named\" Song Dynasty Emperor, and finally lists the transmission of their religion from Abraham down to the prophet Ezra. The second tablet, dated 1512 (found in the synagogue \"Xuanzhang Daojing Si\") details the Jews' religious practices. The third is dated 1663 and commemorates the re-rebuilding of the \"Qingzhen si\" synagogue and recaps the information from the other two steles.\n\nFather Joseph Brucker believed Matteo Ricci's manuscripts indicate there were only approximately ten or twelve Jewish families in Kaifeng in the late 16th and early 17th century, and that they had reportedly resided there for five or six hundred years. It was also stated in the manuscripts that there was a greater number of Jews in Hangzhou. This could be taken to suggest that loyal Jews fled south along with the soon-to-be crowned Emperor Gaozong to Hangzhou. In fact, the 1489 stele mentions how the Jews \"abandoned Bianliang\" (Kaifeng) after the Jingkang Incident.\n\nMany Jewish communities were established in China in the Middle Ages. However, not all left evidence of their existence. The following are those known today: Kaifeng, Hangzhou, Ningbo, Yangzhou, and Ningxia.\n\nThe contemporary term for Jews in use among Chinese today is \"Youtairen\" () in Mandarin Chinese. The term \"Youtai\" has a similar pronunciation to \"יהודאי\" (\"Yehudai\")--the \"Aramaic\" word for Jew—and to \"Ἰουδαῖος\" (\"iudaios\"), the Greek word.\n\nIt has been recorded that the Chinese historically called the Jews \"Tiao jin jiao\" (挑筋教), loosely, \"the religion which removes the sinew,\" probably referring to the Jewish dietary prohibition against eating the sciatic nerve (from \"Genesis\" 32:32).\n\nJewish dietary law (\"kashruth\"), which forbids the eating of, among other foods, non-ruminant mammals, shellfish and reptiles, would have most likely caused Jewish communities to stand out from the surrounding mainstream Chinese population, as Chinese culture is typically very free in the range of items it deems suitable for food.\n\nJews have also been called the Blue-Hat Hui (), in contrast to other populations of Hui people, who have identified with hats of other colors. The distinction between Muslim and Jewish Hui is not, and historically has not been, well recognised by the dominant Han population.\n\nA modern translation of the \"Kaifeng Steles\" has shown the Jews referred to their synagogue as \"The Pure and Truth\", which is essentially the same as the term used in modern China to refer to Muslim mosques (清真寺). lǐbàisì 礼拜寺 and qīngzhēnsì 清真寺 were used as names of both synagogues and mosques by Jews and Muslims.\n\nAccording to an oral tradition dictated by Xu Xin, Director of the Center for Judaic Studies at Nanjing University, in his book \"Legends of the Chinese Jews of Kaifeng\", the Kaifeng Jews called Judaism \"Yīcìlèyè jiào\" (一賜樂業教), lit. the religion of Israel. \"Yīcìlèyè\" is a transliteration and partial translation of \"Israel\". Xu Xin translates this phrase as \"Chosen people, endowed by God, and contented with their lives and work\".\n\nThe earliest evidence showing the presence of Jews in China is from the beginning of the 8th century: a business letter written in the Judeo-Persian language, discovered by Marc Aurel Stein. The letter (now housed in the British Museum) was found in Dandan Uiliq, an important post along the Silk Road in northwest China during the Tang Dynasty (618-907). The text is thirty-seven lines in length and was written on paper, a product then manufactured only in China. It was identified, by David Samuel Margoliouth, as dating from 718 CE. Ibn Zeyd al Hassan of Siraf, a 9th-century Arabian traveler, reports that in 878 followers of the Chinese rebel leader Huang Chao besieged Canton (Guangzhou) and killed a large number of foreign merchants, Arabs, Persians, Christians, and Jews, resident there.\n\nChina was a destination for Radhanite Jews who brought boys, female slaves and eunuchs from Europe according to the Book of Roads and Kingdoms by ibn Khordadbeh. At Dandan Oilik an 8th-century document written in Judeo-Persian was found and translated by Aurel Stein.\n\nSources indicate that Jews in China were often mistaken for Muslims by other Chinese. The first plausible recorded written Chinese mention of Jews uses the term \"Zhuhu\" (竹忽), or \"Zhuhudu\" (朱乎得) (perhaps from Arabic \"Yehoud\", or from Hebrew \"Yehudim\", \"Jews\") found in the \"Annals of the Yuan Dynasty\" in 1329 and 1354. The text spoke of the reinforcement of a tax levied on \"dissenters\" and of a government decree that the Jews come en-masse to Beijing, the capital.\n\nFamous Venetian traveler Marco Polo, who visited China, then under the Yuan Dynasty, in the late 13th century, described the prominence of Jewish traders in Beijing. Similar references can be found in the notes of the Franciscan John of Montecorvino, first archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Beijing in the early 14th century, and the writings of Ibn Batuta, an Arabian envoy to the Mongol Empire in the middle of the 14th century.\n\nGenghis Khan called both Jews and Muslims \"Huihui\" when he forbade Jews and Muslims from practicing kosher and halal preparation of their food, calling both of them \"slaves\" and forcing them to eat Mongol food, and banned them from practicing circumcision.\nAmong all the [subject] alien peoples only the Hui-hui say “we do not eat Mongol food”. [Cinggis Qa’an replied:] “By the aid of heaven we have pacified you; you are our slaves. Yet you do not eat our food or drink. How can this be right?” He thereupon made them eat. “If you slaughter sheep, you will be considered guilty of a crime.” He issued a regulation to that effect ... [In 1279/1280 under Qubilai] all the Muslims say: “if someone else slaughters [the animal] we do not eat”. Because the poor people are upset by this, from now on, Musuluman [Muslim] Huihui and Zhuhu [Jewish] Huihui, no matter who kills [the animal] will eat [it] and must cease slaughtering sheep themselves, and cease the rite of circumcision.\nDuring the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644), a Ming emperor conferred seven surnames upon the Jews, by which they are identifiable today: Ai (艾), Shi (石), Gao (高), Gan (甘), Jin (金), Li (李), Zhang (張), and Zhao (趙).\nTwo of these, Jin and Shi, are the equivalent of common Jewish names in the west: Gold and Stone.\n\nThe first modern Western record of Jews residing in China is found in the records of the 17th-century Jesuit missionaries in Beijing. The prominent Jesuit Matteo Ricci, received a visit from a young Jewish Chinese man in 1605. Ricci mentioned this man's name as Ngai, who has since been identified by the French sinologist Paul Pelliot as a Jew named Ai T'ien, who explained that the community he belonged to was monotheistic, or believing in only one God. It is recorded that when he saw a Christian image of Mary with the child Jesus, he took it to be a picture of Rebecca with Esau or Jacob, figures from Hebrew Scripture. Ngai (Ai Tian, Ai T'ien) declared that he had come from Kaifeng, and stated that this was the site of a large Jewish population. Ricci sent an ethnic Chinese Jesuit Lay Brother to visit Kaifeng; later, other Jesuits (mostly European) also visited the city. It was later discovered that the Jewish community had a synagogue (\"Libai si\"), which was constructed facing the west, and housed a number of written materials and books.\n\nThe Jews who managed the synagogue were called \"Mullahs\". Floods and fire repeatedly destroyed the books of the Kaifeng synagogue, they obtained some from Ningxia and Ningbo to replace them, another Hebrew roll of law was bought from a Muslim in Ning-keang-chow in Shen-se (Shanxi), who acquired it from a dying Jew at Canton.\n\nThe Chinese called Muslims, Jews, and Christians in ancient times by the same name, \"Hui Hui\" (Hwuy-hwuy). Crossworshipers (Christians) were called \"Hwuy who abstain from animals without the cloven foot\", Muslims were called \"Hwuy who abstain from pork\", Jews were called \"Hwuy who extract the sinews (removes the sciatic nerve)\". Hwuy-tsze (Hui zi) or Hwuy-hwuy (Hui Hui) is presently used almost exclusively for Muslims, but Jews were still called Lan Maou Hwuy tsze (Lan mao Hui zi) which means \"Blue cap Hui zi\". At Kaifeng, Jews were called \"Teaou kin keaou \"extract sinew religion\". Jews and Muslims in China shared the same name for synagogue and mosque, which were both called \"Tsing-chin sze\" (Qingzhen si) \"Temple of Purity and Truth\", the name dated to the 13th century. The synagogue and mosques were also known as Le-pae sze (Libai si). A tablet indicated that Judaism was once known as \"Yih-tsze-lo-nee-keaou\" (israelitish religion) and synagogues known as Yih-tsze lo nee leen (Israelitish Temple), but it faded out of use.\n\nA Muslim in Nanjing told Semedo that four families of Jews converted to Islam since they were the last Jews in Nanjing, their numbers diminishing.\n\nVarious Jewish Chinese individuals worked in government service and owned big properties in China in the 17th century.\n\nDuring the Taiping rebellion of the 1850s, the Jews of Kaifeng apparently suffered a great deal and were dispersed. Following this dislocation, they returned to Kaifeng, yet continued to be small in number and to face hardships, as is recorded in the early 20th century.\n\nShanghai's first wave of Jews came in the second half of the 19th century, many being Mizrahi Jews from Iraq. The first Jew who arrived there was Elias David Sassoon, who, about the year 1850, opened a branch in connection with his father's Bombay house. Since that period Jews gradually migrated from India to Shanghai, most of them being engaged from Bombay as clerks by the firm of David Sassoon & Co. The community was composed mainly of \"Asian,\" (Sephardi) German, and Russian Jews, though there were a few of Austrian, French, and Italian origin among them. Jews took a considerable part in developing trade in China, and several served on the municipal councils, among them being Silas Aaron Hardoon, partner in the firm of E. D. Sassoon & Co., who served on the French and English councils at the same time. During the early days of Jewish settlement in Shanghai Jews were involved in the trade in opium and Bombay cotton yarn.\n\nContemporaneous sources estimated the Jewish population in China in 1940 — including Manchukuo — at 36,000 (source: Catholic Encyclopedia).\n\nJewish life in Shanghai had really taken off with the arrival of the British. Mizrahi Jews from the Middle East came as traders via India and Hong Kong and established some of the leading trading companies in the second half of the 19th century. Later, after World War I, many Ashkenazi Jews came from Europe. Rebbe Meir Ashkenazi (Chabad-Lubavitch) was the Chief Rabbi of Shanghai (1926–1949).\n\nAt the early 20th century many Russian Jews fleeing pogroms in several towns in Russian Empire decided to move to northeast China for permanent settlement (Rabbi Aharon Moshe Kiselev served in Harbin from 1913 until his death in 1949). After the Russian Revolution of 1917, many White Russians, fled to Harbin (former Manchuria). These included, among others, Dr. Abraham Kaufman, who played a leading role in the Harbin Jewish community after 1919, the parents of future Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, and Teodor Parnicki at the age of 12. According to estimates, over 20,000 Jews lived in Harbin and played a key role in the shaping of local politics, economy and international trade.\n\nDr. Sun Yat-sen, founder of the Republic of China, held admiration for the Jewish people and Zionism, and he also saw parallels between the persecution of Jews and the domination of China by the Western powers. He stated, \"Though their country was destroyed, the Jewish nation has existed to this day... [Zionism] is one of the greatest movements of the present time. All lovers of\ndemocracy cannot help but support wholeheartedly and welcome with enthusiasm the movement to restore your wonderful and historic nation, which has contributed so much to the civilization of the world and which rightfully deserve [sic] an honorable place in the family of nations.\"\n\nThe Japanese occupation of Northeast China in 1931 and the establishment of Manchukuo in 1932 had a negative impact on the Harbin Jewish community (13,000 in 1929). Most of those Jews left Harbin for Tianjin, Shanghai, and the British Mandate of Palestine. Until 1939, the Russian Jews were about 5,000 in Shanghai.\n\nAnother wave of 18,000 Jews from Germany, Austria, and Poland immigrated to Shanghai in the late 1930s and early 1940s. Shanghai was an open city at the time and it did not have restrictions on immigration, and some Chinese diplomats such as Ho Feng Shan issued \"protective\" passports and the Japanese diplomat Chiune Sugihara issued transit visas with which refugees could go to Shanghai after a short stay in Japan. In 1943, the occupying Japanese army required these 18,000 Jews, formally known as \"stateless refugees,\" to relocate to an area of in Shanghai's Hongkew district (today known as the Hongkou District) where many lived in group homes called \"Heime\". The total number of Jews who entered Shanghai during this period equaled the total number of Jews who fled to Australia, Canada, India, New Zealand and South Africa combined. Many of the Jews in China later moved to found the modern state of Israel.\n\nShanghai was an important safe-haven for Jewish refugees during the Holocaust, since it was one of the few places in the world where one didn't need a visa. However, it was not easy to get there. The Japanese, who controlled the city, preferred to look the other way. However,some corrupt officials also exploited the plight of the Jews. By 1941, nearly 20,000 European Jews had found shelter there.\nNotable Jews during the Second Sino-Japanese War include Dr. Jakob Rosenfeld, Stanisław Flato, Ruth Weiss, Eva Sandberg (photographer and wife of Communist leader Xiao San), and Morris Abraham Cohen.\n\nLate in the war, Nazi representatives pressured the Japanese army to devise a plan to exterminate Shanghai's Jewish population, and this pressure eventually became known to the Jewish community's leadership. However, the Japanese had no intention of further provoking the anger of the Allies after their already notorious invasion of China and their additional invasion of a number of other Asian nations, so they delayed the German request until the War ended. With the intercession of the Amshenower Rebbe and the translation skills of Leo (Ariyeh) Hanin, the Japanese ultimately kept the Jews of Shanghai safe.\n\nIn general, in the period from 1845 to 1945, more than 40,000 Jews came to China to do business or in search of a safe haven.\n\nAfter World War II and the establishment of the PRC in 1949, most of these Jews emigrated to Israel or the West, although a few remained. Three prominent non-Chinese lived in China from the establishment of the People's Republic of China to the contemporary period: Sidney Shapiro, Israel Epstein, and Ruth Weiss, two American emigres and one Austrian emigre, are of Jewish descent. Another Jewish-American, Sidney Rittenberg served as interpreter to many top Chinese officials.\n\nStructured Jewish life returned to Beijing in 1979 with the founding of Kehillat Beijing, an egalitarian lay-led community serving ex-patriate Jews from all over the world.\n\nSara Imas, the Shanghai-born daughter of Shanghai's Jewish Club president, Leiwi Imas, became the first Chinese Jewish immigrant to Israel after the two countries established formal diplomatic relations in 1992. Leiwi Imas, who had to leave Germany for Poland in 1939, arrived in Shanghai the same year. He spent his final years in Shanghai until 1962, prior to the beginning of the Cultural Revolution. Although Sara Imas's non-Chinese appearance and family background brought her much trouble during the Cultural Revolution when she was accused of being a foreign capitalist and spy, today Sara Imas has returned to Shanghai, working as the Chinese representative of an Israeli diamond company.\n\nThe Institute of Jewish Studies was established at Nanjing University in 1992.\n\nSince the 1990s, the Shanghai municipal government has taken the initiative to preserve historical Western architectures that were constructed during Shanghai's colonial past. Many formerly Jewish-owned hotels and private residence have been included in the preservation project. In 1997, the Kadoorie-residence-turned Shanghai Children's Palace, had their spacious front garden largely removed in order to make room for the city's overpass system under construction. A One Day Tour of the history of Jewish presence in Shanghai can be arranged through the Center of Jewish Studies Shanghai. Rabbi Shalom Greenberg from Chabad-Lubavitch in New York City arrived in Shanghai to serve this community in August 1998. Rabbi Arthur Schneier, president of the Appeal of Conscience Foundation of New York, donated a Torah to the community that same year. On the first day of Rosh Hashanah, in September 1999, a Jewish New Year service was held at the Ohel Rachel Synagogue for first time since 1952.\n\n21st-century China's friendly embrace of the Jewish people on its soil has been one of affectionate sympathy as the modern Han Chinese have developed a favorable view of Jews, admiring them for their contributions to humanity, their ability to survive, the sharing of Chinese values such as family, frugality, hard work and education, and being products of ancient civilizations have been an impetus towards the long and enduring friendship between the Chinese and Jewish peoples. Shared affinities and similar cultural commonalities has not only been an impetus for the close bonds between China and Israel but has also created a symbol of brotherhood between the two communities in the modern era.\n\nIn modern times, relations between the Han Chinese and Jewish communities have been mutually close and friendly. Chinese Jews have been a major impetus in maintaining the strong nexus between the Chinese and Jewish civilizations. With shared common cultural similarities between the two peoples resulted Jews enjoying equal rights and coexisting peacefully alongside the mainstream Han Chinese populace with instances of Jews assimilating into the Han Chinese community through intermarriage. Contemporary Chinese Jews remain a small minority in 21st-century China, but unlike many parts of the world, Jews have historically lived in China without any instances of antisemitism from the local Han majority populace. Much of the highly educated Chinese populace favorably view Jews with high esteem and have exhibited philo-Semitic tendencies admiring and respecting the Jewish people contrasting the negatively stereotyped qualities frequently found in Western anti-Semitic literature. Philo-semitic stereotypes held by the Chinese include the disproportionate amount of Jewish contributions to humanity, particularly the disproportionate number of Jewish Nobel prize winners in science and technology, and their link to Jewish modernization as well as the amount of \"Jewish power” that permeates in many fields of endeavor, particularly in politics and the influence of the Israel lobby in the United States. The Chinese also have a positive stereotype that Jews are clever, clannish, business savvy, and financially affluent. Other stereotypes held in a positive light that modern Chinese have of the Jews include the Jews alleged dominance of business, the Federal Reserve, banks, global stock exchanges, and the world economy at large. A pro-Jewish outlook has been observed among China's urban populace due to many shared similarities between Chinese and Jewish cultures. The similarity between the Chinese and Jewish cultures lie deeply rooted in the Chinese Confucian doctrine embedded with cultural values such as the importance of a strong and stable family structure, dedication towards excellence, ethic of financial frugality, looking towards the future, hard work for the common good of society, reverence for intelligence, education, scholarship and learning, and a high respect for money and business acumen bear great affinities with the values and virtues of traditional Jewish orthodoxy. Many contemporary Chinese are knowledgeable of the Jewish experiences in China who have exhibited pride of their country’s role in safeguarding Jewish refugees from Nazism during the Second World War. These affectionately sympathetic attitudes arose largely due to the country's urban populace's proclivity towards philo-semitism and an admiration of Jewish business acumen, investment savvy and financial shrewdness. The Chinese cultural notions toward money and wealth are similar to those of the Jews as both the Chinese and Jews view the acquisition and the building of wealth as a virtue. Both cultures place a huge premium on the celebration of great wealth, riches, and financial success. Since the economic liberalization of the country and in the wake of rapid economic growth, many Chinese have become intrigued with the question of achieving great wealth, finding a good job, employment success, marriage, retirement and other modern endeavors. A myriad of Jewish self-help and personal finance books on wealth building, entrepreneurship, investing, business success and succeeding financially can be found on every major Chinese city street bookstall. In addition, Jewish seminars on wealth building and business success are held in five and four-star hotels across big cities in China. In particular, self-help business books on Jews and their purported connection to success in business are often best-sellers in China.\n\nSynagogues are found in Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong, serving both native Chinese Jews, Israelis and diaspora Jewish communities across the world. In 2001, Rabbi Shimon Freundlich from the Chabad-Lubavitch movement came and settled in Beijing with the mission of building and leading the center of Chabad-Lubavitch of Beijing, an Orthodox congregation. Kehillat Beijing continues its practice of conducting weekly lay-led Shabbat services, regular holiday observance, and community activities including retreats and celebrations.\n\nIn 2005, the Israeli embassy to China held their Hanukkah celebrations at the Great Wall of China.\n\nIn 2007, the Sephardic community of Shanghai opened a synagogue, study hall, kosher kitchen, and educational classes for children and adults. The community has its own Hacham, who functions as a teacher and chazan, in addition to Rabbi Ephraim Bezalel, who manages local community affairs and kashrut needs.\n\nAs of 2010, it is estimated that 2,000 to 3,000 Jews lived in Shanghai. In May 2010, the Ohel Rachel Synagogue in Shanghai was temporarily reopened to the local Jewish community for weekend services.\n\nSince a significant amount of Chinese food products and food ingredients are exported to the American market, a number of kosher certification agencies send rabbis to China to serve as kosher inspectors (mashgichim). As of 2009, over 50 mashgichim have been stationed in China, 7 of them from the Orthodox Union.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20887130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20887130", "title": "Huehuetl", "text": "Huehuetl\n\nThe huēhuētl is a percussion instrument from Mexico, used by the Aztecs and other cultures. It is an upright tubular drum made from a wooden body opened at the bottom that stands on three legs cut from its base, with skin stretched over the top. It can be beaten by hand or wood mallet.\n\nThis ancient percussion instrument originated from Mesoamerica and was often used by the Aztecs and Tarascan. The huehuetl were used during festivals such as warrior gatherings. The drum itself is made from hollowed tree trunks and thus, came in different sizes. Carvings of animals, faces or warriors were also often carved into the base of the drum. The skin used for the top of the drum was mainly from ocelots. Currently, there are still groups of musicians who use huehuetls to perform Aztec music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31919792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31919792", "title": "Hungarians of Croatia", "text": "Hungarians of Croatia\n\nHungarians of Croatia are a recognized ethnic minority. According to the 2011 census there are 14,048 people of Hungarian ethnicity living in Croatia (or 0.33% of total population). Around two thirds of them (8,249) live in Osijek-Baranja County in eastern Croatia, especially in the Croatian part of the Baranya region which borders Hungary to the north. There are also small Hungarian communities in other parts of the country, including areas in Bjelovar-Bilogora County in central Croatia where 881 people identify themselves as Hungarian.\n\nHungary and Croatia have a long history dating back to the dynastic crises that followed the death of king Dmitar Zvonimir in 1089. His widow Helen II supported her brother Ladislaus I of Hungary in his claim for the kingdom of Croatia amidst the political turmoil. Two years later, Ladislaus managed to seize power and proclaim his sovereignty over the Croatian kingdom, however, he and his armies were still unable to gain full control by the time of his death in 1095. It was his nephew Coloman I who finally defeated the last native Croatian king Peter II of Croatia at the Battle of Gvozd Mountain, and was then crowned as King of Croatia in capital city of Biograd on the Adriatic Sea in 1102. \n\nAfter the Hungarian victory, Croatia and Hungary entered into a personal union in which certain terms were agreed on. The most significant were that two would remain under Hungarian rule while some separate Croatian institutions were maintained such as the Sabor (Croatian parliament), the ban (viceroy), and retention of Croatian lands and titles. The union lasted until 1918; in that time, many Hungarian military personnel settled in Croatia during the Ottoman invasion, and the borderlands of Hungary and Croatia proper blurred with the ethnic mix.\n\nMunicipalities with significant Hungarian minority (10 percent or more) include:\nThe largest town with a significant Hungarian population is Beli Manastir, with 801 Hungarians (7.96%). \n\nIn addition, 10,231 people identified Hungarian language as their mother tongue.\n\n, Hungarian is officially used in two municipalities and four other settlements in Croatia, according to the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.\n\nThe two main Hungarian associations in Croatia are the Democratic Union of Hungarians of Croatia ( or HMDK) and the Union of Hungarian Associations ( or MESZ).\n\nHungarians are officially recognized as an autochthonous national minority, and as such, they elect a special representative to the Croatian Parliament.\n\nIn the Croatian parliamentary election, 2007, MESZ member Deneš Šoja was elected as their representative.\n\nSince 1999, the Hungarian Cultural Society Népkör have organized the \"Hungarian Days\" festival in Osijek. In 2000 various Hungarian cultural groups have organised Hungarian music and singing festivals.\n\nThe Educational and Cultural Center of Hungarians in Croatia is located in Osijek. In Beli Manastir, the town's public library hosts the Central Library of Hungarians in Croatia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56620192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56620192", "title": "Hurufiyya movement", "text": "Hurufiyya movement\n\nThe Hurufiyya movement ( \"hurufiyya\", adjective form \"hurufi\" literal meaning \"letters\" [of the alphabet]) was an aesthetic movement that emerged in the late twentieth century amongst Arabian and North African artists, who used their understanding of traditional Islamic calligraphy, within the precepts of modern art. By combining tradition and modernity, these artists worked towards developing a Pan-Arab visual language, which instilled a sense of national identity in their respective nation states, at a time when many of these states where shaking off colonial rule and asserting their independence. They adopted the same name as the Hurufi, an approach of Sufism which emerged in the late 14th–early 15th century. Art historian, Dagher, has described hurufiyya as the most important movement to emerge in the Arab art world in the 20th-century. \n\nThe term, \"hurifiyya\" is derived from the Arabic term, \"harf\" which means letter (as in a letter of the alphabet). When the term is used to describe an contemporary art movement, it explicitly references a Medieval system of teaching involving political theology and lettrism. In this theology, letters were seen as primordial signifiers and manipulators of the cosmos. Thus, the term is charged with Sufi intellectual and esoteric meaning. \n\nThe hurufiyya art movement (also known as the \"Al-hurufiyyah movement\" or the \"Letrism movement\") refers to the use of calligraphy as a graphic element within an artwork, typically an abstract work. The pan-Arab hurufiyya art movement is distinct from the Letterist International which had an Algerian section founded in Chlef in 1953 by Hadj Mohamed Dahou. \n\nThe term, \"hurufiyya\" has become somewhat controversial and has been rejected by a number of scholars, including Wijdan Ali, Nada Shabout and Karen Dabrowska. An alternative term, \"al-Madrassa al-Khattiya Fil-Fann\" [Calligraphic School of Art] has been proposed to describe the experimental use of calligraphy in modern Arabic art.\n\nTraditional hurufi art was bound by strict rules, which amongst other things, confined calligraphy to devotional works and prohibited the representation of humans in manuscripts. Practising calligraphers trained with a master for many years in order to learn both the technique and the rules governing calligraphy. Contemporary hurufiyya artists broke free from these rules, allowing Arabic letters to be deconstructed, altered and included in abstract artworks. \n\nThe use of traditional Arabic elements, notably, calligraphy, in modern art arose independently in various Islamic states; few of these artists working in this area, had knowledge of each other, allowing for different manifestations of hurufiyya to develop in different regions. In Sudan, for instance, the movement was known as the \"Old Khartoum School\", and assumed a distinctive character in which both African motifs and calligraphy were combined, while media such as leather and wood replaced canvas to provide a distinct African style. In Morocco, the movement was accompanied by the replacement of traditional media for oils; artists favoured traditional dyes such as henna, and embraced weaving, jewellery and tattoo as well as including traditional Berber motifs. In Jordan, it was generally known as the \"al-hurufiyyah\" movement, while in Iran, the Saqqa-Khaneh movement.\n\nSome scholars have suggested that Madiha Omar, who was active in the US and Baghdad from the mid-1940s, was the pioneer of the movement, since she was the first to explore the use of Arabic script in a contemporary art context in the 1940s and exhibited hurufiyya-inspired works in Washington in 1949. However, other scholars have suggested that she was a \"precursor\" to Hurufiyya. Yet other scholars have suggested that the hurufiyya art movement probably began in North Africa, in the area around Sudan, with the work of Ibrahim el-Salahi, who initially explored Coptic manuscripts, a step that led him to experiment with Arabic calligraphy. It is clear that by the early 1950s, a number of artists in different countries were experimenting with works based on calligraphy, including the Iraqi painter and sculptor, Jamil Hamoudi who experimented with the graphic possibilities of using Arabic characters, as early as 1947; Iranian painters, Nasser Assar (b. 1928) () and Hossein Zenderoudi, who won a prize at the 1958 Paris Biennale. \nHurufiyya artists rejected Western art concepts, and instead grappled with a new artistic identity drawn from within their own culture and heritage. These artists successfully integrated Islamic visual traditions, especially calligraphy, into contemporary, indigenous compositions. The common theme amongst hurufiyya artists is that they all tapped into the beauty and mysticism of Arabic calligraphy, but used it in a modern, abstract sense. Although hurufiyya artists struggled to find their own individual dialogue with nationalism, they also worked towards a broader aesthetic that transcended national boundaries and represented an affiliation with an Arab identity in the post-colonial period.\n\nThe art historian, Christiane Treichl, explains how calligraphy is used in contemporary art: \n\nThe hurufiyya art movement was not confined to painters, but also included important ceramicists such as the Jordanian, Mahmoud Taha, who combined traditional aesthetics, including calligraphy, with skilled craftsmanship, and sculptors, such as the Qatari, Yousef Ahmad and the Iraqi sculptors, Jawad Saleem and Mohammed Ghani Hikmat. Nor, was the movement organised along formal lines across the Arab-speaking nations. In some Arab nations, hurufiyya artists formed formal groups or societies, such as Iraq's \"Al Bu'd al Wahad\" (or the One Dimension Group)\" which published a manifesto, while in other nations artists working independently in the same city had no knowledge of each other. \n\nArt historian, Dagher, has described hurufiyya as the most important movement to emerge in the Arab world in the 20th-century. However, the \"Cambridge Companion to Modern Arab Culture,\" while acknowledging its importance in terms of encouraging Arab nationalism, describes hurufiyya as neither \"a movement nor a school.\" \n\nArt historians have identified three generations of hurufiyya artists: \n\nHurufiyya art involved a very diverse range of \"explorations into the abstract, graphic, and aesthetic properties of Arabic letters.\" Art historians, including Wijdan Ali and Shirbil Daghir, have attempted to develop a way of classifying different types of hurufiyya art. Ali identifies the following, which she describes as \"schools\" within the \"movement\": \n\n\n\nIraqi painter, Madiha Omar, is recognised as a pioneer of the hurufiyaa art movement, having exhibited a number of hurufist-inspired works in Georgetown in Washington as early as 1949. and publishing \"Arabic Calligraphy: An Inspiring Element in Abstract Art\" in 1950. Jamil Hamoudi was also a pioneer, active from the 1950s. Both Omar and Hamoudi joined the One Dimension Group when it was founded by Shakir Hassan Al Said in 1971 since its principles were based on the importance of the Arabic letter. The artist and art historian, Princess Wijdan Ali, who developed the traditions of Arabic calligraphy in a modern, abstract format and is considered a pioneer of the movement in Jordan, has been able to bring hurufiyya to the attention of a broader audience through her writing and her work as a curator and patron of the arts. \n\nNotable exponents of hurufiyya art include: \n\nAlgeria\n\nEgypt\n\nIraq\n\nIran\n\nJordan\n\nLebanon\nMorocco\n\nPakistan\n\nPalestine\n\nSaudi Arabia\n\nSudan\n\nSyria\n\nTunisia\n\nUnited Arab Emirates\n\nIndividual hurufiyya artists began to stage exhibitions from the 1960s. In addition to solo exhibitions, several group exhibitions showcasing the variations in hurufiyya art, both geographically and temporally, have also been mounted by prestigious art museums. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38451608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38451608", "title": "Inforg", "text": "Inforg\n\nAn inforg is an informationally embodied organism, entity made up of information, that exists in the infosphere. These informationally embodied organisms are also called natural agents.\n\nInforgs was used by Luciano Floridi to describe what makes up an infosphere. The usage of the word describes organisms that are made up of information rather than \"standalone and unique entities\". This description of inforgs allows them to exist in the infosphere as natural agents alongside artificial agents. Inforgs can be part of a hybrid agent that is, for example, a family with digital devices such as digital cameras, cell phones, tablets, and laptops.\n\nNorbert Wiener describes organisms as entities defined by patterns of persisting Shannon information. Shannon information, named after Claude Shannon, places information in the physical realm allowing it to be manipulated by the laws of nature and science. Thus, inforgs are composed of matter, energy, and Shannon information. An experiment that supports inforgs and the component of Shannon information is the use of DNA as a medium for data storage. Encoding DNA, which is considered to be the building blocks of organisms, to hold binary information reinforces the idea that living organisms are \"persisting patterns of Shannon information encoded within an ever-changing flux of matter-energy\".\n\nThe Shannon information that is found within an inforg also contains the identity of said organism. For example, A human being's identity is not matter or energy but rather encoded by patterns of Shannon information within his/her body. While a person's body may change over time, his/her identity persists through time. The manipulation of Shannon information in an inforg is under what is called the metaphysical realm.\n\n"}
{"id": "58050956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58050956", "title": "Internet Wala Love", "text": "Internet Wala Love\n\nInternet Wala Love (previously known as E-Love) (: \"Internet Love\") is a Hindi television drama show which airs on Colors TV. The series is produced by Sunjoy Waddhwa under the banner of Sphere Origins. It stars Shivin Narang and Tunisha Sharma.\n\nThe show is about two individuals, Jai Mittal and Aadhya Verma, lives miles apart but are connected through social media. Jai is a radio jockey of Ishq FM and is a complete extrovert. On the other hand, Aadhya works as a script writer and a radio jockey of Ishq FM, but is an introvert who does not like socializing much. Their paths keep crossing as per their destiny and love blossoms between the two. Enter Samrat, Jai's cousin, genius, but sexually harasses girls. He falls for Aadhya, and creates rift between the two. Aadhya exposes Samrat's real face to the world with the help of technology, the ongoing Me Too Movement and with the support of the girls Samrat has previously harassed.\n\nJai's mom Roopa Mittal call-up Aishwarya, Jai's ex-girlfriend, Aadhya's college friend, just to separate him from Aadhya. Roopa gets to know Aadhya's feeling for Jai, and doesn't want it to happen, the marriage between the two. Samrat returns for revenge.\n\n\n\n\nThe show is produced by Sunjoy Waddhwa under the banner of Sphere Origins. The show was earlier named \"E-Love\" but later, the makers changed the title to \"Internet Wala Love\".\n\n\"Internet Wala Love\" is a rather new take on love and marriages today. Coming from the perspective of the youth, it focuses on the most important aspect for youngsters today– the internet. The show is a fresh take on love, relationships and marriages.\n"}
{"id": "2276607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276607", "title": "James Dunham", "text": "James Dunham\n\nJames C. Dunham, was a multiple murderer who, on the night of May 26, 1896, killed his wife, her family, and two of that family's servants in Campbell, California.\n\nUsing an axe and two revolvers, Dunham murdered:\n\n\nDunham's motives are unknown. The sole survivors were Dunham's and Hattie's 3-week-old son and a farmhand, George Schaible, who had hidden in the barn during the massacre. Although investigators conducted an extensive manhunt throughout Santa Clara County, California, Dunham was never found and the case remains officially open. Rumors persisted of his having escaped to Cuba.\n\n"}
{"id": "40130674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40130674", "title": "Kankō Ainu", "text": "Kankō Ainu\n\nThe practise has been criticised on multiple levels and protested by some Ainu advocates, including complaints that tourist Ainu sites do not represent genuine Ainu culture, but rather a stereotype of the Ainu from the wajin (majority Japanese) perspective. Other Ainu, however, are pleased to be able to make a living producing and selling traditional Ainu handicrafts, and performing Ainu dances for an audience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43002520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43002520", "title": "Kapitan Arab", "text": "Kapitan Arab\n\nKapitan Arab or Kapten Arab (Captain of the Arabs; ; ) or \"Head of The Arabs\" (; ) is a position in the colonial Dutch East Indies appointed with the task of leading the ethnic Arab-Indonesians, who usually lived in concentrated clearly defined-living areas (\"Kampung Arab\"). The role was to provide liaison between his community and the government, to provide statistical information to The Dutch East Indies government on issues related to Arabs, to disseminate government regulations and decrees, and to ensure the maintenance of law and order.\n\nIn Batavia, The Arabs, according to Van den Berg, settled in an area called Pekojan. \"Pekojan\" is from Indonesian word \"Pe-Koja-an\", which means \"The Koja\", a term for Muslim people of Gujarat, India. While \"Koja\" itself is from word Khoja. Until the end of the 18th century, the area was mostly dominated by Khoja Gujarati settlers until 19th century. When Van den Berg did the study (1884-1886), there were no more Gujarati. At that time the majority of the settlers were Arabs and a handful of Chinese. Since about the 1970s, the Arabs are the minority and the Chinese turned into majority. He described Pekojan as a slum and dirty area. Approximately one and half century ago, the Arabs also had moved and lived in the suburbs (now Central Jakarta), such as Krukut and Tanah Abang areas. \n\nThe Dutch East Indies colonial had a constitutional law recognized three categories of individuals in Batavia (and then later applied to other places): Europeans (dutch: \"Europeanen\"), Foreign Oriental (\"Vreemde Oosterlingen\"), and natives (\"Inlanders\"). As more and more immigrants immigrated from Hadramaut, The Dutch government started a law called \"wijkenstelsel\" in 1844 to segregate them from the rest of indigenous people. As result, the government required a head of the group, called \"Kapitan Arab,\" to be pointed from among the Arab community as a point of contact and liaison. The similar position was appointed for Kapitan Cina to Chinese. More than half of the Kapitan Arab appointed by the colonial government were non Sayyid people. This decision was made to undermine traditional Hadhrami assumption about their social status. The head sometimes is accompanied with an assistant called \"Luitenant van de Kapitein der Arabieren\" or simply \"Liutenant der Arabieren\".\n\nThe first \"Kapitein der Arabieren\" pointed by the Dutch East Indies government in Batavia was Said Naum during period of 1844-1864. He was succeeded by Muhammad bin Abubakar 'Aydid for period of 1864-1877. Among other Arabs who had the position in Batavia was Hasan Argoubi, Muhammad Umar Ba-Behir () and Umar bin Yusuf Mangus () during the period of 1902-1931.\n\nUmar Mangus was a rich merchant and had property business. For his service as the Kapitan Arab, Umar was awarded the title \"De Ridder in de Orde van Oranje-Nassau\" (Knight of The Order of Orange-Nassau). He was appointed on December 28, 1902 with Sheikh Ali bin Abdoellah bin Asir as his \"Liutenant der Arabieren\".\n\nBefore Umar Mangus was appointed as a Kapitan Arab, most Arabs had decided to choose Sharif Abdullah ibn Husein Alaydrus, a rich merchant, famous for his generosity and had good behavior as well as prominent among the Arabs and the Europeans. Many people think that with his close relationship with Europeans, he would be willing to accept the Arab captaincy. The colonial government constantly urged him to accept the position, but he firmly rejected it. He wasn't alone in refusing, as this refusal had the support of respected Arab elders.\n\nAccording to Snouck Hurgronje who observed in 1901, the Dutch colonial government had more difficulty appoint \"Kapitein der Arabieren\" as more and more indies-born Arabs (\"Muwallad\") born who lacked authority compared to the \"pure-blood\" Hadramis (\"Wulayti\") whose number diminished.\n\nIn Cirebon, there was an Arab Indonesian appointed as a captain in 1845. As in Batavia, the Arab village here was once the abode of the Gujarati or likely of the Bengali too. In 1872 the colony in Indramayu separated from Cirebon to appoint a captain (or head) of Arabs. In Banjarmasin in around 1899, the Kapitan Arab was Said Hasan bin Idroes al-Habshi or more known as \"Habib Ujung Murung\". The successor of Said Hasan as the \"Kapitein\" in South Kalimantan was Alwi bin Abdullah al-Habshi, who later moved to Barabai.\n\nSimilarly, in Tegal, Pekalongan, Semarang, Surabaya, Gresik, Pasuruan, Bangil, Lumajang, Besuki, Banyuwangi, Surakarta, Sumenep, and various places in the archipelago had their own Kapitan Arab. One of the reasons the colonial government did this was to segregate Arabs from the indigenous people. In Pekalongan, one of the Captains was Hasan Saleh Argubi. In Bangil, the Kapitan Arab were Saleh bin Muhammad bin Said Sabaja (1892), Muhammad bin Saleh Sabaja (1920), and Muhammad bin Salim Nabhan (1930). In Banyuwangi, some Kapitan Arab who were in positions, among others, was Datuk Sulaiman Bauzir, Datuk Dahnan, Habib Assegaf, and Ahmad Haddad. In Pasuruan, the Kapitein der Arabieren was a Sayyid named Alim al-Qadri, which is the grandfather of Hamid Algadri.\n\nIn Gresik, the Kapitan Arab in 1930's was Husein bin Muhammad Shahab while Kapitan Arab of Surabaya was Salim bin Awab bin Sungkar, who had large land () in the City Center of Surabaya, West Ketabang. \n\nAccording to two Baha'i travelers from Iran and India who visited Makasar in 1885, the Iranian Baha’i Sulayman Khan Tunukabanı, known as Jamal Effendi, and his Indian-Iraqi friend Sayyid Mustafa Rumı, the Kapitein der Arabieren in Makasar at the time was Said Ali Matard.\n\nIn Palembang, most of the Kapitein der Arabieren, if not all, lived in 13-Ulu subdistrict (\"Seberang Ulu or \"upstream bank\" of the Musi river). There is no known records of who was the first Captain, but the last one was Ahmad Al Munawar (d. 1970), better known as \"Ayip Kecik\" (\"Little Sayyid\") or \"Yipcik\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25349386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25349386", "title": "Kingdom of Ava", "text": "Kingdom of Ava\n\nThe Ava Kingdom (, ) was the dominant kingdom that ruled upper Burma (Myanmar) from 1364 to 1555. Founded in 1364, the kingdom was the successor state to the petty kingdoms of Myinsaing, Pinya and Sagaing that had ruled central Burma since the collapse of the Pagan Kingdom in the late 13th century.\n\nLike the small kingdoms that preceded it, Ava was led by Bamarised Shan kings who claimed descent from the kings of Pagan.\n\nThe kingdom was founded by Thado Minbya in 1364 following the collapse of the Sagaing and Pinya Kingdoms due to raids by the Shan States to the north. In its first years of existence, Ava, which viewed itself as the rightful successor to the Pagan Kingdom, tried to reassemble the former empire by waging constant wars against the Mon Hanthawaddy Kingdom in the south, the Shan States in the north and east, and Rakhine State in the west.\n\nWhile it was able to hold Taungoo and some peripheral Shan States (Kalaymyo, Mohnyin, Mogaung and Hsipaw) within its fold at the peak of its power, Ava failed to reconquer the rest. The Forty Years' War (1385–1424) with Hanthawaddy left Ava exhausted. From the 1420s to early 1480s, Ava regularly faced rebellions in its vassal regions whenever a new king came to power. In the 1480s and 1490s, the Prome Kingdom in the south and the Shan states under Ava sway in the north broke away, and Taungoo became as powerful as its nominal overlord Ava. In 1510, Taungoo also broke away.\n\nAva was under intensified Shan raids for the first quarter of the 16th century. In 1527, the Confederation of Shan States, led by the state of Mohnyin in alliance with Prome, sacked Ava. The Confederation placed nominal kings on the Ava throne and ruled much of Upper Burma. As Prome was in alliance with the Confederation, only the tiny Taungoo in the southeastern corner, east of the Bago Yoma mountain range remained as the last holdout of independent Bamar people.\n\nThe Confederation's failure to snuff out Taungoo proved costly. Surrounded by hostile kingdoms, Taungoo took the initiative to consolidate its position, and defeated a much stronger Hanthawaddy in 1534–1541. When Taungoo turned against Prome, the Shans belatedly sent in their armies. Taungoo took Prome in 1542 and Bagan, just below Ava, in 1544. In January 1555, King Bayinnaung of Taungoo conquered Ava, ending the city's role as the capital of Upper Burma for nearly two centuries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32003149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32003149", "title": "Kovsh", "text": "Kovsh\n\nThe Kovsh is a traditional drinking vessel or ladle from Russia. It was oval-shaped like a boat with a single handle and may be shaped like a water bird or a Norse longship. Originally the Kovsh made from wood and used to serve and drink mead, with specimens excavated from as early as the tenth century. Metal Kovsh began to appear around the 14th century, although it also continued to be carved out of wood and was frequently brightly painted in peasant motifs. By the 17th century, the Kovsh was often an ornament rather than a practical vessel, and in the 19th century it was elaborately cast in precious metals for presentation as an official gift of the tsarist government.\n\n"}
{"id": "38476745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38476745", "title": "Liabuku language", "text": "Liabuku language\n\nLiabuku is an Austronesian language of Buton Island, off the southeast coast of Sulawesi in Indonesia. Considered a dialect of Muna, it is more divergent than other Muna dialects.\n"}
{"id": "43845924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43845924", "title": "List of reportedly haunted locations in Colombia", "text": "List of reportedly haunted locations in Colombia\n\nThere are numerous reportedly haunted places in Colombia. This list is alphabetized by province or territory of these places and then alphabetically within each province or territory.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "209811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209811", "title": "Looting", "text": "Looting\n\nLooting, also referred to as sacking, ransacking, plundering, despoiling, despoliation, and pillaging, is the indiscriminate taking of goods by force as part of a military or political victory, or during a catastrophe, such as war, natural disaster (where law and civil enforcement are temporarily ineffective), or rioting. The term is also used in a broader sense to describe egregious instances of theft and embezzlement, such as the \"plundering\" of private or public assets by governments. \n\nThe proceeds of all these activities can be described as booty, loot, plunder, spoils, or pillage.\nIn armed conflict, pillage is prohibited by international law, and constitutes a war crime.\n\nLooting by a victorious army during war has been common practice throughout recorded history. For foot soldiers, it was viewed as a way to supplement their often meagre income and was part of the celebration of victory. On higher levels, the proud exhibition of loot was an integral part of the typical Roman triumph, and Genghis Khan was not unusual in proclaiming that the greatest happiness was \"to vanquish your enemies ... to rob them of their wealth\".\n\nIn warfare in ancient times, the spoils of war included the defeated populations, which were often enslaved. The women and children were often absorbed into the victorious country's population. In other pre-modern societies, objects made of precious metals were the preferred target of war looting, largely because of their easy portability. In many cases looting was an opportunity to obtain treasures that otherwise would not have been obtainable. Since the 18th century, works of art have increasingly become a popular target. In the 1930s and even more so during World War II, Nazi Germany engaged in large scale and organized looting of art and property.\n\nLooting, combined with poor military discipline, has occasionally been an army's downfall. In other cases, for example the Wahhabi sack of Karbala, loot has financed further victories. Not all looters in wartime are conquerors; the looting of Vistula Land by its retreating defenders in 1915 was among the factors sapping the loyalty of Poland in World War I. Local civilians can also take advantage of a breakdown of order to loot public and private property, such as took place at the National Museum of Iraq in the course of the Iraq War in 2003. Tolstoy's novel \"War and Peace\" describes widespread looting by Moscow's citizens before Napoleon's troops enter the city, and by French troops elsewhere.\n\nIn armed conflict, pillage is prohibited by both customary international law and by treaty. The prohibition against pillage was recognized in the Lieber Code, Brussels Declaration (1874), and Oxford Manual. The Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 (modified in 1954) obliges military forces not only to avoid destruction of enemy property, but to provide protection to it. Article 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court provides that in international warfare, the \"pillaging a town or place, even when taken by assault,\" is a war crime. In the aftermath of World War II, a number of war criminals were prosecuted for pillage. Several people have been prosecuted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia for pillage.\n\nThe Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 explicitly prohibits the looting of civilian property during wartime. \n\nTheoretically, to prevent such looting, unclaimed property is moved to the custody of the Custodian of Enemy Property, to be handled until being returned to its owner.\n\nThe term \"looting\" is also sometimes used to refer to antiquities being removed from countries by unauthorized people, either domestic people breaking the law seeking monetary gain, or by foreign nations, which are usually more interested in prestige or previously, \"scientific discovery\". An example of this might be the removal of the contents of Egyptian tombs which were transported to museums in Europe. Other examples include the obelisks of Pharaoh Amenhotep II, in the (Oriental Museum, University of Durham, United Kingdom), Pharaoh Ptolemy IX, (Philae Obelisk, in Wimborne, Dorset, United Kingdom). Whether this constitutes \"looting\" is a debated point, with other parties pointing out that the Europeans were usually given permission of some sort, and that many of the treasures wouldn't have been discovered at all if the Europeans hadn't funded and organized the expeditions or digs that located them. Many of these antiquities have already been returned to their country of origin voluntarily.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Second World War, Soviet forces systematically plundered the Soviet occupation zone of Germany, including the Recovered Territories which were to be transferred to Poland. They sent valuable industrial equipment, infrastructure and whole factories to the Soviet Union.\n\nDuring a disaster, police and military are sometimes unable to prevent looting when they are overwhelmed by humanitarian or combat concerns, or cannot be summoned due to damaged communications infrastructure. Especially during natural disasters, some people find themselves forced to take what is not theirs in order to survive. How to respond to this, and where the line between unnecessary \"looting\" and necessary \"scavenging\" lies, is often a dilemma for governments. In other cases, looting may be tolerated or even encouraged by governments for political or other reasons.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56436267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56436267", "title": "Marilyn Hartman", "text": "Marilyn Hartman\n\nMarilyn Hartman (b. 1951–52), known as the \"Serial Stowaway,\" is an American woman known for stowing away on more than 20 commercial airline flights since 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "56557753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56557753", "title": "Maurice George Bisset", "text": "Maurice George Bisset\n\nMaurice George Bisset (1757–1821) is famous for his involvement in the highly scandalous court case in Britain involving Seymour Dorothy Fleming and Sir Richard Worsley, 7th Baronet. He had an affair with Seymour Worsley during her marriage to Richard, and they had a child together (Jane Seymour Worsley), whom Richard claimed to be his own to avoid scandal.\n\nMaurice George Bisset was born in 1757 to Rev. Alexander Bisset. He was a captain in the South Hampshire militia. Bisset had been Worsley's close friend and neighbour at Knighton Gorges on the Isle of Wight. He fathered a child by Seymour in August 1781, and in November 1781 they ran away together so Seymour could escape her failing marriage with Richard. However, they were discovered. In February 1782, Worsley brought a criminal conversation case for £20,000 (2015: £) against Bisset. Seymour was rumoured to have 27 lovers, and turned to case against Richard was it was made obvious he consented and even encouraged the relationship between Bisset and Seymour. This testimony destroyed Worsley's suit and the jury awarded him only one shilling (2015: £) in damages.\n\nHowever, Seymour could not get a divorce from Richard, only a separation, meaning she could not remarry until he died. Because of this, Bisset eventually left Seymour, and went on to marry Harriat Mordaunt in 1787. They had at least two children together, including a daughter named Jane Harriot Fenwick. He died in 1821, aged around 64.\n\n"}
{"id": "35103794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35103794", "title": "North African Arabs", "text": "North African Arabs\n\nNorth African Arabs ( \"‘Arab Shamal Ifriqiya\") or \"Maghrebi Arabs\" ( \"al-‘Arab al-Maghariba\") are the inhabitants of the North African Maghreb region whose native language is a dialect of Arabic and identify as Arab. This ethnic identity is a product of the Arab conquest of North Africa during the Arab–Byzantine wars and the spread of Islam to Africa. The migration of Arab tribes to North Africa in the 11th century was a major factor in the linguistic and cultural Arabization of the Maghreb region, mainly Beni Hassan, Banu Hilal and Banu Sulaym. \n\nThe descendants of the original Arab settlers who continue to speak Arabic as a first language currently form the single largest population group in North Africa.\n\nThe Alaouite dynasty (, Sulālat al-ʿAlawiyyīn al-Fīlālīyn) is the current royal family of Morocco. The name comes from ‘Alī ibn Abī Ṭālib, whose descendant, Sharif ibn Ali, became prince of Tafilalt in 1631. His son Mulay Al-Rashid (1664–1672) is credited with uniting and pacifying the country during a turbulent period of Moroccan history. The Alaouite family claim descent from the Islamic prophet Muhammad through his daughter Fāṭimah az-Zahrah and her husband ‘Alī ibn Abī Ṭālib.\n\nMoroccan women traditionally wear copious amounts of jewelry on their neck, arms, head and ears. Preferably the jewelry should be made from pure gold as this signifies that the family is economically well-off. The jewelry tends to be decorated with different jewels like rubies, olivines, Andalucian beads, pearls and diamonds. The olivines and the pearls are traditionally used in most Maghrebi jewelry. The olivine represents female beauty, and was historically associated with the pre-Islamic goddesses of the Arabian pantheon. The pearls used in the jewelry represent wealth and fortune.\n\nBrides in Morocco adorn themselves in extensive amounts of jewelry, the amount of jewelry depends on the economic status of the family. Different regions in Morocco have different types of traditional jewelry. Brides in the region of Tanger-Tetouan add pearls to their traditional jewelry, whereas brides in the region of Fes add pheridot jewels and gold. In the Sahara, gold and coloured beads are added to the outfit. Families that can't afford to buy jewelry rent it for the occasion.\n\nThe headdresses used in the ceremony also tend to differ depending on the region. The northern region of Morocco, (Tanger-Tetouan), use a striped and glittery fabric to cover the bride's head. A headpiece in either silver or gold (depending on the region) is placed over the fabrics and is sometimes decorated with jewels. In the central region, Fes-Meknes, a decorated dark green and golden fabric is used, over it a golden headpiece is placed, decorated with dark green pheridot jewels and pearls hanging down over the face. In the southern region, Western Sahara, the women wear a headpiece decorated with gold pieces and coloured beads that differ from tribe to tribe. The bride's head is covered with a black fabric.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistorical governors\n\nRulers\n\nHistorians\n\n\nMusicians\n\n"}
{"id": "16130497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16130497", "title": "Population without double counting", "text": "Population without double counting\n\nPopulation without double counting is an English translation of the French phrase \"Population sans doubles comptes\".\n\nIn France, for the purposes of the census, the INSEE has defined several population indicators that allow people who live in more than one place to be counted in each place, to study and keep count of population movement. So each commune in France does not have only one figure for the population, but several; for example students may be counted both where they study and where they live when not studying. A parallel may be drawn to English laws that allow students to register and vote in local elections in more than one place.\n\nThe population figures of France depend on the definition of \"French\". INSEE, the French national statistics bureau has two definitions:\n\nThe figures given by INSEE for a particular commune are :\n\nThe \"population sans doubles comptes\" is therefore always no smaller than the \"population municipale\" and no larger than the \"population totale\". \n\nTo evaluate the population properly, one should use the \"population sans doubles comptes\".\n\nSince 1999, places with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants have had a census every five years, with one-fifth of the places each year being subject to census.\n\nSince 2004, places with 10,000 inhabitants or more have an annual census of a sample 8% of the population. This is carried out in January and February. A census collector leaves a questionnaire and collects it at a later date. Since this time, \"population municipale\" and \"population sans doubles comptes\" have had the same meaning.\n\nCensus results are official by law.\n\nThe population totale is used when applying rules and regulations to budget and finance, in particular in section R2151-2 of the Code of Territorial Collectives.\nBut the population municipale determines the size of a council and the scrutiny of municipal elections, R2151-3.\n\n"}
{"id": "11958628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11958628", "title": "Pratibha Mahila Sahakari Bank", "text": "Pratibha Mahila Sahakari Bank\n\nPratibha Mahila Sahakari Bank (Pratibha Women Cooperative Bank) was a cooperative bank based in Jalgaon, Maharashtra, India. It was founded in 1973 by Pratibha Patil, who later became President of India, with the objective of empowering women.\n\nPatil was a chairperson of the bank and also one of its directors, along with many of her relatives. She is one of 34 respondents in an ongoing case before the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court regarding alleged mismanagement of the bank and misappropriation of funds.\n\nThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) revoked the licence of the bank in 2003 after it was found out that the bank had engaged in various irregularities, including illegally waiving interest on loans given to many of Patil's family members.\n\nThe bank was declared \"weak\" by the RBI in 1995. An inquiry under the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act was ordered in July 2001 and reported that the bank had incurred losses of Rs 1.35 crore. This led to the resignations of the chairperson and eight directors. In April 2002, the Ministry of Finance asked the RBI to inquire into allegations of fund irregularities after receiving a number of complaints from the Cooperative Bank Employees Union and small depositors of the bank.\n\nIn February 2003, the RBI revoked the bank's licence due to concerns relating to serious financial irregularities. Among other points, the RBI noted that the bank's loan policy was suspect and that members of Patil's family, including brothers and nephews, had received favourable treatment regarding loans. Allegations listed by the RBI include a faulty loan policy of the bank and loan interest waivers given to Patil's relatives. It said that there was no-one on the board with knowledge of either management generally or banking in particular. The RBI determined that six of the ten largest loan defaulters were connected to Patil's family, that the paid-up share capital was negative and that its gross non-performing assets amounted to Rs 391.20 lakh.\n\nMany depositors who had been attracted to the bank because of the involvement of Patil lost much of their savings, although the first Rs 1 lakh of their funds was protected by deposit insurance. At the time of Patil's nomination for the office of President of India, some of these people, who had still not received the balance of their deposits, alleged that the bank had become a \"family fiefdom\". Patil's spokespeople said that she had had no involvement in the granting of loans during her period as chairperson. They said that she had been chairperson for only slightly over a month and that the RBI report made no mention of her.\n\nA High Court writ petition, filed by the banks' depositors and former employees in 2007 at the time of Patil's nomination for president, alleged that the bank collected Rs 4,556 from its employees' wages for victims of the Kargil War but failed to deposit the amount in the national fund. Other claims included that Patil's brother, Dilip, had misused the bank's telephone service and the bank ignored its remit of primarily loaning to women in order to provide loans for Patils's male relatives. Spokespeople from Patil's political party, the Indian National Congress, denied any involvement by her in these matters, saying that the bank operated satisfactorily until 1993. Some local INC members in Jalgaon, however, disagreed with the official line, as did the employees' union. They claimed that Patil had facilitated unsecured loans to her family and arranged waivers of interest despite the poor financial state of the bank after 1995. In total, they said, the familial loans that were defaulted amounted to nearly Rs. 225 lakh.\n\nIn 2011, Rajesh Chakrabarti, a faculty member at the Indian School of Business, wrote that the irregularities at Pratibha Mahila Sahakari Bank, along with some other notable problems among Urban Co-operative Banks (UCBs), \"contributed significantly in eroding the brand value of UCBs\" in the early 2000s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12911561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12911561", "title": "Public private dialogue", "text": "Public private dialogue\n\nA public–private dialogue is a dialogue between the public sector and the private sector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6200084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6200084", "title": "Pular language", "text": "Pular language\n\nPular is a Fula language spoken primarily by the Fula people of Fouta Djallon, Guinea. It is also spoken in parts of Guinea-Bissau, Sierra Leone, and Senegal. There are a small number of speakers in Mali. Pular is spoken by 2.5 million Guineans, about 28% of the national population. This makes Pular the most widely spoken indigenous language in the country. Substantial numbers of Pular speakers have migrated to other countries in West Africa, notably Senegal.\n\nPular is not to be confused with Pulaar, another Fula language spoken natively in Guinea, Senegal, Mauritania, and western Mali (including the Futa Tooro region).\n\nPular is written in the Ajami script and the Latin script.\n\nThere are some particularities to this version of Fula, including:\n\nLike other varieties of the Fula language, Pular was written before colonization in an Arabic-based orthography called \"Ajami.\" Today, while Ajami remains prevalent in rural areas of Fouta Djallon, but Pular is mainly written in a Latin-based orthography, the so-called UNESCO orthography. Pular Latin orthography is basically the same as that used for Fula languages throughout West Africa.\n\nUp until the mid-1980s, Pular in Guinea was written with the Guinean languages alphabet that differed from that used in other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "32292539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32292539", "title": "Raghuvanshi", "text": "Raghuvanshi\n\nRaghuvanshi (or Raghuwanshi) is an Indian dynasty. Raghuvanshi is believed to be a lineage of kings tracing its ancestry to Surya. Raghuvanshi kings like Mandhata, Harishchandra, Sagara, Bhagiratha, Dilīpa, Raghu, Aja, Dasaratha and Rama.\n\nKalidasa's work, \"Raghuvansh\" narrates the epic of the Raghuvanshi in 19 sargas (cantos).\n\nSeveral legendary kings came from the Ikshvaku dynasty and after King Raghu, his descendants are known as Raghuvanshi.\n"}
{"id": "2693450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2693450", "title": "Shah dynasty", "text": "Shah dynasty\n\nShah dynasty () was the ruling Chaubise Thakuri dynasty from the Gorkha Kingdom from 1559 to 1768 and later the unified Kingdom of Nepal from 1768 to 28 May 2008. Shah dynasty traces their historical ancestor to King of Kaski, Kulamandan Khan, whose grandson Dravya Shah captured the throne of Gorkha from Khadka kings with the help of accomplices from six resident clans of Gorkha to become the King of Gorkha.\nThe Shah descendants claimed to be of Rajput origin. However, they are ranked as Thakuris.\n\nDravya Shah was the youngest son of Yasho Brahma Shah, Raja (King) of Lamjung and grandson of Kulamandan Khan, Raja (King) of Kaski. He became the king of Gorkha with the help of accomplices. He ascended the throne of Gorkha on 1559 A.D. 19th century writer Daniel Wright describes the coronation of Dravya Shah as:\nPreviously, the local Ghale people had chosen their king from the winners of an annual running race. Dravya Shah was not a physically robust man but he tricked his way to the win. He was backed by the Bhattarai, Aryal, Adhikari, Pant and Acharya clans who were Brahmin. By 1570, when Dravya Shah died, the running race was but a memory among the people. Dravya Shah used the army of the Magar (an ancient tribe of Nepal) to invade neighboring states and his successors continued this aggression to increase the territory belonging to Gorkha. \"Kaji\" Ganesh Pande was his first minister of Gorkha.\n\nIn 1743, Prithvi Narayan Shah became the ruler of Gorkha. He declared war with other principalities, defeating them one by one. In September 1768, he established the unified kingdom of Gorkha. He became the first king of large Gorkha Kingdom. He, his sons and their successors continued fighting and defeating other kingdoms and enlarging the kingdom of Gorkha. In 1814, the Anglo–Nepalese War between Gorkha and the East India Company began. By 1815, the Shah king had been thoroughly defeated. By 1816, Gorkha had lost one-third of its territory. The Shah kings continued to rule as an absolute monarch until 1946 when the political order changed from absolute monarchy to a constitutional monarchy.\n\nIn 1846, the Rana dynasty gained power in Nepal. The Ranas became prime ministers and reduced the King's status to a figurehead position. The Ranas ruled Nepal as hereditary prime ministers though in the name of the figurehead king. In 1950, the Shah king King Tribhuvan was forced into exile in India. He and his family, including the crown prince Mahendra, were saved. After India became a secular state in 1950, and the remaining rajas retired, Nepal was the only remaining Hindu kingdom. In 1951, with the help of India, a popular politician common man Matrika Prasad Koirala became the prime minister of Nepal. Tribhuvan returned to Kathmandu. The Shah dynasty regained control and the prime minister, Mohan Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana, resigned. King Tribhuvan ruled until 1955 and King Mahendra ruled until 1972. Mahendra's son, Birendra, became king.\n\nIn 1990, under King Birendra, Nepal became a constitutional monarchy. King Birendra believed in cooperation between the absolute power of the monarchy and democratic governance. His brother, Gyanendra and his wife Queen Aishwarya staunchly opposed this.\n\nOn 1 June 2001, a number of members of the Shah dynasty were murdered in the royal palace. A High Commission report concluded that the royal family was slaughtered by Crown Prince Dipendra. This remains controversial. Among the dead were the Crown Prince's father, King Birendra and his brother, Prince Nirajan. After the attack, Dipendra was in a coma and was declared king for a short time. He died a few days later. Gyanendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev, Dipendra's uncle, took the throne. In February 2005, he dismissed the parliament in order to govern in his own right.\n\nOn 24 December 2007, the Nepalese Constituent Assembly met. It was decided by majority vote that the monarchy would be abolished in 2008 after the Constituent Assembly elections. On 28 May 2008, the Assembly declared Nepal a Federal Democratic Republic and the monarchy was abolished, removing the Shah dynasty from power. Kul Bahadur Gurung said of the 601 member assembly, 560 voted in favour, 4 were against and 37 were absent or abstained. After this Assembly agreement involving the Nepali Congress, the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) and the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist), Gyanendra stepped down.\n\nGyanendra vacated his palace in Kathmandu which later became a museum. Until they could find permanent accommodation, the royal couple were offered residence as commoners at the Nagarjuna Palace, a former royal summer residence. The Nagarjuna palace lies in forested hills about eight kilometres (five miles) northwest of Kathmandu.\n\nThe following is list of all ten kings of Gorkha hill principality \n\nFamily tree of the all Shah kings of Nepal (not of previous Gorkha Kingdom) except Gyanendra Bir Bikram Shah, brother of King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1533185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533185", "title": "Siberian Tatars", "text": "Siberian Tatars\n\nSiberian Tatars (), the indigenous Turkic population of the forests and steppes of South Siberia, originate in areas stretching from somewhat east of the Ural Mountains to the Yenisei River in Russia. The Siberian Tatars call themselves \"Yerle Qalyq\" (\"older inhabitants\"), to distinguish themselves from more recent Volga Tatar immigrants to the region.\n\nThe word \"Tatar\" or \"Tadar\" is also used as a self-designation by some closely related Siberian ethnic groups, namely the Chulym, Shor, Teleut and Khakas peoples.\n\nThe 2002 census counted 500,000 Tatars in Siberia - only 9,611 of them indigenous Siberian Tatars. At least 400,000 are ethnic Volga Tatars, who settled in Siberia during periods of colonisation.\nThe Volga Tatars are an ethnic group indigenous to the Volga-Ural region of European Russia.\n\nSiberian Tatars historically lived in the vast territory stretching from around the Yenisei river all the way to the area lying somewhat east of the Ural mountains.\n\nAccording to the ambassadors of the Siberian Khanate ruler Yediger Khan, who visited Moscow in 1555, the population of \"the black people,\" not counting the aristocracy, was 30,700. In a decree concerning tribute issued by Ivan the Terrible, the population was given as 40,000.\n\nAccording to the results of the 1897 All-Russia Census, there were 56,957 Siberian Tatars in Tobolsk guberniya. This was the last accurate information about this population. In later censuses, Tatar immigrants from the other regions of Russia were also recorded under the classification of Tatar. The Siberian Tatars tried to avoid the census as much as possible, as they believed that it was an attempt to force them to pay the Yasak (tribute).\nTheir population in the territory of the current Tyumen Oblast in 1926 was recorded as 70,000; in 1959 as 72,306; in 1970 as 102,859; 136,749 in 1979; 227,423 in 1989; and 242,325 in 2002. According to the results of the 2002 Russian Census, there were 385,949 Tatars living in the oblasts discussed above. (Their territory roughly corresponds to the historical territory of the Siberian Khanate). Of these Tatars only 9,289 identified as Siberian Tatars.\n\n2002 Russian Census recorded a total of 9,611 Siberian Tatars in Russia. Some publications estimated their number in the range of 190,000-210,000. Such significant discrepancy is explained by the fact that the immigrants from the other ethnic groups who are also called Tatar by the Russians were also included in the figure, though most were Volga Tatars.\n\nThe term Siberian Tatar covers three autochthonous groups, all Sunni Muslims of the Hanafi madhab, found in southern Siberia. They are remnants of the Khanate of Sibir, which was conquered by Russia in 1582. Geographically, the Siberian Tatars are divided into three main groups, each speaking their own dialect. Although the Siberian Tatar language has been sometimes considered a dialect of Tatar, detailed linguistic study demonstrates that Siberian Tatar idioms are quite remote from Volga Tatar by origin. Siberian Tatars' ancestry was partly from Turkic and Mongol peoples, but their main ancestors are Samoyedic, Ket, and Ugric tribes.\n\nSiberian Tatar language is, due to the Kipchakization processes during the Middle Ages, many times classified as belonging to the Kypchak–Nogay group of the Kypchak languages. There are approximately as many elements that could be classified in the language group. \n\nBeginning in the 12th century, the Siberian Tatar language received some Karluk influences. Those Siberian Tatars who are living in ethnically mixed villages where, in the periods after Russian colonization, more numerous Volga Tatars settled, have also been influenced by the Kypchak-Bulgar language.\n\nSiberian Tatar language has different dialects. Since the penetration of Islam until the 1920s after the Russian Revolution, Siberian Tatars, like all Muslim nations, were using an alphabet that had been based on Arabic script. In 1928 they adopted an alphabet based on Latin script, and in 1939 one based on the Cyrillic script. Until 2014, the written language for Siberian Tatars was Tatar, a version based on the grammar rules of Volga Tatars.\nIn the 21st century, work began on the rationalizing of the Siberian Tatar language. Teams have conducted scientific research in the field of literary language norms of the indigenous population of Siberia. They have published the \"Русско-сибирскотатарский словарь = Урысца-сыбырца сүслек\" (2010) (\"Russian-Siberian Tatar Dictionary\"), and \"Грамматика современного сибирскотатарского языка\" (2014)(\"The Grammar of Modern Siberian Tatar Language\"). International Organization for Standardization ISO 639-3 PA with its headquarters in Washington, awarded in 2013, the Siberian Tatar language classification code 'sty' in New Language Code Element in ISO 639-3.\nThe first person who seriously researched Siberian Tatar language was Gabdulkhay Akhatov, a Soviet Volga Tatar linguist and an organizer of science.\n\nThe Tobol-Irtysh Tatars group is the most numerous out of all 3 groups of Siberian Tatars. They live in the Tyumen, Kurgan and Omsk Oblasts.\n\nThe sub-groups are: Zabolotnie (Yaskolbinsk), Tobol, Kurdak-Sargat, Tara, Tyumen-Turin.\n\nTheir self-designation is Baraba, and they are found mainly in the steppe of Baraba, in the Novosibirsk Oblast. Their population is around 8,000.\n\nThe sub-groups are: Baraba-Turazh, Lyubey-Tunus, Terenin-Choy.\n\nThe Tomsk Tatars are indigenous population of Tomsk, Kemerovo and to some extent Novosibirsk Oblasts.\n\nThe sub-groups are: Kalmak, Chat, Eushta.\n\nThe Bukhalyks, literally \"those from the city of Bukhara\" are descendents of 15th- and 16th-century fur merchant colonies from Central Asia. These settlers have now merged entirely with Siberian Tatars.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26781", "title": "Social science", "text": "Social science\n\nSocial science is a category of academic disciplines, concerned with society and the relationships among individuals within a society. Social science as a whole has many branches, each of which is considered a social science. The social sciences include, but are not limited to: anthropology, archaeology, communication studies, economics, history, human geography, jurisprudence, linguistics, political science, psychology, public health, and sociology. The term is also sometimes used to refer specifically to the field of sociology, the original \"science of society\", established in the 19th century. For a more detailed list of sub-disciplines within the social sciences see: Outline of social science.\n\nPositivist social scientists use methods resembling those of the natural sciences as tools for understanding society, and so define science in its stricter modern sense. Interpretivist social scientists, by contrast, may use social critique or symbolic interpretation rather than constructing empirically falsifiable theories, and thus treat science in its broader sense. In modern academic practice, researchers are often eclectic, using multiple methodologies (for instance, by combining both quantitative and qualitative research). The term \"social research\" has also acquired a degree of autonomy as practitioners from various disciplines share in its aims and methods.\n\nThe history of the social sciences begins in the Age of Enlightenment after 1650, which saw a revolution within natural philosophy, changing the basic framework by which individuals understood what was \"scientific\". Social sciences came forth from the moral philosophy of the time and were influenced by the Age of Revolutions, such as the Industrial Revolution and the French Revolution. The \"social sciences\" developed from the sciences (experimental and applied), or the systematic knowledge-bases or prescriptive practices, relating to the social improvement of a group of interacting entities.\n\nThe beginnings of the social sciences in the 18th century are reflected in the grand encyclopedia of Diderot, with articles from Jean-Jacques Rousseau and other pioneers. The growth of the social sciences is also reflected in other specialized encyclopedias. The modern period saw \"social science\" first used as a distinct conceptual field. Social science was influenced by positivism, focusing on knowledge based on actual positive sense experience and avoiding the negative; metaphysical speculation was avoided. Auguste Comte used the term \"science sociale\" to describe the field, taken from the ideas of Charles Fourier; Comte also referred to the field as \"social physics\".\n\nFollowing this period, there were five paths of development that sprang forth in the social sciences, influenced by Comte on other fields. One route that was taken was the rise of social research. Large statistical surveys were undertaken in various parts of the United States and Europe. Another route undertaken was initiated by Émile Durkheim, studying \"social facts\", and Vilfredo Pareto, opening metatheoretical ideas and individual theories. A third means developed, arising from the methodological dichotomy present, in which social phenomena were identified with and understood; this was championed by figures such as Max Weber. The fourth route taken, based in economics, was developed and furthered economic knowledge as a hard science. The last path was the correlation of knowledge and social values; the antipositivism and verstehen sociology of Max Weber firmly demanded this distinction. In this route, theory (description) and prescription were non-overlapping formal discussions of a subject.\n\nAround the start of the 20th century, Enlightenment philosophy was challenged in various quarters. After the use of classical theories since the end of the scientific revolution, various fields substituted mathematics studies for experimental studies and examining equations to build a theoretical structure. The development of social science subfields became very quantitative in methodology. The interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary nature of scientific inquiry into human behaviour, social and environmental factors affecting it, made many of the natural sciences interested in some aspects of social science methodology. Examples of boundary blurring include emerging disciplines like social research of medicine, sociobiology, neuropsychology, bioeconomics and the history and sociology of science. Increasingly, quantitative research and qualitative methods are being integrated in the study of human action and its implications and consequences. In the first half of the 20th century, statistics became a free-standing discipline of applied mathematics. Statistical methods were used confidently.\n\nIn the contemporary period, Karl Popper and Talcott Parsons influenced the furtherance of the social sciences. Researchers continue to search for a unified consensus on what methodology might have the power and refinement to connect a proposed \"grand theory\" with the various midrange theories that, with considerable success, continue to provide usable frameworks for massive, growing data banks; for more, see consilience. The social sciences will for the foreseeable future be composed of different zones in the research of, and sometime distinct in approach toward, the field.\n\nThe term \"social science\" may refer either to the specific \"sciences of society\" established by thinkers such as Comte, Durkheim, Marx, and Weber, or more generally to all disciplines outside of \"noble science\" and arts. By the late 19th century, the academic social sciences were constituted of five fields: jurisprudence and amendment of the law, education, health, economy and trade, and art.\n\nAround the start of the 21st century, the expanding domain of economics in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism.\n\nThe social science disciplines are branches of knowledge taught and researched at the college or university level. Social science disciplines are defined and recognized by the academic journals in which research is published, and the learned social science societies and academic departments or faculties to which their practitioners belong. Social science fields of study usually have several sub-disciplines or branches, and the distinguishing lines between these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous.\n\nAnthropology is the holistic \"science of man\", a science of the totality of human existence. The discipline deals with the integration of different aspects of the social sciences, humanities, and human biology. In the twentieth century, academic disciplines have often been institutionally divided into three broad domains. The \"natural sciences\" seek to derive general laws through reproducible and verifiable experiments. The \"humanities\" generally study local traditions, through their history, literature, music, and arts, with an emphasis on understanding particular individuals, events, or eras. The \"social sciences\" have generally attempted to develop scientific methods to understand social phenomena in a generalizable way, though usually with methods distinct from those of the natural sciences.\n\nThe anthropological social sciences often develop nuanced descriptions rather than the general laws derived in physics or chemistry, or they may explain individual cases through more general principles, as in many fields of psychology. Anthropology (like some fields of history) does not easily fit into one of these categories, and different branches of anthropology draw on one or more of these domains. Within the United States, anthropology is divided into four sub-fields: archaeology, physical or biological anthropology, anthropological linguistics, and cultural anthropology. It is an area that is offered at most undergraduate institutions. The word \"anthropos\" (ἄνθρωπος) in Ancient Greek means \"human being\" or \"person\". Eric Wolf described sociocultural anthropology as \"the most scientific of the humanities, and the most humanistic of the sciences.\"\n\nThe goal of anthropology is to provide a holistic account of humans and human nature. This means that, though anthropologists generally specialize in only one sub-field, they always keep in mind the biological, linguistic, historic and cultural aspects of any problem. Since anthropology arose as a science in Western societies that were complex and industrial, a major trend within anthropology has been a methodological drive to study peoples in societies with more simple social organization, sometimes called \"primitive\" in anthropological literature, but without any connotation of \"inferior\". Today, anthropologists use terms such as \"less complex\" societies or refer to specific modes of subsistence or production, such as \"pastoralist\" or \"forager\" or \"horticulturalist\" to refer to humans living in non-industrial, non-Western cultures, such people or folk (\"ethnos\") remaining of great interest within anthropology.\n\nThe quest for holism leads most anthropologists to study a people in detail, using biogenetic, archaeological, and linguistic data alongside direct observation of contemporary customs. In the 1990s and 2000s, calls for clarification of what constitutes a culture, of how an observer knows where his or her own culture ends and another begins, and other crucial topics in writing anthropology were heard. It is possible to view all human cultures as part of one large, evolving global culture. These dynamic relationships, between what can be observed on the ground, as opposed to what can be observed by compiling many local observations remain fundamental in any kind of anthropology, whether cultural, biological, linguistic or archaeological.\n\nCommunication studies deals with processes of human communication, commonly defined as the sharing of symbols to create meaning. The discipline encompasses a range of topics, from face-to-face conversation to mass media outlets such as television broadcasting. Communication studies also examines how messages are interpreted through the political, cultural, economic, and social dimensions of their contexts. Communication is institutionalized under many different names at different universities, including \"communication\", \"communication studies\", \"speech communication\", \"rhetorical studies\", \"communication science\", \"media studies\", \"communication arts\", \"mass communication\", \"media ecology\", and \"communication and media science\".\n\nCommunication studies integrates aspects of both social sciences and the humanities. As a social science, the discipline often overlaps with sociology, psychology, anthropology, biology, political science, economics, and public policy, among others. From a humanities perspective, communication is concerned with rhetoric and persuasion (traditional graduate programs in communication studies trace their history to the rhetoricians of Ancient Greece). The field applies to outside disciplines as well, including engineering, architecture, mathematics, and information science.\n\nEconomics is a social science that seeks to analyze and describe the production, distribution, and consumption of wealth. The word \"economics\" is from the Ancient Greek \"oikos\", \"family, household, estate\", and νόμος \"nomos\", \"custom, law\", and hence means \"household management\" or \"management of the state\". An economist is a person using economic concepts and data in the course of employment, or someone who has earned a degree in the subject. The classic brief definition of economics, set out by Lionel Robbins in 1932, is \"the science which studies human behavior as a relation between scarce means having alternative uses\". Without scarcity and alternative uses, there is no economic problem. Briefer yet is \"the study of how people seek to satisfy needs and wants\" and \"the study of the financial aspects of human behavior\".\n\nEconomics has two broad branches: microeconomics, where the unit of analysis is the individual agent, such as a household or firm, and macroeconomics, where the unit of analysis is an economy as a whole. Another division of the subject distinguishes positive economics, which seeks to predict and explain economic phenomena, from normative economics, which orders choices and actions by some criterion; such orderings necessarily involve subjective value judgments. Since the early part of the 20th century, economics has focused largely on measurable quantities, employing both theoretical models and empirical analysis. Quantitative models, however, can be traced as far back as the physiocratic school. Economic reasoning has been increasingly applied in recent decades to other social situations such as politics, law, psychology, history, religion, marriage and family life, and other social interactions.\nThis paradigm crucially assumes (1) that resources are scarce because they are not sufficient to satisfy all wants, and (2) that \"economic value\" is willingness to pay as revealed for instance by market (arms' length) transactions. Rival heterodox schools of thought, such as institutional economics, green economics, Marxist economics, and economic sociology, make other grounding assumptions. For example, Marxist economics assumes that economics primarily deals with the investigation of exchange value, of which human labour is the source.\n\nThe expanding domain of economics in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism.\n\nEducation encompasses teaching and learning specific skills, and also something less tangible but more profound: the imparting of knowledge, positive judgement and well-developed wisdom. Education has as one of its fundamental aspects the imparting of culture from generation to generation (see socialization). To educate means 'to draw out', from the Latin \"educare\", or to facilitate the realization of an individual's potential and talents. It is an application of pedagogy, a body of theoretical and applied research relating to teaching and learning and draws on many disciplines such as psychology, philosophy, computer science, linguistics, neuroscience, sociology and anthropology.\n\nThe education of an individual human begins at birth and continues throughout life. (Some believe that education begins even before birth, as evidenced by some parents' playing music or reading to the baby in the womb in the hope it will influence the child's development.) For some, the struggles and triumphs of daily life provide far more instruction than does formal schooling (thus Mark Twain's admonition to \"never let school interfere with your education\"). Family members may have a profound educational effect — often more profound than they realize — though family teaching may function very informally.\n\nGeography as a discipline can be split broadly into two main sub fields: human geography and physical geography. The former focuses largely on the built environment and how space is created, viewed and managed by humans as well as the influence humans have on the space they occupy. This may involve cultural geography, transportation, health, military operations, and cities. The latter examines the natural environment and how the climate, vegetation and life, soil, oceans, water and landforms are produced and interact. Physical geography examines phenomena related to the measurement of earth. As a result of the two subfields using different approaches a third field has emerged, which is environmental geography. Environmental geography combines physical and human geography and looks at the interactions between the environment and humans. Other branches of geography include social geography, regional geography, and geomatics.\n\nGeographers attempt to understand the Earth in terms of physical and spatial relationships. The first geographers focused on the science of mapmaking and finding ways to precisely project the surface of the earth. In this sense, geography bridges some gaps between the natural sciences and social sciences. Historical geography is often taught in a college in a unified Department of Geography.\n\nModern geography is an all-encompassing discipline, closely related to GISc, that seeks to understand humanity and its natural environment. The fields of urban planning, regional science, and planetology are closely related to geography. Practitioners of geography use many technologies and methods to collect data such as GIS, remote sensing, aerial photography, statistics, and global positioning systems (GPS).\n\nHistory is the continuous, systematic narrative and research into past human events as interpreted through historiographical paradigms or theories.\n\nHistory has a base in both the social sciences and the humanities. In the United States the National Endowment for the Humanities includes history in its definition of humanities (as it does for applied linguistics). However, the National Research Council classifies history as a social science. The historical method comprises the techniques and guidelines by which historians use primary sources and other evidence to research and then to write history. The Social Science History Association, formed in 1976, brings together scholars from numerous disciplines interested in social history.\n\nThe social science of law, jurisprudence, in common parlance, means a rule that (unlike a rule of ethics) is capable of enforcement through institutions. However, many laws are based on norms accepted by a community and thus have an ethical foundation. The study of law crosses the boundaries between the social sciences and humanities, depending on one's view of research into its objectives and effects. Law is not always enforceable, especially in the international relations context. It has been defined as a \"system of rules\", as an \"interpretive concept\" to achieve justice, as an \"authority\" to mediate people's interests, and even as \"the command of a sovereign, backed by the threat of a sanction\". However one likes to think of law, it is a completely central social institution. Legal policy incorporates the practical manifestation of thinking from almost every social science and the humanities. Laws are politics, because politicians create them. Law is philosophy, because moral and ethical persuasions shape their ideas. Law tells many of history's stories, because statutes, case law and codifications build up over time. And law is economics, because any rule about contract, tort, property law, labour law, company law and many more can have long-lasting effects on the distribution of wealth. The noun \"law\" derives from the late Old English \"lagu\", meaning something laid down or fixed and the adjective \"legal\" comes from the Latin word \"lex\".\n\nLinguistics investigates the cognitive and social aspects of human language. The field is divided into areas that focus on aspects of the linguistic signal, such as syntax (the study of the rules that govern the structure of sentences), semantics (the study of meaning), morphology (the study of the structure of words), phonetics (the study of speech sounds) and phonology (the study of the abstract sound system of a particular language); however, work in areas like evolutionary linguistics (the study of the origins and evolution of language) and psycholinguistics (the study of psychological factors in human language) cut across these divisions.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of modern research in linguistics takes a predominantly synchronic perspective (focusing on language at a particular point in time), and a great deal of it—partly owing to the influence of Noam Chomsky—aims at formulating theories of the cognitive processing of language. However, language does not exist in a vacuum, or only in the brain, and approaches like contact linguistics, creole studies, discourse analysis, social interactional linguistics, and sociolinguistics explore language in its social context. Sociolinguistics often makes use of traditional quantitative analysis and statistics in investigating the frequency of features, while some disciplines, like contact linguistics, focus on qualitative analysis. While certain areas of linguistics can thus be understood as clearly falling within the social sciences, other areas, like acoustic phonetics and neurolinguistics, draw on the natural sciences. Linguistics draws only secondarily on the humanities, which played a rather greater role in linguistic inquiry in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Ferdinand Saussure is considered the father of modern linguistics.\n\nPolitical science is an academic and research discipline that deals with the theory and practice of politics and the description and analysis of political systems and political behaviour. Fields and subfields of political science include political economy, political theory and philosophy, civics and comparative politics, theory of direct democracy, apolitical governance, participatory direct democracy, national systems, cross-national political analysis, political development, international relations, foreign policy, international law, politics, public administration, administrative behaviour, public law, judicial behaviour, and public policy. Political science also studies power in international relations and the theory of great powers and superpowers.\n\nPolitical science is methodologically diverse, although recent years have witnessed an upsurge in the use of the scientific method, that is, the proliferation of formal-deductive model building and quantitative hypothesis testing. Approaches to the discipline include rational choice, classical political philosophy, interpretivism, structuralism, and behaviouralism, realism, pluralism, and institutionalism. Political science, as one of the social sciences, uses methods and techniques that relate to the kinds of inquiries sought: primary sources such as historical documents, interviews, and official records, as well as secondary sources such as scholarly articles are used in building and testing theories. Empirical methods include survey research, statistical analysis or econometrics, case studies, experiments, and model building. Herbert Baxter Adams is credited with coining the phrase \"political science\" while teaching history at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nPsychology is an academic and applied field involving the study of behaviour and mental processes. Psychology also refers to the application of such knowledge to various spheres of human activity, including problems of individuals' daily lives and the treatment of mental illness. The word \"psychology\" comes from the Ancient Greek ψυχή \"psyche\" (\"soul\", \"mind\") and \"logy\" (\"study\").\n\nPsychology differs from anthropology, economics, political science, and sociology in seeking to capture explanatory generalizations about the mental function and overt behaviour of individuals, while the other disciplines focus on creating descriptive generalizations about the functioning of social groups or situation-specific human behaviour. In practice, however, there is quite a lot of cross-fertilization that takes place among the various fields. Psychology differs from biology and neuroscience in that it is primarily concerned with the interaction of mental processes and behaviour, and of the overall processes of a system, and not simply the biological or neural processes themselves, though the subfield of neuropsychology combines the study of the actual neural processes with the study of the mental effects they have subjectively produced.\nMany people associate psychology with clinical psychology, which focuses on assessment and treatment of problems in living and psychopathology. In reality, psychology has myriad specialties including social psychology, developmental psychology, cognitive psychology, educational psychology, industrial-organizational psychology, mathematical psychology, neuropsychology, and quantitative analysis of behaviour.\n\nPsychology is a very broad science that is rarely tackled as a whole, major block. Although some subfields encompass a natural science base and a social science application, others can be clearly distinguished as having little to do with the social sciences or having a lot to do with the social sciences. For example, biological psychology is considered a natural science with a social scientific application (as is clinical medicine), social and occupational psychology are, generally speaking, purely social sciences, whereas neuropsychology is a natural science that lacks application out of the scientific tradition entirely. In British universities, emphasis on what tenet of psychology a student has studied and/or concentrated is communicated through the degree conferred: B.Psy. indicates a balance between natural and social sciences, B.Sc. indicates a strong (or entire) scientific concentration, whereas a B.A. underlines a majority of social science credits. This is not always necessarily the case however, and in many UK institutions students studying the B.Psy, B.Sc, and B.A. follow the same curriculum as outlined by The British Psychological Society and have the same options of specialism open to them regardless of whether they choose a balance, a heavy science basis, or heavy social science basis to their degree. If they applied to read the B.A. for example, but specialized in heavily science-based modules, then they will still generally be awarded the B.A.\n\nSociology is the systematic study of society, individuals' relationship to their societies, the consequences of difference, and other aspects of human social action. The meaning of the word comes from the suffix \"-logy\", which means \"study of\", derived from Ancient Greek, and the stem \"soci-\", which is from the Latin word \"socius\", meaning \"companion\", or society in general.\n\nAuguste Comte (1798–1857) coined the term, Sociology, as a way to apply natural science principles and techniques to the social world in 1838. Comte endeavoured to unify history, psychology and economics through the descriptive understanding of the social realm. He proposed that social ills could be remedied through sociological positivism, an epistemological approach outlined in \"The Course in Positive Philosophy\" [1830–1842] and \"A General View of Positivism\" (1844). Though Comte is generally regarded as the \"Father of Sociology\", the discipline was formally established by another French thinker, Émile Durkheim (1858–1917), who developed positivism as a foundation to practical social research. Durkheim set up the first European department of sociology at the University of Bordeaux in 1895, publishing his \"Rules of the Sociological Method\". In 1896, he established the journal \"L'Année Sociologique\". Durkheim's seminal monograph, \"Suicide\" (1897), a case study of suicide rates among Catholic and Protestant populations, distinguished sociological analysis from psychology or philosophy.\n\nKarl Marx rejected Comte's positivism but nevertheless aimed to establish a \"science of society\" based on historical materialism, becoming recognized as a founding figure of sociology posthumously as the term gained broader meaning. Around the start of the 20th century, the first wave of German sociologists, including Max Weber and Georg Simmel, developed sociological antipositivism. The field may be broadly recognized as an amalgam of three modes of social thought in particular: Durkheimian positivism and structural functionalism; Marxist historical materialism and conflict theory; and Weberian antipositivism and verstehen analysis. American sociology broadly arose on a separate trajectory, with little Marxist influence, an emphasis on rigorous experimental methodology, and a closer association with pragmatism and social psychology. In the 1920s, the Chicago school developed symbolic interactionism. Meanwhile, in the 1930s, the Frankfurt School pioneered the idea of critical theory, an interdisciplinary form of Marxist sociology drawing upon thinkers as diverse as Sigmund Freud and Friedrich Nietzsche. Critical theory would take on something of a life of its own after World War II, influencing literary criticism and the Birmingham School establishment of cultural studies.\n\nSociology evolved as an academic response to the challenges of modernity, such as industrialization, urbanization, secularization, and a perceived process of enveloping rationalization. The field generally concerns the social rules and processes that bind and separate people not only as individuals, but as members of associations, groups, communities and institutions, and includes the examination of the organization and development of human social life. The sociological field of interest ranges from the analysis of short contacts between anonymous individuals on the street to the study of global social processes. In the terms of sociologists Peter L. Berger and Thomas Luckmann, social scientists seek an understanding of the \"Social Construction of Reality\". Most sociologists work in one or more subfields. One useful way to describe the discipline is as a cluster of sub-fields that examine different dimensions of society. For example, social stratification studies inequality and class structure; demography studies changes in a population size or type; criminology examines criminal behaviour and deviance; and political sociology studies the interaction between society and state.\n\nSince its inception, sociological epistemologies, methods, and frames of enquiry, have significantly expanded and diverged. Sociologists use a diversity of research methods, collect both quantitative and qualitative data, draw upon empirical techniques, and engage critical theory. Common modern methods include case studies, historical research, interviewing, participant observation, social network analysis, survey research, statistical analysis, and model building, among other approaches. Since the late 1970s, many sociologists have tried to make the discipline useful for purposes beyond the academy. The results of sociological research aid educators, lawmakers, administrators, developers, and others interested in resolving social problems and formulating public policy, through subdisciplinary areas such as evaluation research, methodological assessment, and public sociology.\n\nIn the early 1970s, women sociologists began to question sociological paradigms and the invisibility of women in sociological studies, analysis, and courses. In 1969, feminist sociologists challenged the discipline's androcentrism at the American Sociological Association's annual conference. This led to the founding of the organization Sociologists for Women in Society, and, eventually, a new sociology journal, Gender & Society. Today, the sociology of gender is considered to be one of the most prominent sub-fields in the discipline.\n\nNew sociological sub-fields continue to appear — such as community studies, computational sociology, environmental sociology, network analysis, actor-network theory, gender studies, and a growing list, many of which are cross-disciplinary in nature.\n\nAdditional applied or interdisciplinary fields related to the social sciences include:\n\nThe origin of the survey can be traced back at least early as the Domesday Book in 1086, while some scholars pinpoint the origin of demography to 1663 with the publication of John Graunt's \"Natural and Political Observations upon the Bills of Mortality\". Social research began most intentionally, however, with the positivist philosophy of science in the 19th century.\n\nIn contemporary usage, \"social research\" is a relatively autonomous term, encompassing the work of practitioners from various disciplines that share in its aims and methods. Social scientists employ a range of methods in order to analyse a vast breadth of social phenomena; from census survey data derived from millions of individuals, to the in-depth analysis of a single agent's social experiences; from monitoring what is happening on contemporary streets, to the investigation of ancient historical documents. The methods originally rooted in classical sociology and statistical mathematics have formed the basis for research in other disciplines, such as political science, media studies, and marketing and market research.\n\nSocial research methods may be divided into two broad schools:\n\nSocial scientists will commonly combine quantitative and qualitative approaches as part of a multi-strategy design. Questionnaires, field-based data collection, archival database information and laboratory-based data collections are some of the measurement techniques used. It is noted the importance of measurement and analysis, focusing on the (difficult to achieve) goal of objective research or statistical hypothesis testing. A mathematical model uses mathematical language to describe a system. The process of developing a mathematical model is termed 'mathematical modelling' (also modeling). Eykhoff (1974) defined a \"mathematical model\" as 'a representation of the essential aspects of an existing system (or a system to be constructed) that presents knowledge of that system in usable form'. Mathematical models can take many forms, including but not limited to dynamical systems, statistical models, differential equations, or game theoretic models.\n\nThese and other types of models can overlap, with a given model involving a variety of abstract structures. The system is a set of interacting or interdependent entities, real or abstract, forming an integrated whole. The concept of an \"integrated whole\" can also be stated in terms of a system embodying a set of relationships that are differentiated from relationships of the set to other elements, and from relationships between an element of the set and elements not a part of the relational regime. A dynamical system modeled as a mathematical formalization has a fixed \"rule\" that describes the time dependence of a point's position in its ambient space. Small changes in the state of the system correspond to small changes in the numbers. The \"evolution rule\" of the dynamical system is a fixed rule that describes what future states follow from the current state. The rule is deterministic: for a given time interval only one future state follows from the current state.\n\nSocial sciences are criticized for neglecting the moral element of human behavior. Economists tend to focus on self-interest. Clinical psychologists—on the effects of early socialization. Anthropologists tend to assume moral relativism. Sociologists often blame the System for immoral behavior. Socio-biologists tend to assume limited choice behavior. All this, critics hold, contrasts with the fact that life is a constant wrestle between people's moral commitments and urges that pull them to violate these commitments.\n\nOther social scientists emphasize the subjective nature of research. These writers share social theory perspectives that include various types of the following:\n\nOther fringe social scientists delve in alternative nature of research. These writers share social theory perspectives that include various types of the following:\n\nMost universities offer degrees in social science fields. The Bachelor of Social Science is a degree targeted at the social sciences in particular. It is often more flexible and in-depth than other degrees that include social science subjects.\n\nIn the United States, a university may offer a student who studies a social sciences field a Bachelor of Arts degree, particularly if the field is within one of the traditional liberal arts such as history, or a BSc: Bachelor of Science degree such as those given by the London School of Economics, as the social sciences constitute one of the two main branches of science (the other being the natural sciences). In addition, some institutions have degrees for a particular social science, such as the Bachelor of Economics degree, though such specialized degrees are relatively rare in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24196458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24196458", "title": "Sodha", "text": "Sodha\n\nSodha is a Rajput clan found in Sindh and Kutch, Gujarat. The population in Pakistan comprises between 25,000 and 30,000 families. From these, around 700-800 people travel to the Indian state of Rajasthan every year in search of a spouse. This is necessary because otherwise, being the only Hindu Rajput clan in the area, they would be intermarrying within their gotra. The Government of India has arranged special visitation rights to aid this process, extending the right to stay in India from one month to six months in certain cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "2957567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2957567", "title": "Sonnenborgh Observatory", "text": "Sonnenborgh Observatory\n\nSonnenborgh Observatory (; obs. code: 015) is an astronomical observatory and museum open to the public, located in Utrecht, Netherlands. It was founded in 1853 as a university observatory (of the University of Utrecht) and from 1854 until 1897 it was the first home of the Royal Dutch Meteorological Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "23735349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23735349", "title": "Sámi school (Sweden)", "text": "Sámi school (Sweden)\n\nSámi schools, which were referred to as \"Nomad schools\" or \"Lapp schools\" before 1977, are a type of school in Sweden that runs parallel to the standard primary school system. Sámi schools are part of the Swedish public school system, and as such are governed by the same curriculum that primary schools are. Sámi schools are state-owned educational institutions that are open to all children whose parents claim to be Sámi. Each school has its own dormitory that many students live in for large parts of the academic year due to the long distances in the north of Sweden.\n\nTeaching took place in both Swedish and Sámi, which was also taught separately. The Sámi schools have a small number of students. The schools are located in Karesuando, Lannavaara, Kiruna, Gällivare and Jokkmokk in Norrbotten County and in Tärnaby in Västerbotten County. Grades 1-6 are taught everywhere but Gällivare, where only grades 7-9 are taught. Some municipalities in Lapland do not have their own Sámi school, so they have integrated Sámi teaching at the primary school level and native-language education in Sámi when it can be arranged. The Sami Education Board () in Jokkmokk has been responsible for the Sámi schools since 1981. Board members, who are Sámi themselves, are appointed by the Sami Parliament of Sweden.\n\nAn ordinance on nomad schools was passed in Sweden in 1913. This type of school ran parallel to the primary school form prevalent at the time called \"folkskola\". While the number of days in the academic year was the same as for the \"folkskola\", the academic year itself was adapted to conform to the everyday life that the Sámi led at the time. During the 1940s and 1950s, the school \"goahti\" that were in use were replaced with a western-style dormitory. Up until the 1950s, nomad schools could either be mobile or be in a fixed location. After that decade, however, the mobile versions were discontinued.\n\nThe latter six had been sent to the bailiff in Tornio to be transported over the water. The other ten were to be accompanied by Hjort himself, but one fell ill and had to be left behind. So there were only nine boys left that Daniel Thordsson Hjort led. When they arrived in Gnarp in Hälsingland, however, the two oldest boys ran away while a violent storm raged. Hjort had the entire parish out looking for them, but they were not able to find the two boys. The remaining seven boys were delivered to the bailiff in Gävle, where they were given Western-style clothing and shoes before they were finally settled in Uppsala. It would be Christoffer von Warnstedt, governor of Uppsala Castle, who would be ultimately responsible for their upkeep.\n\nNo one knows how the seven Sámi boys at Uppsala fared. According to an announcement from 1612, however, it transpired that the students received no compensation for their studies during the three years there were at Uppsala.\n\nIn 1617, Nicolaus Andreæ, the vicar in Piteå, offered to found a school for the Sámi. This idea was supported by King Gustav II Adolf. Andreæ was from a birkarl family and knew some Sámi. Each year, six boys would be educated at the newly founded Lapp school in the hopes that some of them would eventually become priests and start working with the mission in Lappmarken. In 1619, Andreæ published a liturgy book and primer in Sámi; these were the first books to be published in the language.\n\nWhen Andreæ died in 1628, the school only had three students, who stayed on to be taught by his successor, Johannes Hossius. In 1632, they transferred to the newly founded Skyttean school in Lycksele.\n\nAfter Andreæ's death, no other priest was available who knew Sámi. As the priests lived on the coast and only made the trip up to Lappmarken a couple of times a year, they had to preach to the masses through an interpreter. \n\nThe dean in Umeå, Olaus Petri Niurenius, saw that this was a problem and discussed the matter with person councillor () Johan Skytte. This resulted in a new Lapp school, the Skyttean school, being set up in Lycksele with Johan Skytte providing backing for it. The school seemed to be open already in February 1632 with two former students from the Lapp school in Piteå having joined its staff as teachers. In April, Niurenius announced that the school had eleven students. One of the main objectives was to supply academically gifted boys for the seminary, so that they could then return to work amongst their own people. In 1633, the post of Sámi catechist was established at the Skyttean school. This resulted in the majority of teaching taking place in Swedish.\n\nThe first student from the Skyttean school that was actually ordained as a priest was Olaus Stephani Graan, who became head of his old school in 1657. He wrote two books that would go on to have a major impact on the school’s program: \"Cathechetiska frågor, tryckte 1688 until Lapparnes undervisning\", as well as an updated edition of the \"Manuale Lapponicum\", containing Psalms and Ecclesiastes from the Old Testament, a Catechism, a psalter, and a lectionary – all in Sámi.\n\nBy 1725, a total of 14 students with a Sámi background had enrolled at the University of Uppsala. The majority of these students came from the Skyttean school in Lycksele, but some of them also had ties leading back to Andreæ in Piteå. The 14 students and the year each one enrolled at the university are as follows:\n\n\nAt the same time, there were Sámi students at other institutes of higher education such as Härnösands gymnasium, which is, for example, where Olaus Stephani Graan studied.\n\nThe royal decree of 1723 \"Lappländarnes flitigare undervisning i kristendomen and skolars inrättande där i orten\" stated that Lapp schools were to be established at each and every one of the seven main churches in Lappland. This resulted in schools being set up at Jokkmokk and Åsele in 1732, Arjeplog in 1743, Jukkasjärvi in 1744, Föllinge in 1748, Gällivare in 1756 and Enontekiö in 1813. As with the Skyttean school, which still existed, these were small schools that usually had six pupils whom the Crown provided upkeep for. The idea was that after two years in the Lapp school students would be able to start teaching other children back home.\n\nThis new decree changed the character of the Lapp schools. The new schools lacked the academic emphasis that the Skyttean school had had. Instead, these schools were two-year boarding schools at the primary level where schoolchildren were taught reading and Christianity.\n\nThese schools existed until 1820. During the last year of their existence, Åsele, Lycksele, Arjeplog, Jokkmokk and Gällivare had a ”full school”, i.e., six students and Jukkasjärvi and Karesuando had ”half” schools with three students each. As the number of pupils in the Lapp schools was so limited, catechists were used to supplement their education. Any Sámi whose children were not attending the school, but were otherwise interested, could request a catechist from their pastor. The catechist taught the family's children at home and could even spend an entire winter with one family.\n\nThe Lapp schools in Åsele, Arjeplog, Jukkasjärvi and Karesuando were closed in 1820, replaced by a new, mobile form of teaching. By this point in time, catechists were responsible for teaching the entire curriculum to an entire siida or some other larger group of Sámi.\n"}
{"id": "22523702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22523702", "title": "U.S. Marshals 15 Most Wanted Fugitives", "text": "U.S. Marshals 15 Most Wanted Fugitives\n\nThe United States Marshals Service 15 Most Wanted Fugitives Program was established in 1983 in an effort to prioritize the investigation and apprehension of high-profile offenders who are considered to be some of the country’s most dangerous fugitives. They tend to be career criminals with histories of violence or whose instant offenses pose a significant threat to public safety.\n\nCurrent and past fugitives in this program include murderers, sex offenders, major drug lords, organized crime figures, and individuals wanted for high-profile financial crimes. The list is similar, but not identical, to the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list. Like the FBI list, the USMS list is commonly posted in public places such as post offices. The motto for U.S. Marshals 15 Most Wanted Fugitive is \"The Hunt is On\".\n\nList based on the 15 Most Wanted list as of November 30, 2018. U.S. Marshals continue to list dead or captured fugitives in the \"15 Most Wanted\" until they are replaced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "880850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880850", "title": "Underinsured", "text": "Underinsured\n\nUnderinsured refers to various degrees of being insured for some real risks and uninsured for others, at the same time.\n\nJohns Hopkins University professor Vicente Navarro stated in 2003, \"the problem does not end here, with the uninsured. An even larger problem is the underinsured\" and \"The most credible estimate of the number of people in the United States who have died because of lack of medical care was provided by a study carried out by Harvard Medical School Professors Himmelstein and Woolhandler (\"New England Journal of Medicine\" 336, no. 11, 1997). They concluded that almost 100,000 people died in the United States each year because of lack of needed care—three times the number of people who died of AIDS.\"\n\nIn the auto insurance industry, underinsured motorist coverage is designed to protect motorists in the event that they have an accident with an at-fault underinsured motorist.\n"}
{"id": "4646824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4646824", "title": "Vacancy chain", "text": "Vacancy chain\n\nA vacancy chain is a social structure through which resources are distributed to consumers. In a vacancy chain, a new resource unit that arrives into a population is taken by the first individual in line, who then leaves his/her old unit behind, this old unit is taken by a second individual, leaving his/her old unit behind, and so forth.\n\nVacancy chains are started when an initial vacancy enters a population, such as when a new house is built, a new car is manufactured, or a new job is created. It can also begin when an existing unit is vacated by someone leaving the system under consideration, such as an employee retiring, or a home owner goes to a nursing home.\n\nEventually a chain will come to an end, usually with a new entrant into the system or when the last unit in a chain is abandoned, merged, or destroyed. This can involve a new employee recruit or a housing unit on the market for the first time, or when a house in the chain is torn down, left empty, or the duties of a vacant job are distributed among other employees. A vacancy chain is simply the sequence of moves that a vacancy makes from initial entry into a system to final termination. The distribution of material resources and social positions through vacancy chain processes requires that the things distributed possess a number of abstract qualities. These qualities include that the resource units in question are reusable, discrete, identifiable, and utilized by one individual or social group at a time.\n\nFurther, in vacancy chain mobility systems, a unit must be vacant before it can be taken by a new occupant; individuals must need or want new and usually bigger or better units from time to time; vacant units must be scarce (the number is small compared to the number of individuals who want them); and most individuals in a group already must have units so they can leave one behind when they move to a new one.\n\nIn order to trace a vacancy chain, a researcher notes a vacancy coming into a system and then follows this vacancy as it moves to a number of resource units in turn and then finally leaves the system. Since vacancy chains in humans often take considerable periods of time, on the order of months, to move from beginning to end and because the chains often involve people widely scattered geographically, researchers usually trace the chains by reconstructing them from organizational records or from series of linked interviews.\n\nThe length of a vacancy chain is the number of moves a vacancy makes after its entrance into a system, and this includes the terminal move to the absorbing state. Longer chains and more costly resource units generate greater benefits,while shorter chains and less costly units generate smaller benefits, for the individuals and institutions involved. Vacancy chains have patterned effects upon other individuals and, in the human case, institutions connected to the primary individuals actually getting resources in the chains.\n\nUsually when a vacancy occurs the bulk of the people who fill the position(s) come from the inside the internal labor market rather than hiring someone new. The individuals being moved and or promoted to a new job/position often gain a higher salary of more benefits which has an important impact on the organization. Individuals affected by vacancy chains starting in an organization usually are upwardly mobile in small to moderate jumps in status or laterally mobile within their same status; they rarely experience downward mobility. In systems in which they operate, vacancy chains have a strong influence upon organizational demographics. Such factors as length of service distributions for individuals within the organization, rates of advancement within the system, the age distribution of individuals within particular strata, cohort effects for mobility within the system, and waiting times for advancement. Several researchers have used vacancy chain studies to investigate equal opportunity of access by different groups to mobility opportunities.\n\nThe number and initial strata of the vacancy chains created influence the career possibilities of the individuals in the internal labor market and those about to enter. The more chains initiated at higher levels, the more mobility opportunities for individuals throughout the system, as the chains move downward, and the greater the speed with which individuals advance to high status or large units and positions. On the other hand, if chains are mostly initiated at lower levels, individuals already in high status positions will see their careers plateau while only those at lower levels will move comparatively quickly before they reach a career bottleneck caused by the lack of opportunities at higher levels.\n\nSynchronous and asynchronous vacancy chains have been found to occur amongst both terrestrial and marine populations of hermit crabs. The crabs live in shells left behind by other species but need to move into a new, larger, shell as they grow. When a vacant shell becomes available, the crabs may slowly form a chain, ranging from the largest to the smallest crab until one arrives that is just the right size for the shell. Once the \"Goldilocks\" crab claims the new shell leaving its old shell vacant, the crabs then all rapidly exchange shells, in sequence, until they all have a larger shell, allowing them to grow without restriction. This behavior makes Hermit crabs an ideal animal model for testing predictions of vacancy chain theory. Similar shelter-based vacancy chains are likely to take place in many animal groups that use discrete, reusable resources that are limited to occupancy by a single individual or group at a time; some other examples include anemone-dwelling clownfish, and cavity-nesting birds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47005037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47005037", "title": "Volunteer management", "text": "Volunteer management\n\nVolunteer Management is also known as volunteer engagement, volunteer coordination, volunteer administration and refers to “the systematic and logical process of working with and through volunteers to achieve an organisation’s objectives”.\n\nVolunteer Management became an occupation during the late 1960s and early 1970s when the long-term volunteer was the prevalent type of volunteer, at least in the non-profit organisations. At that time, people volunteered as an alternative to work. When the field’s founders began to try to get volunteer management recognised as a profession, they adopted a lot of standard workplace practices, such as written job descriptions and interviews, to determine the volunteer’s suitability for a role. People who volunteered as an alternative to work found that these practices gave their efforts a bit more status, and they responded positively.\n\nModels of Volunteer Management have evolved to meet the changing needs of societies around the world as well as to meet modern needs. Today, Volunteer Management is professionalizing. Many localities have professional associations (AVAs) and international certifications are available (ex. http://cvacert.org/).\n\nVolunteer managers typically motivate, lead and supervise volunteers at non-profit organisations as well as for governmental organisations and large-scale events like the Olympics. The role of a volunteer manager usually ranges from the operational and administrative tasks such as attendance taking to the policy-making tasks like defining volunteer job roles and recruiting and managing volunteers. Many volunteer managers also take on other roles such as being the fundraising manager for their organisations.\n\nAs the online volunteering modality becomes more popular, managers that collaborate with volunteers remotely via the Internet are on the rise. They coordinate their volunteer teams via email, instant messages or collaborative software. The United Nations Online Volunteering service keeps a blog where best practices in online volunteer management are featured.\n\nAiding volunteer management, managers have been encouraged to harness the inherent strengths of their organisation. Using an organisation's brand heritage represents one such approach. Brand heritage can enhance the engagement and subsequent satisfaction volunteers have with the way in which they are managed. Consequently, managers are called upon to first protect their volunteer organisation's brand heritage, and to utilize it as a volunteer management tool.\n\nSeveral experts have various stages and models for a volunteer management system but they tend to have several common features. Volunteer management usually involves planning for the role that volunteers would fill, recruiting and screening the volunteers as well as supervising and motivating the volunteers under their charge. Many volunteer management practices resemble human resource management practices, with some nonprofits and NGOs including volunteer management under the human resources department.\n\nHowever, in research conducted at the University of Newcastle, Australia in 2015 which interviewed volunteer managers about their roles identified that there are significant differences between volunteer management and human resource management suggesting this profession requires a different skills set.\n\n\nMorgan, G. W. (2015) An exploration of volunteer attrition in the Hunter region: Implications for volunteer sector managers\n"}
