{"id": "1109490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1109490", "title": "ABRSM", "text": "ABRSM\n\nThe Associated Board of the Royal Schools of Music (ABRSM) is an examinations board and registered charity based in London, UK, which provides examinations in music at centres around the world. ABRSM is one of four examination boards accredited by Ofqual to award graded exams and diploma qualifications in music within the UK's National Qualifications Framework (along with the London College of Music, Rockschool Ltd and Trinity College London). 'The Associated Board of the Royal Schools of Music' was established in 1889 and rebranded as ABRSM in 2009. The clarifying strapline \"the exam board of the Royal Schools of Music\" was introduced in 2012.\n\nThe Royal Schools referred to in ABRSM's title are:\n\nMore than 600,000 candidates take ABRSM exams each year in over 93 countries. ABRSM also provides a publishing house for music which produces syllabus booklets, sheet music and exam papers and runs professional development courses and seminars for teachers.\n\nABRSM is one of the UK's 200 largest charitable organisations ranked by annual expenditure. For the year ended 31 January 2014, income was £42.9 million and expenditure was £39.7 million.\n\nGraded music exams provide a structured framework for progression from beginner to advanced musician. In the United Kingdom, ABRSM graded examinations are QCA-accredited at three levels in the National Qualifications Framework: Grades 1–3 at Level 1 (SQA: National 5, GCSE: Grades D–G), Grades 4–5 at Level 2 (SQA: Higher (G4) and Advanced Higher (G5), GCSE: grades A*–C) and Grades 6–8 at Level 3 (SQA: Advanced Higher, GCE: A-Level). Most subjects are offered from Grades 1–8 and have three standards of pass: a straight pass, a pass with merit and a pass with distinction. Candidates may enter any Practical or Music Theory exam grade without having taken any other, though there is a requirement to have passed Grade 5 Theory or Grade 5 Practical Musicianship or Grade 5 in a solo Jazz subject before Grade 6–8 Practical exams can be taken. Passes in Grades 6–8 in either Music Theory or Practical exams may be used as part of the UCAS tariff in obtaining a university place in Britain. The four types of graded exam are as follows:\n\nThese are by far the most commonly taken exams. Available for over 35 instruments, these exams incorporate four individual components:\n\nThe exams are marked out of 150, where 100 is a pass, 120 a pass with merit, and 130 a distinction.\n\nMusic Theory is examined through written papers. Papers last between one and a half and three hours depending on the grade. They are marked out of 100, where 66 is a pass, 80 a merit, and 90 a distinction.\nCandidates are required to pass Grade 5 Theory, Grade 5 Practical Musicianship or Grade 5 in a solo Jazz subject in order to progress to Practical exams at Grades 6, 7 and 8.\n\nIn a Practical Musicianship exam candidates demonstrate their understanding of melody, harmony, rhythm and form by responding to questions about music and by singing or playing an instrument of their choice in a series of tests. This exam is unaccredited and is used as an internal assessment prerequisite.\n\nJazz exams (Grades 1–5) are available for a variety of instruments. They are marked in the same way as Practical exams. However, many of the pieces include large improvisational sections, where the instrumentalist is required to fill in the empty bars with their own melody to fit the standard chord progression listed above.\n\nMusic Medals are QCA–accredited music assessments and teaching resources aimed at younger, group-taught learners. Music Medals are distinct from graded music exams in that no external examiners are involved and the initial assessment is made by the teacher.\n\nABRSM offers diplomas in three disciplines:\n\nFor each discipline there are four levels of award:\n\nThese are professional qualifications, and entitle the recipient to append the letters after his or her name. The prerequisite for ARSM and DipABRSM is Grade 8 in the instrument offered, and LRSM and FRSM require the previous diploma in the same discipline to have been passed. In addition, for the Instrumental/Vocal Teaching discipline, candidates for DipABRSM must have Grade 6 Theory, and Grade 8 Music Theory for LRSM.\n\nThe examinations for DipABRSM, LRSM and FRSM are divided as follows: \nCandidates perform various pieces from a selected list and may select works other than those listed but should not exceed one third of the entire recital programme. Recital time for DipABRSM is 35 minutes, ARSM is 30 minutes (performance only), LRSM is 40 minutes while for FRSM the time range is around 50 minutes.\n\nBefore the viva voce, the candidate must submit written programme notes on the day of the exam (for FRSM, the written submission should be submitted \"with\" the application form, in the form of an essay with in-depth analysis and requires sophisticated knowledge of the history, context of the composer as well as the era in which the works were composed) which should include background information as well as sufficient information and analysis of the works that are performed. The examiner(s) would engage in a conversation with the candidate concerning the notes submitted as well as other related questions that would allow the candidate to demonstrate his or her knowledge as a professional musician.\n\nThe Quick Study is a short piece with an equivalent difficulty of an ABRSM Grade 6 piece (for DipABRSM), an ABRSM Grade 7 piece (for LRSM) and an ABRSM Grade 8 piece (for FRSM). The candidate is required to sightread the piece and may be asked questions about the technical aspects and style of the selection.\n\nCandidates are expected to discuss their teaching materials and approach, and at LRSM must provide a video recording of their teaching. At DipABRSM candidates are assessed on their understanding of the principles of teaching up to Grade 5 level. At LRSM candidates are expected to demonstrate skills in teaching up to Grade 8 level, and for FRSM, up to DipABRSM level. The written submissions and Viva Voce are considerably longer than those for Music Performance. While there is no Recital section, candidates are expected to include demonstrations of passages in repertoire as part of their Viva Voce (e.g. candidates for FRSM Teaching are expected to be able to give authoritative demonstrations of sections of repertoire that are of a level to be performed in a DipABRSM exam). The Quick Study is the same as for the Performance diploma at the same level.\n\nSince 1995, the CT ABRSM (Certificate of Teaching) designed specifically for music teachers has been offered in addition to the diplomas, albeit as a separate qualification. In 2010, the new CT ABRSM Plus, which combined the DipABRSM and old CT ABRSM, was launched to give teachers access to the DipABRSM. From September 2013, the CT ABRSM Plus stopped being offered in the UK or Singapore for financial reasons. The CT ABRSM Plus is now only offered in Hong Kong. There are also numerous short courses and seminars on music teaching, accompaniment and syllabus instruction available to teachers.\n\nABRSM published its first books in 1918 and its publishing department was first set up in 1921 and was designed to provide suitable music for examinations, performance editions of popular works and new instructional compositions. One of the original editors was Sir Donald Tovey, who wrote informative notes on the music which are still highly regarded today. ABRSM (Publishing) Ltd. was established as a separate company in 1985.\n\nABRSM continues to produce copies of popular works, along with commentaries from distinguished editors. It publishes contemporary music in its \"Spectrum\" series of books, and also issues a variety of publications for beginners and younger instrumentalists such as the 'Time Pieces' books for a variety of instruments and 'Joining the Dots' for piano, guitar and violin players.\n\nSince 2009 ABRSM has produced several practice applications to support teachers and students:\n\n\nThe Associated Board of the Royal Schools of Music was founded in 1889 when Alexander Mackenzie, then the Principal of the Royal Academy of Music, and George Grove, founding Director of the Royal College of Music, decided that both institutions should combine to form an associated examining board to run joint local exams. The first syllabi was published in 1890 for Piano, Organ, Violin, Cello and Harp, with Viola, Double Bass and woodwind instruments added the following year. Originally, the ABRSM had only two grades and were the equivalent of the current grades 6 and 7. Due to the popular demand for beginner grades, the present structure (grades 1-8) was introduced in 1933. In 1947, the Royal Manchester College of Music (merged to form the present Royal Northern College of Music) and Royal Scottish Academy of Music (now the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland) joined ABRSM. Since the post-World War II years, the ABRSM saw an increase in overseas exam applications. The curriculum also expanded, with the addition of Guitar, Saxophone and Recorder. The 1990s saw percussion and jazz added to the syllabus. The current diploma exams were introduced in 2000, as well as similar exams for instructors and teachers.\n\nIn 2009 the ABRSM celebrated its 120th anniversary and of the 93 countries in which the association offers music examination support, they have been in Sri Lanka when it was known as Ceylon since 1898; in Malta from 1903; New Zealand (1908); Jamaica (1909); Barbados (1926); Antigua (1941); Kenya (1949); Hong Kong, Malaysia and Cyprus (1951); Brunei and Mauritius (1959); Switzerland (1961); Netherlands (1975); Indonesia (1977); Abu Dhabi (1981); Thailand (1982); USA and Canada (1986); Sweden (1988); Turkey and Portugal (1990); and Serbia (2006).\n\n"}
{"id": "58216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58216", "title": "Accountant", "text": "Accountant\n\nAn accountant is a practitioner of accounting or accountancy, which is the measurement, disclosure or provision of assurance about financial information that helps managers, investors, tax authorities and others make decisions about allocating resource(s).\n\nIn many jurisdictions, professional accounting bodies maintain standards of practice and evaluations for professionals. Accountants who have demonstrated competency through their professional associations' certification exams are certified to use titles such as Chartered Accountant, Chartered Certified Accountant or Certified Public Accountant. Such professionals are granted certain responsibilities by statute, such as the ability to certify an organization's financial statements, and may be held liable for professional misconduct. Non-qualified accountants may be employed by a qualified accountant, or may work independently without statutory privileges and obligations.\n\nCahan & Sun (2015) used archival study to find out that accountants’ personal characteristics may exert a very significant impact during the audit process and further influence audit fees and audit quality.\n\nThe Big Four auditors are the largest employers of accountants worldwide. However, most accountants are employed in commerce, industry and the public sector.\n\nIn the Commonwealth of Nations, which includes the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong pre 1997 and several dozen other states, commonly recognised accounting qualifications are Chartered Certified Accountant (ACCA), Chartered Accountant (CA or ACA), Chartered Management Accountant (ACMA) and International Accountant (AAIA). Other qualifications in particular countries include Certified Public Accountant (CPA – Ireland and CPA – Hong Kong), Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA – Canada), Certified Management Accountant (CMA – Australia) (CMA – Sri Lanka), Certified Practising Accountant (CPA – Australia) and members of the Institute of Public Accountants (Australia), and Certified Public Practising Accountant (CPPA – New Zealand).\n\nThe Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (ICAS) received its Royal Charter in 1854 and is the world's first professional body of accountants.\n\n\nExcepting the Association of Certified Public Accountants, each of the above bodies admits members only after passing examinations and undergoing a period of relevant work experience. Once admitted, members are expected to comply with ethical guidelines and gain appropriate professional experience.\n\nChartered, Chartered Certified, Chartered Public Finance, and International Accountants engaging in practice (i.e. selling services to the public rather than acting as an employee) must gain a \"practising certificate\" by meeting further requirements such as purchasing adequate insurance and undergoing inspections.\n\nThe ICAEW, ICAS, ICAI, ACCA and AAPA are five Recognised Supervisory Bodies (RSB) in the UK. A member of one of them may also become a \"Statutory Auditor\" in accordance with the Companies Act, providing they can demonstrate the necessary professional ability in that area and submit to regular inspection. It is illegal for any individual or firm that is not a Statutory Auditor to perform a company audit.\n\nThe ICAEW, ICAS, ICAI, ACCA, AIA and CIPFA are six recognised qualifying bodies statutory (RQB) in the UK. A member of one of them may also become a \"Statutory Auditor\" in accordance with the Companies Act, providing they are a member of one of the five Recognised Supervisory Bodies RSB mentioned above.\n\nAll six RQBs are listed under EU mutual recognition directives to practise in 27 EU member states and individually entered into agreement with the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (HKICPA).\n\nFurther restrictions apply to accountants who carry out insolvency work.\n\nIn addition to the bodies above, technical qualifications are offered by the Association of Accounting Technicians, ACCA and AIA, which are respectively called AAT Technician, CAT (Certified Accounting Technician) and IAT (International Accounting Technician).\n\nIn Australia, there are three legally recognised local professional accounting bodies which all enjoy the same recognition and can be considered as \"qualified accountant\": the Institute of Public Accountants (IPA), CPA Australia (CPA) and the Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand (CAANZ). Other international bodies such as ACCA (The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) and Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) enjoy recognition for the purposes of supporting their members in their careers. For instance, ACCA has achieved recognition by the Tax Practitioner Board, as Tax and BAS agents, in 2010.\n\nChartered accountancy is governed in Bangladesh by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB).\n\nAnd The Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Bangladesh (ICMAB) offers management accountant studies in Bangladesh.\n\nIn Canada, a Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA) must be a member of the Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada (designatory letters CPA).\n\nUp to 2013, there were three nationally recognized accounting designations in Canada: Chartered Accountant (CA), Certified General Accountant (CGA), and Certified Management Accountants (CMA). The national CA and CGA bodies were created by Acts of Parliament in 1902 and 1913 respectively, The national CMA organization was established under the Canada Corporations Act in 1920.\n\nIn January 2012, following eight months of member and stakeholder consultation, the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (CICA), the Society of Management Accountants of Canada (CMA Canada) and Certified General Accountants of Canada (CGA-Canada) issued \"A Framework for Uniting the Canadian Accounting Profession\" under a new Canadian Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA) designation. Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada (CPA Canada) was established by CICA and CMA Canada on January 1, 2013, under the Canada Not-for-profit Corporations Act, to support Canadian provincial accounting bodies that were unifying under the CPA banner. CGA-Canada integrated with CPA Canada on October 1, 2014, completing the unification of Canada’s accounting profession at the national level.\n\nAll recognized national and provincial accounting bodies in Canada have now unified under the CPA banner. The Canadian CPA designation is held by more than 200,000 members in Canada and around the world.\n\nChartered accountancy is offered in India by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), the second largest accounting body in the world. This Institute was established in 1949 under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 for the regulation of the profession of chartered accountants in India.\n\nThe ICAI set up the Accountancy Museum of India in 2009, the third museum of accounting in the world. It is located at ICAI's office in Noida.\n\nThe Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan (ICAP) offers chartered accountant studies in Pakistan. ICAP was established under The Chartered Accountants Ordinance, 1961 as a self-regulatory body.\n\nThe Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Pakistan (ICMAP) offers accountant studies in Pakistan. ICMAP was established under The Cost and Management Accountants Act, 1966.\n\nPakistan Institute of Public Finance Accountants (PIPFA) is an autonomous body recognized mainly in the government sector and established under license from the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan by the authority given under section 42 of the Companies Ordinance, 1984.\n\nThe body is co-sponsored by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan, the Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Pakistan and the Auditor General of Pakistan.\n\nPIPFA has more than 5,000 members and a number of them are members of ICAP and ICMAP.\n\nThe institute was established to produce a second tier of accounting professionals in Pakistan\n\nIn New Zealand, there are two local accountancy bodies the Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand (CAANZ) and the New Zealand Association of Certified Public Accountants (NZACPA) the operating name of New Zealand Association of Accountants Inc (NZAA).\n\nTo audit public companies an individual must be a member of either the CAANZ or an otherwise gazetted body. Chartered Certified Accountant (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants or FCCA) qualification has also been gazetted under. An ACCA member can practice as long as they hold an ACCA public practice certificate (with audit qualification) in their country of origin.\n\nIn Singapore, a public accountant must be a member of any professional accountancy body in Singapore. Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants (ISCA) is the sole local accountancy body, therefore the public accountant must be a member of the ISCA.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, a chartered accountant must be a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (designatory letters ACA or FCA). It is the sole local accountancy body, therefore to audit public companies an individual must be a member of the ICASL. A Certified management account also must be a member of the Institute of Management Accountants of Sri Lanka (designatory letters ACMA or FCMA).\n\nIn Austria the accountancy profession is regulated by the Bilanzbuchhaltungsgesetz 2006 (BibuG – Management Accountancy Law).\n\nIn Hong Kong, the accountancy industry is regulated by Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants HKICPA under the Professional Accountants Ordinance (Chapter 50, Laws of Hong Kong). The auditing industry for limited companies is regulated under the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 32, Laws of Hong Kong), and other ordinances such as the securities and futures ordinance, the listing rules, etc.\n\nHKICPA terminated all recognition of oversea bodies in 2005 for \"accreditation\" under professional accountants ordinance. In general, all British RQBs except for CIPFA were re-accredited. Please refer to HKICPA for latest recognition.\n\nIn Portugal, there are two accountancy qualifications: the \"Técnicos Oficiais de Contas\" (TOC), responsible for producing accounting and tax information, and the \"Revisor Oficial de Contas\" (ROC), more related to auditing practices. The TOC certification is exclusively awarded by the professional organization \"Ordem dos Técnicos Oficiais de Contas\" (OTOC), and the certification to become an auditor is awarded by another professional organization, the \"Ordem dos Revisores Oficiais de Contas\" (OROC). In general, accountants or auditors accredited by OTOC or OROC are individuals with university graduation diplomas in business management, economics, mathematics or law who, after further studies, applied for an exam and received the certification to be a TOC or ROC. That certification is only received after a one-year (TOC) or three-year (ROC) internship. Any citizen having a polytechnic degree as a bookkeeper is also entitled to apply for the exam and certification at the OTOC.\n\nIn the United States, licensed accountants are Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), and in certain states, Public Accountants (PAs). Unlicensed accountants may be Certified Internal Auditors (CIAs) and Certified Management Accountants (CMAs). The difference between these certifications is primarily the legal status and the types of services provided, although individuals may earn more than one certification. Additionally, much accounting work is performed by uncertified individuals, who may be working under the supervision of a certified accountant. As noted above the majority of accountants work in the private sector or may offer their services without the need for certification.\n\nThe training time required for accountancy certification in the US requires specific guidelines:\n\nA CPA is licensed by a state to provide auditing services to the public. Many CPA firms also offer accounting, tax, litigation support, and other financial advisory services. The requirements for receiving the CPA license vary from state to state, although the passage of the Uniform Certified Public Accountant Examination is required by all states. This examination is designed and graded by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.\n\nA PA (sometimes referred to as LPA—Licensed Public Accountant) is licensed by the state to practice accountancy to the same extent as are CPAs, although in some states PAs are not permitted to perform audits or reviews (notably Iowa, Minnesota, Oregon, & South Carolina). A PA's ability to practice out of state is very limited due to most states having phased out the PA designation. While most states no longer accept new PA license applicants, four states still accept PA applicants for practice privileges within the state. As with the CPA, the requirements for receiving the PA license vary from state to state. Most states require a passage of either 2 or 3 (out of 4) sections of the CPA exam or passage of the Comprehensive Examination for Accreditation in Accounting which is administered and graded by the Accreditation Council for Accountancy and Taxation (ACAT).\n\nA certified internal auditor (CIA) is granted a certificate from the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), provided that the candidate has passed a four-part examination. One of the four parts is waived if the candidate has already passed the CPA Exam. A CIA typically provides services directly to an employer rather than to the public.\n\nA person holding the Certificate in Management Accounting (CMA) is granted the certificate by the Institute of Management Accountants (IMA), provided that the candidate has passed an examination of two parts and has met the practical experience requirement of the IMA. A CMA provides services directly to employers rather than to the public. A CMA can also provide services to the public, but to an extent much lesser than that of a CPA.\n\nAn Enrolled Agent (EA) is a Tax Advisor, federally authorized tax practitioner empowered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Enrolled agent status is the highest credential awarded by the IRS, unlimited rights of representation. The EA credential is recognized across all 50 U.S. states. Candidates must pass a three-part exam (called the Special Enrollment Examination) covering the subjects of individual tax, business tax, and client representation, or must have worked at the IRS for five consecutive years in a position which regularly engaged in these areas.\n\nThe United States Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that there are about one million persons employed as accountants and auditors in the U.S.\n\nU.S. tax laws grant CPAs and EAs a form of accountant–client privilege.\n\nIn Japan, a certified public accountant must be a member of the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA). It is the sole professional accountancy organization in Japan. The JICPA started as a voluntary organization in 1500s and later became a corporation under the CPA Act in 1700s.\n\n"}
{"id": "27670502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27670502", "title": "Afaf Meleis", "text": "Afaf Meleis\n\nAfaf Ibrahim Meleis is a Professor of Nursing and Sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, where she was the Margaret Bond Simon Dean of Nursing and Director of the School's WHO Collaborating Center for Nursing and Midwifery Leadership from 2002 through 2014. This followed her 34-year tenure as a professor at the University of California, San Francisco.\n\nMeleis was born in Alexandria, Egypt. Her mother was a prominent nurse in Egypt, having been the first nurse to earn MPH and PhD degrees at an Egyptian university. She graduated magna cum laude from the University of Alexandria in 1961. She earned an MS in nursing (1964), an MA in sociology (1966) and a PhD in medical and social psychology (1968) from the University of California, Los Angeles. Prior to coming to Penn, she spent more than 30 years on the faculty at the University of California, Los Angeles and the University of California, San Francisco.\n\nMeleis, A. I. (2016). The Undeaning Transition: Toward Becoming a Former Dean. Nursing Outlook. 64 (2), 186-196.\n\nLanger, A., Meleis, A., Knaul, F. M., Atun, R., Aran, M., Arreola-Ornelas, H., ... & Claeson, M. (2015). Women and health: the key for sustainable development. The Lancet, 386(9999), 1165-1210.\n\nMeleis, A.I. (2011). Theoretical nursing: Development and progress (5th Ed.). Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins.\n\nMeleis, A.I., Birch, E., Wachter, S. (Ed.). (2011). Women's Health and the World's Cities. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press\n\nBhutta ZA, Chen L, Cohen J, Crisp N, Evans T, Fineberg H, Frenk J, Garcia P, Horton R, Ke Y, Kelley P, Kistnasamy B, Meleis A., Naylor D, Pablos-Mendez A, Reddy S, Scrimshaw S, Sepulveda J, Serwadda D, Zurayk H. (2010). Education of health professionals for the 21st century: a global independent Commission. Lancet, 375(9721):1137-8.\n\nMeleis, A.I. (2010). Transitions Theory: Middle Range and Situation Specific Theories in Research and Practice. New York, NY: Springer Publishing Company.\n\nMeleis, A.I. (2005) Safe womanhood is not safe motherhood: policy implications. Health Care for Women International, 26(6), 464-471.\nMeleis, A.I. & Dracup, K. (2005). The Case Against the DNP: History, Timing, Substance, and Marginalization. Online Journal of Issues in Nursing. 10 (3), Manuscript 2:\nMeleis, A.I., & Im, E. (2002). Grandmothers and Women's Health: From Fragmentation to Coherence. Health Care for Women International, 23 (2), 207-224.\n\nMeleis, A.I., & Lindgren, T. (2001). Show Me a Woman Who Does Not Work! Journal of Nursing Scholarship, Third Quarter,33(3) 209-210.\n\nMeleis, A.I., Sawyer L., Im, E., Schumacher, K., & Messias, D. (2000). Experiencing transitions: An emerging middle range theory. Advances in Nursing Science, 23(1), 12-28.\n\nMeleis, A.I. (1998). Revisions in knowledge development: A passion for substance. Scholarly Inquiry for Nursing Practice: An International Journal, 12(1), 65-77.\n\nMeleis, A.I. (1997). Immigrant transitions and health care: An action plan. Nursing Outlook, 45(1), p. 42.\nMeleis, A.I., Messias, D.K.H., & Arruda, E.N. (1996). Women's work environment and health: Clerical workers in Brazil. Research in Nursing and Health, 19, 53-62.\nMeleis, A.I. (1996). Culturally competent scholarship: Substance and rigor. Advances in Nursing Science, 19(2), 1-16.\n\nMeleis, A.I. Hall, J. M., & Stevens, P.E. (1994). Scholarly caring in doctoral nursing education: Promoting diversity and collaborative mentorship. Image: Journal of Nursing Scholarship, 26(3), 177-180.\n\nMeleis, A.I., & Trangenstein, P.A. (1994). Facilitating transitions: Redefinition of a nursing mission. Nursing Outlook, 42(6), 255-259.\n\n"}
{"id": "55330308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55330308", "title": "Anti-Hazing Act of 1995", "text": "Anti-Hazing Act of 1995\n\nThe Anti-Hazing Act of 1995, also known as Republic Act No. 8049 is a national legislation in the Philippines regulating the act of hazing and other initiation rites in fraternities and sororities in the country. It prohibits and penalizes physical harm and violence in such practices.\n\nThe Anti-Hazing Act was passed as a response to the death of Leonardo Villa in 1991. Villa died from multiple injuries when he underwent hazing rites by the Aquila Legis, a fraternity of law students at the Ateneo de Manila University. Two decades later in 2012, the Supreme Court of the Philippines found five members of the fraternity guilty of reckless imprudence resulting in homicide. The Anti-Hazing Act couldn't be applied to the five since it was still yet to be enacted as law when Villa died.\n\nBy 2017, only 1 conviction has been made under the Anti-Hazing Act which was in 2015 when two Alpha Phi Omega members were found guilty for the death of Marlon Villanueva, a University of the Philippines Los Baños student, in 2006\n\nBills to amend the Anti-Hazing Act has been passed in both the Upper and Lower House. In 2016, Majority leader Tito Sotto passed Senate Bill 223 which aims to impose the maximum penalty for violators under the influence of alcohol and illegal drugs as well as if a non-resident or alumni fraternity member present during the hazing rites.\n\nBoth Win Gatchalian's Senate Bill 199 and Bagong Henerasyon party-list representative Bernadette Herrera-Dy's House Bill 3467 seeks to ban all forms of hazing, only allowing initiation rites which do not inflict physical or psychological harm. Gatchalian's bill also proposes to impose stiffer penalties and fine to non-resident and intoxicated members involved in hazing, additional fine if hazing results to death, mutilation, rape, and sodomy,\nand requiring schools to conduct awareness campaign on hazing.\n\n"}
{"id": "9278373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9278373", "title": "Apex Learning", "text": "Apex Learning\n\nApex Learning, Inc. is a privately held provider of e-Learning solutions for K-12 education, offering online courses in mathematics, science, English studies, social studies, Romance languages, the fine arts, health and physical education, and Advanced Placement. Headquartered in Seattle, Apex Learning is accredited by AdvancEd and its courses are approved for National Collegiate Athletic Association eligibility.\n\nMicrosoft co-founder Paul Allen founded Apex Learning in 1997 to apply online courses and test prep to K-12 material. The company initially focused on Advanced Placement courses and test prep. Within one year of operation, 200 students used the Apex platform.\n\nApex Learning raised $37 million in venture capital. In 2002, Cheryl Vedoe founder of Tenth Planet and VP of Education Marketing at Apple Inc., became CEO of Apex. That same year, it acquired Beyond Books. Apex Learning acquired Boxer Math in 2003. In 2006, Apex had a $6 million round of venture capital financing led by MK Capital.\n\nDuring the most recent school year, there were more than 3.6 million enrollments in Apex Learning digital curriculum. In May 2017, Apex Learning was acquired by Education Growth Partners, however the terms were not disclosed. The following August, Apex Learning released Tutorials for the General Education Development (GED), High School Equivalency Test (HiSET) and the Test Assessing Secondary Completion (TASC) exams.\n\nApex Learning develops digital learning solutions to support teachers and promote student growth. Apex Learning has produced online courses that meet high school graduation requirement. Apex Learning Comprehensive Courses include core subjects, world languages, advanced placement, CTE and electives. Apex Learning Adaptive Tutorials provides personalized learning to address course pass rates and exam scores, offering intervention, remediation and unit recovery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42444095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42444095", "title": "Armenian Environmental Network", "text": "Armenian Environmental Network\n\nArmenian Environmental Network (AEN), a project of Earth Island Institute (EII), is a non-profit organization headquartered in Washington, D.C. United States, with an office in Yerevan, Armenia. AEN was founded in 2007 as a response to a lack of environmental information available to Armenians in the Diaspora on environmental problems in Armenia.\n\nThe Founder, Ursula Kazarian, and the Executive Director, Serda Ozbenian, are based in the United States. The Armenia office includes Armine Sargsyan, Armenia Office Director, and Armenuhi Nikoghosyan, Project Manager.\n\nAEN serves a dual mission to: (1) Increase information sharing and distribution among Armenians in Armenia, the Armenian Diaspora and the wider conservation community; and (2) Facilitate partnerships through the responsible involvement of Diasporan and international resources to promote sustainable development in Armenia. This way, AEN is active in environmental problems in Armenia, and also creates a dialogue between Armenia and the Diaspora.\n\nIn Armenia, AEN focuses on waste management through project implementation and education programs. The Vardenis Environmental Education Initiative (VEEI), part of AEN's Waste Management Program, was implemented with the goal of bringing environmental education into the classroom. Teachers of the Vardenis sub-region were trained on teaching methodologies, basic ecology, and waste management using the AEN Teacher's Guide, specifically developed for use in rural Armenia. Other projects include constructing Armenia's first modern landfill in the city of Berd. AEN also holds Youth Forums, which are designed to inform Armenia's youth from regions outside of Yerevan on environmental issues.\n\nIn the United States, AEN is working to expand its activities in cities with strong Armenian-American communities, with the hope to one day also expand to other Diasporan communities outside the U.S. AEN has organized environmental panel discussions in the U.S. since 2007, with topics ranging from deforestation and illegal logging to public health, water and sanitation, energy security, and the role of transparency in environmental work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6536036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6536036", "title": "Association of University Administrators", "text": "Association of University Administrators\n\nThe Association of University Administrators (AUA) is the professional body for higher education administrators and managers in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. The AUA exists to advance and promote the professional recognition and development of all who work in professional services roles in higher education, and to be an authoritative advocate and champion for the sector.\n\nThe AUA was formed from a merger of the Association of Polytechnic Administrators (APA) and the Conference of University Administrators (CUA). CUA traced its history back to the Meeting of University Academic Administrative Staff, founded in 1961. The AUA celebrated the golden jubilee of the professionalisation of support staff in UK universities in 2011.\n\nAUA members are individually and collectively committed to:\n\nThe AUA's annual conference is the largest professional development conference in the UK HE calendar, with plenary and keynote presentations and around 100 working sessions. The 2011 Conference (in The AUA's Golden Jubilee Year) was held at the University of Nottingham 18–20 April 2011. The 2016 Conference was held in Leeds, at the Royal Armouries Museum, 21–23 March 2016. The conference returns to Manchester from 10–11 April 2017 for the start of a three-year residency.\n\nThe AUA provides professional development opportunities for university managers and administrators in the higher education sector. It provides opportunities to help members identify and meet their professional development needs through information services, events and conferences. The AUA organises an annual programme of seminars, workshops and conferences.\n\nThe AUA has developed the Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Framework to support the continuous professional development of all professional services staff working in the sector. The project was a culmination of a highly collaborative 2 year Leadership, Governance and Management (LGM) project, and was jointly funded by AUA, HEFCE, LFHE and the HEA. The Framework is a significant milestone in the development of the profession of HE management and administration.\n\nSince the Framework was formally launched at the AUA Conference and Exhibition 2009, The AUA has been working on plans to support implementation projects across the sector. By working with a small number of pre-pilot early adopting partners The AUA has established the extent to which the Framework can be adapted to a wide variety of organisational context.\n\nThe full CPD Framework document and supporting online resources are available for use by staff in HE.\n\nThe AUA Postgraduate Certificate in Professional Practice is a portfolio-based scheme validated by the Nottingham Trent University. Achievement of the award demonstrates a knowledge of key areas within the HE sector, transferable skills and evidence of the 'professional journey' undertaken.\n\nThe AUA has established a number of themed networks which allow members with similar interests to share good practice and develop their understanding of specific areas of HE policy and practice.\n\nThe AUA also have a number of established working groups which meet together to organise events or discuss key issues and exchange best practice, including the Planning Forum and the Equality Advisory Group.\n\nThe AUA has strong links with similar organisations and individuals worldwide. Members can also apply for Travel Awards of up £1,000 to undertake small research visits to countries outside of the UK and Ireland. In addition, The AUA organises an annual Study Tour, which involves a group of ten members of The AUA undertaking a two-week fact finding visit. Recent Study Tours have visited New Zealand, India, Brazil, and Japan. These and other international activities are organised by the International Higher Education Network, one of the specialist themed networks within The AUA, and co-funded by AHUA.\n\nMembers receive free of charge The AUA's quarterly journal, Perspectives; quarterly newsletter, Newslink, and each new title in the Good Practice Guide series.\n\nThe AUA's online services include a number of email discussion groups: aua-news, for electronic bulletins including weekly press digest and fortnightly professional development bulletin; and aua-forum, email list for sharing information and best practice. The AUA also has Jisc mailing lists, JISCmail, to aid communication within sub-groups of the organisation (e.g. aua-bc, aua-pgcert) and for special interest groups (e.g. aua-deptadmin). It has an online jobs noticeboard.\n\nThe senior official within AUA is the Chair of the Board of Trustees.\n\nKathryn Fowler 2016-2018\n\nTessa Harrison 2014-2016<br>\nMatthew Andrews 2012-2014<br>\nChristopher Hallas 2010-2012<br> \nMaureen Skinner 2008-2010<br> \nBruce Nelson 2006-2008<br> \nSue Holmes 2004-2006<br> \nJohn Ryan 2002-2004<br> \nAlison Johns 2000-2002<br> \nDavid Allen 1998-2000<br> \nKeith Jones 1996-1998<br> \nSally Neocosmos 1994-1996\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2003261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2003261", "title": "CCNP", "text": "CCNP\n\nA Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) is someone in the IT industry who has achieved a professional level of Cisco career certification, which is a type of IT professional certification created by Cisco Systems, best for Network Operations Specialist, Network administrators & engineers.\n\nThere are eight areas of the professional Certifications. It is designed for the requirement of the IT industries. \n\n\nTo apply for the CCNP exam, Entry-level Cisco certifications need to be passed in advance. \n\n"}
{"id": "4159552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4159552", "title": "Carl Steenstrup", "text": "Carl Steenstrup\n\nCarl Steenstrup (born 1934 in Vaasa, Finland; died November 11, 2014, in Berlin, Germany) was a Danish japanologist.\n\nCarl Steenstrup is known for translating several works of Japanese literature, mostly those relating to the historical development of Bushido, Japanese Feudal Law, and the Kakun (House Codes) of famous Samurai Leaders Hōjō Shigetoki and Imagawa Ryoshun. Steenstrup's dissertation at Harvard University was entitled \"Hôjô Shigetoki (1198–1261) and his Role in the History of Political and Ethical Ideas in Japan\".\n\nHe was a civil servant for the Danish Government from 1952 to 1985 and Professor of Japanese History at Munich University (1985 to 2000). From 1971 to 1972 he was a lecturer in Nordic languages for Tōkai University in Tokyo, Japan. After his retirement, he lectured at Humboldt University in Berlin, and the Government Academy of Law and Economics in Irkutsk.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16522635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16522635", "title": "Chimie ParisTech", "text": "Chimie ParisTech\n\nChimie ParisTech (officially École nationale supérieure de chimie de Paris (\"National Chemical Engineering Institute in Paris\"), also known as ENSCP or Chimie Paris), founded in 1896 within the University of Paris, is an engineering school and a constituent college of PSL Research University specialised in chemical science. It is located in the 5th arrondissement of Paris.\n\nThe students enter the school after highly competitive exams known as the \"\", following at least two years of \"classes préparatoires\". The school is known as France's most selective chemical engineering college \n\nThe school is a research center hosting ten laboratories which conduct high level research in various fields of chemistry.\n\nThe École nationale supérieure de chimie de Paris was founded in 1896 by Charles Friedel, a chemist and mineralogist who headed the school until 1899. At the time, the school was called the Laboratoire de chimie pratique et industrielle. It was located in the 6th arrondissement (rue Michelet), where it stayed until 1923.\n\nAfter the death of Friedel, Henri Moissan took the reins of the school. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for chemistry in 1906, while he was director. Moissan made student admission subject to competitive exams and renamed the school Institut de chimie appliquée (Institute of Applied Chemistry).\n\nIn 1907, the school began delivering a prestigious masters of engineering. In the same year, Moissan died and a transitional directorate was created. Soon thereafter, Camille Chabrié was named director. The school closed when World War I started and reopened in 1916. This was also the first year a female student was admitted; the ENSCP was one of the first engineering schools in France to do so.\n\nIn 1923, the school moved to its current location, on the rue Pierre et Marie Curie (in the 5th arrondissement). The buildings were designed and built by Henri-Paul Nénot, architect of the Sorbonne. In 1932, the school became l'Institut de Chimie de Paris (Paris Institute of Chemistry). Finally, in 1948, it became the École nationale supérieure de chimie de Paris (ENSCP).\n\n\nNotable research units includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41345814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41345814", "title": "Collège Royal (Rabat)", "text": "Collège Royal (Rabat)\n\nThe Collège Royal is an education establishment located inside the royal palace in Rabat. Since its foundation in 1942, it specializes in the education of princes and princesses of the Alaouite dynasty.\n\nThe Collège Royal was created in 1942 by Mohammed V under the French protectorate. This came after, the monarch initially tried to send his son Hassan II to the Ecole des Roches in France but couldn't because of World War II. The school opens a class for each senior member of the Alaouite Royal family. It previously opened classes for Hassan II, Mohammed VI, Prince Moulay Rachid, Moulay Hassan, Crown Prince of Morocco, the daughters of Hassan II, Prince Moulay Ismail and Lalla Soukaina.\n\nSome of the attendees:\n\nThe class was opened officially in 1973.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> joined in 1977\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9693869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9693869", "title": "Council for At-Risk Academics", "text": "Council for At-Risk Academics\n\nThe Council for At-Risk Academics (CARA) is a charitable British organisation dedicated to assisting academics in immediate danger, those forced into exile, and many who choose to remain in their home countries despite the serious risks they face. Cara also supports higher education institutions whose continuing work is at risk or compromised. Cara offers academics support to continue their studies either by financially and logistically assisting scholars relocate to higher education institutions abroad or by assisting academics in their country of origin.\n\nThe organisation was founded in 1933 as the Academic Assistance Council (AAC), to assist academics who were forced to flee the Nazi regime. In 1936 it was consolidated and renamed the Society for the Protection of Science and Learning (SPSL). In 1999 it was renamed the Council for Assisting Refugee Academics (CARA). It changed to its current name in 2014. The charity is currently based on the premises of London Southbank University and continues to provide support to academics in danger.\n\nThe Academic Assistance Council (AAC) was founded in April 1933 by William Beveridge. Whilst en route to Vienna he learnt of the dismissal of a number of leading professors from German universities on racial and/or political grounds and was moved to launch a ‘rescue operation’ for the increasing numbers of displaced academics. On his return to Britain Beveridge set about enlisting the support of prominent academics.\n\nBy May 22, 1933, a founding statement had been produced and it was circulated amongst British universities, politicians and philanthropists. This initial rallying call focused on the need for practical support, assistance escaping persecution and relocating in British universities, and deliberately avoided making any sort of political comment.\n\nThe council was formed of 41 men and women active in British intellectual activities, and had as assistant secretary, the \"redoubtable\" Esther Simpson, with office accommodation provided by The Royal Society. The Nobel Prize-winning chemist and physicist Lord Rutherford was chosen as the first President. A.V. Hill, another Nobel Prize-winning scientist, and also Cambridge University MP, became Vice-President.The council included J. S. Haldane and Sir Frederick Gowland Hopkins, Lord Rayleigh, Sir William Henry Bragg.\n\nIn October 1933 ten thousand people attended an event at the Albert Hall organised by several organisations including the AAC. Albert Einstein, in his last major public address in Europe before his departure for the United State, spoke on the importance of Academic Freedom. In his address Einstein encouraged his audience to \"resist the powers which threaten to suppress intellectual and individual freedom\" and spoke of our duty to \"care for what is eternal and highest amongst our possessions\".\n\nIn 1936 the AAC changed its name to the Society for Protection of Science and Learning (SPSL). This change reflected the ideological development of the role of the organisation: from assisting individual academics, to the protection of academic freedom itself. Thousands of academics were helped by SPSL in the 1930s and 1940s. Sixteen academics assisted became Nobel Laureates, eighteen were knighted and over a hundred were elected as Fellows of the British Academy or the Royal Society. Notably Ludwig Guttmann went on to found the Paralympics; Max Born was a pioneer of quantum mechanics and one of the most prominent physicists to oppose the development of nuclear weapons; and Ernst Chain would be instrumental in the discovery of penicillin.\n\nThe SPSL’s work continued past the end of the Second World War. Beveridge would later explain in his \"A Defence of Free Learning\" (1959) how \"although Hitler was dead, intolerance was not\" and \"continued needs and the possible future crises\" rendered the Society’s services as necessary as ever, in Europe and across the world.\n\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, the SPSL helped many academics seeking refuge from the Stalinist regimes in the USSR and Eastern Europe. As time passed, the SPSL’s focus expanded, to include, among others, those fleeing the apartheid regime in South Africa and juntas in Chile and Argentina. One of the most prominent South African exiles, whom the SPSL helped in 1966 and again in 1988, was the anti-apartheid leader Albie Sachs, later a Justice in the South African Constitutional Court under Nelson Mandela. Sachs describes the \"immense moral and emotional comfort\" which SPSL’s assistance provided and he continues to be a supporter of the charity.\n\nSince the 1990s SPSL’s focus has shifted to the Middle East, particularly Iraq and Iran, and to troubled regions of Africa. In 1999 SPSL was renamed Council for Assisting Refugee Academics (Cara). In 2014 Cara was renamed again, but retained its acronym, becoming the Council for At-Risk Academics. This change reflected the fact that Cara helps many who are at great risk but do not see themselves as ‘refugees’, and instead still hope to return to their home countries when conditions allow.\n\nAmongst the 1,500 academics assisted in the early years, sixteen went on to win Nobel Prizes, eighteen received Knighthoods, well over a hundred were elected as Fellows of the Royal Society and of the British Academy, and many more became leaders in their respective fields.\n\n\nCara has a Council of Management of twenty-five, recruited predominantly from the world of academia. The Council of Management meets twice annually whilst the Council’s Finance & General Purposes Committee meets at least quarterly.\n\nProfessor Sir Malcolm Grant CBE is the President of Cara. Anne Lonsdale is Chair of the Council and Professor Sir Deian Hopkin is Vice-Chair. The Executive Director, Stephen Wordsworth, is charged with the day-to-day management of Cara and its staff.\n\nCara runs several programmes.\n\nThe Fellowship Programme supports academics, often in immediate danger, to continue their work in safety. Cara works closely with the 112 universities in the Cara Scholars at Risk UK Universities Network, as well as other institutions in the UK and abroad, to secure placements for academics. Cara checks the applicants’ background, qualifications and references and negotiates the details of the higher education placement. Fee waivers and financial and in-kind support are secured by Cara, whilst any additional funding needed is allocated from the organisation's own resources. Cara assists in obtaining the appropriate visas for both the academic and, often, their families as well.\n\nMany of the academics supported by Cara are committed to returning to their home country to rebuild their societies when conditions allow, employing the skills and connections they have obtained during their international academic placement. Cara also supports academics unable to return home because of continuing dangers by offering employment advice alongside training and education opportunities that enable academics to rebuild their careers in the UK.\n\nCara’s Country Programmes provide support to academics who are either working on in their country despite the risks or who have been forced into exile in the surrounding region.\n\nThe Iraq Programme was launched in late 2006 in response to a targeted campaign of assassination and kidnap. Over 350 Iraqi academics were murdered between 2003 and 2012, with thousands driven into exile or internally displaced. At the height of the Iraq Programme, over 75 academics from 16 UK universities and 11 Iraqi universities collaborated on research of direct relevance to Iraq. Research focused on issues as diverse as: the impact of depleted uranium-contaminated soils; bias in primary/secondary school curricula and texts; the development of child mental capacities in the absence of existing services; use of mobile phone technologies to enhance public health services; and the status of female academics post-2003. Cara's Iraq Programme sought to ensure skills and expertise in Iraq and the wider region were developed rather than lost.\n\nThe Zimbabwe Programme was launched in 2009 in response to a marked increase in the number of academics fleeing Zimbabwe, amid reports of a dramatic decline in the quality of higher education. The Programme offered grants and fellowships to pay for vital equipment and supplies, and in 2012 established a ‘Virtual Lecture Hall’ at the University of Zimbabwe. This enabled Zimbabwean academics in exile and others to connect in real time with the colleges and faculties of health and veterinary sciences, to plug knowledge gaps, to improve standards of teaching and research and to facilitate increased networking and collaboration. In response to demand, a second, mobile, system was provided in October 2013. The equipment has been formally handed over to the University of Zimbabwe, and continues to be in regular use, providing a long-lasting legacy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20287991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20287991", "title": "Divergent question", "text": "Divergent question\n\nA divergent question is a question with no specific answer, but rather exercises one's ability to think broadly about a certain topic.\n\nPopular in inquiry education, divergent questions allow students to explore different avenues and create many different variations and alternative answers or scenarios. Correctness may be based on logical projections, may be contextual, or arrived at through basic knowledge, conjecture, inference, projection, creation, intuition, or imagination. These types of questions often require students to analyze, synthesize, or evaluate a knowledge base and then project or predict different outcomes.\n\nA simple example of a divergent question is:\n\n\"Write down as many different uses as you can think of for the following objects: (1) a brick, (2) a blanket.\"\n"}
{"id": "23718626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23718626", "title": "Dyad pedagogy", "text": "Dyad pedagogy\n\nDyad pedagogy is a goal-directed teaching method. Students are randomly assigned into dyads and work together on inquiry-type problems. The educational method was developed by Dr. Lloyd Sherman, a professor at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City during the 1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1179798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1179798", "title": "Education in Mexico", "text": "Education in Mexico\n\nEducation in Mexico has a long history. The Royal and Pontifical University of Mexico was founded by royal decree in 1551, a few months after the National University of San Marcos in Lima. By comparison, Harvard College, the oldest in Anglo-America, was founded in 1636. Education in Mexico was until relatively recently largely confined to elite males and under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Church in Mexico.\n\nThe Mexican state has been directly involved in education since the nineteenth century, promoting secular education. Control of education was a source of ongoing conflict between the Mexican state and the Roman Catholic Church, which since the colonial era had exclusive charge of education. The mid nineteenth-century Liberal Reform separated church and state, which had a direct impact on education. President Benito Juárez sought the expansion of public schools. During the lengthy tenure of president Porfirio Díaz, the expansion of education became a priority under a cabinet-level post held by Justo Sierra; Sierra also served President Francisco I. Madero in the early years of the Mexican Revolution.\n\nThe 1917 Constitution strengthened the Mexican state's power in education, undermining the power of the Roman Catholic Church to shape the educational development of Mexicans. During presidency of Álvaro Obregón in the early 1920s, his Minister of Public Education José Vasconcelos implemented a massive expansion of access to public, secular education. This work was built on and expanded in the administration of Plutarco Elías Calles by Moisés Sáenz. In the 1930s, the Mexican government under Lázaro Cárdenas mandated socialist education in Mexico and there was considerable push back from the Roman Catholic Church as an institution. Socialist education was repealed during the 1940s, with the administration of Manuel Ávila Camacho. A number of private universities have opened since the mid twentieth century.\n\nEducation in Mexico is currently regulated by the Secretariat of Public Education () (SEP). Education standards are set by this Ministry at all levels except in \"autonomous\" universities chartered by the government (e.g., Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México). Accreditation of private schools is accomplished by a mandatory approval and registration with this institution. Religious instruction is prohibited in public schools; however, religious associations are free to maintain private schools, which receive no public funds.\n\nIn the same fashion as other education systems, education has identifiable stages: Primary School, Junior High School (or Secondary School), High School, Higher education, and Postgraduate education.\n\nIn Mexico, basic education is normally divided in three steps: primary school (\"primaria\"), comprising grades 1-6; junior high school (\"secundaria\"), comprising grades 7-9; and high school (\"preparatoria\"), comprising grades 10-12.\n\nDepending on definitions, Primary education comprises \"primaria\" and \"secundaria\", which are compulsory by law, while Secondary education only includes \"preparatoria\", which was not compulsory a few years ago, but it has been made mandatory as well.\n\nThe terms \"Primary School\" or \"Elementary School\" usually corresponds to \"primaria\", comprising grades 1-6, when the student's age is 6 to 12 years old. It starts the basic compulsory education system. These are the first years of schooling.\n\nDepending on the school, a bilingual education may be offered from the beginning, where half the day instruction is in Spanish, and the rest is in a second language, for example, English or French.\n\nThe terms \"Junior High School\" or \"Middle School\" usually correspond to \"secundaria\", comprising grades 7-9 when the student's age is 12 to 15 years old it is part of the basic compulsory education system, it follows primary school, and comes before \"high school\" (\"preparatoria\").\n\nAt this level, more specialized subjects may be taught such as Physics, Chemistry, and World History.\nThere is also the \"técnica\" which provides vocational training, and the \"telesecundaria\" which provides distance learning.\n\nDespite the similarities of the words \"Secondary school\" and \"secundaria\", in Mexico the former is usually translated to \"preparatoria\", while in other countries, such as Puerto Rico, or within the Spanish-speaking populations of the United States, the term \"secundaria\" refers to university.\n\nThe terms \"High School\" usually corresponds to \"preparatoria\" or \"bachillerato\", and follow \"secundaria\" comprising grades 10-12, when the student's age is 15 to 18 years old. Students may choose between two main kinds of high school programs: The SEP incorporated, and a University Incorporated one, depending on the state. Other minority of programs are available only for private schools, such as the International Baccalaureate which carries a completely different system. Nevertheless, in order to be taught, it must include a national subject at least. In addition, there are programs such as \"tecnología\" and \"comercio\" that prepare students for a particular vocational career.\n\n\"Preparatoria\" traditionally consists of three years of education, divided into six semesters, with the first semesters having a common curriculum, and the latter ones allowing some degree of specialization, either in physical sciences (physics, chemistry, biology, etc.) or social sciences (commerce, philosophy, law, etc.). The term \"bachillerato\" is most commonly used for institutions that offer a three-year education program that \"prepares\" the student with general knowledge to continue studying at a university. In contrast, the term \"preparatioria\" is most often used for institutions that provide vocational training, in two or three years, so the graduate can get a job as a skilled worker, for example, an assistant accountant, a bilingual secretary or a technician. \n\nIn 1993, educational integration was formally implemented nationwide through the reform article 41 of the General Education Law. This law mandates the integration of students with special needs into regular classrooms. Although formally, the term ‘educational integration’ is used, ‘inclusive education’ is often used to describe the educational system. Implementation of educational integration has taken many years and still continues face obstacles. Under the current model, students with severe disabilities that would not benefit from inclusion, study the same curriculum as regular classrooms in separate schools called Centros de Atencion Multiple [Multiple Attention Center], or CAM. Otherwise, special needs students are placed in regular classrooms and are supported by the Unidades de Servicio y Apoyo a la Educación Regular or the Unit of Support Services for Regular Education, (USAER). This group is made up of special education teachers, speech therapists, psychologists and other professionals to help special needs students in the classroom and minimize barriers to their learning. \n\nThe combination of USAER professionals and regular teaching working in the same classroom has caused some issues for educational integration. Specifically, there is confusion about the roles of USAER professionals who work in regular classrooms. A study of USAER members found that regardless of urban or rural contexts, professionals had four common concerns. First, USAER professionals felt that they lacked preparation for working in the classroom. The second issue was feeling like their role had changed due to more demands being placed on them. The last two concerns were the lack of communication and collaboration between teachers and USAER professionals. Although the two work in the same classroom, they often work independently. However this creates problems when adjusting the curriculum for special needs students.\n\nAccessibility is another challenge for educational integration. Schools are required to have accessible buildings and classrooms, provide technical support and appropriate materials for special needs students. However, implementation of these features is inconsistent across schools. A case study of a student with visual impairment revealed that the school did not provide her with braille textbooks and her mother had to teach her the material. A similar case study found that the school was not equipped for students with sensory disabilities. The school lacked accessible furniture, handicapped restrooms or proper modification for students with sensory disabilities. \n\nFinally, training for new teachers doesn’t provide them enough experience with special needs students, making the shift to educational integration difficult. A study of 286 pre-service teachers found that a third of didn’t have any experience working with special needs students. Additionally, 44% of the teachers reported having no formal training in working with this population. A qualitative study on pre-service teachers assessed their attitude towards special needs students and their self efficacy found that overall most teachers have positive perceptions of inclusive education. However, teachers with more hours of training, more experience, and better knowledge of policies had higher levels of confidence in working with students with disabilities.\n\nIn recent years, the progression through Mexican education has come under much criticism. While over 90% of children in Mexico attend primary school, only 62% attend secondary school (\"secundaria\"). Only 45% finish high school (\"preparatoria\"). After secondary school, only a quarter pass on to higher education. A commonly cited reason for this is the lack of infrastructure throughout the rural schools. Moreover, the government has been criticized for paying teachers too much and investing too little into the students. In its annual report on education, the OECD has placed at below average in mathematics, science, and reading.\n\nA program of education reform was enacted in February 2013 which provided for a shift in control of the education system from the teachers union SNTE and its political boss, Elba Esther Gordillo, to the central and state governments. Education in Mexico had been controlled by the teachers union and its leaders for many years. Shortly thereafter Gordillo was arrested on racketeering charges. As of 2016 the government continued to struggle with the union and its offshoot, CNTE.\n\nThere are both public and private institutions of higher education. Higher education usually follows the US education model with an at least 4-year bachelor's degree undergraduate level (\"Licenciatura\"), and two degrees at the postgraduate level, a 2-year Master's degree (\"Maestría\"), and a 3-year Doctoral degree (\"Doctorado\"), followed by the higher doctorate of Doctor of Sciences (\"Doctor en Ciencias\"). \nThis structure of education very closely conforms to the Bologna Process started in Europe in 1999, allowing Mexican students to study abroad and pursue a master's degree after \"Licenciatura\", or a Doctoral degree after \"Maestría\". \n\nUnlike other OECD countries, the majority of Mexico's public universities do not accredit part-time enrollment programs.\n\nUndergraduate studies normally last at least 4 years, divided into semesters or quarters, depending on the college or university, and lead to a bachelor's degree (\"Licenciatura\"). According to OECD reports, 23% of Mexicans aged 23–35 have a college degree.\n\nAlthough in theory every graduate of a \"Licenciatura\" is a Licenciate (\"Licenciado\", abbreviated \"Lic.\") of his or her profession, it is common to use different titles for common professions such as Engineering and Architecture.\n\nNew regulations since 2005 divide postgraduate studies at Mexican universities and research centers in two main categories:\nTargeted at scientific research\n\nIntercultural Universities in Mexico were established in 2004 in response to the lack of enrollment of the indigenous population in the country. While an estimated 10% of the population of Mexico is indigenous, it is the least represented in higher education. According to estimates, only between 1% and 3% of higher education enrollment in Mexico is indigenous. In response to this inequality, the General Coordination for Intercultural and Bilingual Education at the Ministry of Education established Intercultural Universities with the active participation of indigenous organizations and academic institutions in each region.\n\nThe table below describes the most common patterns for schooling in the state sector:\n\nAs of January 2015, the International Schools Consultancy (ISC) listed Mexico as having 151 international schools. ISC defines an 'international school' in the following terms \"ISC includes an international school if the school delivers a curriculum to any combination of pre-school, primary or secondary students, wholly or partly in English outside an English-speaking country, or if a school in a country where English is one of the official languages, offers an English-medium curriculum other than the country’s national curriculum and is international in its orientation.\" This definition is used by publications including The Economist.\n\nIn central Mexico, the history of education stretches back to the prehispanic era, with the education of Nahuas in schools for elites and commoners. A formal system of writing was created in various parts of central and southern Mexico, with trained experts in its practice. After the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, friars embarked on a widespread program of evangelization of Christianity. In the colonial era, schooling of elite men of European descent was established under the auspices of the Catholic Church. Liberals' attempts to separate church and state in post-independence Mexico included removal of the Catholic Church from education. Education remains an important aspect of Mexican institutional and cultural life, and conflicts continue about how it should be conducted. The history of education in Mexico gives insight into the larger history of the nation.\n\nIn central Mexico in the cultural area known as Mesoamerica, the Aztecs set up schools called calmecac for the training of warriors and schools for the training of priests, called \"cuicacalli\". An early post-conquest manuscript prepared by native scribes for the viceroy of Mexico, Codex Mendoza shows these two types of schools. Aztec religion was highly complex and priests held a higher status, so that the creation of schools to train them in ritual and other aspects of religion was important. Overseeing an expansionist empire, Aztec rulers needed trained warriors, so that the creation of formal schools for their training was as important.\n\nThe Spanish Crown made a significant commitment to education in colonial New Spain. The first efforts of schooling in Mexico were friars’ evangelization of indigenous populations. “Educating the native population was a crucial justification of the colonizing enterprise, and that \"criollo\" (Spanish American) culture was encouraged as a vehicle for integrating” the indigenous. Fray Pedro de Gante established schools for indigenous in the immediate post-conquest years and produced pictorial texts to teach Catholic doctrine. All the mendicant orders in Mexico, the Franciscans, Dominicans, and Augustinians, built churches in large indigenous communities as places of worship and to teach the catechism, so that large outdoor atriums functioned as classrooms. Elite indigenous lads were tapped for training as catechists and helpers to the priests, whose small numbers could in no way minister to large numbers of ordinary indigenous.\n\nIn 1536, the Franciscans and the Spanish crown established a school to train an indigenous Catholic priesthood, the Colegio de Santa Cruz de Tlatelolco, which was deemed a failure in its goal of training priests, but did create a small cohort of indigenous men who were literate in their native language of Nahuatl, as well as Spanish and Latin. The Franciscans also founded the school of San José de los Naturales in Mexico City, which taught trades and crafts to boys. The Colegio de San Gregorio was also founded for the education of indigenous elites, the most famous of whom was Chimalpahin, (also known as Don Domingo Francisco de San Antón Muñón Chimalpahin Quauhtlehuanitzin).\n\nReligious orders, particularly the Franciscans, taught indigenous scribes in central Mexico to be literate in their own languages, allowing the creation of documents at the local level for colonial officials and communities to enable crown administration as well as production of last will and testaments, petitions to the crown, bills of sale, censuses and other types of legal record to be produced at the local level. The large number of indigenous language documents found in the archives in Mexico and elsewhere have enabled scholars of the New Philology to analyze life of Mexico’s colonial-era indigenous from indigenous perspectives.\n\nThe Royal and Pontifical University of Mexico was founded in September 1551 at the request by Mexico’s first viceroy, Don Antonio de Mendoza to the Spanish crown. The university was located in the central core (\"traza\") of History of Mexico City. Its first rector, Francisco Cervantes de Salazar, wrote an account of the university. The institution initially trained in priests, lawyers, and starting in 1579, medical doctors. These were the traditional disciplines of the medieval and early modern eras. The Royal and Pontifical University was the sole institution that could confer academic degrees. With the title of royal and pontifical university, its degrees were titled the same as European degrees. The Jesuits arrived in Mexico in 1571 and rapidly founded schools and colegios, and sought to confer degrees; however, the Council of the Indies, the royal entity overseeing the Spanish overseas empire, decided against them.\n\nThe university retained its premier position. One of its best known graduates was Don Carlos de Sigüenza y Góngora, a Mexican savant of the seventeenth century, who was a friend of Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz, a cloistered nun and intellectual, famous in her lifetime as the “Tenth Muse.” Sor Juana was barred from attending the university due to her gender.\nIn general, educational institutions were urban-based, with the capital Mexico City having the largest concentration. However, there were seminaries to train priests in provincial cities, such as the Colegio de San Nicolás, founded by Bishop Vasco de Quiroga in the city now called Morelia. Insurgent leader Father Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla served as rector there until he was relieved of his position. One of his students was insurgent leader Father José María Morelos. Educated priests were prominent in the movement toward independence from Spain.\n\nMost of the Mexican population was illiterate and entirely unschooled, and there was no priority for education of girls. A few girls in cities attended schools run by cloistered nuns. Some entered convent schools at around age eight, “to remain cloistered for the rest of their lives.” There were some schools connected to orphanages or confraternities. Private tutors educated girls from wealthy families, but only enough so that they could oversee a household. There were few opportunities for mixed race boys or girls. “Education was, in short, highly selective as befits a stratified society, and the possibilities of self-realization were a lottery of birth rather than talent.”\n\nWhen Antonio López de Santa Anna put his Liberal vice president Valentín Gómez Farías in charge of running the government, the vice president created in 1833 a public education system. This preceded the establishment of a Ministry of Public Education. This reform was short lived, but with the Liberal Reform in the mid-nineteenth century, a normal school for teacher training was established. The Liberals push for public education awaited the end of the War of the Reform and the ousting of the French Empire in Mexico (1862–67). The restored republic of President Benito Juárez reaffirmed the liberal principles separation of church and state, which in the educational sphere meant supplanting the Catholic Church by the Mexican state. Primary education in Mexico was henceforth to be secular, free of fees and tuition, and obligatory.\n\nA key figure in higher education in Mexico was Gabino Barreda, who chaired Juárez's commission on education in 1867. Barreda was a follower of French intellectual Auguste Comte who established positivism the dominant philosophical school in the late nineteenth century. The Juárez government created a system of secondary education, and a key institution was the National Preparatory School (Escuela Nacional Preparatoria), founded in 1868 in Mexico City, which Barreda directed. Education at the Preparatoria was uniform for all students and \"designed to fill what José Díaz Covarrubias identified as the traditional void between primary and professional training.\"\n\nIn 1910, the government of Porfirio Díaz under the minister of education Justo Sierra established the secular, state-controlled Universidad Nacional de México. The Pontifical University of Mexico under religious authority was suppressed in 1865.\n\nThe government expanded normal schools after the Mexican Revolution of 1910.\n\nThe 1960 national census illustrates the historically poor performance of the Mexican educational system. The 1960 census found that as to all Mexicans over the age of five, 43.7% had not completed one year of school, 50.7% had completed six years or less of school, and only 5.6% had continued their education beyond six years of school.\n\nIn 1950, Mexico had only three million students enrolled in education. Today, there are 32 million enrolled students.\n\nIn 2012, some teachers from rural areas, specifically, from Michoacan and Guerrero states, opposed federal regulations which prevented them from automatic lifetime tenure, the ability to sell or will their jobs, and the teaching of either English or computer skills.\n\nIn 2015, 96.2% of six to fourteen year-olds attended school, up from 91.3% in 2000. The state with the highest attendance rate was Hidalgo (97.8%) and the state with the lowest attendance rate was Chiapas (93%). In the same year, 63% of three to five year-olds attended preschool or kindergarten, up from 52.3% in 2010. Also in 2015, 44% of 15 to 24 year-olds attended secondary or tertiary school, an increase from 32.8% in 2000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "989586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=989586", "title": "Floor hockey", "text": "Floor hockey\n\nFloor hockey is a family of indoor hockey games. 5 variations exist: three variations in the style of ice hockey, and the other two in the style of bandy, one of which is called floorball in English speaking regions.\nTwo of these variations involve the use of wheeled skates and are categorized as roller sports under the title of roller hockey. Quad hockey uses quad skates and looks similar to bandy, while inline hockey uses inline skates and is of the ice hockey variation.\nAll styles and codes are played on dry, flat floor surfaces such as a gymnasium or basketball court. As in other hockey codes, players on each team attempt to shoot a ball or puck into a goal using sticks, usually with a\ncurved end.\nFloor hockey games differ from street hockey in that the games are more structured, and two use wheeled skates. The variations which do not involve wheeled skates are sometimes used for training children to play ice hockey and bandy in a training format known as dryland training.\n\nFloor hockey codes derived from ice hockey were first officially played in Montreal, Quebec, Canada in 1875, but the game's official creation is credited to Canada's Sports Hall of Fame inductee, Samuel Perry Jacks, better known as \"Sam Jacks\". Jacks is the individual credited with both the creation of the official skateless game derived from ice hockey and codifying its first set of rules in 1936. At the time, Jacks was working as assistant physical director at the West End YMCA in Toronto. His achievement was later recognized by the United Nations.\n\nFloor hockey is a physical fitness sport in many public schools for physical education class.\n\nA version of ringette was introduced as a sport in the Winter Special Olympics in 1932. In 1970, the Special Olympics added team floor hockey as an event, with the distinction of it being the only team sport under its purview.\n\nThe Canadian Ball Hockey Association (CBHA) was formed in 1991 to provide more formal leagues of ball-based floor hockey. The CBHA runs leagues for men, women, and juniors, and organizes National Championships for each division.\n\nIn 2003, the National Intramural-Recreational Sports Association Hockey Committee released a baseline set of rules for intramural floor hockey for college campuses across the United States.\n\nFloor hockey equipment differs between each code. Some codes use an indoor puck, a ring made of felt or other material ( Gym Ringette ) while others use a lightweight plastic ball, or a heavier ball. Some codes require standard ice hockey, field hockey or bandy sticks, while others use lightweight plastic. In gym ringette plastic bladeless sticks are used while the Special Olympics version of floor hockey uses wooden ones. The types of checking and protective equipment allowed also vary.\n\nOne variation, especially popular in Europe, is floorball. Floorball uses a lightweight plastic ball and sticks made of plastic and carbon fiber. Limited checking is permitted.\n\nAnother variation, cosom hockey, uses plastic sticks and pucks, while gym ringette uses circular rings and sticks with no blade.\n\nPower hockey is a floor hockey game similar to floorball that has been designed for players using electric wheelchairs.\nKnee pads are required for the goal keeper\n\nAlthough floor hockey is made up of several different codes, there are some basic rules which are typically followed regardless of code.\n\nWith the exception of gym ringette, games start with a face-off, where a player from each team have an equal chance to gain possession. The face-off is also used to resume play after goals, and to start each period.\n\nA goal is scored when the entire puck or ball crosses the plane of the goal line, unless it is intentionally kicked in by the attacking team.\n\nThe team with the most goals at the end of the game is declared the winner. If the game is tied, the games usually proceed into overtime in order to determine a winner. Overtime rules vary, but typically include extra time and/or penalty shootout.\n\nPenalties for illegal actions are enforced. A player committing a major infraction is required to sit out of the game for two minutes, resulting a power play, but a minor infraction may result in a free hit. Penalties are typically given for the following actions:\n\nDue to the limited padding worn by players, body checking is typically disallowed in floor hockey games, although shoulder-to-shoulder checking is allowed.\n"}
{"id": "50505138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50505138", "title": "Foot arch stretcher", "text": "Foot arch stretcher\n\nA foot arch stretcher (also known as a foot stretcher, arch stretcher, pointe stretcher, toe stretcher, or arch enhancer) is a device used in the fields of ballet, dance, gymnastics, cheerleading, and other athletics in order to stretch the arches of the foot. It is believed that regular use of a foot arch stretcher may increase flexibility in the arch, ankle, and metatarsal areas of the foot. A process necessary to avoid foot and ankle injury while participating in athletic activities.\n\nA foot arch stretcher generally consists of two components: a base and a foot sleeve.\n\nThe base is generally one to two feet long and is made of a rigid material. In general, either the full base or parts of the base are covered with foam or another soft material and overlaid with fabric. This manufacturing process is used to both hold the shape of the foot arch stretcher and to provide comfort for the areas of the leg and foot that will come into contact with the base while in use. Sometimes, additional padding is added to the area of the foot stretcher base that will come into contact with the heel of the foot. This additional padding is added for comfort because the heel area usually receives the most leverage and accompanying pressure during the stretching process.\n\nThe foot sleeve is attached to the front portion of the base and is usually made of sturdy fabric or elastic. The purpose of the foot sleeve is to hold the foot in place during the stretching process. \n\nWhile this combination of a base and foot sleeve is the standard composition of most foot arch stretchers, it is important to note that some foot arch stretcher models have different components and function in a completely different manner.\n\nFoot arch stretchers normally function through proper application of the law of physics by applying leverage as a mechanical advantage. \n\nFoot arch stretchers are generally used from a sitting position with the legs extended to the front. On most foot arch stretcher models, the user begins with a bent knee and places the front portion of the foot (including the toes) into the foot arch stretcher sleeve. Once the foot is secured in place, the user slides the foot arch stretcher forward along the floor while slowly straightening the leg. As the leg slides forward, leverage from the stretcher base increases while the foot sleeve keeps the toes in place. This, in effect, applies pressure and induces stretching of the muscles and tendons in the arch, ankle, and metatarsal areas. The straighter the leg becomes, the more intense the stretch will be.\n\nFoot arch stretchers are mainly used by ballet dancers (ballerinas) in order to aid the process of going \"en pointe\" or dancing on the tips of their toes. However, foot arch stretchers are also commonly used by all types of dancers (jazz dance, tap dance, modern dance, hip-hop dance, etc.) as well as gymnasts, cheerleaders, yoga practitioners, runners, swimmers, rowers, martial artists, ice skaters and other athletes looking for flexibility in the foot.\n\nThe commercial history of foot arch stretchers began around the turn of the 21st century. However, there are accounts of foot arch stretcher designs dating before that time.\n\nPrior to the invention of foot arch stretchers, dancers found creative ways to stretch their feet: usually placing their feet under pianos or couches, or having a partner manually force the stretch. It wasn't until the early 2000s that a few crafty dancers put their minds to work and came up with a solution. Between 2000 and 2001 foot arch stretchers first emerged in both the United States of America (with the Arch Genie) and in Europe (with the Ballet Footstretch). Since the creation and introduction of these foot arch stretchers to the market, there have been many imitation foot stretchers flooding the market.\n\nThe safety and efficacy of using foot arch stretchers has been called into question by many dance and healthcare specialists. Most of the controversy surrounds the idea that foot stretchers weaken the muscles and tendons by forcing them into \"pointe\" position for long periods of time. However, most of the same sources agree that foot arch stretchers can be a valuable addition to dance training when accompanied by strengthening exercises to build up the areas of the foot that are stretched.\n"}
{"id": "8837796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8837796", "title": "Friends of Clean Accounts", "text": "Friends of Clean Accounts\n\nFriends of Clean Accounts is a group of European politicians advocating and working towards \"clean accounts\" of the EU. By this they mean ordinary (i.e., proper) accounting and controlling, leading to efficient use of funds throughout the EU. An important part of this endeavor is transparent information and free access to it.\n\nThis group has been initiated by people of the EU-critical SOS Democracy, but comprises all those interested in its purpose – including proponents of the EU. Gabriele Stauner , member of the EU Parliament's Budget Control Committee, presides most of the group's meetings, organized by the group's speaker Jens-Peter Bonde and Chris Heaton-Harris.\n\nThe Friends of Clean Accounts also supports so called \"whistle-blowers\" in their fight against corruption within the EU institutions and EU projects. So they warred off the dismissal of Paul van Buitenen. Or invited the suspended Chief Auditor Marta Andreasen to the EU Parliament to present her analyses of the grave faults of EU accounts and ways to improvement. Or supported Hans-Martin Tillack – editor of \"Stern\", who also revealed the Eurostat scandal and with Andreas Oldag is a co-author of a book on the EU \"Spaceship Brussels\" \"(Raumschiff Brüssel)\" – in his rights as he was arrested by Belgian police at the request of the EU anti-fraud office OLAF.\n\nThey also made pressure on the Santer Commission to withdraw on March 19, 1999, collected signatures for the Motion of Censure against the Commission during spring of 2004 on the grounds of the Eurostat scandal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47091960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47091960", "title": "Giovan Antonio Rusconi", "text": "Giovan Antonio Rusconi\n\nGiovan Antonio Rusconi (c. 1500-05; † 1578) was a Venetian architect, hydraulic engineer, translator and illustrator of Vitruvius.\n\nApart from being introduced into building and painting young Antonio Rusconi studied mathematics at the University of Padua under Giovanni Battista Memmo and Niccolò Tartaglia. Extensively consulting Vitruvius’ \"Ten Books on Architecture\" while he was constructing a novel type of watermill Antonio became aware of many grave technical errors within the work’s early Renaissance editions and commentaries. Finally Pietro Lauro, who had rendered Leon Battista Alberti’s “De Architectura” into the vernacular, convinced Rusconi to set out with a translation of his own. The text was finished until 1552 and illustrated with more than three hundred supplementary woodcuts. Earlier, Rusconi had already provided the illustrations for Lodovico Dolce’s version of the Ovidian “Metamorphoses”.\nYet, since then countless treatises on architecture and commentaries on Vitruvius (e.g. by Daniele Barbaro, Gicaomo Vignola and Andrea Palladio) were being published, Rusconi’s Venetian editors, and Tommaso Porcacchi, saw no benefit in printing another title on the subject.\nTogether with Palladio Rusconi draughted the \"Palazzo municipale\" (Brescia) in 1562, they also took part in rebuilding the Doge's Palace after the fire of 1577 and constructing the Palazzo Grimani. Nevertheless throughout his life Rusconi’s main occupation was that of a hydraulic engineer for the Republic of Venice. After having fallen gravely ill in 1575 Giovan Antonio died in 1579.\n\nRusconi’s “Vitruvius” was only printed after his death in 1590 by the son of his former editor . Although the latter recognised the value of Giovan Antonio’s xylographies he considered his translation and annotations as outdated, and thus a strange “Vitruvius without Vitruvius“ was published: Just about 160 of originally 300 woodcuts were compiled with extracts from Fra Giocondo’s and Cesariano’s translations of Vitruvius’ treatise. For many of Rusconi’s illustrations containing references to textual explanations, it is particularly regrettable that his translation has hence been lost.\n\n"}
{"id": "25896180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25896180", "title": "Hany Farid", "text": "Hany Farid\n\nHany Farid is a professor of computer science at Dartmouth College and former chair of Dartmouth's Neukom Institute for Computational Science. Farid specializes in image analysis, human perception, and has been called the \"father\" of digital image forensics by NOVA scienceNOW. The recipient of a 2006 Guggenheim Fellowship and a 2002 Sloan Fellowship for his work in the field, Farid has consulted for intelligence agencies, news organizations, courts, and scientific journals seeking to authenticate the validity of images. This is critically important because graphics programs, such as Photoshop, are frequently used to crop and to label figures in scientific publications. Such manipulations can be used to alter or disguise the data. In 2009, after digitally analyzing a photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald holding a rifle and newspaper, Farid published his findings concluding that \"the photo almost certainly was not altered\". When the 2012 World Press Photo of the Year was alleged as being \"fake\", Farid spoke out against the allegation and criticized its underlying method, error level analysis.\n\nHe received his B.S. in computer science and applied mathematics from the University of Rochester in 1989, his M.S. in computer science from SUNY/Albany in 1992, and his Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Pennsylvania in 1997.\n\nIn June 2016, Farid, as a Senior Advisor to the Counter Extremism Project (CEP), unveiled a software tool for use by Internet and social media companies to \"quickly find and eliminate extremist content used to spread and incite violence and attacks.\" It functions similarly to PhotoDNA, a system that uses robust hashing technology Farid worked on developing with Microsoft, which is \"now widely used by Internet companies to stop the spread of content showing sexual exploitation or pornography involving children.\" Farid has been a strong proponent for companies such as Twitter, Google, and Facebook to use this technology to make their platforms safer, and to act as a moral fiber for the content on their sites. \nTo operationalize this new technology to combat extremism, Farid and CEP proposed the creation of a National Office for Reporting Extremism (NORex), which would house a comprehensive database of extremist content and function similar to the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21587135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21587135", "title": "Heroic Military Academy (Mexico)", "text": "Heroic Military Academy (Mexico)\n\nThe Heroic Military College (officially in ) is the major military educational institution in Mexico. It was founded in 1823 and located in the former Palace of the Inquisition in Mexico City. Initially designated as the \"Cadet Academy\" it was renamed in 1823 as the \"Colegio Militar\". The College was relocated in Perote, Veracruz, before being returned to Mexico City where it was established in the Betlemitas monastery (today occupied by the Interactive Museum of the Economy and the Museum of the Mexican Army and Air Force). From 1835 the Military College was located in the Recogidas Building (destroyed by an earthquake in 1985). Cadets training for the Mexican Navy originally formed part of the student body but in 1897 the Military Naval School was established as a separate institution in Veracruz.\n\nThe Military College comes under the supervision of the Mexican Army and Air Force University and the Army Military Education General Directorate.\n\nAlthough plans for a military academy were proposed as early as 1818, it would be only in 1822 when such plans materialized, with the efforts of Diego Garcia Conde, the ex-Spanish military officer then serving in the Mexican Army, for such an academy to be formed were approved by the Mexican Imperial Government, through the Imperial War Ministry.\n\nIn the middle of the year, Emperor Agustin de Iturbide ordered that the Former Inquisition Palace Complex become the headquarters of the now newly founded Military College of Mexico, the Military Cadet Academy and the Engineers Training School, all under their first director, Brigadier Diego Garcia Conde. By the next year, through the orders of War Minister General Jose Joaquin de Herrera, the Military College of Mexico was relaunched as a separate academy with headquarters at San Carlos Fortress, in Perote, Veracruz state. In 1824, in compliance with an order from President Guadalupe Victoria, 18 cadets of the now called \"Perote Military College of Mexico\", through the permission of then college director Col. Juan Dominguez y Galvez, became the first cadets of the new \"Naval Aspirants College\" and the \"Tlacotalpan Nautical School\" trained to be the Mexican Navy's future ship officers. \n\nIn 1828, due to a campaign against secret societies and masonic lodges, Lt. Col. Manuel Montano's visit became the reason for the College's first loyalty act by the Corps of Cadets and its faculty, for their response to him was that the Military College should be exempted from the campaign due to the fact that no one in the College's cadet rosters were either secret society members nor Masons, and it turned into a national act of loyalty by the college cadets and faculty. As a result of this great deed, the College in March 1828 returned to Mexico City, first in the Bethelemitas convent and later in the Inquisition Palace Complex on July 1. By then, it began to be recognized by every Mexican as the nation's premier military educational institution.\n\nThe turmoil that sparked in the 1828 presidential elections took its toll on the College cadets. On September 11, a rebellion led by Generals Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna and Jose Maria Lobato denounced the election results ten days before, in which Manuel Gomez Pedraza emerged as the winner. Two months later, on November 30, they together with Lorenzo de Zavala and Col. Santiago Garcia staged a coup d'état that took over the La building demanding that the election results be voided by Congress. The same day, President Victoria called on the College cadets to proceed to the National Palace, and they fought on the side of the armed forces for 4 days until the fighting ended on December 4, with a compromise reached by both sides. Class would resume later the next day.\n\nPolitical turmoil broke out again in 1840. On July 13 of that year Gen. Jose Urrea bolted out of jail and led a rebellion against President Anastacio Bustamante, who was later imprisoned in the presidential residence. General Gabriel Valencia then ordered all troops loyal to the President to proceed at once to the city citadel. These included the cadets of the Military College under its then director Brigade General Pedro Conde, who was received by Gen. Valencia and sent a delegation of cadets to the citadel. The College delegation then moved to a church where they fought anti-Bustamante troops, which resulted in two wounded cadets (Juan Rico and Antonio Groso), the former would later die of his wounds sustained. On the 16th President Bustamante left his residence and Gen. Vicente Filisola arrived at the church premises. On that night, when an armistice was made, the attempted coup was already over.\n\nThe next year, it relocated to the Chalpultepec Castle in Mexico City. This castle would be, in 6 years time, during the Mexican War, a place where 5 cadets and an officer in the faculty died in defense of the Mexican nation, and it would gain the \"Heroic\" designation. After a few years, the College relocated to the Inquisition Palace and later to San Lucas.\n\nIn 1846, the College's only naval director, Graduate Ship Captain Francisco Garcia began his duties as College Commandant, a duty lasting until 1847. A sudden rebellion by the Corps of Cadets happened during his tenure.\n\nThe following year (1847), during the first term of Col. José Mariano Monterde Segura as commandant, the Mexican–American War reached Mexico City and the Military Academy. On September 11 cadets of the Academy were involved in fighting on the Condress Estate. On September 13 Chapultepec Castle and its surroundings became the site of the historic Battle of Chapultepec. Its Mexican Army defenders, under the leadership of Nicolás Bravo, former President and a veteran of the war of independence, included about 200 members of the Corps of Cadets, aged between 13 and 19. At the end of the battle five cadets - Juan Escutia (who reportedly leapt to his death wrapped in the Flag of Mexico), Agustin Melgar, Francisco Marquez, Fernando Montes de Oca, and Vicente Suárez; plus faculty member Lieutenant of Engineers Juan de la Barrera; all refused to retreat and died in a final stand as the \"young heroes\" of Academy legend. An unknown proportion of the other cadets became casualties or prisoners during the earlier stages of the battle.\n\nEach year on the anniversary of the battle, the sacrifice of the five Niños Héroes of the Military Academy is remembered nationwide, with a national ceremony at the monument with the Corps in attendance.\n\nIn 1858, during the term of Commandant Colonel Luis Tola Algarín, the College moved its facilities to the former Church of Sts. Peter and Paul in Mexico City. During the Reform War the same year the Corps of Cadets was involved in a clash with the forces of Gen. Miguel Blanco on October 15 in Toluca. Casualties suffered by the cadets and instructors in this and subsequent actions caused the closure of the College in 1861.\n\nThe College was reopened in 1867. Located first in the National Palace the College was moved to various locations before returning to the Chapultepec Castle in 1882. Formerly a joint services institution, the College became an academy for the Mexican Army only in 1897, following the establishment of the Military Naval School in Veracruz.\n\nOn 8 February 1913 the 600 cadets of the Military College played a part in the coup known as The Ten Tragic Days against President Francisco Madero. Cadets of the separate \"Escuela Militar de Aspirantes de Tlalpan\" (established in 1905 as an additional academy for training junior officers) had joined with regular army units in an ultimately successful attempt to overthrow Madero. However a detachment of cadets from the Heroic Military College, acting on the orders of Deputy Commandant Lieutenant Colonel Víctor Hernández Covarrubias escorted President Madero from Chapultepec Castle to the National Palace on the following day. Termed the \"Loyalty March\", this action is still marked by an annual parade by the Corps of Cadets, attended by the present-day President of Mexico and his Cabinet.\n\nThe new government down-graded the role of the Heroic Military College, briefly merging its functions with those of the \"Escuela Militar de Aspirantes de Tlalpan\" and accelerating the training of cadets from both academies to reinforce the crumbling Federal Army. Following the overthrow of General Victoriano Huerta in July 1914 and the disbandment of the Federal Army, the College was closed. It was reestablished in February 1920 albelt in a new campus in Popotla, Mexico City. Later that spring the then reestablished cavalry squadron were involved in what has been termed \"the final cavalry charge in the Americas\". This occurred on May 8, when on the orders of Colonel Rodolfo Casillas the cadets acted in support of regular army dragoons led by General Pilar Sanchez under attack by rebel forces in Apizaco, Tlaxcala. In another engagement two days later a cadet was killed in action in San Marcos while supporting government forces.\n\nIn 1947 The Military College celebrated the centenary of the Corps of Cadets' participation in the Battle of Chapultepec, the finest hour of its history. In 1949, the Congress of the Union formally conferred the \"Heroic\" designation to both the Corps and to the Midshipmen's Battalion of the Naval Military Academy, the latter for its role in resisting the United States occupation of Veracruz in 1914.\n\nTo celebrate the 150th anniversary of the Heroic Military College (1820-1970), 1 oz silver coins were minted by the Central Bank. In addition stamps featuring two Military College shakos were printed by the Government of Mexico. A special issue of stamps also commemorated the Golden Jubilee of \"the final cavalry charge in the Americas\"; carried out by the cavalry cadets of the college in 1920 (see above).\n\nIn 1976, the College's present campus in Tlalpan Borough, Mexico City, was formally opened, partially damaged by the 1985 earthquake that struck the city. Today, the commandant of the academy is Brigade General Julio Álvarez Arellano.\n\nThe school was used as a setting for Luis Miguel's 1989 music video \"La Incondicional\". In the video he plays an Air Force cadet who is in love, but he must take his stuides as soldier seriously. In a marching scene towards the end of the song one can see the \"Por el Honor de Mexico\" banner.\n\nPerote, the second home of the Military College, has been dubbed by the Veracruz State Congress as \"The Cradle of the Military College\" since 2002.\n\nFrom 2007, the academy has accepted female cadets. The present Corps is regiment-sized and has among its units a cavalry squadron and an artillery battery, plus an armored cavalry training squadron raised recently - a first in a military academy in Latin America.\n\n\"Por el Honor de Mexico\" (\"For Mexico's Honor\") is the college motto, made in a contest organized by radio station XEQ in commemoration of the centenary of the defense of Chalpultepec Castle in 1947.\n\nEvery midday, after the afternoon ceremony and before the midday parade, the following cheer is done by the Corps of Cadets:\n\n\nThe Hymn of the Heroic Military College was composed in 1930 by Prof. José Ignacio Ríos del Río.\n\nSpanish\n\"Chorus\" \nVibre el clarín de la guerra, resuenen las fanfarrias\nRedoblen los tambores, una marcha triunfal\nY lleven de la Patria a todos los confines\nTu nombre sacrosanto, \nColegio Militar\nTu nombre sacrosanto, \nColegio Militar\n\n\"Verse\nColegio sacrosanto, de memoria bendita\nde forjaran sus almas, Montes de Oca y Melgar\nLa Patria bate marcha de honor a tu pasado,\nde epopeyas gloriosas y de nombre inmortal.\n\nY en un gesto sublime de amor y de cariño,\nbendice a los efebos que supieron morir \nbañados por las ráfagas de luz espendorosa\nque el ángel de la gloria enviara del cenit.\n\n\"Repeat Chorus\"\n\nThe Regimental March was composed by Lieutenant José Sotero Ortiz Sánchez, in time for the College's 1947 centenary of the Battle of Chapultepec.\n\nSpanish\nPáginas del libro de la historia del Heroico Colegio Militar\nde epopeyas que ya jamás se borran del santuario de la inmortalidad.\nCanto que se eleva a la memoria como ofrenda de honor a la lealtad \nde los héroes que envueltos por la gloria grandioso ejemplo que nos dio la libertad. \n\"Repeat All\"\n\nJuventud de mi patria sublime, que marcháis con gallarda ilusión \naumentáreis la historia que escribe nobles hechos de sangre y honor. \nYunque forjador de hombres de guerra como Suárez, Escutia y Melgar,\nMontes de Oca, Márquez y De la Barrera, los niños héroes de mi México inmortal!\n\"Repeat All\"\n\nThe site was used as a location for the 1990 movie Total Recall (1990 film). The buildings of the academy were used as apartments and a subway entrance.\n\nHISTORIA INSTITUCIONAL DE LA EDUCACIÓN DEL HEROICO COLEGIO MILITAR DE MÉXICO (1822-1871)\n"}
{"id": "43725386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43725386", "title": "Iládio Amado", "text": "Iládio Amado\n\nIládio Amado (born 1976, Portugal) is a teacher of music education and also an instrumentalist and composer. He lives in Vila do Bispo, Algarve, and has performed all over the country as a member of various bands. He is currently a member of Tokamaki.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40170499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40170499", "title": "Institute for the International Education of Students", "text": "Institute for the International Education of Students\n\nThe Institute for the International Education of Students, or IES Abroad, is a non-profit study abroad organization that administers study abroad programs for U.S. college-aged students. Founded in 1950 as the Institute of European Studies, the organization has since been renamed to reflect additional offerings in Africa, Asia, Oceania, and Latin America. The organization now provides more than 125+ programs in 19 countries and 33 cities. Over 115,000 students have studied abroad on IES Abroad programs since its founding, with more than 5,700 students studying abroad each year.\n\nIES Abroad has an Academic Consortium composed of over 200 academic institutions. It offers over $3 million in scholarships to help finance qualified students abroad. In accordance with its mission and vision statement, IES Abroad highlights cultural immersion through the use of homestays and field trips to \"[promote] the development of interculturally-competent leaders.\" IES Abroad's services include pre-departure advising, visa assistance, alumni mentors, and safety plans at Centers abroad. IES Abroad has a diversity initiative and a green initiative.\n\nIES Abroad offered its first program in September 1950, when Paul Koutny, an Austrian student living in the U.S. on a Fulbright scholarship, brought American students to live and study in Vienna, Austria for a year. Two of the students from the original program, newlyweds Clarence and Alberta Giese, returned after the program inspired to help other students study abroad. From their Chicago home, they worked with Koutny to recruit more students and send them abroad.\nIES Abroad developed a Model Assessment Practice in 1999 as a framework for the design, development, and evaluation of programs of study abroad. This program formed the basis for the standards of the Forum on Education Abroad adopted by the field. In 2010, IES Abroad was the first third-party provider to receive the Forum on Education Abroad's Category 2b Quality Improvement Designation, which involves independent reviewers using evaluation systems to make program improvements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9865448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9865448", "title": "Introducing Kafka", "text": "Introducing Kafka\n\nIntroducing Kafka, also known as R. Crumb's Kafka, is an illustrated biography of Franz Kafka by David Zane Mairowitz and Robert Crumb. The book includes comic adaptations of some of Kafka's most famous works including \"The Metamorphosis\", \"A Hunger Artist\", \"In the Penal Colony\", and \"The Judgment\", as well as brief sketches of his three novels \"The Trial\", \"The Castle\", and \"Amerika\". The book also details Kafka's biography in a format that is part illustrated essay, part sequential comic panels. \n\nThe book was released as part of the \"Introducing...\" series by Totem Books; the popularity of Crumb's renditions of Kafka's works led to additional printings under the title \"R. Crumb's Kafka\", and its most recent edition by Fantagraphics Books (2007) is simply titled \"Kafka\".\n\nThe book focuses on the biographical details of Kafka's life, interspersed with illustrated vignettes from his writing. The author relates Kafka's personality and various incidents in his life to the composition of his stories. For example, Kafka's complicated relationship with his family is linked to stories where the main character is an animal – notably \"The Metamorphosis\" whose protagonist, Gregor Samsa, awakens to find himself transformed into a giant bug, and becomes a burden on his family.\n\n"}
{"id": "5588922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5588922", "title": "Jeanine Basinger", "text": "Jeanine Basinger\n\nJeanine Basinger (born 3 February 1936), a film historian, was for many years the Corwin-Fuller Professor of Film Studies and Founder and Curator of The Cinema Archives at Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut.\nShe is also a trustee emeritus of the American Film Institute, a member of the Steering Committee of the National Center for Film and Video Preservation, and one of the Board of Advisors for the Association of Independent Video and Filmmakers. On February 11, 2005, she was named to the board of directors of the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures. She has a BS and MS from South Dakota State University.\nBasinger has been described as \"one of the most important film scholars alive today.\" Among other accomplishments, she is credited with having built Wesleyan's Film Studies program into one of the ten best film schools in the world. \"A shockingly disproportionate number of Hollywood movers and shakers\" are graduates of the program. Graduates include Akiva Goldsman, Joss Whedon, Michael Bay, Paul Weitz, Laurence Mark, Paul Schiff, Gary Walkow, Alex Kurtzman, Bruce Eric Kaplan, Toby Emmerich, Nick Meyer, Marc Shmuger, Rick Nicita, Bradley Fuller, Dana Delany, Stephen Schiff, Rodger Grossman, Toni Ross, Bradley Whitford, Domenica Cameron-Scorsese, Liz Garcia, Marc Longenecker, Jon Turteltaub, Owen Renfroe, Jeffrey Lane, Zak Penn, Jeremy Arnold and Miguel Arteta.\n\nShe has appeared in numerous documentaries, and also in a dramatic role in \"A Better Way to Die\" (2000). In 2006 she participated in \"Wanderlust\", a documentary film on road movies and their effect on American culture.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11943226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11943226", "title": "LAMS", "text": "LAMS\n\nLAMS, the Learning Activity Management System, is an open source Learning Design system for designing, managing and delivering online collaborative learning activities. It provides teachers with an intuitive visual authoring environment for creating sequences of learning activities. These activities can include a range of individual tasks, small group work and whole class activities based on both content and collaboration. LAMS is 'inspired' by the concept and principles of IMS Learning Design.\n\nLAMS is developed in collaboration with LAMS Foundation and a number of educational institutions around the world. LAMS has been developed since 2003.. LAMS International (Sydney) and LAMS Education Asia (Singapore) are commercial companies that provide development and support services for the LAMS platform. \n\nThe LAMS community website is a global community website for teachers and developers who use the LAMS software. As of March 2018, the LAMS Community had over 12000 members across 80 countries sharing 3750 sequences (downloaded 32252, previewed 83102 times) and 8592 discussion forum postings.\n\nLAMS creates \"digital lesson plans\" that can be run online with students, as well as shared among teachers. The LAMS Community allows teachers to share and adapt digital lesson plans, and discuss their experiences of using LAMS. Teachers, trainers and professors can find digital lessons plans that are freely available to use and adapt, and they can share their own and adaptations. There is a Greek LAMS community.\n\nThe LAMS Community has a central repository of learning designs (LAMS Central Repository). These are LAMS sequences shared by teachers and practitioners that use LAMS in their teaching. The subjects of these designs vary widely, from Higher Ed Science subjects to basic k-12.\n\nLAMS in conjunction with the associated LAMS Community won a Gold Award and Best Learning System at the IMS Global Learning Consortium's Learning Impact Awards (LIAs) in May 2009.\n\nAs of June 2018, the current stable version of LAMS is 3.0.2 Version 3.0 is a major release that introduces a responsive web design, drops the need to have Adobe Flash Player, updated all its tech stack and adds significant feature and technical improvements. \n\nLAMS version 3.1 is available as beta release (Oct 2018).\n\nLAMS can be integrated with any LMS system that implement IMS LTI as a consumer. However, IMS LTI 1.2 has some important limitations, therefore native integration with other popular LMSs are available for:\n\n\nLAMS is both a IMS LTI 1.3 consumer and service provider, including Deep Linking and Membership extensions. \n\nThe LAMS Tool Contract is an architecture to allow Tool Interoperability across Learning Management Systems (LMS). It allows tools (web applications) to become \"pluggable\" in any LMS. The LAMS Tool Contract is the underlying architecture of LAMS and currently tools from other platforms like Moodle and dotLRN can be used within LAMS.\n\nThese international conferences are academic conferences where papers submitted are peer-reviewed by members of the conference committee. The main topics of this conferences are LAMS and Learning Design and are mainly in English (although there has been one in Spanish). The first LAMS Conference was in Sydney Australia in December, 2006. Usually there are two conferences a year, one in Australia and one in Europe or Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56111067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56111067", "title": "London Diving Chamber Dive Lectures", "text": "London Diving Chamber Dive Lectures\n\nThe Dive Lectures are a series of public lectures that have been hosted at the Royal Geographical Society in London every year since 2005 as part of an ongoing programme of events by the Society and the London Diving Chamber to promote exploration and adventure sports. Featuring keynote presentations by well-known figures in diving, television, exploration, photography and environmentalism, the lectures have developed into a well-attended social and professional forum for the British scuba industry as well as a popular fund-raising occasion for diving-related charities.\n\nThe first Dive Lecture was inaugurated in March 2002 under the auspices of the London Diving Chamber which provides NHS-funded recompression to divers with Decompression Sickness (DCS) together with other Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy (HBOT) treatments from its recompression chamber at The Hospital of St John & St Elizabeth in St. John's Wood, London.\n\nSometimes held annually, sometimes biannually, the lectures are free to attend but also act as fund-raising occasions for diving-related charities such as The Scuba Trust, an organisation helping divers with disabilities.\n\nIn 2005, the lectures took up their now regular venue at the RGS. Initially, they were held in the Map Room of Lowther Lodge, subsequent events have been held in the 500-seat auditorium, The Ondaatje Theatre.\n\nFrom its inception in 2002, the London Diving Chamber Annual Dive Lectures has attracted well-known figures from the diving world and celebrities interested in diving to speak to its audience. In its earliest years, the event was introduced by Lloyd Grossman and Mariella Frostrup, and speakers included Paul Toomer, Phil Docking and Bob Cole. Since 2007 speakers have included:\n"}
{"id": "38848504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38848504", "title": "Lord Buddha Education Foundation", "text": "Lord Buddha Education Foundation\n\nLord Buddha Education Foundation (LBEF) is an IT college located at Maitidevi, Kathmandu, Nepal. It is affiliated under Asia Pacific University of Malaysia and Tribhuvan University of Nepal. Founded in 1998, the Lord Buddha Education Foundation (LBEF), a Non-Profit, Non-Government Organization has a well-established tradition of excellence across a broad range of academic disciplines. From its humble beginnings, the college has made steady progress and today stands as one of the leading colleges in Nepal with currently over 1,000 students. More than 7000 students have over the years graduated from LBEF Group of Institutions and today, have established careers as bankers, IT experts, entrepreneurs, managers, leaders in their choosen area of interest. LBEF CAMPUS is known as the First IT college of Nepal.\n\n"}
{"id": "50060420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50060420", "title": "Maria Lowenstein", "text": "Maria Lowenstein\n\nMaria Lowenstein (April 4, 1894 - October 29, 1982) was an American artist.\n\nLowenstein was born Maria Lilli Margarete Baetge in Estonia. In 1914 in Helsinki, she married architect Erich Steinberg, by whom she had a daughter, Karin, (1915-2014). After fleeing from the tumult of the Russian Revolution, Maria moved to Berlin, where her husband, Erich Steinberg, died in 1920. In 1925, Maria married the Jewish German dermatologist Max Loewenstein; their son, Henry, was born that same year. Among the friends of Max and Maria was the composer Kurt Weill.\n\nHaving previously studied at the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Maria refined her artistic talents at the Institute of Fine Arts in Berlin.\n\nAlthough she saw her son to safety in 1938 during the Kindertransport, she and her husband and daughter stayed in Berlin during the war, where she was involved in the Rosenstrasse protests of wives of Jewish men. \n\n"}
{"id": "58084383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58084383", "title": "Ministry of Science and Higher Education (Russia)", "text": "Ministry of Science and Higher Education (Russia)\n\nThe Ministry of Science and Higher Education of the Russian Federation () is a ministry established in May 2018 as a result of splitting the Ministry of Education and Science, existed from March 2004, into the two agencies. The second simultaneously emerged agency is the Ministry of Education sometimes called \"of General Education\" or \"of Enlightenment\". The Ministry of Science and Higher Education is responsible for a state control over the scientific institutions and the university-level education in the Russian Federation. Particularly, all institutes of the Russian Academy of Sciences are now under jurisdiction of this Ministry. It is headquartered in Moscow. Mikhail Kotyukov is appointed to serve as a Minister.\n"}
{"id": "9905060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9905060", "title": "Mr Science Show", "text": "Mr Science Show\n\nMr Science Show is an Australian science podcast. The show originated on China Radio International in 2006, and was broadcast on China Drive until 2008, at which point it became a podcast. The show in China was broadcast in English and produced in Beijing, with creator Marc West interviewed over the phone. Currently, the podcast is produced in Australia by Marc West. The show was originally produced by James West.\n\nArchived versions of the show are available on the Mr Science Show site and through the podcast on iTunes.\n\n"}
{"id": "8732255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8732255", "title": "National Shakespeare Conservatory", "text": "National Shakespeare Conservatory\n\nThe National Shakespeare Conservatory was an acting school in New York City, offering a two-year certificate program and an eight-week summer training program. The Conservatory was founded in 1974 by Philip Meister, Albert Schoemann and Mario Siletti.\n\nThe Conservatory was an offshoot of the National Shakespeare Company, a professional acting company that toured productions of Shakespeare and the classics to colleges and universities throughout the US and Canada. The Summer Conservatory was first offered at the Byrdcliffe Theatre in Woodstock, N.Y. in 1974, and moved its facilities to Kerhonkson, N.Y. in 1978, where it continued summer operations until 1998.\n\nThe Conservatory expanded to a Two Year Program in New York City in 1977, and was situated in the National Shakespeare Company's brownstone studios and offices on West 51 Street near 9th Avenue in Manhattan, along with The Cubiculo, an off-off-Broadway theatre, also owned and operated by the National Shakespeare Company. After Meister's death in 1982, Siletti and Schoemann established The Conservatory as a separate entity from the National Shakespeare Company, and moved the operation of the Two Year Program to lower Broadway in Soho.\n\nThe National Shakespeare Conservatory was one of the first independent professional actor training programs in the U.S. to become an institutional member of the National Association of Schools of Theatre in 1978; a status gained only through the peer review process of accreditation.\n\nThe Conservatory's training emphasized classical plays, utilizing a broad array of contemporary acting techniques – physical, vocal and internal – that enabled the voice and body to support the actor's internal choices. The integration of the physical and vocal with internal techniques with a strong classical base was the hallmark of Conservatory's intensive training.\n\nThe Summer Program and the first year of training in the Two Year Program was devoted to intensive classes in scene study, acting technique, Shakespeare, movement, dance, voice, improvisation and music. The second year was devoted to rigorous advanced study in the same areas. As part of the curriculum, the second year included a one-person show and Off-Off-Broadway showcases.\n\nMany of the National Shakespeare Conservatory teachers were professional actors recruited by Meister, Schoemann and Siletti to serve as faculty, beginning their teaching careers at The Conservatory, and subsequently teaching at the Stella Adler Studio of Acting, its undergraduate studio program at New York University, and other colleges and universities.\n\nBeginning in 1994, the US Department of Education raised its requirement for the National Shakespeare Conservatory to post a Letter of Credit in order to continue participation in the federal student aid programs. Because of The Conservatory's quality of accreditation review, low student loan default rate and consistent long term operation as a non-profit organization, The Conservatory considered the amount of the Letter of Credit excessive and contested it in federal court. After a two-year battle with the USDE the federal judge ruled against the school. The National Shakespeare Conservatory then offered to post the Letter of Credit. The Department of Education refused to accept the Letter of Credit from the National Shakespeare Conservatory, and terminated the Conservatory's participation in federal student financial assistance programs, based on the school's failure to provide a sufficient letter of credit in 1996.\nAs a consequence, the school ceased operations of the Two Year training program that fall.\n\nThe Summer Conservatory continued to operate for the next two years. In 1996 in addition to its training program, it provided free outdoor performances of Shakespeare in municipal parks in upstate New York, under the banner Catskill Shakespeare until the school closed in late 1998.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2077302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2077302", "title": "North Central Association of Colleges and Schools", "text": "North Central Association of Colleges and Schools\n\nThe North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (NCA), also known as the North Central Association, was a membership organization, consisting of colleges, universities, and schools in 19 U.S. states engaged in educational accreditation. It was one of six regional accreditation bodies in the U.S. and its Higher Learning Commission was recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) as a regional accreditor for higher education institutions. \n\nThe organization was dissolved in 2014. The primary and secondary education accreditation functions of the association have been merged into AdvancED with the postsecondary education accreditation functions vested in the Higher Learning Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58764799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58764799", "title": "Olaus Petriskolan", "text": "Olaus Petriskolan\n\nOlaus Petriskolan is a Swedish school in Örebro. It is a public school that opened in 1908 under the name \"Norra folkskolan\". It was created by architect Carl Nissen. Its name was changed in 1925. \n"}
{"id": "7393466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7393466", "title": "Open University of Cyprus", "text": "Open University of Cyprus\n\nOpen University of Cyprus is a public Higher Education Institution, operating under the effective control of the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Cyprus. Established in 2002, OUC is the country’s only University devoted entirely to open and distance education and lifelong learning. OUC offers interdisciplinary, career-oriented and accredited Bachelor’s, Master’s and PhD degree programmes in both ‘classical’ and ‘cutting edge’ scientific areas. \n\nOpen University of Cyprus aspires to provide students with lifelong learning opportunities and higher education degrees useful to start or advance their professional careers, and fulfill their personal aspirations and goals. The University aims to combine its international reach and flexible operations and structure, using both to support the State’s vision to establish Cyprus as a regional centre for education, scientific research and innovation, a hub for international scholars and students alike. Towards this direction, OUC expands its network of collaborators and establishes strong partnerships with Universities and research institutions in Cyprus, the broader region and beyond, promoting educational and research cooperation and mobility of students and staff. \n\nOpen University of Cyprus is a dedicated open and distance learning University. Its educational technology, in combination with modern teaching and learning methods supported by multi-format educational materials, respond to the diverse needs of its students, allowing them to study wherever and whenever they wish, using any digital platform.\n\nAccordingly, OUC’s distance education and blended learning methodology differs from conventional classroom-based education, mainly because it allows students to complete their studies and obtain their degree, breaking down the rigid barriers of traditional education, without physically attending scheduled lectures, and – in case students are already employed – without disrupting work routines or leaving their workplace. \n\neLearning Platform - eClass\n\nThe University’s main educational tool is the eLearning Platform eClass that facilitates online teaching and learning through the establishment of virtual classrooms, supports lecture capture, live and video on demand lectures and tutorials, and integrates real-time and asynchronous collaboration tools. Concisely, OUC’s eLearning Platform is a comprehensive and constantly evolving eLearning system backing the educational process across all its phases. \n\nStudents use eClass to:\n\nIn a true collaborative environment, the eLearning platform also supports live interaction and direct contact with academics, peers and fellow students. The synchronous collaboration (virtual classrooms, live streaming) and asynchronous (forums, instant messaging) communication tools are fully utilised by experienced and dedicated academic staff, offering effective and interactive academic support, guidance and advice. Moreover, virtual labs have further enhanced the University’s educational capabilities in supporting and offering high quality innovative programmes in any subject. \n\nDespite being ‘distance’ in essence, learning experience at OUC is complemented by academics-students group tutorials that are scheduled throughout the academic year and, while not mandatory, they play a key supporting role in educational processes. These tutorials are organised either with physical presence or are conducted online using eClass virtual classes, and are academically challenging and rigorous. To ensure the integrity of OUC degrees and examination processes, students are required to attend in person (at examination centres in Cyprus, Greece or elsewhere under certain conditions) the final written exams, which count towards a significant percentage of their overall grade.\n\nOUC’s extensive range of Programmes of Study covers subject areas in undergraduate (BA, BSc) and postgraduate level (MA, MSc, PhD) offered in Greek and English by its three Faculties:\n\n\nThe detailed list of Programmes of Study and related courses offered by Open University of Cyprus can be found here\n\nOUC is a State University, and its main decision-making bodies are the following:\n\nThe Director of Administration and Finance is the head of the University’s administration, and acts as Secretary of the Senate and the Council.\n\nOUC operating Law may be found at the website of the University \n"}
{"id": "43264630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43264630", "title": "Physics outreach", "text": "Physics outreach\n\nPhysics outreach encompasses facets of science outreach and physics education and is an umbrella term for a variety of activities by schools, research institutes, universities, clubs and institutions such as science museums aimed at broadening the audience for and awareness and understanding of physics. While the general public may sometimes be the focus of such activities, physics outreach often centers on developing and providing resources and making presentations to students, educators in other disciplines, and in some cases researchers within different areas of physics.\n\nOngoing efforts to expand the understanding of physics to a wider audience have been undertaken by individuals and institutions since the early 19th century. Historic works, such as the \"Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems\", and Two New Sciences by Galileo Galilei, sought to present revolutionary knowledge in astronomy, frames of reference, and kinematics in a manner that a general audience could understand with great effect.\n\nIn the mid 1800s, English physicist and chemist, Michael Faraday gave a series of nineteen lectures aimed towards young adults with the hopes of conveying scientific phenomena. His intentions were to raise awareness, inspire them and generate revenue of the Royal Institution. This series became known as the Christmas lectures, and still continues today. By the early 20th century, the public notoriety of physicists such as Albert Einstein and Marie Curie, and inventions such as radio led to a growing interest in physics. In 1921, in the United States, the establishment of Sigma Pi Sigma physics honor society at universities was instrumental in the expanding number of physics presentations, and led to the creation of physics clubs open to all students.\n\nMuseums were an important form of outreach but most early science museums were generally focused on natural history. Some specialized museums, such as the Cavendish Museum at University of Cambridge, housed many of the historically important pieces of apparatus that contributed to the major discoveries by Maxwell, Thomson, Rutherford, etc. However, such venues provided little opportunity for hands-on learning or demonstrations.\n\nIn August 1969, Frank Oppenheimer dedicated his new Exploratorium in San Francisco primarily to interactive science exhibits that demonstrated principles in physics. The Exploratorium published the details of their own exhibits in 'Cookbooks' that served as an inspiration to many other museums around the world, and since then has diversified into many outreach programs. Oppenheimer had researched European science museums while on a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1965. He noted that three museums served as important influences on the Exploratorium: the Palais de la Découverte, which displayed models to teach scientific concepts and employed students as demonstrators, a practice that directly inspired the Exploratorium's much-lauded High School Explainer Program; the South Kensington Museum of Science and Art, which Oppenheimer and his wife visited frequently; and the Deutsches Museum in Munich, the world's largest science museum, which had a number of interactive displays that impressed the Oppenheimers.\n\nIn the ensuing years, physics outreach, and science outreach more generally, continued to expand and took on new popular forms, including highly successful television shows such as , first broadcast in 1980.\n\nAs a form of outreach within the physics education community for teachers and students, in 1997 the US National Science Foundation (NSF) and Department of Energy USDOE established QuarkNet, a professional teacher development program. In 2012, the University of Notre Dame received a $6.1M, five-year grant to support a nationwide expansion of the Quarknet program. Also in 1997, the European Particle Physics Outreach Group, led by Christopher Llewellyn Smith, FRS, and Director General of CERN, was formed to create a community of scientists, science educators, and communication specialists in science education and public outreach for particle physics. This group became the International Particle Physics Outreach Group (IPPOG) in 2011 after the start up of the LHC\n\nMany contemporary initiatives in physics outreach have begun to shift focus, transcending traditional field boundaries, seeking to engage students and the public by integrating elements of aesthetic design and popular culture. The goal has been not only to push physics out of a strictly science education framework but also to draw in professionals and students from other fields to bring their perspectives on physical phenomena. Such work includes artists creating sculptures using ferrofluids, and art photography using high speed and ultra high speed photography.\n\nOther efforts, such as University of Cambridge's Physics at Work program have created annual events to demonstrate to secondary students uses of physics in everyday life and a Senior Physics Challenge. Seeing the importance these initiatives, Cambridge has established a full-time physics outreach organization, an Educational Outreach Office, and aspirations for a Center of Physics and expanded industrial partnerships that \"would include a well equipped core team of outreach officers dedicated to demonstrating the real life applications of physics, showing that physics is an accessible and relevant subject\".\n\nThe French research group, La Physique Autrement (Physics Reimagined), of the Laboratoire de Physique des Solides works on research about new ways to present modern solid-state physics and to engage the general public. In 2013, Physics Today covered this group in an article entitled \"Quantum Physics For Everyone\" which discussed how with the help of designers and unconventional demonstrations, the project sought out and succeeded to engage people who never thought of themselves as interested in science.\n\nThe Science & Entertainment Exchange, was developed by the United States National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to increase public awareness, knowledge, and understanding of science and advanced science technology through its representation in television, film, and other media. It was officially launched in 2008 as a partnership between the NAS and Hollywood. The Exchanged is Based in Los Angeles, California.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37327654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37327654", "title": "Ricerche di Pedagogia e Didattica", "text": "Ricerche di Pedagogia e Didattica\n\nRicerche di Pedagogia e Didattica: Journal of Theories and Research in Education is a peer-reviewed open access academic journal established in 2006. It is published by the Department of Education science of the University of Bologna. It covers education theories and pedagogy. The journal is published in Italian and English.\n\nIn 2012, the journal acquired class A status in the evaluation lists published by the \"National Agency for the Evaluation of Universities and Research Institutes\", and it is indexed in several databases (as SUMMONS) and academic search engines\n\nIt is maintained by \"AlmaDL\", digital library of the University of Bologna.\n"}
{"id": "24521119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24521119", "title": "Rick Hillis", "text": "Rick Hillis\n\nRick Hillis was a Canadian poet and short story writer.\n\nHe graduated from the University of Saskatchewan and the Iowa Writers Workshop, with an MFA. He attended Stanford University as a Stegner Fellow and Jones Lecturer in fiction writing, and was also a Chesterfield Film Writers’ Fellow at Universal Studios.\n\nHe taught creative writing at a number of institutions, including Reed College, Stanford University, Lewis & Clark College, and the University of Oregon. As well, he was on faculty at the University of Iowa’s Summer Writers’ Festival. He began teaching at DePauw University in 2002.\n\n\nRick Hillis died on October 8, 2014. \n\nRaymond Carver territory has an outpost in Saskatchewan, Canada, and that's where Rick Hillis sets the nine stories in this collection, which won the 1990 Drue Heinz Literature Prize. Blue-collar workers and bums, alcoholics and artists, farm hands and nursing-home attendants, teachers and children struggle through a world where winters are long, money is short and dreams tend to come true only in dreams.\n"}
{"id": "37727037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37727037", "title": "Rising Sun Institute", "text": "Rising Sun Institute\n\nRising Sun Institute, established in 1984 by Dr. Abdul Tawwab Khan & Mrs. Parveen Abdul Tawwab, is a special education center for mentally and physically challenged children in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. It has two campuses located in DHA and Mughalpura.\nRising Sun Institute is a project of “Rising Sun Education and Welfare Society” a not-for-profit and charity-based organization, working for the welfare of special children. It is the largest Institute for special education in Pakistan providing education, vocational & computer training, physio, hydro, speech therapy and various other forms of rehabilitation facilities to more than 600 Children with Intellectual & Visual Impairment, Cerebral Palsy and Autism. The services rendered include individualized education programs, free transportation, Games, Sports & Cultural activities are also the integral part of the total program.\n\nRising Sun Education & Welfare Society is working in the field of special education since 1984. Its Vision & Mission are in line with article 23 of Convention of Rights of the Child 1989:\n\nVision:\n“To make special children confident and self-reliant members of the society” \n\nMission:\n“ To provide these children with all the educational & training facilities to enhance their capabilities and rehabilitate them in the society” – \nRising Sun Institute for Special children is one of its major projects. \nIn 1984, The Rising Sun Institute (RSI) started working with only 2 special children in the dining room of Dr. and Mrs. Abdul Tawwab Khan. RSI now has over 750 enrolled children in DHA campus and Mughalpura campus.\nCurrently two campuses of Rising Sun Institute for special children (RSI) are working under umbrella of RSE&WS and catering to the needs of 750 Special needs students. Teaching & training facilities are provided to children with intellectual impairment, physical disabilities, visual impairment, hearing impairment, Autism, Downs Syndrome, cerebral palsy and multiple disabilities.\n• Teaching and training program focuses on the teaching of basic skill of self-care and independent living to the special children. This is the first step in their training towards making them independent, self-reliant individuals.\n• Almost 30 to 40 percent of the students of RSI have associated Physical Disabilities, especially children with Cerebral Palsy. A well qualified and experienced team of Physiotherapists helps these children to improve their posture, the range of movement of their joints, hand and eye coordination and body control with the help of different equipment and exercises, thus improving the quality of their life. These students are provided with physiotherapy, hydrotherapy, sensory integration therapy and occupational therapy.\n• Almost 50 to 60 percent of intellectually affected & CP children suffer from speech problems. At Rising Sun Institute, emphasis is on Speech & Language Therapy of these children, so that they can communicate freely about their needs and requirements. A team of well qualified, trained and experienced Speech Therapists helps these children to enhance their communication skills in a structured manner.\n• In order to achieve aim of making these children confident and self-reliant citizens, the Institution has a well-equipped vocational training department. Where children are imparted training of manual skills (wood work, weaving, sewing, tailoring, silk painting, block printing, dough work, sequins work etc.) \n• Games and sports bring about positive changes in the personalities of special children. Every student is given sports coaching in different games. Students of Rising Sun have represented Pakistan in International Olympics for multiple times. since 1995 special athletes of Rising Sun have won 80 medals in international special Olympics. \n\n• In order to create awareness about special needs children in general population, different seminars and workshops are held around the year. Pamphlets and brochures are also prepared about different disabilities and related issues. Rising sun Institute also holds summer internship program in month of July every year simultaneously at both of its campuses. During this internship program young girls and boys from different institutions join rising sun Institute as volunteers. This serves a dual purpose as children at rising sun Institute interact with regular age mates and make new friends. While on the other hand the interns learn about these special people and their unique world.\n\n"}
{"id": "13432082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13432082", "title": "Science communication", "text": "Science communication\n\nScience communication is the public communication of science-related topics to non-experts. This often involves professional scientists (called \"outreach\" or \"popularization\"), but has also evolved into a professional field in its own right. It includes science exhibitions, journalism, policy or media production. Science communication also includes communication between scientists (for instance through scientific journals), as well as between scientists and non-scientists (especially during public controversies over science and in citizen science initiatives).\nScience communication may generate support for scientific research or study, or to inform decision making, including political and ethical thinking. There is increasing emphasis on explaining methods rather than simply findings of science. This may be especially critical in addressing scientific misinformation, which spreads easily because it is not subject to the constraints of scientific method.\nScience communicators can use entertainment and persuasion including humour, storytelling and metaphors. Scientists can be trained in some of the techniques used by actors to improve their communication.\n\nPartly due to a market for professional training, science communication is also an academic discipline. Journals include \"Public Understanding of Science\" and \"Science Communication\". Researchers in this field are often linked to Science and Technology Studies, but may also come from history of science, mainstream media studies, psychology or sociology. As a reflection of growth in this field, academic departments, such as the \"Department of Life Sciences Communication\" at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, have been established to focus on applied and theoretical communication issues. Agricultural communication is considered a subset of science communication from an academic and professional standpoint relating to agriculture-related information among agricultural and non-agricultural stakeholders. Health communication is a related discipline.\nWriting in 1987, Geoffery Thomas and John Durant advocated various reasons to increase public understanding of science, or scientific literacy. If the public enjoyed science more, they suggested there would presumably be more funding, progressive regulation, and trained scientists. More trained engineers and scientists could allow a nation to be more competitive economically.\nScience can also benefit individuals. Science can simply have aesthetic appeal (e.g. popular science or science fiction). Living in an increasingly technological society, background scientific knowledge can help to negotiate it. The science of happiness is an example of a field whose research can have direct and obvious implications for individuals.\nGovernments and societies might also benefit from more scientific literacy, since an informed electorate promotes a more democratic society. Moreover, science can inform moral decision making (e.g. answering questions about whether animals can feel pain, how human activity influences climate, or even a science of morality).\nBernard Cohen points out potential pitfalls in improving scientific literacy. He explains first that we must avoid 'scientific idolatry'. In other words, science education must allow the public to respect science without worshiping it, or expecting infallibility. Ultimately scientists are humans, and neither perfectly altruistic, nor perfectly competent. Science communicators must also appreciate the distinction between understanding science and possessing a transferable skill of scientific thinking. Indeed, even trained scientists do not always manage to transfer the skill to other areas of their life.\n\nCommunicating science to the public is increasingly important in today's society. However according to some research, some scientists do not have the skills necessary to do so effectively. There has been some research done over why this is, and it has been found that the stereotype of scientists is the main reason they will not communicate to the public often. The \"Draw a Scientist\" experiment proves that from a young age, most people assume that scientists are unsocial, so scientists use that as a reason to not communicate.\n\nCohen is critical of what has been called \"Scientism\" – the claim that science is the best or only way to solve all problems. He also criticizes the teaching of 'miscellaneous information' and doubts that much of it will ever be of any use, (e.g. the distance in light years from the Earth to various stars, or the names of minerals). Much of scientific knowledge, particularly if it is not the subject of public debate and policy revision, may never really translate to practical changes for the lives of the learners.\n\nMany criticisms of academic research in public understanding of science come from scholars in Science and Technology Studies. For example, Steven Hilgartner (1990) argues that what he calls 'the dominant view' of science popularization tends to imply a tight boundary around those who can articulate true, reliable knowledge. By defining a deficient public as recipients of knowledge, the scientists get to contrast their own identity as experts. The process of popularization is a form of boundary work. Understood in this way, science communication may explicitly exist to connect scientists with the rest of society, but its very existence only acts to emphasise it: as if the scientific community only invited the public to play in order to reinforce its most powerful boundary (according to work by Massimiano Bucchi or Brian Wynne).\n\nBiologist Randy Olson adds that anti-science groups can often be so motivated, and so well funded, that the impartiality of science organizations in politics can lead to crises of public understanding of science. He cites examples of denialism (for instance of global warming) to support this worry. Journalist Robert Krulwich likewise argues that the stories scientists tell are invariably competing with the efforts of people like Adnan Oktar. Krulwich explains that attractive, easy to read, and cheap creationist textbooks were sold by the thousands to schools in Turkey (despite their strong secular tradition) due to the efforts of Oktar. Astrobiologist David Morrison has spoken of repeated disruption of his work by popular anti-scientific phenomena, having been called upon to assuage public fears of an impending cataclysm involving an unseen planetary object—first in 2008, and again in 2012 and 2017.\n\nMarine biologist and film-maker Randy Olson published \"Don't Be Such a Scientist: Talking Substance in an Age of Style\". In the book he describes how there has been this unproductive negligence when it comes to teaching scientists to communicate. \"Don't be Such a Scientist\" is written to his fellow scientists, and he says they need to \"lighten up\". He adds that scientists are ultimately the most responsible for promoting and explaining science to the public and media. This, Olson says, should be done according to a good grasp of social science; scientists must use persuasive and effective means like story telling. Olson acknowledges that the stories told by scientists need not only be compelling but also accurate to modern science - and says this added challenge must simply be confronted. He points to figures like Carl Sagan as effective popularizers, partly because such figures actively cultivate a likeable image.\n\nScience popularization figures such as Carl Sagan and Neil Degrasse Tyson are partly responsible for the view of science or a specific science discipline within the general public. However, the degree of knowledge and experience a science popularizer has can vary greatly. Because of this, some can depend on sensationalism. As a Forbes contributor put it, \"The main job of physics popularizers is the same as it is for any celebrity: get more famous.\" Because of this variation in experience, research scientists can sometimes question the credibility of science popularizers. Another point in the controversy of popular science is the idea of how public debate can affect public opinion. A relevant and highly public example of this is climate change. A science communication study appearing in the New York Times proves that \"even a fractious minority wields enough power to skew a reader’s perception of a [science news] story” and that even “firmly worded (but not uncivil) disagreements between commenters affected readers’ perception of science.” This causes some to worry that the popularizing of science in the public, questioning whether the further popularization of science will cause pressure towards generalization or sensationalism. Unfortunately, this question will fall to time for an answer.\n\nAs his commencement address to Caltech students, journalist Robert Krulwich delivered a speech entitled \"Tell me a story\". Krulwich says that scientists are actually given many opportunities to explain something interesting about science or their work, and that they must seize such opportunities. He says scientists must resist shunning the public, as Sir Isaac Newton did in his writing, and instead embrace metaphors the way Galileo did; Krulwich suggests that metaphors only become more important as the science gets more difficult to understand. He adds that telling stories of science in practice, of scientists' success stories and struggles, helps convey that scientists are real people. Finally, Krulwich advocates for the importance of scientific values in general, and helping the public to understand that scientific views are not mere opinions, but hard-won knowledge.\n\nActor Alan Alda helps scientists and PhD students get more comfortable with communication with the help of drama coaches (they use the acting techniques of Viola Spolin).\n\nMatthew Nisbet describes the use of opinion leaders as intermediaries between scientists and the public as a way to reach the public via trained individuals who are more closely engaged with their communities, such as \"teachers, business leaders, attorneys, policymakers, neighborhood leaders, students, and media professionals.\" Examples of initiatives that take this approach include Science & Engineering Ambassadors, sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences, and Science Booster Clubs, coordinated by the National Center for Science Education.\n\nIn the preface of \"The Selfish Gene\", Richard Dawkins wrote: \"Three imaginary readers looked over my shoulder while I was writing, and I now dedicate the book to them. [...] First the general reader, the layman [...] second the expert [and] third the student\".\n\nMany criticisms of the public understanding of science movement have emphasized that this thing they were calling the public was somewhat of an (unhelpful) black box. Approaches to the public changed with the move away from the public understanding of science. Science communication researchers and practitioners now often showcase their desire to listen to non-scientists as well as acknowledging an awareness of the fluid and complex nature of (post/late) modern social identities. At the very least, people will use plurals: publics or audiences. As the editor of Public Understanding of Science put it in a special issue on publics:\nWe have clearly moved from the old days of the deficit frame and thinking of publics as monolithic to viewing publics as active, knowledgeable, playing multiple roles, receiving as well as shaping science. (Einsiedel, 2007: 5)\nHowever, Einsiedel goes on to suggest both views of the public are \"monolithic\" in their own way; they both choose to declare what something called the public is. Public understanding of science might have ridiculed publics for their ignorance, but an alternative \"public engagement with science and technology\" romanticizes its publics for their participatory instincts, intrinsic morality or simple collective wisdom. As Susanna Hornig Priest (2009) concludes in her recent introduction essay on science’s contemporary audiences, the job of science communication might be to help non-scientists feel they are not excluded as opposed to always included; that they can join in if they want, rather than that there is a necessity to spend their lives engaging.\n\nThe process of quantifiably surveying public opinion of science is now largely associated with the public understanding of science movement (some would say unfairly). In the US, Jon Miller is the name most associated with such work and well known for differentiating between identifiable ‘attentive’ or ‘interested’ publics (that is to say science fans) and those who do not care much about science and technology. Miller’s work questioned whether the American public had the following four attributes of scientific literacy:\n\nIn some respects, John Durant’s work surveying British public applied similar ideas to Miller. However, they were slightly more concerned with attitudes to science and technology, rather than just how much knowledge people had. They also looked at public confidence in their knowledge, considering issues such as the gender of those ticking \"don’t know\" boxes. We can see aspects of this approach, as well as a more \"public engagement with science and technology\" influenced one, reflected within the Eurobarometer studies of public opinion. These have been running since 1973 to monitor public opinion in the member states, with the aim of helping the preparation of policy (and evaluation of policy). They look at a host of topics, not just science and technology but also defence, the euro, enlargement of the European Union, and culture. Eurobarometer’s recent study of Europeans’ Attitudes to Climate Change is a good example. It focuses on respondents’ \"subjective level of information\"; asking \"personally, do you think that you are well informed or not about…?\" rather than checking what people knew.\n\nScience communication can be analysed through frame analysis, a research method used to analyse how people understand situations and activities.\n\nSome features of this analysis are listed below.\n\nPeople make an enormous number of decisions every day, and to approach all of them in a careful, methodical manner is impractical. They therefore often use mental shortcuts known as \"heuristics\" to quickly arrive at acceptable inferences. Tversky and Kahneman originally proposed three heuristics, listed below, although there are many others that have been discussed in later research. \nThe most effective science communication efforts take into account the role that heuristics play in everyday decision-making. Many outreach initiatives focus solely on increasing the public's knowledge, but studies (e.g. Brossard et al. 2012) have found that there is little – if any – correlation between knowledge levels and attitudes towards scientific issues.\n\nThe simulation heuristic is used to judge how likely certain outcomes are based on the ease with which one can imagine a particular ending. This heuristic can be used for many tasks, including prediction (Will the Jets win this football game?) and causality (Did Jim eat the last slice of pizza?). An application of this heuristic is to the case of near misses. Consider the following example from Kahneman & Tversky:Mr. Crane and Mr. Tees were scheduled to leave the airport on different flights, at the same time. They traveled from town in the same limousine, were caught in a traffic jam, and arrived at the airport thirty minutes after the scheduled departure time of their flights.Mr. Crane is told his flight left on time.Mr. Tees is told that his flight was delayed, and just left five minutes ago.Who is more upset?Mr. Crane or Mr. Tees?Almost everyone says, \"Mr. Tees\", because they cannot imagine how Mr. Crane could have caught his flight, while Mr. Tees might have made it if not for that slow pedestrian, or the exceptionally long security line. The simulation heuristic has this ability to generate \"if only\" conditions, which can be used to understand the negative feelings of frustration, indignation, etc. that arise from near misses such as that of Mr. Tees.\n\nThis simulation of how events \"might\" have occurred is referred to as counterfactual thinking, and can be used to try to identify a unique or unusual circumstance that lead to a dramatic outcome. For example, consider a man who is shot during a robbery while shopping at a convenience store. Subjects will award more damages to a man who was shopping at a store far from his house than they will to a man who was shopping at a store near his home that he commonly visits.\n\nRegarding simulations of future events, simply imagining hypothetical events makes them seem more likely to occur. This phenomenon can be extended to a person's own behavior, as imagining oneself performing or refusing to perform an action causes changes in expectations about one's future behavior. Simulation is \"more likely to increase the perceived likelihood of a potential outcome...than to reduce perceived likelihood of a potential consequence\". Thus, the implications of research on the simulation heuristic are particularly intriguing when designing outreach efforts intended to change behaviors, such as increasing recycling or decreasing fast food consumption.\n\nWhile scientific study began to emerge as a popular discourse following the Renaissance and the Enlightenment, science was not widely funded or exposed to the public until the nineteenth century. Most science prior to this was funded by individuals under private patronage and was studied in exclusive groups, like the Royal Society. Public science emerged due to a gradual social change, resulting from the rise of the middle class in the nineteenth century. As scientific inventions, like the conveyor belt and the steam locomotive entered and enhanced the lifestyle of people in the nineteenth century, scientific inventions began to be widely funded by universities and other public institutions in an effort to increase scientific research. Since scientific achievements were beneficial to society, the pursuit of scientific knowledge resulted in science as a profession. Scientific institutions, like the National Academy of Sciences or the British Association for the Advancement of Science are examples of leading platforms for the public discussion of science. David Brewster, founder of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, believed in regulated publications in order to effectively communicate their discoveries, \"so that scientific students may know where to begin their labours.\" As the communication of science reached a wider audience, due to the professionalization of science and its introduction to the public sphere, the interest in the subject increased.\n\nThere was a change in media production in the nineteenth century. The invention of the steam-powered printing press enabled more pages to be printed per hour, which resulted in cheaper texts. Book prices gradually dropped, which gave the working classes the ability to purchase them. No longer reserved for the elite, affordable and informative texts were made available to a mass audience. Historian Aileen Fyfe noted that, as the nineteenth century experienced a set of that sought to improve the lives of those in the working classes, the availability of public knowledge was valuable for intellectual growth. As a result, there were reform efforts to further the knowledge of the less educated. The Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, led by Henry Brougham, attempted to organize a system for widespread literacy for all classes. Additionally, weekly periodicals, like the \"Penny Magazine\", were aimed to educate the general public on scientific achievements in a comprehensive manner.\n\nAs the audience for scientific texts expanded, the interest in public science did as well. 'Extension lectures' were installed in some universities, like Oxford and Cambridge, which encouraged members of the public to attend lectures. In America, travelling lectures were a common occurrence in the nineteenth century and attracted hundreds of viewers. These public lectures were a part of the lyceum movement and demonstrated basic scientific experiments, which advanced scientific knowledge for both the educated and uneducated viewers.\n\nNot only did the popularization of public science enlighten the general public through mass media, but it also enhanced communication within the scientific community. Although scientists had been communicating their discoveries and achievements through print for centuries, publications with a variety of subjects decreased in popularity. Alternatively, publications in discipline-specific journals were crucial for a successful career in the sciences in the nineteenth century. As a result, scientific journals such as \"Nature\" or \"National Geographic\" possessed a large readership and received substantial funding by the end of the nineteenth century as the popularization of science continued.\n\nScience can be communicated to the public in many different ways. According to Karen Bultitude, a science communication lecturer at University College London, these can be broadly categorised into three groups: traditional journalism, live or face-to-face events, and online interaction. Traditional journalism (for example, newspapers, magazines, television and radio) has the advantage of reaching large audiences; in the past, this is way most people regularly accessed information about science. Traditional media is also more likely to produce information that is high quality (well written or presented), as it will have been produced by professional journalists. Traditional journalism is often also responsible for setting agendas and having an impact on government policy. The traditional journalistic method of communication is one-way, so there can be no dialogue with the public, and science stories can often be reduced in scope so that there is a limited focus for a mainstream audience, who may not be able to comprehend the bigger picture from a scientific perspective. However, there is new research now available on the role of newspapers and television channels in constituting 'scientific public spheres' which enable participation of a wide range of actors in public deliberations.\n\nAnother disadvantage of traditional journalism is that, once a science story is taken up by mainstream media, the scientist(s) involved no longer has any direct control over how his or her work is communicated, which may lead to misunderstanding or misinformation. Research in this area demonstrates how the relationship between journalists and scientists has been strained in some instances. On one hand scientists have reported being frustrated with things like journalists oversimplifying or dramatizing of their work, while on the other hand journalists find scientists difficult to work with and ill-equipped to communicate their work to a general audience. Despite this potential tension, a comparison of scientists from several countries has shown that many scientists are pleased with their media interactions and engage often.\n\nHowever, it is important to note the use of traditional media sources, like newspapers and television, has steadily declined as primary sources for science information, while the internet has rapidly increased in prominence. In 2016, over half of Americans (55 percent) reported using the internet as their primary source to learn about science and technology, compared to 24 percent reporting TV and 4 percent reporting newspapers were their primary sources. Additionally, traditional media outlets have dramatically decreased the number of, or in some cases eliminated, science journalists and the amount of science-related content they publish.\n\nThe second category is live or face-to-face events, such as public lectures (for example, UCL's public lunch hour lectures – museums, debates, science busking, sci-art, science cafes and science festivals. Citizen Science or crowd-sourced science (scientific research conducted, in whole or in part, by amateur or nonprofessional scientists), which can be done with a face-to-face approach, online, or as a combination of the two to engage in science communication. Research has shown that members of the public seek out science information that is entertaining, but also helping citizens to critically participate in risk regulation and S&T governance. Therefore it is important to bear this aspect in mind when communicating scientific information to the public (for example, through events combining science communication and comedy, such as Festival of the Spoken Nerd or during scientific controversies). The advantages of this approach are that it is more personal and allows scientists to interact with the public, allowing for two-way dialogue. Scientists are also better able to control content using this method. Disadvantages of this method include the limited reach, it can also be resource-intensive and costly and also, it may be that only audiences with an existing interest in science will be attracted.\n\nThe third category is online interaction, for example, websites, blogs, wikis and podcasts can also be used for science communication, as can other social media. Online methods of communicating science have the potential to reach huge audiences, can allow direct interaction between scientists and the public, and the content is always accessible and can be somewhat controlled by the scientist. Additionally, online communication of science can help boost scientists' reputation through increased citations, better circulation of articles, and establishing new collaborations. Online communication also allows for both one-way and two-way communication, depending on the audience’s and the author's preferences. However, there are disadvantages in that it is difficult to control how content is picked up by others, and regular attention and updating is needed.\n\nWhen considering whether or not to engage in science communication online, scientists should review what science communication research has shown to be the potential positive and negative outcomes. Online communication has given rise to movements like open science, which advocates for making science more accessible. However, when engaging in communication about science online, scientists should consider not publicizing or reporting findings from their research until it has been peer-reviewed and published, as journals may not accept the work after it has been circulated under the \"Ingelfinger rule\".\n\nOther considerations revolve around how scientsts will be perceived by other scientists for engaging in communication. For example, some scholars have criticized engaged, popular scholars using concepts like the Sagan effect or Kardashian Index. Despite these criticisms, many scientists are taking to communicating their work on online platforms, a sign of potentially changing norms in the field.\n\nBy using Twitter, researchers and academics can discuss and communicate scientific topics with many types of audiences based on various points of view. Some studies indicate that the use of Twitter can positively impact the number of times a scientific article is cited. These studies show that articles that are highly tweeted about are eleven times more likely to be highly cited than those that who few people tweeted.\n\nAs noted in studies by Gunther Eysenbach, research has shed light on how Twitter has a direct link to the advances in the science community. Alison Burt, Editor in chief of Elsevier Connect and author of the article \"How to use social media for science,\" states the potential drawbacks to sharing their research on Twitter.\n\nKimberly Collins of PLOS explains reasons how some scientists are hesitant to join Twitter. Some scientists are hesitant to use social media outlets such as Twitter due to lack of knowledge of the platform, and inexperience with how to make meaningful posts. Some scientists do not see the meaning in using Twitter as a platform to share their research or have the time to add the information into the accounts themselves.\n\nScientists also believe that Twitter is not professional enough for them to put out information as well as receive relevant suggestions and comments back. Scientists did give a positive to using Twitter by (28%) of the scientists who participated in the study said communicating science on Twitter can benefit because of the size and diverse audience it reaches. BoingBoing science editor and New York Times columnist Maggie Koerth-Baker commented on the importance of keeping public and private personas on social media separate in order to maintain professionalism online. According to these findings, posting academic research on a personal social media accounts could potentially send mixed messages to Twitter users.\n\nThere have been occasions where scientific outreach on Twitter has been met with positive results. In September 2017, an 8 year old bug lover was teased at her school for her passion for bugs. This led to the Entomological society of Canada posting a tweet defending her love for bugs called #BugsR4Girls. The ESC’s use of twitter was able to make a statement saying, \"A young girl who loves insects is being bullied & needs our support. DM your email & we'll connect you! #BugsR4Girls\".\n\nIn 2017, a study done by the Pew Research Center of Journalism and Media found that \"About a quarter of social media users follow science related pages and accounts. This group places both more importance and comparatively more trust on science news that comes to them through social media\".\n\nKaren Peterson, director of Scientific Career Development at Fred Hutchinson Cancer research Center stresses the \"importance of using social networks such as Facebook and Twitter to engage in intercommunication\" for establishing an online presence as well. Online presence is necessary for career development. No matter your personality type, career advisors recommend that postdocs use online networking tools to make connections, exchange scientific ideas, and advance a career.\n\nAccording to Nature, \"more than 3,000 scientists and engineers told Nature about their awareness of various giant social media networks and research-profiling sites\". Elena Milani created the SciHashtag project which is a condensed collection of Twitter hashtags regarding science communication and science. Twitter has become a part of researchers’ lives.\n\nThe public understanding of science, public awareness of science and public engagement with science and technology are all terms coined with a movement involving governments and societies in the late 20th century. During the late 19th century, science became a professional subject and influenced by governmental suggestions. Prior to this, public understanding of science was very low on the agenda. However, some well-known figures such as Michael Faraday ran lectures aimed at the non-expert public, his being the famous Christmas Lectures which began in 1825. The 20th century saw groups founded on the basis they could position science in a broader cultural context and allow scientists to communicate their knowledge in a way that could reach and be understood by the general public. In the UK, \"The Bodmer Report\" (or \"The Public Understanding of Science\" as it is more formally known) published in 1985 by The Royal Society changed the way scientists communicated their work to the public. The report was designed to \"review the nature and extent of the public understanding of science in the United Kingdom and its adequacy for an advanced democracy.\". Chaired by the geneticist Sir Walter Bodmer alongside famous scientists such as broadcaster Sir David Attenborough, the report was evidenced by all of the major sectors concerned; scientists, politicians, journalists and industrialists but not the general public. One of the main assumptions drawn from the report was everybody should have some grasp of science and this should be introduced from a young age by teachers who are suitably qualified in the subject area. The report also asked for further media coverage of science including via newspapers and television which has ultimately led to the establishment of platforms such as the Vega Science Trust.\n\nIn both the UK and the United States following the second world war, public views of scientists swayed from great praise to resentment. Therefore, the Bodmer Report highlighted concerns from the scientific community that their withdrawal from society was causing scientific research funding to be weak. Bodmer promoted the communication of science to a wider more general public by expressing to British scientists that it was their responsibility to publicise their research. An upshot of the publication of the report was the creation of the Committee on the Public Understanding of Science (COPUS), a collaboration between the British Association for the Advancement of Science, the Royal Society and the Royal Institution. The engagement between these individual societies caused the necessity for a public understanding of science movement to be taken seriously. COPUS also awarded grants for specific outreach activities allowing the public understanding to come to the fore. Ultimately leading to a cultural shift in the way scientists publicised their work to the wider non-expert community. Although COPUS no longer exists within the UK the name has been adopted in the US by the Coalition for the Public Understanding of Science. An organisation which is funded by the US National Academy of Sciences and the National Science Foundation and focuses on popular science projects such as science cafes, festivals, magazines and citizen science schemes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "210247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210247", "title": "Second Superpower", "text": "Second Superpower\n\n\"Second Superpower\" is a term used to conceptualize a global civil society as a world force comparable to or counterbalancing the United States of America. The term originates from a 2003 \"New York Times\" article which described world public opinion as one of two superpowers.\n\nThe term has also been applied by scholars to the possibility that the People's Republic of China could emerge as a \"second superpower,\" with global power and influence on par with the United States.\n\nOn February 15, 2003 global demonstrations took place against the impending invasion of Iraq. These involved between six and thirty million people and were listed in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" as including the largest anti-war rally in history. In reaction, \"New York Times\" writer Patrick Tyler wrote in a February 17 article that:\n\nThe New York Times article was widely circulated in the peace movement during February 2003, adding to the hope among many participants that galvanizing world public opinion could prevent the Iraq War.\n\nUN Secretary General Kofi Annan began to use the phrase \"two superpowers\" in speeches. In March, \"The Nation\" magazine cover story was titled \"The Other Superpower\". In it, Jonathan Schell wrote:\n\nThough worldwide popular opposition failed to prevent the invasion of Iraq, leading some to reject the notion, the phrase is still popular among people in the anti-war and anti-globalization movements.\n\nOn March 31, 2003, Dr. James F. Moore of Harvard Law School's Berkman Center for Internet and Society posted an essay entitled \"The Second Superpower Rears Its Beautiful Head\". In it, he advocated four ideas: embrace the concept explicitly within the peace movement as an inspirational goal and a counter to the \"first superpower\" idea promoted by the Bush administration, continue to develop blogging and other means of linking the community globally, find ways to influence first superpower institutions including international institutions and international law, and continue to develop reflective personal consciousness so as to be able to lead from love rather than fear.\n\nThis paper received 50,000 downloads in five days. The substance of the piece was debated by a number of authors, including Jonathan Rauch writing in \"National Journal\". Many bloggers linked the paper with Joi Ito's \"Emergent Democracy\" concept and paper.\n\nSome attacked Moore's use of the term to describe primarily the effect of the Internet. Brian Fitzgerald argued in the Greenpeace Weblog:\n\nMoore's paper was the subject of an attack on the dissemination process and the relationship of the author and his reviewers to Google, by Andrew Orlowski of The Register. Orlowski accused a small number of webloggers of \"Googlewashing\", a word Orlowski invented to describe media manipulation of Google to neuter the political significance of the word. He argued:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7758482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7758482", "title": "Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998", "text": "Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998\n\nThe Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998 (c 30) was enacted by the United Kingdom Parliament on 16 July 1998. It enabled universities to charge tuition fees, and established statutory General Teaching Councils (GTC's) for England, Wales and Northern Ireland and the modification the remit of the General Teaching Council for Scotland. The act also made provision for the new system of student loans that were introduced, and introduces paid leave from work for training towards a qualification. The passing of this act repealed the Education (Student Loans) Act 1998, and the sections relating to student finance in the Education Act 1996. The student loans system was later updated in the Higher Education Act 2004.\n\nThe Teaching and Higher Education Act is divided into four parts, which can be summarised as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45302448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45302448", "title": "Teemu Malmi", "text": "Teemu Malmi\n\nTeemu Malmi (born October 17, 1965) is a Finnish organizational theorist, a professor at the Aalto University, Department of Accounting and Finance, and Chairman of the Board of the Aalto University Executive Education. He is known for his research on the use of the balanced scorecard in Finnish companies and his work on management control systems.\n\nBorn in Helsinki, Finland, Malmi took his studies in economics, with a specialization in accounting and finance, at the Helsinki School of Economics. He obtained his MSc in 1990, his Lic.Sc in 1994 and his PhD in 1997 with a thesis entitled \"Adoption and implementation of activity-based costing: practice, problems and motives\".\n\nMalmi has spent most of his academic career at the Helsinki School of Economics, which became the Aalto University School of Business in 2010. He started out as Assistant in the Department of Accounting and Finance in 1990, and became Assistant Professor in 1995, Associate Professor in 1999 and Full Professor since 2001. Since 2011 he also chairs the accounting faculty and since 2013 the Department of Accounting and Finance. On 1 January 2015 he was appointed Jaakko Honko Professor at the School of Business. He was a Visiting Professor at the University of Technology, Sydney in 2003–2005.\n\nMalmi, Teemu. \"Adoption and implementation of activity-based costing: practice, problems and motives.\" Helsinki School of Economics and Business Administration, 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47798559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47798559", "title": "Temple Gate Polytechnic", "text": "Temple Gate Polytechnic\n\nTemple Gate Polytechnic is a pioneer private Nigerian tertiary institution that is accredited by the National Board for Technical Education. The polytechnic is located in Aba, Abia State and it offers National Diploma and Higher Diploma courses in undergraduate levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21845681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21845681", "title": "Thesaurus florentinus", "text": "Thesaurus florentinus\n\nThesaurus Florentinus is a project for the acquisition and reconstruction of the images of the mural paintings in the Cupola of Santa Maria del Fiore in Firenze and a computer system to manage the hundreds of thousand pieces of information gathered during the restoration campaign ended in 1995. The project was conceived by Arch. Riccardo Dalla Negra and realised by Lapo Bertini, Silvia Brotini, Auro Pampaloni, Marco Menichetti, Lara Calosi and Arianna Sacchetti with the technological support of IBM and Eastman Kodak and the financial support of the \"Ministero dei Beni Culturali\" of Italy and Ente Cassa di Risparmio di Firenze. The project started in 1992 and ended in 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "498538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=498538", "title": "University of New Hampshire", "text": "University of New Hampshire\n\nThe University of New Hampshire (UNH) is a public research university in the University System of New Hampshire, in the United States. The university's Durham campus, comprising six colleges, is located in the Seacoast region of the state. A seventh college, the University of New Hampshire at Manchester, occupies the university's campus in Manchester, the state's largest city. The University of New Hampshire School of Law, known as the Franklin Pierce Law Center until 2010, is located in Concord, the state's capital.\n\nThe University of New Hampshire was founded and incorporated in 1866, as a land grant college in Hanover in connection with Dartmouth College. In 1893, UNH moved to Durham.\n\nWith over 15,000 students between its Durham, Manchester, and Concord campuses, UNH is the largest university in the state. UNH is one of only a few universities that is designated a land-, sea-, and space-grant institution. The university's current President is James W. Dean Jr., the 20th President of the University, who took over from Mark Huddleston on June 30, 2018.\n\nThe Morrill Act of 1862 granted federal lands to New Hampshire for the establishment of an agricultural-mechanical college. In 1866, the university was first incorporated as the New Hampshire College of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts in Hanover, New Hampshire, in association with Dartmouth College. The institution was officially associated with Dartmouth College and was directed by Dartmouth's president. Durham resident Benjamin Thompson left his farm and assets to the state for the establishment of an agricultural college. On January 30, 1890, Benjamin Thompson died and his will became public. On March 5, 1891 Gov. Hiram Americus Tuttle signed an act accepting the conditions of Thompson's will. On April 10, 1891, Gov. Tuttle signed a bill authorizing the college's move to Durham, New Hampshire.\n\nIn 1892, the Board of Trustees hired Charles Eliot to draw a site plan for the first five campus buildings: Thompson, Conant, Nesmith, and Hewitt Shops (now called Halls) and the Dairy Barn. Eliot visited Durham and worked for three months to create a plan prior to the move to Durham. The Class of 1892, excited about the pending move to Durham, held commencement exercises in an unfinished barn on the Durham campus. On April 18, 1892, the Board of Trustees voted to \"authorize the faculty to make all the arrangements for the packing and removal of college property at Hanover to Durham.\" The Class of 1893, followed the previous class and held commencement exercises in unfinished Thompson Hall, the Romanesque Revival campus centerpiece designed by the prominent Concord architectural firm of Dow & Randlett.\n\nIn fall 1893, classes officially began in Durham with 51 freshmen and 13 upperclassmen, which was three times the projected enrollment. Graduate study was also established in fall 1893 for the first time. The number of students and the lack of state funds for dormitories caused a housing crunch and forced students to find housing in town. The lack of housing caused difficulty for attracting women to the university. In 1908, construction on Smith Hall, the first women's dorm, was completed using private and state funds. Prior to the construction of Fairchild Hall in 1915 for male students, 50 freshmen lived in the basement of DeMerritt Hall. With the continuing housing shortage for men, the administration encouraged the growth of the UNH Greek system. From the late 1910s through the 1930s, the fraternity system expanded and provided room and board for male students.\n\nIn 1923, Gov. Fred Herbert Brown signed a bill changing the name of the college to University of New Hampshire.\n\nIn the spring of 2015, the university was given $4 million from the estate of Robert Morin, who had been a librarian at the university for almost 50 years. Having lived a frugal and secluded life, he allowed for his life's savings to be given to the university without restraint. In 2016, the news that the university was spending $1 million on a new video screen for the football stadium provoked criticism, on and off-campus, with critics noting that the difference between that amount and the $100,000 the university transferred to the library was jarring. A story on \"Deadspin\" connected the money for the video screen to the amount of money spent on football and other sports at UNH, arguing that UNH had turned a small hobby of Morin's, watching football during the last months of his life, into an excuse to spend a quarter of his gift on a video screen.\n\nThe University of New Hampshire is the flagship of the University System of New Hampshire. UNH is composed of eleven colleges and graduate schools, offering 2,000 courses in over 100 majors. The eight colleges of UNH are:\n\n\nThe university is a member of the New England Board of Higher Education's New England Regional Student Program (NERSP) where New England public universities and colleges offer a number of undergraduate curricula with special considerations to students from other New England states. If an out-of-state student's home state school does not offer a certain degree program offered by UNH, that student can receive the in-state tuition rate, plus 75 percent if enrolled in the program.\n\nThe Thompson School of Applied Science (TSAS), first established in 1895 and now a division of COLSA, confers an associate degree in applied science in seven different programs: Applied Animal Science, Applied Business Management, Civil Technology, Community Leadership, Food Service Management, Forest Technology, and Horticultural Technology.\n\nThe coastal proximity of the university affords excellent programs in marine biology and oceanography. Facilities include the Jackson Estuarine Laboratory at Adams Point in Durham, and the Shoals Marine Laboratory jointly operated with Cornell University on Appledore Island in the Isles of Shoals.\n\nThe University of New Hampshire Observatory is operated by the Department of Physics for educational purposes.\n\nThere are three main university-wide undergraduate research programs: Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP), Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF), and International Research Opportunities Program (IROP).\n\nThe university offers many opportunities for students to study abroad through managed programs, exchange programs and approved programs. As of fall 2004, there were 561 students (4 percent of the student body) studying in 38 different countries. The university runs/manages 22 study abroad programs in locations which include Cambridge, England; London, England; Edinburgh, Scotland; Brest, France; Dijon, France; Grenoble, France; Budapest, Hungary; Osaka, Japan; Utrecht, Netherlands; Maastricht, Netherlands; Ascoli Piceno, Italy; New Zealand; India; South Africa; Kenya; and Granada, Spain. The university also accepts credit from over 300 approved programs that are run through other institutions. The university organizes an annual summer abroad program at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge University. There are also over 100 National Exchange Program opportunities.\n\nIn 2010, the Franklin Pierce Law Center in Concord was incorporated into the University of New Hampshire System and renamed the University of New Hampshire School of Law. It is the only law school in the state of New Hampshire. The School of Law offers Juris Doctor degrees in addition to graduate studies in Intellectual Property and Commerce & Technology. The University of New Hampshire Law School is renowned for its intellectual property law programs, consistently ranking in the top ten of U.S. News & World Report rankings. In 2012, it was ranked 4th behind University of California at Berkeley, Stanford University and George Washington University.\n\nThe Peter T. Paul College of Business and Economics building was opened for occupancy in January 2013. Formerly the Whittemore School of Business and Economics (WSBE), the Paul School offers degrees in Business Administration (featuring focuses in Accounting, Entrepreneurial Venture Creation, Finance, Information Systems Management, International Business and Economics, Management, and Marketing), Hospitality, and Economics (either in B.A. or B.S.)\n\nAs of the 2015 fall semester, the university had 12,840 undergraduate students and 2,500 graduate students enrolled in more than 200 majors. The student body comprises 47% in-state students, 49% out-of-state students, and 4% international students; and is 54% female and 46% male.\n\n\"U.S. News & World Report\" ranks New Hampshire (tied for) 107th among 280 \"national universities.\"\n\nIn 2012, the Department of Education ranked the University of New Hampshire as having the sixth most expensive in-state tuition for a public four-year college. The University of New Hampshire ranks lowest in the country for the amount of subsidy it receives from the state.\n\nThe university is classified as one of the \"Doctoral Universities: Higher Research Activity\" in the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education.\n\nThe University Library consists of the main Dimond Library and three science libraries specializing in chemistry, physics, and computer science, mathematics, and engineering. The Dimond Library has three quiet study reading rooms, seating for 1,200, Zeke’s Café, and the Dimond Academic Commons (DAC), in which is offered computer workstations, IT help, the Connors Writing Center, Geospatial Information Services Center, and research help. Other areas of the library provide access to media equipment, collaborative work spaces, and laptop ports.\n\nThe Chemistry Library (Parsons Hall), the Engineering/Mathematics/Computer Science Library (Kingsbury Hall), and the Physics Library (DeMeritt Hall) offer customized service for the UNH scientific and engineering communities. Each science library offers specialized reference assistance, reserve materials, reference and circulating collections, periodicals, and electronic resources specific to their fields. All science libraries provide WiFi and laptop ports, laptops and computer workstations, as well as other equipment. Parsons, DeMeritt and Kingsbury Libraries have group meeting rooms that students may reserve; all have collaborative as well as quiet areas.\n\nIn addition to more than 2 million volumes and 50,000 periodical subscriptions, the library has an extensive government documents collection, maps, sound recordings, CDs, videos, DVDs, and a Special Collections and Archives section with rare books, manuscripts, and University publications and papers. The Library offers extensive electronic resources including e-books, digital collections, indexes in many subject areas, statistical data sets and databases supplying full-text periodical and newspaper articles.\n\nStudents and staff, mainly belonging to majors of Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, and Computer Science students work at the UNH InterOperability Laboratory, which tests networking and data communication devices and products. The UNH-IOL interviews and accepts applications from students of all majors and varying backgrounds of job experience and expertise.\n\nMore than 100 graduate and undergraduate student employees work with full-time UNH-IOL staff, gaining hands-on experience with developing technologies and products. The companies and organizations that work with the UNH-IOL benefit from cost-effective testing services, as well as the opportunity to recruit future engineers from the UNH-IOL workforce.\n\nThe Carsey School of Public Policy at the University of New Hampshire conducts policy research on vulnerable children, youth, and families and on sustainable community development. They give policy makers and practitioners the timely, independent resources they need to effect change in their communities.\n\nAs with many other universities, the office of the President at UNH has tasked several commissions to gather facts and propose solutions to various issues on campus. Many of these commissions deal with social issues on campus, such as the status of People of Color, People with Disabilities, and LGBTQ. These various commissions are staffed by administrators, faculty, and community members. The commissions meet monthly and report to the President, providing updates on the campus environment, suggesting and improving programs, and working with students, faculty, and outside organizations to improve the quality of life on campus.\n\nThe university has more than 200 student organizations grouped by academics and careers, community service, political and world affairs, arts and entertainment, culture and language, fraternities and sororities, hall councils, honor societies, leisure and recreation, media and publications, religious, special interest, and student activism. Recreation at the University of New Hampshire also includes club and intramural sports. Student activities are largely funded by a Student Activity Fee, set in 2017 at $89 per year for full-time undergraduate students. The use and control of the Student Activity Fee are given by the University System of New Hampshire Board of Trustees to the Student Senate, and one of its subcommittees, the Student Activity Fee Committee.\n\nThe New Hampshire Outing Club, the oldest and largest club on campus, offers trips into the outdoors each weekend. There is also a Dairy Club for people interested in dairy cows and learning more about them.\n\nThe Graduate Student Senate (GSS) represents all graduate students at UNH, with senators elected from all colleges (College of Engineering & Physical Sciences, College of Liberal Arts, College of Life Sciences & Agriculture, College of Health & Human Sciences, Paul College of Business & Economics) as well as from the Graduate School and graduate housing. The executive committee, composed of 6-7 members, includes a President, Vice President, Communications Officer, Financial Affairs Officer, External Affairs Officer, and Community Coordinator, with the most recent Past President serving at the discretion of the current President. Senators and executive committee members serve on both internal and external committees, maintaining ties with other student organizations, as well as with the faculty and administration, in order to gather information and act on behalf of graduate student interests. GSS representation, elections, and other functions are governed by the UNH Graduate Student Senate Constitution & Bylaws.\n\nThe Student Senate of the University of New Hampshire is the on-campus, undergraduate student government. The Student Senate controls the use of the Student Activity Fee, and directly governs student organizations that receive a regular, annual budget from it. The Student Senate also formulates student stances on University policy, and attempts to lobby its position to administrators and the local and state government. According to its Constitution, the Student Senate \"[serves] as an advocate for all undergraduate students, deriving its power from the consent of the governed and developed on the principle that all undergraduate students of the University of New Hampshire have the right to participate in University governance. Such participation encourages the development of student expertise in University affairs and places significant responsibility on students for their involvement with the policies, rules, and regulations which affect the quality of education and the experience of students at the University of New\nHampshire.\"\n\n\"The New Hampshire\" is UNH's weekly student newspaper. New issues appear every Thursday during the academic year.\n\nApproximately 14.6% of undergraduate students are affiliated with fraternities and sororities recognized by the university. The Office of Student Involvement and Leadership, the Interfraternity Council (IFC) and Panhellenic Council (Panhel) oversee the 13 recognized social fraternities and eight recognized social sororities. Many of the fraternities and sororities have houses on Madbury Road and Strafford Avenue in Durham. These houses are not owned by or on university property.\n\nThe student led Diversity Support Coalition (DSC) mission aims to offer resources to groups “affected by institutionalized oppression based on race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, sex, gender identity and expression, age, ability, native language, national origin, and/or religion at UNH”.\n\nThe DSC promotes, educates, and supports multiculturalism, diversity, and equality at UNH through programming efforts and support of the six student organizations within the DSC. The six member groups are Alliance, The Black Student Union, Hillel, Mosaico, The Native American Cultural Association, and The United Asian Coalition. Participation in the DSC is open to all UNH students. The DSC encourages student organizations with similar needs be recognized under the Diversity Support Coalition and may due so by submitting a petition within the guidelines for the DSC constitution. The total membership of the DSC is 200 individuals.\n\nIn addition to the six organizations within the DSC, UNH students run over a dozen groups for the purpose of multiculturalism and peer reference groups. Groups include women in professional fields, country or geographic specific cultural clubs, and international student clubs.\n\nMultiple organizations on campus are focused on providing women in professional fields access to relational and ideational resources promoting success. Women focused groups on campus include Her Campus, UNH Data Driven Women, Women in Business, Society of Woman Engineers, and Women in Science.\n\nCulturally focused groups on campus include Desi Student Association, Japanese Cultural Club, Indonesian Student Association, International Student Organization Middle Eastern Cultural Association, Russian Cultural Club and Vietnamese Student Association. These groups often host events to educate the student body on their cultures and to welcome experts of ancestral crafts. Conversely, the Committee on Rights and Justice (CORAJ) partners UNH student's with local immigrant families, helping them with the naturalization process.\n\nThe University instituted the Navitas program in 2011 to expand the amount of international students at the school. This expanded over the years into the Global Student Success Program (GSSP). The GSSP, in cooperation with the Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS), gives students the support to “help discover opportunities at UNH to immerse in American culture and share your own traditions with others from the U.S. and from around the globe”. The programs guide students through the application process and the extent of their career.\n\nDuring Fall 2015, UNH enrolled 298 Students from 34 different countries. The most common countries of origin are the People's Republic of China, Canada, and Vietnam.\n\nThe school also offers intensive English language education for students through the ESL Institute. As well as advancing student’s knowledge of English as a second-language one of the goals of the ESL Institute is to “to provide students with the cultural knowledge and awareness needed to function satisfactorily, both academically and socially, in the United States”. As of the 2015 year the university had almost 300 students representing the school from over 30 countries.\n\nBegun in 1994, UNH Connect is a program where FGCS (and multicultural students) are given a jump-start to the experiences of college life with a summer pre-orientation program aimed at social connection and comfortability with college life. Each student is assigned a peer mentor who helps with the transition to their freshman year. The program, with 100 students in 2014, also gives FGCS an opportunity to meet people in similar situations prior to the beginning of college.\n\nThe Center For Academic Resources (CFAR) also offers a program called TRIO that is partially funded by the US Department of Education. TRIO is intended for students who are FGCS, have a disability, or are in extreme financial need. Through the TRIO program you can receive services to help understand options for future careers as well as advice with financial aspects of college most FGCS would not have home support with. These include academic tutoring, assistance with student loans, scholarship advise, individual counseling, career planning, and many more. In the 2017-18 school year the UNH TRIO program was funded for 200 students.\n\nThe University of New Hampshire offers two undergraduate degree programs: the Bachelor of Arts in music and the Bachelor of Music; and two graduate degree programs: the Master of Arts in music (concentrations in composition, conducting, and musicology), and the Master of Arts in teaching.\n\nThe school's athletic teams are the Wildcats, and they compete in the NCAA Division I. New Hampshire is a member of the America East Conference for basketball, cross country, track and field, soccer, swimming & diving and tennis; and women's lacrosse, crew, field hockey, and volleyball. The women's gymnastics program competes in the Eastern Atlantic Gymnastics League at the Division I level. They also compete in Hockey East in men's and women's ice hockey, Eastern Collegiate Ski Association for skiing, as well as the Colonial Athletic Association for football at the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS, formerly known as Division I-AA) level.\n\nIn the 2006 academic year the university cut women's crew, men's swimming & diving, and men's and women's tennis at the varsity level, and trimmed the size of the men's ski team from 27 to 12. Luckily the UNH men's ski team was not cut, as they remain one of the top powerhouse teams in the nation. In 2013, the men's alpine team placed second at the NCAA championships. The reason given was that the athletic department would save $500,000 towards a $1 million budget shortfall and be in compliance with Title IX for the first time. In 1997, the university cut baseball, softball, men's and women's golf, and men's lacrosse.\n\nIn addition to varsity athletics, the university offers many club sports through the Department of Campus Recreation, including aikido, archery, baseball, crew, cycling, dance, fencing, figure skating, golf, men's lacrosse, Nordic skiing, rugby, sailing, softball, tennis, taekwondo, men and women's Ultimate Frisbee, wrestling, and the Woodsmen Club. Many of these clubs compete either on an intercollegiate basis with New England teams, or sponsor university tournaments and frequently participate in national championships. UNH also offers horseback riding as a recreation. Many students can take horseback riding lessons with instructors, on their horse or the schools. UNH holds many events each year, for they have a large cross country course. UNH also has a dressage team and a hunt seat team that competes yearly.\n\nThe school's official colors are blue and white. The school's official mascot is the wildcat and its uniformed mascot is known as \"Wild E. Cat\".\n\nThe recognized fight song of UNH is \"On to Victory\", the most current version of which was arranged by Tom Keck, Director of Athletic Bands from 1998–2003. In 2003, \"UNH Cheer\" (originally titled \"Cheer Boys\") was resurrected from the university archives by Erika Svanoe, Director of Athletic Bands from 2003-2006. Based on the school song \"Old New Hampshire\", not to be confused with the New Hampshire state song of the same name, \"UNH Cheer\" currently serves as a secondary fight song and is often performed immediately following \"On to Victory\".\n\nOn October 7, 2006, Wildcats wide receiver David Ball tallied the 51st receiving touchdown of his career to displace Jerry Rice of Mississippi Valley State University, who was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame a month earlier, atop the ranking of NCAA Division I and I-AA players by career receiving touchdowns. He later signed as a rookie free agent with the Chicago Bears and played with well-known college football players Chris Leak and Darius Walker.\n\nThe University of New Hampshire is located in the town of Durham, and is a \"traditional New England campus.\" The Durham campus is , with in the \"campus core\" and of open land on the west edge of campus. The campus core is considered to be the university property within a 10-minute walk from Thompson Hall, the symbolic and near-geographic center of campus. The campus core contains many of the academic and residential buildings, while the outer campus contains much of the agriculture land and buildings. The university owns a total of of land.\n\nThe university offers all underclassmen the opportunity to live in university housing. As of 2006, the university housed 55% of all undergraduate students. While not required to live on campus freshman year, students are strongly encouraged to; as of the fall 2009 semester over 99% of incoming freshmen chose to live on campus, and over 70% of returning sophomores did as well.\n\nThe university offers students a choice of traditional dorm rooms, suites, and on-campus apartments. The university's Campus Master Plan envisions housing about 60% of undergraduates, requiring an addition of 1700 beds. However, the state of New Hampshire does not provide funding for non-academically related buildings, including dormitories.\n\nUndergraduate housing is divided into three areas: The Hills, The Valley and The Timbers (formerly Area I, Area II and Area III, respectively). There are also two undergraduate apartment complexes, The Gables and Woodside Apartments. The university offers family housing in the Forest Park apartments and graduate housing in Babcock Hall. The second oldest dorm on campus is Hetzel Hall, named after the university's former president Ralph D. Hetzel. Built in 1925, it is located near downtown Durham.\n\nFor the fall 2006 semester, two new buildings at The Gables (\"North\" and \"South\") were opened, providing an additional 400 beds. In summer 2006, one-half of Forest Park was demolished to make way for two new buildings (A & B) of the Southeast Residential Community (SERC). Buildings SERC A and SERC B have provided housing for 492 students since fall 2007. Two existing mini-dorms were demolished during summer 2007 (leaving four more mini-dorms) to construct a third building, SERC C, which has provided housing for 235 students since fall 2008. SERC A, B, and C are now referred to as Handler, Peterson, and Haaland Hall. Plans exist to provide 781 new beds by demolishing the remaining 9 buildings (98 units) in Forest Park. Later plans call for the construction of a new 170-unit graduate housing facility at a location to be determined.\n\nDue to the over-enrollment of the 2006–2007 academic year, the university offered students who intended to live in campus housing a free parking pass for the academic year, credit in UNH \"Dining Dollars\" and a refund of the housing deposit given that the student withdrew their intentions to live on campus. The incentive was designed to free up space for the large incoming freshman class.\n\nStoke Hall is the largest residence building on campus. It houses a little over 700 undergraduate students.\n\nIn 2015, UNH installed life-saving automated external defibrillators in two fraternity houses.\n\nThe University of New Hampshire offers themed housing options for students interested in choosing a living environment that best suits their personality. Common themes include: first year, leadership, green living, multi-cultural, honors, chem-free, alcohol and drug-free and the arts.\n\nHousing is guaranteed to all new first-year students, with many of them housed in Christensen Hall and Williamson Hall, the two largest first-year-only halls. Alexander Hall is also an all first-year student hall, specifically for students in the College of Liberal Arts who have not declared a major yet. These halls offer a living environment of commonality, where all are new to the university. The university guarantees students who live on-campus the ability to live on campus all four years. However, students who move off campus (with the exception of students studying abroad) lose this guarantee, and must complete a housing wait-list application each semester in order to be considered for on-campus housing the following semester.\n\nTransfer students can generally get on campus housing if transferring to UNH for the spring semester (but must submit a completed housing wait-list application prior to transferring); however, transfer students transferring for the fall semester have a relatively low chance of getting on campus housing due to the high demand of returning students, and the incoming freshman class. Transfer students are also not guaranteed housing, unless transferring from a community college after graduating with their associates.\n\nAs of March 2015, University of New Hampshire at Manchester is located in the Pandora Mill at 88 Commercial Street, on the banks of the Merrimack River in Manchester's historic Amoskeag Millyard. The move to 88 Commercial Street increased the physical plant of the college by almost 50%, as from 2001 to 2014 the school was located in the University Center building at 400 Commercial Street.\n\nConant Hall was dedicated as a National Historical Chemical Landmark—the first in New Hampshire. Conant Hall was the first chemistry building on the Durham campus, and it was the headquarters of the American Chemical Society from 1907–1911, when Charles Parsons was the society’s secretary. In addition, from 1906–1928, the hall housed the laboratories of Charles James, who was an innovative developer of separation and analytical methods for compounds of rare earth elements. James Hall, the second chemistry building on campus, was named for Charles James.\n\nNotable alumni of the University of New Hampshire include world-renowned author John Irving (B.A. 1965), National Book Award-winning author Alice McDermott (M.A. 1968), filmmaker Jennifer Lee (B.A. 1992) and several former governors of the state of New Hampshire.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17402647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17402647", "title": "Victor de Waal", "text": "Victor de Waal\n\nVictor Alexander de Waal (born 2 February 1929) is a British Anglican priest. He was the Dean of Canterbury from 1976 to 1986.\n\nVictor de Waal was born in Amsterdam, the son of Hendrik de Waal, a Dutch businessman, and Elisabeth, of the Ephrussi family. His mother was born to a well-known Jewish family at the Ephrussi Palace in Vienna; she converted to Christianity, which would not have protected her from the murderous Racial policy of Nazi Germany. Before the outbreak of World War II, the family moved to Britain and stayed there after the war, though retaining for many years their Dutch citizenship.\n\nThe family came to live in Tunbridge Wells when he was a boy and he was educated at Tonbridge School and Pembroke College, Cambridge. His 2nd cousin once removed was the Right Rev. Hugo de Waal, Bishop of Thetford.\n\nHe served as chaplain of King's College, Cambridge from 1959 to 1963 and the University of Nottingham from 1963 to 1969, and chancellor of Lincoln Cathedral. \n\nFrom 1976 to 1986, he served as the Dean of Canterbury.\n\nHe helped with the research into his family history by his son, Edmund de Waal, which culminated in the book \"The Hare with Amber Eyes\".\n\nDe Waal is an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Advanced Research in the Humanities and Social Sciences of the University of Birmingham.\n\nHe married Esther Aline Lowndes-Moir, author (as Esther de Waal) of books on spirituality, especially Celtic. Among their sons are John de Waal, a barrister; Alex de Waal (born 1963), a writer on Africa; Edmund de Waal (born 1964), a ceramic artist; and Thomas de Waal (born 1966), a writer. They later separated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32093207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32093207", "title": "VisualFEA", "text": "VisualFEA\n\nVisualFEA is a finite element analysis program running on MS Windows and Mac OS X platforms. The program is being developed and distributed by Intuition Software, Inc. in South Korea, and is used chiefly for structural and geotechnical analysis. The strongest point of the program is its intuitive and user-friendly usage based on graphical pre- and postprocessing capabilities. VisualFEA has educational functions for teaching and learning structural mechanics and finite element analysis through graphical simulation. Thus, this program is widely used in college courses related to structural mechanics and finite element method.\n\nVisualFEA is a full-fledged finite element analysis program with many easy-to-use but powerful features, which can be classified largely into four parts: finite element processing, pre-processing, post-processing and educational simulation. All the functions are integrated into a single executable module, which is a characteristic of the program distinguished from other finite element analysis programs generally composed of multiple modules. The whole procedure from pre-processing to analysis, and to post-processing can be completed on the spot without launching one program after another, or without pipelining data from one program to another.\n\nVisualFEA can solve the following types of problems.\n\nA finite element model in VisualFEA consists of various objects: curve, primitive surface, node, element and mesh. VisualFEA has its own CAD-like capabilities of creating graphical objects without aid of external programs. VisualFEA can create structured or unstructured meshes in two- or three-dimensional space using the following mesh generation schemes.\nThe program has the function to save the generated mesh data in text format for use by other application programs. Other pre-processing capabilities include the following items.\n\nVisualFEA has various functions of visualizing the numerical data generated by solving the analysis models. The most frequently used graphical representation of the data are the contour and vector images. There are many other forms of graphical representation available in VisualFEA.\n\n\nVisualFEA can be used as a tool for computer-aided education of structural mechanics and finite element method. The tools are operated with the user-created modeling data and their ensuing analysis results on the basis of finite element technology. They are devised to promote the understanding, and to stimulate the interest in the subjects by substantiating the conceptual principles and visually exhibiting the complex computational processes with the aid of interactive computer graphics. The topics covered by the educational functions are as follows.\n\nVisualFEA/CBT is an educational version of the program published by John Wiley and Son's Inc. as a companion program to a textbook on finite element method. The program has the limitation of 3000 nodes that can be handled.\n\n"}
{"id": "29646397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29646397", "title": "Windhoek College of Education", "text": "Windhoek College of Education\n\nThe Windhoek College of Education (now known as the University of Namibia Khomasdal campus) is public university in Khomasdal, Windhoek, Namibia. It opened in 1978 and is one of four national colleges of education.\n\n"}
