{"id": "15315268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15315268", "title": "ABKO Properties", "text": "ABKO Properties\n\nABKO Properties was a joint venture between Wichita, Kansas real estate entrepreneur George Ablah and Wichita-based Koch Industries formed specifically to purchase Chrysler Realty Corporation in the late 1970s from a hard-pressed Lee Iacocca. Koch Industries is ranked 2 among the Forbes list of largest private companies. Chrysler Realty Corporation purchases, leases or options dealership facilities and then leases or subleases these facilities to Chrysler dealers. The name ABKO was derived from the first two letters of Ablah’s name and the first two letters of Charles Koch’s name, who is head of Koch Industries. At the time ABKO was formed, Chrysler was on the verge of bankruptcy.\n\nABKO purchased around 840 Chrysler automotive dealership sites around the country controlled by Iacocca in 1979 for slightly over $100 million in cash. Not all the sites were owned by Chrysler Realty.\n\nUnder the leadership of Ablah and his team, Chrysler Realty president Ed Homer (for a brief time), executive vice president Corliss (Corky) Nelson of Koch, acquisition/disposition specialists Wayne Delfino and Frank Mills, and attorney John Schippel, among others, ABKO set forth a strategy to diversify Chrysler Realty Corporation by way of liquidating non-performing Chrysler dealership properties by tax-free exchange and sale.\n\nIn 1983, Iacocca, assisted by a government bailout he organized, repurchased 446 of the dealerships in a measure aimed at strengthening the Chrysler dealer network. ABKO dissolved shortly thereafter.\n"}
{"id": "4215881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4215881", "title": "Active fire protection", "text": "Active fire protection\n\nActive fire protection (AFP) is an integral part of fire protection. AFP is characterized by items and/or systems, which require a certain amount of motion and response in order to work, contrary to passive fire protection.\n\nFire can be controlled or extinguished, either manually (firefighting) or automatically. Manual control includes the use of a fire extinguisher or a standpipe system. Automatic control means can include a fire sprinkler system, a gaseous clean agent, or firefighting foam system. Automatic suppression systems would usually be found in large commercial kitchens or other high-risk areas.\n\nFire sprinkler systems are installed in all types of buildings, commercial and residential. They are usually located at ceiling level and are connected to a reliable water source, most commonly city water. A typical sprinkler system operates when heat at the site of a fire causes a glass component in the sprinkler head to fail, thereby releasing the water from the sprinkler head. This means that only the sprinkler head at the fire location operates – not all the sprinklers on a floor or in a building. Sprinkler systems help to reduce the growth of a fire, thereby increasing life safety and limiting structural damage.\n\nFire detection works using smoke or heat sensors. These systems are very effective tool at alerting people in the immediate vicinity of where the fire is detected but building regulations require an integrated fire detection system. These system not only alerts people throughout the building by triggering the fire alarm but it can also summon emergency services. There are two types of systems available – addressable and conventional. Addressable systems monitor the specific location of each device (eg smoke detector, call point or sounder). It means in the event of a fire or other emergency you know exactly where the problem is. This saves precious time and helps the emergency services prevent the loss of life and serious damage. Conventional systems can only determine the problem is in a general area and thus are more suited for small sites.\n\nWhen the fire detection system is activated it can also send an alert to the local fire department, broadcast a prerecorded warning message and unlock the buildings access control system.\n\nFire can be prevented by hypoxic air. Hypoxic air fire prevention systems, also known as oxygen reduction systems are new automatic fire prevention systems that reduce permanently the oxygen concentration inside the protected volumes so that ignition or fire spreading cannot occur. Unlike traditional fire suppression systems that usually extinguish fire after it is detected, hypoxic air is able to prevent fires. At lower altitudes hypoxic air is safe to breathe for healthy individuals.\n\nAll AFP systems are required to be installed and maintained in accordance with strict guidelines in order to maintain compliance with the local building code and the fire code.\n\nAFP works alongside modern architectural designs and construction materials and fire safety education to prevent, retard, and suppress structural fires.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "967690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=967690", "title": "Addis Ababa Agreement (1972)", "text": "Addis Ababa Agreement (1972)\n\nThe Addis Ababa Agreement, also known as the Addis Ababa Accord, was a set of compromises within a 1972 treaty that ended the First Sudanese Civil War (1955–1972) fighting in Sudan. The Addis Ababa accords were incorporated in the Constitution of Sudan.\n\nDirect Negotiations between the Government of Sudan and the Southern Sudan Liberation Movement (SSLM) in Addis Ababa were preceded in 1971 by a series of discussions through the intermediation of the All Africa Conference of Churches (AACC) and World Council of Churches (WCC). In Addis Ababa, in 1972, Abel Alier led the delegation representing the Government of Sudan. Ezboni Mondiri led the delegation of the Southern Sudan Liberation Movement (SSLM). The negotiations were moderated by Burgess Carr, who was then the Secretary General of the All Africa Conference of Churches.\n\nThe Agreement had the goal to address and appease concerns of the southern Sudan liberation and secession movement, as the First Sudanese Civil War grew costly in lives and resources to the northern Sudanese government and southern population. The Addis Ababa Agreement's establishment of the Southern Sudan Autonomous Region gave a degree of autonomy. It meant South Sudan would no longer be divided into the three separate regions Al-Istiwāʾiyyah (Equatoria), Baḥr al-Ghazāl, and Aʿālī al-Nīl (Upper Nile). The region would run itself through a separate legislative and executive body. The soldiers of the Anya Nya would be integrated into the Sudanese army and police force. The Addis Ababa Agreement gave Nimeri popularity and prestige both within Sudan and outside of the country. \n\nA decade of relative peace followed, though the Addis Ababa Agreement failed to dispel the tensions that had originally caused civil war. The Addis Ababa Agreement proved to be only temporary respite. Resource infringements and marginalisation by the north led to increased unrest in the south starting in the late 1970s.\n\nIn 1983 President Gaafar Nimeiry declared all Sudan an Islamic state under Shari'a law, including the non-Islamic majority southern region. The Southern Sudan Autonomous Region was abolished on 5 June 1983, ending the Addis Ababa Agreement. This initiated the Second Sudanese Civil War (1983–2005).\n\n"}
{"id": "154125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154125", "title": "Aktion T4", "text": "Aktion T4\n\nAktion T4 (German, ) was a postwar name for mass murder through involuntary euthanasia in Nazi Germany. The name T4 is an abbreviation of \"Tiergartenstraße 4\", a street address of the Chancellery department set up in the spring of 1940, in the Berlin borough of Tiergarten, which recruited and paid personnel associated with T4. Certain German physicians were authorized to select patients \"deemed incurably sick, after most critical medical examination\" and then administer to them a \"mercy death\" (). In October 1939 Adolf Hitler signed a \"euthanasia note\" backdated to 1 September 1939 which authorized his physician Karl Brandt and \"Reichsleiter\" Philipp Bouhler to implement the programme.\n\nThe killings took place from September 1939 until the end of the war in 1945; from 275,000 to 300,000 people were killed at extermination centres in psychiatric hospitals in Germany and Austria, occupied Poland and the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia (now the Czech Republic). The number of victims was originally recorded as 70,273 but this number has been increased by the discovery of victims listed in the archives of former East Germany. About half of those killed were taken from church-run asylums, often with the approval of the Protestant or Catholic authorities of the institutions. The Holy See announced on 2 December 1940 that the policy was contrary to the natural and positive Divine law and that \"the direct killing of an innocent person because of mental or physical defects is not allowed\" but the declaration was not upheld by some Catholic authorities in Germany. In the summer of 1941, protests were led in Germany by Bishop von Galen, whose intervention led to \"the strongest, most explicit and most widespread protest movement against any policy since the beginning of the Third Reich\", according to Richard J. Evans.\n\nSeveral reasons have been suggested for the programme, including eugenics, compassion, reducing suffering, racial hygiene, economy and pressure on the welfare budget. Physicians in German and Austrian asylums continued many of the practices of \"Aktion T4\" until the defeat of Germany in 1945, in spite of its official cessation in August 1941. The informal continuation of the policy led to 93,521 \"beds emptied\" by the end of 1941. Technology developed under \"Aktion T4\" was taken over by the medical division of the Reich Interior Ministry, particularly the use of lethal gas to kill large numbers of people, along with the personnel who had participated in the development of the technology and later participated in Operation Reinhard. \n\nThe technology and personnel developed were instrumental in implementing the Holocaust. The programme was authorized by Hitler but the killings have since come to be viewed as murders in Germany. The number of people killed was about 200,000 in Germany and Austria, with about 100,000 victims in other European countries.\nAt the beginning of the twentieth century, the sterilisation of people carrying what were considered to be hereditary defects and in some cases those exhibiting what was thought to be hereditary \"antisocial\" behaviour, was a respectable field of medicine. Canada, Denmark, Switzerland and the US had passed laws enabling coerced sterilisation. Studies conducted in the 1920s ranked Germany as a country that was unusually reluctant to introduce sterilisation legislation. In his book \"Mein Kampf\" (1924), Hitler wrote that one day racial hygiene \"will appear as a deed greater than the most victorious wars of our present bourgeois era\".\n\nIn July 1933 \"Law for the Prevention of Hereditarily Diseased Offspring\" prescribed compulsory sterilisation for people with conditions thought to be hereditary, such as schizophrenia, epilepsy, Huntington's chorea and \"imbecility\". Sterilisation was also legalised for chronic alcoholism and other forms of social deviance. The law was administered by the Interior Ministry under Wilhelm Frick through special Hereditary Health Courts (), which examined the inmates of nursing homes, asylums, prisons, aged-care homes and special schools, to select those to be sterilised. It is estimated that 360,000 people were sterilised under this law between 1933 and 1939. \n\nThe policy and research agenda of racial hygiene and eugenics were promoted by Emil Kraepelin. The eugenic sterilization of persons diagnosed with (and viewed as predisposed to) schizophrenia was advocated by Eugen Bleuler, who presumed racial deterioration because of “mental and physical cripples” in his \"Textbook of Psychiatry\",\n\nWithin the Nazi administration, the idea of including in the program people with physical disabilities had to be expressed carefully, given that one of the most powerful figures of the regime, Joseph Goebbels, had a deformed right leg. After 1937 the acute shortage of labour in Germany arising from rearmament, meant that anyone capable of work was deemed to be \"useful\" and thus exempted from the law and the rate of sterilisation declined. The term \"Aktion T4\" is a post-war coining; contemporary German terms included \"Euthanasie\" (euthanasia) and \"Gnadentod\" (merciful death). The T4 programme stemmed from the Nazi Party policy of \"racial hygiene\", a belief that the German people needed to be cleansed of racial enemies, which included anyone confined to a mental health facility and people with simple physical disabilities.\n\nKarl Brandt, personal doctor to Hitler and Hans Lammers, the head of the Reich Chancellery, testified after the war that Hitler had told them as early as 1933—when the sterilisation law was passed—that he favoured the killing of the incurably ill but recognised that public opinion would not accept this. In 1935, Hitler told the Leader of Reich Doctors, Gerhard Wagner, that the question could not be taken up in peacetime, \"Such a problem could be more smoothly and easily carried out in war\". He wrote that he intended to \"radically solve\" the problem of the mental asylums in such an event. \"Aktion T4\" began with a \"trial\" case in late 1938. Hitler instructed Brandt to evaluate a family's petition for the \"mercy killing\" of their son who was blind, had physical and developmental disabilities. The child, born near Leipzig and eventually identified as Gerhard Kretschmar, was killed in July 1939. Hitler instructed Brandt to proceed in the same manner in all similar cases.\n\nOn 18 August 1939, three weeks after the killing of the boy, the \"Reich Committee for the Scientific Registering of Hereditary and Congenital Illnesses\" was established. It was to register sick children or newborns identified as defective. The secret killing of infants began in 1939 and increased after the war started; by 1941 more than 5,000 children had been killed. Hitler was in favour of killing those whom he judged to be \"lebensunwertes Leben\" (Life unworthy of life). In a 1939 conference with Leonardo Conti, Reich Health Leader and state secretary for health in the Interior Ministry and Hans Lammers, Chief of the Reich Chancellery—a few months before the \"euthanasia\" decree—Hitler gave as examples the mentally ill who he said could only be \"bedded on sawdust or sand\" because they \"perpetually dirtied themselves\" and \"put their own excrement into their mouths\". This issue, according to the Nazi regime, assumed new urgency in wartime.\n\nAfter the invasion of Poland, Hermann Pfannmüller said\n\nPfannmüller advocated killing by a gradual decrease of food, which he believed was more merciful than poison injections.\nThe German eugenics movement had an extreme wing even before the Nazis came to power. As early as 1920, Alfred Hoche and Karl Binding advocated killing people whose lives were \"unworthy of life\" (\"lebensunwertes Leben\"). Darwinism was interpreted by them as justification of the demand for \"beneficial\" genes and eradication of the \"harmful\" ones. Robert Lifton wrote, \"The argument went that the best young men died in war, causing a loss to the \"Volk\" of the best available genes. The genes of those who did not fight (the worst genes) then proliferated freely, accelerating biological and cultural degeneration\". The advocacy of eugenics in Germany gained ground after 1930, when the Depression was used to excuse cuts in funding to state mental hospitals, creating squalor and overcrowding.\n\nMany German eugenicists were nationalists and antisemites, who embraced the Nazi regime with enthusiasm. Many were appointed to positions in the Health Ministry and German research institutes. Their ideas were gradually adopted by the majority of the German medical profession, from which Jewish and communist doctors were soon purged. During the 1930s the Nazi Party had carried out a campaign of propaganda in favour of euthanasia. The National Socialist Racial and Political Office (NSRPA) produced leaflets, posters and short films to be shown in cinemas, pointing out to Germans the cost of maintaining asylums for the incurably ill and insane. These films included \"The Inheritance\" (\"Das Erbe\", 1935), \"The Victim of the Past\" (\"Opfer der Vergangenheit\", 1937), which was given a major première in Berlin and was shown in all German cinemas, and \"I Accuse\" (\"Ich klage an\", 1941), which was based on a novel by Hellmuth Unger, a consultant for \"child euthanasia\".\n\nIn mid-1939 Hitler authorized the creation of the Reich Committee for the Scientific Registering of Serious Hereditary and Congenital Illnesses (\"Reichsausschuss zur wissenschaftlichen Erfassung erb- und anlagebedingter schwerer Leiden\"), headed by Dr. Karl Brandt, his physician, and administered by Herbert Linden of the Interior Ministry as well as SS-\"Oberführer\" Viktor Brack. Brandt and Bouhler were authorized to approve applications to kill children in relevant circumstances, though Bouhler left the details to subordinates such as Brack and SA-\"Oberführer\" Werner Blankenburg.\n\nExtermination centres were established at six existing psychiatric hospitals: Bernburg, Brandenburg, Grafeneck, Hadamar, Hartheim, and Sonnenstein. One thousand children under the age of 17 were killed at the institutions Am Spiegelgrund and Gugging in Austria. They played a crucial role in developments leading to the Holocaust. As a related aspect of the \"medical\" and scientific basis of this programme, the Nazi doctors took thousands of brains from 'euthanasia' victims for research.\nFrom August 1939, the Interior Ministry registered children with disabilities, requiring doctors and midwives to report all cases of newborns with severe disabilities; the 'guardian' consent element soon disappeared. Those to be killed were identified as \"all children under three years of age in whom any of the following 'serious hereditary diseases' were 'suspected': idiocy and Down syndrome (especially when associated with blindness and deafness); microcephaly; hydrocephaly; malformations of all kinds, especially of limbs, head, and spinal column; and paralysis, including spastic conditions\". The reports were assessed by a panel of medical experts, of whom three were required to give their approval before a child could be killed.\n\nThe Ministry used deceit when dealing with parents or guardians, particularly in Catholic areas, where parents were generally uncooperative. Parents were told that their children were being sent to \"Special Sections\", where they would receive improved treatment. The children sent to these centres were kept for \"assessment\" for a few weeks and then killed by injection of toxic chemicals, typically phenol; their deaths were recorded as \"pneumonia\". Autopsies were usually performed and brain samples were taken to be used for \"medical research\". Post mortem examinations apparently helped to ease the consciences of many of those involved, giving them the feeling that there was a genuine medical purpose to the killings. The most notorious of these institutions in Austria was Am Spiegelgrund, where from 1940 to 1945, 789 children were killed by lethal injection, gas poisoning and physical abuse. Children's brains were preserved in jars of formaldehyde and stored in the basement of the clinic and in the private collection of Heinrich Gross, one of the institution's directors, until 2001.\n\nWhen the Second World War began in September 1939, less rigorous standards of assessment and a quicker approval process were adopted. Older children and adolescents were included and the conditions covered came to include\n\nMore pressure was placed on parents to agree to their children being sent away. Many parents suspected what was happening, especially when it became apparent that institutions for children with disabilities were being systematically cleared of their charges and refused consent. The parents were warned that they could lose custody of all their children and if that did not suffice, the parents could be threatened with call-up for 'labour duty'. By 1941, more than 5,000 children had been killed. The last child to be killed under \"Aktion T4\" was Richard Jenne on 29 May 1945 in the children's ward of the Kaufbeuren-Irsee state hospital in Bavaria, Germany, more than three weeks after U.S. Army troops had occupied the town.\n\nBrandt and Bouhler developed plans to expand the programme of euthanasia to adults. In July 1939 they held a meeting attended by Conti and Professor Werner Heyde, head of the SS medical department. This meeting agreed to arrange a national register of all institutionalised people with mental illnesses or physical disabilities. The first adults with disabilities to be killed en masse by the Nazi regime were Poles. After the invasion on 1 September 1939, adults with disabilities were shot by the SS men of \"Einsatzkommando\" 16, \"Selbstschutz\" and EK-\"Einmann\" under the command of SS-\"Sturmbannführer\" Rudolf Tröger, with overall command by Reinhard Heydrich, during the genocidal Operation Tannenberg. All hospitals and mental asylums of the Wartheland were emptied. The region was incorporated into Germany and earmarked for resettlement by \"Volksdeutsche\" following the German conquest of Poland. In the Danzig (now Gdańsk) area, some 7,000 Polish patients of various institutions were shot and 10,000 were killed in the Gdynia area. Similar measures were taken in other areas of Poland destined for incorporation into Germany. The first experiments with the gassing of patients were conducted in October 1939 at Fort VII in Posen (occupied Poznań), where hundreds of prisoners were killed by means of carbon monoxide poisoning, in an improvised gas chamber developed by Dr Albert Widmann, chief chemist of the German Criminal Police (Kripo). In December 1939, \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler witnessed one of these gassings, ensuring that this invention would later be put to much wider uses.\nThe idea of killing adult mental patients soon spread from occupied Poland to adjoining areas of Germany, probably because Nazi Party and SS officers in these areas were most familiar with what was happening in Poland. These were also the areas where Germans wounded from the Polish campaign were expected to be accommodated, which created a demand for hospital space. The \"Gauleiter\" of Pomerania, Franz Schwede-Coburg, sent 1,400 patients from five Pomeranian hospitals to undisclosed locations in occupied Poland, where they were shot. The \"Gauleiter\" of East Prussia, Erich Koch, had 1,600 patients killed out of sight. More than 8,000 Germans were killed in this initial wave of killings carried out on the orders of local officials, although Himmler certainly knew and approved of them.\n\nThe legal basis for the programme was a 1939 letter from Hitler, not a formal \"Führer's decree\" with the force of law. Hitler bypassed Conti, the Health Minister and his department, who might have raised questions about the legality of the programme and entrusted it to Bouhler and Brandt.\n\nThe killings were administered by Viktor Brack and his staff from \"Tiergartenstraße\" 4, disguised as the \"Charitable Foundation for Cure and Institutional Care\" offices which served as the front and was supervised by Bouhler and Brandt. The officials in charge included Dr Herbert Linden, who had been involved in the child killing programme; Dr Ernst-Robert Grawitz, chief physician of the SS; and August Becker, an SS chemist. The officials selected the doctors who were to carry out the operational part of the programme; based on political reliability as long-term Nazis, professional reputation and sympathy for radical eugenics. The list included physicians who had proved their worth in the child-killing programme, such as Unger, Heinze and Hermann Pfannmüller. The recruits were mostly psychiatrists, notably Professor Carl Schneider of Heidelberg, Professor Max de Crinis of Berlin and Professor Paul Nitsche from the Sonnenstein state institution. Heyde became the operational leader of the programme, succeeded later by Nitsche.\n\nIn early October, all hospitals, nursing homes, old-age homes and sanatoria were required to report all patients who had been institutionalised for five years or more, who had been committed as \"criminally insane\", who were of \"non-Aryan race\" or who had been diagnosed with any on a list of conditions. The conditions included schizophrenia, epilepsy, Huntington's chorea, advanced syphilis, senile dementia, paralysis, encephalitis and \"terminal neurological conditions generally\". Many doctors and administrators assumed that the reports were to identify inmates who were capable of being drafted for \"labour service\" and tended to overstate the degree of incapacity of their patients, to protect them from labour conscription. When some institutions refused to co-operate, teams of T4 doctors (or Nazi medical students) visited and compiled the lists, sometimes in a haphazard and ideologically motivated way. During 1940, all Jewish patients were removed from institutions and killed.\n\nAs with child inmates, adults were assessed by a panel of experts, working at the \"Tiergartenstraße\" offices. The experts were required to make their judgements on the reports, not medical histories or examinations. Sometimes they dealt with hundreds of reports at a time. On each they marked a + (death), a - (life), or occasionally a ? meaning that they were unable to decide. Three \"death\" verdicts condemned the person and as with reviews of children, the process became less rigorous, the range of conditions considered \"unsustainable\" grew broader and zealous Nazis further down the chain of command increasingly made decisions on their own initiative.\n\nThe first gassings in Germany proper took place in January 1940 at the Brandenburg Euthanasia Centre. The operation was headed by Brack, who said \"the needle belongs in the hand of the doctor.\" Bottled pure carbon monoxide gas was used. At trials, Brandt described the process as a \"major advance in medical history\". Once the efficacy of the method was confirmed, it became standardised, and instituted at a number of centres across Germany under the supervision of Widmann, Becker, and Christian Wirth – a Kripo officer who later played a prominent role in the extermination of the Jews as commandant of newly built death camps in occupied Poland. In addition to Brandenburg, the killing centres included Grafeneck Castle in Baden-Württemberg (10,824 dead), Schloss Hartheim near Linz in Austria (over 18,000 dead), Sonnenstein Euthanasia Centre in Saxony (15,000 dead), Bernburg Euthanasia Centre in Saxony-Anhalt and Hadamar Euthanasia Centre in Hesse (14,494 dead). The same facilities were also used to kill mentally sound prisoners transferred from concentration camps in Germany, Austria and occupied parts of Poland.\nCondemned patients were transferred from their institutions to newly built centres in the T4 Charitable Ambulance buses, called the Community Patients Transports Service. They were run by teams of SS men wearing white coats, to give it an air of medical care. To prevent the families and doctors of the patients from tracing them, the patients were often first sent to transit centres in major hospitals, where they were supposedly assessed. They were moved again to \"special treatment\" (\"Sonderbehandlung\") centres. Families were sent letters explaining that owing to wartime regulations, it was not possible for them to visit relatives in these centres. Most of these patients were killed within 24 hours of arriving at the centres, and their bodies cremated. For every person killed, a death certificate was prepared, giving a false but plausible cause of death. This was sent to the family along with an urn of ashes (random ashes, since the victims were cremated \"en masse\"). The preparation of thousands of falsified death certificates took up most of the working day of the doctors who operated the centres.\n\nDuring 1940, the centres at Brandenburg, Grafeneck and Hartheim killed nearly 10,000 people each, while another 6,000 were killed at Sonnenstein. In all, about 35,000 people were killed in T4 operations that year. Operations at Brandenburg and Grafeneck were wound up at the end of the year, partly because the areas they served had been cleared and partly because of public opposition. In 1941, however, the centres at Bernburg and Sonnenstein increased their operations, while Hartheim (where Wirth and Franz Stangl were successively commandants) continued as before. As a result, another 35,000 people were killed before August 1941, when the T4 programme was officially shut down by Hitler. Even after that date, however, the centres continued to be used to kill concentration camp inmates: eventually some 20,000 people in this category were killed.\n\nIn 1971, Gitta Sereny conducted a series of interviews with Stangl, who was in prison in Düsseldorf after having been convicted of co-responsibility for killing 900,000 people as commandant of the Sobibor and Treblinka extermination camps in Poland. Stangl gave Sereny a detailed account of the operations of the T4 programme based on his time as commandant of the killing facility at the Hartheim institute. He described how the inmates of various asylums were removed and transported by bus to Hartheim. Some were in no mental state to know what was happening to them, but many were perfectly sane, and for them various forms of deception were used. They were told they were at a special clinic where they would receive improved treatment, and were given a brief medical examination on arrival. They were induced to enter what appeared to be a shower block, where they were gassed with carbon monoxide (the ruse was also used at extermination camps).\n\nThe SS functionaries and hospital staff associated with \"Aktion T4\" in the German Reich were paid from the central office at \"Tiergartenstrasse\" 4 in Berlin from the spring of 1940. The SS and police from \"SS-Sonderkommando Lange\" responsible for murdering the majority of patients in the annexed territories of Poland since October 1939, took their salaries from the normal police fund, supervised by the administration of the newly formed \"Wartheland\" district; the programme in Germany and occupied Poland was overseen by Heinrich Himmler. Before 2013, it was believed that 70,000 persons were murdered in the euthanasia programme, but the German Federal Archives reported that research in the archives of former East Germany indicated that the number of victims in Germany and Austria from 1939 to 1945 was about 200,000 persons and that another 100,000 persons were victims in other European countries. In the German T4 centres there was at least the semblance of legality in keeping records and writing letters. In Polish psychiatric hospitals no one was left behind. Killings were inflicted using gas-vans, sealed army bunkers and machine guns; families were not informed about the murdered relatives and the empty wards were handed over to the SS.\n\nAfter the official end of the euthanasia programme in 1941, most of the personnel and high-ranking officials, as well as gassing technology and the techniques used to deceive victims, were transferred under the jurisdiction of the national medical division of the Reich Interior Ministry. Further gassing experiments with the use of mobile gas chambers (\"Einsatzwagen\") were conducted at Soldau concentration camp by Herbert Lange following Operation Barbarossa. Lange was appointed commander of the Chełmno extermination camp in December 1941. He was given three gas vans by the \"RSHA\", converted by the Gaubschat GmbH in Berlin and before February 1942, killed 3,830 Polish Jews and around 4,000 Romani, under the guise of \"resettlement\". After the Wannsee conference, implementation of gassing technology was accelerated by Heydrich. Beginning in the spring of 1942, three killing factories were built secretly in east-central Poland. The \"SS\" officers responsible for the earlier \"Aktion T4\", including Wirth, Stangl and Irmfried Eberl, had important roles in the implementation of the \"Final Solution\" for the next two years. The first killing centre equipped with stationary gas chambers modelled on technology developed under \"Aktion T4\" was established at Bełżec in the General Government territory of occupied Poland; the decision preceded the Wannsee Conference of January 1942 by three months.\n\nIn January 1939, Brack commissioned a paper from Professor of Moral Theology at the University of Paderborn, Joseph Mayer, on the likely reactions of the churches in the event of a state euthanasia programme being instituted. Mayer – a longstanding euthanasia advocate – reported that the churches would not oppose such a programme if it was seen to be in the national interest. Brack showed this paper to Hitler in July, and it may have increased his confidence that the \"euthanasia\" programme would be acceptable to German public opinion. Notably, when Sereny interviewed Mayer shortly before his death in 1967, he denied that he formally condoned the killing of people with disabilities but no copies of this paper are known to survive.\n\nThere were those who opposed the T4 programme within the bureaucracy. Lothar Kreyssig, a district judge and member of the Confessing Church, wrote to Gürtner protesting that the action was illegal since no law or formal decree from Hitler had authorised it. Gürtner replied, \"If you cannot recognise the will of the Führer as a source of law, then you cannot remain a judge\", and had Kreyssig dismissed. Hitler had a fixed policy of not issuing written instructions for policies relating to what could later be condemned by international community, but made an exception when he provided Bouhler and Brack with written authority for the T4 programme in his confidential letter of October 1939 in order to overcome opposition within the German state bureaucracy. Hitler told Bouhler that, \"the Führer's Chancellery must under no circumstances be seen to be active in this matter.\" The Justice Minister, Franz Gürtner, had to be shown Hitler's letter in August 1940 to gain his cooperation.\n\nIn the towns where the killing centres were located, many people saw the inmates arrive in buses, saw the smoke from the crematoria chimneys and noticed that the buses were returning empty. In Hadamar, ashes containing human hair rained down on the town. The T4 programme was no secret. Despite the strictest orders, some of the staff at the killing centres talked about what was going on. In some cases families could tell that the causes of death in certificates were false, e.g. when a patient was claimed to have died of appendicitis, even though his appendix had been surgically removed some years earlier. In other cases, several families in the same town would receive death certificates on the same day. In May 1941, the Frankfurt County Court wrote to Gürtner describing scenes in Hadamar where children shouted in the streets that people were being taken away in buses to be gassed.\nDuring 1940, rumours of what was taking place spread and many Germans withdrew their relatives from asylums and sanatoria to care for them at home, often with great expense and difficulty. In some places doctors and psychiatrists co-operated with families to have patients discharged or if the families could afford it, transferred them to private clinics beyond the reach of T4. Other doctors \"re-diagnosed\" patients so that they no longer met the T4 criteria, which risked exposure when Nazi zealots from Berlin conducted inspections. In Kiel, Professor Hans Gerhard Creutzfeldt managed to save nearly all of his patients. Lifton listed a handful of psychiatrists and administrators who opposed the killings; many doctors collaborated, either through ignorance, agreement with Nazi eugenicist policies or fear of the regime.\n\nProtest letters were sent to the Reich Chancellery and the Ministry of Justice, some from Nazi Party members. The first open protest against the removal of people from asylums took place at Absberg in Franconia in February 1941 and others followed. The SD report on the incident at Absberg noted that \"the removal of residents from the Ottilien Home has caused a great deal of unpleasantness\" and described large crowds of Catholic townspeople, among them Party members, protesting against the action. Similar petitions and protests occurred throughout Austria as rumors spread of mass killings at the Hartheim Euthanasia Centre and of mysterious deaths at the children's clinic, \"Am Spiegelgrund\" in Vienna. Anna Wödl, a nurse and mother of child with a disability, vehemently petitioned to Hermann Linden at the Reich Ministry of the Interior in Berlin to prevent her son, Alfred, from being transferred from Gugging, where he lived and which also became a euthanasia center. Wödl failed and Alfred was sent to Am Spiegelgrund, where he was killed on 22 February 1941. His brain was preserved in formaldehyde for \"research\" and stored in the clinic for sixty years.\n\nThe Lutheran theologian Friedrich von Bodelschwingh (director of the Bethel Institution for Epilepsy at Bielefeld) and Pastor Paul-Gerhard Braune (director of the Hoffnungstal Institution near Berlin) protested. Bodelschwingh negotiated directly with Brandt and indirectly with Hermann Göring, whose cousin was a prominent psychiatrist. Braune had meetings with Justice Minister Gürtner, who was always dubious about the legality of the programme. Gürtner later wrote a strongly worded letter to Hitler protesting against it; Hitler did not read it but was told about it by Lammers. Bishop Theophil Wurm, presiding the Evangelical-Lutheran Church in Württemberg, wrote to Interior Minister Frick in March 1940 and the same month a confidential report from the \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (SD) in Austria, warned that the killing programme must be implemented with stealth \"in order to avoid a probable backlash of public opinion during the war\". On 4 December 1940, Reinhold Sautter, the Supreme Church Councillor of the Württemberg State Church, complained to the Nazi Ministerial Councillor Eugen Stähle for the murders in Grafeneck Castle. Stahle said \"The fifth commandment Thou shalt not kill, is no commandment of God but a Jewish invention\".\n\nBishop Heinrich Wienken of Berlin, a leading member of the Caritas Association, was selected by the Fulda episcopal synod to represent the views of the Catholic Church in meetings with T4 operatives. In 2008, Michael Burleigh wrote\n\nDespite a decree issued by the Vatican on 2 December 1940 stating that the T4 policy was \"against natural and positive Divine law\" and that \"The direct killing of an innocent person because of mental or physical defects is not allowed\", the Catholic Church hierarchy in Germany decided to take no further action. Incensed by the Nazi appropriation of Church property in Münster to accommodate people made homeless by an air raid, in July and August 1941 the Bishop of Münster, August von Galen, gave four sermons criticizing the Nazis for arresting Jesuits, confiscating church property and for the euthanasia program. Galen sent the text to Hitler by telegram, calling on\n\nGalen's sermons were not reported in the German press but were circulated illegally as leaflets. The text was dropped by the Royal Air Force over German troops. In 2009, Richard J. Evans wrote that \"This was the strongest, most explicit and most widespread protest movement against any policy since the beginning of the Third Reich\". Local Nazis asked for Galen to be arrested but Goebbels told Hitler that such action would provoke a revolt in Westphalia and Hitler decided to wait until after the war to take revenge.\n\nIn 1986, Lifton wrote, \"Nazi leaders faced the prospect of either having to imprison prominent, highly admired clergymen and other protesters – a course with consequences in terms of adverse public reaction they greatly feared – or else end the programme\". Evans considered it \"at least possible, even indeed probable\" that the T4 programme would have continued beyond Hitler's initial quota of 70,000 deaths but for the public reaction to Galen's sermon. Burleigh called assumptions that the sermon affected Hitler's decision to suspend the T4 program \"wishful thinking\" and noted that the various Church hierarchies did not complain after the transfer of T4 personnel to \"Aktion Reinhard\". Henry Friedlander wrote that it was not the criticism from the Church but rather the loss of secrecy and \"general popular disquiet about the way euthanasia was implemented\" that caused the killing to be suspended.\n\nGalen had detailed knowledge of the euthanasia program by July 1940 but did not speak out until almost a year after Protestants had begun to protest. In 2002, Beth A. Griech-Polelle wrote that,\n\nOn 29 June 1943, Pope Pius XII issued the encyclical \"Mystici corporis Christi\", in which he condemned the fact that \"physically deformed people, mentally disturbed people and hereditarily ill people have at times been robbed of their lives\" in Germany. Following this, in September 1943, a bold but ineffectual condemnation was read by bishops from pulpits across Germany, denouncing the killing of \"the innocent and defenceless mentally handicapped and mentally ill, the incurably infirm and fatally wounded, innocent hostages and disarmed prisoners of war and criminal offenders, people of a foreign race or descent\".\n\nOn 24 August 1941, Hitler ordered the suspension of the T4 killings. After the invasion of the Soviet Union in June, many T4 personnel were transferred to the east to begin work on the final solution to the Jewish question. The projected death total for the T4 program of 70,000 deaths had been reached by August 1941. The termination of the T4 programme did not end the killing of people with disabilities; from the end of 1941, the killing of adults and children continued less systematically to the end of the war on the local initiative of institute directors and party leaders. After the bombing of Hamburg in July 1943, occupants of old age homes were killed. In the post-war trial of Dr. Hilda Wernicke, Berlin, August, 1946, testimony was given that \"500 old, broken women\" who had survived the bombing of Stettin in June 1944 were euthanized at the Meseritz-Oberwalde Asylum. The Hartheim, Bernberg, Sonnenstein and Hardamar centres continued in use as \"wild euthanasia\" centres to kill people sent from all over Germany, until 1945. The methods were lethal injection or starvation, those employed before use of gas chambers. By the end of 1941, about 100,000 people had been killed in the T4 programme. From mid-1941, concentration camp prisoners too feeble or too much trouble to keep alive were murdered after a cursory psychiatric examination under Action 14f13.\n\nAfter the war a series of trials was held in connection with the Nazi euthanasia programme at various places including: Dresden, Frankfurt, Graz, Nuremberg and Tübingen. In December 1946 an American military tribunal (commonly called the Doctors' trial) prosecuted 23 doctors and administrators for their roles in war crimes and crimes against humanity. These crimes included the systematic killing of those deemed \"unworthy of life\", including people with mental disabilities, the people who were institutionalized mentally ill, and people with physical impairments. After 140 days of proceedings, including the testimony of 85 witnesses and the submission of 1,500 documents, in August 1947 the court pronounced 16 of the defendants guilty. Seven were sentenced to death and executed on 2 June 1948, including Brandt and Brack.\n\nThe indictment read in part:\nEarlier, in 1945, American forces tried seven staff members of the Hadamar killing centre for the killing of Soviet and Polish nationals, which was within their jurisdiction under international law, as these were the citizens of wartime allies. (Hadamar was within the American Zone of Occupation in Germany. This was before the Allied resolution of December 1945, to prosecute individuals for \"crimes against humanity\" for such mass atrocities.) Alfons Klein, Karl Ruoff and Wilhelm Willig were sentenced to death and executed; the other four were given long prison sentences. In 1946, newly reconstructed German courts tried members of the Hadamar staff for the murders of nearly 15,000 German citizens at the facility. Adolf Wahlmann and Irmgard Huber, the chief physician and the head nurse, were convicted.\n\n\n\nThe Ministry for State Security of East Germany stored around 30,000 files of \"Aktion T4\" in their archives. Those files became available to the public only after the German Reunification in 1990, leading to a new wave of research on these wartime crimes.\n\nThe German national memorial to the people with disabilities murdered by the Nazis was dedicated in 2014 in Berlin. It is located in the pavement of a site next to the Tiergarten park, the location of the former villa at Tiergartenstrasse 4 in Berlin, where more than 60 Nazi bureaucrats and doctors worked in secret under the \"T4\" program to organize the mass murder of sanatorium and psychiatric hospital patients deemed unworthy to live.\n\nBooks\n\nConferences\n\nJournals\n\nNewspapers\n\nWebsites\nBooks\n\nJournals\n\nWebsites\n\n"}
{"id": "50078015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50078015", "title": "Bathroom bill", "text": "Bathroom bill\n\nA bathroom bill is the common name for legislation or a statute that defines access to public toilets (restrooms)—by transgender individuals. Bathroom bills affect access to sex-segregated public facilities for an individual based on a determination of their sex as defined in some specific way—such as their sex as assigned at birth, their sex as listed on their birth certificate, or the sex that corresponds to their gender identity. A bathroom bill can either be inclusive or exclusive of transgender individuals, depending on the aforementioned definition of their sex.\n\nCritics of bills which exclude transgender individuals from restrooms which conform to their gender identity argue that they do not make public restrooms any safer for cisgender (non-transgender) people, and that they make public restrooms less safe for both transgender people and gender non-conforming cisgender people. Additionally, critics claim there have been no cases of a transgender person attacking a cisgender person in a public restroom, although there has been at least one isolated incident of voyeurism in a fitting room. By comparison, a much larger percentage of transgender people have been verbally, physically, and sexually harassed or attacked by cisgender people in public facilities. For these reasons the controversy over transgender bathroom access has been labeled a moral panic and compared to the antisemitic blood libel.\n\nProponents say such legislation is necessary to maintain privacy, protect what they claim to be an innate sense of modesty held by most cisgender people, prevent voyeurism, assault, molestation, and rape, and retain psychological comfort.\n\nOne bathroom bill, the Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act in North Carolina, was approved as a law in 2016, although portions of the measure were later repealed in 2017 as part of a compromise between the Democratic governor and Republican-controlled Legislature.\n\nAlso in 2016, guidance was issued by the U.S. Departments of Justice and Education stating that schools which receive federal money must treat a student's gender identity as their sex (for example, in regard to bathrooms). However, this policy was revoked in 2017.\n\nPublic opinion regarding \"transgender bathroom rights\" in the United States is mixed, see summary table below.\n\nCritics of bathroom bills have argued that they place transgender people in danger without making cisgender people any safer and that they even make things more dangerous for gender non-conforming cisgender people. The UCLA's Williams Institute has tracked prevalence of crimes in bathrooms since the passage of various protections for the transgender population and has found that there has been no significant change in the number of crimes. Marcie Bianco, writing for Mic, pointed out that there is not a single documented case of a transgender person attacking a cisgender person in a public restroom. Writing for Patheos, Terry Firma argued that there have been more Republican politicians arrested for sex acts in bathrooms than transgender people. The controversy has been labeled a moral panic, and Dan Savage went so far as to call it an \"anti-trans blood libel\".\n\nAccording to the largest U.S. survey of transgender people ever undertaken, carried out by the National Center for Transgender Equality (NCTE) in 2015 with 27,715 respondents, one percent of respondents reported being sexually assaulted in a public restroom for being transgender. Twelve percent reported being verbally harassed in a public restroom, and another one percent reported being non-sexually physically assaulted for being transgender. Nine percent reported being denied the right to use a public restroom consistent with their gender. The NCTE acknowledges that in its report that this survey was undertaken before any bathroom bills had been passed or were in the news.\n\nIn Canada, the New Democratic Party (NDP) has introduced several bills that tried to include gender identity and gender expression among the characteristics protected from discrimination and eligible to be considered in sentencing crimes motivated by hate. These bills were frequently referred to as \"bathroom bills\" by their critics as they would have allowed transgender individuals to use the public facilities corresponding to their gender identity.\n\nIn 2009, NDP MP Bill Siksay introduced Bill C-389 to the 40th Parliament. The bill was passed by the House of Commons in 2011 but was defeated by the Senate.\n\nBill C-279, introduced to the 41st Parliament in 2011 by NDP MP Randall Garrison, was passed and sent to the Senate in March 2013. In 2015, Senator Don Plett introduced three amendments to the bill, one of which exempted public washrooms and changerooms from the bill's protections. The bill was also ultimately defeated in the Senate.\n\nGarrison re-introduced the bill to the 42nd Parliament as Bill C-204.\n\nBill C-16, a similar bill to the NDP bills, was intruded on May 17, 2016 by Federal Minister of Justice Jody Wilson-Raybould to the 42nd Parliament. The bill passed the legislative process in the House of Commons and the Senate, and became law upon receiving Royal Assent on June 19, 2017, coming into force immediately.\n\nIn a landmark 2013 case, the Colorado Civil Rights Division ruled in favor of 6-year-old transgender student Coy Mathis to use the girls' bathroom at her elementary school. It was the first ruling of its kind in the United States and one of the first high-profile transgender rights cases, garnering huge amounts of media attention.\n\nIn May 2016, the United States Department of Justice and the United States Department of Education released a joint guidance on the application of Title IX protections to transgender students. The guidance stated that for the purpose of Title IX, the Department of Justice and the Department of Education treat a student's gender identity as their sex. The guidance was followed by a formal \"Dear Colleague\" letter on May 13.\n\nIn October 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to take up the case of Gavin Grimm, a transgender male student who was barred from using the boys' bathrooms at his high school in Gloucester County, Virginia. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit had previously ruled that Grimm could use these restrooms, but the Supreme Court stayed that decision in August.\n\nAnchorage, Alaska prohibited discrimination based on gender identity in 2015. In 2017, Alaska Family Action proposed a direct initiative bathroom bill that would have overturned protections for transgender individuals. Proposition 1 would have made it legal for \"any employer, public accommodation, or other person to establish and enforce sex-specific standards or policies concerning access to intimate facilities such as locker rooms, showers, changing rooms, and restrooms.\" The measure defines the term sex as \"An individual's immutable biological condition of being male or female, as objectively determined by anatomy and genetics at the time of birth.\" Voters rejected the bill in April 2018.\n\nA bathroom bill was introduced in Alabama on February 7, 2017 by state Senator Phil Williams. The bill, if passed, would require attendants to be present in mixed-gender public bathrooms to ensure that no crimes are committed there.\n\nA 2013 proposed amendment to Arizona bill S.B.1432 would have allowed police to demand identification from anyone suspected of using the 'wrong' public bathrooms or showers, meaning the facilities assigned to the sex not matching the sex on their birth certificate. If found guilty, a person would have been subject to up to 6 months in jail and a $2500 fine under a disorderly conduct charge. The proposal was withdrawn by its sponsor, John Kavanagh.\n\nAB 1266, also known as the \"School Success and Opportunity Act,\" was introduced by Assemblyman Tom Ammiano on February 22, 2013. It requires that pupils be permitted to participate in sex-segregated school programs, activities, and use facilities consistent with their gender identity, without respect to the gender listed in a pupil's records. AB 1266 was approved by Governor Brown on August 12, 2013.\n\nIn September 2016, California Governor Jerry Brown signed a bathroom bill that mandates single-occupancy public bathrooms be gender-neutral in order to enable easier access for transgender people. The law went into effect on March 1, 2017.\n\nIn Colorado, in February 2015, a bill died in committee that proposed banning transgender people from using changing rooms of their gender identity. This bill would have prevented discrimination lawsuits against facility managers who chose to deny entry into facilities to transgender people.\n\nA bathroom bill was introduced in Florida in the spring of 2015 as H.B. 583 by Representative Frank Artiles. Artiles complained that, under laws protecting transgender use of restrooms, \"A man such as myself can walk into the bathroom at LA Fitness while women are taking showers, changing, and simply walk in there.\" His bill would have made it illegal for transgender people to use bathrooms corresponding to their gender identity in restaurants, workplaces, or schools. The consequences would be up to a year in jail and a $1,000 fine. Proponents claimed that the bill was designed to prevent \"assault, battery, molestation, rape, voyeurism, and exhibitionism\". Opponents claimed that the only purpose was to be \"discriminatory\" and to \"criminalize [transgender people] for simply going about their daily lives\". The bill went through two House committees, but did not pass. There were no further bathroom bills filed in the Florida state legislature in 2015 or 2016, but organizations like Equality Florida said in 2017 that they were preparing for the possibility of future bills.\n\nA 2015 proposal in Kentucky would have allowed students to sue their school if they encountered transgender students using the bathroom corresponding to the gender with which they identify. It would have allowed transgender students instead to request special accommodations, including access to single-stall or faculty restrooms. On February 27, 2015, the bill S.B. 76 passed in the Kentucky Senate, but it did not pass the Kentucky House.\n\nMassachusetts prohibited discrimination in sex-segregated facilities based on gender identity in 2016. Voters were asked whether to repeal this law when Question 3 appeared on the ballot on November 6, 2018. This was the first time such a question was put to voters at the state level. The law was upheld by approximately 1.76 million votes for and 834,000 votes against.\n\nA bathroom bill was introduced in Minnesota in 2016.\n\nTwo bathroom bills were introduced in Missouri in 2017.\n\nOn March 19, 2015, Victoria Dooling, a Nevada state representative, proposed a bathroom bill that would apply to public schoolchildren in the state. It later died in committee.\n\nOn March 23, 2016, North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory (R) signed into law the Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act (commonly known as House Bill 2). The law states that in government buildings, individuals (such as students at state-operated schools) may only use restrooms and changing facilities that correspond to the sex identified on their birth certificates. Transgender persons born in North Carolina can obtain modified birth certificates on which their sex is different than what was originally identified at the time of their birth, but only if they have undergone sex reassignment surgery. For those born in other places, the ability to change the sex listed on a birth certificate is governed by their place of birth (which may have substantially different requirements, and in some cases may not allow such changes).\n\nThe bill also overturns an LGBT anti-discrimination ordinance that had been passed by Charlotte, North Carolina, prevents local governments in the state from enacting similar ordinances, and prevents cities from raising their minimum wages higher than that of the state.\n\nOn August 26, 2016, a U.S. District Court judge granted a preliminary injunction, preventing the University of North Carolina from enforcing the restroom provisions of the bill.\n\nOn March 30, 2017, the legislature partially repealed House Bill 2, removing the restrictions on restroom use by transgender individuals. The compromise agreement was criticized by both LGBT rights groups and conservatives.\n\nIn April 2016, Sen. Lee Bright brought a bill (S. 1203) to the South Carolina Senate, that was essentially the same as North Carolina's HB2. The bill would block local governments from passing anti-discriminatory ordinances such as: the use of public bathrooms by gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender individuals. Senator Bright's bill would maintain that public bathrooms be used in accordance to \"biological sex.\" An online poll taken from a news site stated that 75% of voters did not think the bill was necessary. The legislation failed to meet the crossover deadline for bills to pass from one legislative chamber to the other.\n\nIn December 2016, a similar bill was introduced by Rep. Steven Wayne Long in the South Carolina house. (H. 3012)\n\nOn February 16, 2016, the South Dakota Senate voted 20-15 to approve a bathroom bill that, had it passed, would have been the first in the country to require public schoolchildren to use facilities that match the sex they were assigned at birth. On March 1, 2016, the governor of South Dakota, Dennis Daugaard, vetoed the bill. Early in the 2017 legislative session Republican Sen. Lance Russell refiled the bathroom bill but on January 30 he withdrew the bill because of GOP Gov. Dennis Daugaard again promised a veto.\n\nOn April 6, 2016, the Tennessee House Education Administration and Planning Committee, which is part of the Tennessee House of Representatives, approved a bathroom bill that would apply to public schools and colleges in the state and would require students to use a restroom that corresponds with their sex as identified at birth. Before the bill could proceed further, the house sponsor of the bill decided to delay its consideration for a year to allow for further investigation, citing concerns that it could interfere with Title IX funding. In 2017, the bill was re-introduced, but died in the Senate Education Committee.\n\nA bill introduced to the Texas House of Representatives in March 2015 proposed that any student who encountered another student who does not identify with their \"biological sex\" in a shared restroom could be awarded $2,000 in damage reparations for \"mental anguish.\" The school itself would also be liable for failing to take action against known transgender students using their gender identified restroom.\n\nAnother bill, introduced to the Texas House in February 2015, suggested that anyone over the age of 13 years found to be in a public restroom of a gender not their own should be charged with a Class A misdemeanor, spend up to a year in jail, and face a $4000 fine. Under this proposed bill, building managers who repeatedly and knowingly allow transgender individuals to use the facility of their gender identity would also face a fine of up to $10,000.\n\nSeveral bills were filed in both the regular legislative session and first special session of the Texas Legislature in 2017. Sponsored by State Sen. Lois Kolkhorst and championed by Lt. Governor Dan Patrick, the Texas Senate passed SB6 in the regular session and SB3 in the Special Session by a vote of 21-10 largely along party lines (Senator Eddie Lucio Jr. was the only Democrat to vote in favor of each bill). Neither bill went to the House floor for a vote (although SB6 received a hearing by the House's State Affairs committee). SB6 would have limited bathroom access based on the sex listed on one's birth certificate while SB3 would have allowed an individual to use the restroom listed on several state IDs as well (e.g. driver's license or concealed carry license).\n\nThe Speaker of the Texas House Joe Straus voiced his opposition to the bills, citing the economic impact that North Carolina saw while HB2 was law. He was also quoted by a \"New Yorker\" article as saying, \"I'm disgusted by all this. Tell the lieutenant governor I don't want the suicide of a single Texan on my hands.\"\n\nIn September 2018, Kolkhorst indicated that she would try again to pass similar legislation.\n\nOn May 11, 2018, Vermont Gov. Phil Scott signed a bill requiring all single-user public restrooms to be gender-neutral.\n\nIn 2016, Del. Mark Cole sponsored House Bill 663, a bathroom bill restricting public restroom use according to a person's \"anatomical sex\", defined as \"the physical condition of being male or female, which is determined by a person's anatomy\", with violators liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $50. HB663 was introduced on January 11, 2016 and died in committee in February 2016. It was widely reported that HB663 would require adults to inspect the genitals of children before they were allowed to enter the appropriate facilities, but this was dismissed by \"Snopes\" as a misleading interpretation of the bill's text, which states that administrators \"shall develop and implement policies that require every restroom ... that is designated for use by a specific gender to solely be used by individuals whose anatomical sex matches such gender designation.\" Cole sponsored House Bill 781 one day later on January 12, 2016, which used the same wording but substituted \"biological sex\" for \"anatomical sex\". The use of \"biological sex\" allowed for an update via amended birth certificate. HB781 also died in committee in February.\n\nIn early 2017, HB1612, proposed by Republican Bob Marshall would use the \"born sex\" to define which restroom, changing facility, or private area in government buildings was permitted for a given individual. In HB1612, it also stated that individuals that did not use the bathroom of their born sex would be subject to civil action. Additionally, HB1612 required school principals to inform the parents of a child if the child did not wish to identify as their born sex. The bill was killed in subcommittee on January 19, 2017.\n\nIn early 2015, SB 6548, which would prevent transgender individuals from using the bathroom associated with the gender with which they identify was introduced in the senate but failed to pass. In December 2015, Washington State's Human Rights Commission enacted a rule that allowed transgender individuals to use bathrooms conforming with their gender identities. Early in 2016, a bill to overturn the ruling (SB 6443) was voted on in the state Senate, and defeated by a margin of 25-24. An attempt to put a state voter initiative on the November 2016 ballot, I-1515, failed to reach the number of signatures necessary to appear on the ballot. On December 5, 2016, a new bill, HB 1011 was pre-filed in the Washington State House. This bill would prevent transgender individuals from using a bathroom of their gender identity unless they have had sex-reassignment surgery, and would prevent local municipalities from enacting ordinances contradicting the directive.\n\nIn November 2015, Wisconsin held a hearing on a bathroom bill to require public schoolchildren to use facilities that match the sex they were assigned at birth. According to critics, the bill would also violate the federal government's Office for Civil Rights's 2014 statement that federal nondiscrimination law covered gender identity. The following month, the bill was revised to allow public schools to offer gender-neutral bathrooms.\n\n"}
{"id": "3723513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3723513", "title": "Beals v Saldanha", "text": "Beals v Saldanha\n\nBeals v Saldanha, [2003] 3 S.C.R. 416, 2003 SCC 72 is a leading Supreme Court of Canada decision on the conflict of laws, where the Court established the requirements to enforce foreign judgments in Canada. The Court held that foreign judgments were enforceable in Canada where there was a \"real and substantial connection\" between the foreign jurisdiction and the subject matter giving rise to the claim.\n\nGeoffrey and Leueen Saldanha and Dominic Thivy were residents of Ontario and sold lots they owned in Florida to Frederick and Patricia Beals. Beals brought an action against Saldanha and Thivy when it was discovered that the defendants did not actually own the property they sold. A defence was filed with the Court but did nothing afterwards and defaulted. A jury awarded Beals $260,000 in damages.\n\nThivy and Saldanha were informed by a lawyer in Ontario that the judgment could not be enforced and so they did nothing.\n\nSoon Beals brought an action in Ontario to enforce the judgment, which had grown to $800,000 with interest.\n\nAt trial the judgment was denied on the basis that the damages had been improperly assessed. On Appeal the Court allowed the foreign judgment.\n\nThe issue before the Supreme Court was whether a judgment issued by a Court in Florida could be enforced in Ontario, and whether the defendant could seek refuge under section 7 of the \"Charter\".\n\nIn a six to three decision, the Court found that the judgment was enforceable. The Court applied the \"real and substantial connection\" test from the earlier decision of \"Morguard v. De Savoye\" to the international context. The test requires the Court to consider whether the subject-matter of the suit or the person involved had a \"real and substantial\" connection with the country. The Court noted, however, that judgments with sufficient connection will not be enforced if they are contrary to Canadian public policy, contrary to natural justice, or obtained through fraud.\n\nJustice LeBel, in dissent, argued for a strengthening of the available defences. He noted that the result in this case was overly harsh and unfair by imposing an 800,000 judgment on an 8,000 property due to essentially bad luck. He proposed that the real and substantial connection test be modified in the international context to reflect the added hardships imposed on litigating in a foreign country.\n\nIn his view, the defences of fraud and natural justice should be broadened in international matters and an additional residual category should be allowed for injustices that do not easily fit into the main categories using what lower court called a \"judicial sniff test\".\n\nLeBel pointed to a number of examples such as the Hague Conference on foreign judgments had proposed to grant domestic judges to lower foreign punitive damages. and the Loewen case, where a Mississippi jury awarded 500 million in damages against a BC company for anti-competitive practices.\n"}
{"id": "8593863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8593863", "title": "Burton Awards for Legal Achievement", "text": "Burton Awards for Legal Achievement\n\nThe Burton Awards program is run in association with the Library of Congress and co-sponsored by the American Bar Association. The awards are generally selected by professors from Harvard Law School, Yale Law School, Stanford Law School, and Columbia Law School, among others. Judge Richard Posner of the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, Judge Alex Kozinski of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, and Judge Carol Corrigan of the Supreme Court of California are honorary members on the board of directors. In addition, U.S. Senators Cornyn, Bennett, Crapo, and Casey are also honorary members. \nEach year, an elite number of Legal Writing Award winners are chosen from partners at the largest law firms in the nation, as well as Law School Award winners. Other Burton Awards are presented annually which include the \"Book of the Year Award,\" and \"Outstanding Contributions to Legal Writing Education Award.\" Even awards to lawyers in the military are given at the event.\n\nThe award ceremonies are annually held at the Library of Congress in Washington D.C. Prominent officials who have been guest speakers at the event have included Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer, Justice Antonin Scalia, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Justice Sonia Sotomayor and Justice John Paul Stevens (\"retired\"). In the past, other well-known dignitaries have participated in the program including Tom Brokaw, Bob Schieffer, Tim Russert, Chris Matthews, George Will and master of ceremonies, Bill Press. The entertainers have included Jay Leno, Kristen Chenoweth, Bernadette Peters, and Vanessa Williams.\n\n\nThe honorary and distinguished members of the Burton Awards Board of Directors include the following leaders in law: Former Chief Judge Richard Posner, 7th Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals; U.S. Senator John Cornyn; U.S. Senator Robert P. Casey, Jr.; U.S. Senator Mike Crapo; U.S. Senator Michael F. Bennet; Supreme Court; U.S. Senator Christopher Van Hollen: Justice Carol Corrigan of California; Yabo Lin, Partner, Sidley Austin LLP; Jane Sullivan Roberts, Partner, Major, Lindsey & Africa; Lisa Rickard, President, U.S. Chamber Institute for Legal Reform; Thomas L. Sager, Partner, Ballard Spahr LLP; Les Parrette, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Compliance Officer, Novelis Inc.; James M. Rishwain, Jr., Chairman of Emeritus, Pillsbury Winthrop LLP; Betty Whelchel, Head of Public Policy & Regulatory Affairs, BNP Paribas SA; and Stephen R. Mysliwiec, Partner, DLA Piper LLP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4443794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4443794", "title": "Chadian constitutional referendum, 2005", "text": "Chadian constitutional referendum, 2005\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Chad on 6 June 2005. The amendments to the constitution were approved by 66% of voters.\n\nThe proposed amendments to the constitution included the removal of two-term limit on the President, the replacement of the Senate with a Cultural, Economic and Social Council and giving the President powers to amend the constitution.\n\nThe amendments were proposed by incumbent President Idriss Déby, who was due to complete his second term in 2006. In June 2001 Déby had promised to step down after his second term, stating: \"I make a public commitment: I will not be candidate at the 2006 presidential election. I will not change the Constitution [...] What remains to do for me in my last mandate, is to prepare Chad for alternation in government\".\n\nWhile Dèby's Patriotic Salvation Movement (MPS) campaigned for \"yes\", the opposition was divided among those who called for a boycott of the vote and those who called for a \"no\" vote. The abstensionists allied themselves in the Coordination des Partis politiques pour la Défense de la Constitution (CPDC), an alliance of 24 parties including the Rally for Democracy and Progress and the Union for Renewal and Democracy. The parties that campaigned for a \"no\" vote included the Front of Action Forces for the Republic and the Rally for the Republic – Lingui. \n\nThe constitutional amendment allowed Déby to contest the 2006 presidential elections, in which he won a third term.\n"}
{"id": "4882912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4882912", "title": "Contract B", "text": "Contract B\n\nContract B is a concept in Canadian law.\nA Contract B is formed when an Owner formally accepts a Bid or, colloquially, a submission of price. Only a single Contract B is formed between the Owner and the successful bidder. Tied to the concept of Contract A, Contract B is a place holder in the concept, a marker at the end of a formalized process of equitable treatment of both bidders and owners. In many ways it is more of an academic detail within the Contract A - Contract B concept, but can also be thought of as a label for the actual construction contract.\n\n"}
{"id": "4611545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4611545", "title": "Contract of carriage", "text": "Contract of carriage\n\nA contract of carriage is a contract between a carrier of goods or passengers and the consignor, consignee or passenger. Contracts of carriage typically define the rights, duties and liabilities of parties to the contract, addressing topics such as acts of God and including clauses such as \"force majeure\". Among common carriers, they are usually evidenced by standard terms and conditions printed on the reverse of a ticket or carriage document.\n\nIn July 2010, it became widely public that Southwest Airlines had classified mechanical difficulties as an act of God in their contract of carriage, expanding the definition formerly shared with Delta, American, Continental and United. This was later clarified by the airline as mechanical difficulties beyond the airline's control, as for instance the failure of the air traffic control system, or fuel delivery systems operated by airports.\n\nThe rate of passengers who are involuntarily denied boarding is around 1 in 10,000 and has been falling for the 25 years between 1990 and 2015.\n\nAccording to aviation analyst Henry Harteveldt, the airline's Contract of carriage favors the company, not the passenger. Involuntary denial of boarding is not uncommon but removal after boarding because the seat is needed by others is \"exceedingly rare\". Nonetheless, an airline has a right to do so based on the contract, in his view. \"Remember, it is their aircraft and their seat — you're just renting it to get from point A to point B,\" Harteveldt told Business Insider.\n\nCross-border European railway tickets are covered by the CIV conditions of sale.\n\n"}
{"id": "18934647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18934647", "title": "Convention on Psychotropic Substances", "text": "Convention on Psychotropic Substances\n\nThe Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 is a United Nations treaty designed to control psychoactive drugs such as amphetamine-type stimulants, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, and psychedelics signed in Vienna, Austria on 21 February 1971. The Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 did not ban the many newly discovered psychotropics, since its scope was limited to drugs with cannabis, coca, and opium-like effects.\n\nDuring the 1960s such drugs became widely available, and government authorities opposed this for numerous reasons, arguing that along with negative health effects, drug use led to lowered moral standards. The Convention, which contains import and export restrictions and other rules aimed at limiting drug use to scientific and medical purposes, came into force on 16 August 1976. As of 2013, 183 member states are Parties to the treaty. Many laws have been passed to implement the Convention, including the U.S. Psychotropic Substances Act, the UK Misuse of Drugs Act 1971, and the Canadian Controlled Drugs and Substances Act. Adolf Lande, under the direction of the United Nations Office of Legal Affairs, prepared the Commentary on the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. The Commentary, published in 1976, is an invaluable aid to interpreting the treaty and constitutes a key part of its legislative history.\n\nProvisions to end the international trafficking of drugs covered by this Convention are contained in the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. This treaty, signed in 1988, regulates precursor chemicals to drugs controlled by the Single Convention and the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. It also strengthens provisions against money laundering and other drug-related crimes.\n\nInternational drug control began with the 1912 International Opium Convention, a treaty which adopted import and export restrictions on the opium poppy's psychoactive derivatives. Over the next half-century, several additional treaties were adopted under League of Nations auspices, gradually expanding the list of controlled substances to encompass cocaine and other drugs and granting the Permanent Central Opium Board power to monitor compliance. After the United Nations was formed in 1945, those enforcement functions passed to the UN.\n\nIn 1961, a conference of plenipotentiaries in New York adopted the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, which consolidated the existing drug control treaties into one document and added \"Cannabis\" to the list of prohibited plants. In order to appease the pharmaceutical interests, the Single Convention's scope was sharply limited to the list of drugs enumerated in the Schedules annexed to the treaty and to those drugs determined to have similar effects.\n\nDuring the 1960s, drug use increased in Western developed nations. Young people began using hallucinogenic, stimulant, and other drugs on a widespread scale that has continued to the present. In many jurisdictions, police had no laws under which to prosecute users and traffickers of these new drugs; LSD, for instance, was not prohibited federally in the U.S. until 1967.\n\nIn 1968, \"[d]eeply concerned at reports of serious damage to health being caused by LSD and similar hallucinogenic substances,\" the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) passed a resolution calling on nations to limit the use of such drugs to scientific and medical purposes and to impose import and export restrictions. Later that year, the UN General Assembly requested that ECOSOC call upon its Commission on Narcotic Drugs to \"give urgent attention to the problem of the abuse of the psychotropic substances not yet under international control, including the possibility of placing such substances under international control\".\n\nCirca 1969, with use of stimulants growing, ECOSOC noted with considerable consternation that the Commission \"was unable to reach agreement on the applicability of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961 to these substances\". The language of the Single Convention and its legislative history precluded any interpretation that would allow international regulation of these drugs under that treaty. A new convention, with a broader scope, would be required in order to bring those substances under control. Using the Single Convention as a template, the Commission prepared a draft convention which was forwarded to all UN member states. The Secretary-General of the United Nations scheduled a conference for early 1971 to finalize the treaty.\n\nMeanwhile, countries had already begun passing legislation to implement the draft treaty. In 1969, Canada added Part IV to its Food and Drugs Act, placing a set of \"restricted substances,\" including LSD, DMT, and MDA, under federal control. In 1970, the United States completely revamped its existing drug control laws by enacting the Controlled Substances Act (amended in 1978 by the Psychotropic Substances Act, which allows the U.S. drug control Schedules to be updated as needed to comply with the Convention). In 1971, the United Kingdom passed the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971. A host of other nations followed suit. A common feature shared by most implementing legislation is the establishment of several classes or Schedules of controlled substances, similarly to the Single Convention and the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, so that compliance with international law can be assured simply by placing a drug into the appropriate Schedule.\n\nThe conference convened on 11 January 1971. Nations split into two rival factions, based on their interests. According to a Senate of Canada report, \"One group included mostly developed nations with powerful pharmaceutical industries and active psychotropics markets . . . The other group consisted of developing states...with few psychotropic manufacturing facilities\". The organic drugmaking states that had suffered economically from the Single Convention's restrictions on cannabis, coca, and opium, fought for tough regulations on synthetic drugs. The synthetic drug-producing states opposed those restrictions. Ultimately, the developing states' lobbying power was no match for the powerful pharmaceutical industry's, and the international regulations that emerged at the conference's close on 21 February were considerably weaker than those of the Single Convention.\n\nThe Convention's adoption marked a major milestone in the development of the global drug control regime. Over 59 years, the system had evolved from a set of loose controls focused on a single drug into a comprehensive regulatory framework capable of encompassing almost any mind-altering substance imaginable. According to Rufus King, \"It covers such a grab-bag of natural and manufactured items that at every stage of its consideration its proponents felt obliged to stress anew that it would not affect alcohol or tobacco abuse.\"\n\nAs of February 2018, there are 184 state parties to the convention. This total includes 182 member states of the United Nations, the Holy See, and the State of Palestine. The 11 UN member states that are not party to the convention are East Timor, Equatorial Guinea, Haiti, Kiribati, Liberia, Nauru, Samoa, Solomon Islands, South Sudan, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu. Liberia has signed the treaty but has not ratified it.\n\nThe Convention has four Schedules of controlled substances, ranging from Schedule I (most restrictive) to Schedule IV (least restrictive). A list of psychotropic substances, and their corresponding Schedules, was annexed to the 1971 treaty. The text of the Convention does not contain a formal description of the features of the substances fitting in each Schedule, in contrast to the US Controlled Substances Act of 1970, which gave specific criteria for each Schedule in the US system. The amphetamine-type stimulants (ATS), a legal class of stimulants – not all of which are substituted amphetamines – were defined in the 1971 treaty and in subsequent revisions. A 2002 European Parliament report and a 1996 UNODC report on ATS describe the international Schedules as listed below.\n\nA 1999 UNODC report notes that Schedule I is a completely different regime from the other three. According to that report, Schedule I mostly contains hallucinogenic drugs such as LSD that are produced by illicit laboratories, while the other three Schedules are mainly for licitly produced pharmaceuticals. The UNODC report also claims that the Convention's Schedule I controls are stricter than those provided for under the Single Convention, a contention that seems to be contradicted by the 2002 Senate of Canada and 2003 European Parliament reports.\n\nAlthough estimates and other controls specified by the Single Convention are not present in the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, the International Narcotics Control Board corrected the omission by asking Parties to submit information and statistics not required by the Convention, and using the initial positive responses from various organic drug producing states to convince others to follow. In addition, the Convention does impose tighter restrictions on imports and exports of Schedule I substances. A 1970 Bulletin on Narcotics report notes:\n\n sets out a process for adding additional drugs to the Schedules. First, the World Health Organization (WHO) must find that the drug meets the specific criteria set forth in Article 2, Section 4, and thus is eligible for control. Then, the WHO issues an assessment of the substance that includes:\n\"If the World Health Organization finds: (a) That the substance has the capacity to produce (i) (1) A state of dependence, and (2) Central nervous system stimulation or depression, resulting in hallucinations or disturbances in motor function or thinking or behaviour or perception or mood, or (ii) Similar abuse and similar ill effects as a substance in Schedule I, II, III or IV, and (b) That there is sufficient evidence that the substance is being or is likely to be abused so as to constitute a public health and social problem warranting the placing of the substance under international control, the World Health Organization shall communicate to the Commission an assessment of the substance, including the extent or likelihood of abuse, the degree of seriousness of the public health and social problem and the degree of usefulness of the substance in medical therapy, together with recommendations on control measures, if any, that would be appropriate in the light of its assessment.\"\nThe \"Commentary\" gives alcohol and tobacco as examples of psychoactive drugs that were deemed to not fit the above criteria by the 1971 Conference which negotiated the Convention. Alcohol can cause dependence and central nervous depression resulting in disturbances of thinking and behavior, furthermore alcohol causes similar effects as barbiturates, alcohol causes very serious \"public health and social problems\" in many countries, and also alcohol has minimal use in modern medicine. Nevertheless, according to the \"Commentary\":\nSimilarly, tobacco can cause dependence and has little medical use, but it was not considered to be a stimulant or depressant or to be similar to other scheduled substances. Most important, according to the \"Commentary\":\n\nThe Commission on Narcotic Drugs makes the final decision on whether to add the drug to a Schedule, \"taking into account the communication from the World Health Organization, whose assessments shall be determinative as to medical and scientific matters, and bearing in mind the economic, social, legal, administrative and other factors it may consider relevant\". A similar process is followed in deleting a drug from the Schedules or transferring a drug between Schedules. For instance, at its 33rd meeting, the WHO Expert Committee on Drug Dependence recommended transferring tetrahydrocannabinol to Schedule IV of the Convention, citing its medical uses and low abuse potential. However, the Commission on Narcotic Drugs has declined to vote on whether to follow the WHO recommendation and reschedule tetrahydrocannabinol. The UN Economic and Social Council, as a parent body of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, can alter or reverse the Commission's scheduling decisions.\n\nIn the event of a disagreement about a drug's Scheduling, Article 2, Paragraph 7 allows a Party to, within 180 days of the communication of the Commission's decision, give the UN Secretary-General \"a written notice that, in view of exceptional circumstances, it is not in a position to give effect with respect to that substance to all of the provisions of the Convention applicable to substances in that Schedule.\" This allows the nation to comply with a less stringent set of restrictions. The U.S. Controlled Substances Act's \"21 U.S.C. § 811(d)(4)\" implies that placing a drug in Schedule IV or V of the Act is sufficient to \"carry out the minimum United States obligations under paragraph 7 of article 2 of the Convention\". This provision, which calls for temporarily placing a drug under federal drug control in the event the Convention requires it, was invoked in 1984 with Rohypnol (flunitrazepam). Long before abuse of the drug was sufficiently widespread in the United States to meet the Act's drug control criteria, rohypnol was added to the Schedules of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, and the U.S. government had to place rohypnol in Schedule IV of the Controlled Substances Act in order to meet its minimum treaty obligations.\n\nAs of March 2005, 111 substances were controlled under the Convention.\n\nIn 1998, ephedrine was recommended for control under the Convention. The Dietary Supplement Safety and Science Coalition lobbied against control, stressing the drug's history and safety, and arguing that \"ephedrine is not a controlled substance in the US today, nor should it be internationally\". After a two-year debate, the Expert Committee on Drug Dependence decided against regulating ephedrine. However, the Commission on Narcotics Drugs and the International Narcotics Control Board listed the drug as a Table I precursor under the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, a move that did not require WHO approval.\n\nThe Expert Committee on Drug Dependence cautiously began investigating ketamine at its thirty-third meeting, noting, \"Its use in veterinary medicine must also be considered in relation to its control\". Ketamine remains uncontrolled internationally, although many nations (e.g. USA and UK) have enacted restrictions on the drug.\n\nThe Expert Committee's evaluation of MDMA during its 22nd meeting in 1985 was marked by pleas from physicians to allow further research into the drug's therapeutic uses. Paul Grof, chairman of the Expert Committee, argued that international control was not yet warranted, and that scheduling should be delayed pending completion of more studies. The Expert Committee concluded that because there was \"insufficient evidence to indicate that the substance has therapeutic usefulness,\" it should be placed in Schedule I. However, its report did recommend more MDMA research:\n\nMDMA was added to the convention as a Schedule I controlled substance in February 1986.\n\nMBDB (Methylbenzodioxolylbutanamine) is an entactogen with similar effects to MDMA. The thirty-second meeting of the WHO Expert Committee on Drug Dependence (September 2000) evaluated MBDB and recommended against scheduling.\n\nFrom the WHO Expert Committee assessment of MBDB:\n\nCirca 1994, the United States government notified the UN Secretary General that it supported controlling methcathinone, an addictive stimulant manufactured with common household products, as a Schedule I drug under the Convention. The FDA report warned of the drug's dangers, even noting that addicts in Russia were observed to often have \"potassium permanganate burns on their fingers\" and to \"tend not to pay attention to their appearance, thus looking ragged with dirty hands and hair\". With methcathinone having no medical use, the decision to place the drug in Schedule I was uncontested.\n\nTraditionally, the UN has been reluctant to control nicotine and other drugs traditionally legal in Europe and North America, citing tolerance of a wide range of lifestyles. This contrasts with the regulatory regime for other highly addictive drugs. Gabriel G. Nahas, in a Bulletin on Narcotics report, noted:\nNonetheless, in October 1996, the Expert Committee considered controlling nicotine, especially products such as gum, patches, nasal spray, and inhalers. The UN ultimately left nicotine unregulated. Since then, nicotine products have become even more loosely controlled; Nicorette gum, for instance, is now an over-the-counter drug in the United States.\n\nTetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main active ingredient in cannabis, was originally placed in Schedule I when the Convention was enacted in 1971. At its twenty-sixth meeting, in response to a 1987 request from the Government of the United States that THC be transferred from Schedule I to Schedule II, the WHO Expert Committee on Drug Dependence recommended that THC be transferred to Schedule II, citing its low abuse potential and \"moderate to high therapeutic usefulness\" in relieving nausea in chemotherapy patients. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs rejected the proposal. However, at its twenty-seventh meeting, the WHO Expert Committee again recommended that THC be moved to Schedule II. At its 45th meeting, on 29 April 1991, the Commission on Narcotic Drugs approved the transfer of dronabinol and its stereochemical variants from Schedule I to Schedule II of the Convention, while leaving other tetrahydrocannabinols and their stereochemical variants in Schedule I.\n\nAt its thirty-third meeting (September 2002), the WHO Committee issued another evaluation of the drug and recommended that THC be moved to Schedule IV, stating:\nNo action was taken on this recommendation. And at its thirty-fourth meeting the WHO Committee recommended that THC be moved instead to Schedule III. In 2007 the Commission on Narcotic Drugs decided not to vote on whether to reschedule THC, and they requested that the WHO make another review when more information is available.\n\n2C-B is a psychedelic phenethylamine. At its thirty-second (September 2000) meeting the WHO Expert Committee on Drug Dependence recommended that 2C-B be placed in Schedule II, rather than with other scheduled psychedelics in Schedule I.\n\nThe committee stated that \"[t]he altered state of mind induced by hallucinogens such as 2C-B may result in harm to the user and to others\", but did not cite any evidence.\n\nFrom the WHO Expert Committee assessment of 2C-B:\n\nLike the Single Convention, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances recognizes scientific and medical use of psychoactive drugs, while banning other uses. provides that,\n\nIn this sense, the U.S. Controlled Substances Act is stricter than the Convention requires. Both have a tightly restricted category of drugs called Schedule I, but the US Act restricts medical use of Schedule I substances to research studies, while the Convention allows broader, but limited, medical use of Schedule I substances.\n\nSeveral of the substances originally placed in Schedule I are psychedelic drugs which are contained in natural plants and fungi (such as peyote and psilocybin mushrooms) and which have long been used in religious or healing rituals. The Commentary notes the \"Mexican Indian Tribes Mazatecas, Huicholes and Tarahumaras\" as well as the \"Kariri and Pankararu of eastern Brazil\" as examples of societies that use such plants.\n\nHowever, the official \"Commentary on the Convention on Psychotropic Substances\" makes it clear that psychedelic plants (and indeed any plants) were not included in the original Schedules and are not covered at all by the Convention. This includes \"infusion of the roots\" of \"Mimosa tenuiflora\" (M. hostilis; which contains DMT) and \"beverages\" made from psilocybin mushrooms. The purpose of Paragraph 4 of Article 32 was to allow States to \"make a reservation assuring them the right to permit the continuation of the traditional use in question\" in the case that plants were in the future added to the Schedule I. Currently, no plants or plant products are included in the Schedules of the 1971 Convention.\n\nFurthermore, in a letter, dated 13 September 2001, to the Dutch Ministry of Health, Herbert Schaepe, Secretary of the UN International Narcotics Control Board, clarified that the UN Conventions do not cover \"preparations\" of psilocybin mushrooms:\nAs you are aware, mushrooms containing the above substances are collected and abused for their hallucinogenic effects. As a matter of international law, no plants (natural material) containing psilocine and psilocybin are at present controlled under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971. Consequently, preparations made of these plants are not under international control and, therefore, not subject of the articles of the 1971 Convention. However, criminal cases are decided with reference to domestic law, which may otherwise provide for controls over mushrooms containing psilocine and psilocybin. As the Board can only speak as to the contours of the international drug conventions, I am unable to provide an opinion on the litigation in question.\n\nNonetheless, in 2001 the U.S. Government, in \"Gonzales v. O Centro Espirita Beneficente Uniao do Vegetal\", argued that ayahuasca, an infusion of Mimosa hostilis and other psychoactive plants that is used in religious rituals, was prohibited in the US because of the 1971 Convention. That case involved a seizure by U.S. Customs and Border Protection of several drums of DMT-containing liquid. Plaintiffs sued to have the drugs returned to them, claiming that they used it as a central part of their religion.\n\nIn the discussions on , noted in the Official Record of the 1971 Conference, the representative from the United States supported the explicit exemption of sacred psychoactive substances, stating: \"Substances used for religious services should be placed under national rather than international control\", while the representative of the Holy See observed: \"If exemptions were made in favour of certain ethnic groups, there would be nothing to prevent certain organizations of hippies from trying to make out, on religious grounds, that their consumption of psychotropic substances was permissible.\"\n\nThe Commentary on the Convention on Psychotropic Substances notes that while many plant-derived chemicals are controlled by the treaty, the plants themselves are not:\n\nMexico, in particular, argued that \"production\" of psychotropic drugs should not apply to wild-growing plants such as peyote cacti or psilocybin mushrooms. The Bulletin on Narcotics noted that \"Mexico could not undertake to eradicate or destroy these plants\". Compared to the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs (which calls for \"uprooting of all coca bushes which grow wild\" and governmental licensing, purchasing, and wholesaling of licit opium, coca, and cannabis crops), the Convention on Psychotropic Substances devotes few words to the subject of psychoactive plants.\n\nOn 2 July 1987, the United States Assistant Secretary of Health recommended that the Drug Enforcement Administration initiate scheduling action under the Controlled Substances Act in order to implement restrictions required by cathinone's Schedule I status under the Convention. The 1993 DEA rule placing cathinone in the CSA's Schedule I noted that it was effectively also banning khat:\n\nA 1971 Bulletin on Narcotics notes:\nThis provision was eventually judged to be inadequate, and was strengthened by the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances's precursor control regime, which established two Tables of controlled precursors. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs and International Narcotics Control Board were put in charge of adding, removing, and transferring substances between the Tables.\n\nCirca 1999, the Government of Spain proposed amending Schedules I and II to include isomers, esters, ethers, salts of isomers, esters and ethers, and any \"substance resulting from modification of the chemical structure of a substance already in Schedule I or II and which produced pharmacological effects similar to those produced by the original substances\". The WHO opposed this change. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs did amend the Schedules to include stereoisomerisms, however, with the understanding that \"specific isomers that did not have hazardous pharmacological activity and that posed no danger to society could be excluded from control, as dextromethorphan had been in the case of Schedule I of the 1961 Convention.\"\n\n provides:\n\nConspiracy, attempts, preparatory acts, and financial operations related to drug offenses are also called on to be criminalized. Parties are also asked to count convictions handed down by foreign governments in determining recidivism. Article 22 also notes that extradition treaties are \"desirable\", although a nation retains the right to refuse to grant extradition, including \"where the competent authorities consider that the offence is not sufficiently serious.\"\n\nAs with all articles of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, the provisions of Article 22 are only suggestions which do not override the domestic law of the member countries:\n\n allows Parties, in implementing the Convention's penal provisions, to make exceptions for drug abusers by substituting \"treatment, education, after-care, rehabilitation and social reintegration\" for imprisonment. This reflects a shift in focus in the war on drugs from incarceration to treatment and prevention that had already begun to take hold by 1971. Indeed, in 1972, a parallel provision allowing treatment for drug abusers was added to the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs by the Protocol Amending the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.\n\nControl of stimulants has become a major challenge for the UN. In 1997, the World Drug Report warned:\nA 1998 UN General Assembly Special Session on the World Drug Problem report noted:\nThe report mentioned proposals to increase the flexibility of scheduling drugs under the Convention and to amend the drug-control treaties to make them more responsive to the current situation. Neither proposal has gained traction, however. Due to the ease of manufacturing methamphetamine, methcathinone, and certain other stimulants, control measures are focusing less on preventing drugs from crossing borders. Instead, they are centering on increasingly long prison sentences for manufacturers and traffickers as well as regulations on large purchases of precursors such as ephedrine and pseudoephedrine. The International Narcotics Control Board and Commission on Narcotic Drugs help coordinate this fight by adding additional precursors to the Tables of chemicals controlled under the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances.\n\nIn 1997, ECOSOC called on nations to help enforce international law by cooperating \"with relevant international organizations, such as Interpol and the World Customs Organization . . . in order to promote coordinated international action in the fight against illicit demand for and supply of amphetamine-type stimulants and their precursors.\" That resolution also called on governments overseeing precursor exports \"to inquire with the authorities of importing States about the legitimacy of transactions of concern, and to inform the International Narcotics Control Board of the action taken, particularly when they do not receive any reply to their inquiries\".\nPockets of high-intensity clandestine production and trafficking, such as rural southwest Virginia, exist in most industrialized nations. However, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime believes that East Asia (particularly Thailand) now has the most serious amphetamine-type stimulant (ATS) problem in the world. A 2002 report by that agency noted:\nThe Office called on nations to bring more resources to bear in the demand reduction effort, improving treatment and rehabilitation processes, increasing private sector participation in eliminating drugs from the workplace, and expanding the drug information clearing house to share information more effectively.\n\nIn 2000, the International Narcotics Control Board chastised Canada for refusing to comply with the Convention's requirement that international transactions in controlled psychotropics be reported to the Board. INCB Secretary Herbert Schaepe said:\n\nIn an unusual departure from its normally pro-industry leanings, the INCB issued a press release in 2001 warning of excessive use of licit psychotropics:\n\nThe Board also warned that the Internet provides \"easy access to information on drug production and drug-taking,\" calling it \"a growing source of on-line drug trafficking.\" The Board pointed out that some Internet suppliers sell controlled drugs without regard to the Convention's medical prescription requirements.\n\nSource: INCB Green List (28th Edition, 2017, PDF version)\n\nAll Schedules consist of 116 positions and common generalization clause for salts. Schedule I also contains generalization clause for stereoisomers. There are also 2 specific generalizations, both for tetrahydrocannabinol stereochemical variants. There are no exclusions.\n\nContains 62 positions (including 1 position for six tetrahydrocannabinol isomers), generalization clause for stereoisomers, specific generalization for tetrahydrocannabinol stereochemical variants and common generalization clause for salts.\n\nPhenethylamine psychedelics:\n\nTryptamine psychedelics:\n\nStimulants:\n\nSynthetic cannabinoids:\n\nIsomers of natural tetrahydrocannabinol:\n\nDissociatives:\n\nErgolines:\n\nThe stereoisomers of substances in Schedule I are also controlled, unless specifically excepted, whenever the existence of such\nstereoisomers is possible within the specific chemical designation.\n\nSalts of all the substances covered by the four schedules, whenever the existence of such salts is possible, are also under international control.\n\nContains 17 positions, specific generalization for tetrahydrocannabinol stereochemical variants and common generalization clause for salts.\n\nStimulants:\n\nPhenethylamine psychedelics:\n\nNatural cannabinols:\n\nDepressants (barbiturates):\n\nDepressants (qualones):\n\nDissociatives:\n\nOther:\n\nSalts of all the substances covered by the four schedules, whenever the existence of such salts is possible, are also under international control.\n\nContains 9 positions and common generalization clause for salts.\n\nDepressants (barbiturates):\n\nDepressants (benzodiazepines):\n\nDepressants (other):\n\nSemisynthetic agonist–antagonist opioids:\n\nSynthetic agonist–antagonist opioids – benzomorphans:\n\nStimulants:\n\nSalts of all the substances covered by the four schedules, whenever the existence of such salts is possible, are also under international control.\n\nContains 62 positions and common generalization clause for salts.\n\nDepressants (barbiturates):\n\nDepressants (benzodiazepines):\n\nDepressants (carbamates):\n\nDepressants (other):\n\nStimulants:\n\nDrugs with both stimulant and opioid effects:\n\nSalts of all the substances covered by the four schedules, whenever the existence of such salts is possible, are also under international control.\n\n\nThe following are scheduled by Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.\n\nCannabis:\n\nCoca leaf, cocaine and ecgonine:\n\nAll other drugs scheduled by the narcotic convention are agonist-only opioids (and natural sources of them).\n\nPlants being the source of substances scheduled by this convention are not scheduled (see Psychedelic plants and fungi and Organic plants sections).\n\nPartial list of psychotropic substances currently or formerly used in medicine, but not scheduled:\n\nOf course there are also many designer drugs, not used in medicine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39905283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39905283", "title": "Copyright in the Dominican Republic", "text": "Copyright in the Dominican Republic\n\nThe Dominican Republic is a signatory to the Berne Convention, and the basic law on copyright is contained in \"Law No. 65-00 on Copyright of August 21, 2000\" as supplemented by the \"Regulations of Application of the Law No. 65-00 on Copyright, as enacted on March 14, 2001\".\n"}
{"id": "21283547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21283547", "title": "Creative Commons-licensed content directories", "text": "Creative Commons-licensed content directories\n\nCreative Commons is maintaining a content directory wiki of organizations and projects using Creative Commons licenses. On its website CC also provides case studies of projects using CC licenses across the world. CC licensed content can also be accessed through a number of content directories and search engines.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4997501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4997501", "title": "Cumberland Law Review", "text": "Cumberland Law Review\n\nThe Cumberland Law Review is a law review published by the students at Cumberland School of Law in Birmingham, Alabama.\n\nFounded in 1970, the \"Review\" publishes two issues a year, with each issue averaging between 150 and 200 pages. Each issue consists of any combination of tributes, articles, essays, notes, and comments. Generally, an issue includes at least one article, note and comment. Occasionally a part of an issue or an entire issue is devoted to a single topic. In 2016, for instance, the \"Review\" published a symposium on Harper Lee's books \"Go Set a Watchman\" and \"To Kill a Mockingbird.\" \n\nThe Review also hosts an annual symposium where The Review hosts speakers on topics of interest and importance to the practicing bar. On November 17, 2016, The Review successfully hosted its symposium, Alcohol in Alabama. The event was held at Cahaba Brewing Company in Birmingham, and featured speakers on the topics of Dram Shop Act liability, DUI, and alcohol regulation.\n\nMembers of the \"Review\" staff are selected by write-on and bluebook examination from the top 15 percent of the freshman class. The process for selection is known as the Candidates Program. The first phase is the bluebook examination. If the student achieves an acceptable score the student may then participate in the Candidates Writing Competition. The student must draft a casenote and submit it to the board for review. A student must successfully complete both phases to earn a membership on the Law Review. Members perform cite checks, must attend mandatory meetings, and later draft a Comment of publishable quality.\n"}
{"id": "200749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200749", "title": "Declaration of Breda", "text": "Declaration of Breda\n\nThe Declaration of Breda (dated 4 April 1660) was a proclamation by Charles II of England in which he promised a general pardon for crimes committed during the English Civil War and the Interregnum for all those who recognised Charles as the lawful king; the retention by the current owners of property purchased during the same period; religious toleration; and the payment of pay arrears to members of the army, and that the army would be recommissioned into service under the crown. The first three pledges were all subject to amendment by acts of parliament.\n\nThe declaration was written in response to a secret message sent by General George Monck, who was then in effective control of England. On 1 May 1660, the contents of the declaration and accompanying letters were made public. The next day Parliament passed a resolution that \"government ought to be by King, Lords and Commons\" and Charles was invited to England to receive his crown. On 8 May Charles was proclaimed King. On the advice of Monck, the commons rejected a resolution put forward by jurist Matthew Hale (a member for Gloucestershire) for a committee to be formed to look into the concessions offered by Charles and to negotiate conditions with the King such as those put forward to his father in the treaty of Newport.\n\nThe declaration was named after the city of Breda in the Netherlands. It was actually written in the Spanish Netherlands, where Charles had been residing since March 1656; however, at the time of writing, England had been at war with Spain since 1655. To overcome the difficulties, both practical and in terms of public relations, of a prospective King of England addressing his subjects from enemy territory, Monck advised Charles to relocate himself to the United Netherlands, and to date his letters as if they were posted from Breda. Charles left Brussels, his last residence in the Spanish Netherlands, and passing through Antwerp arrived in Breda on 4 April, and resided there until 14 May. Then he travelled to The Hague, where he was received by the States General of the Netherlands as a ruling King of England and grandiosely entertained, and departed for England on 2 June from Scheveningen on the \"HMS Royal Charles\", the former \"Naseby\" which was renamed on arrival at the Dutch coast. The declaration, however (actually several letters, addressed to Monck, the Houses of Parliament, and the City of London), was despatched as soon as Charles had crossed the border of the Dutch Republic, and was dated 4 April (OS)/14 April (NS).\n\nThe declaration was drawn up by Charles and his three chief advisors, Edward Hyde, James Butler, and Nicholas Monck, in order to state the terms by which Charles hoped to take up \"the possession of that right which God and Nature hath made our due\".\n\nThe declaration promised a \"free and general pardon\" to any old enemies of Charles and of his father who recognised Charles II as their lawful monarch, \"excepting only such persons as shall hereafter be excepted by parliament\". However it had always been Charles's expectation, or at least that of his chancellor, Edward Hyde (later Earl of Clarendon), that all who had been immediately concerned in his father's death should be punished, and even while at a disadvantage, while professing pardon and favour to many, he had constantly excepted the regicides. Once Charles was restored to the throne, on his behalf Hyde steered the Indemnity and Oblivion Act through parliament. The act pardoned most who had sided with Parliament during the Civil War, but excepted the regicides, two prominent unrepentant republicans, John Lambert and Henry Vane the Younger, and around another twenty were forbidden to take any public office or sit in Parliament.\n\nIn the declaration Charles promised religious toleration in areas where it did not disturb the peace of the kingdom, and an act of parliament for the \"granting of that indulgence\". However parliament chose to interpret the threat of peace to the kingdom to include the holding of public office by non-Anglicans. Between 1660 and 1665 the Cavalier Parliament passed four statutes that became known as the Clarendon Code. These severely limited the rights of Roman Catholics and nonconformists, such as the Puritans who had reached the zenith of their influence under the Commonwealth, effectively excluding them from national and local politics.\n\nThe declaration undertook to settle the back-pay of General Monck's soldiers. The landed classes were reassured that establishing the justice of contested grants and purchases of estates that had been made \"in the continued distractions of so many years and so many and great revolutions\" was to be determined in Parliament. Charles II appeared to have \"offered something to everyone in his terms for resuming government\".\n\nCopies of the Declaration were delivered to both houses of the Convention Parliament by John Grenville. Other copies with separate covering letters were delivered to Lord General George Monck to be communicated to the Lord President of the Council of State and to the Officers of the Army under his command, and to the Generals of the \"Navy at Sea\" and to the Lord Mayor of London.\n\nSeveral warships of the Royal Navy would later be named HMS \"Breda\" after the declaration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29274139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29274139", "title": "Djiboutian constitutional referendum, 1992", "text": "Djiboutian constitutional referendum, 1992\n\nAn constitutional referendum was held in Djibouti on 4 September 1992. The new constitution would restore multi-party democracy for the first time since independence. A second question asked voters whether the number of political parties should be limited to four. Both were approved by over 97.9% of voters with a 75.2% turnout. The first multi-party elections were held in December that year.\n"}
{"id": "874190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=874190", "title": "Drug Abuse Resistance Education", "text": "Drug Abuse Resistance Education\n\nDrug Abuse Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.) is an education program that seeks to prevent use of controlled drugs, membership in gangs, and violent behavior. It was founded in Los Angeles in 1983 as a joint initiative of then-LAPD chief Daryl Gates and the Los Angeles Unified School District as a demand-side drug control strategy of the American War on Drugs.\n\nStudents who enter the program sign a pledge not to use drugs or join gangs and are informed by local police officers about the dangers of recreational drug use in an interactive in-school curriculum which lasts ten weeks.\n\nD.A.R.E. America's operating revenue has declined from $10 million in 2002 to $3.7 million in 2010 following the publication of government reports that uniformly discredited the effectiveness of the program. D.A.R.E. implemented a new curriculum based on work by Penn State and Arizona State researchers.\n\nIts American headquarters is in Inglewood, California. D.A.R.E. expanded to Great Britain in 1995. The D.A.R.E. program has received a substantial amount of criticism since its creation.\nDare instructors of the D.A.R.E. curriculum are local police officers who must undergo 80 hours of special training in areas such as child development, classroom management, teaching techniques, and communication skills. For high school instructors, 40 hours of additional training are prescribed. Police officers are invited by the local school districts to speak and work with students. Police officers are permitted to work in the classroom by the school district and do not need to be licensed teachers. There are programs for different age levels. Working with the classroom teachers, the officers lead students over a number of sessions on workbooks and interactive discussions. The Surgeon General reports that positive effects have been demonstrated regarding attitudes towards the police. The D.A.R.E. program's use of police officers in schools alleviates some children's concerns about situations like school shootings and other threats of violence to children while at school.\n\nIn 2007, a new curriculum for prescription drug abuse and over-the-counter drug abuse was created by D.A.R.E. America. Other contributors included: law enforcement officials; PhRMA; Abbott Laboratories; the Consumer Healthcare and Products Association (CHPA); and a number of other organizations, including the ONDCP, the DEA, the FDA, the NIDA, the SAMHSA Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (SAMHSA/CSAT) and the Partnership for a Drug-Free America.\n\nIn 2009, D.A.R.E. adopted their implementation of Penn State University's \"keepin' it REAL\" middle school curriculum, an evidence-based curriculum listed on the National Registry of Evidence-based Programs and Practices (NREPP). \"keepin' it REAL\" is now being implemented in the US and worldwide by D.A.R.E.\nKeepin' it REAL has been developed since the late 90s at Arizona State University as well as at Penn State University.\n\nThe program's mascot is a lion named Daren. In various cartoons and media productions, his voice is performed by Michael Glover.\n\nStarting in 4th, 5th, or 6th grade, elementary students are given lessons to act in their own best interest when facing high-risk, low-gain choices and to resist peer pressure and other influences in making their personal choices regarding: Tobacco Smoking, Tobacco advertising, Drug Abuse, Inhalants, alcohol consumption and health, and Peer Pressure in a Social Network.\n\nIn 6th, 7th and 8th grades, the new \"keepin' it REAL\" middle school lessons are enhanced with activities on Teen OTC (over-the-counter)/Prescription Drug Abuse, Methamphetamine, Bullying, Gangs, Internet Safety, and more. Beginning in the fall of 2009, D.A.R.E. officers across the nation began to teach The keepin' it REAL program which was developed in partnership with Penn State University.\n\nIn senior high school, D.A.R.E. is a reinforcement and \"Equal emphasis is placed on helping students to recognize and cope with feelings of anger without causing harm to themselves or others and without resorting to violence or the use of alcohol and drugs.\"\n\nAccording to the D.A.R.E. website, 36 million children around the world —26 million in the U.S. — are part of the program. The program is implemented in 75% of the nation's school districts, and 43 countries around the world. D.A.R.E. was one of the first national programs promoting zero tolerance.\n\nA number of local police departments D.A.R.E. programs have police cars marked as DARE cars to promote their program. The D.A.R.E. cars appear at schools and in parades. Typically these cars are high-end or performance cars that have been seized in a drug raid. They are used to send the message that drug dealers forfeit all their glamorous trappings when they get caught. D.A.R.E. cars can also be regular police vehicles that are nearing the end of their service life, pressed into service for the promotion, or new police cars outfitted especially for the D.A.R.E. program.\n\nD.A.R.E. America is funded largely as a crime prevention program working through education within schools. Over the years contributors have included the U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Department of State, U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, U.S. Bureau of Justice Administration, U.S. Office of Justice and Delinquency Prevention, corporations, foundations, individuals and other sources. In addition, state training and local programs typically receive funding from state legislature appropriations, state agencies, counties, cities, school districts, police agencies, individuals, and community fund raisers and other sources.\n\nD.A.R.E. programs are now delivered in the UK by Life Skills Education Charity., a community interest company set up in 2011. D.A.R.E. Courses currently available include the D.A.R.E. Primary programme, the secondary school Keepin' it REAL programme, the community-based D.A.R.E. Active programme and the newly updated D.A.R.E. Game.\n\nD.A.R.E. began its life in the UK in 1995 after the CEO of Mansfield District Council saw it being delivered in Mansfield, Ohio whilst on an exchange visit. The program was fully introduced within Nottinghamshire following 2 years of successful trials. To operate on a more independent basis, Drug Abuse Resistance Education (UK) Ltd was established as a registered charity and delivered it's programmed to over 320,000 young people until the organization was dissolved.\n\nAll D.A.R.E. programs were adopted by Life Skills Education C.I.C. with the agreement of D.A.R.E. International in September 2011 and delivery into schools in the East Midlands has continued unaffected.\n\nDARE Primary is a life skills and drug education program for 9-11-year-olds. The course, consisting of 10 one-hour sessions, aims to provide children with knowledge, skills, and an opportunity to explore attitudes, to help them to make informed decisions, and to develop safe and healthy lifestyles. Topics covered include, tobacco, alcohol, cannabis, volatile substances, bullying, anti-social behavior, and different types of pressure. Children look at normative beliefs about alcohol and tobacco. The sessions are interactive and provide a range of learning opportunities through individual activities, teamwork, discussions, storyboards, and appropriate role play. DARE Primary can be delivered by:\n\n\"• DARE Officer (Serving or former Police Officer, Police Community Support Officer, or School Officer--- a school liaison officer)\"\n\n\"• Teacher and DARE Officer where the Officer attends every other week (called 50/50).\nIt also becomes part of the Health Unit in most schools. \"\n\n\"• Teacher delivered (Teachers receive training from DARE)\"\n\nEach pupil is provided with a DARE workbook for use during the course. DARE Officers and Teachers (where the Teacher delivered option is chosen) are provided with session guides. An important part of the program is the graduation ceremony which is an opportunity for families and schools to celebrate the children's achievements.\n\nThe Primary program is now being delivered in the East Midlands, the City of London, part of the Metropolitan Police area, the Falkland Islands and by the Royal Military Police in Germany, Cyprus and Malta.\n\nAn independent randomized control sample evaluation of the D.A.R.E. Primary program was carried out in 2015/2016 using a sample of over 50 schools and 1500 young people. The evaluation was carried out by Nottingham Trent University's Professor Andromachi Tseloni and showed that the program had a significantly statistic effect on:\nTeachers have routinely rated the programme as 'Good' or 'Outstanding' and parents and young people rate it as 7.5 out of 10 in most cases.\n\nDARE Active is principally led by DARE Champions, members of the community (professional and nonprofessional) who are actively involved in teaching, training, supporting or coaching young people and are trained and licensed by DARE UK to deliver the resource. DARE Active consists of eight sessions which can be delivered as an eight-week program or stand alone (a modular approach). It includes an optional celebration of achievement where guests can be invited to share the celebration or speak in a role model capacity. This opportunity lends itself to the local Policing teams attending and reinforcing some of the key messages.\n\n\n\nDARE UK is planning the launch of a Secondary school program during 2011 so it is available during the new academic year, Autumn, 2011. The curriculum and resources (including high-quality DVD) will be an adaptation of the DARE America Middle School program developed by Penn State University, USA. Current developments are taking place to ensure relevance and suitability for the UK.\n\nIt will follow on from the DARE Primary curriculum (although this is not essential) and is designed to help young people in years 7 and 8 deal with the many challenges they face during the transition. It is expected that the program will be delivered by teachers and DARE Officers.\n\nResearchers at Indiana University, commissioned by Indiana school officials in 1992, found that those who completed the D.A.R.E. program subsequently had significantly higher rates of hallucinogenic drug use than those not exposed to the program.\n\nIn 1994, three RTI International scientists evaluated eight previously-done quantitative analyses on DARE's efficacy that were found to meet their requirements for rigor. The researchers found that DARE's long-term effect couldn't be determined, because the corresponding studies were \"compromised by severe control group attrition or contamination.\" However, the study concluded that in the short-term \"DARE imparts a large amount of information, but has little or no impact on students' drug use,\" and that many smaller, interactive programs were more effective.\n\nAfter the 1994 Research Triangle Institute study, an article in the Los Angeles Times stated that the \"organization spent $41,000 to try to prevent widespread distribution of the RTI report and started legal action aimed at squelching the study.\" The director of publication of the \"American Journal of Public Health\" told \"USA Today\" that \"D.A.R.E. has tried to interfere with the publication of this. They tried to intimidate us.\"\n\nIn 1995, a report to the California Department of Education by Joel Brown Ph. D. stated that none of California's drug education programs worked, including D.A.R.E. \"California's drug education programs, D.A.R.E. being the largest of them, simply don't work. More than 40 percent of the students told researchers they were 'not at all' influenced by drug educators or programs. Nearly 70 percent reported neutral to negative feelings about those delivering the antidrug message. While only 10 percent of elementary students responded to drug education negatively or indifferently, this figure grew to 33 percent of middle school students and topped 90 percent at the high school level.\" In some circles educators and administrators have admitted that DARE in fact potentially increased students exposure and knowledge of unknown drugs and controlled substances, resulting in experimentation and consumption of narcotics at a much younger age. Criticism focused on failure and misuse of tax-payer dollars, with either ineffective or negative result state-wide. \nIn 1998, a grant from the National Institute of Justice to the University of Maryland resulted in a report to the NIJ, which among other statements, concluded that \"D.A.R.E. does not work to reduce substance use.\" D.A.R.E. expanded and modified the social competency development area of its curriculum in response to the report. Research by Dr. Dennis Rosenbaum in 1998 found that D.A.R.E. graduates were more likely than others to drink alcohol, smoke tobacco and use illegal drugs. Psychologist Dr. William Colson asserted in 1998 that D.A.R.E. increased drug awareness so that \"as they get a little older, they (students) become very curious about these drugs they've learned about from police officers.\" The scientific research evidence in 1998 indicated that the officers were unsuccessful in preventing the increased awareness and curiosity from being translated into illegal use. The evidence suggested that, by exposing young impressionable children to drugs, the program was, in fact, encouraging and nurturing drug use. Studies funded by the National Institute of Justice in 1998, and the California Legislative Analyst's Office in 2000 also concluded that the program was ineffective.\n\nA ten-year study was completed by the Donald R. Lynam and colleagues in 2006 involving one thousand D.A.R.E. graduates in an attempt to measure the effects of the program. After the ten-year period, no measurable effects were noted. The researchers compared levels of alcohol, cigarette, marijuana and the use of illegal substances before the D.A.R.E. program (when the students were in sixth grade) with the post D.A.R.E. levels (when they were 20 years old). Although there were some measured effects shortly after the program on the attitudes of the students towards drug use, these effects did not seem to carry on long term.\n\nIn 2001, the Surgeon General of the United States, David Satcher M.D. Ph.D., placed the D.A.R.E. program in the category of \"Ineffective Primary Prevention Programs\". The U.S. General Accounting Office concluded in 2003 that the program was sometimes counterproductive in some populations, with those who graduated from D.A.R.E. later having higher than average rates of drug use (a boomerang effect).\n\nIn March 2007, the D.A.R.E. program was placed on a list of treatments that have the potential to cause harm in clients in the APS journal, \"Perspectives on Psychological Science\".\n\nCarol Weiss, Erin Murphy-Graham, Anthony Petrosino, and Allison G. Gandhi, \"The Fairy Godmother—and Her Warts: Making the Dream of Evidence-Based Policy Come True,\" American Journal of Evaluation, Vol. 29 No.1, 29–47(2008) Evaluators sometimes wish for a Fairy Godmother who would make decision makers pay attention to evaluation findings when choosing programs to implement. The U.S. Department of Education came close to creating such a Fairy Godmother when it required school districts to choose drug abuse prevention programs only if their effectiveness was supported by \"scientific\" evidence. The experience showed advantages of such a procedure (e.g., reduction in support for D.A.R.E., which evaluation had found wanting) but also shortcomings (limited and in some cases questionable evaluation evidence in support of other programs). Federal procedures for identifying successful programs appeared biased. In addition, the Fairy Godmother discounted the professional judgment of local educators and did little to improve the fit of programs to local conditions. Nevertheless, giving evaluation more clout is a worthwhile way to increase the rationality of decision making. The authors recommend research on procedures used by other agencies to achieve similar aims.\n\n\"The Social Construction of 'Evidence-Based' Drug Prevention Programs: A Reanalysis of Data from the Drug Abuse Resistance Education (DARE) Program,\" Evaluation Review, Vol. 33, No.4, 394–414 (2009). Studies by Dennis Gorman and Carol Weiss argue that the D.A.R.E. program has been held to a higher standard than other youth drug prevention programs. Gorman writes, \"what differentiates D.A.R.E. from many of the programs on evidence-based lists might not be the actual intervention but rather the manner in which data analysis is conducted, reported, and interpreted.\" Dennis M. Gorman and J. Charles Huber, Jr.\n\nAs the D.A.R.E. program has been subjected to increasing scrutiny over the years, its overall effectiveness has become something of a controversy and is still much debated.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Education prohibits any of its funding to be used to support drug prevention programs that have not been able to demonstrate their effectiveness. Accordingly, D.A.R.E. America, in 2004, instituted a major revision of its curriculum which is currently being evaluated for possible effectiveness in reducing drug use.\n\nThe U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) identified alternative start-up regional programs, none of which have longevity nor have they been subjected to intense scrutiny.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Substance Abuse and mental health Services, National Registry of Evidence-based Programs and Practices reviewed D.A.R.E.'s Keepin' it REAL curricula. It meets NREPP's requirements as an evidence-based intervention in the categories of tobacco, alcohol, and drug use.\n\n2005 The California Department of Education and California Department of Health's Healthy Kids Resource Center lists D.A.R.E.'s keepin' it REAL curriculum as being research validated.\n\nThe D.A.R.E. program is consistent with the \"zero-tolerance orthodoxy of current U.S. drug control policy.\" According to researcher Dr. D. M. Gorman of the Rutgers University Center of Alcohol Studies, it supports the ideology and the \"prevailing wisdom that exists among policy makers and politicians.\" When the LA Unified School District announced they were ceasing the use of zero tolerance policies over concerns at disproportionate use against racial minorities, California DARE Coordinator Steve Abercrombie expressed displeasure, saying \"I'm surprised they don't hand [cannabis] out when they hand out their workbooks.\"\n\nIt also claims to meet the needs of stake holders such as school districts, parents, and law enforcement agencies.\n\"D.A.R.E. America also has been very successful in marketing its program to the news media through a carefully orchestrated public relations campaign that highlights its popularity while downplaying criticism.\"\n\nPsychologists at the University of Kentucky concluded that \"continued enthusiasm [for D.A.R.E.] shows Americans' stubborn resistance to apply science to drug policy.\"\n\nMarsha Rosenbaum, who headed the West Coast office of the Lindesmith Center, a drug policy reform organization, provided an opinion for a 1999 Village Voice article, \"In D.A.R.E.'s worldview, Marlboro Light cigarettes, Bacardi rum, and a drag from a joint are all equally dangerous. For that matter, so is snorting a few lines of cocaine.\" D.A.R.E. \"isn't really education. It's indoctrination.\" The article also stated, \"Part of what makes D.A.R.E. so popular is that participants get lots of freebies. There are fluorescent yellow pens with the D.A.R.E. logo, tiny D.A.R.E. dolls, bumper stickers, graduation certificates, D.A.R.E. banners for school auditoriums, D.A.R.E. rulers, pennants, D.A.R.E. coloring books, and T-shirts for all D.A.R.E. graduates.\"\n\nD.A.R.E. has failed to fact check some articles on their website, promoting one news piece that was satire, titled \"Edible Marijuana Candies Kill 9 in Colorado, 12 at Coachella.\"\n\n\"Children are asked to submit to D.A.R.E. police officers sensitive written questionnaires that can easily refer to the kids' homes\" and that \"a D.A.R.E. lesson called 'The Three R's: Recognize, Resist, Report' … encourages children to tell friends, teachers or police if they find drugs at home.\"\n\nIn addition, \"D.A.R.E. officers are encouraged to put a 'D.A.R.E. Box' in every classroom, into which students may drop 'drug information' or questions under the pretense of anonymity. Officers are instructed that if a student 'makes a disclosure related to drug use,' the officer should report the information to further authorities, both school, and police. This apparently applies whether the 'drug use' was legal or illegal, harmless or harmful. In a number of communities around the country, students have been enlisted by the D.A.R.E. officer as informants against their parents.\"\n\n\"In the official D.A.R.E. Implementation Guide, police officers are advised to be alert for signs of children who have relatives who use drugs. D.A.R.E. officers are first and foremost police officers and thus are duty-bound to follow up leads that might come to their attention through inadvertent or indiscreet comments by young children.\"\n\nAs a result, children sometimes confide the names of people they suspect are illegally using drugs. In October 2010, an elementary school student in North Carolina brought cannabis to school to turn his parents in.\n\nD.A.R.E. America has generally dismissed many criticisms and independent studies of its program, labeling them false, misleading, or biased. \"D.A.R.E. has long dismissed criticism of its approach as flawed or the work of groups that favor decriminalization of drug use,\" according to the \"New York Times\" in 2001. In a press release titled \"Pro-drug Groups Behind Attack on Prevention Programs; D.A.R.E. Seen as Target as Mayors' Conference Called to Combat Legalization Threat,\" D.A.R.E. asserted that pro-drug legalization individuals and groups were behind criticisms of the program, which were portrayed as based on \"vested interests\" and \"to support various individual personal agendas at the expense of our children.\"\n\nD.A.R.E. has attacked critics for allegedly being motivated by their financial self-interest in programs that compete with D.A.R.E. It has charged that \"they are setting out to find ways to attack our programs and are misusing science to do it. The bottom line is that they don't want police officers to do the work because they want it for themselves.\" Critics have also been dismissed as being jealous of D.A.R.E.'s success.\n\nRonald J. Brogan, New York City's D.A.R.E. fundraiser, and spokesperson said in 1999 that \"If you take German for 17 weeks, you're not going to speak German. The critics say the effect dissipates over the years. No shit, Sherlock.\" The article in which he was quoted observed that \"DARE officials say the solution to this problem is not less DARE but more of it, and they urge cities to teach DARE in middle and high school.\"\n\nOne leader explained that \"I don't have any statistics for you. Our strongest numbers are the numbers that don't show up.\" The 1998 University of Maryland report presented to the U.S. National Institute of Justice stated, \"Officials of D.A.R.E. America are often quoted as saying that the strong public support for the program is a better indicator of its utility than scientific studies.\"\n\nIn 2009, D.A.R.E. adopted the keepin' it REAL curriculum. Rather than solely focusing on the perils of alcohol and drugs, keepin' it REAL utilizes socio-emotional learning theory and a life skills approach to conceptualize substance use resistance as a situated, contextualized process and emphasizes communication competence as central to effective resistance strategies. keepin' it REAL uses a culturally grounded approach that acknowledges the importance of cultural differences and similarities in the effectiveness of communication strategies and norms surrounding substance use. The program was developed by Penn State researchers, who evaluated its effectiveness, though critics contend the program does not implement a long-term evaluation system. In 2013, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration ranked its \"readiness for dissemination\" at 1.5 out of 4. Two field randomized controlled trials showed the effectiveness of the multicultural keepin' it REAL for reducing substance use across grade levels and ethnic/racial groups, which highlights the importance of grounding substance use prevention programs in their audiences' cultural attitudes, values, norms, and beliefs. The second study \"evaluated onset of drug use across and within ethnic groups and the ideal times to intervene\" finding \"a double dose of intervention in elementary and middle school was no more effective than middle school intervention alone.\"\n\n—Following the passing of Washington Initiative 502 that legalized cannabis consumption in Washington state, the D.A.R.E program was changed in the state to remove cannabis messages from their year 5 curriculum, arguing \"research has found that teaching children about drugs with which they have never heard of or have no real life understanding may stimulate their interest or curiosity about the substance.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3670244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3670244", "title": "Edict of Potsdam", "text": "Edict of Potsdam\n\nThe Edict of Potsdam () was a proclamation issued by Frederick William, Elector of Brandenburg and Duke of Prussia, in Potsdam on October 29, 1685, as a response to the revocation of the Edict of Nantes by the Edict of Fontainebleau. It encouraged Protestants to relocate to Brandenburg.\n\nOn 22 October 1685, King Louis XIV of France issued the Edict of Fontainebleau, which was part of a program of persecution that closed Huguenot churches and schools. This policy escalated the harassment of religious minorities since the \"dragonnades\" created in 1681 in order to intimidate Huguenots into converting to Catholicism. As a result, a large number of Protestants — estimates range from 210,000 to 900,000 — left France over the next two decades.\n\nAcross the Rhine it has been estimated that the Holy Roman empire had lost a third of its population through slaughter, famine and plague during the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648). The western part of Brandenburg-Prussia fell within the empire: badly depopulated, the territory faced a desperate labour shortage during the second half of the seventeenth century.\n\nEncouraged by the French theologian-philosopher Jakob Abbadie, on 29 October 1685, Frederick William, Elector of Brandenburg issued the Edict of Potsdam.\n\nLarge number of religious refugees had arrived by ship at Cadzand and other coastal ports in the Netherlands. The edict, which reflected a hands-on practical approach by the Prussian leadership, provided for Prussian diplomats in Amsterdam to arrange ships to transport these by sea to the Free City of Hamburg where Prussian representatives would be on hand to arrange transport up the Elbe to their chosen destinations in the Brandenburg-Prussia heartland. For people fleeing from eastern and southern France provision was made for a land route via Sedan and the Duchy of Cleves, which had become a territory of Brandenburg-Prussia in 1666, and where the Great Elector (as the Prussian ruler is identified in English language history books) had arranged for them to be settled locally or transported on via the Rhine to new homes further east. In its third section the edict spelled out a succession of suggested places where the migrants might wish to live, and went on to promise \"free choice [as to] their place of settlement... wherever they find it most convenient to practice their professions and trades\".\n\nThe edict expressly ruled out any customs duties or other taxes on assets that the migrants had been able to bring with them. Migrants would be accommodated in abandoned and dilapidated properties which their owners had lacked the means to make habitable. They would receive their properties free of mortgages or other debts or obligations, and they would be provided at no cost to themselves with the necessary timber and other building materials. Any former proprietors would be compensated for the transfer value of properties allocated to the migrants, and the new settlers would enjoy a six-year tax holiday in respect of any property taxes (though they would remain subject to the same taxes on consumption as other citizens).\n\nIn some of the many places where tracts of abandoned cultivable land had been identified, the elector's edict provided for the perpetual freehold of these to be allocated to his \"French Protestant Comrades in Belief\" (\"Evangelisch-Reformirten Glaubens-Genossen\"), free of mortgages or other encumbrances. Materials would be provided for refugee farmers to bring their land into cultivation and construct homes. A ten-year tax holiday was included in the package. The edict also recorded that in affected localities officials had been mandated to hire town houses where Huguenot refugees might be received and accommodated with their families rent free for up to four years while arrangements for them to create their own farms were put in place, although this generous provision was expressly conditional on beneficiaries subsequently bringing their farms into production.\n\nIt was spelled out that as soon as a French Protestant migrant family had settled in a town or village they should enjoy full legal and civic equality with the elector's existing subjects. Significantly, they would not be subjected to any discriminatory so-called \"Droit d’Aubaine\" or other burden with which foreign immigrants in other kingdoms, states and republics would be encumbered. Migrants were to be permitted to hold church services in their native French language and to set up their own schools.\n\nThe elector moved fast. On 9 November 1685 translations of the Edict were printed in German, French and Dutch. These were quickly distributed to the affected areas in France using secret couriers and local Protestant networks.\n\nIt is estimated that approximately 20,000 Huguenot refugees relocated to Brandenburg-Prussia in response to the Edict of Potsdam. The contrast between the generosity of the Prussian ruler's Edict of Potsdam and the vindictiveness of the self-styled \"Sun king's\" Edict of Fontainebleau was conscious and widely remarked. The embryonic state became a center of European immigration, its religious freedom attracting not only French Protestants but also the persecuted of Russia, the Netherlands, and Bohemia. Thus, the immigrants to the Electorate of Brandenburg stabilized and greatly improved the country's economy following the destructive wars that had swept through Europe in the seventeenth-century.\n\nThe Edict of Potsdam was not a product of mere altruism or publicity-seeking on the part of an ambitious German prince. A large immigrant community personally linked to the ruler by their religious beliefs also strengthened the ruler's own position in relation to the landed nobility and the powerful Lutheran interests. In a north German state with only limited access to natural resources, there was also a compelling economic case to be made for returning to productive usage land which had been abandoned since the Thirty Years' War.\n\nA particularly well documented case is that of the farmer Jean Harlan, based in Calais and barely 20 years old when the Edict of Fontainbleau was proclaimed in 1685. With others, he escaped in a boat along the English Channel, surviving as far as Cadzand on the Dutch coast. In one of the several \"transit\" points set up by Prussian officials in the Netherlands, he was provided with financial support and documentation, before moving on to Uckermark, close to the Oder River. Here he met and in February 1689 married Marie Le Jeune, another Huguenot refugee who had managed to escape from France with her three children. In Uckermark they were allocated an empty farmstead, together with building material, seed corn, two horses, a cow, and 50 Thalers. Uckermark was a particular focus of Huguenot resettlement. The farmstead was one of 2,900 available for settlement in the area, where the package including \"two horses, a cow, and 50 Thalers\" was apparently the standard one. The Harlans were able to benefit from the grants and tax privileges provided by the Edict of Potsdam, and Jean Harlan later went on to build a business as a tobacco merchant. His son, Jakob Harlan, subsequently founded a commercial dynasty of upwardly mobile business people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9970819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9970819", "title": "European Intellectual Property Review", "text": "European Intellectual Property Review\n\nThe European Intellectual Property Review (EIPR) is a monthly law review published since 1978 by Sweet & Maxwell (now part of Thomson Reuters), that covers international intellectual property law. Its general editor since its 1978 inception has been Hugh Brett.\n\nThe earliest issues of EIPR, for October to December 1978 lack numbering; volume 1 begins with January 1979. Its initial publisher was ESC Publishing Ltd., subsequently acquired by Sweet & Maxwell Ltd., which Thomson Reuters later acquired.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29387068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29387068", "title": "Fahad Al Enezi", "text": "Fahad Al Enezi\n\nFahad Alenazi (, born 1 September 1988) is a Kuwaiti Professional footballer who plays as a winger for the Kuwaiti Premier League club Kuwait SC.\n\nOn October 25 of 2010, Fahad obtained permission from the Kazma board for a week-long vacation to travel to Saudi Arabia. However, Fahad did not travel to Saudi Arabia; he traveled to Serbia to get a trial with FK Partizan for a week so that they may sign him in the January transfer window. He played one game for Partizan B team in the Serbian Reserves First League, and Fahad returned to Kuwait.\n\nIn the 2011 season Fahad joined Ittihad FC on loan from Kazma.His spell at Ittihad FC was short and without success due to injuries and financial problems with the club.\n\nAl Enezi is a pacy customer who tends to cause problems for defending opposition on the left wing with his combination of skill, determination and sheer speed. He is renowned for his trait of running box-to-box and the ability to slot-in dangerous shots and crosses from outside the thirty-yard box. In light of his developing career, Al Enezi has come to be recognised, questionably, as the 'fastest player in Kuwait football'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35885391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35885391", "title": "Gazette officielle du Québec", "text": "Gazette officielle du Québec\n\nThe Gazette officielle du Québec is an official publication of the Quebec government. It is used to promulgate new laws and regulations, which thereby become official. It was founded on January 16, 1869.\n\nAn earlier \"Gazette de Québec\" was an unofficial publication created in 1764, and was replaced by \"Gazette officielle du Québec\" in 1823. Archived versions of the \"Gazette\" from 1869 to 1995 are available. An annual subscription to the Gazette costs $1185 ($500 and $685, for part 1 and 2, respectively) per year, for both parts. One copy costs $10.71.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5942024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5942024", "title": "George Johnston (British Marines officer)", "text": "George Johnston (British Marines officer)\n\nLieutenant-Colonel George Johnston (19 March 1764 – 5 January 1823) was briefly Lieutenant-Governor of New South Wales, Australia after leading the rebellion later known as the Rum Rebellion. After serving as a young marine officer in the American Revolutionary War, Johnston served in the East Indies, fighting against the French, before volunteering to accompany the First Fleet to New South Wales. After serving as adjutant to Governor Arthur Phillip, Johnston served in the New South Wales Corps and he was later a key figure in putting down the Castle Hill convict rebellion in 1804 and then the Rum Rebellion in 1808, the latter of which led to his court martial and subsequent cashiering from military service. In his later life, he returned to New South Wales as a private citizen, raising a family in the colony and establishing a successful farm around Annandale in Sydney.\n\nJohnston was born on 19 January 1764 at Annan, Dumfriesshire, Scotland, the son of Captain George Johnston, aide-de-camp to Lord Percy, later the 5th Duke of Northumberland. Percy obtained a commission for the 12-year-old Johnston as second lieutenant of marines on 6 March 1776. Johnston went to America with his regiment, and took part in the Battle of Bunker Hill during the American Revolutionary War, where he distinguished himself by seizing the colours and carrying them into action after the standard-bearer had been mortally wounded. During the fight, his father received a chest wound, from which he subsequently died. The Duke of Northumberland, who had held Johnston's father in high regard, became Johnston's guardian.\n\nThe young officer subsequently acted as a recruiting officer in the United Kingdom before served aboard in the East Indies in 1781, and suffering a severe wound in action against the French. Returned to garrison duty in Portsmouth, he volunteered to join the New South Wales Marine Corps, which would accompany the First Fleet to New South Wales. He sailed for Australia aboard the convict transport \"Lady Penrhyn\" in 1788.\n\nOn arrival in New South Wales, Johnston served as adjutant to Governor Arthur Phillip, and was promoted in 1789 to the rank of Captain-Lieutenant of Marines. He transferred from the New South Wales Marine Corps to the locally raised New South Wales Corps in 1791 with the rank of captain.\n\nJohnston received extensive land grants in areas of modern Petersham, Bankstown and Cabramatta. Johnston's other grants included land which is now the suburb of Annandale, named for his property that was in turn named after the place of his birth. He and Esther Abrahams farmed and lived on Annandale with their children.\n\nIn September 1796, Johnston was appointed aide-de-camp to Governor John Hunter, and in 1800 received his brevet rank as major. In the same year Johnston was put under arrest by Lieutenant Governor William Paterson on charges of \"paying spirits to a sergeant as part of his pay—and disobedience of orders\". Johnston objected to trial by court-martial in the colony, and Hunter sent him to England. There the difficulties of conducting a trial with witnesses in Australia led to the proceedings being dropped, and Johnston returned to New South Wales in 1802. In 1803 Johnston took temporary command of the New South Wales Corps during the illness of Paterson, and became involved in the conflict between King and the military. In March 1804 he acted with decision when in command of the military sent against some convicts who had rebelled at Castle Hill. When Paterson was sent to Port Dalrymple, Johnston became commander of the New South Wales Corps.\n\nOn 26 January 1808, Johnston played a key role in the only successful armed takeover of a government in Australia's recorded history, the Rum Rebellion, working closely with John Macarthur. Johnston led the troops that deposed Governor William Bligh, assumed the title of lieutenant-governor, and illegally suspended the judge-advocate and other officials. The administration of justice became farcical, and there were signs of strong discontent among the settlers.\n\nJohnston was promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel on 25 April 1808, and was superseded by his senior officer Joseph Foveaux, who was Lieutenant-Governor of Norfolk Island, on 28 July. Johnston sailed for England with John Macarthur in March 1809 (and Henry Fulton as a witness) and was tried by court-martial in May 1811. Found guilty of mutiny he was sentenced to be cashiered. This lenience of the sentence imposed in the circumstances presumably indicates that the court was convinced that he had been the tool of other people.\n\nJohnston returned to New South Wales in May 1813 as a private individual and in November the following year he married Esther Abrahams at St John's Church in Parramatta. The couple had already had seven children together by that time and they lived on his land at Annandale Farm, Sydney. He died much respected on 5 January 1823, leaving a large family. He was first interred in a private mausoleum on his Annandale property, until its subdivision to become an inner city suburb. His remains were moved to a new mausoleum at Waverley Cemetery in 1904.\n\nThe suburb of Georges Hall is named after the farmhouse of the same name on land grants Johnston received near the junction of the Georges River and Prospect Creek. This building still exists and is now one of Australia's oldest houses. Johnston and Esther Abrahams farmed and lived on Annandale with their children until the 1870s when it was sold and sub-divided for residential development. The main street of Annandale is named Johnston and the gates of their property now stand in the grounds of Annandale Public School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14455968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14455968", "title": "George Sweeney Trial", "text": "George Sweeney Trial\n\nThe George Sweeney Trial in 1806 in Richmond, Virginia was a trial in which George Sweeney, the grand-nephew of George Wythe, one of the founding fathers of the United States, was acquitted of murdering Wythe. Wythe was a distinguished attorney who attended the Philadelphia Convention in 1775 and signed the Declaration of Independence in 1776; in 1806, he died of arsenic poisoning. Before he died, Wythe accused his nephew of murder and changed his will to exclude him. Wythe's black housekeeper provided evidence that George Sweeney had tried to poison Wythe, her son and her, but by law was prohibited from testifying in a criminal case against a white man. Sweeney was tried and found not guilty. The case is used as an example of how racism in early American law resulted in an acquittal.\n\nAlthough George Wythe was 80 years old, he was healthy and vigorous. Since his only child had died as an infant decades before, Wythe in 1803 or earlier wrote a will leaving a large amount to George Sweeney, his sister's grandson named after him. When Sweeney, a 17-year-old drinker and gambler, came to live with Wythe in 1805, he began stealing Wythe's books for sale and forging Wythe's name on personal bank account checks to help pay his debts. Wythe had also made settlements for former slaves Lydia Broadnax, whom he had freed in 1787, and her 16-year-old son Michael Brown, as well as Benjamin, an adult man whom he freed in 1797. Sweeney would share his inheritance with them.\n\nSince Sweeney feared that Wythe would discover the forgeries, and knew that he was a beneficiary of Wythe's estate, evidence suggests that he decided to murder his uncle and/or the other heirs. A shopkeeper later attested that he sold Sweeney arsenic, and Broadnax said she saw him put something in the coffeepot in the kitchen from which Wythe, Broadnax and Brown drank that Sunday morning, May 25. Brown and Wythe died slow and agonizing deaths over several days: Brown on June 1 and Wythe a week later on June 8, 1806. Broadnax survived.\n\nAs Wythe lay on his death bed, Sweeney's forgeries were discovered. On June 1, the judge changed his will to disinherit his grandnephew.\n\nOn June 18, Sweeney was arrested and charged with murder. The trial began on September 2. the Convincing testimony pointing to Sweeney as the culprit was provided by Broadnax, who had been Wythe's cook for many years. She had witnessed Sweeney's suspicious behaviors around the coffee pot, which suggested that he had placed a substance in the coffee on May 25, while she was in the kitchen with him. Broadnax had drunk a small amount of the coffee and become ill. When Wythe and Brown also became ill from drinking the coffee, she testified that she suspected that Sweeney had put something in it.\n\nThe two judges did not allow Broadnax's testimony into evidence nor that of the other black servants who had seen Sweeney's suspicious behaviors. They adhered to the law at that time, which did not allow blacks to testify against a white person in a criminal trial: \"It was gleaned from negroes, which is not permitted by our laws to go against a white man.\"\n\nHearsay evidence was introduced by the whites who testified that Sweeney had bought arsenic. The jail warden testified that Sweeney had not been searched upon arrest, and that later a packet with arsenic was found in the jail yard, where it could have been thrown from a jail window. Another person testified that Wythe on his death bed, asked him to search Sweeney's room, where he found a container of arsenic. Wythe changed his will on June 1, to disinherit Sweeney. Because hearsay evidence was excluded by law, the jury's verdict on September 8 was not guilty.\n\n"}
{"id": "7139625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7139625", "title": "Highways Act 1555", "text": "Highways Act 1555\n\nThe Highways Act 1555 (2 & 3 Ph. & Mary, c. 8), sometimes the First Statute of Highways, was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of England passed in 1555 (and extended by the Highways Act 1562). It placed the burden of upkeep of the highways on individual [[parishes] mp3 also 5\n\nThe Act enacted that each year, in the [[Easter]] week, every parish was to elect \"two honest persons\" of the parish to serve as the [[Surveyor of Highways]], who would be responsible for the upkeep of those highways within the parish boundaries which ran to [[market town]]s.\n\nThe Surveyors would announce, on the first Sunday after Easter, four days before 24 June on which the maintenance work was to be carried out, and for these four days the whole parish was to work on the highways.\n\nEvery person, for every ploughland they held in the parish, and every other person keeping a draught or plough there, was to provide a cart or wain equipped for the work, and two able-bodied men, on a penalty of 10\"s\" per draught; the Surveyors could, at their discretion, require a further two men instead of the cart. Every other householder, as well as every other cottager and labourer free to labour, was to send themselves or a substitute able-bodied labourer to work for the four days, on a penalty of 12\"d\" per day apiece. All labourers were to provide their own equipment, and bound to work for eight hours each day upon the roads.\n\nThe Act was originally in force for seven years, but its provisions were extended to run for another twenty years by the [[Highways Act 1562]].\n\nIt was repealed by section 57 of the Act 7 Geo.3 c.42.\n\n\n[[Category:1555 in law]]\n[[Category:1555 in England]]\n[[Category:Acts of the Parliament of England (1485–1603)]]\n[[Category:Roads in England]]\n[[Category:Transport policy in the United Kingdom]]\n[[Category:Transport legislation]]\n[[Category:History of transport in England]]"}
{"id": "7140107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7140107", "title": "Highways Act 1562", "text": "Highways Act 1562\n\nThe Highways Act 1562 (5 Eliz.1 c.13), sometimes the Second Statute of Highways, was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of England passed in 1563. The Act extended the provisions of the Highways Act 1555, by which every householder of a parish had to provide four days labour in a year on the highways, for a further twenty years, and made the requirement six days labour rather than four. Supervisors of highway work were empowered to take debris from quarries and dig for gravel without permission of the landowners. The Act also empowered Justices of the Peace at Quarter Sessions to investigate and punish supervisors in cases where they were in dereliction of their duties, imposing \"such fines ... as shall be thought meet\".\n\nIt was repealed by section 57 of the Act 7 Geo.3 c.42.\n\n"}
{"id": "17206941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17206941", "title": "Institutes of the Lawes of England", "text": "Institutes of the Lawes of England\n\nThe Institutes of the Lawes of England are a series of legal treatises written by Sir Edward Coke. They were first published, in stages, between 1628 and 1644. Widely recognized as a foundational document of the common law, they have been cited in over 70 cases decided by the Supreme Court of the United States, including several landmark cases. For example, in \"Roe v. Wade\" (1973), Coke's \"Institutes\" are cited as evidence that under old English common law, an abortion performed before quickening was not an indictable offence. In the much earlier case of \"United States v. E. C. Knight Co.\" (1895), Coke's \"Institutes\" are quoted at some length for their definition of monopolies. The \"Institutes's\" various reprinted editions well into the 19th century is a clear indication of the long lasting value placed on this work throughout especially the 18th century in Britain and Europe. It has also been associated through the years with high literary connections. For example, David Hume in 1764 requested it from the bookseller Andrew Millar in a cheap format for a French friend.\n\nThe \"Institutes of the Lawes of England\" are divided into four parts, the first editions of which are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49072343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49072343", "title": "Jeju 4.3 Committee", "text": "Jeju 4.3 Committee\n\nThe National Committee for Investigation of the Truth about the Jeju 4.3 Events (4.3 Committee) was a truth commission in South Korea established in 2000. The commission aimed to investigate the Jeju 4.3 events, which refers to a \"series of armed uprisings and counterinsurgency that occurred between 1948 and 1954 on Jeju island, the largest island in the southernmost part of South Korea.\" Announcing 14,028 victims, the first report of the commission was published in 2003, following an official apology by President Roh Moo-hyun, and his participation in a memorial service held in commemoration of the events, in 2006. However the commission continued to be in operation through 2009, carrying out various reparation projects as well as the screening of victims, thus making it the lengthiest truth commission in history.\n\nWithin the context of the early Cold War era, the events under investigation occurred on April 3, 1948, when the leadership of the South Korean Communist Party Jeju Committee led an armed uprising against the South Korean Interim Government (SKIG). As such, over 350 Leftist Guerrillas attacked various police stations on Jeju Island, in addition to killing many prominent right-wing political figures. In an effort to stabilize the situation, the South Korean government sent over 100 reinforcement forces. However, upon realization that the number of police officers sent was insufficient to control the guerrillas, \"The government then mobilized the members of anti-communist paramilitary groups who were deeply involved in Korean politics, using violence in favour of the right-wing leaders and the US military government.\" Failing to control the guerrilla armed resistance, enforcement responsibilities were transferred to the South Korean military. Resulting from this, civilians not involved in the conflict were abused and murdered by perpetrators including: armed guerrillas, police, military and Paramilitary groups.\n\nSince the South Korean transition to a democratic government in 1987, studies debating the causes and consequences of the Jeju 4.3 events have emerged which challenge the official narratives of the event. Specifically, three major debates challenging the official narratives include the characteristics of the armed uprising, the start-date of the incident, and circumstances surrounding responsibility of civilian massacres.\nBefore South Korean democratization in 1987, the characteristics of the armed uprising on April 3, 1948 were mostly referred to and understood as communist rebellions in all public records, including mass media, textbooks, and government documents. As proposed by Kim, \"by defining the key event as a communist rebellion, civilian massacres and human rights abuses were easily justified as collateral to, and a necessary part of, the efforts to prevent communization.\" Alternative perspectives to explain the armed uprising in Jeju include 'Democratic movement', or 'Popular uprising'. This proposed perspective dismantled the Communism rebellion argument led by the SKIG, by explaining that, \"The armed uprising was both widely supported by the general public and an inevitable response to the oppression and misrule of the US military government and the incompetence of the Korean government.\"\n\nFurther, the start date of the Jeju 4.3 Incident has been debated. Prior to 1987, the view was that the Incident started on April 3, 1948, when the guerrilla communists led an armed uprising. However, upon democratization in 1987, a revisionist view emerged, arguing that events began on 1 March 1947, when dissatisfaction with the US military government resulted in a demonstration and the local police, under the control of the US military, opened fire, severely injuring no less than ten individuals. Consequently, the Revisionist perspective would argue, \"the armed uprising on 3 April 1948 was one of several instances of public resistance to the US military government, which originally commenced on 1 March 1947.\"\nThe third debate over the events of the Jeju 4.3 Incident challenged the official narrative of the responsibility for civilian massacres. The traditional narrative is that the communist guerrillas were mainly responsible for the massacres and human rights violations. Contrasting this argument and relating to the challenges made in the second debate, \"since the armed protest was actually a response to oppression and misrule, it is the US military government and nascent Korean government that are in fact responsible for the massacres and abuses.\"\n\nFollowing the Jeju 4.3 events, the truth of their occurrence remained suppressed for over 25 years under dictatorial regimes. The first breakthrough was in 1978, when a South Korean writer named Hyun Ki-Young, published his novel titled \"Aunt Suni\". The novel described a fictional character who returns to Jeju island for his grandfather’s memorial service. Upon his arrival the main character learns of the atrocities perpetrated by the South Korean military and the police during the 4.3 events. Hyun Ki-Young’s novel significantly impacted social activists giving rise to underground student movements. As described by Kim, “the time between 1978 and 1987 became a period of preparation.” During this time scholars and underground activists secretly attempted to rediscover the truth through repressed accounts and memories of the 4.3 events and massacres, holding memorial services and frequent discussion of the events.\n\nUpon democratization in South Korea, public and mass movements devised to uncover the truth about the Jeju 4.3 events emerged at the local level. At this time there were three advocacy activities including: media coverage, memorial services, and research. In terms of media coverage, local newspapers such as the Jemin-Ilbo played a significant role in uncovering evidence of massacres and taking testimonies which would be shared publicly. Further, social movement groups organized the first memorial service in 1989 for the Jeju 4.3 events. The memorial services were followed by a month-long festival that featured traditional plays, testimony hearings, films, concerts, and art as public communication tools concerning the Jeju events. As described by Kim, “it provided an arena where activists could discuss the 4.3 events and share information, expertise and strategies.”. Research also contributed to advocacy efforts through the establishment of the 4.3 Research Institute. The objective of this organization was to find evidence of the massacres and disperse information. Resulting from this was an excavation of the Darangshi cave on Jeju island in 1992. Here the researchers discovered skeletal remains of corpses, proving to be a significant advancement in the transitional justice process.\n\nDuring this time the Kim Young-sam administration decentralized state power by instituting local government and elected council systems. Within this political context, the Provincial 4.3 Committee was created under the Jeju Provincial Council. The Provincial Committee’s action plan was to investigate the truth behind the 4.3 events. In doing so they created the Office for 4.3 Victim Registration. Consequently, 17 investigators were tasked with conducting interviews and gathering evidence. After a year long investigation, in 1995 the Provincial Committee published a final report listing 14, 504 victims of the Jeju events.\n\nBy 1998, activists, victims, and politicians involved in the uncovering of the truth of the 4.3 events directed their energy into two organizations that would then combine the efforts of all the individuals involved. These included The Pan National Committee for the Jeju 4.3 Events, created in Seoul, and the Provincial Solidarity for the Jeju 4.3, created in Jeju. However, after a year of disappointing results, by 1999 activists began to look at advocating for the enactment of a binding special law that would legally guarantee the establishment of a truth commission for the Jeju Incident. Consequently, the local council members of Jeju along with 90 activists and victims were the thrust behind a national campaign, making several appearances before the National Assembly in South Korea, as well as organizing weekly rallies. However, despite these activities, there were no tangible advancements due to the hesitation of leaders. In response, a Congresswoman from the ruling party, Choo Mi-ae, according to Kim, “played a significant role in bringing the 4.3 events into the forefront of national politics and urging the ruling party to fulfill its commitment.” Evidently, Choo released an official document containing a 200-page list of 1,650 persons who were court-martialed during the Jeju 4.3 events. The document showed detailed information of the military trials that took place; showing that detainees were executed within a month after initial trials, and some were executed after one day. Consequently, Kim describes that, “It provided undeniable evidence of the execution without due process of a large number of people in a short period of time, and made it possible for the concerned lawmakers to proceed without much resistance”\n\nFollowing the release of the official document by Choo Mi-ae, three congressmen from the opposition Grand National Party from Jeju island proposed a draft of a bill that included the establishment of an independent committee regarding the Jeju 4.3 events, under the Office of the Prime Minister. The bill marked the first redefinition of the events as something other than a communist rebellion. The bill would define the 4.3 events as a disturbance that occurred from the 3rd of April 1948 in Jeju Island. Further it would refuse any transitional justice measures beyond the investigation. The definition in particular was criticized by activists and victims who demanded a definition that went beyond a disturbance thus acknowledging the 4.3 events as mass human rights violations perpetrated by the state. As such, within a month, activists and victims proposed their own version of the bill defining it as, “Events which occurred in Jeju Island from 1 March 1947 to 27 July 1953 when civilians were abused without good cause during the armed conflicts and governmental suppression by the police, military and paramilitary groups of the US military government and Korea government.”. Consequently, two differing bills were put through the negotiation process; activists and victims pushed for definitions, while the Grand National Party pushed for no reparations. For the activists and victims, the reparations were a secondary issue relative to defining the 4.3 events, because the redefinition would serve their primary focus which was to honour the victims and their families. Thus as Kim puts it, “For activists and victims, the compromise was a strategic and provisional concession in order to enact a special law.” A compromise was reached through a bipartisan bill, that consisted of the redefinition of the 4.3 events in accordance with the activists and victims, and an article on a financial and medical subsidy without reparation for the victims. The only additional transitional measures that could be guaranteed under the law beyond the establishment of the truth commission were commemoration projects (a memorial park, museum, and cemetery). The bill was passed on the 16th of December, 1999, preceding the 4.3 Special Act, and nine months later, the 4.3 Committee.\n\nAccording to the Jeju 4.3 Special Law, \"The highest decision-making body is the Special or National Committee for Investigation of the Jeju 4.3 Incident and Restoring the Honor of the Victims.\" According to Enforcement Regulation No.3 of the Special Law, the committee must be composed of no less than twenty members. These mandatory members included the prime minister, who is also the chairperson of the committee, the ministers of justice, of government registration, of budget and planning, the governor of Jeju, representatives of the victims' families who are designated by the prime minister, and relevant experts and people of learning and experience. Consequently, upon the establishment of the committee on August 8, 2000, the members of the committee included: the prime minister, seven additional government ministers, twelve civilians including representatives of the victim's families, as well as lawyers, heads of civic groups, scholars, and former army generals. Additionally Article No. 7 of the Special Law indicated that, \"the task force for preparing the report can be organized separately in order to maintain objectivity and heighten efficiency.\" As such, this task force according to the Enforcement Ordinance No. 12 of the Special Law must be composed of less than fifteen members. These members must include director-general level officials who are appointed by the prime minister, the vice-governor of Jeju, various representatives of the victims' families and relevant experts. Consequently, upon the establishment of the committee on January 17, 2000 the leader of the task force was lawyer Park Won-sun, with membership by five director-general level officials from various government offices including the vice-governor of Jeju, and ten civilians including representatives of the victims' families, scholars, lawyers and heads of civic groups. Further, within the task force, an investigation team was organized with five expert advisors and fifteen investigators, led by the team Chief Advisor Yang Jo-hun.\n\nThe investigation primarily focused on the \"armed conflict, the suppression of it and the killing of innocent people during the process for seven years and seven months post the shooting incident by the police on March 1, 1947 to the lifting of the standstill order on Mt. Halla on September 21, 1954.\" Further, the committee's policy outlined the task of investigating the background of the incident, including its development and the extent of damage incurred, while investigating the killing of innocent by-standers and human rights abuses more generally.\nThe duration of the investigation was two and a half years, from September 2000 until February 2003. The steps of the investigation included \"making lists of the data and witnesses who are scheduled to give their testimony and selecting institutes and organizations from which the data will be collected, collecting the data and recording the testimonies, analyzing the data and the testimony, and making and examining the report.\"\n\nThe task force, which held the responsibility to develop and publish the report, conducted 12 meetings and reviewed everything from the basic plans of the investigation to the content of the report. Further, the full-time investigation team collected data from organizations and institutes both domestically and abroad and recorded the testimony from witnesses on Jeju Island, in Seoul, Japan and the United States.\n\nThe investigation team's objective was to place emphasis on discovering and revealing the truth with respect to the following issues:\n\nThe investigation committee searched for data from 19 domestic institutes and administrative bodies and nine foreign countries, collecting 10,594 cases. The committee used bibliographic surveys from domestic institutes as well as foreign countries, and recorded testimony to collect data.\n\nIn terms of domestic data, the bibliographic survey used 1,500 published and unpublished source materials pertaining to the Jeju 4.3 Incident. The committee preceded to target organizations and institutions related to the Incident. Once these were chosen, the task force team gave weight to securing the data from government bodies such as the records of the police and military operations, which were directly involved in the suppression of the incident, minutes of Cabinet meetings, and trial rulings. Additionally, the committee attempted to discover and secure data from current magazines and newspapers, the stenographic records of the National Assembly, the laws, regulations and administrative orders of the US army military government in Korea, personnel orders, individual memoirs and the records from the armed guerrillas. According to the Investigation report of the Jeju 4.3 Incident, \"It is believed that the team made a successful attempt to collect and analyze the data. Yet the data from the military, the police, and the armed guerrillas were relatively insufficient. The team encountered difficulty due to the data discarded by the police.\"\n\nIn securing data the investigation team sent its staff to three countries including the United States, Russia, and Japan, conducting surveys in each with the aid of resident experts. Among the three countries mentioned, emphasis was placed on the United States, with an in-depth data search conducted, given that the Incident occurred whilst the United States Military Government was heavily involved. According to the investigation report, the first research was conducted from March 29 to April 27, 2001 and the second was carried out for 6 months from June 23 to December 1 of the same year. To search for the data, the survey team visited the National Archives and Records Administration (hereafter referred to as NARA), the MacArthur Memorial and the U.S. Army Military History Institute. \"The NARA was so cooperative with the survey that it even provided the team with an exclusive work table. The survey team collected about 800 pieces of materials related directly or indirectly to the incident. The quantity of materials was enormous, reaching more than 10,000 pages of copies.\" In the midst of the international investigation, the team referred to truth commission cases in foreign countries for guidance. Consequently, the investigation team successfully obtained research from truth commissions in Argentina, Taiwan, South Africa, and Spain.\n\n503 witness testimonies were recorded over a period of 16 months from July 2001 to October 2002, using voice recorders and camcorders. The recordings were conducted in Jeju, Seoul, as well as in countries including Japan and the United States. Witnesses were chosen from \"the damage and casualty report of the Jeju Provincial Council, newspapers, broadcast programs and collections of testimony.\" Further, the committee received recommended witnesses from various organizations; the committee also launched its own witness selection from ex-armed guerrillas and commanders of the suppression operations. Through this process, a list of 2,780 people was completed, out of which 500 people were screened into a final selection. Priority was given to witnesses with unusual backgrounds, those who underwent unique or specific incidents or came from a village that incurred severe damage, and those who were discovered by the committee's own investigation.\n\nThe events that took place in the Jeju 4.3 Incident in the region of Mount Halla resulted in mass human rights violations. The South Korean government's counter-insurgency strategies led to guerrilla warfare until 1954. According to Kim, \"The counterinsurgency strategy was extremely brutal; it included mass arrest and deterioration, forced relocation, torture, indiscriminate killing and the large-scale massacre of civilians.\" Hundreds of villages were razed when residents were suspected of providing shelter and food to the leftist guerrillas, and many more villages in the Mount Halla region were systematically burned with residents forcibly relocated to the coast. More serious human rights abuses including mass killings and disappearances were evident in the earlier stages of the Incident, specifically between May 1948 and March 1949. According to the 2003 report of the 4.3 Committee, \"15,100 victims have been identified, among which 10,729 (71%) were deceased, 3,920 (26%) missing, 207 (1.4%) injured and 244 (1.6%) imprisoned.\" Further, the report also confirmed 448 victims of systematic civilian massacres, evidence of illegal detention, indiscriminate sweeping arrests, and summary executions. Consequently, \"Many civilians were arrested and sentenced to death or to life imprisonment in makeshift martial courts. Torture was widely used to extract false confessions, which in turn were used to justify Summary execution and illegal detentions.\" Finally, the report identified the suffering consequent to the guilt-by-association-system. This system entailed that, \"Not only the direct family members of the convicted but also more distant relatives were inflicted with punishment or disadvantages.\" The report highlighted cases in which some family members of the 4.3 Incident were subject to unfair treatment regarding employability, promotion, and travel opportunities.\n\nRecommendations by the National Committee for Investigation of the Truth About the Jeju 4.3 Events (4.3 Committee) to the government of South Korea include:\n\nImmediately following the release of the Jeju 4.3 Investigation report in 2003, the President of South Korea, Roh Moo-hyun, provided an apology to the victims of the incident and their families. This was significant in South Korean history because it marked the first apology by a head of state for human rights abuses perpetrated by the state. Further, South Korean history textbooks have changed the characterization of the events, providing a more neutral understanding of human rights violations. Additionally, victims and their families were compensated for the economic hardships suffered, as well as physical and mental illnesses that resulted from the incident. In direct accordance with the recommendations by the Jeju 4.3 committee, the Commission involved itself in three commemoration projects, and by 2007 the Jeju Foundation (a memorial park and museum) was created. The objectives of the Jeju Foundation were to, “promote peace and human rights by, first, maintaining the museum and memorial park, and second, by conducting additional investigations.” Further in 2006, the Commission launched a long-term excavation project to find the remains of the victims and discover mass graves. Consequently, by 2013, eight out of 151 mass murder sites, and the remains of over 400 victims had been discovered.\n\nCriticisms of the commission include:\n\n"}
{"id": "51794219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51794219", "title": "Jewish poll tax", "text": "Jewish poll tax\n\nThe Jewish poll tax () was a poll tax imposed on the Jews in Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. It was later absorbed into the \"hiberna\" tax. \n\nThe Jews were exempt from other state and municipal taxes, which often caused protests from Polish city dwellers.\n\nInitially the collection of the tax was a duty of Jewish Councils (Council of Four Lands, Council of the Land of Lithuania). Sometimes it was paid to the royal treasury, other times in was paid directly to the military units funded from this tax.\n\nThe Jewish councils divide the tax into smaller internal divisions called \"portions\" (Hebrew: \"skhumot\", Polish: \"sympla\"). The sum of the portions was always larger than the state-imposed amount, and the council used the surplus for the needs of Jewish community and the council apparatus. This practice was common for non-Jewish taxes as well, and the Crown was aware of it.\n\nBy early 17th century the duty of Jewish poll tax was transferred to \"sejmiks\", later to Polish military, and by mid-17th century it was absorbed into the \"hiberna\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4892406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4892406", "title": "Jus de non evocando", "text": "Jus de non evocando\n\nThe Jus de non evocando is an ancient feudal right, stating that no one can be kept from the competent court. It derives from a medieval principle that subjects of the Crown were entitled to \"ius de non evocando\", the right to enjoy the jurisdiction and protection of the Crown to which they were loyal. As such it is still present in several constitutions, such as the German constitution, the Italian constitution and the Dutch constitution.\n\nIt has today become an important concept in public international law by which states refuse to extradite their own citizens. Some countries may refuse to extradite non-nationals, who, because of their crimes, may be subject to the death penalty. This may be seen in the case of Canada and Mexico vis-à-vis the United States.\n\nThis principle is frequently argued in cases of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) and former Yugoslavia (ICTY). The foundation lies in that the international tribunal, by seizing jurisdiction over an international criminal trial from national courts, is violating the principle of \"jus de non evocando\". The Trial Chamber in the case of Dusko Tadic (IT-94-1 of the ICTY) stated that states give up some measure of sovereignty to be a part of the UN and the ICTY is a product of the UN, therefore there is no violation.\n"}
{"id": "27286409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27286409", "title": "Lebanese nationality law", "text": "Lebanese nationality law\n\nLebanese nationality law is the law governing the acquisition, transmission and loss of Lebanese citizenship. Lebanese citizenship is the status of being a citizen of the Republic of Lebanon and it can be obtained by birth or naturalisation. The Lebanese nationality is transmitted by paternity (father) (see Jus sanguinis). Therefore, a Lebanese man who holds Lebanese citizenship can automatically confer citizenship to his children and foreign wife (only if entered in the Civil Acts Register in the Republic of Lebanon). Under the current law, descendants of Lebanese emigrants can only receive citizenship from their father and women cannot pass on citizenship to their children or foreign spouses. On 12 November 2015, the Parliament of Lebanon approved a draft law that would allow \"foreigners of Lebanese origin to get citizenship\", the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Emigrants Gebran Bassil announced on 5 May 2016 the beginning of the implementation of citizenship law for Lebanese diaspora. A law passed in 2008 permitted Lebanese abroad to vote in Lebanese elections starting in 2013.\n\nCitizens of the Republic of Lebanon by law have the legal right to:\n\nAll Lebanese citizens are required by law, when forced by the Lebanese government, to bear arms on behalf of the Republic of Lebanon, to perform noncombatant service in the Lebanese Armed Forces, and to perform work of national importance under civilian direction.\n\nThe code covering the Lebanese nationality was issued in 1926.\n\nAccording to the Lebanese Ministry for Migration, there has been no restriction on multiple citizenship in The Republic of Lebanon since 1 January 1926. Thus, foreigners who acquire Lebanese citizenship and Lebanese citizens who voluntarily acquire another citizenship keep their previous citizenship (subject to the laws of the other country), as was the case before that date.\n\nSince many nationality laws now allow both parents to transmit their nationality to their common child (and not only the father, as used to often be the case), many children automatically acquire multiple citizenship at birth. However, the Lebanese Ministry for Migration specially notes that this has not resulted in any practical problems worth mentioning. Military service, the most likely problem to arise, is usually done in the country where the applicant resides at the time of conscription. For instance, a dual Lebanese-Armenian national must do his military service in Armenia, since Republic of Armenia has compulsory military service for two years for males from 18 to 27 years old. All male dual citizens regardless where they live are required to serve in the military as if they were Armenian resident citizen with certain exceptions. Most male Armenian citizens living outside of Armenia do not return to serve in the military.\n\nLebanon previously had mandatory military service for men only. All men were required to do 1 year of military service through age 18+. Training was only done whenever they had free time or time off school including summer vacations and holidays. There were also training done alongside high school. On May 4, 2005, a new conscription system was adopted, making for a six-month service, and pledging to end conscription within two years. As of February 10, 2007 mandatory military service no longer exists in Lebanon thus making it a conscription-free all-volunteer force.\n\nA child is Lebanese at birth if:\n\nA foreign wife married to a male Lebanese citizen may apply for Lebanese citizenship by facilitated naturalization after having been married for at least one year and their marriage has been entered in the Civil Acts Register in the Republic of Lebanon since then. No language test is required, but the spouse must show the following:\n\n\nIt is also possible for the foreign wife of a Lebanese citizen to apply for facilitated naturalization while resident overseas after the following:\n\n\nBirth in the Republic of Lebanon does not in itself confer Lebanese citizenship. Therefore, Jus soli does not apply.\n\nA child whose Lebanese citizenship depends on paternal links loses citizenship when those are cut.\n\nA Lebanese child adopted by foreign parents is considered to have lost Lebanese citizenship.\n\nWhere a former Lebanese citizen lost citizenship due to adoption by foreign parents and that adoption is later annulled, the Lebanese citizenship is considered to never have been lost.\n\nA Lebanese citizen born abroad to a Lebanese father and holding at least one other nationality loses the Lebanese citizenship at age 25 if:\n\nEven though Lebanese nationality law permits multiple citizenship, a Lebanese national who also holds another country's citizenship may be required to renounce the foreign citizenship, under the foreign country's nationality law. A dual Lebanese-Japanese national must, for instance, make a declaration of choice, to the Japanese Ministry of Justice, before turning 22, as to whether he or she wants to keep the Lebanese or Japanese citizenship.\n\nThere is a public demand for giving the opportunity for Lebanese women to transmit their Lebanese nationality to their children and also to their husbands. \nMoreover, the Lebanese citizenship to be given to the 8-14 million diaspora of Lebanese living all over the world.\n\nOn 7 November 2015, Gebran Bassil, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Emigrants, \"refused to compromise on a draft law that would grant citizenship to the descendants of Lebanese expatriates by expanding it to include the foreign spouses and children of Lebanese women\".\n\nOn 11 November 2015, the Lebanese Parliament and Free Patriotic Movement member Ibrahim Kanaan stated that the ministers have agreed to pass a \"10-article draft law titled “The Reacquisition of Lebanese Citizenship to the Descendants of Lebanese Emigrants,” to grant those of Lebanese origin the nationality on the basis of certain procedures and legal pathways.\n\nOn 12 November 2015, the Lebanese Parliament approved a raft of draft laws Thursday, including a law allowing foreigners of Lebanese origin to get citizenship.\n\nOn 5 May 2016, the Gebran Bassil, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Emigrants announced the beginning of the implementation of citizenship law for Lebanese diaspora. However, the law would allow only grandchildren of Lebanese paternal grandfathers but not grandchildren of Lebanese maternal grandmothers to apply for citizenship.\n\nArticle I \nEvery natural person who meets one of the two eligibility requirements has the right to reclaim his/her Lebanese nationality. \n\nArticle II \nThis law intends to verify the “actual presence of Lebanese relatives in the town, village or neighborhood,” which an individual would claim, including the degree of kinship, along with any ownership/holding of rights to real property that may have been “devised, bequeathed, or inherited from a Lebanese citizen.”\n\nAlthough bureaucratic in nature, this aspect of the law was meant to encourage associations with the land, a defining feature of Lebanese nationality. Where one traced his/her roots were deemed vital that, again, added a specific feature to the law.\nThe law would allow grandchildren of Lebanese paternal grandfathers to apply for citizenship. The latest law would help Lebanese expatriates take part in future Lebanese parliamentary elections by voting at Lebanese embassies abroad. The number of Lebanese living outside the country is thought to at least double the number of citizens living inside, which means at least 8 million people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28245433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28245433", "title": "Legal cashier", "text": "Legal cashier\n\nA Legal Cashier is a specialized type of bookkeeper for law firms responsible for the accounting and finance functions of a solicitor's practice such as recording day-to-day financial transactions and ensuring compliance with the Solicitors' Accounts Rules. The term \"Legal Cashier\" is in common use within the legal profession in England and Wales,\n\nDepending on the category of legal work being carried out, solicitors regularly handle client monies, and due to the risk of fraud or money laundering, they must adhere to a strict Solicitors' Code of Conduct and comply with the Solicitors' Accounts Rules.\n\nAlthough there is no legal requirement for a Legal Cashier to have received formal training in England and Wales, the Solicitors Accounts Rules 1998 state that \"the person who maintains the books of account must have a full knowledge of the rules and the accounting requirements of solicitors' firms\".\n\nThe Institute of Legal Finance & Management (ILFM) (formed in 1978 as The Institute of Legal Cashiers) provide a formal qualification, The ILFM Diploma, to \"provide a sound comprehensive and practical knowledge of the maintenance of solicitor's internal financial records, to meet compliance requirements\". Candidates who pass receive a Certificate but must complete two years experience in the accounts department of a law firm before they can get associate membership or use the designatory letters.\n\nIn 2007, the University of Chester accredited an employer based training program, \"Professional Certificate in Legal Account Management\" which provides a foundation degree course combining academic study with workplace learning. However, this is only available to employees of Quill Pinpoint, the employer associated with the scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "629729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629729", "title": "Legal deposit", "text": "Legal deposit\n\nLegal deposit is a legal requirement that a person or group submit copies of their publications to a repository, usually a library. The requirement is mostly limited to books and periodicals. The number of copies varies and can range from one to 19 (in Poland). Typically, the national library is one of the repositories of these copies. In some countries there is also a legal deposit requirement placed on the government, and it is required to send copies of documents to publicly accessible libraries.\n\nIn the year 2000, UNESCO published recommendations for the construction of legal deposit legislation.\n\nIn Australia, section 201 of Copyright Act 1968 and other state acts requires that a copy of all printed materials published in Australia be deposited with the National Library of Australia. State laws require books and a wide range of other materials published in each state to be deposited in the applicable state library. New South Wales, Queensland and South Australia also require books published in those states to be deposited in the library of the state parliament. New South Wales law also requires books published in that state to be deposited in the University of Sydney library.\n\nLegal deposit legislation in Brazil (\"Depósito legal\"), federal laws number 10994\nand 12192,\nrequires that one copy of every book, music or periodical published in the country be sent to the National Library of Brazil (known as Biblioteca Nacional, Biblioteca do Rio de Janeiro, or Fundação Biblioteca Nacional), located in the city of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nUnder the Preservation of Books Act (1967, revised in 1984), three copies of every \"book, report, pamphlet, periodical, newspaper, sheet of letterpress, sheet of music, map, plan, chart or table separated published\" shall be delivered to the Director of Museums within one month after the publication at one's own expense.\n\nIn Canada, the Library and Archives of Canada Act (2004) specifies that up to two copies of any published material must be deposited with Library and Archives Canada. Materials deposited in the archives are catalogued; the catalogs are available as part of the Library and Archives Canada website. The province of Quebec also requires deposit of two copies of any document be deposited to Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec within 7 days of its publication.\n\nIn China, Article 22 of \"Regulations on the Administration of Publication\" (2001) states that three copies of each printed publication should be submitted to the National Library of China, one copy to the Archives Library of Chinese Publications and one copy to the administrative department for publication under the State Council.\n\nIn Colombia, the law of legal deposit is regulated by Law 44 of 1993, the statutory Decree 460 of March 16 of 1999, and Decree 2150 of 1995. These laws and decrees are specifically about the National Library of Colombia. The creators of printed works, as well as audiovisual, audio, and video productions, should supply the library with a specified number of copies of the works, whether they were produced within the Colombian territory or imported.\n\nIn Denmark, legal deposit has been required since 1697, and is handled by the Royal Danish Library (for most written works) and by the State and University Library (for newspapers, audio, and video); two copies must be supplied. This also includes works in digital format, and the publisher may be required to supply the necessary passwords.\n\nLegal deposit of four copies of every publication is required to the National Library of the Faroe Islands under a law passed on July 16, 1952.\n\nIn Finland, The Royal Academy of Turku was given right to receive a copy of all works published in Sweden in 1707. After Finland had been ceded by Sweden to Russia, this privilege was confirmed in 1809. In 1820, all Russian print presses began to send legal deposit copies to Finland.\n\nGaining its independence in 1917, Finland retained the principles of legal deposit. Helsinki University Library (the university had been transferred from Turku in 1827) remained the main deposit library. Additional copies began to be deposited in other libraries in Turku, Jyväskylä, and Vyborg (later Oulu). In 1984, the obligation to deposit was expanded to audiovisual materials; responsibility to preserve films was given to the National Audiovisual Institute.\n\nA new act on depositing and preservation of cultural materials was given in 2007. The new act covers two new important types of cultural materials. The National Audiovisual Archive collects and preserves broadcast materials, whereas the National Library of Finland (Helsinki University Library renamed) takes care of capturing and preserving Web content.\n\nIn France, legal deposit was initiated by the Ordonnance de Montpellier of 1537, under which a copy of any published book had to be delivered to the king's library, for conservation purposes. During the following centuries, legal deposit was sometimes used to facilitate censorship and the obligation was thus removed briefly during the French Revolution, under the argument that it violated freedom of speech. The main depository is the Bibliothèque nationale de France. Legal deposit is extremely developed and concerns not only printed material but also multimedia archives and even some web pages.\n\nFrance is also unique in the world in funding the Osmothèque, a legal deposit scent and fragrance archive to preserve perfume formulas.\n\nIn Germany, since 1960, the German National Library Law has required that two copies of each print publication and of some non-print publications be sent to the German National Library in either Frankfurt am Main or Leipzig (depending on the publisher's location). Additionally, each federal state of Germany requires that one or two copies of works published in that state be deposited in the respective state repository.\n\nUnder the Books Registration Ordinance, 1976, the publisher of a new book shall, within one month after the book is published, printed, produced or otherwise made in Hong Kong, deliver to the Secretary for Broadcasting, Culture and Sport free of charge five copies of the book.\n\nA person who contravenes such requirement shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of HK$2000.\n\nThe secretary is required to send one copy to the City Hall Library, which was the main library of the previous Urban Council, (or such other library as he may approve), and the British Library Board.\n\nThis requirement did not include any library under the previous Regional Council (the another municipal council in Hong Kong), and was not amended since the Hong Kong Central Library was open and replaced the City Hall Library as the main library for the whole dependent territory.\n\nIn Iceland, four copies of any published, printed, material must be sent to the National and University Library of Iceland, three of which will be kept there, and one of which will be kept at Amtsbókasafnið á Akureyri in Akureyri. If fewer than 50 copies are made only two are required.\n\nThe Delivery of Books Act 1954 enacted by the Indian parliament regulates the deposit of books published in India to the National Library of India, Kolkata and three other libraries namely, Connemara Public Library, Chennai; Central Library, Mumbai and the Delhi Public Library. The Act was amended in 1956 to include periodicals and newspapers. The Indian National Bibliography is compiled on the receipt of books received under Delivery of Books Act at the National Library, Kolkata.\n\nOne copy of each book and periodical published in the Republic of Ireland must be deposited with the National Library of Ireland (NLI), the British Library, and each of the seven university libraries: Trinity College Library and those of the University of Limerick (UL), Dublin City University (DCU), and the four constituent universities of the National University of Ireland (NUI). Four other British libraries can submit a written request for a copy within a year: the Bodleian Library, Cambridge University Library, the National Library of Scotland and the National Library of Wales. Irish publishers have complained at the obligation to supply up to 13 free copies of works which may have a small print run. Trinity College Library incurs expense, partly reimbursed from public funds, in receiving UK books and acting as a clearing house for Irish books sent for UK deposit.\n\nThe Irish Free State in 1922 inherited the UK's Copyright Act 1911, which made Trinity College Library and those in Great Britain the legal deposits for UK-published books. When the Free State's first copyright law was debated in 1927, it was decided to retain Trinity College Library rather than the NLI as the deposit for UK books, on the grounds of continuity. It retains the status . Originally the 1927 bill proposed only to add the NLI as a deposit for Free State publishing; in committee the three then constituent colleges of the NUI were added as well, while status of the lesser British libraries was reduced from automatic to by request. St Patrick's College (predecessor of NUI Maynooth) was added in 1963, and UL and DCU in 1989 on promotion to university status. In 2000, the deposit requirement was extended to e-publishing, and libraries could request digital copies in addition to hard copies. In 2017, the NLI began a consultation on extending legal deposit to born-digital resources, which it had begun preserving in 2011 from voluntary deposits.\n\nIn Israel, \"The Books Law 2000 (5761)\" requires two copies of each publication to be sent to the National Library of Israel. At their request, the library of the Knesset and the Israel State Archive are entitled to receive one copy each.\n\nThe government authorities are required by the \"Freedom of Information Act, 1999\" to send an annual report of their actions to the public library of every town with 5,000 people or more.\n\nIn Italy, the law on legal deposit () requires a copy of each publication to be sent to both the National Central Library of Florence and National Central Library of Rome, as it has been since the institution of the Kingdom of Italy (1861).\n\nIn addition, the regions determine local regional and provincial legal deposit libraries, which receive two more copies and often inherit that status from their pre-unification history. For instance, the Biblioteca Nazionale Braidense is the Lombardy legal deposit library since 1788 (when it covered the Duchy of Milan), and the National Central Library of Florence since 1743 (for the Grand Duchy of Tuscany).\n\nThe legal deposit requirements for Japan's National Diet Library are specified in Chapters X through XI-3 of the National Diet Library Law. These requirements vary based on whether the publishing entity is governmental or nongovernmental, and on whether the work is published physically or online. Required works are books, pamphlets, serials, music scores, maps, films, other documents or charts, phonographic records, and digital text, images, sounds, or programs. Nongovernmental publishers must submit a single copy, and are entitled to \"compensation equivalent to the expenses usually required for the issue and deposit of the publication;\" noncompliance is subject to a fine.\n\nIn Kenya, the legal deposit regulation is covered under the Books and Newspaper Act Cap. 111 of 1960. It covers books (any volume), encyclopaedia, magazines, review, gazette, pamphlet, leaflet, sheet of letterpress, sheet of music, map, plan and chart. However, it gives exceptions to letter heading, price list, annual reports, trade circular, trade advertisement, government publications, legal, trade or business document. The Acts gives the mandate to Kenya National Library Service and the Registrar of Books and Newspapers. According to the Act, publishers should deposit two copies with the Director, Kenya National Library Service and not more than three copies to the Registrar of Books and Newspapers as it may be specified. The regulations were last reviewed in the year 2002 where penalties were specified for non-compliance.\n\nThe Liechtenstein State Library, colloquially known as the State Library, was formally established by law by the National Library Foundation in 1961. The State Library possesses a legal depository. As per the amended statutes, the roles of the State Library changed as such: the State Library now functions as a national library as well as a scientific and public library. As a national library, the State Library collects print materials, pictures and music created by citizens of Liechtenstein as well as items related to Liechtenstein. Also, the State Library acts as a patent library for the Principality of Liechtenstein and as such provides access to comprehensive international patent information. The State Library’s rules and regulations must follow the current legislation under Liechtenstein’s European Economic Area as well as Swiss legislation.\n\nIn Malaysia, according to the \"Akta Penyerahan Bahan Perpustakaan 1986\" (Deposit of Library Material Act 1986), five copies of printed library materials including books, printed materials, maps, charts and posters must be deposited to the National Library of Malaysia. In addition, two copies of non-printed library materials must also be deposited.\n\nIn Monaco four copies of locally produced books, computer software and media must be deposited in the Bibliothèque Louis Notari. If fewer than 100 copies were produced only two copies are required.\n\nThe legal deposit was initiated in 1903 in New Zealand, and requires that copies of all printed documents, offline documents (e.g. DVDs), internet publications and websites are sent to the National Library of New Zealand within 20 working days of publication. This process is given legal force by Part 4 of the National Library of New Zealand (Te Puna Mātauranga o Aotearoa) Act 2003. If more than 100 copies are printed in total, 2 copies must be provided, otherwise 1. If the price of 1 copy is greater than $1,000 NZD, only 1 copy is required.\n\nSince 1780 the Załuski Library has been entitled to a copy of all works published in Poland. In modern times the issue is regulated by a Decree of the Minister of Culture and Arts of March 6, 1997. The National Library of Poland and the Jagiellonian Library receive two copies of all publications, one of which is to be stored indefinitely. In addition to that, there are 15 other libraries to receive legal deposits to be stored for \"no less than 50 years\": Maria Curie-Skłodowska University Library, University of Łódź Library, Nicolaus Copernicus University Library, Adam Mickiewicz University Library, Warsaw University Library, University of Wrocław Library, Silesian Library, City of Warsaw Library, Pomeranian Library in Szczecin, University of Gdańsk Library, Catholic University of Lublin Library, University of Opole Library and Podlaskie Library in Białystok. The National Film Library (\"Filmoteka Narodowa\") is to receive all film productions, while the Sejm Library receives a copy of all legal documents.\n\nIn Portugal, all publishers are currently required to deposit 11 copies of all publications, which are distributed between the National Library of Portugal, municipal libraries of major cities, and the libraries of public institutions of science and higher learning. Special exceptions, of which only one copy is required (and stored in the National Library), include Masters and PhD dissertations, limited prints, stamps, plans, posters, among others.\n\nIn Romania, all publishers are required to deposit copies of publications at the National Library of Romania. For books and brochures the minimum requirement is 7 copies. For periodicals, school manuals and audiovisual publications, the legal deposit is 6 copies while for sheet music, atlases and maps the minimum requirement is 3 copies. Also, for PhD theses, the legal deposit is 1 copy.\n\nIn Russia the Russian State Library (Moscow), the National Library of Russia (St Petersburg), the Library of the Russian Academy of Sciences (St Petersburg), as well as the libraries of the Moscow State University, the President of the Russian Federation, and the two Houses of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation are entitled to a copy of every book published.\n\nIn Singapore, the \"National Library Board Act\" requires all publishers in Singapore to deposit two copies of every publication to the National Library Board at their own expense within four weeks from the publication date.\n\nThe forerunner of the National and University Library of Slovenia, the Lyceum Library of Ljubljana was established around 1774 by a decree issued by Maria Theresa from the remains of the Jesuit Library and several monastery libraries. The submission of legal deposit copies to the Lyceum library became mandatory with a decree published by the Austrian court in 1807, at first only in Carniola, except for a short period of French occupation, when it received copies from all the Illyrian provinces. In 1919, it was named \"State Reference Library\" and started to collect legal deposit copies from the Slovenia of the time. In the same year, the University of Ljubljana (the first Slovenian university) was established and the library served its needs too. In 1921, it started to acquire legal deposit copies from the entire Kingdom of Yugoslavia. It was named the University Library in 1938. Digitalna knjižnica Slovenije (Digital library of Slovenia) is a project of the National and University Library of Slovenia.\n\nIn South Africa the Legal Deposit Act, 1997 requires publishers to provide five copies of every book published, if the print run consists of 100 or more copies. These copies must be deposited in the National Library of South Africa (NLSA) in Cape Town, the NLSA in Pretoria, the Mangaung Library Services in Bloemfontein, the Msunduzi Municipal Library in Pietermaritzburg, and the Library of Parliament in Cape Town. If the print run is less than 100 copies, then only one copy is required, to be deposited in the NLSA in Cape Town. If it is less than 20 copies, then no deposit is required.\n\nFor films, videos and sound recordings, the requirements are the same, except that the National Film, Video and Sound Archives (NFVSA) receives a deposit copy instead of the Library of Parliament, and if only one copy is required it is deposited in the NFVSA rather than the NLSA.\n\nArticle 20 of the Library Act requires that one or two copies of any tangible material published or produced in the country be sent to the National Library of Korea within 30 days for permanent preservation. Copies of online materials must be submitted on demand.\n\nIn Spain, the obligation to deposit copies of printed materials has existed since 1619 for the Royal Library of El Escorial and since 1716 for the Royal Library of Madrid (later the National Library of Spain). From this moment, there followed multiple provisions, in the 19th century termed \"legal deposit\", all with the aim of enforcing compliance.\n\nThe decree of 1957 established a solid administrative base for legal deposit in Spain, based on the separation between provincial offices that managed legal deposit at the local level and conservation libraries, such as the National Library. The decree stipulated that printers were responsible for depositing several copies of all published works at the National Library and other public libraries. This legal deposit legislation covered a wide range of materials, including printed materials such as books and magazines, sound recordings, maps, movies, and postcards.\n\nThe 1957 decree, though superseded by other decrees in 1971 and 1973, remained almost intact until 2011, when a new legal deposit law was passed on July 29, 2011. Law 23/2011 established, among other things, that the publisher, not the printer, was the primary entity responsible for submitting its materials to legal deposit. It also established procedures for the legal deposit of electronic materials, including online ones. The number of copies that must be delivered to each library varies between two and four according to the type of material. Through legal deposit, the National Library collects all materials published in Spain. The central libraries for each autonomous community collect works published in their respective communities, and provincial libraries collect works published in their respective provinces.\n\nFirst legal deposit of Sri Lanka was established in 1885 at the National Museum Library. The law of the country (according to National Archives Act No. 48 of 1973). requires that a copy of every document printed in the country has to be deposited in the legal deposit. There are five legal deposits in the country. These are the National Archives of Sri Lanka, the National Library of Sri Lanka, the National Museum Library, the University of Peradeniya library and the Library, University of Ruhuna.\n\nThe Swedish Legal Deposit Act originates in 1661. According to present legislation, copies of printed material, sound and moving images has to be sent to The National Library of Sweden and Lund University Library (no audiovisual material). In 2012 the Legal Deposit Act for Electronic Material was passed. It states that starting in 2015, publishing companies and public authorities must deliver digitally published content to the National Library. In 2013-14 electronic legal deposits will start in a smaller scale.\n\nLegal deposit in the United Kingdom traces its origins to an agreement between Sir Thomas Bodley and the Stationer's Company that copies of new books would be added to the collection of the Bodleian Library in Oxford. The Statute of Anne (1710) formalised the practice by extending it, in England, to the Royal Library (now the British Library), Cambridge University Library, and the library of Sion College, and, in Scotland, to the Advocates' Library, and the universities of St. Andrews, Edinburgh, Glasgow and Aberdeen. Over the years the number of legal deposit libraries has gone up and down, but there are now six legal deposit libraries under UK law: the British Library; the National Library of Scotland; the National Library of Wales; the Bodleian Libraries, Oxford; the University Library, Cambridge; and the Library of Trinity College, Dublin. Although the Irish Free State left the UK in 1922, Trinity College remains a UK deposit library, and the UK libraries reciprocally retain deposit rights for Irish publications.\n\nThe Legal Deposit Libraries Act 2003 restates Section 15 of the Copyright Act 1911, that one copy of every book (which includes pamphlets, magazines, newspapers, sheet music and maps) published there must be sent to the British Library; five other libraries (the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford, Cambridge University Library, the National Library of Scotland, the library of Trinity College, Dublin and the National Library of Wales) are entitled to request a free copy within one year of publication, a process which they normally coordinate jointly through Agency for the Legal Deposit Libraries. The 2003 Act set out provisions for the deposit of non-print works. This legislation was updated with the introduction of secondary legislation, The Legal Deposit Libraries (Non-Print Works) Regulations 2013, which make provision for the legal deposit of works published online or offline in formats other than print, such as websites, blogs, e-journals and CD-ROMs. Social media content is included in the legislation, but not private message sent via social media platforms. Pure video streaming websites are also excluded from the legislation.\n\nIn the United States, any copyrighted and published work must be submitted in two copies to the United States Copyright Office at the Library of Congress. This mandatory deposit is not required to possess copyright of unpublished works, but a copyright registration can give an author enhanced remedies in case of a copyright violation. The Library of Congress does not retain all works.\n\nA legal requirement also rests on the US government. Over 1,250 federal depository libraries must receive a copy of all of the publications of the Government Publishing Office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7792117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7792117", "title": "Microsystems Software, Inc. v. Scandinavia Online AB", "text": "Microsystems Software, Inc. v. Scandinavia Online AB\n\nMicrosystems Software, Inc. v. Scandinavia Online AB is a 2000 US District Court civil case, numbered 00-cv10488-EFH, in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. It received considerable attention in the online community because it involved reverse engineering and cryptanalysis of content-control software, allegedly in violation of copyright law and a clickwrap license agreement.\n\nIn early 2000, Eddy L. O. Jansson and Matthew Skala reverse engineered the content-control package Cyber Patrol and published a report titled \"The Breaking of Cyber Patrol 4\" detailing what they found, including a cryptanalysis of the CRC-32-based hash function that concealed the configuration password and Web site and Usenet newsgroup blacklists. They commented critically on the content of the blacklist, and highlighted apparent errors in it, innocuous sites and newsgroups blocked as objectionable for no visible reason. Along with the essay, they included software in C and Delphi demonstrating the attacks and allowing users to disable the package, change its configuration, or browse the blacklists in decrypted form. The break was widely reported on March 11, 2000. \n\nOn March 15, Microsystems Software, the publisher of Cyber Patrol, and Mattel, its parent company, filed suit against Jansson, Skala, and the ISPs that hosted their personal Web sites, Scandinavia Online and Islandnet. They filed in US court, though Jansson and Scandinavia Online were located in Sweden and Skala and Islandnet were located in Canada. They alleged that the reverse engineering was copyright infringement by Jansson and Skala; that distributing the essay and software (or, in the case of Islandnet, the link on Skala's site pointing to the essay and software on Jansson's site) was copyright infringement by the ISPs; and that Jansson and Skala's actions constituted breach of the clickwrap license agreement on Cyber Patrol, interference with advantageous business relations, \nconversion, and theft of trade secrets. Once the lawsuit became known, it attracted considerable attention from the online community, far overshadowing the discussion of the reverse engineering itself. \n\nIn response to demands from the plaintiffs, Scandinavia Online deleted Jansson's Web site and Islandnet asked Skala to remove his link to Jansson's (now non-existent anyway) Web site. The document and software had already been mirrored on many sites worldwide, however. The plaintiffs asked for, and received, a temporary restraining order against distribution of what they termed the \"bypass code\", and were authorized to serve it by email on mirror sites, along with a subpoena demanding the identities of every Web user who accessed the information. Some commentators dubbed these email-distributed subpoenas \"spampoenas\"; use of email for official service of court documents was, and remains, highly unusual if not absolutely unheard of. \n\nOn March 27, Skala announced that he had settled the cases against him (including one filed in a Canadian court as well as the US case) out of court and that Jansson was close to doing the same, with an agreement to stop distributing the essay and software and assign its copyrights to the plaintiffs. Other parties had become involved, however, including three mirror site operators associated with Peacefire and backed by the ACLU. The suit continued \nwith the main issue being whether those mirror sites would also be forced to stop distributing the material. When their motions on that topic were dismissed, the mirror sites took that as an indication that they could continue to distribute it safely.\n\nMeanwhile, some controversy erupted when news sources suggested that the exploit software had been released under the GPL, making any restriction on its distribution problematic. Statements from Jansson and Skala denying any intention to place it under the GPL, the lack of any copyright notice in Skala's code, and a vague nonstandard GPL notice in Jansson's code, made it fall apart as a possible GPL test case. In 2001, Jansson stated on his Web site that he had in fact intended his code to be under the GPL after all, even if he had not put in the proper notices to make that stick. \n\nAt the time of the case, the DMCA was not relevant because its enforcement was under suspension pending a review by the United States Copyright Office of whether exceptions to its provisions should be made. Lawrence Lessig nonetheless used the Microsystems case as an example of tension between the DMCA and the First Amendment in his essay Battling Censorware; and when the Copyright Office issued their rulemaking on DMCA exemptions, they also cited this case in their discussion of why reverse engineering of content-filter blacklists was one of only two categories of activities exempted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51495782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51495782", "title": "Mount Ashland Ski Area Expansion", "text": "Mount Ashland Ski Area Expansion\n\nIn 1998, the Mount Ashland Association (MAA) proposed an expansion of the Mount Ashland Ski Area into land generally west and downslope of the existing ski area in the Middle Branch watershed of the East Fork of Ashland Creek. The proposal included construction of a second lodge near the base of the glacial moraine, a new chairlift in the Middle Branch watershed serving of new intermediate and advanced terrain, and 200 additional parking spaces.\n\nLeading local conservation groups objected to the expansion plan, citing concerns about the effects of soil erosion on streams and wetlands in Ashland's municipal watershed. There are also concerns for the Old-growth forest, the McDonald Peak Inventoried Roadless Area, and sensitive wildlife such as the Pacific Fisher.\n\nIn 2000, the United States Forest Service issued its first draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) considering the MAA expansion proposal. The EIS drew over 6,000 public comments, about half of which supported the MAA plan and half opposed.\n\nIn 2001, Jack Williams, supervisor of the Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest, announced preparation of another EIS draft to address public comment regarding a lack of alternatives to the MAA proposal.\n\nIn 2003, the Forest Service issued its second draft EIS on expansion, this one with a broader range of alternatives. The second option was the MAA's original ski area expansion proposal. The third would develop half of the MAA proposal on the east side of the Middle Branch watershed and avoid development on the west side of that creek, thereby reducing impacts to the McDonald Peak Roadless Area. The fourth would develop additional ski facilities east of the existing ski area on The Knoll. The fifth advanced a community proposal to develop the ski area largely within its existing footprint. The sixth slightly modified the MAA proposal with a different ski run placement and a wetland crossing design introduced by the Forest Service. The second EIS draft drew a similar level of public comment as the first one, with about 50 percent favouring the MAA plan and half opposed.\n\nIn December 2004, Scott Conroy, supervisor of the Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest, issued a Record of Decision that approved a blend of options 2 and 6 in the Final EIS. The Forest Service received 28 notices of appeal and denied all of them.\n\nIn January 2005, three organizations—Oregon Natural Resources Council, Headwaters and Sierra Club—and an individual, Eric Navickas, filed suit in the U.S. District Court of Oregon alleging that the Record of Decision violated the National Forest Management Act (NFMA) and the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). In February 2007, District Judge Owen Panner granted summary judgment to the Forest Service stating, \"You cannot make an omelette without breaking a few eggs.\"\n\nONRC, Headwaters and Sierra Club, but not Navickas, appealed Panner's judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. A motions panel of the appellate court issued an injunction that prevented implementation of the expansion while the conservation groups' appeal was under review. The motions panel, which included appointees of Presidents Jimmy Carter, George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush, cited a likelihood of irreparable harm to Pacific fisher, a rare forest carnivore known to hunt at the exact location where the ski area would expand.\n\nIn September 2007, the Court of Appeals issued an opinion written by Judge Milan Smith, an appointee of President George W. Bush, holding that the Forest Service violated federal law in four ways when it approved the ski area expansion. Specifically, the court held that the 2004 Record of Decision:\n\nThe appellate court specifically noted that the Aquatic Conservation Strategy of the Northwest Forest Plan \"prohibits the Forest Service from 'using mitigation or planned restoration as a substitute for preventing habitat degradation' within Riparian Reserves, and explains that 'priority must be given to protecting existing high-quality habitat' rather than compensating 'or management actions that degrade existing habitat' through mitigation and restoration.\" It remanded the case to the district court and instructed the lower court to enjoin the ski area expansion \"until the Forest Service has corrected the NFMA and NEPA violations we find in this opinion.\"\n\nIn October 2007, Linda Duffy, ranger of the Siskiyou Mountains Ranger District, announced that the Forest Service would produce a supplemental EIS to address the legal violations identified by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and move the ski area expansion forward.\n\nIn April 2011, the Forest Service issued a Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement regarding the Mt. Ashland Ski Area Expansion. It described approximately 67 acres of Riparian Reserve on geologically unstable lands that were overlooked in the 2004 Final EIS, as well as numerous locations where the expansion project would disturb hazardous landslide terrain. It further disclosed that the ski area expansion would render approximately 500 acres of roadless, old-growth forest habitat unusable to Pacific fisher.\n\nConcurrent with the supplemental EIS, forest supervisor Conroy issued a Supplemental Record of Decision approving the original expansion plan without modification. Subsequently, Judge Panner lifted the injunction on the expansion.\n\nIn 2013, the ski area successfully undertook several projects identified in its expansion plans, including a 20% increase to its parking lot and the widening the Sonnet beginner ski run, in addition to several other ski runs.\n\nIn late 2016, a three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit ruled in favor of the ski area over a complaint filed by Oregon Wild, Sierra Club and Center for Biological Diversity, challenging the Forest Service's failure to prepare a supplemental environmental impact statement for the Mount Ashland ski area expansion project.\n\n"}
{"id": "27741143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27741143", "title": "Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup", "text": "Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup\n\nMrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup is a patent medicine supposedly compounded by Mrs. Charlotte N. Winslow, and first marketed by her son-in-law Jeremiah Curtis and Benjamin A. Perkins of Bangor, Maine, USA in 1849. The formula consisted of morphine sulphate (65 mg per fluid ounce), sodium carbonate, spirits foeniculi, and aqua ammonia. It was claimed that it was \"likely to sooth any human or animal\", and it effectively quieted restless infants and small children especially for teething. It was widely marketed in the UK and the US. As well as newspapers, the company used various media to promote its product, including recipe books, calendars, and trade cards.\n\nIn 1911 the American Medical Association issued a publication titled \"Nostrums And Quackery\" in which, in a section called \"Baby Killers\", it incriminated Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup. The product was nevertheless not withdrawn from sale until 1930.\n\nIn 1879 the English composer Edward Elgar wrote an early musical work, part of his \"Harmony Music\" for a wind quintet, which he titled \"Mrs. Winslow's soothing syrup\". In Woody Guthrie's 1940 Dustbowl Ballad, \"Tom Joad\", Grandpa Joad is given soothing syrup before he dies.\n\n\"United States v. Johnson (1911)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54361", "title": "Neo-Nazism", "text": "Neo-Nazism\n\nNeo-Nazism consists of post-World War II militant social or political movements seeking to revive and implement the ideology of Nazism. Neo-Nazis seek to employ their ideology to promote hatred and attack minorities, or in some cases to create a fascist political state. It is a global phenomenon, with organized representation in many countries and international networks. It borrows elements from Nazi doctrine, including ultranationalism, racism, xenophobia, ableism, homophobia, anti-Romanyism, antisemitism, anti-communism and initiating the Fourth Reich. Holocaust denial is a common feature, as is the incorporation of Nazi symbols and admiration of Adolf Hitler.\n\nIn some European and Latin American countries, laws prohibit the expression of pro-Nazi, racist, anti-Semitic, or homophobic views. Many Nazi-related symbols are banned in European countries (especially Germany) in an effort to curtail neo-Nazism.\n\nThe term neo-Nazism describes any post-World War II militant, social or political movements seeking to revive the ideology of Nazism in whole or in part.\n\nThe term \"neo-Nazism\" can also refer to the ideology of these movements, which may borrow elements from Nazi doctrine, including ultranationalism, anti-communism, racism, ableism, xenophobia, homophobia, anti-Romanyism, antisemitism, up to initiating the Fourth Reich. Holocaust denial is a common feature, as is the incorporation of Nazi symbols and admiration of Adolf Hitler. \n\nNeo-Nazism is considered a particular form of far-right politics and right-wing extremism. \n\nNeo-Nazi writers have posited a spiritual, esoteric doctrine of race, which moves beyond the primarily Darwinian-inspired materialist scientific racism popular mainly in the Anglosphere during the 20th century. Figures influential in the development of neo-Nazi racism, such as Miguel Serrano and Julius Evola (writers who are described by critics of Nazism such as the Southern Poverty Law Center as influential within what it presents as parts of \"the bizarre fringes of National Socialism, past and present\"), claim that the Hyperborean ancestors of the Aryans were in the distant past, far higher beings than their current state, having suffered from \"involution\" due to mixing with the \"Telluric\" peoples; supposed creations of the Demiurge. Within this theory, if the \"Aryans\" are to return to the Golden Age of the distant past, they need to awaken the memory of the blood. An extraterrestrial origin of the Hyperboreans is often claimed. These theories draw influence from Gnosticism and Tantrism, building on the work of the Ahnenerbe. Within this racist theory, Jews are held up as the antithesis of nobility, purity and beauty.\n\nNeo-Nazism generally aligns itself with a blood and soil variation of environmentalism, which has themes in common with deep ecology, the organic movement and animal protectionism. This tendency, sometimes called \"ecofascism\", was represented in the original German National Socialism by Richard Walther Darré who was the Reichsminister of Food from 1933 until 1942.\n\nFollowing the defeat of Nazi Germany, the political ideology of the ruling party, Nazism, was in complete disarray. The final leader of the National Socialist German Workers' Party was Martin Bormann. He died on 2 May 1945 during the Battle of Berlin, but the Soviet Union did not reveal his death to the rest of the world, and his ultimate fate remained a mystery for many years. Conspiracy theories emerged about Hitler himself, that he had secretly survived the war and fled to South America or elsewhere.\n\nThe Allied Control Council officially dissolved the NSDAP on 10 October 1945, marking the end of \"Old\" National Socialism. A process of denazification began, and the Nuremberg trials took place, where many major leaders and ideologues were condemned to death by October 1946, others committed suicide.\n\nIn both the East and West, surviving ex-party members and military veterans assimilated to the new reality and had no interest in constructing a \"neo-Nazism.\" However, during the 1949 elections a number of National Socialist advocates such as Fritz Rössler had infiltrated the national conservative \"Deutsche Rechtspartei\", which had 5 members elected. Rössler and others left to found the more radical Socialist Reich Party under Otto Ernst Remer. At the onset of the Cold War, the SRP favoured the Soviet Union over the United States. \n\nIn Austria national independence had been restored, and the \"Verbotsgesetz 1947\" explicitly criminalised the NSDAP and any attempt at restoration. \nWest Germany adopted a similar law to target parties it defined as anti-constitutional; Article 21 Paragraph 2 in the Basic Law, banning the Socialist Reich Party in 1952 for being opposed to liberal democracy.\n\nAs a consequence some members of the nascent movement of German neo-Nazism joined the \"Deutsche Reichspartei\" of which Hans-Ulrich Rudel was the most prominent figure. Younger members founded the \"Wiking-Jugend\" modeled after the Hitler Youth. The \"Deutsche Reichspartei\" stood for elections from 1953 until 1961 fetching around 1% of the vote each time. Rudel befriended French-born Savitri Devi, who was a proponent of Esoteric Nazism. In the 1950s she wrote a number of books, such as \"Pilgrimage\" (1958), which concerns prominent Third Reich sites, and \"The Lightning and the Sun\" (1958), in which she claims that Adolf Hitler was an avatar of the God Vishnu. She was not alone in this reorientation of National Socialism towards its Thulean-roots; the \"Artgemeinschaft\", founded by former SS member Wilhelm Kusserow, attempted to promote a new paganism. \nIn the German Democratic Republic a former member of SA, Wilhelm Adam, founded the National Democratic Party of Germany (East Germany). It reached out to those attracted by the Nazi Party before 1945 and provide them with a political outlet, so that they would not be tempted to support the far-right again or turn to the anti-communist Western Allies. Stalin wanted to use them to create a new pro-Soviet and anti-Western strain in German politics. According to top Soviet diplomat Vladimir Semyonov, Stalin even suggested that they could be allowed to continue publishing their own newspaper, Völkischer Beobachter. While in Austria, former SS member Wilhelm Lang founded an esoteric group known as the Vienna Lodge; he popularised nazism and occultism such as the Black Sun and ideas of Third Reich survival colonies below the polar ice caps.\n\nWith the onset of the Cold War the allied forces had lost interest in prosecuting anyone as part of the denazification. In the mid-1950s this new political environment allowed Otto Strasser, an NS activist on the left of the NSDAP, who had founded the Black Front to return from exile. In 1956, Strasser founded the German Social Union as a Black Front successor, promoting a Strasserite \"nationalist and socialist\" policy, which dissolved in 1962 due to lack of support. Other Third Reich associated groups were the HIAG and Stille Hilfe dedicated to advancing the interests of Waffen-SS veterans and rehabilitating them into the new democratic society. However, they did not claim to be attempting to restore National Socialism, instead working with the social democrats and Christian democrats.\n\nMany bureaucrats who served under the Third Reich continued to serve in German administration after the war. According to the Simon Wiesenthal Center, many of the more than 90,000 Nazi war criminals recorded in German files were serving in positions of prominence under Chancellor Konrad Adenauer. Not until the 1960s were the former concentration camp personnel prosecuted by West Germany in the Belzec trial, Frankfurt Auschwitz trials, Treblinka trials, Chełmno trials, and the Sobibór trial. However, the government had passed laws prohibiting National Socialists from publicly expressing their beliefs.\n\nNeo-Nazism found expression outside of Germany, including in countries who fought against the Third Reich during the Second World War, and sometimes adopted Pan-European or \"Universal\" characteristics, beyond the parameters of German nationalism. The two main tendencies, with differing styles and even worldviews, were the followers of the American Francis Parker Yockey, who was fundamentally anti-American and advocated for a Pan-European nationalism and those of George Lincoln Rockwell an American conservative.\n\nYockey, a neo-Spenglerian author, had written \"Imperium: The Philosophy of History and Politics\" (1949) dedicated to \"the hero of the twentieth century\" (namely, Adolf Hitler) and founded the European Liberation Front. He was interested more in the destiny of Europe; to this end, he advocated a National Bolshevik-esque red-brown alliance against American culture and influenced 1960s figures such as SS-veteran Jean-François Thiriart. Yockey was also fond of Arab nationalism, in particular Gamal Abdel Nasser, as well as this he saw Fidel Castro's Cuban Revolution as a positive and visited officials there. Yockey's views impressed Otto Ernst Remer and the radical traditionalist philosopher Julius Evola. He was constantly hounded by the FBI and was eventually arrested in 1960, before committing suicide. Domestically, Yockey's biggest sympathisers were the National Renaissance Party, including James H. Madole, H. Keith Thompson and Eustace Mullins (\"protégé\" of Ezra Pound) and the Liberty Lobby of Willis Carto.\n\nRockwell, an American conservative, was first politicised by anti-communism and opposed to racial integration, before becoming anti-Jewish. In response to his opponents calling him a \"Nazi\", he theatrically appropriated the aesthetic elements of the NSDAP, to \"own\" the intended insult. In 1959, Rockwell founded the American Nazi Party and instructed his members to dress in imitation SA-style brown shirts, while flying the flag of the Third Reich. In contrast to Yockey, he was pro-American and cooperated with FBI requests, despite the party being targeted under COINTELPRO due to the mistaken belief that they were agents of Nasser's Egypt during a brief intelligence \"brown scare.\" Later leaders of American white nationalism came to politics through the ANP; including a teenage David Duke and William Luther Pierce of the National Alliance, although they soon distanced themselves from explicit self-identification with neo-Nazism.\n\nIn 1961, the World Union of National Socialists was founded by Rockwell and Colin Jordan of the British National Socialist Movement, adopting the \"Cotswold Declaration.\" French socialite Françoise Dior was involved romantically with Jordan and his deputy John Tyndall and a friend of Savitri Devi, who also attended the meeting. The National Socialist Movement wore quasi-SA uniforms, was involved in streets conflicts with the Jewish 62 Group. In the 1970s, Tyndall's earlier involvement with neo-Nazism would come back to haunt the National Front, which he led, as they attempted to ride a wave of anti-immigration populism and concerns over British national decline. Televised exposes on \"This Week\" in 1974 and \"World in Action\" in 1978, showed their neo-Nazi pedigree and damaged their electoral chances. In 1967, Rockwell was killed by a disgruntled former member. Matthias Koehl took control of the ANP, and strongly influenced by Savitri Devi, gradually transformed it into an esoteric group known as the New Order.\n\nIn Franco's Spain, certain SS refugees most notably Otto Skorzeny, Léon Degrelle and the son of Klaus Barbie became associated with CEDADE (\"Círculo Español de Amigos de Europa\"), an organisation which disseminated Third Reich apologetics out of Barcelona. They intersected with neo-Nazi advocates from Mark Fredriksen in France to Salvador Borrego in Mexico. \nIn the post-fascist Italian Social Movement splinter groups such as Ordine Nuovo and Avanguardia Nazionale, involved in the \"Years of Lead\" considered National Socialism a reference. Franco Freda created a \"Nazi-Maoist\" synthesis. \n\nIn Germany itself, the various Third Reich nostalgic movements coalesced around the National Democratic Party of Germany in 1964 and in Austria the National Democratic Party in 1967 as the primary sympathisers of the NSDAP past, although more publicly cautious than earlier groups.\n\nHolocaust denial, the claim that six million Jews were not deliberately and systematically exterminated as an official policy of the Third Reich and Adolf Hitler, became a more prominent feature of neo-Nazism in the 1970s. Before this time, Holocaust denial had long existed as a sentiment among neo-Nazis, but it had not yet been systematically articulated as a theory with a bibliographical canon. Few of the major theorists of Holocaust denial (who call themselves \"revisionists\") can be uncontroversially classified as outright neo-Nazis (though some works such as those of David Irving forward a clearly sympathetic view of Hitler and the publisher Ernst Zündel was deeply tied to international neo-Nazism), however, the main interest of Holocaust denial to neo-Nazis was their hope that it would help them rehabilitate their political ideology in the eyes of the general public. \"Did Six Million Really Die?\" (1974) by Richard Verrall and \"The Hoax of the Twentieth Century\" (1976) by Arthur Butz are popular examples of Holocaust denial material.\n\nKey developments in international neo-Nazism during this time include the radicalisation of the \"Vlaamse Militanten Orde\" under former Hitler Youth member Bert Eriksson. They began hosting an annual conference; the \"Iron Pilgrimage\"; at Diksmuide, which drew kindred ideologues from across Europe and beyond. As well as this, the NSDAP/AO under Gary Lauck arose in the United States in 1972 and challenged the international influence of the Rockwellite WUNS. Lauck's organisation drew support from the National Socialist Movement of Denmark of Povl Riis-Knudsen and various German and Austrian figures who felt that the \"National Democratic\" parties were too bourgeois and insufficiently National Socialist in orientation. This included Michael Kühnen, Christian Worch, Bela Ewald Althans and Gottfried Küssel of the 1977-founded ANS/NS which called for the establishment of a Germanic Fourth Reich. Some ANS/NS members were imprisoned for planning paramilitary attacks on NATO bases in Germany and planning to liberate Rudolf Hess from Spandau Prison. The organisation was officially banned in 1983 by the Minister of the Interior.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, a British subculture came to be associated with neo-Nazism; the skinheads. Portraying an ultra-masculine, crude and aggressive image, with working-class references, some of the skinheads joined the British Movement under Michael McLaughlin (successor of Colin Jordan), while others became associated with the National Front's Rock Against Communism project which was meant to counter the SWP's Rock Against Racism. The most significant music group involved in this project was Skrewdriver, led by Ian Stuart Donaldson. Together with ex-BM member Nicky Crane, Donaldson founded the international Blood & Honour network in 1987. By 1992 this network, with input from Harold Covington, had developed a paramilitary wing; Combat 18, which intersected with football hooligan firms such as the Chelsea Headhunters. The neo-Nazi skinhead movement spread to the United States, with groups such as the Hammerskins. It was popularised from 1986 onwards by Tom Metzger of the White Aryan Resistance. Since then it has spread across the world. Films such as \"Romper Stomper\" (1992) and \"American History X\" (1998) would fix a public perception that neo-Nazism and skinheads were synonymous.\n\nNew developments also emerged on the esoteric level, as former Chilean diplomat Miguel Serrano built on the works of Carl Jung, Otto Rahn, Wilhelm Landig, Julius Evola and Savitri Devi to bind together and develop already existing theories. Serrano had been a member of the National Socialist Movement of Chile in the 1930s and from the early days of neo-Nazism he had been in contact with key figures across Europe and beyond. Despite this, he was able to work as an ambassador to numerous countries until the rise of Salvador Allende. In 1984 he published his book \"Adolf Hitler: The Ultimate Avatar\". Serrano claimed that the Aryans were extragalactic beings who founded Hyperborea and lived the heroic life of Bodhisattvas, while the Jews were created by the Demiurge and were concerned only with coarse materialism. Serrano claimed that a new Golden Age can be attained if the Hyperboreans repurify their blood (supposedly the light of the Black Sun) and restore their \"blood-memory.\" As with Savitri Devi before him, Serrano's works became a key point of reference in neo-Nazism.\n\nWith the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union during the early 1990s, neo-Nazism began to spread its ideas in the East, as hostility to the triumphant liberal order was high and revanchism a widespread feeling. In Russia, during the chaos of the early 1990s, an amorphous mixture of KGB hardliners, Orthodox neo-Tsarist nostalgics (i.e. - Pamyat) and explicit National Socialists found themselves strewn together in the same camp. They were united by opposition to the influence of the United States, against the liberalising legacy of Mikhail Gorbachev's \"perestroika\" and on the Jewish question, Soviet Zionology merged with a more explicit anti-Jewish sentiment. The most significant organisation representing this was Russian National Unity under the leadership of Alexander Barkashov, where black-uniform clad Russians marched with a red flag incorporating the Swastika under the banner of \"Russia for Russians.\" These forces came together in a last gasp effort to save the Supreme Soviet of Russia against Boris Yeltsin during the 1993 Russian constitutional crisis. As well as events in Russia, in newly independent ex-Soviet states, annual commemorations for SS volunteers now took place; particularly in Latvia, Estonia and the Ukraine.\n\nThe Russian developments excited German neo-Nazism who dreamed of a Berlin—Moscow alliance against the supposedly \"decadent\" Atlanticist forces; a dream which had been thematic since the days of Remer. Zündel visited Russia and met with Russian National Unity luminaries such as ex-KGB general Aleksandr Stergilov. Despite these initial aspirations, international neo-Nazism and its close affiliates in ultra-nationalism would be split over the Bosnian War between 1992 and 1995, as part of the breakup of Yugoslavia. The split would largely be along ethnic and sectarian lines. The Germans and the French would largely back the Western Catholic Croats (Lauck's NSDAP/AO explicitly called for volunteers, which Kühnen's Free German Workers' Party answered and the French formed the \"Groupe Jacques Doriot\"), while the Russians and the Greeks would back the Orthodox Serbs (including Russians from Barkashov's Russian National Unity, Eduard Limonov's National Bolshevik Front and Golden Dawn members joined the Greek Volunteer Guard). Indeed, the revival of National Bolshevism was able to steal some of the thunder from overt Russian neo-Nazism, as ultra-nationalism was wedded with veneration of Joseph Stalin in place of Adolf Hitler, while still also flirting with National Socialist aesthetics.\n\nOutside Germany, in other countries which were involved with the Axis powers and had their own native ultra-nationalist movements, which sometimes collaborated with the Third Reich but were not technically German-style National Socialists, revivalist and nostalgic movements have emerged in the post-war period which, as neo-Nazism has done in Germany, seek to rehabilitate their various loosely associated ideologies. These movements include neo-fascists and post-fascists in Italy; Vichyites, Pétainists and \"national Europeans\" in France; Ustaše sympathisers in Croatia; neo-Chetniks in Serbia; Iron Guard revivalists in Romania; Hungarists and Horthyists in Hungary; Banderaists in the Ukraine (which had a complicated relationship with the Axis powers) and others.\n\nFollowing the last stand of Italian fascism with the German-supported Italian Social Republic towards the end of the Second World War, those elements within Italian society which remained loyal to the legacy of Benito Mussolini and fascism (especially veterans of the National Republican Army), rejecting both the Catholic and Communist alternatives prominent in mainstream Italian politics, founded the Italian Social Movement in 1946 under Giorgio Almirante. The MSI was regarded as the successor of the National Fascist Party and the Republican Fascist Party. The motto of the party was \"not repudiate, not restore\", indicating a more moderate parliamentary democratic neo-fascism, which did not heap scorn on the recent past. Italian society did not undergo a process as extensive as the post-war Denazification campaign in occupied Germany, partly due to the Cold War and the Western Allies not wanting Italy to move towards the Warsaw Pact (which was not an impossibility at the time).\n\nThe Italian Social Movement held a similar position in Italian politics that the National Democratic Party of Germany did in Germany; careful enough to stay within the laws of the new democratic state, but still clearly identified with the Axis legacy. During the 1950s, the MSI moved closer to bourgeois conservative politics on the domestic front, which led to radical youths founding hardline splinter groups, such as Pino Rauti's Ordine Nuovo (later succeeded by Ordine Nero) and Stefano Delle Chiaie's Avanguardia Nazionale. These organisations were influenced by the esotericism of Julius Evola and considered the Waffen-SS and Romanian leader Corneliu Zelea Codreanu a reference, moving beyond Italian fascism. They were implicated in paramiliary attacks during the late 1960s to the early 1980s, such as the Piazza Fontana bombing. Delle Chiaie had even assisted Junio Valerio Borghese in a failed 1970 coup attempt known as the Golpe Borghese, which attempted to reinstate a fascist state in Italy.\n\nDuring the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Italian Social Movement under the leadership of Gianfranco Fini moved closer to conservative politics, adopting a \"post-fascist\" position. This was opposed by the fascist element under Rauti who created Fiamma Tricolore in 1995. The party was dissolved under Fini in 1995, who replaced it with the National Alliance. This party rapidly moved away from any connection to the fascist past, towards the center-right in coalition with Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia. The two parties merged in 2009 to become The People of Freedom. Alessandra Mussolini, troubled by Fini's explicit condemnation of her grandfather broke with the AN to found Social Action. Aside from Fiamma Tricolore, the other extant neo-fascist groups in Italy are Forza Nuova, the Fronte Nazionale, Movimento Idea Sociale (another Rauti creation) and the cultural \"CasaPound\" project. In terms of current size, they are mostly negligible.\n\nIn France, the most enthusiastic collaborationists during the German occupation of France had been the National Popular Rally of Marcel Déat (former SFIO members) and the French Popular Party of Jacques Doriot (former French Communist Party members). These two groups, like the Germans, saw themselves as combining ultra-nationalism and socialism. In the south there existed the vassal state of Vichy France under the military \"Hero of the Verdun\", Marshal Philippe Pétain whose \"Révolution nationale\" emphasised an authoritarian Catholic conservative politics. Following the liberation of France and the creation of the Fourth French Republic, collaborationists were prosecuted during the \"épuration légale\" and nearly 800 put to death for treason under Charles de Gaulle.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Second World War, the main concern of the French radical right was the collapse of the French Empire, in particular the Algerian War, which led to the creation of the OAS. Outside of this, individual fascistic activists such as Maurice Bardèche (brother-in-law of Robert Brasillach), as well as SS-veterans Saint-Loup and René Binet, were active in France and involved in the European Social Movement and later the New European Order, alongside similar groups from across Europe. Early neo-fascist groups included Jeune Nation, which introduced the Celtic cross into use by radical right groups (an association which would spread internationally). A \"neither East, nor West\" pan-Europeanism was most popular among French fascistic activists until the late 1960s, partly motivated by feelings of national vulnerability following the collapse of their empire; thus the Belgian SS-veteran Jean-François Thiriart's group Jeune Europe also had a considerable French contingent.\n\nIt was the 1960s, during the Fifth French Republic, that a considerable upturn in French neo-fascism occurred; some of it in response to the Protests of 1968. The most explicitly pro-Nazi of these was the FANE of Mark Fredriksen. Neo-fascist groups included Pierre Sidos' Occident, the Ordre Nouveau (which was banned after violent clashes with the Trotskyist LCR) and the student-based Groupe Union Défense. A number of these activists such as François Duprat were instrumental in founding the Front National under Jean-Marie Le Pen; but the FN also included a broader selection from the French hard-right, including not only these neo-fascist elements, but also Catholic integrists, monarchists, Algerian War veterans, Poujadists and national-conservatives. Others from these neo-fascist micro-groups formed the Parti des forces nouvelles working against Le Pen.\n\nWithin the FN itself, Duprat founded the FANE-backed Groupes nationalistes révolutionnaires faction, until his 1978 assassination. The subsequent history of the French hard right has been the conflict between the national-conservative controlled FN and \"national revolutionary\" (fascistic and National Bolshevik) splinter or opposition groups. The latter include groups in the tradition of Thiriart and Duprat, such as the Parti communautaire national-européen, Troisième voie, the Nouvelle Résistance of Christian Bouchet, Unité Radicale and most recently Bloc identitaire. Direct splits from the FN include the 1987 founded FANE-revival Parti nationaliste français et européen, which was disbanded in 2000. Neo-Nazi organizations are outlawed in the Fifth French Republic, yet a significant number of them still exist.\n\nNeo-Nazis in Croatia base their ideology on the writings of Ante Pavelić and the Ustaše, a fascist anti-Yugoslav separatist movement. The Ustaše regime committed a genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma. At the end of World War II, many Ustaše members fled to the West, where they found sanctuary and continued their political and terrorist activities (which were tolerated due to Cold War hostilities). \n\nIn 1999, Zagreb's Square of the Victims of Fascism was renamed \"Croatian Nobles Square\", provoking widespread criticism of Croatia's attitude towards the Holocaust. In 2000, the Zagreb City Council again renamed the sqare into \"Square of the Victims of Fascism\". Many streets in Croatia were renamed after the prominent Ustaše figure Mile Budak, which provoked outrage amongst the Serbian minority. Since 2002, there has been a reversal of this development, and streets with the name of Mile Budak or other persons connected with the Ustaše movement are few or non-existent. A plaque in Slunj with the inscription \"Croatian Knight Jure Francetić\" was erected to commemorate Francetić, the notorious Ustaše leader of the Black Legion. The plaque remained there for four years, until it was removed by the authorities. \n\nIn 2003, Croatian penal code was amended with provisions prohibiting the public display of Nazi symbols, the propagation of Nazi ideology, historical revisionism and holocaust denial but the amendments were annulled in 2004 since they weren't enacted in accordance with a constitutionally prescribed procedure. Nevertheless, since 2006 Croatian penal code explicitly prohibits any type of hate crime based on race, color, gender, sexual orientation, religion or national origin.\n\nThere have been instances of hate speech in Croatia, such as the use of the phrase \"Srbe na vrbe!\" (\"(Hang) Serbs on the willow trees!\"). In 2004, an Orthodox church was spray-painted with pro-Ustaše graffiti. During some protests in Croatia, supporters of Ante Gotovina and other at the time suspected war criminals (all acquitted in 2012) have carried nationalist symbols and pictures of Pavelić. On 17 May 2007, a concert in Zagreb by Thompson, a popular Croatian singer, was attended by 60,000 people, some of them wearing Ustaše uniforms. Some gave Ustaše salutes and shouted the Ustaše slogan \"Za dom spremni\" (For the homeland – ready!). This event prompted the Simon Wiesenthal Center to publicly issue a protest to the Croatian president. Cases of displaying Ustashe memorabilia have been recorded at the commemoration for the Bleiburg repatriations held annually in Bleiburg, Austria.\n\nAn example of neo-Nazism in Serbia is the group Nacionalni stroj. In 2006 charges were brought against 18 leading members. The other organization was Obraz which was banned on 12 June 2012 by Constitutional Court of Serbia. Besides political parties, there are a few militant neo-Nazi organizations in Serbia, such as Blood & Honour Serbia and Combat 18.\n\nIn Hungary, the historical political party which allied itself ideologically with German National Socialism and drew inspiration from it, was the Arrow Cross Party of Ferenc Szálasi. They referred to themselves explicitly as National Socialists and within Hungarian politics this tendency is known as Hungarism. After the Second World War, exiles such as Árpád Henney kept the Hungarist tradition alive. Following the fall of the Hungarian People's Republic in 1989, which was a Marxist-Leninist state and a member of the Warsaw Pact, many new parties emerged. Amongst these was the Hungarian National Front of István Győrkös, which was a Hungarist party and considered itself the heirs of Arrow Cross-style National Socialism (a self-description they explicitly embraced); it forged links with Gottfried Küssel and the NSDAP/AO. In the 2000s, Győrkös' movement moved closer to a national communist and neo-Eurasian position, aligned with Aleksandr Dugin, cooperating with the Hungarian Workers' Party. Some Hungarists opposed this and founded the Pax Hungarica Movement. \n\nIn modern Hungary, the ultranationalist Jobbik is regarded by some scholars as a neo-Nazi party; for example, it has been termed as such by Randolph L. Braham. The party denies being neo-Nazi, although \"there is extensive proof that the leading members of the party made no effort to hide their racism and anti-Semitism.\" Rudolf Paksa, a scholar of the Hungarian far right, describes Jobbik as \"anti-Semitic, racist, homophobic and chauvinistic\" but not as neo-Nazi because it does not pursue the establishment of a totalitarian regime. Historian Krisztián Ungváry writes that \"It is safe to say that certain messages of Jobbik can be called open neo-Nazi propaganda. However, it is quite certain that the popularity of the party is not due to these statements.\"\n\nIn Romania, the ultra-nationalist movement which allied itself with the Axis powers and German National Socialism was the Iron Guard, also known as the Legion of the Archangel Michael. There are some modern political organisations which consider themselves heirs of Legionarism, this includes Noua Dreaptă and the \"Everything For the Country\" Party, founded by former Iron Guard members. The latter organisation was outlawed in 2015. Aside, from these Romanian organisations, the Sixty-Four Counties Youth Movement representing ultra-nationalism from the Hungarian minority is also present, especially in Transylvania. Other nationalistic and irridentist groups such as the Greater Romania Party do not originate from Legionarism, but in fact grew out of national communist tendencies from the era of Nicolae Ceaușescu (the party was founded by his \"court poet\" Corneliu Vadim Tudor).\n\nIn 1991 Svoboda was founded as the Social-National Party of Ukraine. The party combined radical nationalism and neo-Nazi features. It was renamed and rebranded 13 years later as All-Ukrainian Association Svoboda in 2004 under Oleh Tyahnybok. In 2016, \"The Nation\" reported that \"in Ukrainian municipal elections held [in October 2015], the neo-Nazi Svoboda party won 10 percent of the vote in Kiev and placed second in Lviv. The Svoboda party’s candidate actually won the mayoral election in the city of Konotop.\" The Svoboda party mayor in Konotop reportedly has the number \"14/88\" displayed on his car and has refused to display the city's official flag because it contains a star of David, and has implied that Jews were responsible for the Holodomor.\n\nThe topic of Ukrainian nationalism and its alleged relationship to neo-Nazism came to the fore in polemics about the more radical elements involved in the Euromaidan protests and subsequent Ukrainian crisis from 2013 onward. Some Russian, Latin American, U.S. and Israeli media have attempted to portray the Ukrainian nationalists in the conflict as neo-Nazi. The main Ukrainian organisations involved with a neo-Banderaite legacy are Right Sector, Svoboda and Azov Battalion. The persons regarded as Ukraine's national heroes — Stepan Bandera, Roman Shukhevych or Dmytro Klyachkivsky of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN) and Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA) — at times supported and then opposed the presence of the Third Reich in Ukraine.\n\nAfter Yanokovych's ouster in February 2014, the interim Yatsenyuk Government placed 4 Svoboda members in leading positions: Oleksandr Sych as Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ihor Tenyukh as Minister of Defense, lawyer Ihor Shvaika as Minister of Agrarian Policy and Food and Andriy Mokhnyk as Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Since 14 April 2016 the Chairman of the Ukrainian Parliament has been Andriy Parubiy, the co-founder of the neo-Nazi Social-National Party of Ukraine.\n\nIn June 2015, Democratic Representative John Conyers and his Republican colleague Ted Yoho offered bipartisan amendments to block the U.S. military training of Ukraine's Azov Battalion — called a “neo-Nazi paramilitary militia” by Conyers and Yoho. Andriy Biletsky, the head of the ultra-nationalist and neo-Nazi political groups Social-National Assembly and Patriots of Ukraine, has been commander of the Azov Battalion. Azov Battalion of the Ukrainian National Guard is fighting pro-Russian separatists in the War in Donbass. Some members of the battalion are openly white supremacists.\n\nThe most significant case on an international level was the election of Kurt Waldheim to the Presidency of Austria in 1986. It came to light that Waldheim had been a member of the National Socialist German Students' League, the SA and served as an intelligence officer during the Second World War. Following this he served as an Austrian diplomat and was the Secretary-General of the United Nations from 1972 until 1981. After revelations of Waldheim's past were made by an Austrian journalist, Waldheim clashed with the World Jewish Congress on the international stage. Waldheim's record was defended by Bruno Kreisky, an Austrian Jew who served as Chancellor of Austria. The legacy of the affair lingers on, as Victor Ostrovsky has claimed the Mossad doctored the file of Waldheim to implicate him in war crimes.\n\nSome critics have sought to draw a connection between Nazism and modern right-wing populism in Europe, but the two are not widely regarded as interchangeable by most academics. In Austria, the Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) served as a shelter for ex-Nazis almost from its inception. In 1980, scandals undermined Austria's two main parties and the economy stagnated. Jörg Haider became leader of the FPÖ and offered partial justification for Nazism, calling its employment policy effective. In the 1994 Austrian election, the FPÖ won 22 percent of the vote, as well as 33 percent of the vote in Carinthia and 22 percent in Vienna; showing that it had become a force capable of reversing the old pattern of Austrian politics.\n\nHistorian Walter Laqueur writes that even though Haider welcomed former Nazis at his meetings and went out of his way to address Schutzstaffel (SS) veterans, the FPÖ is not a fascist party in the traditional sense, since it has not made anti-communism an important issue, and it does not advocate the overthrow of the democratic order or the use of violence. In his view, the FPÖ is \"not quite fascist\", although it is part of a tradition, similar to that of 19th-century Viennese mayor Karl Lueger, which involves nationalism, xenophobic populism, and authoritarianism. Haider, who in 2005 left the Freedom Party and formed the Alliance for Austria's Future, was killed in a traffic accident in October 2008.\n\nBarbara Rosenkranz, the Freedom Party's candidate for the Austrian presidential election, 2010, is controversial for having made allegedly pro-Nazi statements. Rosenkranz is married to Horst Rosenkranz, a key member of a banned neo-Nazi party, who is known for publishing far-right books. Rosenkranz says she cannot detect anything \"dishonourable\" in her husband's activities.\n\nA Belgian neo-Nazi organization, Bloed, Bodem, Eer en Trouw (Blood, Soil, Honour and Loyalty), was created in 2004 after splitting from the international network (Blood and Honour). The group rose to public prominence in September 2006, after 17 members (including 11 soldiers) were arrested under the December 2003 anti-terrorist laws and laws against racism, antisemitism and supporters of censorship. According to Justice Minister Laurette Onkelinx and Interior Minister Patrick Dewael, the suspects (11 of whom were members of the military) were preparing to launch terrorist attacks in order to \"destabilize\" Belgium. According to the journalist Manuel Abramowicz, of the Resistances, the extremists of the radical right have always had as its aim to \"infiltrate the state mechanisms,\" including the army in the 1970s and the 1980s, through Westland New Post and the Front de la Jeunesse.\n\nA police operation, which mobilized 150 agents, searched five military barracks (in Leopoldsburg near the Dutch border, Kleine-Brogel, Peer, Brussels (Royal military school) and Zedelgem) as well as 18 private addresses in Flanders. They found weapons, munitions, explosives and a homemade bomb large enough to make \"a car explode\". The leading suspect, B.T., was organizing the trafficking of weapons and was developing international links, in particular with the Dutch far-right movement De Nationale Alliantie.\nThe neo-Nazi white nationalist organization Bosanski Pokret Nacionalnog Ponosa (Bosnian Movement of National Pride) was founded in Bosnia and Herzegovina in July 2009. Its model is the Waffen-SS Handschar Division, which was composed of Bosniak volunteers. It proclaimed its main enemies to be \"Jews, Roma, Serbian Chetniks, the Croatian separatists, Josip Broz Tito, Communists, homosexuals and blacks\". Its ideology is a mixture of Bosnian nationalism, National Socialism and white nationalism. It says \"\"Ideologies that are not welcome in Bosnia are: Zionism, Islamism, communism, capitalism. The only ideology good for us is Bosnian nationalism because it secures national prosperity and social justice...\" The group is led by a person nicknamed Sauberzwig, after the commander of the 13th SS Handschar. The group's strongest area of operations is in the Tuzla area of Bosnia.\n\nThe government of the Czech Republic strictly punishes neo-Nazism (Czech: \"Neonacismus\"). According to a report by the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic, neo-Nazis committed more than 211 crimes in 2013. The Czech Republic has various neo-Nazi groups. One of them is the group Wotan Jugend, based in Germany.\n\nIn 2006, Roman Ilin, a Jewish theatre director from St. Petersburg, Russia, was attacked by neo-Nazis when returning from an underground tunnel after a rehearsal. Ilin subsequently accused Estonian police of indifference after filing the incident. When a dark-skinned French student was attacked in Tartu, the head of an association of foreign students claimed that the attack was characteristic of a wave of neo-Nazi violence. An Estonian police official, however, stated that there were only a few cases involving foreign students over the previous two years. In November 2006, the Estonian government passed a law banning the display of Nazi symbols.\n\nThe 2008 United Nations Human Rights Council Special Rapporteur's Report noted that community representatives and non-governmental organizations devoted to human rights had pointed out that neo-Nazi groups were active in Estonia—particularly in Tartu—and had perpetrated acts of violence against non-European minorities.\n\nFollowing the failure of the National Democratic Party of Germany in the election of 1969, small groups committed to the revival of Nazi ideology began to emerge in Germany. The NPD splintered following the election giving rise to paramilitary \"Wehrsportgruppe\". These groups attempted to organize under a national umbrella organization called the Action Front of National Socialists/National Activists. Neo-Nazi movements in East Germany were borne of rebellion against the Communist regime; the banning of Nazi symbols created fertile ground for neo-Nazism, then in its infancy, to develop as an anti-authoritarian youth movement. Bands like Skrewdriver served as tools for far-right recruitment; mail order networks developed to send verböten Nazi-themed music cassettes and merchandise to Germany.\n\nTurks in Germany have been victims of neo-Nazi violence on several occasions. In 1992, two young girls, aged 10 and 14, were killed in the Mölln arson attack along with their grandmother; 9 others were injured. In 1993, 5 Turks were killed in the Solingen arson attack. In response to the fire Turkish youth in Solingen rioted chanting \"Nazis out!\" and \"We want Nazi blood\". In other parts of Germany police had to intervene to protect skinheads from assault. The Hoyerswerda riots and Rostock-Lichtenhagen riots targeting migrants and ethnic minorities living in Germany also took place during the 1990s.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2007, eight Turkish immigrants, one Greek and a German policewoman were murdered by the neo-Nazi National Socialist Underground. The NSU has its roots in the former East German town of Thuringia, which \"The Guardian\" identified as \"one of the heartlands of Germany’s radical right\". The German intelligence services have been criticized for extravagant distributions of cash to informants within the far right movement. Tino Brandt publicly boasted on television that he had received around €100,000 in funding from the German state. Though Brandt did not give the state \"useful information\", the funding supported recruitment efforts in Thuringia during the early 1990s. (Brandt was eventually sentenced to five and a half years in prison on for 66 counts of child prostitution and child sexual abuse). \n\nPolice were only able to locate the killers when they were tipped off following a botched bank robbery in Eisenach. As the police closed in on them, the two men committed suicide. They had evaded capture for 13 years. Beate Zschäpe, who had been living with the two men in Zwickau, turned herself in to the German authorities a few days later. Zschäpe's trial began in May 2013; she was charged with nine counts of murder. She plead \"not guilty\". According to \"The Guardian\", the NSU may have enjoyed protection and support from certain \"elements of the state\". Anders Breivik, a fan of Zschäpe's, reportedly sent her a letter from prison in 2012.\n\nAccording to the annual report of Germany's interior intelligence service (Verfassungsschutz) for 2012, at the time there were 26,000 right-wing extremists living in Germany, including 6,000 neo-Nazis. The neo-Nazi organizations are not outlawed in Germany, although Holocaust denial is a crime, according to the German Criminal Code (Strafgesetzbuch § 86a) and § 130 (public incitement).\n\nIn April 1967, a few weeks prior to an election, a military coup d'état took place in Greece and a fascist military government ruled the country from 1967 to 1974. It was called the \"Regime of the Colonels\", and was headed by Colonel Georgios Papadopoulos. The official reason given for the coup was that a \"communist conspiracy\" had infiltrated all levels of society. Although there have been persistent rumors about an active support of the coup by the U.S. government, there is no evidence to support such claims. The timing of the coup apparently caught the CIA by surprise.\n\nThe far right political party Golden Dawn (Χρυσή Αυγή - Chrysi Avyi) is generally labelled neo-Nazi, although the group rejects this label. A few Golden Dawn members participated in the Bosnian War in the Greek Volunteer Guard (GVG) and were present in Srebrenica during the Srebrenica massacre. The party has its roots in Papadopoulos' regime.\n\nThere is often collaboration between the state and neo-Nazi elements in Greece. In 2018, during the trial of sixty-nine members of the Golden Dawn party, evidence was presented of the close ties between the party and the Hellenic Police. \n\nGolden Dawn has spoken out in favour of the Assad regime in Syria, and the Strasserist group Black Lily have claimed to have sent mercenaries to Syria to fight alongside the Syrian regime, specifically mentioning their participation in the Battle of al-Qusayr. In the 6 May 2012 legislative election, Golden Dawn received 6.97% of the votes, entering the Greek parliament for the first time with 21 representatives, but when the elected parties were unable to form a coalition government a second election was held in June 2012. Golden Dawn received 6.92% of the votes in the June election and entered the Greek parliament with 18 representatives.\n\nSince 2008, neo-Nazi violence in Greece has targeted immigrants, leftists and anarchist activists. In 2009, certain far right groups announced that Agios Panteleimonas in Athens was off limits to immigrants. Neo-Nazi patrols affiliated with the Golden Dawn party began attacking migrants in this neighborhood. The violence continued escalating through 2010. In 2013, after the murder of anti-fascist rapper Pavlos Fyssas, the number of hate crimes in Greece declined for several years until 2017. Many of the crimes in 2017 have been attributed to other groups like the Crypteia organisation and Combat 18 Hellas.\n\nThe Hungarian Guard is a neo-Nazi paramilitary organization in Hungary. The Guard was modelled on the Arrow Cross Party, which participated in the murder of Jews and Gypsies during the Holocaust. It serves as a paramilitary force for the far right Jobbik party. Gypsy homes have been targeted by night time death squads who throw a molotov cocktail through the window and then open fire on the inhabitants as they flee their burning homes. The Chief of Police in Miskolc has made public statements that \"Hungarian and Gypsy cultures can't mix\".\n\nThe Coordination Forum for Countering Antisemitism reports that on 17 May 2011 in Leek, Groningen, antisemitic graffiti was found at a Jewish school. The graffiti consisted of a swastika and the text \"C18\", or Combat 18, a neo-Nazi organisation active throughout Europe. The number 18 refers to the initials of Adolf Hitler, A and H being the first and eighth letters of the alphabet, respectively.\n\nUnder the Polish Constitution promoting any totalitarian system such as Nazism and fascism (as well as communism) as well as inciting violence and/or racial hatred is illegal. This was further re-enforced in the Polish Penal Code where discrediting any group or persons on national, religious, racial or religious grounds carries a sentence of 3 years.\n\nAlthough several small far-right and anti-semitic organisations exist, most notably NOP and ONR (both of which exist legally), they frequently adhere to Polish nationalism and National Democracy, in which Nazism is generally considered to be against ultra-nationalist principles, and although they are classed as nationalist and fascist movements, they are at the same time considered anti-Nazi. Some of their elements may resemble neo-Nazi features, but these groups frequently dissociate themselves from Nazi elements, claiming that such acts are unpatriotic and they argue that Nazism misappropriated or slightly altered several pre-existing symbols and features, such as distinguishing the Roman salute from the Nazi salute.\n\nSelf-declared neo-Nazi movements in Poland frequently treat Polish culture and traditions with contempt, are anti-Christian and translate various texts from German, meaning they are considered movements favouring Germanisation..\n\nAccording to several reporter investigations the Polish government turns a blind eye to these groups and they are free to spread their ideology, frequently dismissing their existence as conspiracy theories, dismissing acts political provocations, deeming them too insignificant to pose a threat, or attempting to justify or diminish the seriousness of their actions.\n\nThere are a few Russian neo-Nazis that openly admire Adolf Hitler and use the swastika as their symbol. Russian neo-Nazis are characterized by racism, antisemitism, homophobia, Islamophobia and extreme xenophobia towards people from Asia. Their ideology centers on defending Russian national identity against what they perceive as a takeover by minority groups such as Jews, Caucasians, gay people, Central Asians, East Asians, Roma people (gypsies), and Muslims. There is also a widespread gay rights Nazi skinhead subculture with its own Vkontakte group, GASH, and an alleged 1700 members in Moscow alone.\n\nRussian neo-Nazis have made it an explicit goal to take over the country by force, and have put serious effort into preparing for this. Paramilitary organizations operating under the guise of sports clubs have trained their members in squad tactics, hand to hand combat and weapons handling. They have stockpiled and used weapons, often illegally.\n\nSome observers have noted a subjective irony of Russians embracing Nazism, because one of Hitler's ambitions at the start of World War II was the Generalplan Ost (Master Plan East) which envisaged to exterminate, expel, or enslave most or all Slavs from central and eastern Europe (e.g., Russians, Ukrainians, Poles etc.). Russian neo-Nazis deny the authenticity of this plan and instead emphasize the 1939-1941 Nazi-Soviet non-aggression pact. At the end of the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union, over 25 million Soviet citizens had died. In a 2007 news story, \"ABC News\" reported, \"In a country that lost more people defeating the Nazis than any other country, there are now an estimated 50,000 to 70,000 neo-Nazis, half of the world's total.\"\n\nThe dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 caused great economic and social problems, including widespread unemployment and poverty. Several far right paramilitary organizations were able to tap into popular discontent, particularly among marginalized, lesser educated and unemployed youths. Of the three major age groups — youths, adults, and the elderly — youths may have been hit the hardest. The elderly suffered due to inadequate (or unpaid) pensions, but they found effective political representation in the Communist Party, and generally had their concerns addressed through better budget allocations. Adults, although often suffering financially and psychologically due to job losses, were generally able to find new sources of income.\n\nRussian National Unity (RNE), founded in 1990 and led by Alexander Barkashov, has claimed to have members in 250 cities. RNE adopted the swastika as its symbol, and sees itself as the avant-garde of a coming national revolution. It is critical of other major far right organizations, such as the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia (LDPR). Historian Walter Laqueur calls RNE far closer to the Nazi model than the LDPR. RNE publishes several news sheets; one of them, \"Russky poryadok\", claims to have a circulation of 150,000. Full members of RNE are called Soratnik (comrades in arms), receive combat training at locations near Moscow, and many of them work as security officers or armed guards.\n\nOn 15 August 2007, Russian authorities arrested a student for allegedly posting a video on the Internet which appears to show two migrant workers being beheaded in front of a red and black swastika flag. Alexander Verkhovsky, the head of a Moscow-based center that monitors hate crime in Russia, said, \"It looks like this is the real thing. The killing is genuine ... There are similar videos from the Chechen war. But this is the first time the killing appears to have been done intentionally.\"\n\nNeo-Nazi activities in Sweden have previously been limited to white supremacist groups, few of which have a membership over a few hundred members. The main neo-Nazi organization as of 2017 is the Nordic Resistance Movement. Nordic Resistance Movement self-identifies as a National Socialist political movement with a parliamentary branch. They are also active in Norway, Finland, and Denmark.\n\nThe neo-Nazi and white power skinhead scene in Switzerland has seen significant growth in the 1990s and 2000s. It is reflected in the foundation of the Partei National Orientierter Schweizer in 2000, which resulted in an improved organizational structure of the neo-Nazi and white supremacist scene.\n\nApart from neo-fascist Grey Wolves and the Turkish ultranationalist Nationalist Movement Party, there are some neo-Nazi organizations in Turkey such as the Turkish Nazi Party or the National Socialist Party of Turkey, which are mainly based on the Internet.\n\nThough Hindu nationalists distanced themselves from the totalitarian regimes with whom they had previously enjoyed close ties, Nazism and Nazi occultism, in particular, have remained a subject of interest in India throughout the post-War era.\n\nPro-Nazi sentiment is widespread in Pakistan, according to the German magazine \"Der Spiegel\", compounded by the anti-Semitism engendered by the opposition to Israel and support for Palestine general throughout the region. Such attitudes, exemplified by a belief that Hitler was a military genius, are shared by both Muslims and Hindus, and are related to the belief that Pakistanis are Aryans, and therefore would be accepted in Nazi Germany.\n\nNeo-Nazi activity is not common or widespread in Israel, and the few reported activities have all been the work of extremists, who were punished severely. One notable case is that of Patrol 36, a cell in Petah Tikva made up of eight teenage immigrants from the former Soviet Union who had been attacking foreign workers and gay people, and vandalizing synagogues with Nazi images. These neo-Nazis were reported to have operated in cities across Israel, and have been described as being influenced by the rise of neo-Nazism in Europe; mostly influenced by similar movements in Russia and Ukraine, as the rise of the phenomenon is widely credited to immigrants from those two states, the largest sources of emigration to Israel. Widely publicized arrests have led to a call to reform the Law of Return to permit the revocation of Israeli citizenship for – and the subsequent deportation of – neo-Nazis.\n\nFrom 2008, Mongolian neo-Nazi groups have defaced buildings in Ulaanbaatar, smashed Chinese shopkeepers' windows, and killed Chinese immigrants. The neo-Nazi Mongols' targets for violence are Chinese, Koreans, Mongol women who have sex with Chinese men, and LGBT people. They wear Nazi uniforms and revere the Mongol Empire and Genghis Khan. Though Tsagaan Khass leaders say they do not support violence, they are self-proclaimed Nazis. \"Adolf Hitler was someone we respect. He taught us how to preserve national identity,\" said the 41-year-old co-founder, who calls himself Big Brother. \"We don't agree with his extremism and starting the Second World War. We are against all those killings, but we support his ideology. We support nationalism rather than fascism.\" Some have ascribed it to poor historical education.\n\nThe National Socialism Association (NSA) is a neo-Nazi political organisation founded in Taiwan in September 2006 by Hsu Na-chi (), at that time a 22-year-old female political science graduate of Soochow University. The NSA has an explicit stated goal of obtaining the power to govern the state. The Simon Wiesenthal Centre condemned the National Socialism Association on 13 March 2007 for championing the former Nazi dictator and blaming democracy for social unrest in Taiwan.\n\nSeveral neo-Nazi groups were active in Iran, although they are now defunct. Advocates of Nazism continue to exist in Iran and are mainly based on the Internet.\n\nSeveral Brazilian neo-Nazi gangs appeared in the 1990s in Southern and Southeastern Brazil, regions with mostly white people, with their acts gaining more media coverage and public notoriety in the 2010s. Some members of Brazilian neo-Nazi groups have been associated with football hooliganism. Their targets have included African, South American and Asian immigrants; Jews, Muslims, Catholics and atheists; Afro-Brazilians and internal migrants with origins in the northern regions of Brazil (who are mostly brown-skinned or Afro-Brazilian); homeless people, prostitutes; recreational drug users; feminists and—more frequently reported in the media—gay people, bisexuals, and transgender and third-gender people. News of their attacks has played a role in debates about anti-discrimination laws in Brazil (including to some extent hate speech laws) and the issues of sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\nNeo-Nazism in Canada began with the formation of the Canadian Nazi Party in 1965. In the 1970s and 1980s, neo-Nazism continued to spread in the country as organizations including the Western Guard Party and Church of the Creator (later renamed \"Creativity\") promoted white supremacist ideals. Founded in the United States in 1973, Creativity calls for white people to wage racial holy war (Rahowa) against Jews and other perceived enemies.\n\nDon Andrews founded the Nationalist Party of Canada in 1977. The purported goals of the unregistered party are \"the promotion and maintenance of European Heritage and Culture in Canada,\" but the party is known for anti-Semitism and racism. Many influential neo-Nazi Leaders, such as Wolfgang Droege, were affiliated with the party, but many of its members left to join the Heritage Front, which was founded in 1989.\n\nDroege founded the Heritage Front in Toronto at a time when leaders of the white supremacist movement were \"disgruntled about the state of the radical right\" and wanted to unite unorganized groups of white supremacists into an influential and efficient group with common objectives. Plans for the organization began in September 1989, and the formation of the Heritage Front was formally announced a couple of months later in November. In the 1990s, George Burdi of Resistance Records and the band Rahowa popularized the Creativity movement and the white power music scene.\n\nControversy and dissention has left many Canadian neo-Nazi organizations dissolved or weakened.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the National Socialist Movement of Chile (MNSCH) in 1938, notable former members of MNSCH migrated into Partido Agrario Laborista (PAL), obtaining high positions. Not all former MNSCH members joined the PAL; some continued to form parties that followed the MNSCH model until 1952. A new old-school Nazi party was formed in 1964 by school teacher Franz Pfeiffer. Among the activities of this group were the organization of a \"Miss Nazi\" beauty contest and the formation of a Chilean branch of the Ku Klux Klan. The party disbanded in 1970. Pfeiffer attempted to restart it in 1983 in the wake of a wave of protests against the Augusto Pinochet regime.\n\nNicolás Palacios considered the \"Chilean race\" to be a mix of two bellicose master races: the Visigoths of Spain and the Mapuche (Araucanians) of Chile. Palacios traces the origins of the Spanish component of the \"Chilean race\" to the coast of the Baltic Sea, specifically to Götaland in Sweden, one of the supposed homelands of the Goths. Palacios claimed that both the blonde-haired and the bronze-coloured Chilean Mestizo share a \"moral physonomy\" and a masculine psychology. He opposed immigration from Southern Europe, and argued that Mestizos who are derived from south Europeans lack \"cerebral control\" and are a social burden.\n\nSeveral neo-Nazi groups exist in Costa Rica. The first to receive attention was the Costa Rican National Socialist Party, which is now disbanded. Others include Costa Rican National Socialist Youth, Costa Rican National Socialist Alliance, New Social Order, Costa Rican National Socialist Resistance (which is Costa Rica's member of the World Union of National Socialists) and the Hiperborean Spear Society. The groups normally target Jewish-Costa Ricans, Afro-Costa Ricans, Communists, gay people and especially Nicaraguan and Colombian immigrants. The media has discovered the existence of an underground neo-Nazi group inside the police. \n\nAfter a series of fake news spread by several far-right Facebook pages inciting hatred against Nicaraguan migrants, an anti-migration manifestation was organized on 18 August 2018 known as the \"Taken of La Merced\" after Nicaraguan refugees were falsely accused of having “taking” La Merced Park in San Jose, a common gathering of the Nicaraguan community. Although some of the protesters were peaceful, participation of openly neo-Nazi groups and violent hooligans with criminal records caused riots and attacks on Nicaraguans or people suspected of being. The national police Public Force intervened with up to 44 people arrested, 36 of such were Costa Rican and the rest Nicaraguans. Several violent article including Molotov bombs were confiscated and some of the protesters identify themselves with Swastikas and yelled \"¡Fuera nicas!\" (Nicas out!).\n\nThere are several neo-Nazi groups in the United States. The National Socialist Movement (NSM), with about 400 members in 32 states, is currently the largest neo-Nazi organization in the United States. After World War II, new organizations formed with varying degrees of support for Nazi principles. The National States' Rights Party, founded in 1958 by Edward Reed Fields and J. B. Stoner countered racial integration in the Southern United States with Nazi-inspired publications and iconography. The American Nazi Party, founded by George Lincoln Rockwell in 1959, achieved high-profile coverage in the press through its public demonstrations.\n\nThe ideology of James H. Madole, leader of the National Renaissance Party, was influenced by Blavatskian Theosophy. Helena Blavatsky developed a racial theory of evolution, holding that the white race was the \"fifth rootrace\" called the Aryan Race. According to Blavatsky, Aryans had been preceded by Atlanteans who had perished in the flood that sunk the continent Atlantis. The three races that preceded the Atlanteans, in Blavatsky's view, were proto-humans; these were the Lemurians, Hyperboreans and the first Astral rootrace. It was on upon this foundation that Madole based his claims the Aryan Race has been worshiped as \"White Gods\" since time immemorial and proposed a governance structure based on the Hindu Laws of Manu and its hierarchical caste system.\n\nThe First Amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees freedom of speech, which allows political organizations great latitude in expressing Nazi, racist, and anti-Semitic views. A First Amendment landmark case was \"National Socialist Party of America v. Village of Skokie\", in which neo-Nazis threatened to march in a predominantly Jewish suburb of Chicago. The march never took place in Skokie, but the court ruling allowed the neo-Nazis to stage a series of demonstrations in Chicago.\n\nIn May 2018, graduating students at Baraboo High School, in Barabooo, Wisconsin, appeared to perform a Nazi salute in a photograph taken before their junior prom. The image went viral on social media six months later, in November 2018. The school decided not to punish the students due to their First Amendment rights.\n\nThe Institute for Historical Review, formed in 1978, is a Holocaust denial body associated with neo-Nazism.\n\nOrganizations which report upon American neo-Nazi activities include the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center. American neo-Nazis are known to attack and harass minorities.\n\nSeveral groups in South Africa such as Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging and Blanke Bevrydingsbeweging, have often been described as neo-Nazi.\nEugène Terre'Blanche was a prominent South African neo-Nazi leader who was murdered in 2010.\n\nThere were a number of now-defunct Australian neo-Nazi groups, such as the Australian National Socialist Party (ANSP), which was formed in 1962 and merged into the National Socialist Party of Australia (1968-1970s), originally a splinter group, in 1968, and Jack van Tongeren's Australian Nationalist Movement. \n\nCurrent active organisations include Antipodean Resistance, local chapters of the Aryan Nations, and Blood and Honour, as well as prominent individuals such as Blair Cottrell.\n\nIn New Zealand, historical neo-Nazi organisations include Unit 88 and the National Socialist Party of New Zealand. Current active organisations include the local chapter of the Hammerskins, while White Nationalist organisations such as the New Zealand National Front have faced accusations of neo-Nazism.\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "912292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912292", "title": "PMR446", "text": "PMR446\n\nPMR446 (personal mobile radio, 446 MHz) is a part of the UHF radio frequency range that is open without licensing for business and personal use in most countries of the European Union. \n\nPMR446 is ideal for small-site, same-building and line of sight outdoor activities. It is used in both professional and consumer-grade walkie-talkies (similar to those used for FRS/GMRS in the United States and Canada). Depending on surrounding terrain range can vary from a few hundred metres (in a city) to a few kilometres (flat countryside) to many kilometres from high ground. \n\nHistorically, analogue FM is used but a digital voice mode has been available in radios conforming to digital private mobile radio (dPMR446) and digital mobile radio (DMR Tier 1) standards designed by ETSI.\n\nOriginally 8 channels were available in analogue mode but this has now been increased to 16 Channels.\n\nIn addition to PMR446, some countries in the EU have begun to introduce LPD433 (low power device 433 MHz) licence-free short range transceiver radios as part of short range device regulations. These radios give an additional 69 channels (LPD433) which can be used with CTCSS or DCS to improve co-operation on shared channels. These extra channels have been introduced to reduce the burden on the 16 PMR446 channels over shorter distances (<1 km).\n\nThe first steps towards creating licence-free short range radio communications were taken in April 1997 when the European Radio Communications Committee decided on a 446 MHz frequency band to be used for the new radios. In November 1998, ERC Decision (98)25 allocated frequency band 446.0-446.1 MHz for analogue PMR446; another two decisions established licence exemption for PMR446 equipment and free circulation of the PMR446 equipment. The first country which introduced these frequencies for licence-free use was Ireland on 1 April 1998. The United Kingdom introduced PMR446 service in April 1999; since 2003, it has replaced the former short-range business radio (SRBR) service.\n\nIn October 2005, ECC Decision (05)02 added unlicensed band 446.1–446.2 MHz for use by digital DMR/dPMR equipment.\n\nIn July 2015, ECC Decision (15)05 doubled the number of analog channels to 16 by extending analog operation onto the 446.1–446.2 MHz band previously used by digital DMR/dPMR equipment, effective January 2016; from January 2018, the number of digital channels will also be doubled by extending onto the 446.0–446.1 MHz band used by analog FM.\n\nUntil recently, PMR446 radios were handheld transceivers with fixed antennas (see Technical information). In November 2015, Midland Radio announced the release of the GB1 mobile PMR446 radio for vehicular use.\n\nThe range of PMR446, just like any VHF or UHF radio, is dependent on many factors like environment (in-city range is far less than in an open field), height above surrounding obstructions, and, to a lesser extent, weather conditions. The antenna type and location, transmit power and receive sensitivity also affect range. However, with PMR446 most of these variables are fixed at manufacturing to comply with the PMR446 specifications. Most of the time the maximum range that a user in a city can expect is a few hundred metres or less.\n\nRange may be many kilometres, for example between hilltops, or only a few hundred metres, if for example a hill or large metal object is in the transmission path between radios. The best known long distance record is 333 mi (535.8 km) from Blyth in the United Kingdom to Almere, Netherlands. This was the result of enhanced propagation conditions, not a line-of-sight signal.\n\nPMR446 radios use frequencies that in Australia, the U.S., and Canada are allocated to amateur radio operators. PMR446 radios can only be used in those countries by licensed amateur radio operators. The conflicting allocations have been something of a nuisance to amateur operators due to use of the equipment by European tourists.\n\nInstead, the U.S. and Canada uses the FRS system, which provides a similar service on different frequencies, around 462 and 467 MHz. These frequencies are allocated to the emergency services in Europe, notably the fire brigade in the UK, police in Russia and commercial users in Australia. Interference with licensed radio services may result in prosecution.\n\nPMR446-compliant equipment may be used anywhere throughout Europe.\n\nPMR446 covers band 446.0–446.2 MHz. Radios may now have removable antennas in some countries as long as the ERP does not exceed 500 mW, for example in the UK. The general ECC decision however still requires integral antennas and the actual implementation varies between different countries.\n\nAnalogue PMR446 uses 16 FM channels separated by 12.5 kHz from each other. Per regulation, maximum power, like FRS, is 500 mW ERP and equipment must be used on a mobile basis. CTCSS is usually used, with more upmarket models also featuring DCS and/or fixed-carrier voice inversion. Before January 2016, only the lower 8 channels were allowed for analog FM operation.\n\nDigital PMR446 DMR Tier I (TDMA) uses 16 digital voice channels separated by 12.5 kHz from each other with 4-level FSK modulation at 3.6 kbit/s. Before January 2018, only the higher 8 channels were allowed for digital TDMA operation.\n\nDigital PMR446 dPMR (FDMA) uses 32 digital voice channels separated by 6.25 kHz from each other with 4-level FSK modulation at 3.6 kbit/s. Before January 2018, only the upper 16 channels were allowed for digital FDMA operation.\n\nRecently some users have implemented the simplex repeater system, a cheap and easy way to extend the radio range by using extra radios connected to a small repeater controller. This is also known as \"Parrot\", \"ATX-2000\" or just \"Echo Repeater\" after how it sounds repeating every transmission it receives.\n\nPMR446 gateways extend the range of PMR446. These gateways are connected through internet using a client/server VoIP system such as eQSO or the Free Radio Network (FRN). \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "157302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157302", "title": "Pepper spray", "text": "Pepper spray\n\nPepper spray (also known as capsicum spray) is a lachrymatory agent (a chemical compound that irritates the eyes to cause tears, pain, and temporary blindness) used in policing, riot control, crowd control, and self-defense, including defense against dogs and bears. Its inflammatory effects cause the eyes to close, taking away vision. This temporary blindness allows officers to more easily restrain subjects and permits people in danger to use pepper spray in self-defense for an opportunity to escape. Although considered a less-than-lethal agent, it has been deadly in rare cases, and concerns have been raised about a number of deaths where being pepper sprayed may have been a contributing factor.\n\nThe active ingredient in pepper spray is capsaicin, which is a chemical derived from the fruit of plants in the genus \"Capsicum\", including chilis. Extraction of oleoresin capsicum (OC) from peppers requires capsicum to be finely ground, from which capsaicin is then extracted using an organic solvent such as ethanol. The solvent is then evaporated, and the remaining waxlike resin is the oleoresin capsaicin.\n\nAn emulsifier such as propylene glycol is used to suspend OC in water, and pressurized to make it aerosol in pepper spray. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) is used to measure the amount of capsaicin and major capsaicinoids within pepper sprays.\n\nDetermining the strength of different manufacturers of pepper sprays can be confusing and difficult. Statements a company makes about their product strength are not regulated. A method using the capsaicin and related capsaicinoids (CRC) content of the product is unreliable as well, because there are six different types of capsaicinoids, causing different levels of irritation. Manufacturers do not state which particular type of capsaicinoids are used. Personal pepper sprays can range from a low of 0.18% to a high of 3%. Most law enforcement pepper sprays use between 1.3% and 2%. The federal government of the United States has determined that bear attack deterrent sprays must contain at least 1.0% and not more than 2% CRC. CRC does not measure the amount of OC within the formulation. Instead, CRC is the pain-producing component of the OC that produces the burning sensation.\n\nThe federal government of the United States makes no mention of Scoville heat units (SHU) or OC in their requirements, only CRC (only for bear attack deterrent sprays). But, there are countries (Italy, Portugal and Spain - see below, under \"Legality\") and a few states within the US that do mention OC limitations. Some manufacturers may show a very high percentage of OC and, although OC is the active ingredient within the formulation, it does not indicate pepper spray strength. High OC percentage also indicates that a spray has more oil content; which, can possibly use lower grade pepper oils (but, more of it), or lower grade capsaicinoids (within the major CRCs) and also has less ability to soak and penetrate skin than a formula with a less, but higher-quality, pepper oil, because oil has hydrophobic properties.\n\nThe OC percentage measures only the amount of chili oil extract contained in the defense spray, not the strength, pungency or effectiveness of the product. Other companies may show a high SHU. The SHU is a measurement of the base resin compound and not what comes out in the aerosol. The rated irritant effect of the resin may be diluted depending on how much of it is put in the can.\n\nThere are several counterparts of pepper spray developed and legal to possess in some countries:\n\n\nPepper spray is an inflammatory agent. It inflames the mucous membranes in the eyes, nose, throat and lungs. It causes immediate closing of the eyes, difficulty breathing, runny nose, and coughing. The duration of its effects depends on the strength of the spray, but the average full effect lasts from 20 to 90 minutes.\n\nThe \"Journal of Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science\" published a study that concluded that single exposure of the eye to OC is harmless, but repeated exposure can result in long-lasting changes in corneal sensitivity. They found no lasting decrease in visual acuity.\n\nThe European Parliament Scientific and Technological Options Assessment (STOA) published in 1998 \"An Appraisal of Technologies of Political Control\" with extensive information on pepper spray and tear gas. They write:\n\nThe effects of pepper spray are far more severe, including temporary blindness which lasts from 15–30 minutes, a burning sensation of the skin which lasts from 45 to 60 minutes, upper body spasms which force a person to bend forward and uncontrollable coughing making it difficult to breathe or speak for between 3 and 15 minutes.\n\nFor those with asthma, taking other drugs, or subject to restraining techniques that restrict the breathing passages, there is a risk of death. In 1995, the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported at least 61 deaths associated with police use of pepper spray since 1990 in the USA. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) documented 27 people in police custody who died after exposure to pepper spray in California since 1993. However, the ACLU report counts any death occurring within hours of exposure to pepper spray. In all 27 cases, the coroners' report listed other factors as the primary cause of death, though in some cases the use of pepper spray may have been a contributing factor.\n\nThe US Army concluded, in a 1993 Aberdeen Proving Ground study, that pepper spray could cause \"[m]utagenic effects, carcinogenic effects, sensitization, cardiovascular and pulmonary toxicity, neurotoxicity, as well as possible human fatalities. There is a risk in using this product on a large and varied population\". However, the pepper spray was widely approved in the US despite the reservations of the US military scientists after it passed FBI tests in 1991. As of 1999, it was in use by more than 2,000 public safety agencies.\n\nThe head of the FBI's Less-Than-Lethal Weapons Program at the time of the 1991 study, Special Agent Thomas W. W. Ward, was fired by the FBI and was sentenced to two months in prison for receiving payments from a peppergas manufacturer while conducting and authoring the FBI study that eventually approved pepper spray for FBI use. Prosecutors said that from December 1989 through 1990, Ward received about $5,000 a month for a total of $57,500, from Luckey Police Products, a Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based company that was a major producer and supplier of pepper spray. The payments were paid through a Florida company owned by Ward's wife.\n\nPepper spray has been associated with positional asphyxiation of individuals in police custody. There is much debate over the actual \"cause\" of death in these cases. There have been few controlled clinical studies of the human health effects of pepper spray marketed for police use, and those studies are contradictory. Some studies have found no harmful effects beyond the effects described above.\n\nDirect close-range spray can cause more serious eye irritation by attacking the cornea with a concentrated stream of liquid (the so-called \"hydraulic needle\" effect). Some brands have addressed this problem by means of an elliptically cone-shaped spray pattern.\n\nFor individuals not previously exposed to OC effects, the general feelings after being sprayed can be best likened to being \"set alight.\" The initial reaction should the spray be directed at the face, is the completely involuntary closing of the eyes (sometimes described as leading to a disconcerting sensation of the eyelids \"bubbling and boiling\" as the chemical acts on the skin), an instant sensation of the restriction of the airways and the general feeling of sudden and intense, searing pain about the face, nose, and throat. Coughing almost always follows the initial spray.\n\nSubsequent breaths through the nose or mouth lead to ingestion of the chemical, which feeds the feeling of choking. Police are trained to repeatedly instruct targets to \"breathe normally\" if they complain of difficulty, as the shock of the exposure can generate considerable panic as opposed to actual physical symptoms.\n\nCapsaicin is not soluble in water, and even large volumes of water will not wash it off. In general, victims are encouraged to blink vigorously in order to encourage tears, which will help flush the irritant from the eyes.\n\nA study of five often-recommended treatments for skin pain (Maalox, 2% lidocaine gel, baby shampoo, milk, or water) concluded that:\n\n...there was no significant difference in pain relief provided by five different treatment regimens. Time after exposure appeared to be the best predictor for decrease in pain...\n\nTo avoid rubbing the spray into the skin, thereby prolonging the burning sensation, and, in order to not spread the compound to other parts of the body, victims should try to avoid touching affected areas. There are also wipes manufactured for the express purpose of serving to decontaminate someone having received a dose of pepper spray. Many ambulance services and emergency departments use baby shampoo to remove the spray and with generally good effect. Some of the OC and CS will remain in the respiratory system, but a recovery of vision and the coordination of the eyes can be expected within 7 to 15 minutes.\n\nSome \"triple-action\" pepper sprays also contain \"tear gas\" (CS gas), which can be neutralized with sodium metabisulfite (Campden tablets, used in homebrewing), though it is not water-soluble either and must be washed off using the same procedure as for pepper spray.\n\nPepper spray antidotes exist; examples include capsazepine, ruthenium red, and other TRPV1 antagonists.\n\nPepper spray typically comes in canisters, which are often small enough to be carried or concealed in a pocket or purse. Pepper spray can also be purchased concealed in items such as rings. There are also pepper spray projectiles available, which can be fired from a paintball gun. It has been used for years against demonstrators. Many such canisters also contain dyes, either visible or UV-reactive, to mark an attacker's skin or clothing to enhance identification by police.\n\nPepper spray is banned for use in war by Article I.5 of the Chemical Weapons Convention, which bans the use of all riot control agents in warfare whether lethal or less-than-lethal. In the US, when pepper spray is used in the workplace, OSHA requires a pepper spray \"Material Safety Data Sheet\" (MSDS) be available to all employees.\n\n\n\n\nPepper spray designed to be used against people is considered a prohibited weapon in Canada. The definition under regulation states \"any device designed to be used for the purpose of injuring, immobilizing or otherwise incapacitating any person by the discharge therefrom of (a) tear gas, Mace or other gas, or (b) any liquid, spray, powder or other substance that is capable of injuring, immobilizing or otherwise incapacitating any person\" is a prohibited weapon.\n\nOnly law enforcement officers may legally carry or possess pepper spray labeled for use on persons. Any similar canister with the labels reading \"dog spray\" or \"bear spray\" is regulated under the \"Pest Control Products Act\"—while legal to be carried by anyone, it is against the law if its use causes \"a risk of imminent death or serious bodily harm to another person\" or harming the environment and carries a penalty up to a fine of $500,000 and jail time of maximum 3 years. Carrying bear spray in public, without justification, may also lead to charges under the Criminal Code.\n\nIt is a federal offense to carry/ship pepper spray on a commercial airliner or possess it beyond the security metal detectors at the airport. State law and local ordinances regarding possession and use vary across the country.\n\nPepper spray can be legally purchased and carried in all 50 states. Some states regulate the maximum allowed strength of the pepper spray, age restriction, content and use.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn June 2002, West Australian resident Rob Hall was convicted for using a canister of pepper spray to break up an altercation between two guests at his home in Midland. Despite being sentenced to a good behavior bond and granted a spent conviction order, Hall appealed to the Supreme Court, and Justice Christine Wheeler ruled in Hall's favor, thereby legalizing pepper spray in the state on a case-by-case basis for those who are able to show a reasonable excuse.\n\nOn 14 March 2012, an individual \"dressed in black including a black scarf wrapped around his or her face\" entered the public gallery of the New South Wales Legislative Council and launched a paper plane into the air in the form of a petition to Police Minister Mike Gallacher calling on the government to allow civilians to carry capsicum spray.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40879431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40879431", "title": "Philippines v. China", "text": "Philippines v. China\n\nPhilippines v. China (PCA case number 2013–19), also known as the South China Sea Arbitration, was an arbitration case brought by the Republic of the Philippines against the People's Republic of China under Annex VII to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) concerning certain issues in the South China Sea including the legality of China's \"nine-dotted line\" claim.\n\nOn 19 February 2013, China declared that it would not participate in the arbitration.\nOn 7 December 2014, a white paper was published by China to elaborate its position. On 29 October 2015, the arbitral tribunal ruled that it has jurisdiction over the case, taking up seven of the 15 submissions made by the Philippines.\n\nOn 12 July 2016, the tribunal ruled in favor of the Philippines. It clarified that it would not \"...rule on any question of sovereignty over land territory and would not delimit any maritime boundary between the Parties\". The tribunal also ruled that China has \"no historical rights\" based on the \"nine-dash line\" map. China has rejected the ruling, as has Taiwan.\n\nThe dispute has been affected by the fact that, after Japan renounced all claims to the Spratly Islands and other conquered islands and territories in the Treaty of San Francisco and Treaty of Peace with the Republic of China (Taiwan) signed on 8 September 1951, it did not indicate successor states since China was not invited to the treaty talks held in San Francisco. In reaction to that, on 15 August, the Chinese government issued the Declaration on the Draft Peace Treaty with Japan by the US and the UK and on the San Francisco Conference by the then Foreign Minister Zhou Enlai, reitirating China's sovereignty over the archipelagos in the South China Sea, including the Spratly Islands, and protesting about the absence of any provisions in the draft on who shall take over the South China Sea islands following Japan's renouncement of all rights, title and claim to them. It reiterated that \"the Chinese government of the day had taken over those islands\" and that the PRC's rightful sovereignty \"shall remain intact\".\n\nOn 28 April 1952, the United States presided over the signing of the Treaty of Peace between Japan and the Republic of China. Article 2 of the document provided that \"It is recognized that under Article 2 of the Treaty of Peace which Japan signed at the city of San Francisco on 8 September 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the San Francisco Treaty), Japan has renounced all right, title, and claim to Taiwan (Formosa) and Penghu (the Pescadores) as well as the Spratly Islands and the Paracel Islands.\"\n\nThe Philippines bases its claim on its geographical proximity to the Spratly Islands.\n\nIn May 1956, the dispute escalated after Filipino national Tomas Cloma and his followers settled on the islands and declared the territory as \"Freedomland\", now known as Kalayaan for himself and later requested to make the territory a protectorate of the Philippines. Tomas Cloma even stole China (ROC)'s national flag from the Taiping Island. In July 1956, he apologized officially for his act and he surrendered the flag he stole to China's embassy in Manila. On 2 October 1956, he wrote a letter and ensured he would not make further training voyages or landings in the territorial waters of China (ROC).\n\nPhilippine troops were sent to three of the islands in 1968, when the Philippines were under President Ferdinand Marcos. In the 1970s, some countries began to invade and occupy islands and reefs in the Spratlys. The Spratlys were placed under the jurisdiction of the province of Palawan in 1978.\n\nThe People's Republic of China (PRC) claims it is entitled to the Paracel and Spratly Islands because they were seen as integral parts of the Ming dynasty. China and Taiwan have these same territorial claims. The Republic of China (Taiwan) took control of the largest island - Taiping Island - in the group since 1946.\n\nVietnam states that the islands have belonged to it since the 17th century, using historical documents of ownership as evidence. Hanoi began to occupy the westernmost islands during this period.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Malaysia joined the dispute by claiming the islands nearest to it.\n\nBrunei also extended its exclusive economic zone, claiming Louisa Reef.\n\nArticle 298 of Section 3 of Part XV of the Convention provides optional exceptions to applicability of compulsory procedures provided in Section 2. China made declaration in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea in 2006 not to accept any of the procedures provided for in section 2 of Part XV of the Convention. Many countries including the United Kingdom, Australia, Italy, France, Canada, and Spain made similar declarations to reject any of the procedures provided for in sections 2 of Part XV of the Convention with respect to the different categories of disputes.\n\nThe arbitration involved the Philippines and China.\n\nThe Philippines contended that the \"nine-dotted line\" claim by China is invalid because it violates the UNCLOS agreements about exclusive economic zones and territorial seas. It says that because most of the features in the South China Sea, such as most of the Spratly Islands, cannot sustain life, they cannot be given their own continental shelf as defined in the convention.\n\n\nChina refused to participate in the arbitration, stating that several treaties with the Philippines stipulate that bilateral negotiations be used to resolve border disputes. It also accuses the Philippines of violating the voluntary Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea, made in 2002 between ASEAN and China, which also stipulated bilateral negotiations as the means of resolving border and other disputes. China issued a position paper in December 2014 arguing the dispute was not subject to arbitration because it was ultimately a matter of sovereignty, not exploitation rights. Its refusal will not prevent the PCA tribunal from proceeding with the case. After the award ruling, the PRC issued a statement rejecting it as 'null' and having decided not to abide by the arbitral tribunal's decision, said it will \"ignore the ruling\".\n\nThe arbitral tribunal has not invited Taiwan to join the arbitration, and no opinion of Taiwan has been sought. The Philippines claimed that Taiping Island is a rock. In response, President Ma Ying-jeou of the Republic of China on Taiwan rejected the Philippines' claim as \"patently false\". Taiwan invited the Philippines and five arbitrators to visit Taiping Island; the Philippines rejected the invitation, and there was no response from the PCA tribunal.\n\nOn 11 December 2014, Vietnam filed a statement to the tribunal which put forward three points: 1) Vietnam supports the filing of this case by the Philippines, 2) it rejects China's \"nine-dashed line\", and 3) it asks the PCA tribunal to take note of Vietnam's claims on certain islands such as the Paracels.\n\nBrunei sent its own UNCLOS claim through a preliminary submission prior to the arbitration. In May 2009, Malaysia and Vietnam, as well as Vietnam alone, filed claims to the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea with regard to the islands . This was in relation to extending their claimed continental shelves and Exclusive Economic Zones. The People's Republic of China rejected the claims since those violate the \"nine-dotted line\". The Philippines challenged the Malaysian claim stating that the claims overlap with the North Borneo dispute.\n\nIndonesia made a comment on China's claim by saying that the features are rocks and cannot sustain life, effectively calling the Chinese claim invalid. The Philippines echoed Indonesia's claims, further stating that the islands belong to them through geographic proximity.\n\nOn 7 July 2015, case hearings began with the Philippines asking the tribunal to invalidate China's claims. The hearings were also attended by observers from Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam. The case has been compared to \"Nicaragua v. United States\" due to similarities of the parties involved such as that a developing country is challenging a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council in an arbitral tribunal.\n\nOn 29 October 2015, the PCA tribunal ruled that it had the power to hear the case. It agreed to take up seven of the 15 submissions made by Manila, in particular whether Scarborough Shoal and low-tide areas like Mischief Reef can be considered islands. It set aside seven more pointed claims mainly accusing Beijing of acting unlawfully to be considered at the next hearing on the case's merits. It also told Manila to narrow down the scope of its final request that the judges order that \"China shall desist from further unlawful claims and activities.\"\n\nThe arbitral tribunal scheduled the hearing on merits of the case from 24 to 30 November 2015.\n\nOn 29 October 2015, the PCA published the award by the tribunal on Jurisdiction and Admissibility for the case. The tribunal found that it has jurisdiction to consider the following seven Philippines' Submissions. (Each number is the Philippines' Submissions number.) The tribunal reserved consideration of its jurisdiction to rule on Nos. 1, 2, 5, 8, 9, 12, and 14.\n\n\nThe tribunal stated in the award that there are continuing disputes in all of the 15 submissions from the Philippines, but for submissions such as No.3, No.4, No.6 and No.7, no known claims from the Philippines prior to the initiation of this arbitration exist, and that China was not aware of (nor had previously opposed) such claims prior to the initiation of arbitration. The Chinese Society of International Law (CSIL) has stated that the tribunal was trying to hide its incapability to prove that maritime entitlements of the nine features constitute the essence of the disputes.\n\nFor Submissions No.8 to No.14, the tribunal held the view that the lawfulness of China's maritime activities in the South China Sea is not related to sovereignty. CSIL has asserted that the disagreements do concern territorial sovereignty, and constitute no dispute with respect to the claims advanced by the Philippines.\n\nOn 12 July 2016, the Permanent Court of Arbitration published an arbitration award by the tribunal which it states is final and binding as set out in the Convention. Conclusions expressed in the award included the following:\n\n\nThere are countries and multinational bodies that have expressed support or opposition to the Philippines' move to take the South China Sea dispute to the Permanent Court of Arbitration. These entities however may not necessarily support either sides when it comes to the ownership of the disputed area affected by the case.\n\n\nMalaysia and Vietnam, who has territorial claims in the South China Sea, as well as Australia, Indonesia, Japan, Singapore and Thailand sent observers to the proceedings.\n\nIn June 2016, before the tribunal issued its ruling, Malaysia's foreign ministry released what it said was a joint statement of ASEAN expressing \"serious concern\" over land reclamation activities in the South China Sea. Within hours of issuing the statement, Malaysia announced that ASEAN wanted the statement retracted for \"urgent amendments\". Malaysian Foreign Ministry's Secretary General Othman Hashim later claimed that ASEAN's foreign ministers had \"unanimously agreed\" to the statement at a meeting, and that \"Subsequent developments pertaining to the media statement took place after the departure of the ASEAN foreign ministers\".\n\nCambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen later gave a speech condemning reports that Cambodia had had the statement retracted in order to please China, saying, \"Cambodia will not be a puppet of anyone on the South China Sea issue.\" Hun Sen suggested the case was a \"political conspiracy\" and that the ruling \"will not be fair\", but also said that \"Cambodia will just choose to stay neutral on this issue.\" A few days after Hun Sen's speech, the Cambodian People's Party, which Hun Sen heads, issued a statement backing him. According to the statement, “The CPP would like to reject unjust allegations that Cambodia has destroyed the issuing of a joint statement from Asean on the issue of the South China Sea both in Kunming recently and in 2012.”\n\nOn 9 July, shortly before the tribunal issued its verdict, Cambodia's foreign ministry issued a statement reiterating that Cambodia would not join any ASEAN statement on the verdict.\n\nAustralia has not sought to take a public position on the matter other than to state that the ruling of the tribunal should be respected. However Australia has recognized the right of the Philippines to seek arbitration.\n\nThe foreign secretary of New Zealand stated in a speech that New Zealand supports the right to seek arbitration on South China Sea disputes.\n\nEuropean Union encourages all parties to seek peaceful solutions, through dialogue and cooperation, in accordance with international law – in particular with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. A foreign affairs of the EU issued a statement saying \"Whilst not taking a position on claims, the EU is committed to a maritime order based upon the principles of international law, in particular as reflected in the United Nations Convention on the law of the Sea (UNCLOS),\". The EU later stressed that China should respect the ruling from the Hague.\n\nThe Group of 7 (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States as well as a representation from the European Union) made a statement that the bloc should issue a \"clear signal\" to China's overlapping claims.\nEuropean Council President Donald Tusk said on the sidelines of a summit in Ise-Shima that the bloc should take a \"clear and tough stance\" on China's contested maritime claims.\n\nIn August 2015, a junior Minister of State of India, V K Singh, told that territorial disputes should be resolved through peaceful means as was done by India and Bangladesh using the mechanisms provided by the UNCLOS, and parties should abide by the Declaration of the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea. In October 2015, the Foreign Minister of India Sushma Swaraj stated in a joint statement that India supports a peaceful settlement of the dispute. Peaceful means should be used according to the principles of international law, including the UNCLOS. In April 2016, Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj stated in a communique that Russia, India and China agreed to maintain legal order of seas based on international law, including the UNCLOS, and all related disputes should be addressed through negotiations and agreements between the parties concerned.\n\nNATO General Petr Pavel said NATO has \"no legal platform\" to intervene militarily in the South China Sea territorial disputes, and NATO will not interfere in other region's issues. NATO supports any regional solutions based on political and diplomatic negotiations, “rules-based international system” and peaceful means for resolving discord.\n\nIn May 2016, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said that there were more than 40 countries that had expressed their support for China's position. In June 2016, it was reported that nearly 60 countries supported China's position. In July 2016, it was reported that more than 70 countries expressed their support for China's position. China stressed that 7 or 8 countries cannot represent international society.\n\nOne 13 April 2016, a joint press release by Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Fijian Minister for Foreign Affairs Inoke Kubuabola was published. The press release says Fiji supported China's proposition, both countries agree that for sovereignty and maritime rights, parties should be committed to peaceful settlement and optional exceptions of the Convention should be respected. On the next day, Fijian government issued a statement saying the joint press release incorrectly depicted Fijian policy and the Fijian government does not support China's proposition.\n\nIn a statement of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Secretary-General Rashid Olimov on South China Sea issue, all SCO countries agreed and supported China's efforts made to safeguard peace and stability in the South China Sea. Directly concerned states should resolve disputes through negotiation and consultation in accordance with all bilateral treaties and the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea (DOC), the statement said. It urged to respect the right of every sovereign state to decide by itself the dispute resolution methods, and strongly opposed outsiders' intervention into the South China Sea issue, as well as the attempt to internationalize the dispute.\n\nDuring the 2015 East Asia Summit, President Park Geun-hye stated that concerned parties should observe the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and that disputes should be resolved according to international law. \"Korea has consistently stressed that the dispute must be peacefully resolved according to international agreements and code of conduct\" and \"China must guarantee the right of free navigation and flight. The \"Asahi Shimbun\" reports that the United States has made an unofficial request to South Korea to express its position on the arbitration case before the ruling but South Korea reportedly turned down the request saying its difficult make a position prior to the ruling.\n\n"}
{"id": "11873169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11873169", "title": "Pierringer release", "text": "Pierringer release\n\nA Pierringer release or Pierringer Agreement is a type of Settlement Agreement.\nThe origin of the case is \"Pierringer v. Hogan\".\n\nit has the following features:\n\n"}
{"id": "48547608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48547608", "title": "Queensland Public Service", "text": "Queensland Public Service\n\nThe Queensland Public Service provides public services to the people of Queensland, Australia on behalf of the Government of Queensland. Typically these are services that are deemed important by the government and which the government believes will be delivered less efficiently, effectively or cheaply if outsourced to the private marketplace.\n\nThe Queensland Premier selects a subset of the Members of the Queensland Legislative Assembly to be ministers who collectively form the Cabinet. Typically the ministers are members of the same political party as the premier or a closely aligned party. Each minister is assigned one or more portfolios (areas of responsibility), e.g.\nEach portfolio has an associated set of departments and agencies which work to provide a wide range of public services related to that portfolio and the administration of legislation related to that portfolio. The leader of each department is known as the Director-General, who is the chief executive officer for the department and reports to the relevant Minister. The Director-General then employs staff within the department to provide the services. The Directors-General and their staff are generally known collectively as the Queensland Public Service and the personnel are known as public servants.\n\nUnlike Ministers, who are chosen by elections and political processes, Directors-General and their staff are traditionally selected on merit to positions which are independent of the elections and political processes. However, as some Ministers have felt their vision for their portfolios have been frustrated by a Director-General who did not embrace their vision, Directors-General are now sometimes replaced by an incoming Minister who makes their own appointment (often by invitation) of a person who the Minister believe shares their vision. While such Directors-General are technically public servants, they are generally regarded as political appointments and their tenure is often linked to the tenure of the Minister.\n\nA statutory authority is an organisation established under separate legislation to manage a particular aspect of government administration. Most statutory bodies have their own board of management, selected or appointed in different ways. However, all must report to a Minister. Statutory authorities have varying degrees of independence to the government and public service. Some statutory authorities are dependent on government subsidies and grants and hence likely to very highly attuned to the wishes of the Minister and/or Director-General; others are funded in other ways (e.g. providing services) and enjoy greater independence as a consequence. However, as all statutory authorities exist under Queensland legislation, the Minister can assert control by changing the legislation within the Queensland Parliament. Strictly, employees of statutory authorities are not part of the Queensland Public Service, but where their positions are funded by the Queensland Government they are often treated as members of the Queensland Public Service for statistical and budgetary purposes.\n\nAt 30 June 2015, there were 243,163 staff (203,348.50 full-time equivalent) employees in 20 Queensland Government departments and 15 other organisations included for statistical purposes. The three largest government employers are Queensland Health, the Department of Education and Training and the Queensland Police Service.\n\n"}
{"id": "4357197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4357197", "title": "Ribbon of Saint George", "text": "Ribbon of Saint George\n\nThe ribbon of Saint George (also known as Saint George's ribbon and the Georgian ribbon; , \"Georgiyevskaya lentochka\", not to be confused with the Guards Ribbon) is a widely recognized symbol of remembrance of the Soviet people who fought in the Great Patriotic War, WWII. The ribbon consists of a black and orange bicolour pattern, with three black and two orange stripes. It appears as a component of many high military decorations awarded by the Russian Empire, and the current Russian Federation.\n\nThe stripes signify the fire and fog of war. While the symbol is primarily related to WWII, it has recently become more associated with Russian nationalism.\nThe symbol was promoted by the post-soviet Russian state as a way to unify people and remember and respect those that fought.\n\nIt was also promoted in 2005 as a response to the liberal Orange Revolution in Ukraine. That year, Russian state media along with youth organizations launched the campaign ahead of World War II memorial celebrations. The ribbon was associated with units who were awarded the collective Guard battle honours during the conflict, due to the usage of the color scheme in the Great Patriotic War victory medal awarded to all personnel, civilian or military, who aided the war effort.\n\nIn Russia, the ribbon of Saint George is also used by civilians as a patriotic symbol and as a symbol of public support to the Russian government, particularly since 2014. In Ukraine and the Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania), the symbol has become widely associated with Russian nationalist and separatist sentiment.\n\nThe Georgian ribbon emerged as part of the Order of Saint George, established in 1769 as the highest military decoration of Imperial Russia (and re-established in 1998 by Presidential decree signed by then President of Russia Boris Yeltsin). While the Order of Saint George was normally not a collective award, the ribbon was sometimes granted to regiments and units that performed brilliantly during wartime and constituted an integral part of some collective battle honours (such as banners and pennants). When not awarded the full Order, some distinguished officers were granted ceremonial swords, adorned with the Georgian ribbon.\nIn 1806, distinctive Georgian banners were introduced as a further battle honour awarded to meritorious Guards and Leib Guard regiments. The pike on which these flags were mounted was topped by the Cross of Saint George and adorned with 4,44 cm wide Georgian ribbons. It remained the highest collective military award in the Imperial Russian Army until the Revolution in 1917. It is worth noting that the tsarist version was yellow and black, not orange and black like the revived Soviet version.\n\nThe symbolism of the orange and black (or yellow and black) is thought to represent fire and gunpowder of war, or the death and resurrection of Saint George, or the colours of the original Russian imperial coat of arms (black eagle on a golden background). Another theory is that it is, in fact, German in origin, derived from the or and sable stripe patterns found on the heraldry of the House of Ascania, from which Catherine II originated, or the County of Ballenstedt, the house's ancient demesne.\n\nThe title of the Soviet Guards was first introduced on 18 September 1941 in accordance with the decision of the Headquarters of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief (, Stavka, \"Verkhovnogo Glavnokomanduyushchego\") and by the order No. 308 of the People's Commissar of Defense for the distinguished services during the Yelnya Offensive. The 100th, 127th, 153rd and 161st Rifle Divisions were renamed into the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Guards Divisions, respectively. The units and formations nominated for the Soviet Guard title received special Guards banner in accordance with the decision of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR. On 21 May 1942, the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR introduced Guards ranks and Guards badges to be worn of the right side of the chest. Both included the Georgian ribbon pattern. In June 1943, they introduced the Guards Red Banners for the land forces and in February 1944 – for the naval forces. Georgian ribbons adorned the banners exactly as in the 19th century.\n\nEstablished on 8 November 1943, the Order of Glory (\"Orden Slavy\") was an order of the Soviet Union. It was awarded to non-commissioned officers and the rank-and-file of the armed forces, as well as to junior lieutenants of the air force, for bravery in the face of the enemy. The ribbon of the Order was orange with three black stripes – the same as that of the Cross of Saint George.\n\nOne of the most honourable medals in the Soviet Union, the medal \"For the Victory over Germany\" (, \"Za pobedu nad Germaniyey\") also features Saint George stripes. It was awarded to all the soldiers and officers who participated in the Eastern Front campaigns, and was the first award to be universally granted to all the veterans, for the most part, right after the end of the war. Afther war by Jubilee Medal \"Forty Years of Victory in the Great Patriotic War 1941–1945\" 1945–1985.\n\nThe ribbon – along with the Russian tricolored flag and the Russian Navy Ensign – was also used by the anti-Soviet Russian Liberation Army that fought alongside Nazi Germany during World War II.\n\nIn 2005, the 60th anniversary of Victory Day, news agency RIA Novosti and a youth civic organization launched a campaign that called on volunteers to distribute ribbons in the streets ahead of Victory Day. Since then the ribbon is worn by civilians in Russia and other former republics of the Soviet Union as an act of commemoration and remembrance. For the naming of the ribbons the diminutive form is used: георгиевская ленточка (\"georgiyevskaya lentochka\", \"small George ribbon\"). Since 2005 the ribbon is distributed every year all over Russia, and around the world in the preparation for 9 May and is on that day widely to be seen on wrists, lapels, and cars. The motto that goes with it is \"We remember, we are proud!\"\n\nYulia Latynina and other journalists have speculated the Russian government introduced the ribbon as a public relations response to the 2004 Orange Revolution in Ukraine in which demonstrators had adopted orange ribbons as their symbol.\n\nDuring the events of 2014 in Ukraine it was used by Antimaidan activists and pro-Russian population of Ukraine (especially in the south-east regions) as a symbol of pro-Russian and separatist sentiment. The ribbon is also worn by members of the Donbass People's Militia paramilitary group. Euromaidan activists started making derogatory reference to the Ribbon of Saint George as the \"Colorado Ribbon\", as the colors of the ribbon coincide with the colors of a Colorado potato beetle. Over time the term \"Kolorad\" has become an ethnic slur for Russians.\n\nIn April 2014 the veterans of Kirovohrad banned the symbol from Victory Day celebrations \"in order to prevent provocations between the activists of different movements\". Instead, only Ukrainian state symbols would be used. The next month Cherkasy urged veterans and supporters not to wear the ribbon or any other party symbols.\n\nThe Ukrainian government replaced the ribbon with a red-and-black remembrance poppy, like those associated with Remembrance Day in Western Europe in 2014.\n\nOn May 16, 2017 the St. George Ribbon was officially banned in the country, with those who produce or promote the symbol subject to fine or temporary arrest. According to Speaker Andriy Parubiy, the symbol had become a symbol of \"Russia's war and occupation of Ukraine.\"\n\nOn 5 May 2014, the Belarusian Republican Youth Union encouraged activists not to use the ribbon. Other officials reported that the decision not to use the symbol was related to the situation in Ukraine, \"where the ribbon is used by militants and terrorists\". In time for Victory Day 2015, the ribbon's colors were replaced by the red, green and white from the Flag of Belarus. But the President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko arrived on 7 May 2015 in Moscow with a Saint George ribbon combined with the flag of Belarus placed on the lapel of his jacket, thus showing his personal positive attitude to the ribbon.\n\nDuring preparation for the first Victory Day parade in the Canadian city of Winnipeg on 10 May 2014, the Russian embassy distributed Ribbons of Saint George to participants. The move was considered controversial in view of the ongoing events in Ukraine with the Ukrainian Canadian Congress calling the ribbon a \"symbol of terrorism.\"\n\nSome parties made statements intended to discourage the use of the ribbon in Kazakhstan in 2014 for Victory Day celebrations, suggesting that red (of the Red Army) and turquoise (the national color of Kazakhstan) should be used instead. However, no official authority issued any comments.\n\nThe government of Latvia proposed the ban on the use of any Ribbons of Saint George by law in May 2014; earlier, Latvia imposed a ban on the use of all Soviet symbols at public events.\n\nThe ban on similar grounds to that in Latvia has been discussed.\n\nThe ribbon has been adopted by Russian nationalist and government loyalist groups. During the 2011–13 Russian protests, protestors demonstrating against electoral fraud in the 2011 elections carried white ribbons. Supporters of Putin would counter-protest wearing Saint George's ribbon. On 28 April 2016, a group of people from the National Freedom Movement wearing St. George ribbons attacked a school competition organized by the Memorial society, pouring toxic solution of Brilliant Green to writer Ludmila Ulitskaya and other guests and assaulting a journalist. The Russian ultranationalist group National Liberation Movement (NOD) has adopted the orange-black flag as its symbol.\n\n"}
{"id": "707853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=707853", "title": "Separate Representation of Voters Act, 1951", "text": "Separate Representation of Voters Act, 1951\n\nThe Separate Representation of Voters Act No. 46 was introduced in South Africa on 18 June 1951. Part of the legislation during the apartheid era, the National Party introduced it to enforce racial segregation, and was part of a deliberate process to remove all non-white people from the voters' roll and revoke the Cape Qualified Franchise system. \n\nThis act was declared invalid by the Supreme Court when challenged in the case of \"Harris v Minister of the Interior 1952(2) SA 428(AD)\"; this gave rise to the Coloured vote constitutional crisis. The government, however, was able to circumvent the court's decision by increasing the number of Appellate Division judges from five to eleven, and increasing the size of the Senate from forty-eight to eighty-nine. These changes enabled the government to successfully introduce the South Africa Act Amendment Act No 9 of 2 March 1956, effectively overturning the Supreme Court's decision and revalidating the act. This amendment was repealed by the Republic of South Africa Constitution Act 32 of 1961. This case was one of many where South Africa's parliamentary sovereignty enabled the passing of laws without being subject to judicial review on substantive grounds. The judiciary was bound therefore leaving the legislature and executive to act independently from the third arm of government. Arguably this silencing of the judiciary allowed the Apartheid state to become further entrenched in the legal sphere of South Africa.\n\nThe act as a whole was repealed by section 4 of the Separate Representation of Voters Amendment Act No 50 of 27 March 1968. This bill introduced the \"Coloured Persons Representative Council\", consisting of forty elected members and twenty nominated members. This council could make laws on finance, local government, education, community welfare and pensions, rural settlements and agriculture which affected coloured people. A bill could only be introduced when approved by the Minister of Coloured Relations, as well as requiring the approval of the white Cabinet. This act was repealed in 1983 by section 101(1) of the Republic of South Africa Constitution Act No 110.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22255742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22255742", "title": "Social Security number", "text": "Social Security number\n\nIn the United States, a Social Security number (SSN) is a nine-digit number issued to U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and temporary (working) residents under section 205(c)(2) of the Social Security Act, codified as . The number is issued to an individual by the Social Security Administration, an independent agency of the United States government. Although its primary purpose is to track individuals for Social Security purposes, the Social Security number has become a \"de facto\" national identification number for taxation and other purposes.\n\nA Social Security number may be obtained by applying on Form SS-5, application for A Social Security Number Card.\n\nSocial Security numbers were first issued by the Social Security Administration in November 1935 as part of the New Deal Social Security program. Within three months, 25 million numbers were issued.\n\nOn November 24, 1936, 1,074 of the nation's 45,000 post offices were designated \"typing centers\" to type up Social Security cards that were then sent to Washington, D.C. On December 1, 1936, as part of the publicity campaign for the new program, Joseph L. Fay of the Social Security Administration selected a record from the top of the first stack of 1,000 records and announced that the first Social Security number in history was assigned to John David Sweeney, Jr., of New Rochelle, New York.\n\nBefore 1986, people often did not obtain a Social Security number until the age of about 14, since the numbers were used for income tracking purposes, and those under that age seldom had substantial income The Tax Reform Act of 1986 required parents to list Social Security numbers for each dependent over the age of 5 for whom the parent wanted to claim a tax deduction. Before this act, parents claiming tax deductions were simply trusted not to lie about the number of children they supported. During the first year of the Tax Reform Act, this anti-fraud change resulted in seven million fewer minor dependents being claimed. The disappearance of these dependents is believed to have involved either children who never existed or tax deductions improperly claimed by non-custodial parents. In 1988, the threshold was lowered to 2 years old, and in 1990, the threshold was lowered yet again to 1 year old. Today, an SSN is required regardless of the child's age to receive an exemption. Since then, parents have often applied for Social Security numbers for their children soon after birth; today, it can be done on the application for a birth certificate.\n\nThe original purpose of this number was to track individuals' accounts within the Social Security program. It has since come to be used as an identifier for individuals within the United States, although rare errors occur where duplicates do exist. As numbers are now assigned by the central issuing office of the SSA, it is unlikely that duplication will ever occur again. A few duplications did occur when prenumbered cards were sent out to regional SSA offices and (originally) Post Offices.\n\nEmployee, patient, student, and credit records are sometimes indexed by Social Security number.\n\nThe U.S. Armed Forces has used the Social Security number as an identification number for Army and Air Force personnel since July 1, 1969, the Navy and Marine Corps for their personnel since January 1, 1972, and the Coast Guard for their personnel since October 1, 1974. Previously, the United States military used a much more complicated system of service numbers that varied by service.\n\nBeginning in June 2011, DOD began removing the Social Security number from military identification cards. It is replaced by a unique DOD identification number, formerly known as the EDIPI.\n\nSocial Security was originally a universal tax, but when Medicare was passed in 1965, objecting religious groups in existence prior to 1951 were allowed to opt out of the system. Because of this, not every American is part of the Social Security program, and not everyone has a number. However, a social security number is required for parents to claim their children as dependents for federal income tax purposes, and the Internal Revenue Service requires all corporations to obtain SSNs (or alternative identifying numbers) from their employees, as described below. The Old Order Amish have fought to prevent universal Social Security by overturning rules such as a requirement to provide a Social Security number for a hunting license.\n\nSocial Security cards printed from January 1946 until January 1972 expressly stated that people should not use the number and card for identification. Since nearly everyone in the United States now has an SSN, it became convenient to use it anyway and the message was removed.\n\nSince then, Social Security numbers have become \"de facto\" national identification numbers. Although some people do not have an SSN assigned to them, it is becoming increasingly difficult to engage in legitimate financial activities such as applying for a loan or a bank account without one. While the government cannot require an individual to disclose their SSN without a legal basis, companies may refuse to provide service to an individual who does not provide an SSN. The card on which an SSN is issued is still not suitable for primary identification as it has no photograph, no physical description, and no birth date. All it does is confirm that a particular number has been issued to a particular name. Instead, a driver's license or state ID card is used as an identification for adults.\n\nInternal Revenue Code section 6109(d) provides: \"The social security account number issued to an individual for purposes of section 205(c)(2)(A) of the Social Security Act [codified as ] shall, except as shall otherwise be specified under regulations of the Secretary [of the Treasury or his delegate], be used as the identifying number for such individual for purposes of this title [the Internal Revenue Code, title 26 of the United States Code].\"\n\nThe Internal Revenue Code also provides, when required by regulations prescribed by the Secretary [of the Treasury or his delegate]:\n\nAccording to U.S. Treasury regulations, any person who, after October 31, 1962, works as an employee for wages subject to Social Security taxes, Medicare taxes, or U.S. federal income tax withholdings is required to apply for \"an account number\" using \"Form SS-5.\"\n\nA taxpayer who is not eligible to have a Social Security number must obtain an alternative Taxpayer Identification Number.\n\nThree different types of Social Security cards are issued. The most common type contains the cardholder's name and number. Such cards are issued to U.S. citizens and U.S. permanent residents. There are also two restricted types of Social Security cards:\n\nIn 2004 Congress passed The Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act; parts of which mandated that the Social Security Administration redesign the Social Security Number (SSN) Card to prevent forgery. From April 2006 through August 2007, Social Security Administration (SSA) and Government Printing Office (GPO) employees were assigned to redesign the Social Security Number Card to the specifications of the Interagency Task Force created by the Commissioner of Social Security in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security.\n\nThe new SSN card design utilizes both covert and overt security features created by the SSA and GPO design teams.\n\nMany citizens and privacy advocates are concerned about the disclosure and processing of Social Security numbers. Furthermore, researchers at Carnegie Mellon University have demonstrated an algorithm that uses publicly available personal information to reconstruct a given SSN.\n\nThe SSN is frequently used by those involved in identity theft, since it is interconnected with many other forms of identification, and because people asking for it treat it as an authenticator. Financial institutions generally require an SSN to set up bank accounts, credit cards, and loans—partly because they assume that no one except the person it was issued to knows it.\n\nExacerbating the problem of using the Social Security number as an identifier is the fact that the Social Security card contains no biometric identifiers of any sort, making it essentially impossible to tell whether a person using a certain SSN truly belongs to someone without relying on other documentation (which may itself have been falsely procured through use of the fraudulent SSN). Congress has proposed federal laws that restrict the use of SSNs for identification and bans their use for a number of commercial purposes—e.g., rental applications.\n\nThe Internal Revenue Service (IRS) offers alternatives to SSNs in some places where providing untrusted parties with identification numbers is essential. Tax return preparers must obtain and use a Preparer Tax Identification Number (PTIN) to include on their client's tax returns (as part of signature requirements). Day care services have tax benefits, and even a sole proprietor should give parents an EIN (employer identification number) to use on their tax return.\n\nThe Social Security Administration has suggested that, if asked to provide his or her Social Security number, a citizen should ask which law requires its use. In accordance with §7213 of the 9/11 Commission Implementation Act of 2004 and , the number of replacement Social Security cards per person is generally limited to three per calendar year and ten in a lifetime.\n\nIdentity confusion has also occurred because of the use of local Social Security numbers by the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau, whose numbers overlap with those of residents of New Hampshire and Maine.\n\nA person can request a new Social Security number, but only under certain conditions;\n\n\nFor all of these conditions, credible third-party evidence such as a restraining order or police report, is required.\n\nThe Social Security number is a nine-digit number in the format \"AAA-GG-SSSS\". The number is divided into three parts: the first three digits, known as the \"area number\" because they were formerly assigned by geographical region; the middle two digits, known as the \"group number\"; and the final four digits, known as the \"serial number.\"\n\nOn June 25, 2011, the SSA changed the SSN assignment process to \"SSN randomization\". SSN randomization affected the SSN assignment process in the following ways:\n\nBecause Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers (ITINs) are issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), they were not affected by this SSA change.\n\nPrior to the 2011 randomization process, the first three digits or area number were assigned by geographical region. Prior to 1973, cards were issued in local Social Security offices around the country and the area number represented the office code where the card was issued. This did not necessarily have to be in the area where the applicant lived, since a person could apply for their card in any Social Security office. Beginning in 1973, when the SSA began assigning SSNs and issuing cards centrally from Baltimore, the area number was assigned based on the ZIP Code in the mailing address provided on the application for the original Social Security card. The applicant's mailing address did not have to be the same as their place of residence. Thus, the area number did not necessarily represent the state of residence of the applicant regardless of whether the card was issued prior to, or after, 1973.\n\nGenerally, numbers were assigned beginning in the northeast and moving south and westward, so that people applying from addresses on the east coast had the lowest numbers and those on the west coast had the highest numbers. As the areas assigned to a locality were exhausted, new areas from the pool were assigned, so some states had noncontiguous groups of numbers.\n\nThe middle two digits or \"group number\" range from 01 to 99. Even before SSN randomization, the group numbers were not assigned consecutively within an area. Instead, for administrative reasons, group numbers were issued in the following order:\n\n\nAs an example, group number 98 would be issued before 11.\n\nThe last four digits are \"serial numbers\". Before SSN randomization took effect, they represented a straight numerical sequence of digits from 0001 to 9999 within the group.\n\nPrior to June 25, 2011, a valid SSN could not have an area number between 734 and 749, or above 772, the highest area number the Social Security Administration had allocated. Effective June 25, 2011, the SSA assigns SSNs randomly and allows for the assignment of area numbers between 734 and 749 and above 772 through the 800s. This should not be confused with Tax Identification Numbers (TINs), which include additional area numbers.\n\nSome special numbers are never allocated:\n\nUntil 2011, the SSA published the last group number used for each area number. Since group numbers were allocated in a regular pattern, it was possible to identify an unissued SSN that contained an invalid group number. Now numbers are assigned randomly, and fraudulent SSNs are not easily detectable with publicly available information. Many online services, however, provide SSN validation.\n\nUnlike many similar numbers, no check digit is included.\n\nThe Social Security Administration does not reuse Social Security numbers. It has issued over 450 million since the start of the program, and at a use rate of about 5.5 million per year. It says it has enough to last several generations without reuse or changing the number of digits. However, there have been instances where multiple individuals have been inadvertently assigned the same Social Security number.\n\nSome SSNs used in advertising have rendered those numbers invalid. One famous instance of this occurred in 1938 when the E. H. Ferree Company in Lockport, New York, decided to promote its product by showing how a Social Security card would fit into its wallets. A sample card, used for display purposes, was placed in each wallet, which was sold by Woolworth and other department stores across the country; the wallet manufacturer's vice president and treasurer Douglas Patterson used the actual SSN of his secretary, Hilda Schrader Whitcher.\n\nEven though the card was printed in red (the real card is printed in blue) and had \"Specimen\" printed across the front, many people used Whitcher's SSN as their own. The Social Security Administration's account of the incident also claims that the fake card was half the size of a real card, despite a miniature card's being useless for its purpose and despite Whitcher's holding two cards of apparently identical size in the accompanying photograph. Over time, the number that appeared (078-05-1120) has been claimed by a total of over 40,000 people as their own. The SSA initiated an advertising campaign stating that it was incorrect to use the number (Hilda Whitcher was issued a new SSN). However, the number was found to be in use by 12 individuals as late as 1977.\n\nMore recently, Todd Davis distributed his SSN in advertisements for his company's LifeLock identity theft protection service, which allowed his identity to be stolen over a dozen times.\n\nList showing the geographical location of the first three digits of the social security numbers assigned in the United States and its territories from 1973 until June 25 2011. Repeated numbers indicate that they've been transferred to another location or they're shared by more than one location.\n\nThe above table is only valid for SSN issued before June 2011. On June 25, 2011, the SSA changed the SSN assignment process to \"SSN randomization\". SSN randomization affects the SSN assignment process. Among its changes, it eliminates the geographical significance of the first three digits of the SSN, previously referred to as the Area Number, by no longer allocating the Area Numbers for assignment to individuals in specific states. The table above is based on out-of-date information. Numbers in the range of 650-699 most certainly have been issued (see related comment on the Talk page).\n\n"}
{"id": "38947738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38947738", "title": "Stone's Justices' Manual", "text": "Stone's Justices' Manual\n\nStone's Justices' Manual is a book published by LexisNexis Butterworths. It is \"the standard work on summary procedure\". It displaced Burn's \"Justices of the Peace\" as the standard work on that subject from 1850 onwards. By 1914, it was old, well-established and formidably large.\n\n\"Stone's Justices' Manual\" is published in June of every year, with an updating supplement published in October. An accompanying CD-ROM contains the full text plus additional resources such as the All England Law Reports. \n\n\"Stone's Justices' Manual\" covers civil procedure, criminal law and litigation and provides comprehensive coverage of all new and amended legislation affecting the magistrates' courts. It also includes hundreds of new cases that set precedents or clarify particular principles of law.\n\n"}
{"id": "58798434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58798434", "title": "Tariff engineering", "text": "Tariff engineering\n\nTariff engineering is a loophole whereby an importer pays a lower tariff by \"adapting the item [being imported] so that [the importer doesn't] have to pay any levy\". The began following the 1881 US Supreme Court case of \"Merrit v. Walsh\", which dealt with the classification of imported sugar. An example of tariff engineering is the Chicken tax, related to the importation of trucks into the United States.\n"}
{"id": "4308598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4308598", "title": "Terrorism financing", "text": "Terrorism financing\n\nTerrorism financing refers to activities that provide financing or financial support to individual terrorists or non-state actors. A government that maintains a list of terrorist organizations normally will also pass laws to prevent money laundering being used to finance those organizations.\n\nLaws against money laundering and terror financing are used around the world. In the United States, the Patriot Act was passed after the September 11 attacks, giving the government anti-money laundering powers to monitor financial institutions. The Patriot Act has generated a great deal of controversy in the United States since its enactment. The United States has also collaborated with the United Nations and other countries to create the Terrorist Finance Tracking Program.\n\nLaws created attempted to thwart the financing of terrorism (CFT) and money laundering. Initially the focus of CFT efforts was on non-profit organizations, unregistered money services businesses (MSBs) (including so called underground banking or ‘Hawalas’) and the criminalisation of the act itself. The Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF) made nine special recommendations for CFT (first eight then a year later added a ninth). These nine recommendations have become the global standard for CFT and their effectiveness is assessed almost always in conjunction with anti-money laundering.\n\nThe FATF Blacklist (the NCCT list) mechanism was used to coerce countries to bring about change.\n\nOften linked in legislation and regulation, terrorism financing and money laundering are conceptual opposites. Money laundering is the process where cash raised from criminal activities is made to look legitimate for re-integration into the financial system, whereas terrorism financing cares little about the source of the funds, but it is what the funds are to be used for that defines its scope.\n\nAn in-depth study of the symbiotic relationship between organised crime and terrorist organizations detected within the United States of America and other areas of the world referred to as crime-terror nexus points has been published in the forensic literature.\nThe Perri, Lichtenwald and MacKenzie article emphasizes the importance of multi-agency working groups and the tools that can be used to identify, infiltrate, and dismantle organizations operating along the crime-terror nexus points.\n\nTerrorists use low value but high volume fraud activity to fund their operations. Paramilitary groups in Northern Ireland are using legitimate businesses such as hotels, pubs and taxi operators to launder money and fund political activities. Even beyond Ireland, terrorists are buying out/controlling front-end businesses especially cash-intensive businesses including in some cases money services businesses to move monies. Bulk cash smuggling and placement through cash-intensive businesses is one typology. They are now also moving monies through the new online payment systems. They also use trade linked schemes to launder monies. Nonetheless, the older systems have not given way. Terrorists also continue to move monies through MSBs/Hawalas, and through international ATM transactions. Charities also continue to be used in countries where controls are not so stringent.\n\nOperation Green Quest, a US multi-agency task force established in October 2001 with the official purpose of countering terrorism financing considers the following patterns of activity as indicators of the collection and movement of funds that could be associated with terrorism financing:\n\n\nIt would be difficult to determine by such activity alone whether the particular act was related to terrorism or to organized crime. For this reason, these activities must be examined in context with other factors in order to determine a terrorism financing connection. Simple transactions can be found to be suspect and money laundering derived from terrorism will typically involve instances in which simple operations had been performed (retail foreign exchange operations, international transfer of funds) revealing links with other countries including FATF blacklisted countries. Some of the customers may have police records, particularly for trafficking in narcotics and weapons and may be linked with foreign terrorist groups. The funds may have moved through a state sponsor of terrorism or a country where there is a terrorism problem. A link with a Politically exposed person (PEP) may ultimately link up to a terrorism financing transaction. A charity may be a link in the transaction. Accounts (especially student) that only receive periodic deposits withdrawn via ATM over two months and are dormant at other periods could indicate that they are becoming active to prepare for an attack.\n\nIn July 2010, Germany outlawed the Internationale Humanitäre Hilfsorganisation (IHH), saying it has used donations to support projects in Gaza that are related to Hamas, which is considered by the European Union to be a terrorist organization, while presenting their activities to donors as humanitarian help. German Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere said, \"Donations to so-called social welfare groups belonging to Hamas, such as the millions given by IHH, actually support the terror organization Hamas as a whole.\" \n\nIn 2009, an investigation carried out by the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC) and other agencies, determined that funds were being sent from Australia for use by the Somalia-based terrorist group, al-Shabaab. Money was remitted, with false names used to obscure the money trail. This investigation lead to the ultimate arrest of the suspects on charges of conspiring to commit a terrorist attack on an Australian army base. \n\nIn 2014, Australian authorities feared that money being transferred from Australia could be used for terrorism in Somalia. In 2015 Australian banks ceased providing money-transfer facilities to Somalia.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5184317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5184317", "title": "Uninsured motorist clause", "text": "Uninsured motorist clause\n\nAn uninsured motorist clause is a provision commonly found in United States automobile insurance policies that provides for a driver to receive damages for any injury he or she receives from an uninsured, negligent driver. The owner of the policy pays a premium to the insurance company to include this clause. Although not exclusive, this coverage is typically added to an automobile insurance policy. In the event of a qualifying accident, the insurance company pays the difference between what the uninsured driver can pay and what the injured driver would be entitled to as if the uninsured motorist had proper insurance.\n\nThis type of coverage is meant to prevent the possibility that a motorist will have to pay for medical expenses and property damage to his vehicle as a result of the accident with the underinsured at-fault motorist. The ramifications related to being hit by an underinsured motorist vary by individual state laws.\n\nIt is mandatory for the insurance carrier to provide such coverage in some states, such as Pennsylvania, Illinois, Maryland, and New York.\n\nThere are three types of uninsured motorists defined under the uninsured motorist clause: \n\nA few states require physical contact for uninsured claims. If contact is required, it can be any kind of contact, such as that between two cars, but can also consist of a vehicle contacting the leg of a motorcyclist or a motorcycle tire.\n\nUninsured Motorist Bodily Injury Coverage covers a victim's medical expenses, lost wages, and other injury related expenses in an instance where the other driver is not insured. This coverage applies only if the other party is found to be at fault for the incident. Depending on the state, the insurance company may or may not require the victim to identify the other vehicle/driver. Many states will cover a hit and run incident.\n\nUnderinsured Motorist Bodily Injury Coverage protects a driver by financially compensating him for his injury in the event that he is injured in an accident by someone else who negligently caused his injuries when the driver or owner has liability coverage for his or her vehicle that is less than the amount of the victim's liability coverage. Underinsured coverage may also be referred to as an underinsured motorist clause or endorsement or SUM, which is an abbreviation for Supplementary Underinsured Motorist coverage.\n\nMost states require a victim to sue the uninsured motorist (or a fictitious John Doe hit and run driver when litigating the second category of uninsured motorist claim) for his injuries in order to prevail on a breach of contract action against the insurance carrier. Some states, such as Virginia, require that the victim actually obtain a judgment against the uninsured motorist (while serving the uninsured motorist carrier in the lawsuit so that the carrier can defend the suit) and then demand payment from the uninsured motorist carrier prior to suing the carrier for any breach of an uninsured motorist provision. Normally there is no need to sue the carrier in such states as Virginia unless there is a dispute as to coverage. Liability is rarely an issue in cases against John Doe defendants and in any regard, must be litigated in the first suit against the John Doe, if at all. The insurance company will ordinarily pay the judgment, up to the policy limits, once a court determines that an uninsured motorist was at fault. Some states' laws also allow additional insurance coverage to the insured policyholder through policy stacking provisions, whereby a claim may be made against multiple uninsured motorist policies.\n"}
