{"id": "24632206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24632206", "title": "Anne Turner (murderer)", "text": "Anne Turner (murderer)\n\nMrs Anne Turner (5 January 1576 – 15 November 1615), aka Mistress Anne Turner or Mrs. Anne Turner, was the widow of a respectable London doctor who was hanged at Tyburn for her role in the famous 1613 poisoning of Sir Thomas Overbury referenced in the plays \"A New Trick to Cheat the Devil\", \"The Widow\", \"The World Tossed at Tennis\" and \"The City Nightcap\".\n\nShe was born Anne Norton on 5 January 1576, one of ten children to Thomas and Margaret Norton of Hinxton, Cambridgeshire. Later, as her reputation came in question, rumours spread that she was an illegitimate child of the disreputable London apothecary and astrologer named Simon Forman. Also considered to be a \"beautiful\" woman, she married a physician, Dr. George Turner, who died in 1610, and became the mistress of Sir Arthur Mainwaring. At some point she had become a \"waiting woman\" or \"companion\" of Frances Howard.\n\nIt seems that at this time that Howard had fallen in love with the king's favourite, Robert Carr and they soon began an exchange of romantic correspondence. Unfortunately for Howard she was married at the time to the Earl of Essex and at his instance was obliged to travel back with him after his return from France to his house at Chartley in Staffordshire. There she persisted in a stubborn refusal to sleep with her husband, thereby hoping no doubt to have the marriage annulled on the grounds on non-consummation.\n\nWhilst Carr may have been satisfied with this state of affairs, Frances wished to marry him. There was one person who stood in her way, Carr's mentor, Sir Thomas Overbury who disapproved of the match. Fortunately for Howard help was at hand both in her uncle, Sir Henry Howard, 1st Earl of Northampton and in friend and ally Mrs Turner.\n\nAfter Northampton had persuaded the king to have Overbury thrown in the Tower of London on trumped up charges, it was now Frances Howard's wish that he be murdered.\n\nAlthough a widow and outwardly respectable, Mrs Turner was in fact an independent businesswoman who ran her own \"houses of ill-repute\" at Paternoster Row and Hammersmith, where couples could indulge themselves together in secrecy. She was also running a lucrative monopoly in the supply of a saffron based starch which provided the yellow colouring to collars and ruffs which was then in vogue. Mrs Turner was therefore well connected with both the court and the less savoury sections of London society.\n\nShe was thus able to put Howard in touch with Forman to provide love potions for Carr and a range of poisons, including arsenic, cantharides. and sublimate of mercury for Overbury from another apothecary named Franklin. These poisons were then included in a selection of \"tarts\" and \"jellies\" which were delivered to gaoler Richard Weston. They were then left with the Lieutenant of the Tower, Sir Gervase Helwys, before they were eaten by Overbury, who died as a result in September 1613.\n\nA few weeks later Howard's marriage was annulled and she was able to marry Carr.\n\nTwo years later, after Overbury's murder came to light, Turner, Helwys and all the other accomplices in the crime were put on trial, the hearings being overseen by Sir Edward Coke, Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench, and the king's Attorney General, Sir Francis Bacon.\n\nWith overwhelming evidence mounted against her, Turner confessed to her role in the crime. In passing sentence Chief Justice Coke referred to her as \"a whore, a bawd, a sorcerer, a witch, a papist, a felon and a murderer\". He also ordered her to be hanged in the fashionable starched ruffles she had invented \"so that the same might end in shame and detestation.\"\n\nTurner was hanged at Tyburn on 15 November 1615. Her hangman, not by coincidence, also wore \"bands and cuffs of the same colour.\" Yellow starch then went out of fashion.\n\nTurner reportedly left behind three illegitimate children she had with Mainwaring.\n\nAnne Turner is a character in Thomas Costain's 1942 historical novel \"For My Great Folly\".\n\nAnne Turner is mentioned in Nathaniel Hawthorne's \"The Scarlet Letter\" as an \"especial friend\" of Mistress Hibbins, a suspected witch. The novel mentions the yellow ruffs, which Turner had supposedly taught Hibbins how to make.\n\nAnne Turner is a character in the novel \"The King's Minion\" (also known as \"The Minion\") by Rafael Sabatini, which is about the Overbury murder.\n"}
{"id": "33478607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33478607", "title": "Artemis and the Stag", "text": "Artemis and the Stag\n\nArtemis and the Stag is an early Roman Imperial or Hellenistic bronze sculpture of the ancient Greek goddess Artemis. In June 2007 the Albright-Knox Art Gallery placed the statue into auction; it fetched $28.6 million, the highest sale price of any sculpture at the time.\n\nThe statue depicts Artemis, the Greek goddess of hunting and wild animals amongst other things. She stands on a simple plinth in a pose that suggests she has just released an arrow from her bow. At some point in its history, the bow was separated from the sculpture and was lost. The goddess's hair is wavy and parted, gathered at the back in a chignon. She wears a short chiton that folds at the waist and billows outwards and is partly covered by a himation. On her feet are laced sandals, and a stag stands alongside her. It is thought that the original sculpture may have included a jumping dog to the right of the goddess.\n\nArtemis stands at 36 1/4 inches atop a base of 12 1/2 inches. The stag is 16 3/4 inches. The sculpture is made of bronze and is believed to have been made some time between the 1st century BC and the 1st century AD. It was originally excavated in the 1920s from a construction site in Rome and has since changed hands several times before finding a home at the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, New York.\n\nThe sculpture has been described as \"one of the most beautiful works of art surviving from the classical era\". It is highly regarded for its excellent state of preservation, despite the missing bow, and its fine detail, particularly in the face of Artemis.\n\nIn November 2006, the Albright-Knox Gallery announced its intention to deaccession \"Artemis and the Stag\" from its collection. The statue was much-beloved by the public and had been part of the permanent collection since 1953. Director Louis Grachos defined \"Artemis and the Stag\" along with about 200 other works of art from the museum's permanent collection as falling outside the institution's historical \"core mission\" of \"acquiring and exhibiting art of the present.\" The decision to deaccession was made by a vote of the museum's Board of Directors, was voted on and ratified by the entire membership (at a meeting forced by opponents of the sale), and followed the guidelines of the American Alliance of Museums, according to Albright-Knox officials. Nevertheless, announcement of the sale set off a firestorm of dissent.\n\nThe controversial decision to sell was made in secret, and was not revealed to the public until the items had been packed and crated and were already at Sotheby's, the auction house which brokered the deal. Lauren Gioia, daughter of prominent Albright-Knox board member Robert Gioia, was employed at the auction house at the time of the sale, a glaring conflict of interest that was not disclosed when the sale was announced. The judge who threw out a lawsuit seeking to block the sale, Diane Devlin, had been appointed city court judge by former Buffalo Mayor Anthony Masiello. The auction house was represented in the deaccession suit by Terrence M. Connors, an attorney who was Masiello's chief of staff at the time Devlin was appointed to the court.\n\nThe sale also raised questions about how museums can remain vital when they are situated in economically declining regions and have limited means for raising funds for operations and acquisitions.\n\nThe sculpture was auctioned at Sotheby's New York by Hugh Hildesley on 7 June 2007. Estimated to reach between $5 and $7 million, \"Artemis and the Stag\" broke records when it was sold for $28.6 million. It became the most valuable sculpture ever sold at auction, breaking the 2005 record of $27.4 million for Constantin Brâncuși's \"Bird in Space\". The sale price has since been surpassed by several modern works, but the only other sculpture from antiquity to fetch a higher price is the Guennol Lioness. The winning bidder remained anonymous, employing art dealer Giuseppe Eskenazi to complete the auction.\n\nIn January 2008 the sculpture was initially lent to the Metropolitan Museum of Art for six months, and it remains on display there as of 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "21901391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21901391", "title": "Benzion Netanyahu", "text": "Benzion Netanyahu\n\nBenzion Netanyahu (, ; born Benzion Mileikowsky; March 25, 1910 – April 30, 2012) was an Israeli historian. He served as Professor of History at Cornell University. A scholar of Judaic history, he was also an activist in the Revisionist Zionism movement, who lobbied in the United States to support the creation of the Jewish state. His field of expertise was the history of the Jews in Spain, and he served as an editor of the \"Hebrew Encyclopedia\". He spent a significant portion of his life in the United States. Though he became Ze'ev Jabotinsky's personal secretary, he never got involved directly in Israeli politics. He was the father of current Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Yonatan Netanyahu, ex-commander of Sayeret Matkal.\n\nBenzion Mileikowsky (later Netanyahu) was born in Warsaw in partitioned Poland which was under Russian control, to Sarah (Lurie) and the writer and Zionist activist Nathan Mileikowsky. Nathan was a rabbi who toured Europe and the United States, making speeches supporting Zionism. After Nathan took the family to Mandate Palestine (aliyah) in 1920, the family name eventually was changed to Netanyahu. After living in Jaffa, Tel Aviv, and Safed, the family settled in Jerusalem. Benzion Netanyahu studied in the David Yellin teachers' seminary and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Although his father was a rabbi, Benzion was secular. His younger brother, mathematician Elisha Netanyahu, became Dean of Sciences at the Technion. It was a common practice for Zionist immigrants at the time to adopt a Hebrew name. Nathan Mileikowsky began signing some of the articles he wrote \"Netanyahu,\" the Hebrew version of his first name, and his son adopted this as his family name. He also used the pen name \"Nitay.\"\n\nIn 1944, Netanyahu married Tzila Segal, whom he met during his studies in Palestine. The couple had three sons—Yonatan (1946–76), former commander of Sayeret Matkal, who was killed in action leading Operation Entebbe; Benjamin, (b. 1949), Israeli Prime Minister (1996–99, 2009–present); and Iddo (b. 1952), an Israeli physician, author and playwright. Netanyahu became a widower in 2000, when Tzila died.\n\nBenzion Netanyahu studied medieval history at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. During his studies, Netanyahu became active in Revisionist Zionism, a movement of people who had split from their mainstream Zionist counterparts, believing those in the mainstream were too conciliatory to the British authorities governing Palestine, and espousing a more militant, right-wing version of Jewish nationalism than the one advocated by the Labour Zionists who led Israel in its early years. The revisionists were led by Jabotinsky, whose belief in the necessity of an “iron wall” between Israel and its Arab neighbors had influenced Israeli politics since the 1930s. Netanyahu became a close friend to Abba Ahimeir.\n\nBenzion Netanyahu was co-editor of \"Betar\", a Hebrew monthly (1933–1934), then editor of the Revisionist Zionist daily newspaper \"Ha-Yarden\" in Jerusalem (1934–1935). until the British Mandate authorities ordered the paper to cease publication. He was editor at the Zionist Political Library, Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, 1935–1940.\n\nIn 1940, Netanyahu went to New York to be secretary to Jabotinsky, who was seeking to build American support for his militant New Zionists. Jabotinsky died the same year, and Netanyahu became executive director of the New Zionist Organization of America, the political rival of the more moderate Zionist Organization of America. He held the post until 1948.\n\nAs executive director, Netanyahu was one of the Revisionist movement's leaders in the United States during World War II. At the same time, he pursued his PhD at Dropsie College of Hebrew and Cognate Learning in Philadelphia (now the Center for Advanced Judaic Studies at the University of Pennsylvania), writing his dissertation on Isaac Abrabanel (1437–1508), a Jewish scholar and statesman who opposed the banishment of Jews from Spain.\n\nNetanyahu believed in Greater Israel. When the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine was published (November 29, 1947), he joined others who signed a petition against the plan. The petition was published in \"The New York Times\". During that time, he was active in engaging with Congress members in Washington, D.C..\n\nIn 1949, he returned to Israel, where he tried to start a political career but failed. Relentlessly hawkish, he believed that the \"vast majority of Israeli Arabs would choose to exterminate us if they had the option to do so\". In his younger days, he had been strongly in favour of the idea of Arab transfer out of Palestine.\n\nIn 2009, he told \"Maariv\" that \"The tendency to conflict is the essence of the Arab. He is an enemy by essence. His personality won't allow him to compromise. It doesn't matter what kind of resistance he will meet, what price he will pay. His existence is one of perpetual war.\"\n\nHaving previously struggled to fit into Israeli academia without success, perhaps due to a combination of personal and political reasons, Netanyahu nonetheless continued his academic activities upon his return to the Jewish State. Though he still was not able to become a member of the academic faculty of the Hebrew University, his mentor Joseph Klausner recommended him to be one of the editors of the “Encyclopaedia Hebraica” in Hebrew; and upon Klausner's death, Netanyahu became chief editor.\n\nHe returned to Dropsie College in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, first as professor of Hebrew language and literature and chairman of the department (1957–1966); then as professor of medieval Jewish history and Hebrew literature (1966–1968). Subsequently, he moved first to University of Denver as professor of Hebraic studies, (1968–1971), then returned to New York in order to edit a Jewish encyclopedia. Eventually he took a position at Cornell University as professor of Judaic studies and chairman of the department of Semitic languages and literature, from 1971–1975. Following the death of his son Yonatan during the Entebbe hostage rescue operation in 1976, he and his family returned to Israel. At the time of his death, Netanyahu was a member of the Academy for Fine Arts and a professor emeritus at Cornell University.\n\nContinuing his interest in Medieval Spanish Jewry, Golden age of Jewish culture in Spain and Portugal, Netanyahu wrote a book about Isaac Abrabanel and essays on the Spanish Inquisition and the Marranos. He developed a theory according to which the Marranos converted to Christianity, not under compulsion, but out of a desire to integrate into Christian society. However, as New Christians they continued to be persecuted due to racism, and not purely for religious reasons, as was previously believed. He argued that what was new in the 15th century was the Spanish monarchy’s practice of defining Jews not religiously, but racially, by the principle of \"limpieza de sangre\", purity of blood; which served as a model for 20th-century racial theories. Netanyahu rejected the idea that the Marranos lived double lives, claiming that this theory arose from Inquisition documents.\n\nNetanyahu is perhaps best known for his magnum opus, \"Origins of the Inquisition in Fifteenth Century Spain\". His publisher and friend Jason Epstein wrote of the book: The 1,400-page work of scholarship overturned centuries of misunderstanding, and predictably it was faintly praised and in a few cases angrily denounced or simply ignored by a threatened scholarly establishment. Dispassionate scholars soon prevailed, and today Benzion’s brilliant revisionist achievement towers over the field of Inquisition studies.\n\nHis obituary in \"The New York Times\" stated: \"Though praised for its insights, the book was also criticized as having ignored standard sources and interpretations. Not a few reviewers noted that it seemed to look at long-ago cases of anti-Semitism through the rear-view mirror of the Holocaust.\" Indeed, quite generally, Netanyahu regarded Jewish history as \"a history of holocausts.\" \"Origins\" led Netanyahu into a scholarly dispute with Yitzhak Baer. Baer, following earlier views, considered the Anusim (forced converts to Christianity) to be a case of \"Kiddush Hashem\" (sanctification of the name [of God]: i.e., dying or risking oneself to preserve the name of God). According to Baer, therefore, the converts chose to live a double life, with some level of risk, while retaining their original faith. Netanyahu, in contrast, challenged the belief that the accusations of the Inquisition were true, and considered the majority of converts to be \"Mitbolelim\" (Cultural assimilationists), and willing converts to Christianity, claiming that the small number of forced converts who did not truly adhere to their new religion were used by the Inquisition as propaganda to allege a broader resistance movement. According to Netanyahu, Christian society had actually never accepted the new converts, for reasons of racial envy.\n\nNetanyahu was a member of the American Academy for Jewish Research, the Institute for Advanced Religious Studies and the American Zionist Emergency Council. In the 1960s, Netanyahu edited in English two more major reference books: the “Encyclopedia Judaica” and “The World History of the Jewish People.”\n\nAwarded Doctorate Honoris Causa by the University of Valladolid (Spain) in 2001.\n\nNetanyahu died on the morning of April 30, 2012, in his Jerusalem home at the age of 102. He was survived by two of his three sons, seven grandchildren and twelve great-grandchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15661133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15661133", "title": "Bibliothèque des Ecoles françaises d'Athènes et de Rome", "text": "Bibliothèque des Ecoles françaises d'Athènes et de Rome\n\nBibliothèque des Écoles françaises d'Athènes et de Rome (\"Library of the French schools of Greece and Rome\") is the name of two published series of historical documents, such as the letters of 13th century Popes during the Crusades.\n\nModern history books which cite excerpts from letters of the Crusades, often list the BEF in their citation.\n\nThe first series began publication in 1877.\n\nThe second series was published 1884–1960.\n\n\n\nOther correspondence includes that of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3948206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3948206", "title": "Codicil (will)", "text": "Codicil (will)\n\nA codicil is a testamentary document similar but not necessarily identical to a will. In some jurisdictions, it may serve to amend, rather than replace, a previously executed will. In others, it may serve as an alternative to a will. In still others, there is no recognized distinction between a codicil and a will.\n\nLatin codicillus meaning a short additional text or a small writing tablet. The diminutive of codex see also code\n\nThe concept of a testamentary document is similar to but distinct from a will originated in Roman law. In the pre-classical period, a testator was required to nominate an heir in order for his will to be valid (\"heredis institutio\"). Failure to nominate an heir or failure to observe the proper formalities for nomination of an heir resulted in an estate divided pursuant to the rules of intestacy. However, a testator was also able to institute a \"fideicommissum\", a more flexible and less formal indication of the testator's intent, which could have the effect of transferring part or all of his estate after death, although with fewer rights to the beneficiary than those of a nominated heir.\n\nA \"codicillus\" (diminutive of \"codex\") was a written document subject to fewer formal requirements than a will (\"testamentum\") that, in its initial use, could supplement or amend an existing will, provided that the codicil was specified, i. e. confirmed, in the will. However, if the will did not confirm the codicil, all provisions in the codicil were considered \"fideicommissa\". Furthermore, a will that did not nominate an heir could be considered a codicil. Thus, when a testator did not nominate an heir, his will would be considered a codicil and his bequests would become \"fideicommissa\". This \"opened a way to save certain dispositions in a will which was invalid due to some formal or substantive defect\": if a testator failed or chose not to nominate an heir, an estate would pass to heirs pursuant to rules of intestacy, but those heirs would be bound by the \"fideicommissa\" in the codicil.\n\nBy the time of the \"Codex Justinianus\", the formal requirements for wills had relaxed, while requirements for codicils had become more stringent. \"There was thus little difference between the formalities for a will and for a codicil\", and an invalid will, when for example, no heir had been nominated, could often be validated as a codicil.\n\nIt is acknowledged that classical Roman inheritance law was \"highly complicated and to a large extent perplexedly entangled\".\n\nThe codicil remained a distinct entity to a will (testament) to varying degrees throughout the Roman-influenced legal world. The concept of \"heredis institutio\" (a will requires an heir) was part of the \"jus commune\" up until modern times.\n\nIn the United States, a codicil is a document that changes an existing will. Amendments made by a codicil may alter, explain, add to, subtract from, or confirm – and otherwise amend a will in any other way, minor or major, short of complete revocation. It is subject to the same formal requirements as a will.\n"}
{"id": "4135579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4135579", "title": "Complete Collection of Russian Chronicles", "text": "Complete Collection of Russian Chronicles\n\nThe Complete Collection of Russian Chronicles (, abbr. \"PSRL\") is a series of published volumes aimed at collecting all medieval East Slavic chronicles, with various editions published in Imperial Russia, the Soviet Union, and Russian Federation. The project is ongoing and far from finished.\n\nThe chronicles were assembled by the Archaeographical Expedition of the Russian Academy of Sciences (starting in 1828). They were prepared for publication by the Archaeographical Commission, established in 1834 as part of the Ministry of National Enlightenment. The first volumes were published by a publisher \"Typography of Edward Prats\". The commission was charged to publish the collection on February 18, 1837.\n\nThe first ten volumes appeared between 1841 and 1863. New volumes have been brought forth piecemeal throughout the 20th and early 21st centuries. Some of the older volumes have also been reprinted, especially after 1997.\n\n\nIn 1871-72 the first two volumes were republished as the second editions.\n\n"}
{"id": "265656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265656", "title": "Dactyly", "text": "Dactyly\n\nIn biology, dactyly is the arrangement of digits (fingers and toes) on the hands, feet, or sometimes wings of a tetrapod animal. It comes from the Greek word δακτυλος (\"dáktulos\") = \"finger\".\n\nSometimes the ending \"-dactylia\" is used. The derived adjectives end with \"-dactyl\" or \"-dactylous\".\n\nPentadactyly (from Greek πέντε (\"pénte\") = \"five\" and δάκτυλος (\"dáktulos\") = \"finger\") is the condition of having five digits on each limb. It is believed that all living tetrapods are descended from an ancestor with a pentadactyl limb, although many species have now lost or transformed some or all of their digits by the process of evolution. However, this viewpoint was challenged by Stephen Jay Gould in his 1991 essay \"Eight (Or Fewer) Little Piggies\". Despite the individual variations listed below, the relationship is to the original five-digit model.\n\nIn reptiles, the limbs are pentadactylous.\n\nTetradactyly (from Greek tetra-=\"four\" plus δακτυλος = \"finger\") is the condition of having four digits on a limb, as in many amphibians, birds, and theropod dinosaurs. Some mammals also exhibit tetradactyly (for example the hind limbs of dogs and cats). Cartoon characters are commonly drawn with four digits on each hand/foot as it's clearer to see than five.\n\nTridactyly (from Greek tri- = \"three\" plus δακτυλος = \"finger\") is the condition of having three digits on a limb, as in the rhinoceros and ancestors of the horse such as \"Protohippus\" and \"Hipparion\". These all belong to the Perissodactyla. Some birds also have three toes, including emus, bustards, and quail.\n\nDidactyly (from Greek di-=\"two\" plus δακτυλος = \"finger\") or bidactyly is the condition of having two digits on each limb, as in the Hypertragulidae and two-toed sloth, \"Choloepus didactylus\". In humans this name is used for an abnormality in which the middle digits are missing, leaving only the thumb and fifth finger, or big and little toes. Cloven-hoofed mammals (such as deer, sheep and cattle - \"Artiodactyla\") have only two digits, as do ostriches.\n\nMonodactyly (from Greek monos- = \"one\" plus δακτυλος = \"finger\") is the condition of having a single digit on a limb, as in modern horses. These belong to the Perissodactyla.\n\nSyndactyly (from Greek συν- = \"together\" plus δακτυλος = \"finger\") is a condition where two or more digits are fused together. It occurs normally in some mammals, such as the siamang and most diprotodontid marsupials such as kangaroos. It occurs as an unusual condition in humans.\n\nPolydactyly (from Greek πολυ- = \"many\" plus δακτυλος = \"finger\") is when a limb has more than the usual number of digits. This can be:\n\nOligodactyly (from Greek ὀλιγο- = \"few\" plus δακτυλος = \"finger\") is having too few digits when not caused by an amputation. It is sometimes incorrectly called hypodactyly or confused with aphalangia, the absence of the phalanx bone on one or (commonly) more digits. When \"all\" the digits on a hand or foot are absent, it is referred to as \"adactyly\".\n\nEctrodactyly, also known as \"split-hand malformation\", is the congenital absence of one or more central digits of the hands and feet. Consequently, it is a form of oligodactyly. News anchor Bree Walker is probably the best-known person with this condition, which affects about one in 91,000 people. It is conspicuously more common in the Vadoma in Zimbabwe.\n\nAnisodactyly is the most common arrangement of digits in birds, with three toes forward and one back. This is common in songbirds and other perching birds, as well as hunting birds like eagles, hawks, and falcons.\nThis occurs in Passeriformes, Columbiformes, falconiformes, accipitriformes, Galliformes and vast majority of birds.\n\nSyndactyly, as it occurs in birds, is like anisodactyly, except that the third and fourth toes (the outer and middle forward-pointing toes), or three toes, are fused together, as in the belted kingfisher (\"Megaceryle alcyon\"). This is characteristic of Coraciiformes (kingfishers, bee-eaters, rollers, and relatives).\n\nZygodactyly (from Greek ζυγος, even) is an arrangement of digits in birds and chameleons, with two toes facing forward (digits 2 and 3) and two back (digits 1 and 4). This arrangement is most common in arboreal species, particularly those that climb tree trunks or clamber through foliage. Zygodactyly occurs in the parrots, woodpeckers (including flickers), cuckoos (including roadrunners), and some owls. Zygodactyl tracks have been found dating to 120–110 Ma (early Cretaceous), 50 million years before the first identified zygodactyl fossils. All Psittaciformes, Cuculiformes, the majority of Piciformes and the osprey are zygodactyl.\nHeterodactyly is like zygodactyly, except that digits 3 and 4 point forward and digits 1 and 2 point back. This is found only in trogons.\n\nPamprodactyly is an arrangement in which all four toes point forward, outer toes (toe 1 and sometimes 4) often if not regularly reversible. It is a characteristic of swifts (Apodidae) and mousebirds (Coliiformes).\n\nThe feet of chameleons are organized into bundles of a group of two and a group of three digits which oppose one another to grasp branches in a pincer-like arrangement. This condition has been called zygodactyly or didactyly, however, the specific arrangement in chameleons does not fit either definition. The feet of the front limbs in chameleons, for instance, are organized into a medial bundle of digits 1, 2 and 3, and a lateral bundle of digits 4 and 5, while the feet of the hind limbs are organized into a medial bundle of digits 1 and 2, and a lateral bundle of digits 3, 4 and 5. Zygodactyly by definition, on the other hand, involves digits 1 and 4 opposing digits 2 and 3, while chameleons do not exhibit this arrangement in either front or hind limbs. Further, didactyly involves only two digits per limb, while chameleons have five digits, despite being bundled into two opposing bundles.\n\nSchizodactyly is a primate term for grasping and clinging with the second and third digit, instead of the thumb and second digit.\n"}
{"id": "13569970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13569970", "title": "De-Sinicization", "text": "De-Sinicization\n\nDe-Sinicization (\"de\" + \"Sinicization\") is the elimination of Chinese influence.\n\nHan dynasty General Li Ling defected to the Xiongnu and married a daughter of the Xiongnu Chanyu and acculturated to Xiongnu customs.\n\nPeople of mixed ancestry or desinicized Han Chinese who adopted steppe people's culture and way of life existed in the sixth and seventh centuries A.D., and some even served in the Sui and Tang Dynasties' military.\n\nXianbei last names were adopted by Han Chinese as was Xianbei culture, militarism and clothing. The Xianbei language was learned by several Han in the northern dynasties. Xianbei surnames were assigned to Han troops and officers in the Northern Zhou. Gao Huan and Feng Ba were Han rulers who adopted Xianbei culture. Feng Ba adopted a Xianbei name, Qizhifa 乞直伐.\n\nAll ethnicities who were of the literati were possibly called Haner because ethnic Xianbei were referred to as \"damned Chinese\" by the Northern Qi. Appearing as culturally Xianbei and at the same time declaring Han Chinese ancestry was done by Gao Huan and the Han family. There was Xianbeification of Han.\n\nXianbeification happened to some sections of the Liu and Sima Han Chinese families.\n\nThe language of the Xianbei was taught to a Han by his father who was an official.\n\nTujue culture and language was practiced and spoken by Tang Prince Li Chengqian. Meanwhile, several other acts of Li Chengqian were also drawing Emperor Taizong's ire. Homosexuality. The mixed blood northwestern families were looked down upon by the pure blood Chinese aristocratic families.\n\nThe Khitan Liao dynasty arranged for women from the Khitan royal consort Xiao clan to marry members of the Han Chinese Han 韓 clan, which originated in Jizhou 冀州 before being abducted by the Khitan and becoming part of the Han Chinese elite of the Liao and adopting Khitan culture.\n\nHan Chinese Geng family intermarried with the Khitan and the Han 韓 clan provided two of their women as wives to Geng Yanyi and the second one was the mother of Geng Zhixin. Empress Rende's sister, a member of the Xiao clan, was the mother of Han Chinese General Geng Yanyi.\n\nHan Durang (Yelu Longyun) was the father of Queen dowager of State Chen, who was the wife of General Geng Yanyi and buried with him in his tomb in Zhaoyang in Liaoning. His wife was also known as \"Madame Han\". The Geng's tomb is located in Liaoning at Guyingzi in Chaoying.\n\nHan clothing and Han culture was practiced by Han women who were seen as Han culture guardians in contrast to Han men who wore Khitan clothing and practiced Khitan culture.\n\nA Liao Duke of Han ethnicity after his death was cremated in Buddhist fashion.\n\nThe early Ming dynasty Emperors from Hongwu to Zhengde continued Yuan practices such as hereditary military institutions, demanding Korean and Muslim concubines and eunuchs, engaging in archery and horseback riding, having Mongols serve in the Ming military, patronizing Tibetan Buddhism, with the early Ming Emperors seeking to project themselves as \"universal rulers\" to various peoples such as Central Asian Muslims, Tibetans, and Mongols, however, this history of Ming universalism has been obscured and denied by historians who covered it up and presented the Ming as xenophobes seeking to expunge Mongol influence and presenting while they presented the Qing and Yuan as \"universal\" rulers in contrast to the Ming.\n\nA cavalry based army modeled on the Yuan military was implemented by the Hongwu and Yongle Emperors. Hongwu's army and officialdom incorporated Mongols. Mongols were retained by the Ming within its territory. in Guangxi Mongol archers participated in a war against Miao minorities.\n\nAn anti pig slaughter edict led to speculation that the Zhengde Emperor adopted Islam due to his use of Muslim eunuchs who commissioned the production of porcelain with Persian and Arabic inscriptions in white and blue color. Muslim eunuchs contributed money in 1496 to repairing Niujie Mosque. Central Asian women were provided to the Zhengde Emperor by a Muslim guard and Sayyid Hussein from Hami. The guard was Yu Yung and the women were Uighur. It is unknown who really was behind the anti-pig slaughter edict. The speculation of him becoming a Muslim is remembered alongside his excessive and debauched behavior along with his concubines of foreign origin. Zhengde defeated the Mongols under Dayan Khan. Muslim Central Asian girls were favored by Zhengde like how Korean girls were favored by Xuande. In 1517 the Mongols were defeated by Zhengde. Mongol clothing was worn by the military enthusiastic Zhengde emperor. A Uighur concubine was kept by Zhengde like the later Qing emperor Qianlong. Foreign origin Uighur and Mongol women were favored by the Zhengde emperor. Tatar (Mongol) and Central Asian women were bedded by Zhengde and he wore Mongol clothing and was fluent in Mongol language, and he adopted Persian, Buddhist, and Mongol names and titles : 威武大將軍太師鎮國公 沙吉敖爛 大寶法王 忽必列. probably studied Persian and Tibetan as well.\n\nThe Imperial exam included archery. Archery on horseback was practiced by Chinese living near the frontier. Wang Ju's writings on archery were followed during the Ming and Yuan and the Ming developed new methods of archery. Jinling Tuyong showed archery in Nanjing during the Ming. Contests in archery were held in the capital for Garrison of Guard soldiers who were handpicked.\n\nEquestrianism and archery were favored activities of Zhu Di (the Yongle Emperor).\n\nArchery and equestrianism were frequent pastimes by the Zhengde Emperor. He practiced archery and horseriding with eunuchs. Tibetan Buddhist monks, Muslim women and musicians were obtained and provided to Zhengde by his guard Ch'ien Ning, who acquainted him with the ambidextrous archer and military officer Chiang Pin.\n\nSome Han Chinese during the Ming dynasty also joined the Manchu Eight banners and became \"Manchufied\". The Manchu people founded the Qing dynasty.\n\nThe Han Chinese banners were known as the \"Nikan\" Banners, made out of a massive number of Chinese POWs and defectors. Jurchen women married most of these Chinese since they came with no family of their own. There were so many Han Chinese entering the Banners that there were more of them than the Jurchen. Attempts by Hung Taiji were made to separate Han Chinese and Jurchen banners. In Chinese and Jurchen of Liaodong were mixed in culture. Many bannermen forged genealogies of their origin since they did not have any, and then these decided whether or not they were in a Chinese or a Jurchen banner. The Eight Banners were then created from the old black Han Chinese banners and Jurchen banners and made equal to each other. The Mongol Eight banners were also created at this time, and anyone who was not classified into a Chinese or a Mongol banner became a Manchu, an ethnic group which Hung Taiji created.\n\nManchu bannermen and Han bannermen were not categorized according to blood or ancestry or genealogy; they were categorized by their language, culture, behavior, identification and way of life. Many Chinese bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) were descended from Sinicized Jurchen who spoke Chinese and served the Ming, while some ethnic Manchu Bannermen (Baqi Manzhou) were of ethnic Han origins who had defected to the Jurchens, assimilated into Jurchen language and culture and lived among them in Jilin before 1618.\n\nThe Qing regarded Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) and the non Bannerman Han civilian general population (Han min, Han ren, minren) as separate. People were grouped into Manchu Banners and Chinese Banners (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) not based on their ancestry, race or blood, but based on their culture and the language they spoke. Han who deserted the Ming and who had moved to Nurgan (Jilin) as transfrontiersmen before 1618 assimilated with the Jurchen, practiced Jurchen culture and spoke Jurchen became part of the ethnic Manchu Banners, while descendants of sinicized Jurchen who had moved to Liaodong, adopted Han culture and surname, and swore loyalty to the Ming and spoke Chinese, eventually became part of the Chinese Banners (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) after being conquered by Nurhaci after 1618.\n\nHan who actively defected to the Jurchen in Nurgan before 1618 were called \"transfrontiersman\" since they crossed the frontier over into Jurchen territory and adopted Jurchen identity and later became part of the Manchu Banners, while Han in Ming ruled Liaodong who only defected after the Qing conquered Liaoding were called \"frontiersman\" since they only lived on the frontier of Ming territory and they were put into the Chinese Banners (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) .\n\nHan Chinese defectors who fled from the Ming joined the Jurchens in Nurgan before 1618 were placed into Manchu Banners and regarded as Manchu, but the Ming residents of Liaodong who were incorporated into the Eight Banners after the conquest of Liaodong from the Ming from 1618-1643 were placed into the separate Chinese Banners (Chinese:Hanjun, Manchu: Nikan cooha or Ujen cooha), and many of these Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) from Liaodong had Jurchen ancestry and were not classified as Manchu by the Qing. Geography, culture, language, occupation and lifestyle were the factors used by Nurhaci's Jianzhou Jurchen Khanate to classify people as Jurchen or Nikan, those who were considered Jurchen lived in a Jurchen lifestyle, used the Jurchen language and inhabited the eastern part were considered Jurchen, while those who were considered by Nurhaci as Nikan (Han Chinese) even though some of these Nikan were of Korean or Jurchen ancestry, were the ones who used Chinese language, and inhabited villages and towns on the west.\n\nPeople from both sides often moved over the cultural and territorial division between the Ming Liaodong and Jurchen Nurgan; Han Chinese soldiers and peasants moved into Nurgan while Jurchen mercenaries and merchants moved to Liaodong, with some lineages ended up being dispersed on both sides, and the Jurchen viewed people as Nikan depending on whether they acted like Han Chinese. People from the same lineage like the Sinicized Jurchen Tong lineage of Fushun in Liaodong served both Ming and the Qing, with some like Tong Bunian staying as diehard Ming loyalists and others having faithfully serving the Qing conquest, after Liaodong was conquered and the Tong were enrolled in the Han Plain Blue Banner by the Qing. Eventually, the Kangxi Emperor even transferred some members of the Tong lineage like Tong Guogang and a few of his close relatives to the Manchu Bordered Yellow Banner after Tong requested the transfer.\n\nTong Guogang justified his asking for transfer to a Manchu Banner was because the Tong were of Jurchen origin, but only Tong Guogang's immediate family and company were transferred to the Manchu but the other Tong companies were left as Chinese. It was Qing policy to for every closely related in-law of the emperor to get transferred into a Manchu Banner even if they were from another ethnicity and this was the most probable reason why Tong's request was granted by Kangxi, and more like than his appeal to his Jurchen origin. The beginning of the Qing showed flexibility and political expedience was used when determining ethnicity, both regarding Tong's transfer from a Han to a Manchu Banner and Han Chinese who assimilated to the Jurchens.\n\nThe geographical, political, and cultural division was between the Ming Liaodong and the Jurchen dominated Nurgan, which traded and interacted with Liaodong through Fushun.\n\nNurhaci and Hongtaiji both viewed ethnic identity as determined by culture, language, and attitude, not by ancestry (genealogy), and these identities could be changed and people transferred from different ethnic banners to another. Mongols were associated with the Mongolian language, nomadism and horse related activities, Manchus were associated with Manchu language and foremost being part of the Banners, and Han Chinese were associated with inhabiting Liaodong, the Chinese language, agriculture, commerce. Biological determinants and ancestry were disregarded in determining Manchu and Han identities, culture was the primary factor in differentiating between Manchu and Han, and occasionally identities were blurred and could be altered. The Qing creation of the separate Manchu, Mongol, and Han Banners was not rooted in distinguishable classifications of people, but of fluxing categories defined by the Qing, their membership in the different banners primarily depending on whether they spoke the Manchu, Mongolian, or the Chinese language. It has been suggested that the Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) themselves were not very familiar with the exact meaning of \"Hanjun\", as the Qing changed the definition of what it meant to be a Manchu or a Han Bannerman.\n\nThe Manchu official Duanfang had Han Chinese ancestors originating from Zhejiang- towards the end of the Ming, they had defected to the Qing and moved to southern Manchuria from their original home in Zhejiang province, they changed their surname to Tohoro from Tao to make it sound Manchu and registered it in the Manchu Plain White Banner. Since the Manchus were willing to accept assimilated strangers, Han Chinese who defected to the Jurchens or were captured by them had integrated well into Manchu society. These Han Chinese transfrontiersman from Liaodong embraced Manchu customs and changed their names into Manchu to the point where they identified as Manchu rather than Chinese and resembles Manchus in their speech, behavior, and looks. It is hard for historians to tell whether a Manchu was originally a Han transfrontiersman since they no longer used Chinese names or regarded themselves as Han Chinese, Frederic Wakeman suggested that is evidence that the Manchu Dahai's ancestors were Han Chinese transfrontiersman. The Jurchen headman of Turun-hoton and arch-enemy of Nurhaci, Nikan Wailan, was also suggested to be a Han transfrontiersman by Wakeman, since his name literally meant \"Chinese official\".\n\nThe Manchu word for Han, \"Nikan\" was used to describe people who lived like Han Chinese and not their actual ethnic origin, the Han Bannermen (Hanjun) was not an ethnic category and the Han Banners included people of non-Han Chinese blood. When Liaodong was invaded in 1619 by Nurhaci, it became imperative for the Jurchens to secure the loyalty of the Han (Nikan) in Liaodong to their cause, by treating them equally as Jurchens were treated and even seizing Jurchen properties, grains, wealth, possessions and homes to grant them to Han, and having the aristocracy expand to include Han families in order to get Han to defect to Nurhaci's side.\n\nSome Han Bannermen and their lineages became successful members of the Qing nobility and their descendants continued to be awarded noble titles, like that of Li Yongfang who was ennobled by Nurhaci as third class viscount and enrolled in the Plain Blue Chinese Banner (Hanjun, or Han Banner), and his descendants continued to be nobles to the final years of Qianlong's rule and were ennobled with even greater titles. The Manchus gave extensive titles and honors and marriage to Aisin Gioro women to pre-1644 Han defectors, like the marriage of Nurhaci's granddaughter to Li Yongfang and his sons registered in the Chinese Plain Blue banner (Hanjun, or Han Banner), and the title granted to the son of a Ming defector, Sun Sike (Sun Ssu-k'o) in the Chinese Plain White Banner, (Hanjun, or Han Banner) and the marriage of one of Kangxi's daughters to his son.\n\nAt the beginning of the Qing, originally the sharpest distinction was drawn by Qing policy to emphasize difference between Han civilians and all Bannermen, and not between Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) and Manchu Bannermen. The Manchus used Nikan to describe Ming subjects in Liaodong who lived a Chinese lifestyle like sinicized Jurchens, Mongols, and Koreans, and not as a racial term for ethnic Han Chinese. A person only had to be originally a Ming subject and not ethnic Chinese to get categorized as a Han bannerman so people of Jurchen origin ended up in Mongol and Chinese Banners. Nurhaci used culture to categorize people and allowed Han transfrontiersmen to identify as Manchu after assimilating, and ethnicity was regarded as flexible when Han Chinese and Mongols families were moved by Kangxi to Manchu Banners from their original Mongol and Chinese Banners (Hanjun, or Han Banners) .\n\nLi Yongfang's rewards for surrendering Fushun to the Jurchens and defecting included promotion in rank, Nurhaci's granddaughter as a wife, battling along with Nurhaci and induction into the Jin aristocracy as a Chinese frontiersman, which was different from how Nurhaci handled both the Han transfrontiersmen who assimilated into Manchu identity and captured Han bondservants. The Chinese frontiersman were inducted into the Han Banners. Nurhaci offered to reward Li Yongfang with promotion and special treatment if he surrendered Fushun reminding him of the grim fate that would await him and Fushun's residents if they continued to resist. Freeholder status was given to Li Yongfang's 1,000 troops after his surrender, and the later Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) Bao Chengxian and Shi Tingzhu also experience good fortune in Qing service after their surrenders in 1622 at Guangning.\n\nNurhaci used semi-literate interlocutors of Han (Nikan) origin to translate between different languages and trusted them a lot, developing close and friendly personal relations with some of them like Kanggūri and Fanggina. The Han Chinese Gong Zhenglu (Gong Zhengliu) who was abducted in the 1580s by the Jurchens from Liaodong with tens of thousands of others, originally came from Shaoxing in Zhejiang became a close confidant of Nurhaci and tutoring his sons, adopting the Manchu name Onoi, and being showered with wives, slaves, and a house by Nurhaci.\n\nThe Manchu leader Nurhaci embarked on the conquest of Liaodong from the Ming dynasty, luring Han Chinese to his side to defect by threatening them with destruction and at the same time also promising them rewards, with important positions. A massive revolt against the Jurchens by the Liaodong Chinese broke out in 1623, due to the Jurchens squeezing the Chinese for labor and stationing Jurchen in Chinese households. Acts of sabotage and slaughter of the Jurchen were carried out by the Chinese rebels in retaliation. Hong Taiji, who succeeded Nurhaci, began to include many Chinese in his government and copy the Chinese style of governing. After defeats inflicted by the Chinese General Yuan Chonghuan upon the Manchus with artillery such as at the Battle of Ningyuan, the Manchu then decided to absorb Han Chinese prisoners who knew how to use guns into their army to supplement their forces.\n\nThe Manchus also lured Han Chinese Generals into defecting and joining the Banners by marrying them to women from the Imperial Aisin Gioro family. One Han Chinese General, Li Yongfang (Li Yung-fang) was bribed by the Manchus into defecting by being married to an Aisin Gioro wife, and being given a position in the banners. Many more Han Chinese abandoned their posts and joined the Manchus. A mass marriage of Han Chinese to Manchu women numbering 1,000 took place in 1632 after Prince Yoto came up with the idea. They were either generals or officials. It was said by the Manchu leader that \"since the Chinese generals and Manchu women lived together and ate together, it would help these surrendered generals to forget their motherland.\" Women from the Imperial family were also married to other Han Chinese officials like the Three Feudatories' sons, who defected to the Qing after their conquest of China. The Manchus also created an artillery unit out of Han Chinese, which they used against the Ming army. Han Chinese were also lured by the Manchus into defecting and entering their employ in civil service by granting them privileges such as calling themselves \"ministers\", while Manchus in the same position were regarded as \"slaves\".\n\nThe Han who classified in different ways had come under Manchu rule in three different eras, before 1618 the Han \"transfrontiersmen\" who threw in their lot with Nurhaci were effectively only Han Chinese by ancestry and blood since they practiced Jurchen culture and became part of Manchu companies (Niru) within Manchu Banners, while from 1618-1622 the Han captured in Liaodong and Liaoxi became either bondservants to Manchu Banners or Han Bannermen, and then finally the Han who deserted the Ming during Hong Taiji's rule to join the Manchu, and these were first placed into separate all Han companies (Niru) attached to Manchu Banners, and then when in 1642 the Manchu Banners ejected all their Han companies they were placed into separate Chinese Banners (Hanjun, or Han Banners) since they were the mostly not assimilated to Jurchen culture.\n\nAt Guangning, Shi Tingzhu, a Ming soldier of Jurchen descent but who practiced Chinese culture, had surrendered to Nurhaci's Later Jin in 1622 along with Bao Chengxian and they were eventually placed into Chinese Banners (Hanjun, or Han Banners), after Bao suggested creating sepearte Chinese Banners (Hanjun, or Han Banners) . Neither were all Han Chinese in the Eight Banners part of the Chinese Banners (Hanjun, or Han Banners), nor was the Chinese Banners (Hanjun, or Han Banners) made out of only Han Chinese, Han Banner membership did not automatically mean they were actual Han Chinese.\n\nThe Jurchens under Nurhaci had classified people as Han Chinese (Nikan) according to whether they were former Ming subjects, behaved like Han Chinese, had a Chinese lifestyle, spoke Chinese language, dressed like Han Chinese, and had Han Chinese names, and all Jurchens who had moved to Ming China adopted Chinese surnames. Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) rose to many powerful positions and prominence under Shunzhi, these Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) were descendants of Han defectors in Liaodong who joined Nurhaci and Hong Taiji, in the third or second generation. They \"were barely distinguishable from Manchu nobility.\" Geng Zhongming, a Han bannerman, was awarded the title of Prince Jingnan, and his son Geng Jingmao managed to have both his sons Geng Jingzhong and Geng Zhaozhong become court attendants under Shunzhi and get married to Aisin Gioro women, with Haoge's (a son of Hong Taiji) daughter marrying Geng Jingzhong and Prince Abatai's granddaughter marrying Geng Zhaozhong.\n\nThe mistaken views applied to Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) about race and ethnicity missed the fact that they were actually a \"cultural group\" since a person could be a Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) without having to be an actual Han Chinese. It was Qianlong who redefined the identity of Han Bannermen by saying that they were to be regarded as of having the same culture and being of the same ancestral extraction as Han civilians, this replaced the earlier opposing ideology and stance used by Nurhaci and Hong Taiji who classified identity according to culture and politics only and not ancestry, but it was Qianlong's view on Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) identity which influenced the later historians and expunged the earlier Qing stance.\n\nQianlong also promulgated an entirely new view of the Han Bannermen different from his grandfather Kangxi, coming up with the abstract theory that loyalty in itself was what was regarded as the most important, so Qianlong viewed those Han Bannermen who had defected from the Ming to the Qing as traitors and compiled an unfavorable biography of the prominent Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) who had defected to the Qing, while at the same time Qianlong had compiled a biography to glorify Ming loyalists who were martyred in battle against the Qing called \"Record of Those Martyred for Their Dynasty and Sacrificed for Purity\". Some of Qianlong's inclusions and omissions on the list were political in nature, like including Li Yongfang out of Qianlong's dislike for his descendant Li Shiyao and excluding Ma Mingpei out of concern for his son Ma Xiongzhen's image.\n\nFrom 1618-1629, the Han Chinese from eastern Liaodong who joined the Eight Banners were known as \"tai nikan\", the Han who defected to the Qing at Fushun were known as Fushan Nikan and were considered part of the tai nikan. The Tai Nikan were distinguished from the later Han Chinese who joined the banners between 1629-1643 and originated from western Liaodong, Shanxi, Shandong, and Zhili, and were known as \"fu xi baitangga\". Both groups were part of the Chinese Banners before the Qing crossed over Shanhai pass in 1644, and as such were both distinguished from Han who were incorporated into the Chinese Banners after 1644 when the Qing ruled China. The pre-1644 Chinese Bannermen were known as \"old men\" 旧人 . A mass transfer into the Manchu banners of every single Fushun Nikan, and specifically chosen tai nikan, Koreans, and Mongols was enacted by the Qianlong Emperor in 1740.\n\nManchu Bannermen in Beijing were driven into poverty just decades after the conquest, living in slums and falling into debt, with signs of their plight appearing as soon as 1655. They were driven to the point where they had to sell their property to Han Chinese, in violation of the law.\n\nOriginally in the early Qing the Qing Emperors both took some Han Chinese as concubines and a 1648 decree from Shunzhi allowed Han Chinese men to marry Manchu women from the Banners with the permission of the Board of Revenue if they were registered daughters of officials or commoners or the permission of their banner company captain if they were unregistered commoners, it was only later in the dynasty that these policies were done away with and the Qing enacted new policies in their xiunu system of drafting Banner girls for the Imperial Harem by excluding daughters of Han commoners.\n\nChinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) frequently married Han civilian women and this was permitted by the Qing Emperors, however the Qing Emperors were distressed to find girls in the Banners as a result of these intermarriages following Han civilian customs in clothing and jewelry when they ended up being drafted for palace service. The Qing formulated policies to remove and shut out daughters of common Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) from serving in the Imperial palace as maids and consorts, exempting them from the draft, asserting that it was doing it out of concern due to the economic plight of Chinese Bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen), however, it may have been doing this after the Qing court was alarmed to find girls from Chinese Banners (Hanjun, or Han Banners) following Han Chinese civilian customs like wearing robes with wide sleeves, feet binding, and wearing a single earring, all of which were contrary to Manchu custom, daughters of Manchu and Mongol bannerman still had to submit to the draft where they would be selected to serve in the Imperial palace as maids or potential consorts. Daughters of Han Bannermen were exempt from having to submit themselves to palace service. It was not permitted for daughters of Chinese Banner (Hanjun, or Han Banner) to enter the selection as concubines to the Emperor.\n\nThe Manchu bannermen typically used their first/personal name to address themselves and not their last name, while Han bannermen used their last name and first in normal Chinese style.\n\nA lot of Han Chinese bannermen adopted Manchu names, which may have been motivated by associating with the elite. One Han Chinese bannerman named Cui Zhilu who knew Manchu had changed his name to the Manchu Arsai, and the emperor asked him how he came about his name. Chinese bannermen also adopted Manchu personal naming practices like giving numbers as personal names.\n\nChinese bannermen (Hanjun, or Han Bannermen) manchufied their last names by adding \"giya\" at the end. However, some Han Chinese bannermen like Zhao Erfeng, Zhao Erxun and Cao Xueqin did not use Manchu names. A lot of other Han Chinese bannermen used Manchufied names, one Han bannermen with a Manchu name of Deming also had a separate Chinese name, Zhang Deyi.\n\nWithin the Manchu banner companies, there were various Han Chinese and Mongol persons dispersed among them, and there were Mongol, Korean, Russian, and Tibetan companies in the Manchu Banners. The Manchu Banners had two main divisions between the higher ranking \"Old Manchus\" (Fo Manzhou, Fe Manju) made out of the main Jurchen tribes like the Jianzhou whom Nurhaci and Hong Taiji created the Manchu Banners from, and the lower ranking \"New Manchus\" (Chinese transliteration: 伊車滿洲. 衣車滿洲 Yiche Manzhou; Chinese translation:新滿洲 ;Manchu:Ice Manju) made out of other Tungusic and Mongolic tribes like the Daur, (Dawoer), Oroqen (Elunchun), Solun (Suolun), Hezhe, Kiakar (Kuyula), and Xibe (Xibo) from the northeast who were incorporated into the Manchu Banners by Shunzhi and Kangxi after the 1644 Qing invasion of Ming China, in order for them to fight for the Qing against the Russian Empire in the Amur River Basin.\n\nSince the British handover of Hong Kong to China in 1997, and increasingly since the mid-2000s when travel restrictions on Mainland Chinese citizens to Hong Kong eased, there has been increasing tension between the local Hong Kong population with the Chinese central government and the Mainland-origin population. While a Hong Kong identity has been present since the colonial period, it has become especially stronger and more pronounced over the last decade, with over 75% of Hong Kong residents identifying themselves as both \"Hong Kong citizens\" and \"Chinese citizens\", or simply as \"Hong Kong citizens\" solely. Furthermore, some youth population of Hong Kong do not even identify themselves as broadly, and ethnically, \"Chinese\". Less than a fifth of Hong Kongers now identify themselves as simply \"Chinese\".\n\nAs a British colony for over 150 years, the culture of Hong Kong is unique in its blending of Western and Chinese elements. This cultural difference has been emphasized and embraced by some to distinguish Hong Kong from mainland China.\n\nLanguage differences also play a major role in separating Hong Kong identity from mainland Chinese identity. While Mandarin is the official variety of Chinese in Mainland China, the regionally traditional Cantonese variant has long been used in Hong Kong. The increasing presence of Mandarin-speakers in the territory since 1997, and expectations of mainland Chinese for Hong Kong residents to speak Mandarin, has caused conflicts and defensive measures by citizens to protect Cantonese against the encroachment of Mandarin. Such actions include stigmatizing Mandarin as a language of communism, while Cantonese is perceived as a language of democracy, reflecting the political differences between Hong Kong and China. This political linguistic view has also spread among Overseas Chinese communities, the majority of which are historically Cantonese-speaking.\n\nThe lack of democratic development in Hong Kong has further eroded a sense of a Chinese identity. Under the one country, two systems policy agreed between the United Kingdom and China as a condition of Hong Kong's return, the territory is guaranteed the right to retain its free way of life for at least 50 years after 1997. However, increasing attempts from the Beijing government to curb democratic institutions and free speech, including the delay of eventual universal suffrage, have drawn continual protests and unrest among locals. This cumulated in the 2014 Hong Kong protests, when the Chinese Communist Party allowed Hong Kongers to vote for the territory's chief executive under the condition that Beijing first approves of the running candidates. The political crises have led to a strengthening of a local Hong Kong identity, with an independence movement beginning to take form as a result.\n\nFollowing the retrocession of Taiwan to the Republic of China in 1945, the Kuomintang-led government promoted a \"resinicization\" of the island's population, sponsoring Chinese calligraphy, traditional Chinese painting, folk art, and Chinese opera.\n\nDe-Sinicization occurred most rapidly between 1992 and 2005, according to a survey by the National Chengchi University about national identity in Taiwan. Identification as \"Chinese\" during this time dropped from 26.2% to 7.3%, \"Taiwanese\" identity increased from 17.3% to 46.5%, and identification as both Taiwanese and Chinese dropped from 45.4% to 42.0%. The autocratic administrations of Chiang Kai-shek and Chiang Ching Kuo claimed legitimacy as pan-Chinese leaders because the Republic of China's National Assembly was elected from all over China (in 1947), rather than just from Taiwan. However, the Lee Tenghui administration (1988–2000) began to desinicize the polity by abolishing this Assembly in 1991, to form a parliamentary body with a Taiwan-only electorate. In academia, De-Sinicization in the late 1980s and 1990s resulted in the replacement of the word \"China\" in the names of institutions to \"Taiwan\", creating the \"Taiwan Legal Association\", \"Taiwan Political Science Association\", \"Taiwan Sociological Association\", and \"Taiwan History Association\". As part of this movement, some Taiwanese historians downplayed the abuses of Japan's colonial administration, referring to it as \"rule\" rather than \"occupation\"; and the Taiwan History Association claimed that Taiwan's history was a part of Japanese, rather than Chinese, history.\n\nIn 2001, proponents of Taiwanization began characterizing De-Sinicization 2001 as a part of the movement to emphasize a local Taiwan-based identity in opposition to the political leadership that had historically identified with China and Chinese culture.\n\nDe-Sinicization accelerated under the Chen Shuibian administration (2000–2008), with the pro-Taiwan independence Democratic Progressive Party in control of the Executive Yuan. Chen's Minister of Education, Tu Chengsheng, directed the rewriting of high school history textbooks to abolish the \"remnants of greater Chinese consciousness\" (). This textbook De-Sinicization included the separation of Taiwanese history and Chinese history into separate volumes, a ban on the term \"mainland China\", and the portrayal of Chinese immigration to Taiwan during the Qing Dynasty as \"colonization\". Concurrently, Chen introduced the One Country on Each Side concept in 2002, which posited that China and Taiwan are separate countries, while ordering the addition of the words \"Issued in Taiwan\" on Republic of China passports. That same year, Tu's department chose to invent its own romanization system for Mandarin Chinese, Tongyong Pinyin, designed by a Taiwanese scholar rather than adopting the internationally well-known Hanyu Pinyin system developed by the People's Republic of China and used in other countries such as Singapore and Malaysia. In 2003, the government abolished the longstanding policy of using Mandarin as the sole language of government, which in practice promoted the second-largest language on the island, Taiwanese Hokkien, to fulfill many of the functions of a national language. From 2004, the map of the \"Republic of China\" no longer includes mainland China.\n\nFrom 2005, Chen's Executive Yuan also initiated the Taiwan Name Rectification Campaign, which sought to remove the words \"China\" or \"Chinese\" from public and private organizations. This included the renaming of state bodies such as Overseas Chinese Affairs Council (which became the \"Overseas Compatriot Affairs Council\"), persuading private organizations like China Airlines to change their name, and also the purging of references to mainland China in nearly 100 administrative laws. In 2006, Chen abolished the National Unification Council and its Guidelines for National Unification. In February 2007, Chen's government changed the name of Chunghwa Post (China Post) to Taiwan Post, Chinese Petroleum Company to \"CPC Corporation, Taiwan, and China Shipbuilding Corporation to \"CSBC Corporation, Taiwan\".\n\nThe name changing issue was a topic in the Republic of China presidential elections in Taiwan in March 2008. Former Taipei mayor Ma Ying-Jeou was elected as the President, whereupon he sought to reverse some of the De-Sinicization policies of Chen. On 1 August 2008, the postal service resolved to reverse the name change and restore the name \"Chunghwa Post\". As of 1 January 2009, Tongyong Pinyin was abolished by the government in favour of Hanyu Pinyin. On September 28, 2009, Ma celebrated the 2559th birthday of Confucius at the Taiwan Confucian Temple, which was built in 1665. And on January 1, 2011, President Ma entitled his New Year's address \"Building up Taiwan, Invigorating Chinese Heritage\", which stressed \"Chinese culture and virtues, such as benevolence, righteousness, filial devotion, respect for teachers, kindness, and simplicity\".\n\nHoa people, or ethnic Chinese in Vietnam, form a significant minority in the country with a presence dating to the Ming Dynasty in the 15th century. Chinese immigration to Vietnam peaked during the late 19th to mid-20th century, when China experienced political turmoil and life quality stagnation, as well the communist takeover in 1949 and business incentives provided by the French colonial government. The Hoa largely integrated well, forming a large portion of the Vietnam's middle and upper class and playing an important role in its economy. In addition to their native dialects and/or Cantonese (the \"lingua franca\" of Chinese in Southeast Asia), Vietnamese proficiency rates among the Hoa were extremely high and were the largest among Vietnam's ethnic minority groups. Most Hoa eventually considered themselves as Vietnamese first and then Chinese, with those with origins not from mainland China identifying themselves to their specific place, such as \"Hong Kong Chinese\" or \"Macau Chinese\", especially in South Vietnam.\n\nFollowing the Fall of Saigon and communist reunification of the Vietnam, most Hoa in the former South Vietnam opted to immigrate to other countries, especially the United States, France and Australia, rather than communist-controlled China. Only ethnic Chinese persecuted by government in northern Vietnam chose to immigrate back to China, especially to Guangxi Province. Overseas Chinese with origins from Vietnam usually interact with both local Chinese and Vietnamese communities. However, the presence of non-Cantonese speaking and/or mainland Chinese-descented communities results in the community identifying itself with the Vietnamese community instead, as in the case with the Chinese community in France.\n\nUsing Hanja, or Chinese characters, was banned in 1949 in North Korea by Kim Il-sung. Hangul was made the official script of the Korean language, replacing Hanja, and Hanja is not required to be learned until high school in South Korea. Some commentators also take the former Seoul city mayor Lee Myung-bak's move to change Seoul's official Chinese name from \"Hancheng\" () to Shou'er () in 2005 as a model of De-Sinicization. The previous name, pronounced Hànchéng in Chinese and Hanseong in Korean, is an old name for Seoul, literally meaning \"Han Castle City\", but can be misinterpreted as \"Han Chinese City\". The new name Shou'er carried no such connotation, and was close in both sound and meaning to \"Seoul\", which, uniquely among Korean place names, does not have a Sino-Korean name. See also Names of Seoul.\n\nThe Dungans of Kyrgyzstan represent a less conscious process of De-Sinicization, during which, over the course of a little more than a century (since the Hui Minorities' War), a Hui Chinese population became alienated from the literary tradition and local culture of Shaanxi and Gansu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "879541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=879541", "title": "Encyclopædia Perthensis", "text": "Encyclopædia Perthensis\n\nThe Encyclopædia Perthensis was a publishing project around the Morison Press in Perth, Scotland undertaken in the 1790s, with the involvement of James Morison. Morison went into partnership with Colin Mitchel and Co.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia\" was issued in weekly installments from 1796 to 1806, then republished in a 23 volume set in 1806. The first edition had the subtitle \"Universal dictionary of knowledge, collected from every source and intended to supersede the use of all other English books of reference.\" \n\nLike the first edition, the second was originally issued in weekly installments. These were issued from 1807 to 1816. In the last year the encyclopedia was issued as a 24 volume set, with the last volume being a supplement to the original text. The subtitle was changed to \"Universal dictionary of the arts, sciences, literature, &c. intended to supersede the use of other books of reference.\"\n\nMost of the text was taken verbatim from the third edition of \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". The first edition includes a rare early plan of Washington D.C. It had twenty-three 8vo volumes with plates and maps. The main contributor and editor was Alexander Aitchison, member of the Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh.\nThe majority of the 370 plates and maps claimed by the second edition, where credited, are signed T Clerk Sculpt. Edinr. Two other artists, J Stewart and J Frasier, have signed plates. Though 370 plates and maps are claimed on the title pages, there are only directions for the placement of 348 plates, of which only one could be described as a map, a plan of Washington, D.C. in 1800 by Andrew Ellicott.\n\n"}
{"id": "1279709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1279709", "title": "FIGS", "text": "FIGS\n\nFIGS is an acronym for French, Italian, German, Spanish or France, Italy, Germany, Spain.\n\nThese are usually the first four languages chosen to localize products into when a company enters the European market.\n\nFrance, Italy, Germany and Spain are the four most populous mainland states of the European Union, and four of the five largest EU economies (the other being the United Kingdom). France, Italy and West Germany were founder states of the EU.\n\n"}
{"id": "8736654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8736654", "title": "Food Science and Technology Abstracts", "text": "Food Science and Technology Abstracts\n\nFSTA, also known as FSTA – Food Science and Technology Abstracts, is produced by IFIS Publishing.\n\nFSTA is a bibliographic abstracting and indexing (A&I) database of scientific and technological research and information relating to food, beverages, and nutrition. It contains over 1,300,000 indexed records, with full-text links where available.\n\nThe database is used by researchers, industry practitioners, and students.\n\nIn addition to over 5,475 active and historical journals, FSTA indexes books, trade publications, reviews, conference proceedings, reports, patents, and standards, producing 22,675 sources overall. Updated weekly, its records are indexed against IFIS' thesaurus, which contains over 12,346 food science keywords, curated and structured into food-centric hierarchies.\n\nWith records dating back to 1969, FSTA contains information sources in 29 languages, sourced from publishers in over 60 countries.\n\nCoverage includes all major commodities in the food and beverage industry, related applied and pure sciences, pet foods, food psychology, food economics, food safety, and more.\n\nFSTA can be accessed through EBSCOhost, Ovid, Proquest Dialog, STN and Web of Science.\n\n"}
{"id": "31805771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31805771", "title": "Frick Art Reference Library Photoarchive", "text": "Frick Art Reference Library Photoarchive\n\nThe Frick Art Reference Library Photoarchive is a study collection of more than one million photographic reproductions of works of art from the fourth to the mid-twentieth century by over 40,000 artists trained in the Western tradition located in the Frick Art Reference Library on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. It was founded in 1920 by Helen Clay Frick, the daughter of industrialist Henry Clay Frick, to facilitate object-oriented research. The documentation it offers records the essential elements of the biography of the work of art: the artist, title, present owner, as well as historical information such as changes of attribution, ownership and condition, all of which are essential for the study of the history of art.\n\nUntil the 1920s, reproductions were only rarely included in art historical texts. The Frick’s Photoarchive was established to complement this growing body of literature. Although many scholars had personal image libraries, the Frick Art Reference Library was one of the first institutions to afford public access to a consolidated collection of photographs, thus enabling a broad range of researchers to study and evaluate works of art in an entirely new way. The establishment of similar Art Historical Photo Archives in Europe and the United States soon followed.\n\nIn planning the Photoarchive, Helen Clay Frick regularly consulted with Sir Robert Witt, whose personal library of reproductions in London was her single most important source of inspiration. She also turned to American and European scholars, including Fiske Kimball and Bernard Berenson. As early as 1922, Frick organized photographic expeditions to capture images of significant and rarely reproduced works of art in Europe and the United States. The resulting collection of roughly 60,000 original negatives, which in many cases document works of art that have subsequently been altered, lost or destroyed, has become one of the library’s most treasured resources.\n\nTo facilitate object-oriented research, the library actively acquires multiple photographs of the same work of art to document changes in condition and appearance over time. Photographs of preparatory drawings, versions, copies, pastiches, and forgeries—materials often overlooked in the literature—are also collected. Many of the photographs in the collection are rare images of works that have since been lost, stolen, or destroyed.\n\nThe library continues to acquire many photographs and digital images each year, focusing on unpublished or little-known works. Staff photoarchivists work to maintain current information on changes of attribution and location, often relying on information provided by art researchers.\n\nAll 40,000 artists represented in the Photoarchive and documentation of over 200,000 works of art are accessible through NYARC Discovery, the catalog of the New York Art Resources Consortium (NYARC). \n\nThe Frick Digital Collections provides access to approximately 200,000 high-resolution digital images for 75,000 works of art represented in the Photoarchive. Additionally, digital images of nearly half of the library’s 55,000 original negatives are published online through the ARTstor digital library.\n\nPhotoarchive materials can be consulted on site at the Frick Art Reference Library during regular business hours. Over 420,000 of the photographs and their accompanying documentation are indexed by artist name, subject, and owner in an on-site card catalog.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13151", "title": "Gilgamesh", "text": "Gilgamesh\n\nGilgamesh was a historical king of the Sumerian city-state of Uruk, a major hero in ancient Mesopotamian mythology, and the protagonist of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", an epic poem written in Akkadian during the late second millennium BC. He probably ruled sometime between 2800 and 2500 BC and was posthumously deified. He became a major figure in Sumerian legends during the Third Dynasty of Ur ( 2112 – 2004 BC). Tales of Gilgamesh's legendary exploits are narrated in five surviving Sumerian poems. The earliest of these is probably \"Gilgamesh, Enkidu, and the Netherworld\", in which Gilgamesh comes to the aid of the goddess Inanna and drives away the creatures infesting her \"huluppu\" tree. She gives him two unknown objects called a \"mikku\" and a \"pikku\", which he loses. After Enkidu's death, his shade tells Gilgamesh about the bleak conditions in the Underworld. The poem \"Gilgamesh and Agga\" describes Gilgamesh's revolt against his overlord King Agga. Other Sumerian poems relate Gilgamesh's defeat of the ogre Huwawa and the Bull of Heaven and a fifth, poorly preserved one apparently describes his death and funeral.\n\nIn later Babylonian times, these stories began to be woven into a connected narrative. The standard Akkadian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" was composed by a scribe named Sîn-lēqi-unninni, probably during the Middle Babylonian Period ( 1600 – 1155 BC), based on much older source material. In the epic, Gilgamesh is a demigod of superhuman strength who befriends the wildman Enkidu. Together, they go on adventures, defeating Humbaba (the East Semitic name for Huwawa) and the Bull of Heaven, who, in the epic, is sent to attack them by Ishtar (the East Semitic equivalent of Inanna) after Gilgamesh rejects her offer for him to become her consort. After Enkidu dies of a disease sent as punishment from the gods, Gilgamesh becomes afraid of his own death, and visits the sage Utnapishtim, the survivor of the Great Flood, hoping to find immortality. Gilgamesh repeatedly fails the trials set before him and returns home to Uruk, realizing that immortality is beyond his reach.\n\nMost classical historians agree that the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" exerted substantial influence on both the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", two epic poems written in ancient Greek during the eighth century BC. The story of Gilgamesh's birth is described in a second-century AD anecdote from \"On the Nature of Animals\" by the Greek writer Aelian. Aelian relates that Gilgamesh's grandfather kept his mother under guard to prevent her from becoming pregnant, because he had been told by an oracle that his grandson would overthrow him. She became pregnant and the guards threw the child off a tower, but an eagle rescued him mid-fall and delivered him safely to an orchard, where he was raised by the gardener. The \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" was rediscovered in the Library of Ashurbanipal in 1849. After being translated in the early 1870s, it caused widespread controversy due to similarities between portions of it and the Hebrew Bible. Gilgamesh remained mostly obscure until the mid-twentieth century, but, since the late twentieth-century, he has become an increasingly prominent figure in modern culture.\n\nMost historians generally agree that Gilgamesh was a historical king of the Sumerian city-state of Uruk, who probably ruled sometime during the early part of the Early Dynastic Period ( 2900 – 2350 BC). Stephanie Dalley, a scholar of the ancient Near East, states that \"precise dates cannot be given for the lifetime of Gilgamesh, but they are generally agreed to lie between 2800 and 2500 BC.\" No contemporary mention of Gilgamesh has yet been discovered, but the 1955 discovery of the Tummal Inscription, a thirty-four-line historiographic text written during the reign of Ishbi-Erra ( 1953 – 1920 BC), has cast considerable light on his reign. The inscription credits Gilgamesh with building the walls of Uruk. Lines eleven through fifteen of the inscription read:\n<poem>\nFor a second time, the Tummal fell into ruin,\nGilgamesh built the Numunburra of the House of Enlil.\nUr-lugal, the son of Gilgamesh,\nMade the Tummal pre-eminent,\nBrought Ninlil to the Tummal.\n</poem>\nGilgamesh is also referred to as a king by King Enmebaragesi of Kish, a known historical figure who may have lived near Gilgamesh's lifetime. Furthermore, Gilgamesh is listed as one of the kings of Uruk by the Sumerian King List. Fragments of an epic text found in Me-Turan (modern Tell Haddad) relate that at the end of his life Gilgamesh was buried under the river bed. The people of Uruk diverted the flow of the Euphrates passing Uruk for the purpose of burying the dead king within the river bed.\n\nIt is certain that, during the later Early Dynastic Period, Gilgamesh was worshipped as a god at various locations across Sumer. In the twenty-first century BC, Utu-hengal, the king of Uruk, adopted Gilgamesh as his patron deity. The kings of the Third Dynasty of Ur ( 2112 – 2004 BC) were especially fond of Gilgamesh, calling him their \"divine brother\" and \"friend\". King Shulgi of Ur (2029 – 1982 BC) declared himself the son of Lugalbanda and Ninsun and the brother of Gilgamesh. Over the centuries, there may have been a gradual accretion of stories about Gilgamesh, some possibly derived from the real lives of other historical figures, such as Gudea, the Second Dynasty ruler of Lagash (2144–2124 BC). Prayers inscribed in clay tablets address Gilgamesh as a judge of the dead in the Underworld.\n\nDuring this period, a large number of myths and legends developed surrounding Gilgamesh. Five independent Sumerian poems narrating various exploits of Gilgamesh have survived to the present. Gilgamesh's first appearance in literature is probably in the Sumerian poem \"Gilgamesh, Enkidu, and the Netherworld\". The narrative begins with a \"huluppu\" tree—perhaps, according to the Sumerologist Samuel Noah Kramer, a willow, growing on the banks of the river Euphrates. The goddess Inanna moves the tree to her garden in Uruk with the intention to carve it into a throne once it is fully grown. The tree grows and matures, but the serpent \"who knows no charm,\" the \"Anzû\"-bird, and \"Lilitu\", the Sumerian forerunner to the Lilith of Jewish folklore, all take up residence within the tree, causing Inanna to cry with sorrow. Gilgamesh, who in this story is portrayed as Inanna's brother, comes along and slays the serpent, causing the \"Anzû\"-bird and Lilitu to flee. Gilgamesh's companions chop down the tree and carve its wood into a bed and a throne, which they give to Inanna. Inanna responds by fashioning a \"pikku\" and a \"mikku\" (probably a drum and drumsticks respectively, although the exact identifications are uncertain), which she gives to Gilgamesh as a reward for his heroism. Gilgamesh loses the \"pikku\" and \"mikku\" and asks who will retrieve them. Enkidu descends to the Underworld to find them, but disobeys the strict laws of the Underworld and is therefore required to remain there forever. The remaining portion of the poem is a dialogue in which Gilgamesh asks the shade of Enkidu questions about the Underworld.\n\n\"Gilgamesh and Agga\" describes Gilgamesh's successful revolt against his overlord Agga, the king of the city-state of Kish. \"Gilgamesh and Huwawa\" describes how Gilgamesh and his servant Enkidu, aided by the help of fifty volunteers from Uruk, defeat the monster Huwawa, an ogre appointed by the god Enlil, the ruler of the gods, as the guardian of the Cedar Forest. Huwawa has the \"teeth of a dragon, the face of a lion, a roar like the stormflood, a mouth like fire; his breath [is] death; no one [can] escape him.\" Gilgamesh and his fifty-one companions hew through seven cedar trees to reach Huwawa's chamber, where they corner him. Gilgamesh strikes Huwawa, loosening his teeth; Huwawa attempts to appeal for mercy to Gilgamesh and the sun-god Utu, but the heroes behead him anyway. In the end, the gods condemn Enkidu to death due to his lack of compassion for Huwawa.\n\nIn \"Gilgamesh and the Bull of Heaven\", Gilgamesh and Enkidu slay the Bull of Heaven, who has been sent to attack them by the goddess Inanna. The plot of this poem differs substantially from the corresponding scene in the later Akkadian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\". In the Sumerian poem, Inanna does not seem to ask Gilgamesh to become her consort as she does in the later Akkadian epic. Furthermore, while she is coercing her father An to give her the Bull of Heaven, rather than threatening to raise the dead to eat the living as she does in the later epic, she merely threatens to let out a \"cry\" that will reach the earth. A poem known as the \"Death of Gilgamesh\" is very poorly preserved, but appears to describe a major state funeral followed by the arrival of the deceased in the Underworld. It is possible that the modern scholars who gave the poem its title may have misinterpreted it, and the poem may actually be about the death of Enkidu.\n\nEventually, according to Kramer, \"Gilgamesh became the hero par excellence of the ancient world—an adventurous, brave, but tragic figure symbolizing man's vain but endless drive for fame, glory, and immortality\". By the Old Babylonian Period ( 1830 – 1531 BC), stories of Gilgamesh's legendary exploits had been woven into one or several long epics. The \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", the most complete account of Gilgamesh's adventures, was composed in Akkadian during the Middle Babylonian Period ( 1600 — 1155 BC) by a scribe named Sîn-lēqi-unninni. The most complete surviving version of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" is recorded on a set of twelve clay tablets dating to the seventh century BC, found in the Library of Ashurbanipal in the Assyrian capital of Nineveh. The epic survives only in a fragmentary form, with many pieces of it missing or damaged. Some scholars and translators choose to supplement the missing parts of the epic with material from the earlier Sumerian poems or from other versions of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" found at other sites throughout the Near East.\n\nIn the epic, Gilgamesh is introduced as \"two thirds divine and one third mortal\". At the beginning of the poem, Gilgamesh is described as a brutal, oppressive ruler. This is usually interpreted to mean either that he compels all his subjects to engage in forced labor or that he sexually oppresses all his subjects. As punishment for Gilgamesh's cruelty, the god Anu creates the wildman Enkidu. After being tamed by a prostitute named Shamhat, Enkidu travels to Uruk to confront Gilgamesh. In the second tablet, the two men wrestle and, although Gilgamesh wins the match in the end, he is so impressed by his opponent's strength and tenacity that they become close friends. In the earlier Sumerian texts, Enkidu is Gilgamesh's servant, but, in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", they are companions of equal standing.\n\nIn tablets III through IV, Gilgamesh and Enkidu travel to the Cedar Forest, which is guarded by Humbaba (the Akkadian name for Huwawa). The heroes cross the seven mountains to the Cedar Forest, where they begin chopping down trees. Confronted by Humbaba, Gilgamesh panics and prays to Shamash (the East Semitic name for Utu), who blows eight winds in Humbaba's eyes, blinding him. Humbaba begs for mercy, but the heroes decapitate him regardless. Tablet VI begins with Gilgamesh returning to Uruk, where Ishtar (the Akkadian name for Inanna) comes to him and demands him to become her consort. Gilgamesh repudiates her, insisting that she has mistreated all her former lovers. In revenge, Ishtar goes to her father Anu and demands that he give her the Bull of Heaven, which she sends to attack Gilgamesh. Gilgamesh and Enkidu kill the Bull and offer its heart to Shamash. While Gilgamesh and Enkidu are resting, Ishtar stands up on the walls of Uruk and curses Gilgamesh. Enkidu tears off the Bull's right thigh and throws it in Ishtar's face, saying, \"If I could lay my hands on you, it is this I should do to you, and lash your entrails to your side.\" Ishtar calls together \"the crimped courtesans, prostitutes and harlots\" and orders them to mourn for the Bull of Heaven. Meanwhile, Gilgamesh holds a celebration over the Bull of Heaven's defeat.\n\nTablet VII begins with Enkidu recounting a dream in which he saw Anu, Ea, and Shamash declare that either Gilgamesh or Enkidu must die as punishment for having slain the Bull of Heaven. They choose Enkidu and Enkidu soon grows sick. He has a dream of the Underworld and then he dies. Tablet VIII describes Gilgamesh's inconsolable grief over his friend's death and the details of Enkidu's funeral. Tablets IX through XI relate how Gilgamesh, driven by grief and fear of his own mortality, travels a great distance and overcomes many obstacles to find the home of Utnapishtim, the sole survivor of the Great Flood, who was rewarded with immortality by the gods.\n\nThe journey to Utnapishtim involves a series of episodic challenges, which probably originated as major independent adventures, but, in the epic, they are reduced to what Joseph Eddy Fontenrose calls \"fairly harmless incidents.\" First, Gilgamesh encounters and slays lions in the mountain pass. Upon reaching the mountain of Mashu, Gilgamesh encounters a scorpion man and his wife; their bodies flash with terrifying radiance, but, once Gilgamesh tells them his purpose, they allow him to pass. Gilgamesh wanders through darkness for twelve days before he finally comes into the light. He finds a beautiful garden by the sea in which he meets Siduri, the divine barmaid. At first she tries to prevent Gilgamesh from entering the garden, but later she instead attempts to persuade him to accept death as inevitable and not journey beyond the waters. When Gilgamesh refuses to do this, she directs him to Urshanabi, the ferryman of the gods, who ferries Gilgamesh across the sea to Utanpishtim's homeland. When Gilgamesh finally arrives at Utnapishtim's home, Utnapishtim tells Gilgamesh that, to become immortal, he must defy sleep. Gilgamesh fails to do this and falls asleep for seven days without waking.\n\nNext, Utnapishtim tells him that, even if he cannot obtain immortality, he can restore his youth using a plant with the power of rejuvenation. Gilgamesh takes the plant, but leaves it on the shore while swimming and a snake steals it, explaining why snakes are able to shed their skins. Despondent at this loss, Gilgamesh returns to Uruk, and shows his city to the ferryman Urshanabi. It is at that this point that the epic stops being a coherent narrative. Tablet XII is an appendix corresponding to the Sumerian poem of \"Gilgamesh, Enkidu and the Netherworld\" describing the loss of the \"pikku\" and \"mikku\". Numerous elements within this narrative reveal lack of continuity with the earlier portions of the epic. At the beginning of Tablet XII, Enkidu is still alive, despite having previously died in Tablet VII, and Gilgamesh is kind to Ishtar, despite the violent rivalry between them displayed in Tablet VI. Also, while most of the parts of the epic are free adaptations of their respective Sumerian predecessors, Tablet XII is a literal, word-for-word translation of the last part of \"Gilgamesh, Enkidu, and the Netherworld\". For these reasons, scholars conclude this narrative was probably relegated to the end of the epic because it did not fit the larger narrative. In it, Gilgamesh sees a vision of Enkidu's ghost, who promises to recover the lost items and describes to his friend the abysmal condition of the Underworld.\n\nAlthough stories about Gilgamesh were wildly popular throughout ancient Mesopotamia, authentic representations of him in ancient art are extremely rare. Popular works often identify depictions of a hero with long hair, containing four or six curls, as representations of Gilgamesh, but this identification is known to be incorrect. A few genuine ancient Mesopotamian representations of Gilgamesh do exist, however. These representations are mostly found on clay plaques and cylinder seals. Generally, it is only possible to identify a figure shown in art as Gilgamesh if the artistic work in question clearly depicts a scene from the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" itself. One set of representations of Gilgamesh is found in scenes of two heroes fighting a demonic giant, certainly Humbaba. Another set is found in scenes showing a similar pair of heroes confronting a giant, winged bull, certainly the Bull of Heaven.\n\nThe \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" exerted substantial influence on the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", two epic poems written in ancient Greek during the eighth century BC. According to Barry B. Powell, an American classical scholar, early Greeks were probably exposed to Mesopotamian oral traditions through their extensive connections to the civilizations of the ancient Near East and this exposure resulted in the similarities that are seen between the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" and the Homeric epics. Walter Burkert, a German classicist, observes that the scene in Tablet VI of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" in which Gilgamesh rejects Ishtar's advances and she complains before her mother Antu, but is mildly rebuked by her father Anu, is directly paralleled in Book V of the \"Iliad\". In this scene, Aphrodite, the later Greek adaptation of Ishtar, is wounded by the hero Diomedes and flees to Mount Olympus, where she cries to her mother Dione and is mildly rebuked by her father Zeus.\n\nPowell observes that the opening lines of the \"Odyssey\" seem to echo the opening lines of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\". The storyline of the \"Odyssey\" likewise bears numerous similarities to that of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\". Both Gilgamesh and Odysseus encounter a woman who can turn men into animals: Ishtar (for Gilgamesh) and Circe (for Odysseus). In the \"Odyssey\", Odysseus blinds a giant Cyclops named Polyphemus, an incident which bears similarities to Gilgamesh's slaying of Humbaba in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\". Both Gilgamesh and Odysseus visit the Underworld and both find themselves unhappy whilst living in an otherworldly paradise in the presence of an attractive woman: Siduri (for Gilgamesh) and Calypso (for Odysseus). Finally, both heroes have an opportunity for immortality but miss it (Gilgamesh when he loses the plant, and Odysseus when he leaves Calypso's island).\n\nIn the Qumran scroll known as \"Book of Giants\" (c. 100 BC) the names of Gilgamesh and Humbaba appear as two of the antediluvian giants, rendered (in consonantal form) as \"glgmš\" and \"ḩwbbyš\". This same text was later used in the Middle East by the Manichaean sects, and the Arabic form \"Gilgamish\"/\"Jiljamish\" survives as the name of a demon according to the Egyptian cleric Al-Suyuti ( 1500).\n\nThe story of Gilgamesh's birth is not recorded in any extant Sumerian or Akkadian text, but a version of it is described in \"De Natura Animalium\" (\"On the Nature of Animals\") 12.21, a commonplace book which was written in Greek sometime around 200 AD by the Hellenized Roman orator Aelian. According to Aelian's story, an oracle told King Seuechoros of the Babylonians that his grandson Gilgamos would overthrow him. To prevent this, Seuechoros kept his only daughter under close guard at the Acropolis of the city of Babylon, but she became pregnant nonetheless. Fearing the king's wrath, the guards hurled the infant off the top of a tall tower. An eagle rescued the boy in midflight and carried him to an orchard, where it carefully set him down. The caretaker of the orchard found the boy and raised him, naming him \"Gilgamos\" (Γίλγαμος). Eventually, Gilgamos returned to Babylon and overthrew his grandfather, proclaiming himself king. The birth narrative described by Aelian is in the same tradition as other Near Eastern birth legends, such as those of Sargon, Moses, and Cyrus. Theodore Bar Konai (c. AD 600), writing in Syriac, also mentions a king \"Gligmos\", \"Gmigmos\" or \"Gamigos\" as last of a line of twelve kings who were contemporaneous with the patriarchs from Peleg to Abraham; this occurrence is also considered a vestige of Gilgamesh's former memory.\n\nThe Akkadian text of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" was first discovered in 1849 AD by the English archaeologist Austen Henry Layard in the Library of Ashurbanipal at Nineveh. Layard was seeking evidence to confirm the historicity of the events described in the Christian Old Testament, which, at the time, was believed to contain the oldest texts in the world. Instead, his excavations and those of others after him revealed the existence of much older Mesopotamian texts and showed that many of the stories in the Old Testament may actually be derived from earlier myths told throughout the ancient Near East. The first translation of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" was produced in the early 1870s by George Smith, a scholar at the British Museum, who published the Flood story from Tablet XI in 1880 under the title \"The Chaldean Account of Genesis\". Gilgamesh's name was originally misread as \"Izdubar\".\n\nEarly interest in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" was almost exclusively on account of the flood story from Tablet XI. The flood story attracted enormous public attention and drew widespread scholarly controversy, while the rest of the epic was largely ignored. Most attention towards the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries came from German-speaking countries, where controversy raged over the relationship between \"Babel und Bibel\" (\"Babylon and Bible\"). In January 1902, the German Assyriologist Friedrich Delitzsch gave a lecture at the Sing-Akademie zu Berlin in front of the Kaiser and his wife, in which he argued that the Flood story in the Book of Genesis was directly copied off the one in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\". Delitzsch's lecture was so controversial that, by September 1903, he had managed to collect 1,350 short articles from newspapers and journals, over 300 longer ones, and twenty-eight pamphlets, all written in response to this lecture, as well as another lecture about the relationship between the Code of Hammurabi and the Law of Moses in the Torah. These articles were overwhelmingly critical of Delitzsch. The Kaiser distanced himself from Delitzsch and his radical views and, in fall of 1904, Delitzsch was forced to give his third lecture in Cologne and Frankfurt am Main rather than in Berlin. The putative relationship between the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" and the Hebrew Bible later became a major part of Delitzsch's argument in his 1920-21 book \"Die große Täuschung\" (\"The Great Deception\") that the Hebrew Bible was irredeemably \"contaminated\" by Babylonian influence and that only by eliminating the human Old Testament entirely could Christians finally believe in the true, Aryan message of the New Testament.\n\nThe first modern literary adaptation of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" was \"Ishtar and Izdubar\" (1884) by Leonidas Le Cenci Hamilton, an American lawyer and businessman. Hamilton had rudimentary knowledge of Akkadian, which he had learned from Archibald Sayce's 1872 \"Assyrian Grammar for Comparative Purposes\". Hamilton's book relied heavily on Smith's translation of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", but also made major changes. For instance, Hamilton omitted the famous flood story entirely and instead focused on the romantic relationship between Ishtar and Gilgamesh. \"Ishtar and Izdubar\" expanded the original roughly 3,000 lines of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" to roughly 6,000 lines of rhyming couplets grouped into forty-eight cantos. Hamilton significantly altered most of the characters and introduced entirely new episodes not found in the original epic. Significantly influenced by Edward FitzGerald's \"Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam\" and Edwin Arnold's \"The Light of Asia\", Hamilton's characters dress more like nineteenth-century Turks than ancient Babylonians. Hamilton also changed the tone of the epic from the \"grim realism\" and \"ironic tragedy\" of the original to a \"cheery optimism\" filled with \"the sweet strains of love and harmony\".\n\nIn his 1904 book \"Das Alte Testament im Lichte des alten Orients\", the German Assyriologist Alfred Jeremias equated Gilgamesh with the king Nimrod from the Book of Genesis and argued that Gilgamesh's strength must come from his hair, like the hero Samson in the Book of Judges, and that he must have performed Twelve Labors like the hero Heracles in Greek mythology. In his 1906 book \"Das Gilgamesch-Epos in der Weltliteratur\", the Orientalist Peter Jensen declared that the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" was the source behind nearly all the stories in the Old Testament, arguing that Moses is \"the Gilgamesh of Exodus who saves the children of Israel from precisely the same situation faced by the inhabitants of Erech at the beginning of the Babylonian epic.\" He then proceeded to argue that Abraham, Isaac, Samson, David, and various other biblical figures are all nothing more than exact copies of Gilgamesh. Finally, he declared that even Jesus is \"nothing but an Israelite Gilgamesh. Nothing but an adjunct to Abraham, Moses, and countless other figures in the saga.\" This ideology became known as Panbabylonianism and was almost immediately rejected by mainstream scholars. The most stalwart critics of Panbabylonianism were those associated with the emerging \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\". Hermann Gunkel dismissed most of Jensen's purported parallels between Gilgamesh and biblical figures as mere baseless sensationalism. He concluded that Jensen and other Assyriologists like him had failed to understand the complexities of Old Testament scholarship and had confused scholars with \"conspicuous mistakes and remarkable aberrations\".\n\nIn English-speaking countries, the prevailing scholarly interpretation during the early twentieth century was one originally proposed by Sir Henry Rawlinson, 1st Baronet, which held that Gilgamesh is a \"solar hero\", whose actions represent the movements of the sun, and that the twelve tablets of his epic represent the twelve signs of the Babylonian zodiac. The German psychologist Sigmund Freud, drawing on the theories of James George Frazer and Paul Ehrenreich, interpreted Gilgamesh and Eabani (the earlier misreading for \"Enkidu\") as representing \"man\" and \"crude sensibility\" respectively. He compared them to other brother-figures in world mythology, remarking, \"One is always weaker than the other and dies sooner. In Gilgamesh this ages-old motif of the unequal pair of brothers served to represent the relationship between a man and his libido.\" He also saw Enkidu as representing the placenta, the \"weaker twin\" who dies shortly after birth. Freud's friend and pupil Carl Jung frequently discusses Gilgamesh in his early work \"Symbole der Wandlung\" (1911-1912). He, for instance, cites Ishtar's sexual attraction to Gilgamesh as an example of the mother's incestuous desire for her son, Humbaba as an example of an oppressive father-figure whom Gilgamesh must overcome, and Gilgamesh himself as an example of a man who forgets his dependence on the unconscious and is punished by the \"gods\", who represent it.\n\nIn the years following World War II, Gilgamesh, formerly an obscure figure known only by a few scholars, gradually became increasingly popular with modern audiences. The \"Epic of Gilgamesh\"'s existential themes made it particularly appealing to German authors in the years following the war. In his 1947 existentialist novel \"Die Stadt hinter dem Strom\", the German novelist Hermann Kasack adapted elements of the epic into a metaphor for the aftermath of the destruction of World War II in Germany, portraying the bombed-out city of Hamburg as resembling the frightening Underworld seen by Enkidu in his dream. In Hans Henny Jahnn's \"magnum opus\" \"River without Shores\" (1949-1950), the middle section of the trilogy centers around a composer whose twenty-year-long homoerotic relationship with a friend mirrors that of Gilgamesh with Enkidu and whose masterpiece turns out to be a symphony about Gilgamesh.\n\n\"The Quest of Gilgamesh\", a 1953 radio play by Douglas Geoffrey Bridson, helped popularize the epic in Britain. In the United States, Charles Olson praised the epic in his poems and essays and Gregory Corso believed that it contained ancient virtues capable of curing what he viewed as modern moral degeneracy. The 1966 postfigurative novel \"Gilgamesch\" by Guido Bachmann became a classic of German \"queer literature\" and set a decades-long international literary trend of portraying Gilgamesh and Enkidu as homosexual lovers. This trend proved so popular that the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" itself is included in \"The Columbia Anthology of Gay Literature\" (1998) as a major early work of that genre. In the 1970s and 1980s, feminist literary critics analyzed the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" as showing evidence for a transition from the original matriarchy of all humanity to modern patriarchy. As the Green Movement expanded in Europe, Gilgamesh's story began to be seen through an environmentalist lens, with Enkidu's death symbolizing man's separation from nature.\n\nTheodore Ziolkowski, a scholar of modern literature, states, that \"unlike most other figures from myth, literature, and history, Gilgamesh has established himself as an autonomous entity or simply a name, often independent of the epic context in which he originally became known. (As analogous examples one might think, for instance, of the Minotaur or Frankenstein's monster.)\" The \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" has been translated into many major world languages and has become a staple of American world literature classes. Many contemporary authors and novelists have drawn inspiration from it, including an American avant-garde theater collective called \"The Gilgamesh Group\" and Joan London in her novel \"Gilgamesh\" (2001). \"The Great American Novel\" (1973) by Philip Roth features a character named \"Gil Gamesh\", who is the star pitcher of a fictional 1930s baseball team called the \"Patriot League\". Believing that he can never lose, Gil Gamesh throws a violent temper tantrum when an umpire goes against him and he is subsequently banished from baseball. He flees to the Soviet Union, where he is trained as a spy against the United States. Gil Gamesh reappears late in the novel as one of Joseph Stalin's spies and gives what American literary historian David Damrosch calls \"an eerily casual description of his interrogation training in Soviet Russia.\" In 2000, a modern statue of Gilgamesh by the Assyrian sculptor Lewis Batros was unveiled at the University of Sydney in Australia.\n\nStarting in the late twentieth century, the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" began to be read again in Iraq. Saddam Hussein, the former President of Iraq, had a lifelong fascination with Gilgamesh. Hussein's first novel \"Zabibah and the King\" (2000) is an allegory for the Gulf War set in ancient Assyria that blends elements of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" and the \"One Thousand and One Nights\". Like Gilgamesh, the king at the beginning of the novel is a brutal tyrant who misuses his power and oppresses his people, but, through the aid of a commoner woman named Zabibah, he grows into a more just ruler. When the United States pressured Hussein to step down in February 2003, Hussein gave a speech to a group of his generals posing the idea in a positive light by comparing himself to the epic hero.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46500442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46500442", "title": "Gleimhaus", "text": "Gleimhaus\n\nThe Gleimhaus is one of the oldest literary museums in Germany. It was set up in Halberstadt in 1862 in the former home of the poet Johann Wilhelm Ludwig Gleim (1719–1803).\n\n"}
{"id": "11545876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11545876", "title": "Incunabula Short Title Catalogue", "text": "Incunabula Short Title Catalogue\n\nThe Incunabula Short Title Catalogue (ISTC) is an electronic bibliographic database maintained by the British Library which seeks to catalogue all known incunabula. The database lists books by individual editions, recording standard bibliographic details for each edition as well as giving a brief census of known copies, organised by location. It currently holds records of over 30,000 editions.\n\nPrevious efforts to comprehensively catalog 15th century printing include Georg Wolfgang Panzer's \"Annales Typographici ab Artis Inventae Origine ad Annum MD\" (1793–97) and Ludwig Hain's \"Repertorium Bibliographicum\" (1822). Hain's work was later supplemented by Copinger's \"Supplement\" and Reichling's \"Appendices\", which would pave the way for the \"Gesamtkatalog der Wiegendrucke\" (1925). The \"Gesamtkatalog der Wiegendrucke\" (\"GW\") was the most comprehensive catalog of incunables to date (and still offers more in-depth information than ISTC), but in recent decades work on the catalog has slowed to such a degree that the goal of cataloging all extant incunables under the \"GW\"'s system is indefinitely far-off.\n\nThe ISTC was created to establish a system of incunable cataloging that was simple enough to be expanded quickly, bringing the goal of a complete incunable catalog back into focus. Furthermore, the ISTC would use standardized entries that could be entered into a machine-searchable database.\n\nWork on the ISTC began in 1980 under the leadership of the British Library's Lotte Hellinga. Frederick R. Goff's \"Incunabula in American Libraries\" (1973) was the first pre-existing catalog to be keyed into ISTC's database. Besides providing the catalog's first 12,900 entries, Goff's system for classifying information about incunables formed the basis for the structure of ISTC's records. Entries for all of the incunables in British Library and the Italian union catalog (IGI) were added next, followed by other national incunable catalogs.\n\nISTC records retain many characteristics of the records from Goff's census. Each record represents one edition of a work. Information such as author, title, printer, place of printing, year of printing, language, and format is entered into discrete fields to make the records searchable by a computer. Catalogue entries are reduced to a standard form, for ease of indexing and access, which includes the use of standard names for authors and printers—a major issue in an era where the use of Latinised names and vernacular ones interchangeably was common—and contemporary English names for places. Dates are reduced to conventional years where possible.\n\nThe ISTC has recorded 29,777 editions to date, although some of the records included in that number are actually 16th-century works that were included in previous incunable catalogs in error, so the number of true incunabula recorded is 27,460. The number of extant incunabula is estimated to be approximately 28,000 editions, which puts ISTC extraordinarily close to completing its goal of total coverage. Documenting these last few hundred editions is a tremendous undertaking, as the works are scattered in unknown locations in many countries, leaving bibliographers with no organized way to search for them except to \"look everywhere\".\n\nWhile the ISTC is unsurpassed in coverage, it does not offer the same level of detail as the \"Gesamtkatalog der Wiegendrucke\" or the numerous collection catalogs that are available. Rather, the ISTC complements these resources by providing a searchable index of editions, referring to other catalogs and bibliographies for further detail. ISTC does not include information about individual copies of a work as standard, though a brief census of confirmed locations is provided, and may contain brief notes.\n\nIn general, the ISTC only covers extant editions, although records exist for some works that were sufficiently well-documented before being lost to fire or other calamities.\n\nAn illustrated edition of the ISTC was made available on CD-ROM in 1998. The addition of illustrations offers important information about a book's layout, format, and printing type. The images represent samples of each text rather than the full text.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "497999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497999", "title": "International of Anarchist Federations", "text": "International of Anarchist Federations\n\nThe International of Anarchist Federations (IAF/IFA) (, IFA) was founded during an international anarchist conference in Carrara in 1968 by the three existing European federations of France, Italy and Spain as well as the Bulgarian federation in French exile. Other groups were also present in the formation of the IAF, such as the now defunct \"London Federation of Anarchists\" who took part in the preparation for the conference in 1968. According to \"Time\" magazine, before the first IAF conference in Carrara could begin, firemen were called to check the venue for bombs. The Carrara congress was a response to a congress held in London from June to August 1958 which \"recreated a certain dynamism and wish towards the organisational aspiration of international anarchism\".\n\nThe IAF has since aimed to build and improve strong and active international anarchist structures. The federations associated with IAF believe that such an organisation is necessary to co-ordinate their international work and efficiently co-operate towards their mutual aims.\n\nIn order to further improve the quality of exchange and co-operation, IAF also keeps close contact with other anarchist organisations, such as the International Workers Association (IWA), an international association of anarcho-syndicalist organisations and unions. The IAF contains a large number of anarchist-communist federations and individuals.\n\nThe principles of work within IFA are that of federalism, free arrangement and Mutual Aid, and as states in their preamble of their principles, the IAF fights for:\n\n\nThe IAF is committed to Direct Action, struggle from below, anti-parliamentarism, and opposition to reformism, on both a theoretical and a practical level.\n\nTo improve co-ordination and communication within IAF, as well as to provide an open contact address for the public and other anarchist groups and organisations, an International Secretariat (the Commission of Relations of the International of Anarchist Federations - referred to commonly as C.R.I.F.A.) was set up. The CRIFA irregularly rotates among the IAF federations. It is currently based with the Fédération Anarchiste (France). Often, the different member federations will work with one another on certain agreed issues and campaigns, in order to be able to mount a joint worldwide effort to raise awareness and assist the struggle around certain issues.\n\nThe different member federations also produce their own publications, such as \"Le Monde libertaire\" in France and Belgium, and \"El Libertario\" in Argentina. However, there was also an IAF magazine, \"Anarkiista Debato\" which, due, however, to a lack of funds, was unable to continue.\n\nA number of reports have been written for the IAF, particularly on issues such as the struggle between the village of Rossport, the Corrib gas field and Shell in 2007. Members of the IAF often congregate at meetings of world leaders, such as Gleneagles in 2005.\n\nThere are currently organisations in Venezuela, as well as other groups (both formal and informal), and individuals, around the world with which the IAF is in contact, or holding discussions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38999737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38999737", "title": "Istanbul Railway Museum", "text": "Istanbul Railway Museum\n\nThe Istanbul Railway Museum () is a railway museum situated within the historic İstanbul Sirkeci Terminal at Sirkeci neighborhood of Fatih district in Istanbul, Turkey. Opened on September 23, 2005, the museum is owned and operated by the Turkish State Railways (TCDD).\n\nIn the museum, which is housed in the 1888-built and 1890-opened railway terminal, around 300 historical items are on display. The exhibits of the museum covering an area of include parts of the trains and the railway stations, photographs, and related documents. A few of these are furniture and silver services used in dining cars, station office equipment, the driver cab of an electric suburban train, manufacturer plates of some historic TCDD rolling stock, warning plates, and a station's clock and bell.\n\nIt was reported that 52,774 people, among them 31,153 foreign tourists, visited the museum in 2006.\n\nThe museum is open every day except Sundays and Mondays, between 9:00 and 17:00. Admission is free of charge.\n\nAddress:<br>\nİstanbul Sirkeci Terminal<br>\nSirkeci, Istanbul\n\n"}
{"id": "28958389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28958389", "title": "Kupferstichkabinett Berlin", "text": "Kupferstichkabinett Berlin\n\nThe Kupferstichkabinett, or Museum of Prints and Drawings, is a prints museum in Berlin, Germany. It is part of the Berlin State Museums, and is located in the Kulturforum on Potsdamer Platz. It is the largest museum of graphic art in Germany, with more than 500,000 prints and around 110,000 individual works on paper (drawings, pastels, watercolours, oil sketches).\n\nThe Kupferstichkabinett was officially founded in 1831, with a collection of drawings and watercolours acquired by Frederick William I in 1652 at its core. It was first housed in the Altes Museum beside the collections of Old Master paintings and Classical sculpture from ancient Greece and Rome, as exemplars of \"High Art\". The collection grew throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, with the addition of Medieval, Renaissance and later works, including drawings by Albrecht Dürer and Matthias Grünewald, Sandro Botticelli's illustrations of Dante's \"Divine Comedy\" (purchased in 1882), and the estate of Adolph Menzel.\n\nIn 1986 the Kupferstichkabinett took over the graphics collection of the National Gallery of Berlin, whose emphasis was on 20th-century prints, including Expressionist works that the Nazis had classified as \"degenerate\" and confiscated. In 1994 it opened in a new building in the Kulturforum, reuniting the parts of the collection that had been split between East and West Berlin together with the National Gallery's collection.\n\nThe emphasis is on European drawings and printed graphics from the Middle Ages to the present, as well as illuminated manuscripts, sketchbooks, topographical drawings and printing plates. The older artists include Dürer, Grünewald, Botticelli and Menzel, as well as Altdorfer, Bosch, Bruegel, Chodowiecki, Friedrich, Mantegna, Rembrandt, Schinkel, and Tiepolo. More recent artists include Kirchner, Munch and Picasso, Pop Artists (Warhol, Hamilton, Johns, Stella) conceptual artists, minimalists, and contemporary artists working in Berlin.\n\nSome of the works on paper are stored in other Berlin collections that have a relevant theme, such as the Ethnological and Asian Art Museums, the Art Library, and the Scharf-Gerstenberg Collection. The works in the Kupferstichkabinett cannot be permanently displayed, due to the size of the collection and the air- and light-sensitivity of works on paper; however, the museum holds regular temporary exhibitions.\n\nThe Kupferstichkabinett carries out research and conservation activities and has its own \"Conservation Advisory Council\". Particular candidates for preservation include the bound handwritten works from the Middle Ages and Renaissance, large 19th-century cartoons (e.g. by Peter von Cornelius), and technically complex contemporary works. Other subjects of research include silverpoint drawings and drawings by Grünewald. There is also a continually updated index of watermarks to assist in the dating of works on paper.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54034738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54034738", "title": "List of Wiktionaries", "text": "List of Wiktionaries\n\nWiktionary is a multilingual, web-based dictionary project, edited as a wiki. As of May 2017, Wiktionary is available in 172 language versions.\n\nData copied from as of 13 May 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "33079471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33079471", "title": "List of managed DNS providers", "text": "List of managed DNS providers\n\nThis is a list of Managed DNS providers in a comparison table. A Managed DNS Provider offers either a web-based control panel or downloadable software that allows users to manage their DNS traffic via specified protocols such as: DNS Failover, Dynamic IP addresses, SMTP Authentication, and GeoDNS.\n\n"}
{"id": "26612412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26612412", "title": "List of style guides", "text": "List of style guides\n\nA style guide or style manual is a set of standards for the writing and design of documents, either for general use or for a specific publication, organization or field. The implementation of a style guide provides uniformity in style and formatting within a document and across multiple documents. A set of standards for a specific organization is often known as \"house style\". Style guides are common for general and specialized use, for the general reading and writing audience, and for students and scholars of various academic disciplines, medicine, journalism, the law, government, business, and industry.\n\nSeveral basic style guides for technical and scientific communication have been defined by international standards organizations. These are often used as elements of and refined in more specialized style guides that are specific to a subject, region or organization. Some examples are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the United States, both corporate and journalistic forms of mass communication rely on styles provided in the \"Associated Press Stylebook\" (AP). A classic grammar style guide, which is designed to complement the AP Stylebook, is \"The Elements of Style\". Together, these two books are referenced more than any other general style book for U.S. third-person writing used across most professions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34017003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34017003", "title": "Maitland Club", "text": "Maitland Club\n\nThe Maitland Club was a Scottish historical and literary club and text publication society, modelled on the Roxburghe Club and the Bannatyne Club. It took its name from Sir Richard Maitland (later Lord Lethington), the Scottish poet. The club was founded in Glasgow in 1828, to edit and publish early Scottish texts. Since the distribution of the publications was usually limited to members, the typical print run was between seventy and a hundred copies. The club was wound up in 1859, after publishing its own history as its 80th volume.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10828900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10828900", "title": "Milton Friedman bibliography", "text": "Milton Friedman bibliography\n\nThe following is a list of works by the prominent American economist Milton Friedman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4826013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4826013", "title": "More (interjection)", "text": "More (interjection)\n\nMoré, re, bre (with many variants) is an interjection common to Albanian, Greek, Romanian, South Slavic, Turkish, Venetian and Ukrainian, with its \"locus... more in the Greek world than elsewhere\". It is used in colloquial speech to gain someone's attention, add emphasis, insult, or express surprise or astonishment, similar to the Argentinian vocable of unknown origin, \"Che.\"\n\nFrom the vocative \"moré\" (μωρέ) of the Greek adjective \"morós\" (μωρός) \"foolish, stupid\"; related to Latin \"mōrus\" \"foolish, silly\"; df></ref>\n\n\nLike \"hey!\" re can be used as an exclamation, often used to get attention or express surprise, and so it corresponds in some ways to exclamations such as \"wow!\".\n\nIts original pejorative meaning of 'fool, idiot' is largely lost and it is now used to mean \"friend\", and thus corresponds in some ways to expressions such as \"mate\", \"pal\", \"man\", \"dude\". As in the above English examples, \"re\" may be used both before or after a phrase: \"Ρε, αυτή είναι καλή μπύρα\" (\"Hey, this is some good beer\"), or, \"Πάμε για καμια μπύρα, ρε\" (\"Let's go get a beer, man\"). However, it is familiar, so it is not used to older people or to strangers, when it can be considered offensive.\n\nThe feminine version, mori, preserves the original pejorative sense regardless of context when used by males, but it is used in familiar context when used among women or in gay slang. In Cyprus, it is common to address either a sister, female cousin, or female friend as \"ra\", as opposed to re.\n\nWhen used with loud voice, or with commands, it sounds rude or offensive \"Stand up, re\" → \"You, stand up now!\" However, if followed by \"sy\" (\"you\") or the addressee's name it is considered milder, and friendly (e.g., \"Stand up, re George\" > \"Stand up, my friend George\"). Of course the above is not always standard since everything depends on the context and the intonation.\n\nIt is very common for Greeks raised in Greece but living abroad (especially in the UK) to use \"re\" semi-jokingly when speaking English in the same way they use it when they speak Greek (e.g., \"\"Are you serious re?\", \"How are you re Jim?\" \") Similarly, Greek rappers will use it along with the interjection man! as in \"Re man\".\n\nIn the Greek American community of Tarpon Springs, Florida, a variation of the word is used with the same meaning. Instead of the term re, with the rolling of the \"r\" being said, the Greeks there say \"ray\", with no rolling of the \"r\". \"Ray\" is thus said as in typical English. \"Ray, lets go to the Sponge Docks,\" or \"What's up, Ray?\" is how the term is used locally. This is common only in Tarpon Springs, and the usage of the term is often mocked by Greek Americans throughout the country.\n\nIn Greece and Cyprus \"re\" is often accompanied by a slang word or a profanity, such as \"gamoto\" or \"gamoti\" (\"γαμώτο\" or \"γαμώτη\"), meaning \"fuck!\", an exclamation of fury, surprise or admiration that is considered vulgar. In 1992, in her first statement to the Greek journalists minutes after the 100 m hurdles race at the Olympic Games in Barcelona, Voula Patoulidou, the surprise winner, dedicated her medal to her home country by saying \"Για την Ελλάδα, ρε γαμώτο\" (\"Gia ten Ellada, re gamoto!\" \"For Greece, goddamit!\"), a catchphrase that is still in use; it became emblematic in Greece, and was used and paraphrased in various occasions by the Greek mass media, satirists, Greek bloggers, and ordinary people.\n\n"}
{"id": "3585614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3585614", "title": "Mundaneum", "text": "Mundaneum\n\nThe Mundaneum is a non profit organisation based in Mons, Belgium that runs an exhibition space, website and archive which celebrate the legacy of the original Mundaneum established by Paul Otlet and Henri La Fontaine in the early twentieth century.\n\nThe Mundaneum was created in 1910, following an initiative begun in 1895 by Belgian lawyers Paul Otlet and Henri La Fontaine, as part of their work on documentation science. Otlet first called it the Palais Mondial, meaning \"world palace\" in English, and it occupied the left wing of the Palais du Cinquantenaire, a government building in Brussels. It aimed to gather together all the world's knowledge and classify it according to a system they developed called the Universal Decimal Classification. Otlet and La Fontaine organized an International Conference of International Associations which was the origin of the Union of International Associations (UIA).\n\nThe Mundaneum has been identified as a milestone in the history of data collection and management, and (somewhat more tenuously) as a precursor to the internet.\n\nOtlet regarded the project as the centrepiece of a new 'world city'—a centrepiece which eventually became an archive with more than 12 million index cards and documents. Some consider it a forerunner of the Internet (or, perhaps more appropriately, of systematic knowledge projects such as Wikipedia and WolframAlpha) and Otlet himself had dreams that one day, somehow, all the information he collected could be accessed by people from the comfort of their own homes.\n\nAn English pamphlet published in 1914 described it:\n\nThe Mundaneum was originally housed at the Palais du Cinquantenaire in Brussels (Belgium). This was originally renamed Palais Mondial, before the name Mundaneum was adopted. Otlet commissioned architect Le Corbusier to design a Mundaneum project to be built in Geneva, Switzerland in 1929. Although never built, the project triggered the Mundaneum Affair, a theoretical argument between Corbusier and Czech critic and architect Karel Teige.\n\nIn 1933, with Otlet's agreement, Otto Neurath founded the Mundaneum Institute as a branch in The Hague in 1933, which became central to his activities when he moved to the Netherlands as a refugee following the defeat of the Austrian Social Democratic Party in the Austrian Civil War. In 1936 the Mundaneum Institute launched the International Encyclopedia of Unified Science.\n\nWhen Nazi Germany invaded Belgium in 1940, the Mundaneum was replaced with an exhibit of Third Reich art, and some material was lost.\n\nThe Mundaneum was reconstituted in a large but decrepit building in Leopold Park.\nIt remained there until it was forced to move again in 1972.\n\nThe Mundaneum has since been relocated to a converted 1930s department store in Mons (Wallonia), where the existing museum opened in 1998.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34948921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34948921", "title": "Ondaatje Letters", "text": "Ondaatje Letters\n\nThe Ondaatje Letters (1729-1737), are the earliest examples of private correspondence in Tamil prose and most probably in any languages of South Asia. It is preserved at the Cape Town Archive Repositories, South Africa. The correspondence is between one Nicolaas Ondaatje (in Tamil, Ukantācci), a \"Chettiyar\" from Colombo, Sri Lanka who was sent to the Cape of Good Hope for ten years as a punishment by the Dutch East India Company (VOC). There are up to 50 letters addressed to Nicolaas by his family members and friends from Sri Lanka although his replies have not been preserved. \n\nThe letters consist mainly of family matters like births and deaths, caste rules, ideas on rehabilitation to get back to Sri Lanka. The letters are noted for their ungrammatical construction, lack of punctuation and many loan words from Sanskrit, Persian, Portuguese and Dutch. \n\nThe members of the Ondaatje family, originally hailing from Tamil Nadu, India made their home in Southern Sri Lanka. They have for several centuries functioned as mediators between the colonial powers and the local people. Nicolaas, a prominent member of the trading caste generally known as Chettys in Southern India and Sri Lanka, lived as a free man at the Cape during his stay. He was proficient in Tamil, Dutch and Sinhalese. He was trader, accountant, physician, interpreter and schoolmaster. Nicolaas died just before his exile ended. He is considered to be a direct ancestor of authors Michael Ondaatje and Christopher Ondaatje.\n"}
{"id": "40264993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40264993", "title": "Polish–Hungarian Chronicle", "text": "Polish–Hungarian Chronicle\n\nThe Polish–Hungarian Chronicle or Hungarian–Polish Chronicle (from ) is a medieval chronicle which exists in two redactions in five manuscripts kept in Polish libraries. Its full title is Chronicle of the Hungarians Attached to and Mixed with Chronicles of the Poles, and the Life of Saint Stephen (\"Cronica Ungarorum juncta et mixta cum cronicis Polonorum, et vita sancti Stephani\"). According to the Hungarian historian György Györffy, it \"contains a fair number of absurdities\".\n\nThe original chronicle was probably composed in the 1220s or 1230s at the court of Duke Coloman of Slavonia, the deposed King of Galicia and Lodomeria. The original manuscript was taken to Poland by Coloman's widow, Salomea, after 1241. It tells the story of the Hungarians from the reign of \"Aquila\" (Attila the Hun) to that of Ladislaus I.\n\n"}
{"id": "66196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66196", "title": "Rapture", "text": "Rapture\n\nThe rapture is an eschatological term used by certain Christians, particularly within branches of North American evangelicalism, referring to an end time event when all Christian believers – living and dead – will rise into Heaven and join Christ. Some adherents believe this event is predicted and described in Paul's First Epistle to the Thessalonians in the Bible, where he uses the Greek \"harpazo\" (ἁρπάζω), meaning to snatch away or seize. Though it has been used differently in the past, the term is now often used by certain believers to distinguish this particular event from the Second Coming of Jesus Christ to Earth mentioned in Second Thessalonians, Gospel of Matthew, First Corinthians, and Revelation, usually viewing it as preceding the Second Coming and followed by a thousand year millennial kingdom. Adherents of this perspective are sometimes referred to as premillenialist dispensationalists, but amongst them there are differing viewpoints about the exact timing of the event.\n\nThe term \"rapture\" is especially useful in discussing or disputing the exact timing or the scope of the event, particularly when asserting the \"pre-tribulation\" view that the rapture will occur before, not during, the Second Coming, with or without an extended Tribulation period. The term is most frequently used among Christian theologians and fundamentalist Christians in the United States. Other, older uses of \"rapture\" were simply as a term for any mystical union with God or for eternal life in Heaven with God. \n\nThere are differing views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ's return, such as whether it will occur in one event or two, and the meaning of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4. Many Christians do not subscribe to rapture-oriented theological views. Though the term \"rapture\" is derived from the text of the Latin Vulgate of 1 Thess. 4:17—\"we will be caught up\", (Latin: rapiemur), Catholics, as well as Eastern Orthodox, Anglicans, Lutherans and most Reformed Christians, do not generally use \"rapture\" as a specific theological term, nor do any of these bodies subscribe to the premillennialist dispensationalist theological views associated with its use, but do believe in the phenomenon—primarily in the sense of the elect gathering with Christ in Heaven after his Second Coming. These denominations do not believe that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.\n\nPre-tribulation rapture theology originated in the eighteenth century, with the Puritan preachers Increase and Cotton Mather, and was popularized extensively in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth Brethren, and further in the United States by the wide circulation of the Scofield Reference Bible in the early 20th century. Some, including Grant Jeffrey, maintain that an earlier document called Ephraem or Pseudo-Ephraem already supported a pre-tribulation rapture.\n\n\"Rapture\" is derived from Middle French \"rapture\", via the Medieval Latin \"raptura\" (\"seizure, kidnapping\"), which derives from the Latin \"raptus\" (\"a carrying off\").\n\nThe Koine Greek of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 uses the verb form ἁρπαγησόμεθα (\"harpagisometha\"), which means \"we shall be caught up\" or \"taken away\", with the connotation that this is a sudden event. The dictionary form of this Greek verb is \"harpazō\" (ἁρπάζω). This use is also seen in such texts as , and .\n\nThe Latin Vulgate translates the Greek ἁρπαγησόμεθα as \"rapiemur\" meaning \"we are caught up\" or \"we are taken away\" from the Latin verb \"rapio\" meaning \"to catch up\" or \"take away\".\n\nEnglish versions of the Bible have expressed the concept of \"rapiemur\" in various ways:\n\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church, Eastern Orthodox Church, the Anglican Communion, Lutheranism and many Protestant Calvinist denominations, have no tradition of a preliminary return of Christ. The Orthodox Church, for example, rejects a preliminary return because it depends on a premillennial interpretation of prophetic scriptures, rather than an amillennial or postmillennial fashion.\n\n\nMost premillennialists divide the rapture and second coming into two events. Some dispensationalist premillennialists (including many Evangelicals) hold the return of Christ to be two distinct events, or one second coming in two stages. According to them 1 Thessalonians 4:15–17 is seen to be a description of a preliminary event to the return described in Matthew 24:29–31. Although both describe a coming of Jesus, these are seen to be different events. The first event is a coming where the saved are to be 'caught up,' whence the term \"rapture\" is taken. The second event is described as the second coming. The majority of dispensationalists hold that the first event precedes the period of tribulation, even if not immediately (see chart for additional dispensationalist timing views). \n\nAmillennialists deny the interpretation of a literal 1,000-year rule of Christ, and as such amillennialism does not necessarily imply much difference between itself and other forms of millennialism besides that denial. However, there is considerable overlap in the beliefs of Amillennialists (including most Roman Catholics, Eastern Orthodox, Anglicans, and Lutherans), postmillennialists (including Presbyterians), and historic premillennialists (including some Calvinistic Baptists, among others) with those who hold that the return of Christ will be a single, public event. Those who identify the rapture with the second coming are likely to emphasize mutual similarities between passages of scripture where clouds, trumpets, angels or the archangel, resurrection, and gathering are mentioned. Although some (particularly some amillennialists) may take the rapture to be figurative, rather than literal, these three groups are likely to maintain that the passages regarding the return of Christ describe a single event.\n\nSome proponents believe the doctrine of amillennialism originated with Alexandrian scholars such as Clement and Origen and later became Catholic dogma through Augustine.\n\nDispensationalists see the immediate destination of the raptured Christians as being Heaven. Roman Catholic commentators, such as Walter Drum (1912), identify the destination of the 1 Thessalonians 4:17 gathering as Heaven.\n\nWhile Anglicans have many views, some Anglican commentators, such as N. T. Wright, identify the destination as a specific place on Earth. This interpretation may sometimes be connected to Christian environmentalist concerns.\n\nAccording to 1 Thessalonians 4:16-17 and Matthew 24:37-40 the rapture would occur in the Parousia of the Lord where the Greek \"Parousia\" is used to describe the events: \n\nIn the amillennial and postmillennial views there are no distinctions in the timing of the rapture. These views regard the rapture, as it is described in would be identical to the second coming of Jesus as described in after a symbolic millennium.\n\nIn the premillennial view, the rapture would be before a literal millennium. Within the premillennialism the pre-tribulation position is the predominant view that distinguishes between the rapture and second coming as two different events. There are also other positions within premillennialism that differ with regard to the timing of the rapture.\n\nThough the Catholic Church does not generally regard biblical prophecy in texts such as Daniel and Revelation as strictly future-based (when viewed from the standpoint of our present time), in 1590 Francisco Ribera, a Catholic Jesuit, taught \"futurism\"—the idea that most of Revelation is about the imminent future (rather than containing certain prophecies that were already fulfilled in the early years of the church). He also taught that a gathering-of-the-elect event (similar to what is now called the rapture) would happen 45 days before the end of a 3.5-year tribulation.\n\nThe concept of the rapture, in connection with premillennialism, was expressed by the 17th-century American Puritans Increase and Cotton Mather. They held to the idea that believers would be caught up in the air, followed by judgments on earth, and then the millennium.\nOther 17th-century expressions of the rapture are found in the works of: Robert Maton, Nathaniel Homes, John Browne, Thomas Vincent, Henry Danvers, and William Sherwin.\nThe term \"rapture\" was used by Philip Doddridge and John Gill in their New Testament commentaries, with the idea that believers would be caught up prior to judgment on earth and Jesus' second coming.\n\nDr. Samuel Prideaux Tregelles (1813-1875), a prominent English theologian and biblical scholar, wrote a pamphlet in 1866 tracing the concept of the rapture through the works of John Darby back to Edward Irving.\n\nAn 1828 edition of Matthew Henry's \"An Exposition of the Old and New Testament\" uses the word \"rapture\" in explicating 1 Thes. 4:17.\n\nAlthough not using the term \"rapture\", the idea was more fully developed by Edward Irving (1792–1834). In 1825, Irving directed his attention to the study of prophecy and eventually accepted the one-man Antichrist idea of James Henthorn Todd, Samuel Roffey Maitland, Robert Bellarmine, and Francisco Ribera, yet he went a step further. Irving began to teach the idea of a two-phase return of Christ, the first phase being a secret rapture prior to the rise of the Antichrist. Edward Miller described Irving's teaching like this: \"There are three gatherings: – First, of the first-fruits of the harvest, the wise virgins who follow the Lamb whithersoever He goeth; next, the abundant harvest gathered afterwards by God; and lastly, the assembling of the wicked for punishment.\"\n\nThe pre-tribulation position advocates that the rapture will occur before the beginning of a seven-year tribulation period, while the second coming will occur at the end of it. Pre-tribulationists often describe the rapture as Jesus coming \"for\" the church and the second coming as Jesus coming \"with\" the church. Pre-tribulation educators and preachers include Jimmy Swaggart, J. Dwight Pentecost, Tim LaHaye, J. Vernon McGee, Perry Stone, Chuck Smith, Hal Lindsey, Jack Van Impe, Chuck Missler, Grant Jeffrey, Thomas Ice, David Jeremiah, John F. MacArthur, and John Hagee. While many pre-tribulationists are also dispensationalists, not all pre-tribulationists are dispensationalists.\n\nJohn Nelson Darby first proposed and popularized the pre-tribulation rapture in 1827. This view was accepted among many other Plymouth Brethren movements in England. Darby and other prominent Brethren were part of the Brethren movement which impacted American Christianity, especially with movements and teachings associated with Christian eschatology and fundamentalism, primarily through their writings. Influences included the Bible Conference Movement, starting in 1878 with the Niagara Bible Conference. These conferences, which were initially inclusive of historicist and futurist premillennialism, led to an increasing acceptance of futurist premillennial views and the pre-tribulation rapture especially among Presbyterian, Baptist, and Congregational members. Popular books also contributed to acceptance of the pre-tribulation rapture, including William E. Blackstone's book \"Jesus is Coming\", published in 1878, which sold more than 1.3 million copies, and the Scofield Reference Bible, published in 1909 and 1919 and revised in 1967.\n\nSome pre-tribulation proponents, such as Grant Jeffrey, maintain that the earliest known extra-Biblical reference to the pre-tribulation rapture is from a 7th-century tract known as the Apocalypse of Pseudo-Ephraem the Syrian. Different authors have proposed several different versions of the Ephraem text as authentic and there are differing opinions as to whether it supports belief in a pre-tribulation rapture. One version of the text reads, \"For all the saints and Elect of God are gathered, prior to the tribulation that is to come, and are taken to the Lord lest they see the confusion that is to overwhelm the world because of our sins.\"\n\nThere exists at least one 18th-century and two 19th-century pre-tribulation references: in an essay published in 1788 in Philadelphia by the Baptist Morgan Edwards which articulated the concept of a pre-tribulation rapture, in the writings of Catholic priest Manuel Lacunza in 1812, and by John Nelson Darby in 1827. Manuel Lacunza (1731–1801), a Jesuit priest (under the pseudonym Juan Josafat Ben Ezra), wrote an apocalyptic work entitled \"La venida del Mesías en gloria y majestad\" (\"The Coming of the Messiah in Glory and Majesty\"). The book appeared first in 1811, 10 years after his death. In 1827, it was translated into English by the Scottish minister Edward Irving.\n\nThe rise in belief in the pre-tribulation rapture is often wrongly attributed to a 15-year-old Scottish-Irish girl named Margaret McDonald who was of the first to receive a spiritual baptism under a Pentecostal awakening in Scotland. In 1830, she supposedly had a vision of the end times which describes a post-tribulation view of the rapture that was first published in 1840. It was published again in 1861, but two important passages demonstrating a post-tribulation view were removed to encourage confusion concerning the timing of the rapture. The two removed segments were, \"This is the fiery trial which is to try us. - It will be for the purging and purifying of the real members of the body of Jesus\" and \"The trial of the Church is from Antichrist. It is by being filled with the Spirit that we shall be kept\".\n\nDuring the 1970s, belief in the rapture became popular in wider circles, in part because of the books of Hal Lindsey, including \"The Late Great Planet Earth\", which has reportedly sold between 15 million and 35 million copies, and the movie \"A Thief in the Night\", which based its title on the scriptural reference 1 Thessalonians 5:2. Lindsey proclaimed that the rapture was imminent, based on world conditions at the time. \n\nIn 1995, the doctrine of the pre-tribulation rapture was further popularized by Tim LaHaye's \"Left Behind\" series of books, which sold tens of millions of copies and was made into several movies and four real-time strategy video games.\n\nThe mid-tribulation position espouses that the rapture will occur at some point in the middle of what is popularly called the tribulation period, or during Daniel's 70th Week. The tribulation is typically divided into two periods of 3.5 years each. Mid-tribulationists hold that the saints will go through the first period (Beginning of Travail), but will be raptured into Heaven before the severe outpouring of God's wrath in the second half of what is popularly called the great tribulation. Mid-tribulationists appeal to which says the saints will be given over to tribulation for \"time, times, and half a time,\" - interpreted to mean 3.5 years. At the halfway point of the tribulation, the Antichrist will commit the \"abomination of desolation\" by desecrating the Jerusalem temple. Mid-tribulationist teachers include Harold Ockenga, James O. Buswell (a reformed, Calvinistic Presbyterian), and Norman Harrison. This position is a minority view among premillennialists.\n\nThe prewrath rapture view also places the rapture at some point during the tribulation period before the second coming. This view holds that the tribulation of the church begins toward the latter part of a seven-year period, being Daniel's 70th week, when the Antichrist is revealed in the temple. This latter half of a seven-year period [i.e. 3 1/2 years] is defined as the great tribulation, although the exact duration is not known. References from Matthew 24, Mark 13, and Luke 21 are used as evidence that this tribulation will be cut short by the coming of Christ to deliver the righteous by means of the rapture, which will occur after specific events in Revelation, in particular after the sixth seal is opened and the sun is darkened and the moon is turned to blood. However, by this point many Christians will have been slaughtered as martyrs by the Antichrist. After the rapture will come God's seventh-seal wrath of trumpets and bowls (a.k.a. \"the Day of the Lord\"). The Day of the Lord's wrath against the ungodly will follow for the remainder of seven years. \n\nThe partial, conditional or selective rapture theory holds that all obedient Christians will be raptured before the great tribulation depending on ones personal fellowship (or closeness) between she or he and God, which is not to be confused with the relationship between the same and God (which is believer, regardless of fellowship.) Therefore, it is believed by some that the rapture of a believer is determined by the timing of his conversion before the great tribulation. Other proponents of this theory hold that only those who are faithful in their relationship with God (having true fellowship with Him) will be raptured, and the rest resurrected during the great tribulation, between the 5th and 6th seals of Revelation, having lost their lives during. Still others hold the rest will either be raptured during the tribulation or at its end. As stated by Ira David (a proponent of this view): “The saints will be raptured in groups during the tribulation as they are prepared to go.” Some notable proponents of this theory are G. H. Lang, Robert Chapman, G. H. Pember, Robert Govett, D. M. Panton, Watchman Nee, Ira E. David, J. A. Seiss, Hudson Taylor, Anthony Norris Groves, John Wilkinson, G. Campbell Morgan, Otto Stockmayer and Rev. J. W. (Chip) White, Jr.\n\nIn the post-tribulation premillennial position, the rapture would be identical to the second coming of Jesus or as a meeting in the air with Jesus that immediately precedes his return to the Earth before a literal millennium. The post-tribulation position places the rapture at the end of the tribulation period. Post-tribulation writers define the tribulation period in a generic sense as the entire present age, or in a specific sense of a period of time preceding the second coming of Christ. The emphasis in this view is that the church will undergo the tribulation. - \"Immediately after the Tribulation of those days...they shall gather together his elect...\" - is cited as a foundational scripture for this view. Post-tribulationists perceive the rapture as occurring simultaneously with the second coming of Christ. Upon Jesus' return, believers will meet him in the air and will then accompany him in his return to the Earth. In the Epistles of Paul, most notably in (\"the dead in Christ shall rise first\") and , a trumpet is described as blowing at the end of the tribulation to herald the return of Christ; further supports this view. Moreover, after chapters 6–19, and after 20:1-3 when Satan is bound, says, \"and they lived, and reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This \"is\" the first resurrection. Blessed and holy \"is\" he that hath part in the first resurrection.\"\n\nAuthors and teachers who support the post-tribulational view include Pat Robertson, Walter R. Martin, John Piper, George E. Ladd, Robert H. Gundry, and Douglas Moo.\n\nIn the Post-Millennialism view the millennium is seen as an indefinitely long time thus precluding literal interpretation of a thousand-year period. According to Loraine Boettner \"the world will be Christianized, and the return of Christ will occur at the close of a long period of righteousness and peace, commonly called the millennium.\" Post-Millennialists commonly view the rapture of the Church as one and the same event as the second coming of Christ. According to them the great tribulation was already fulfilled in the Jewish-Roman War of 66–73 AD that involved the destruction of Jerusalem. Authors who have expressed support for this view include the Puritan author of \"Pilgrim's Progress\", John Bunyan, Jonathan Edwards and Charles Finney.\n\nAmillennialists view the millennial rule of Christ as the current, but indefinite period that began with the foundation of the church and that will end with the Second Coming—a period where Christ already reigns with his saints through the Eucharist and his church. They view the life of the church as Christ's kingdom already established (inaugurated on the day of the Pentecost described in the first chapter of Acts), but not to be made complete until his second coming. This framework precludes a literal interpretation of the thousand-year period mentioned in chapter twenty of Revelation, viewing the number \"thousand\" as numerologically symbolic and pertaining to the current age of the church. Amillennialists generally do not use \"rapture\" as a theological term, but they do view the event as coinciding with the second coming—primarily as a mystical gathering with Christ. To amillennialists the final days already began on the day of the Pentecost, but that the great tribulation will occur during the final phase or conclusion of the millennium, with Christ then returning as the alpha and omega at the end of time. Unlike premillennialists who predict the millennium as a literal thousand-year reign by Christ after his return, amillennialists emphasize the continuity and permanency of his reign throughout all periods of the New Covenant, past, present and future. They do not regard mentions of Jerusalem in the chapter twenty-one of Revelation as pertaining to the present geographical city, but to a future new Jerusalem or \"new heaven and new earth\", for which the church through the twelve apostles (representing of the twelve tribes of Israel) currently lays the foundation in the messianic kingdom already present. Unlike certain premillennial dispensationalists, they do not view the rebuilding of the temple of Jerusalem as necessary, because it has already been established in the life of the church through Christ's ultimate sacrifice on the cross. Authors who have expressed support for this view include St. Augustine. The amillennialist viewpoint is the position held by the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Anglican churches, as well as mainline Protestant bodies, such as Lutherans, Methodists, Presbyterians and many Reformed congregations.\n\nSince the origin of the concept, many believers in the rapture have made predictions regarding the date of the event. The primary Biblical reference cited against this position is , where Jesus is quoted as saying about his Parousia; \"But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. But as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming (Parousia) of the Son of man be.\" . Also in , it says “The day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat; both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up” (see also 1 Thessalonians 5:2). Another potential problem for those attempting to set a date for the rapture arises from , where Jesus is quoted as saying \"Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled\" .\n\nAny individual or religious group that has dogmatically predicted the day of the rapture, a practise referred to as \"date setting\", has been thoroughly embarrassed and discredited, as the predicted date of fulfillment has invariably come and gone without event. Some of these individuals and groups have offered \"correct\" target dates, while others have offered excuses and have tried to \"correct\" their target dates, while simply releasing a reinterpretation of the meaning of the scripture to fit their current predicament, and then explain that although the prediction appeared to have not come true, in reality it had been completely accurate and fulfilled, albeit in a different way than many had expected.\n\nConversely, many of those who believe that the precise date of the rapture cannot be known, do affirm that the specific time frame that immediately precedes the rapture event can be known. This time frame is often referred to as \"the season\". The primary section of scripture cited for this position is Matthew 24:32–35; where Jesus is quoted teaching the parable of the fig tree, which is proposed as the key that unlocks the understanding of the general timing of the rapture, as well as the surrounding prophecies listed in the sections of scripture that precede and follow this parable.\n\nSome notable predictions of the date of the second Coming of Jesus include the following:\n\n\nSome notable predictions of the date of the rapture include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7733377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7733377", "title": "Re Davis", "text": "Re Davis\n\nIn Re Davis (1947) 75 CLR 409; [1947] HCA 53 is a High Court of Australia case regarding the admission of legal practitioners and the jurisdiction of courts over barristers.\n\nSamuel Wilton Davis was admitted to the New South Wales Bar in 1946 following completion of the all the necessary requirements under section 10 of the \"Legal Practitioners Act\" 1898-1936 (NSW).\n\nHe was disbarred by the Supreme Court of New South Wales in 1947 for failure to disclose that in 1935 he had pleaded guilty to a charge of breaking, entering and stealing.\n\nThe High Court upheld the decision of the Supreme Court to disbar Davis.\n"}
{"id": "45577892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45577892", "title": "Relative deprivation thesis", "text": "Relative deprivation thesis\n\nThe relative deprivation thesis is a theory used to explain the support base of far-right political parties. According to relative deprivation thesis individuals support far-right political parties due to frustrations arising from feelings of relative deprivation compared to one's own past or with a social reference group.\n\n"}
{"id": "18048026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18048026", "title": "Schema crosswalk", "text": "Schema crosswalk\n\nA schema crosswalk is a table that shows equivalent elements (or \"fields\") in more than one database schema. It maps the elements in one schema to the equivalent elements in another schema.\n\nCrosswalk tables are often employed within or in parallel to enterprise systems, especially when multiple systems are interfaced or when the system includes legacy system data. In the context of Interfaces, they function as a sort of internal Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) mechanism.\n\nFor example, this is a metadata crosswalk from MARC standards to Dublin Core:\n\nCrosswalks show people where to put the data from one scheme into a different scheme. They are often used by libraries, archives, museums, and other cultural institutions to translate data to or from MARC standards, Dublin Core, Text Encoding Initiative (TEI), and other metadata schemes. For example, say an archive has a MARC record in their catalog describing a manuscript. If the archive makes a digital copy of that manuscript and wants to display it on the web along with the information from the catalog, it will have to translate the data from the MARC catalog record into a different format such as Metadata Object Description Schema that is viewable in a webpage. Because MARC has different fields than MODS, decisions must be made about where to put the data into MODS. This type of \"translating\" from one format to another is often called \"metadata mapping\" or \"field mapping,\" and is related to \"data mapping\", and \"semantic mapping\".\n\nCrosswalks also have several technical capabilities. They help databases using different metadata schemes to share information. They help metadata harvesters create union catalogs. They enable search engines to search multiple databases simultaneously with a single query.\n\nOne of the biggest challenges for crosswalks is that no two metadata schemes are 100% equivalent. One scheme may have a field that doesn't exist in another scheme, or it may have a field that is split into two different fields in another scheme; this is why you often lose data when mapping from a complex scheme to a simpler one. For example, when mapping from MARC to Simple Dublin Core, you lose the distinction between types of titles:\n\nSimple Dublin Core only has one single \"Title\" element so all of the different types of MARC titles get lumped together without any further distinctions. This is called \"many-to-one\" mapping. This is also why, once you've translated these titles into Simple Dublin Core you can't translate them back into MARC. Once they're Simple Dublin Core you've lost the MARC information about what types of titles they are so when you map from Simple Dublin Core back to MARC, all the data in the \"Title\" element maps to the basic MARC 245 Title Statement field.\n\nThis is why crosswalks are said to be \"lateral\" (one-way) mappings from one scheme to another. Separate crosswalks would be required to map from scheme A to scheme B and from scheme B to scheme A.\n\nOther mapping problems arise when:\n\n\nSome of these problems are simply not fixable. As Karen Coyle says in \"Crosswalking Citation Metadata: The University of California's Experience,\"\n\n\"The more metadata experience we have, the more it becomes clear that metadata perfection is not attainable, and anyone who attempts it will be sorely disappointed. When metadata is crosswalked between two or more unrelated sources, there will be data elements that cannot be reconciled in an ideal manner. The key to a successful metadata crosswalk is intelligent flexibility. It is essential to focus on the important goals and be willing to compromise in order to reach a practical conclusion to projects.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23147078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23147078", "title": "Shelburne Museum Round Barn", "text": "Shelburne Museum Round Barn\n\nThe Round Barn serves as a gallery space for special exhibitions at Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont.\n\nFred “Silo” Quimbly constructed the Round Barn, a three-story building measuring eighty feet in diameter, in 1901 in East Passumpsic, Vermont. Round barns enjoyed a brief period of popularity in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The Shakers designed and built the first round barn in America in 1826 in Hancock, Massachusetts. The publication of the building’s plans in a nationally distributed farm journal in 1896, sparked the construction of approximately twenty-four comparable barns in Vermont beginning in 1899.\n\nEconomy of labor was the fundamental aim of a round barn’s design. Feed chutes connecting the upper and middle levels allowed for easy distribution of hay, stored in the spacious loft, and silage, stored in the central silo. Farmers could stanchion up to sixty cows around the center silo for feeding and milking and easily remove manure through trap doors that opened to the basement below where it could be collected and removed by horse-drawn wagons.\n\nIn 1985 and 1986 the Shelburne Museum relocated the Round Barn to the Museum grounds. A helicopter flew the upper segment of the silo, which weighs nine thousand pounds, from Passumpsic to Shelburne, while workmen dismantled the remainder of the building piece-by-piece and transported it on flatbed trucks to Museum grounds. After reconstruction, new materials replaced what had aged beyond use.\n\nWhile the roof of the barn was being replaced in April 2009, workers noted the signature of a painter, John Morency, on the silo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13821694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13821694", "title": "Smart label", "text": "Smart label\n\nSmart Label, also called Smart Tag, is an extremely flat configured transponder under a conventional print-coded label, which includes chip, antenna and bonding wires as a so-called inlay. \n\nIn many processes in logistics and transportation, the barcode, or the 2D-barcode, is well established as the key means for identification in short distance. Whereas the automation of such optical coding is limited in appropriate distance for reading success and usually requires manual operation for finding the code or scanner gates that scan all the surface of a coded object, the RFID-inlay allows for better tolerance in fully automated reading from certain specified distance. However, the mechanical vulnerability of the RFID-inlay is higher than the ordinary label, which has its weaknesses in its resistance to scratch.\n\nThus, the smartness of the smart label is earned in compensation of typical weaknesses with the combination of the technologies of plain text, optical character recognition and radio code.\n\nThe processing of these labels is basically as with ordinary labels in all stages of production and application, except the inlay is inserted in an automated processing step to ensure identical positioning for each label and careful processing to prevent any damage to the bonding.\nThe printing is processed in two steps, including\n\nCustomisation of smart labels is available with chip cards. Also combinations of magnetic stripes with RFID chips are used, especially for credit cards.\n\nReplacing silicon processors, smart tags that are printed collect information themselves and process it. The result of decades of research and development by ThinFilm Electronics are “printed transistors, the multilayer tags combine a year’s worth of battery power, sensors and a small display, and will initially be used to show a temperature record of perishable food and medications. Roughly 3 x 1.5 inches in size and consisting of five layers sandwiched in a roll-to-roll production process, the ThinFilm labels use the company’s own ferroelectric polymer technology for storing information. Chains of non-toxic polymers can be flipped between two orientations – representing binary “0″ and “1″ – to store non-volatile data.” \n\nWhile price increases when labels are electronic, the very small percentage of labels that are electric is increasing. Electronic labels have features that supersede non-electronic labels. Electronic versions can signal what is happening in real-time and most can store a digital record.\n\nSmart labels are applied directly to packages or to pallets or other shipping containers. The application directly to the product is still of neglectible importance\n\nThe technologies with the smart labels are all mature and well standardised. After first wave of technology hype with RFID, current consolidation in the market shows hard competitive Darwinism. With increasing sales quantities, the inlays are still annually redesigned and appear in releases with new extensions to performance. However, integration of RFID to handling processes requires sound engineering to ensure the balance of benefit and effort.\n\nIn 2008, ThinFilm and Polyera announced their partnership to produce high volumes of smart labels. The collaboration brings printed integrated systems, such as smart sensor tags, closer to commercial availability.\n\nFor details on the coding and labeling technologies please refer to the respective pages.\n\n"}
{"id": "5813520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5813520", "title": "Spotlight (company)", "text": "Spotlight (company)\n\nSpotlight was founded in 1927 and is the UK's largest casting resource. Over 70,000 performers appear in Spotlight, including actors and actresses, child artists, presenters, dancers, and stunt artists. Thousands of production companies, broadcasters, ad agencies, and independent casting directors use Spotlight as a casting resource. Their clients range from large organisations such as the BBC, ITV, and Channel 4, to small production companies and individual casting directors.\n\nSpotlight also publishes the handbook Contacts both in hard copy and as an e-book. It includes listings for over 5000 companies, services and individuals across all branches of television, stage, film, and radio.\n\nIt is one of the most successful companies in casting. With 70,000 actors paying £150 and with subscription services it generates over £10 million a year. Although established since 1927 it only recently registered as a limited company in 2010.\n\nIt does not disclose its profits publicly.\n\n"}
{"id": "10518790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10518790", "title": "St Fagans Castle", "text": "St Fagans Castle\n\nSt Fagans Castle () is an Elizabethan mansion in St Fagans, Cardiff, Wales, dating from the late 16th century. The house and remaining medieval fortifications are Grade I listed. The grounds of St Fagans Castle now contain St Fagans National Museum of History.\n\nA medieval castle dating from the 13th century previously existed on the site. By 1536 it lay in ruins. By 1563 the site had been sold to a Dr John Gibbon. A new house was built on the site either by Gibbon or by Nicholas Herbert, who bought the site from Gibbon in 1586. Part of the D-shaped medieval boundary fortifications remain, forming a wall around the current house.\n\nSir Edward Lewis of The Van, Caerphilly, bought the house in 1616 and the interior dates partly from then and partly from after 1850, when it became the summer residence of the Windsor-Clive family. The property was part of the estate of the Earls of Plymouth and, in 1833, was inherited by Lady Harriet Clive who proceeded to restore the building. The sequence of terraces in the gardens was created for the Windsor-Clives in 1865–6 and extended in the early 20th century. The house became a convalescent hospital for soldiers during World War I, with the banqueting hall containing a ward of 40 beds.\n\nIn 1947 the Windsor-Clives gave the house and grounds to the Amgueddfa Cymru - National Museum Wales and the grounds subsequently became the site of the Welsh Folk Museum, now St Fagans National Museum of History.\n\nSt Fagans Castle became a Grade I listed building in 1977. The lead water cistern in the courtyard of the castle is Grade II* listed, while a number of features in the gardens are listed as Grade II.\n\n"}
{"id": "1830038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830038", "title": "Technical report", "text": "Technical report\n\nA technical report (also scientific report) is a document that describes the process, progress, or results of technical or scientific research or the state of a technical or scientific research problem. It might also include recommendations and conclusions of the research. Unlike other scientific literature, such as scientific journals and the proceedings of some academic conferences, technical reports rarely undergo comprehensive independent peer review before publication. They may be considered as grey literature. Where there is a review process, it is often limited to within the originating organization. Similarly, there are no formal publishing procedures for such reports, except where established locally.\n\nTechnical reports are today a major source of scientific and technical information. They are prepared for internal or wider distribution by many organizations, most of which lack the extensive editing and printing facilities of commercial publishers.\n\nTechnical reports are often prepared for sponsors of research projects. Another case where a technical report may be produced is when more information is produced for an academic paper than is acceptable or feasible to publish in a peer-reviewed publication; examples of this include in-depth experimental details, additional results, or the architecture of a computer model. Researchers may also publish work in early form as a technical report to establish novelty, without having to wait for the often long production schedules of academic journals. Technical reports are considered \"non-archival\" publications, and so are free to be published elsewhere in peer-reviewed venues with or without modification.\n\n\nTechnical reports are now commonly published electronically, whether on the Internet or on the originating organization's intranet.\n\nMany organizations collect their technical reports into a formal series. Reports are then assigned an identifier (report number, volume number) and share a common cover-page layout. The entire series might be uniquely identified by an ISSN.\n\nA registration scheme for a globally unique \"\" (ISRN) was standardized in 1994 (ISO 10444), but was never implemented in practice. ISO finally withdrew this standard in December 2007. It aimed to be an international extension of a report identifier scheme used by U.S. government agencies (ANSI/NISO Z39.23).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53596516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53596516", "title": "The Computer Language Benchmarks Game", "text": "The Computer Language Benchmarks Game\n\nThe Computer Language Benchmarks Game (formerly called \"The Great Computer Language Shootout\") is a free software project for comparing how a given subset of simple algorithms can be implemented in various popular programming languages.\n\nThe project consists of:\n\n\nDue to resource constraints, only a small subset of common programming languages are supported, up to the discretion of the game's operator.\nThe following aspects of each given implementation are measured:\n\nIt is common to see multiple solutions in the same programming language for the same problem. This highlights that within the bounds of a given language, a solution can be given which is either of high abstraction, is memory efficiency, fast, or parallelizes better.\n\nIt was a design choice from the start to only include very simple toy problems, each providing a different kind of programming challenge.\nThis provides users of the Benchmark Game the opportunity to scrutinize the various implementations.\n\nThe project was known as \"The Great Computer Language Shootout\" until 2007.\n\nA port for Windows was maintained separately between 2002 and 2003.\n\nThe sources have been archived on GitLab.\n\nThere are also older forks on GitHub.\n\nThe project is continuously evolving. The list of supported programming languages is updated approximately once per annum, following market trends. Users can also submit improved solutions to any of the problems or suggest testing methodology refinement.\n\nThe developers themselves highlight the fact that those doing research should exercise caution when using such microbenchmarks:\n\nThe benchmark results have uncovered various compiler issues. Sometimes a given compiler failed to process unusual, but otherwise grammatically valid constructs. At other times, runtime performance was shown to be below expectations, which prompted compiler developers to revise their optimization capabilities.\n\nVarious research articles have been based on the benchmarks, its results and its methodology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1497225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1497225", "title": "The Discworld Mapp", "text": "The Discworld Mapp\n\nThe Discworld Mapp is an atlas that contains a large, fold out map of the \"Discworld\" fictional world, drawn by Stephen Player to the directions of Terry Pratchett and Stephen Briggs. It also contains a short booklet relating the adventures and explorers of the Disc and their discoveries.\n\nIt was originally conceived as the second in a series of three maps, along with \"The Streets of Ankh-Morpork\" and \"A Tourist Guide to Lancre\". For this work, Briggs became known as the \"cartographer of Discworld.\" A fourth atlas, \"Death's Domain\", was added to the series.\n\nAfter its publication, Pratchett was surprised to learn that British bookstores were displaying it in their nonfiction sections because, they argued, it was a real map, though of a fictional place.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26772154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26772154", "title": "The Early Bird Dood It!", "text": "The Early Bird Dood It!\n\nThe Early Bird Dood It! is a 1942 MGM cartoon directed by Tex Avery and produced by Fred Quimby. The composer of this cartoon was Scott Bradley.\n\nThe cartoon opens with the printed words:\nTo the ladies \nThe worm in this photoplay \nis fictitious - Any similarity \nbetween this worm and your \nhusband is purely intentional.\n\nThe camera pans over a forest, shown with no background music. There is a sign that reads \"Quiet, isn't it?\" Then, the camera zooms to a hole in ground, from which emerges a worm wearing a bowler hat. The worm sees a bird in the distance and goes back down into his hole. The bird tries to get the worm out of the hole, but ends up with hanky attached to his beak. The bird writes a zero, the third on this week, in his \"worm ration card\". The bird says that he will see us tomorrow, and goes away.\n\nThe worm comes out from his hole and tells the viewers that the bird is trying to catch him every day, and that it's making him a nervous wreck. The worm wants to get rid of the bird, and then he sees a chance: a cat that chased a mouse but failed.\n\nThe worm approaches the cat, and asks him if he wants to eat. The cat says that he does; and the worm shows him a plan of action: the bird chases the worm to his hole, the worm hides in it, then the cat will catch the bird and eat it. The worm tells the cat that he'll see him in the morning. The worm pulls down a rolling screen in order to bring in the next morning. The plan goes well until the cat fails to eat the bird. The cat then chases the bird around the tree, and after some time, the bird hops out of the hollow and hits the still-running cat with the club. The cat says \"Ouch!\" and then goes swearing (that dialogue is muted). The worm, not having seen all of this, thinks that cat has eaten the bird, and then walks away. Then, he sees the bird and runs away,\n\nThe worm tries to jump into his hole; but the bird substitutes his mouth for the hole, and the worm jumps runs away, with the bird in pursuit. They pass a billboard advertising this very cartoon. They stop, and the bird says, \"Hey, I hear that's a pretty funny cartoon\"; to which the worm replies, \"Well, I hope it's funnier than this one\"; after which the chase resumes.\n\nThe worm changes his form into beautiful woman's leg while hiding in bush. Then, the worm hits the distracted bird with the club. The bird almost hits the worm with club as the worm is walking behind a bush, but stops at the last moment, because the worm is actually standing on the cat's head. The cat chases the bird until they see a bar. They go into the bar, and the cat puts up a sign reading \"2 minute intermission for a short beer\" Then, the bird flips the sign to \"Here we go again!\", and the chase continues.\n\nThey see a \"SLOW\" sign, and the chase continues with in slow-motion. They then pass a sign reading \"RESUME SPEED\", and the chase goes returns normal speed. The bird ducks behind a tree; but the cat goes continues, and crashes through a series of warning signs, reading \"DEAD END\", \"CURVE AHEAD\", \"STOP\", \"DETOUR\", \"BRIDGE OUT\", and \"ROAD CLOSED\". The cat falls off a cliff, into a body of water; at the bottom he finds a road sign reading \"HOW DID YOU GET WAY DOWN HERE\".\n\nThen, worm, sitting in the hole, puts up a stick with his hat to check if here is bird. The bird itself sits on the stick; and another chase ensues. At one moment worm stops the chase and asks the bird: \"Are you following me?\" to which the bird loudly replies \"YEAH!\" and chase continues. The worm replies \"That's what I thought\", and dashes off.\n\nThe bird places a rock on the worm's hole, and paints a fake hole on the ground; but the worm dives into the fake hole. The worm pops his head out, says to the bird \"I fooled ya!\", then goes in again. The bird attempts to dive into the painted hole, but crashes into the ground. The worm jumps out of the fake hole and dives into a lake. The bird \"lifts\" the water as though it were a rug, and sees the cat. The bird runs away, pursued by the cat.\n\nThe worm, standing in the road on which the bird and cat are running, holds up a sign reading \"DETOUR\". Then cat and bird then veer to the right, and run right off a cliff. take the other route of chase and fall from steep. The worm, seeing this, produces a bugle, and plays the funeral march, then goes into a jazz riff.\n\nThe worm goes back into his hole, confident that he is rid of the bird; but the bird immediately sticks his head out and swallows, obviously having eaten the worm. The bird then walks off, passing behind a tree. The cat immediately emerges, licking his chops and hiccupping, having obviously eaten the bird. He shows a sign reading \"Sad ending ain't it?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "47021584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47021584", "title": "The Official Politically Correct Dictionary and Handbook", "text": "The Official Politically Correct Dictionary and Handbook\n\nThe Official Politically Correct Dictionary and Handbook is a book written by Henry Beard and Christopher Cerf. It was published in 1992 by Villard Books in New York, by Grafton in London, and, by Random House of Canada Limited in Toronto. An updated edition was published in 1994.\n\nIt was a bestseller that was called \"tongue in cheek\", \"outrageously funny\", \"hilariously rewarding for people who have not read any non-humorous works on its subject and who enjoy satire\", and has been called \"thoroughly sourced\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14064940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14064940", "title": "Time Almanac with Information Please", "text": "Time Almanac with Information Please\n\nTime Almanac with Information Please was an almanac published in the United States. The almanac was first published in 1947 as the Information Please Almanac by Dan Golenpaul. The name was changed with the 1999 edition when \"Time Magazine\" bought naming rights to the Almanac.\n\n\"Information Please\" was created in 1947 from the host and panelists from the popular radio show entitled \"Information Please\". The radio show which began in 1938 consisted of a panel of information experts that answered questions sent in by the public. The fact experts answered questions over the air and when the panelists were not able to give a correct answer they used humor instead. Host Clifton Fadiman edited and helped publish the first edition in 1947. In 1997, the \"Information Please Almanac\" merged with \"Time\". The \"Time Almanac for Kids with Information Please\" was first published in 2000.\n\nWith the 2008 edition the Almanac began a partnership with the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", and in 2013 the final edition was published. The \"Time Almanac for Kids\" continues in publication.\n\nThe \"Almanac\" contained the following sections:\n"}
{"id": "4412033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4412033", "title": "Topkapi manuscript", "text": "Topkapi manuscript\n\nThe Topkapi manuscript is an early manuscript of the Quran dated to the late 1st century / early 2nd century AH (i.e. early to mid 8th century AD)\n\nThis manuscript is kept in the Topkapi Palace Museum, Istanbul, Turkey. It is attributed to Uthman Ibn Affan (d. 656) Similar illuminations can be found in the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem, the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus and other Umayyad monuments. The size of this manuscript is 41 cm x 46 cm. It contains more than 99% of the text of the Qur'an. With only two pages (23 verses) lacking, this manuscript is the closest to the complete text of the Quran. Mehmed Ali Pasha, Governor of Egypt, sent this manuscript to the Ottoman Sultan Mahmud II as a gift in the 19th century (CE).\n\n"}
{"id": "34525132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34525132", "title": "Twick.it", "text": "Twick.it\n\nTwick.it was an online glossary consisting of statements up to 140 characters. The user-generated definitions were ranked by agreement and disagreement votes. Twick.it was called an \"explain engine\" by its community. The limitation of the entries (so called \"Twicks\") to 140 characters was adapted from Twitter, and the idea of user-generated reference work from Wikipedia (although entries submitted by one user could not be modified by other users). Content is available under the Creative Commons License \"CC-BY.\"\n\nThe project by Markus Möller and Sean Andrew Kollak launched in November 2009 with a public beta phase and was presented at CeBIT 2010. Since the end of 2009 print media and radio broadcasts reported about the project. In 2010, Twick.it won the second prize at the German Social-Media Award.\n\nBy October 2011, over 18,000 explanations (mainly in German) had been created.\n\nIn June 2012, the owners announced the discontinuation of Twick.it as of August 2012 because of lack of interest.\n\nThe platform was programmed in PHP with a MySQL database. No frameworks were used on the server side. In the frontend, the JavaScript frameworks Prototype and Script.aculo.us were used.\nAn open REST API allowed external applications to access the existing entries.\n\nTwick.it differed from other online encyclopedias by the short length of the explanation and the fact that there could be more than one explanation of a topic. A system of ranking, in which all registered users can participate equally, was meant to ensure that the best rated explanation appears at top; articles which are judged by the community as an incorrect or incomplete, rank on irrelevant lower ranks.\n\nAll topics were to be provided automatically with keywords. Through this indexing, it was possible to find other related topics.\n\nIn June 2011 the second phase of the project with features for community building (discussion walls, message center, automatic notifications) was launched.\n\nThe goal of Twick.it was to use the collected short explanations in other services and devices. External services were to be enriched by short explanations by certain mashups.\n\nThe platform included the plugin \"Twick.it Tool Tip\": On sites which installed the corresponding JavaScript code for the tooltips, the definitions of Twick.it could be directly accessed. The site visitor would select a word and the explanation (the Twick.it community has chosen as the most relevant) of the selected text would be shown as mouseover. There was also a corresponding plug-in for the blogging software WordPress.\n\nThe collected explanations could by displayed in browsers for augmented reality, as Layar, junaio and Wikitude. Thus location-based explanations were displayed on the screen of the mobile phone. In August 2010, Twick.it was awarded as the best \"Augmented Reality World\" in the category \"Social\" at the World Cup Wikitude.\n\nFurthermore, there were several apps to look up explanations on mobile phones and tablets: Twickdroid (Android), Twick.it Mobile (iPhone), Twick.it-2-go (iPhone) and Twick.it-2-goHD (iPad).\n\nSince February 2011 German Twicks had also been available as a podcast. This project was supported by Wikimedia Germany.\n"}
{"id": "23454154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23454154", "title": "UK Power", "text": "UK Power\n\nUK Power is an energy switching and price comparison service, which provides consumers and businesses with advice on energy tariffs. UK Power is one of a small number of switching sites with full accreditation from Consumer Focus, the government watchdog. All Consumer Focus accredited websites are regulated so that they provide an impartial, comprehensive service. UK Power Limited ceased being a Confidence Code accredited site on 1 August 2017.\n\nIn line with all UK gas and electricity price comparison services, the UK Power switching service is free to use for both home and business consumers. UK Power receive a commission from suppliers when a customer switches through their service. Their website states, \"Some, but not all, suppliers pay a referral fee to UK Power for new customers. This does not affect the presentation of results in any way as we show results with complete impartiality as required by the Consumer Focus Confidence Code. All suppliers and tariffs are listed on this website regardless of commercial arrangements.\"\n\nThe UK Power website was the fifth and final price comparison site to be accredited by \"of\"ge\"m\" on 22 November 2001 before accreditation passed to Energywatch.\n\nThe accreditation authority was subsequently passed from Energywatch to Consumer Focus.\n\n"}
{"id": "20841038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20841038", "title": "Xarnego", "text": "Xarnego\n\nXarnego () in Catalan, or charnego in Spanish, is a pejorative or descriptive term used primarily in the 1950s–70s in the Catalonia region of Spain to refer to economic migrants from other—typically poorer—regions of Spain such as Andalusia or Extremadura. It can also refer to someone born in Catalonia of non-Catalan Spanish heritage. The word is never used to refer to the latest wave of immigrants from outside of Spain.\n\nThe term came into use in the 1950s and 1960s due to massive immigration from other Spanish speaking regions of Spain to Catalonia. About 1,800,000 people came into Catalonia during that period. While the immigrants were a welcome source of cheap labour, they were also seen by Catalans as a threat to their language, which was already repressed by the Francoist State. Immigrants who learned Catalan were more quickly integrated into the community.\n\nThe term went out of use in the 1980s, has over the years been replaced by a variety of terms which distinguish Catalans of Spanish immigrant origin from ethnic Catalans, and approximately since the second decade of the 21st century, its use has been retaken in the political and media field.\n\nThe word \"charnego\" has always had a derogatory character, more related to the language than to the geographical origin, and today several personalities declare charnegas claiming a situation of social normality. One of the first to do so was Joan Manuel Serrat and, after the aforementioned incident, even Pasqual Maragall of the Socialists' Party of Catalonia and Josep Lluís Carod-Rovira of ERC, all three of which are of charnego origin on their maternal side. Currently many people consider the term derogatory and xenophobic. It is used disparagingly to refer to people who live in Catalonia and originate in other regions (which is normally its common use).\n\n"}
