{"id": "206542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206542", "title": "Astronomical object", "text": "Astronomical object\n\nAn astronomical object or celestial object is a naturally occurring physical entity, association, or structure that exists in the observable universe. In astronomy, the terms \"object\" and \"body\" are often used interchangeably. However, an astronomical body or celestial body is a single, tightly bound, contiguous entity, while an astronomical or celestial \"object\" is a complex, less cohesively bound structure, which may consist of multiple bodies or even other objects with substructures.\n\nExamples of astronomical objects include planetary systems, star clusters, nebulae, and galaxies, while asteroids, moons, planets, and stars are astronomical bodies. A comet may be identified as both body and object: It is a \"body\" when referring to the frozen nucleus of ice and dust, and an \"object\" when describing the entire comet with its diffuse coma and tail.\n\nThe universe can be viewed as having a hierarchical structure. At the largest scales, the fundamental component of assembly is the galaxy. Galaxies are organized into groups and clusters, often within larger superclusters, that are strung along great filaments between nearly empty voids, forming a web that spans the observable universe.\n\nTHE UNIVERSE has a variety of morphologies, with irregular, elliptical and disk-like shapes, depending on their formation and evolutionary histories, including interaction with other galaxies, which may lead to a merger. Disc galaxies encompass lenticular and spiral galaxies with features, such as spiral arms and a distinct halo. At the core, most galaxies have a supermassive black hole, which may result in an active galactic nucleus. Galaxies can also have satellites in the form of dwarf galaxies and globular clusters.\n\nThe constituents of a galaxy are formed out of gaseous matter that assembles through gravitational self-attraction in a hierarchical manner. At this level, the resulting fundamental components are the stars, which are typically assembled in clusters from the various condensing nebulae. The great variety of stellar forms are determined almost entirely by the mass, composition and evolutionary state of these stars. Stars may be found in multi-star systems that orbit about each other in a hierarchical organization. A planetary system and various minor objects such as asteroids, comets and debris, can form in a hierarchical process of accretion from the protoplanetary disks that surrounds newly formed stars.\n\nThe various distinctive types of stars are shown by the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram (H–R diagram)—a plot of absolute stellar luminosity versus surface temperature. Each star follows an evolutionary track across this diagram. If this track takes the star through a region containing an intrinsic variable type, then its physical properties can cause it to become a variable star. An example of this is the instability strip, a region of the H-R diagram that includes Delta Scuti, RR Lyrae and Cepheid variables. Depending on the initial mass of the star and the presence or absence of a companion, a star may spend the last part of its life as a compact object; either a white dwarf, neutron star, or black hole.\n\nThe table below lists the general categories of bodies and objects by their location or structure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5327808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5327808", "title": "Coastline paradox", "text": "Coastline paradox\n\nThe coastline paradox is the counterintuitive observation that the coastline of a landmass does not have a well-defined length. This results from the fractal-like properties of coastlines, i.e., the fact that a coastline typically has a fractal dimension (which in fact makes the notion of length inapplicable). The first recorded observation of this phenomenon was by Lewis Fry Richardson and it was expanded upon by Benoit Mandelbrot.\n\nThe measured length of the coastline depends on the method used to measure it and the degree of cartographic generalization. Since a landmass has features at all scales, from hundreds of kilometers in size to tiny fractions of a millimeter and below, there is no obvious size of the smallest feature that should be taken into consideration when measuring, and hence no single well-defined perimeter to the landmass. Various approximations exist when specific assumptions are made about minimum feature size.\n\nThe problem is fundamentally different from the measurement of other, simpler edges. It is possible, for example, to accurately measure the length of a straight, idealized metal bar by using a measurement device to determine that the length is less than a certain amount and greater than another amount—that is, to measure it within a certain degree of uncertainty. The more accurate the measurement device, the closer results will be to the true length of the edge. When measuring a coastline, however, the issue is that the result does not increase in accuracy for an increase in measurement —it only increases; unlike with the metal bar, there is no way to obtain a maximum value for the length of the coastline.\n\nThe basic concept of length originates from Euclidean distance. In Euclidean geometry, a straight line represents the shortest distance between two points. This line has only one length. On the surface of a sphere, this is replaced by the geodesic length (also called the great circle length), which is measured along the surface curve that exists in the plane containing both endpoints and the center of the sphere. The length of basic curves is more complicated but can also be calculated. Measuring with rulers, one can approximate the length of a curve by adding the sum of the straight lines which connect the points:\n\nUsing a few straight lines to approximate the length of a curve will produce an estimate lower than the true length; when increasingly short (and thus more numerous) lines are used, the sum approaches the curve's true length. A precise value for this length can be found using calculus, the branch of mathematics enabling the calculation of infinitely small distances. The following animation illustrates how a smooth curve can be meaningfully assigned a precise length:\n\nHowever, not all curves can be measured in this way. A fractal is, by definition, a curve whose complexity changes with measurement scale. Whereas approximations of a smooth curve tend to a single value as measurement precision increases, the measured value for a fractal does not converge.\n\nAs the length of a fractal curve always diverges to infinity, if one were to measure a coastline with infinite or near-infinite resolution, the length of the infinitely short kinks in the coastline would add up to infinity. However, this figure relies on the assumption that space can be subdivided into infinitesimal sections. The truth value of this assumption—which underlies Euclidean geometry and serves as a useful model in everyday measurement—is a matter of philosophical speculation, and may or may not reflect the changing realities of \"space\" and \"distance\" on the atomic level (approximately the scale of a nanometer). For instance, the Planck length, many orders of magnitude smaller than an atom, is proposed as the smallest measurable unit possible in the universe.\n\nCoastlines are less definite in their construction than idealized fractals such as the Mandelbrot set because they are formed by various natural events that create patterns in statistically random ways, whereas idealized fractals are formed through repeated iterations of simple, formulaic sequences.\n\nIn actuality, the concept of an infinite fractal is not applicable to a coastline; as progressively more accurate measurement devices are used (with the measurement result growing every time), other, practical problems with measurement emerge. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4322218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4322218", "title": "Critical geography", "text": "Critical geography\n\nCritical geography is theoretically informed geographical scholarship that seeks for social justice, liberation, and leftist politics. Critical geography is also used as an umbrella term for Marxist, feminist, postmodern, poststructural, queer, left-wing, and activist geography.\n\nCritical geography is one variant of critical social science and humanities that adopt Marx’s thesis to interpret and change the world. Fay (1987) defines contemporary critical science as the effort to understand the oppression in a society and use this understanding to promote societal change and liberation. Agger (1998) identifies a number of features of critical social theory practiced in fields like geography, which include: a rejection of positivism; an endorsement of the possibility of progress; a claim for the structural dynamics of domination; an argument that dominance derived from forms of false consciousness, ideology, and myth; a faith in the agency of everyday change and self-transformation and an attendant rejection of determinism; and a rejection of revolutionary expediency.\n\nCritical geography in the Anglo-American world rooted in the radical geography that emerged in the early 1970s. Peet (2000) provides an overview of the evolution of radical and critical geography. In the early 1970s, radical geographers tried to transform the scope of the discipline of geography by responding to the great issues of the time - civil rights, environmental pollution, and war. From the mid- to late-1970s saw ascending critiques of the quantitative revolution and the adoption of Marxist approach. The 1980s is marked by fissures between humanistic, feminist and Marxist streams, and a reversal of structural excess. In the late 1980s, critical geography emerged and gradually became a self-identified field.\n\nAlthough closely related, critical geography and radical geography are not interchangeable. Critical geography has two crucial departures from radical geography: (1) a rejection of the structural excess of Marxism, in accordance with the post-modern turn; and (2) an increasing interest in culture and representation, in contrast to radical geography’s focus on the economy. Peet (2000) notices a rapprochement between critical and radical geography after heated debate in the 1990s. Nevertheless, Castree (2000) posits that critical and radical geography entail different commitments. He contends that the eclipse of radical geography indicates the professionalization and academicization of Left geography, and therefore worries about the loss of the \"radical\" tradition.\n\nAs a consequence of the post-modern turn, critical geography doesn’t have a unified commitment. Hubbard, Kitchin, Bartley, and Fuller (2002) asserts that critical geography has a diverse epistemology, ontology, and methodology, and does not have a distinctive theoretical identity. Nonetheless, Blomley (2006) identifies six common themes of critical geography, encompassing:\n\nA few important questions remain unsolved in critical geography. The first one is that there has been relatively limited discussion over the shared commitments of critical geographers, with a few exceptions such as Harvey (2000). The question such as \"what are geographers critical of\", and \"to what end\" needs to be answered. Barnes (2002) comments that critical geographers are better at providing explanatory diagnoses than offering anticipatory-utopian imaginations to reconfigure the world.\n\nThe second question concerns the institutionalization of critical geography. Even though critical geographers conceive themselves as rebels and outsiders, critical thinking has become prevalent in geography. Critical geography is now situated at the very heart of the discipline of geography. Some see institutionalization as a natural result of the analytical strength and insights of critical geography, while others fear that institutionalization has entailed cooperation. The question is whether critical geography still holds its commitment to political change.\n\nLastly, as critical geography is practiced across the world, the insights of critical geographers outside the Anglophone world should be better acknowledged. In this regard, Mizuoka et al. (2005) offered an overview of Japanese critical geography praxis since the 1920s. In addition, critical geography should also forge stronger linkage with critical scholars in other disciplines.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5217037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5217037", "title": "Currie (surname)", "text": "Currie (surname)\n\nCurrie is a surname in the English language. The name has numerous origins.\n\nIn some cases it originated as an habitational name, derived from Currie in Midlothian, Scotland. In other cases it originated as a habitational name, derived from Corrie, in Dumfriesshire, Scotland. A third origin for the surname is that it originated as a Scottish spelling of the Irish surname \"Curry\", a surname which has several origins. A fourth origin of the surname, particularly on Arran, is as an Anglicised form of the Scottish Gaelic \"MacMhuirich\". The Hebridean \"MacMhuirich\" evolved in such a way that the forms \"McVurich\" and \"McCurrie\" first appeared in the 17th century, and by the 18th century Currie is found on Islay, and on Uist by the 19th century. Another origin of the surname is from Curry, in Somerset, England. In some cases the name may also be derived from the Old French \"curie\", which means \"kitchen\".\n\nEarly forms of the surname include: \"æt Curi\", in about 1075; and \"de Cury\", in 1212. Both forms are derived from the place name in Somerset. Other early forms include: \"atte Curie\", in SRS 1327; and \"atte Corye\". Early forms of the surname, derived from a Scottish place name, is \"de Curry\", in 1179; and \"de Curri\", in 1210. An early form of the surname, when derived from \"MacMhuirich\" is \"M'Currie\" and \"Currie\", in the early 18th century.\n\nIt can be a Sept of Clan Donald or Clan Macpherson.\n\n"}
{"id": "10431114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10431114", "title": "Deep sea mining", "text": "Deep sea mining\n\nDeep sea mining is a relatively new mineral retrieval process that takes place on the ocean floor. Ocean mining sites are usually around large areas of polymetallic nodules or active and extinct hydrothermal vents at below the ocean’s surface. The vents create globular or massive sulfide deposits, which contain valuable metals such as silver, gold, copper, manganese, cobalt, and zinc. The deposits are mined using either hydraulic pumps or bucket systems that take ore to the surface to be processed. As with all mining operations, deep sea mining raises questions about its potential environmental impact. Environmental advocacy groups such as Greenpeace and the Deep sea Mining Campaign have argued that seabed mining should not be permitted in most of the world's oceans because of the potential for damage to deepsea ecosystems and pollution by heavy metal laden plumes.\n\nIn the 1960s the prospect of deep-sea mining was brought up by the publication of J. L. Mero's \"Mineral Resources of the Sea\". The book claimed that nearly limitless supplies of cobalt, nickel and other \nmetals could be found throughout the planet's oceans. Mero stated that these metals occurred in deposits of manganese nodules, which appear as lumps of compressed flowers on the seafloor at \ndepths of about 5,000 m. Some nations including France, Germany and the United States sent out research vessels in search of nodule deposits. One such vessel was the Glomar Explorer. Initial estimates of deep sea mining viability turned out to be much exaggerated. This overestimate, coupled with depressed metal prices, led to the near abandonment of nodule mining by 1982. From the 1960s to 1984 an estimated US $650 million had \nbeen spent on the venture, with little to no return.\n\nOver the past decade a new phase of deep-sea mining has begun. Rising demand for precious metals in Japan, China, Korea and India has pushed these countries in search of new sources. Interest has recently shifted toward hydrothermal vents as the source of metals instead of scattered nodules. The trend of transition towards an electricity-based information and transportation infrastructure currently seen in western societies further pushes demands for precious metals. The current revived interest in phosphorus nodule mining at the seafloor stems from phosphor-based artificial fertilizers being of significant importance for world food production. Growing world population pushes the need for artificial fertilizers or greater incorporation of organic systems within agricultural infrastructure.\n\nCurrently, the best potential deep sea site, the Solwara 1 Project, has been found in the waters off Papua New Guinea, a high grade copper-gold resource and the world's first Seafloor Massive Sulphide (SMS) resource. The Solwara 1 Project is located at 1600 metres water depth in the Bismarck Sea, New Ireland Province. Using ROV (remotely operated underwater vehicles) technology developed by UK-based Soil Machine Dynamics, Nautilus Minerals Inc. is first company of its kind to announce plans to begin full-scale undersea excavation of mineral deposits. However a dispute with the government of Papua-New Guinea delayed production and its now scheduled to commence commercial operations in early 2018.\n\nThe international law–based regulations on deep sea mining are contained in the United Nations Conventions on the Law of the Sea from 1973 to 1982, which came into force in 1994. The convention set up the International Seabed Authority (ISA), which regulates nations’ deep sea mining ventures outside each nations’ Exclusive Economic Zone (a area surrounding coastal nations). The ISA requires nations interested in mining to explore two equal mining sites and turn one over to the ISA, along with a transfer of mining technology over a 10- to 20-year period. This seemed reasonable at the time because it was widely believed that nodule mining would be extremely profitable. However, these strict requirements led some industrialized countries to refuse to sign the initial treaty in 1982.\n\nWithin the EEZ of nation states seabed mining comes under the jurisdiction of national laws. Despite extensive exploration both within and outside of EEZs, only a few countries, notably New Zealand, have established legal and institutional frameworks for the future development of deep seabed mining.\n\nPapua New Guinea was the first country to approve a permit for the exploration of minerals in the deep seabed. Solwara 1 was awarded its licence and environmental permits despite three independent reviews of the environmental impact statement mine finding significant gaps and flaws in the underlying science ( see http://www.deepseaminingoutofourdepth.org/report/).\n\nThe ISA has recently arranged a workshop in Australia where scientific experts, industry representatives, legal specialists and academics worked towards improving existing regulations and ensuring that development of seabed minerals does not cause serious and permanent damage to the marine environment.\n\nThe deep sea contains many different resources available for extraction, including silver, gold, copper, manganese, cobalt, and zinc. These raw materials are found in various forms on the sea floor, usually in higher concentrations than terrestrial mines.\n\nMinerals and related depths\n\nDiamonds are also mined from the seabed by De Beers and others. Nautilus Minerals Inc and Neptune Minerals are planning to mine the offshore waters of Papua New Guinea and New Zealand.\n\nRecent technological advancements have given rise to the use remotely operated vehicles (ROVs) to collect mineral samples from prospective mine sites. Using drills and other cutting tools, the ROVs obtain samples to be analyzed for precious materials. Once a site has been located, a mining ship or station is set up to mine the area.\n\nThere are two predominant forms of mineral extraction being considered for full-scale operations: continuous-line bucket system (CLB) and the hydraulic suction system. The CLB system is the preferred method of nodule collection. It operates much like a conveyor-belt, running from the sea floor to the surface of the ocean where a ship or mining platform extracts the desired minerals, and returns the tailings to the ocean. Hydraulic suction mining lowers a pipe to the seafloor which transfers nodules up to the mining ship. Another pipe from the ship to the seafloor returns the tailings to the area of the mining site.\n\nIn recent years, the most promising mining areas have been the Central and Eastern Manus Basin around Papua New Guinea and the crater of Conical Seamount to the east. These locations have shown promising amounts of gold in the area's sulfide deposits (an average of 26 parts per million). The relatively shallow water depth of 1050 m, along with the close proximity of a gold processing plant makes for an excellent mining site.\n\nDeep sea mining project value chain can be differentiated using the criteria of the type of activities where the value is actually added. During prospecting, exploration and resource assessment phases the value is added to intangible assets, for the extraction, processing and distribution phases the value increases with relation to product processing. There is an intermediate phase – the pilot mining test which could be considered to be an inevitable step in the shift from “resources” to “reserves” classification, where the actual value starts.\n\nExploration phase involves such operations as locating, sea bottom scanning and sampling using technologies such as echo-sounders, side scan sonars, deep-towed photography, ROVs, AUVs. The resource valuation incorporates the examination of data in the context of potential mining feasibility. \n\nValue chain based on product processing involves such operations as actual mining (or extraction), vertical transport, storing, offloading, transport, metallurgical processing for final products. Unlike the exploration phase, the value increases after each operation on processed material eventually delivered to the metal market. Logistics involves technologies analogous to those applied in land mines. This is also the case for the metallurgical processing, although rich and polymetallic mineral composition which distinguishes marine minerals from its land analogs requires special treatment of the deposit. Environmental monitoring and impact assessment analysis relate to the temporal and spatial discharges of the mining system if they occur, sediment plumes, disturbance to the benthic environment and the analysis of the regions affected by seafloor machines. The step involves an examination of disturbances near the seafloor, as well as disturbances near the surface. Observations include baseline comparisons for the sake of quantitative impact assessments for ensuring the sustainability of the mining process.\n\nResearch shows that polymetallic nodule fields are hotspots of abundance and diversity for a highly vulnerable abyssal fauna. Because deep sea mining is a relatively new field, the complete consequences of full-scale mining operations on this ecosystem are unknown. However, some researchers have said they believe that removal of parts of the sea floor will result in disturbances to the benthic layer, increased toxicity of the water column and sediment plumes from tailings. Removing parts of the sea floor could disturb the habitat of benthic organisms, with unknown long-term effects. Aside from the direct impact of mining the area, some researchers and environmental activists have raised concerns about leakage, spills and corrosion that could alter the mining area’s chemical makeup.\n\nAmong the impacts of deep sea mining, sediment plumes could have the greatest impact. Plumes are caused when the tailings from mining (usually fine particles) are dumped back into the ocean, creating a cloud of particles floating in the water. Two types of plumes occur: near bottom plumes and surface plumes. Near bottom plumes occur when the tailings are pumped back down to the mining site. The floating particles increase the turbidity, or cloudiness, of the water, clogging filter-feeding apparatuses used by benthic organisms. Surface plumes cause a more serious problem. Depending on the size of the particles and water currents the plumes could spread over vast areas. The plumes could impact zooplankton and light penetration, in turn affecting the food web of the area.\n\nAn article in the Harvard Environmental Law Review in April 2018 argued that \"the 'new global gold rush' of deep sea mining shares many features with past resource scrambles – including a general disregard for environmental and social impacts, and the marginalisation of indigenous peoples and their rights\". The Foreshore and Seabed Act (2004) ignited fierce indigenous opposition in New Zealand, as its claiming of the seabed for the Crown in order to open it up to mining conflicted with Māori claims to their customary lands, who protested the Act as a \"sea grab.\" Later, this act was repealed after an investigation from the UN Commission on Human Rights upheld charges of discrimination. The Act was subsequently repealed and replaced with the Marine and Coastal Area Bill (2011). However, conflicts between indigenous sovereignty and seabed mining continue. Organizations like the Deep Sea Mining Campaign and Alliance of Solwara Warriors, comprising 20 communities in the Bismarck and Solomon Sea, are examples of organizations that are seeking to ban seabed mining in Papua New Guinea, where the Solwara 1 project is set to occur, and in the Pacific. They argue primarily that decision-making about deep sea mining has not adequately addressed Free Prior and Informed Consent from affected communities and have not adhered to the Precautionary Principle, a rule proposed by the 1982 UN World Charter for Nature which informs the ISA regulatory framework for mineral exploitation of the deep sea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17110306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17110306", "title": "Erosion and tectonics", "text": "Erosion and tectonics\n\nThe interaction between erosion and tectonics has been a topic of debate since the early 1990s. While the tectonic effects on surface processes such as erosion have long been recognized (for example, river formation as a result of tectonic uplift), the opposite (erosional effects on tectonic activity) has only recently been addressed. The primary questions surrounding this topic are what types of interactions exist between erosion and tectonics and what are the implications of these interactions. While this is still a matter of debate, one thing is clear, the Earth's landscape is a product of two factors: tectonics, which can create topography and maintain relief through surface and rock uplift, and climate, which mediates the erosional processes that wear away upland areas over time. The interaction of these processes can form, modify, or destroy geomorphic features on the Earth’s surface.\nThe term tectonics refers to the study of the Earth's surface structure and the ways in which it changes over time. Tectonic processes typically occur at plate boundaries which are one of three types: convergent boundaries, divergent boundaries, or transform boundaries. These processes form and modify the topography of the Earth's surface, effectively increasing relief through the mechanisms of isostatic uplift, crustal thickening, and deformation in the form of faulting and folding. Increased elevations, in relation to regional base levels, lead to steeper river channel gradients and an increase in orographically localized precipitation, ultimately resulting in drastically increased erosion rates. The topography, and general relief, of a given area determines the velocity at which surface runoff will flow, ultimately determining the potential erosive power of the runoff. Longer, steeper slopes are more prone to higher rates of erosion during periods of heavy rainfall than shorter, gradually sloping areas. Thus, large mountain ranges, and other areas of high relief, formed through tectonic uplift will have significantly higher rates of erosion. Additionally, tectonics can directly influence erosion rates on a short timescale, as is clear in the case of earthquakes, which can trigger landslides and weaken surrounding rock through seismic disturbances.\n\nWhile tectonic uplift in any case will lead to some form of increased elevation, thus higher rates of erosion, a primary focus is set on isostatic uplift as it provides a fundamental connection between the causes and effects of erosional-tectonic interactions.\n\nUnderstanding the principle of isostasy is a key element to understanding the interactions and feedbacks shared between erosion and tectonics. The principle of isostasy states that when free to move vertically, lithosphere floats at an appropriate level in the asthenosphere so that the pressure at a depth of compensation in the asthenosphere well below the base of the lithosphere is the same. Isostatic uplift is both a cause and an effect of erosion. When deformation occurs in the form of crustal thickening an isostatic response is induced causing the thickened crust to sink, and surrounding thinner crust to uplift. The resulting surface uplift leads to enhanced elevations, which in turn induces erosion. Alternatively, when a large amount of material is eroded away from the Earth's surface uplift occurs in order to maintain isostatic equilibrium. Because of isostasy, high erosion rates over significant horizontal areas can effectively suck up material from the lower crust and/or upper mantle. This process is known as \"isostatic rebound\" and is analogous to Earth's response following the removal of large glacial ice sheets.\n\nIsostatic uplift and corresponding erosion are responsible for the formation of regional-scale geologic features as well as localized structures. Two such examples include:\n\nChannel flow describes the process through which hot, viscous crustal material flows horizontally between the upper crust and lithospheric mantle, and is eventually pushed to the surface. This model aims to explain features common to metamorphic hinterlands of some collisional orogens, most notably the Himalaya–Tibetan plateau system. In mountainous areas with heavy rainfall (thus, high erosion rates) deeply incising rivers will form. As these rivers wear away the Earth's surface two things occur: (1) pressure is reduced on the underlying rocks effectively making them weaker and (2) the underlying material moves closer to the surface. This reduction of crustal strength, coupled with the erosional exhumation, allows for the diversion of the underlying channel flow toward the Earth's surface.\n\nThe term erosion refers to the group of natural processes, including weathering, dissolution, abrasion, corrosion, and transportation, by which material is worn away from the Earth's surface to be transported and deposited in other locations.\n\nThe feedback of erosion on tectonics is given by the transportation of surface, or near-surface, mass (rock, soil, sand, regolith, etc.) to a new location. This redistribution of material can have profound effects on the state of gravitational stresses in the area, dependent on the magnitude of mass transported. Because tectonic processes are highly dependent on the current state of gravitational stresses, redistribution of surface material can lead to tectonic activity. While erosion in all of its forms, by definition, wears away material from the Earth's surface, the process of mass wasting as a product of deep fluvial incision has the highest tectonic implications.\n\nMass wasting is the geomorphic process by which surface material move downslope typically as a mass, largely under the force of gravity As rivers flow down steeply sloping mountains, deep channel incision occurs as the river's flow wears away the underlying rock. Large channel incision progressively decreases the amount of gravitational force needed for a slope failure event to occur, eventually resulting in mass wasting. Removal of large amounts of surface mass in this fashion will induce an isostatic response resulting in uplift until equilibrium is reached.\n\nRecent studies have shown that erosional and tectonic processes have an effect on the structural evolution of some geologic features, most notably orogenic wedges. Highly useful sand box models, in which horizontal layers of sand are slowly pressed against a backstop, have shown that the geometries, structures, and kinematics of orogenic wedge formation with and without erosion and sedimentation are significantly different. Numerical models also show that the evolution of orogens, their final tectonic structure, and the potential development of a high plateau, all are sensitive to the long term climate over the mountains, for example, the concentration of precipitation in one side of the orogen due to orographic lift under a dominant wind direction.\n\n"}
{"id": "425344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425344", "title": "Geography of Mars", "text": "Geography of Mars\n\nThe geography of Mars, also known as areography, entails the delineation and characterization of regions on Mars. Martian geography is mainly focused on what is called physical geography on Earth; that is the distribution of physical features across Mars and their cartographic representations.\n\nThe first observations of Mars were from ground-based telescopes. The history of these observations are marked by the oppositions of Mars, when the planet is closest to Earth and hence is most easily visible, which occur every couple of years. Even more notable are the perihelic oppositions of Mars which occur approximately every 16 years, and are distinguished because Mars is close to perihelion making it even closer to Earth.\n\nIn September 1877, (a perihelic opposition of Mars occurred on September 5), Italian astronomer Giovanni Schiaparelli published the first detailed map of Mars. These maps notably contained features he called \"canali\" (\"channels\"), that were later shown to be an optical illusion. These \"canali\" were supposedly long straight lines on the surface of Mars to which he gave names of famous rivers on Earth. His term was popularly mistranslated as \"canals\", and so started the Martian canal controversy.\n\nFollowing these observations, it was a long-held belief that Mars contained vast seas and vegetation. It was not until spacecraft visited the planet during NASA's Mariner missions in the 1960s that these myths were dispelled. Some maps of Mars were made using the data from these missions, but it wasn't until the Mars Global Surveyor mission, launched in 1996 and ending in late 2006, that complete, extremely detailed maps were obtained. These maps are now available online at http://www.google.com/mars/\n\nThe United States Geological Survey defines thirty cartographic quadrangles for the surface of Mars. These can be seen below.\n\nGiven that it is a planet, the geography of Mars varies considerably. However, the dichotomy of Martian topography is striking: northern plains flattened by lava flows contrast with the southern highlands, pitted and cratered by ancient impacts. The surface of Mars as seen from Earth is consequently divided into two kinds of areas, with differing albedo. The paler plains covered with dust and sand rich in reddish iron oxides were once thought of as Martian 'continents' and given names like Arabia Terra (\"land of Arabia\") or Amazonis Planitia (\"Amazonian plain\"). The dark features were thought to be seas, hence their names Mare Erythraeum, Mare Sirenum and Aurorae Sinus. The largest dark feature seen from Earth is Syrtis Major Planum.\n\nThe shield volcano, Olympus Mons (\"Mount Olympus\"), rises 22 km above the surrounding volcanic plains, and is the highest known mountain on any planet in the solar system. It is in a vast upland region called Tharsis, which contains several large volcanos. See list of mountains on Mars. The Tharsis region of Mars also has the solar system's largest canyon system, Valles Marineris or the \"Mariner Valley\", which is 4,000 km long and 7 km deep. Mars is also scarred by countless impact craters. The largest of these is the Hellas impact basin. See list of craters on Mars.\n\nMars has two permanent polar ice caps, the northern one located at Planum Boreum and the southern one at Planum Australe.\n\nThe difference between Mars' highest and lowest points is nearly 30 km (from the top of Olympus Mons at an altitude of 21.2 km to the bottom of the Hellas impact basin at an altitude of 8.2 km below the datum). In comparison, the difference between Earth's highest and lowest points (Mount Everest and the Mariana Trench) is only 19.7 km. Combined with the planets' different radii, this means Mars is nearly three times \"rougher\" than Earth.\n\nThe International Astronomical Union's Working Group for Planetary System Nomenclature is responsible for naming Martian surface features.\n\nOn Earth, the zero elevation datum is based on sea level.\nSince Mars has no oceans and hence no 'sea level', it is convenient to define an arbitrary zero-elevation level or \"datum\" for mapping the surface. The datum for Mars is arbitrarily defined in terms of a constant atmospheric pressure.\n\nFrom the Mariner 9 mission up until 2001, this was chosen as 610.5 Pa (6.105 mbar), on the basis that below this pressure liquid water can never be stable (i.e., the triple point of water is at this pressure). This value is only 0.6% of the pressure at sea level on Earth. Note that the choice of this value does not mean that liquid water does exist below this elevation, just that it could were the temperature to exceed 273.16 K (0.01 degrees C, 32.018 degrees F).\n\nIn 2001, Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter data led to a new convention of zero elevation defined as the equipotential surface (gravitational plus rotational) whose average value at the equator is equal to the mean radius of the planet.\n\nMars' equator is defined by its rotation, but the location of its prime meridian was specified, as was Earth's, by choice of an arbitrary point which was accepted by later observers. The German astronomers Wilhelm Beer and Johann Heinrich Mädler selected a small circular feature in the Sinus Meridiani ('Middle Bay' or 'Meridian Bay') as a reference point when they produced the first systematic chart of Mars features in 1830–32. In 1877, their choice was adopted as the prime meridian by the Italian astronomer Giovanni Schiaparelli when he began work on his notable maps of Mars. In 1909 the ephemeris makers decided that it was more important to maintain continuity of the ephemerides as a guide to observations and this definition was \"virtually abandoned.\"\n\nAfter the Mariner spacecraft provided extensive imagery of Mars, in 1972 the Mariner 9 Geodesy/Cartography Group proposed that the prime meridian passed through the center of a small 500 m diameter crater (named Airy-0), located in Sinus Meridiani along the meridian line of Beer and Mädler, thus defining 0.0° longitude with a precision of 0.001°. This model used the planetographic control point network developed by Merton Davies of the RAND Corporation.\n\nAs radiometric techniques increased the precision with which objects could be located on the surface of Mars, the center of a 500 m circular crater was considered to be insufficiently precise for exact measurements. The IAU Working Group on Cartographic Coordinates and Rotational Elements therefore recommended setting the longitude of the Viking 1 lander, for which there were extensive radiometric tracking data, as marking the standard longitude of 47.95137° west. This deﬁnition maintains the position of the center of Airy-0 at 0° longitude, within the tolerance of current cartographic uncertainties.\n\nObservers of Martian topography will notice a dichotomy between the northern and southern hemispheres. Most of the northern hemisphere is flat, with few impact craters, and lies below the conventional ‘zero elevation’ level. In contrast, the southern hemisphere is mountains and highlands, mostly well above zero elevation. The two hemispheres differ in elevation by 1 to 3 km. The border separating the two areas is very interesting to geologists.\n\nOne distinctive feature is the fretted terrain. It contains mesas, knobs, and flat-floored valleys having walls about a mile high. Around many of the mesas and knobs are lobate debris aprons that have been shown to be rock-covered glaciers.\n\nOther interesting features are the large river valleys and outflow channels that cut through the dichotomy.\n\nThe northern lowlands comprise about one-third of the surface of Mars and are relatively flat, with occasional impact craters. The other two-thirds of the Martian surface are the southern highlands. The difference in elevation between the hemispheres is dramatic. Because of the density of impact craters, scientists believe the southern hemisphere to be far older than the northern plains. Much of heavily cratered southern highlands date back to the period of heavy bombardment, the Noachian.\n\nMultiple hypotheses have been proposed to explain the differences. The three most commonly accepted are a single mega-impact, multiple impacts, and endogenic processes such as mantle convection. Both impact-related hypotheses involve processes that could have occurred before the end of the primordial bombardment, implying that the crustal dichotomy has its origins early in the history of Mars.\n\nThe giant impact hypothesis, originally proposed in the early 1980s, was met with skepticism due to the impact area's non-radial (elliptical) shape, where a circular pattern would be stronger support for impact by larger object(s). But a 2008 study provided additional research that supports a single giant impact. Using geologic data, researchers found support for the single impact of a large object hitting Mars at approximately a 45-degree angle. Additional evidence analyzing Martian rock chemistry for post-impact upwelling of mantle material would further support the giant impact theory.\n\nAlthough better remembered for mapping the Moon starting in 1830, Johann Heinrich Mädler and Wilhelm Beer were the first \"areographers\". They started off by establishing once and for all that most of the surface features were permanent, and pinned down Mars' rotation period. In 1840, Mädler combined ten years of observations and drew the first map of Mars ever made. Rather than giving names to the various markings they mapped, Beer and Mädler simply designated them with letters; Meridian Bay (Sinus Meridiani) was thus feature \"a\".\n\nOver the next twenty years or so, as instruments improved and the number of observers also increased, various Martian features acquired a hodge-podge of names. To give a couple of examples, Solis Lacus was known as the \"Oculus\" (the Eye), and Syrtis Major was usually known as the \"Hourglass Sea\" or the \"Scorpion\". In 1858, it was also dubbed the \"Atlantic Canale\" by the Jesuit astronomer Angelo Secchi. Secchi commented that it \"seems to play the role of the Atlantic which, on Earth, separates the Old Continent from the New\" —this was the first time the fateful \"canale\", which in Italian can mean either \"channel\" or \"canal\", had been applied to Mars.\n\nIn 1867, Richard Anthony Proctor drew up a map of Mars-based, somewhat crudely, on the Rev. William Rutter Dawes' earlier drawings of 1865, then the best ones available. Proctor explained his system of nomenclature by saying, \"I have applied to the different features the names of those observers who have studied the physical peculiarities presented by Mars.\" Here are some of his names, paired with those later used by Schiaparelli in his Martian map created between 1877 and 1886. Schiaparelli's names were generally adopted and are the names actually used today:\n\nProctor's nomenclature has often been criticized, mainly because so many of his names honored English astronomers, but also because he used many names more than once. In particular, Dawes appeared no fewer than \"six\" times (Dawes Ocean, Dawes Continent, Dawes Sea, Dawes Strait, Dawes Isle, and Dawes Forked Bay). Even so, Proctor's names are not without charm, and for all their shortcomings they were a foundation on which later astronomers would improve.\n\nToday, names of Martian features derive from a number of sources, but the names of the large features are derived primarily from the maps of Mars made in 1886 by the Italian astronomer Giovanni Schiaparelli. Schiaparelli named the larger features of Mars primarily using names from Greek mythology and to a lesser extent the Bible. Mars Large albedo features retain many of the older names, but are often updated to reflect new knowledge of the nature of the features. For example, 'Nix Olympica' (the snows of Olympus) has become Olympus Mons (Mount Olympus).\n\nLarge Martian craters are named after important scientists and science fiction writers; smaller ones are named after towns and villages on Earth.\n\nVarious landforms studied by the Mars Exploration Rovers are given temporary names or nicknames to identify them during exploration and investigation. However, it is hoped that the International Astronomical Union will make permanent the names of certain major features, such as the Columbia Hills, which were named after the seven astronauts who died in the Space Shuttle \"Columbia\" disaster.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27742186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27742186", "title": "George Davidson Medal", "text": "George Davidson Medal\n\nThe George Davidson Medal is awarded by the American Geographical Society for the \"exceptional achievement in research for exploration in the Pacific Ocean or the lands bordering therein.\" In 1946, the American Geographical Society received a bequest of $5000 from his daughter Ellinor Campbell Davidson to established the medal and a research fund to honor her father. The medal was designed by American sculptor Paul Manship in 1951.\n\nGeorge Davidson was a geographer and scientist noted for his work with the U.S. government exploring and charting the western United States and Alaska. Davidson was a geodist for the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, working heavily in the Pacific waters. He later became a professor at the University of California. In 1907, he published \"The Discovery of San Francisco Bay\".\n\nThe following people received the award in the year specified:\n\n"}
{"id": "27984834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27984834", "title": "Hamidullah Amin", "text": "Hamidullah Amin\n\nHamidullah Amin (born 1941) is a politician in Afghanistan, serving as the chancellor of Kabul University since 2008. He also worked at the university prior to fleeing Afghanistan in 1988.\n\nAmin completed his M.A. in geography at Durham University in 1968, entitled \"The role of communication in the development of Afghanistan\". He returned to Afghanistan to work for Kabul University, as well as serving as a visiting lecturer at the University of Nebraska at Omaha. During this time he published his most influential English language work, \"A Geography of Afghanistan\". and remained after the Soviet invasion. He eventually fled in 1988, and worked for 14 years at Macquarie University in Australia, before returning to Kabul to become Chancellor. During his time, Amin has worked to increase the number of female students at the university, and in higher education in Afghanistan in general.\n\nHe is fluent in Pashto, Dari, English and Urdu.\n\n"}
{"id": "33077254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33077254", "title": "Hendrik Jacob Wikar", "text": "Hendrik Jacob Wikar\n\nHenrik Jakob Wikar or \"Hendrik Jakob Wikar\" (born 28 October 1752 Kokkola, Finland (at that time Sweden)) was a Finnish explorer who travelled in Southern Africa and wrote his journal describing the life of the khoisan people.\n\nWikar's father was Jakob Johan Wikar, a land surveyor and a deputy of the Riksdag of the Estates, and his mother was Margareta Carlborg, his father's second wife.\n\nWikar came from Ostrobothnia and studied in The Royal Academy of Turku in 1769. In 1773 he was employed in Holland by Dutch East India Company. He worked as a clerk in Cape Town in the company's hospital. He did not manage well and left in 1775 to the north of the Colony where he stayed for four years. From 1778 to July 1779 he wrote his journal there. He was convicted in 1779 as a runagate but the journal saved him and he was pardoned autumn 1779, probably because the journal included some important notes for the Company. He described the rituals and customs of the khoisan people, and numerous scientists have used his records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30236368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30236368", "title": "ISO 3166-2:SX", "text": "ISO 3166-2:SX\n\nISO 3166-2:SX is the entry for Sint Maarten in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently no ISO 3166-2 codes are defined in the entry for Sint Maarten. The country has no defined subdivisions.\n\nSint Maarten, a constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, is officially assigned the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code . Moreover, it is also assigned the ISO 3166-2 code under the .\n\nThe following changes to the entry had been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n"}
{"id": "54548045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54548045", "title": "Iceberg A-68", "text": "Iceberg A-68\n\nIceberg A-68 calved from the Larsen C Ice Shelf in July 2017. With a surface area of 5,800 square kilometres, twice the size of Luxembourg, larger than Delaware and weighing one trillion tonnes, it is one of the largest recorded icebergs, the largest being B-15 which measured 11,000 square kilometres before breaking up. The calving of A-68 reduced the overall size of the Larsen C shelf by 12 percent.\n\nThere is no projected path at this point; however, historical data shows many icebergs broken off from the Antarctic Peninsula reach the South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.\n\nThe name \"A-68\" was assigned by the US National Ice Center.\n\nA-68 was part of Larsen C, a section of the Larsen Ice Shelf. The scientific community is divided whether the calving is the result of climate change, or merely a natural occurrence. Scientists found the crack beginning to form in November 2016, and others suggested that it might have broken off as early as a decade ago. According to scientists observing the iceberg's path, A-68 \"didn't just break through in one clean shot, [but] it formed a lace-network of cracks first.\" \n\nSatellite images from ESA and the European Union's Copernicus Program show that the iceberg is splintering, forming more icebergs in the process.\n\nScientists are looking into the possibility of the ice shelf collapsing as a result of the split with A-68, or whether the iceberg was the \"cork\" for Larsen C that allows ice to flow more freely into the sea, thereby contributing to rising sea levels.\n\nSince November 2017, satelite images show A-68 is slowly drifting northward, with a widening gap to the main shelf. The gap was approximately five kilometers wide and contained a thin layer of loose, floating ice and a cluster of over 11 'smaller' bergs, one much larger than the rest.\n\nA British expedition on intended to sample the marine life at A-68 cleavage line in March 2018, but had to turn back due to thick sea ice.\n\nIn July 2018 A-68 started to drift northwards.\n"}
{"id": "1352944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1352944", "title": "Iceberg B-15", "text": "Iceberg B-15\n\nIceberg B-15 was the world's largest recorded iceberg. It measured around long and wide, with a surface area of —larger than the whole island of Jamaica. Calved from the Ross Ice Shelf of Antarctica in March 2000, Iceberg B-15 broke up into smaller icebergs, the largest of which was named Iceberg B-15A. In 2003, B-15A drifted away from Ross Island into the Ross Sea and headed north, eventually breaking up into several smaller icebergs in October 2005.\n\nIn the last weeks of March 2000, Iceberg B-15 calved from the Ross Ice Shelf near Roosevelt Island, Antarctica. The calving occurred along pre-existing cracks in the ice shelf. The iceberg measured around long and wide, with a surface area of —larger than the island of Jamaica. Scientists believe that the enormous piece of ice broke away as part of a long-term natural cycle, which occurs every fifty to one hundred years. In 2000, 2002, and 2003, Iceberg B-15 broke up into several pieces, the largest of which, B-15A, covered of the sea surface.\n\nIn November 2003, after the separation from B-15J, B-15A drifted away from Ross Island on the open waters of the Ross Sea. In December 2003, a small knife-shaped iceberg, (about 300 km²), detached itself from the main body of B-15A and started drifting northward. By January 2005, prevailing currents caused B-15A to drift toward the Drygalski Ice Tongue, a long extension of the land-based David Glacier, which flows through the coastal mountains of Victoria Land. A few kilometres from the ice tongue, the iceberg became stranded on a shallow seamount before resuming its northward course. On 10 April 2005, B-15A collided with the ice tongue, breaking off the tip of the ice tongue; the iceberg seemed unaffected by the collision.\n\nIceberg B-15A continued to drift along the coast leaving McMurdo Sound. On 27–28 October 2005, the iceberg ran aground off Cape Adare in Victoria Land and broke into several smaller pieces, the largest of which was still named B-15A (now measuring approximately ). Three additional pieces were named B-15P, B-15M, and B-15N. Iceberg B-15A then moved farther up north and broke up into more pieces. These were spotted by air force fisheries patrol on 3 November 2006. On 21 November 2006 several large pieces were seen just 60 km off the coast of Timaru, New Zealand—the largest measured about , rising from the surface of the ocean.\n\nOn 29 January 2001, researchers from the University of Chicago and the University of Wisconsin installed weather and Global Positioning System instruments on Iceberg B-15A. It was the first time an iceberg had been monitored in this way. The data gathered led to an unprecedented understanding of how giant icebergs make their way through the waters of Antarctica and beyond.\n\nIceberg B-15A collided with the Drygalski Ice Tongue on 10 April 2005, breaking off an section of the ice tongue. Antarctic maps needed to be redrawn.\n\nB-15A prevented ocean currents and winds from assisting in the 2004–2005 summer break-up of the sea ice in McMurdo Sound, and was an obstacle to the annual resupply ships to three research stations. The floe was expected to cause a catastrophic decline in the population of Adélie penguins, as it added considerable distances which parent penguins must travel back from the sea to their chicks. Weddell seals and Skuas are also inhabitants of McMurdo Sound and their populations may have been affected as well.\n\nIn October 2006, a study showed that a large storm in the Gulf of Alaska generated a trans-Pacific ocean swell that may have contributed to breaking B15-A into many pieces on 27 October 2005. The swell travelled from Alaska to Antarctica over six days. Scientists are studying this event as an example of how weather in one area can have effects in other parts of the world, and with concern over the effects on global warming.\n\nA more detailed study in 2010, however, shows that the iceberg breakup was principally caused by repeated grounding with near-coastal bathymetry near Cape Adare, Victoria Land.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15368452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15368452", "title": "Integration of traffic data with navigation systems", "text": "Integration of traffic data with navigation systems\n\nIntegration of traffic data with navigation systems enables navigation systems to use traffic and other related data to optimise routing and travel times by taking into account traffic conditions and other disruptions to traffic flows. The integration may occur in a number of ways. For example, integrated automobile navigation systems use an on-board navigation system and cellular telephone. The navigation system would use the global positioning system (GPS) to position the automobile with respect to streets in a map database, to determine a route to the destination and to update the location as the automobile moves. A cellular telephone in the automobile may then communicate with a traffic information server to obtain travel times for each street segment of the route, which would then be used to refine the planned route, or to offer to the driver as an alternative. The cellular telephone can also be used to provide dynamic travel time information to the traffic information server, with each automobile in the system periodically transferring travel times for each segment that is traversed. The traffic information server would then analyse travel times to update travel time data for each street segment, which is then available to other users when they next connect to the traffic server. Other integration models exist.\n\nAccording to Consumer Reports, the data may be transmitted through Bluetooth, FM, or XM. \n\nIn 2006, Clear Channel made a deal with BMW to supply traffic data for the carmaker's navigation units. \n\nAccording to GPS Review, the suppliers of traffic data to the navigation units get their own data from \"road sensors, local departments of transportation, data collected from operators of large fleets of vehicles, and other manual sources such as traffic helicopters and listening to police scanners.\" \n\nPatents have been taken out for services that will collect movement data from GPS devices on the road to determine the current travel time between various points.\n\n"}
{"id": "55883335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55883335", "title": "Japan voyage", "text": "Japan voyage\n\nThe Japan voyage (\"viagem do Japão\" in Portuguese) was a trade route established by the Portuguese from 1550 to 1639 linking Goa, then capital of the Portuguese India, to Japan. This lucrative annual trip was carried out under monopoly of the Portuguese crown, and was in charge of a Captain general. The charge of Captain general of the Japan's trip was officially attributed by the governor of Portuguese India as a reward for services rendered. The large ships involved in this trade were referred to as the \"nau do trato\", the silver ships, China's ships, and became known among the Japanese as Kurofune (black ships), a term that came to be used to name all Western ships that supplied in Japan during the Edo period.\n\nUpon arriving in Japan in 1543, Portuguese merchants and adventurers engaged in a profitable trade on the island of Kyushu, on their own ships and Chinese reeds, without a stable port. Because of a ban on the relations between China and Japan, they acted as intermediaries. In 1550, the importance of this trade led to the creation of an annual trip under the monopoly of the Portuguese Crown. To this end, a chief captain was appointed. This was a coveted position assigned by the official authorities as a reward for services rendered. The right to carry on the \"Japan voyage\" was donated by the local Crown entities such as the city of Macau, Kochi, Malacca. Later, it was auctioned in Goa to the highest bidder.\n\nGiven the long distance between Goa and Japan, the route initially departed from Malacca. After several attempts to create an intermediate stop in China, in 1554 Leonel de Sousa, the chief captain of Japan's voyage, reached an agreement with Canton authorities to legalize the Portuguese trade, on condition of paying specially stipulated customs duties. From 1557, the Portuguese achieved the official establishment in Macau. The city became integrated in a triangular trade that finished in Japan. Then, in 1570, after an agreement with the local daimyō, they founded the city of Nagasaki. The ship sailed from Goa in April or May, loaded with fabrics, glass and glass objects, Flanders watches and Portuguese wines.\n\n"}
{"id": "35597681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35597681", "title": "Japan–South Korea sports rivalries", "text": "Japan–South Korea sports rivalries\n\nBecause of their proximity and similar sporting cultures, South Korea and Japan are frequent rivals in a wide variety of international sports.\n\n\n\nSouth Korea and Japan has had a long history in judo, especially with the two nations' dominance in Asia.\n\nIn recent times, the rivalries have been greatest in the men's half-lightweight, lightweight and middleweight categories.\n\nIn the men's half-lightweight, rivalries stemmed to the quarter-final at the 2012 Olympic Games, that featured Japan's Masashi Ebinuma and South Korea's Cho Jun-ho. The decision was first called in Cho's favor, and then recalled to hand the win to Ebinuma. It is one of the most controversial fights in Olympic judo.\n\nEbinuma had dominated the weight division from 2011-2014, winning three world championships, before South Korean An Baul broke his streak by winning the 2015 World Championships.\n\nIn the men's lightweight, Korea had a surge of dominance in the division with Wang Ki-chun, who won the world championships in 2007 and 2009. In 2010, Japan's Hiroyuki Akimoto took over Wang as the world champion, marking a new era of Japanese dominance in the men's lightweight. Fellow countrymen Riki Nakaya and Shohei Ono then shared domination, with Nakaya winning in 2011 and 2014, and Ono in 2013 and 2015. In the upcoming 2016 Olympics, it is widely thought that newly formed rivals Ono and Japanese-born Korean An Chang-rim will be favorites for gold.\n\nIn the men's middleweight, one of Japan's weaker divisions alongside the half-middleweight, South Korea had the upper hand in the past decade, producing two world champions in the form of Lee Kyu-won (2009) and Gwak Dong-han (2015), and an Olympic champion in Song Dae-nam. Japan's closest finish in recent times was in 2010 and 2011 with Daiki Nishiyama's silver medals. Today, Gwak has formed a rivalry with several Japanese middleweights, most notably Nishiyama (3-3), Mashu Baker (2-1 in favor of Baker) and Yuya Yoshida (1-1), and will most likely compete against them at the 2016 Olympics.\n\nIn the team's competition, Japan and South Korea rekindled their vie for the number one country in judo at the 2015 World Championships, meeting in the final. With wins from Ebinuma, reigning world champion Takanori Nagase and Takeshi Ojitani, Japan claimed their second consecutive team gold while Korea settled for silver in their first team fight in five years. \n"}
{"id": "53017791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53017791", "title": "John D. Eyles", "text": "John D. Eyles\n\nJohn D. Eyles (born 1946) is a Canadian geographer, having been a Distinguished University Professor at McMaster University. In 2001, he was elected fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.\n"}
{"id": "50365324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50365324", "title": "Jupiter Artland", "text": "Jupiter Artland\n\nJupiter Artland is a contemporary sculpture park and art gallery in West Lothian, Scotland. Jupiter Artland Foundation is a registered charity that is subsidized by classes, workshops, events, ticket sales, and donations. \n\nJupiter Artland is open to general visits between May and September.\n\nJupiter Artland sits in the grounds of Bonnington House, a 19th-century country house around west of the city of Edinburgh.\n\nThe grounds of the house have been developed as the sculpture park and two new wings designed by Benjamin Tindall Architects were completed in 2015 to provide indoor gallery space. \n\nThe sculpture collection was established in 1999 by art collectors Robert and Nicky Wilson and \"focuses on nurturing the work of contemporary artists and commissioning site-specific work for its 120-acres of woodland and meadow.\"\n\nIn April 2016, Jupiter Artland was shortlisted for the 2016 Museum of the Year award.\n\nIn 2018 it was a filming location for BBC Four's \"Magic Numbers: Hannah Fry's Mysterious World of Maths\", presented by mathematician Dr Hannah Fry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2947419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2947419", "title": "Kaza", "text": "Kaza\n\nA kaza (, \"qaḍāʾ\", , plural: , \"aqḍiyah\", ; ) is an administrative division historically used in the Ottoman Empire and currently used in several of its successor states. The term is from Ottoman Turkish and means \"jurisdiction\"; it is often translated \"district\", \"sub-district\" (though this also applies to a nahiye), or \"juridical district\".\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, a kaza was originally a \"geographical area subject to the legal and administrative jurisdiction of a \"kadı\". With the first Tanzimat reforms of 1839, the administrative duties of the \"kadı\" were transferred to a governor \"(kaymakam)\", with the \"kadıs\" acting as judges of Islamic law. In the Tanzimat era, the kaza became an administrative district with the 1864 Provincial Reform Law, which was implemented over the following decade. A kaza unified the jurisdiction of a governor \"(kaymakam)\" appointed by the Ministry of the Interior, a treasurer (chief finance officer), and a judge \"(kadı)\" in a single administrative unit. It was part of efforts of the Porte to establish uniform, rational administration across the empire.\n\nThe kaza was a subdivision of a sanjak and corresponded roughly to a city with its surrounding villages. Kazas, in turn, were divided into nahiyes (governed by \"müdürs\" and \"mütesellims\") and villages (\"karye\", governed by \"muhtars\"). The 1871 revisions to the administrative law established the nahiye (still governing a \"müdür\"), as an intermediate level between the kaza and the village.\n\nThe early Republic of Turkey continued to use the term \"kaza\" until it renamed them ilçe in the 1920s.\n\nThe kaza was also formerly a second-level administrative division in Syria, but it is now called a mintaqah.\n\nThe kaza or qadaa is used to refer to the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "27132953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27132953", "title": "Kempty Falls", "text": "Kempty Falls\n\nKempty Falls is a waterfall in Ram Gaon and at the south of Kempty, in the Tehri Garhwal District of Uttarakhand, India. It is from Mussoorie on the Chakrata Road, and from Dehradun. It is nearly 1364 meters above sea level, at 78°-02’East longitude and 30° -29’North latitude. The Kempty Falls, and the area around is surrounded by high mountain ranges at an altitude of 4500 feet. There is an estimated tourist inflow to the Falls of over 10 lakh (one million).\n\nKempty Falls were developed as a tourist destination by British officer John Mekinan, around 1835. The name Kempty is probably derived from the word 'camp-tea'. A stream of water running throughout the year starting from the southwest of the village of Banglow ki kandi moves northwest and falls from 4,500 ft. Splitting into five other cascades, the water falls a further 40 feet.\n\nThe nearest medical centres are at Dehradun, Mussoorie and Kempty, the nearest railway station at Dehradun, and the nearest airport the Jolly Grant Airport at Dehradun.\n\n"}
{"id": "46294435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46294435", "title": "Kären Wigen", "text": "Kären Wigen\n\nKären Esther Wigen (born December 29, 1958) is an American historian, geographer, author and educator. She is a history professor at Stanford University.\n\nWigen was born in East Lansing, Michigan, United States. She graduated from University of Michigan in 1980, where she studied Japanese literature. She earned her doctorate at the University of California at Berkeley in geography in 1990.\n\nWigen taught at Duke University beginning in 1990. Currently she is Frances and Charles Field Professor of History, Stanford University. She specializes in East Asia, and she teaches Japanese history and history of cartography.\n\nWigen's first book, \"The Making of a Japanese Periphery, 1750-1920\" (1995), explores southern Nagano Prefecture in Japan and how the silk industry transformed it. \"The Making of Japanese Periphery, 1750-1920\" won the 1992 John K. Fairbank Prize of the American Historical Association.\n\nShe studied the same locality in her second book, \"A Malleable Map: Geographies of Restoration in Central Japan, 1600-1912\"(2010), exploring the roles of cartography, chorography, and regionalism. \"A Malleable Map\", wrote one reviewer, examines how \"protoindustrial enterprises\" such as sericulture and papercraft appeared on maps and reflected larger economic and political changes over roughly four centuries from the Tokugawa period through the Meiji period. Wigen focuses on how the relationship between regional and national identities \"played an integral role in the creation of modern Japan\". She argues that the pictorial and nonpictorial ways in which the geographical location of Shinano was shown redefined the ways in which people conceived of the place. These ways were \"malleable\" because they changed according to the needs and priorities of Tokugawa shoguns, merchants, Meiji officials, travelers, and scholars.\n\nHer third book, \"\" (1997), co-authored with Martin Lewis, explains why the present system of classifying certain landmasses as \"continents\" is comparatively recent and derived more from historical accident and political concerns than from natural geographical features. Reviewers also generally welcomed \"The Myth of Continents\". One noted that readers would find it a \"useful volume\" which dealt with Eurocentrism, Afrocentrism, Orientalism, postcolonial thought, and geographic education. Because it summarized classic and contemporary research, the volume was \"an important stepping-stone between frequently obtuse, jargon-laden academic works on the one hand, and popular views of geography on the other.\" Lewis and Wigen's concern is metageography, which they define as \"the set of spatial structures through which people order their knowledge of the world\" They find that geographies are \"much more than just the ways in which societies are stretched across the earth's surface. They also include the contested, arbitrary, power-laden, and often inconsistent ways in which those structures are represented epistemologically.\"\n\nThe anthropologist Rita Kipp in reviewing the book wrote:\n\nKipp confessed \"I found myself in a defensive mood during much of this book, and sometimes bored with what I thought I already knew about Eurocentrism, Orientalism, and the social construction of all scholarly categories and boundaries. The total effect, however, is finally arresting.\"\n\nThe geographical historian James M. Blaut, however, while praising the usefulness of the book, called it \"pretentious\" and their argument \"rather conventional and indeed rather conservative.\" He especially criticized their use of the term \"metageography\": \"the word metageography seems to have been coined by the authors as an impressive-sounding synonym for 'world cultural geography.'\" This led to a forum in the Journal of World History, where Lewis and Wigen replied, and Blaut responded, \"Perhaps I overemphasized the shortcomings; if I did so, it was because the tone of the book is more than a bit off-putting.\"\n\nIn April 2015, she delivered the Edwin O. Reischauer Lectures at Harvard University on the topic \"Where in the World? Mapmaking at the Asia-Pacific Margin, 1600-1900.\"\n\nWigen's latest project is another collaboration, \"Cartographic Japan: A History in Maps\", with co-editors Sugimoto Fumiko and Cary Karacas (forthcoming 2016).\n\n\nWigen married Martin W. Lewis on August 13, 1983. They collaborated on the 1997 book, \"The Myth of Continents\" among other endeavors.\n\n"}
{"id": "21766465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21766465", "title": "LABash", "text": "LABash\n\nLABash is an annual student Landscape Architecture conference held in North America. Each year, LABash is hosted by a different University in the United States or Canada. Students and professionals, have traveled from Canada and some as far away as South Korea and New Zealand to attend. The conference consists of guest speakers, workshops, design charettes, expos and social events.\n\nThe annual event was founded by three Landscape Architecture students James Macgregor from the University of Guelph and Ted Baker and Al Reghr from the University of Toronto ]]. They traveled to several other landscape architecture schools in Canada and the Eastern US to network and exchange knowledge and skills. In 1970, the first LABash conference was held at the University of Guelph, Ontario. It has since become a tradition to host the conference in different universities each year. Landscape architecture professionals, past graduates, current students and professionals and students from related fields such as urban planning, architecture, urban design, and art have joined to celebrate landscape architecture, learn new skills, network with other students and prospective employers, and gain inspiration for their work.\n\nLouisiana State University hosted the Conference with the theme \"Survive\" from February 22 to 24, 2007. It was held in the Baton Rouge Sheraton Hotel. Some speakers included Peter Walker who is known for his project on the World Trade Center Memorial and futurist David Zach.\nThe conference hosted over 700 students and 150 professionals.\nwww.labash.lsu.edu\n\nUniversity of Guelph held the Conference for the fifth time from February 21 to 24, 2008 with the theme \"Frontiers of Landscape Architecture\". Keynote speakers included Craig Kielburger.\n\nThe 2009 Conference was held from February 26 through February 28 at the Pennsylvania State University. The conference was held at the Penn Stater, a hotel on the campus, with one evening of social events held at the Days Inn.\n\nAlcohol was removed from conference events after the first night due to the behavior of student conference attendees from other schools. Three free beer or soda coupons were given to the guests, with those 21 and older receiving wrist bands to be allowed to drink. Many minors from other schools were found with alcohol, and some guests brought alcohol into the social.\n\nThe 2010 Conference was held in Las Vegas, Nevada, and was hosted by the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. The theme was \"outLANDish\" and it sure held true to its brand. Venues included UNLV, Sunset Park, the World Market Center Las Vegas, the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area, the Clark County Wetlands Park, the Las Vegas Springs Preserve, the Hoover Dam, the Neonopolis, the Fremont Street Experience, and all the fabulousness of the Las Vegas Strip.\n\nAt the 2009 Conference, Purdue University was unanimously chosen to host the 2011 LABash Conference.\n\nLABASH 2013 SOUTHERN COMFORT\n\nMarch 21–23, 2013 University of Georgia. Athens, GA\n\nMiami, FL\n\nAthens, GA\n\nMadison, Wisconsin\n\nHeld in Columbus, Ohio. Keynote speakers included Shannon Nichol of GGN, Laura Solano of MVVA, and Thomas Woltz of Nelson Byrd Woltz.\n\nThe 48th Annual LABash carried the theme “Identify.” Keynote speakers included Ken Smith, Susannah Drake, and Gina Ford. The student directors strived to welcome speakers that would generate a diverse array of voices and perspectives. They also started some new practices, such as:\n\n\nFrom the website, \"Each landscape architect plays a role in the large scheme of how our world changes day to day and over time. Changing the world may sound like a big task, but it is only possible through you.\n\nThroughout the weekend, guests were asked to be conscious of the ideas, people, and experiences they encounter and reflect:\n\nHow will you make your mark?\n\nWhat inspires you?\n\nWhat has shaped you?\n\nWhat will you do?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "41483373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41483373", "title": "List of Falkland Islands by-elections", "text": "List of Falkland Islands by-elections\n\nThis is a list of by-elections to the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council of the Falkland Islands. The Legislative Council of the Falkland Islands was founded on 13 November 1845, originally as an entirely appointed body. The first elections to the council took place in 1949. The Legislative Assembly replaced the Legislative Council with the implementation of the new Constitution on 1 January 2009.\n\nThe Legislative Assembly consists of eight elected members, five from Stanley and three from Camp. Under section 32(2) of the constitution, if an elected member of the Legislative Assembly vacates their seat for any reason other than a dissolution of the Assembly, there is a by-election to fill the empty seat. The by-election must be held within 70 days of the vacancy occurring, unless the Assembly is due to be dissolved within 126 days.\n\nThe first election to the newly constituted Legislative Assembly took place on 5 November 2009 and the assembly was dissolved on 17 October 2013 in preparation for the 2013 general election.\n\nEmma Edwards, MLA for Stanley, resigned from the Legislative Assembly on 21 October 2011 following her decision to leave the Falklands. Her seat was filled by Dr Barry Elsby in a by-election on 15 December 2011.\n\nBill Luxton, MLA for Camp, resigned from the Legislative Assembly on 4 November 2011 due to his prologued absence from the Falklands, which was increasing the workload of the other MLAs. The seat was filled by Ian Hansen, who was the only candidate when nominations closed on 30 November 2011.\n\nGlenn Ross, MLA for Stanley, resigned from the Legislative Assembly on 26 April 2011 in order to concentrate on his work at the islands' power station. His seat was filled by former MLA, Mike Summers in a by-election on 23 June 2011.\n\nA by-election took place in the Stanley constituency on 3 January 2008 after the incumbent councillor, Richard Andrew Davies, became Chief Medical Officer. There was controversy over the circumstances that led to the by-election as Richard Davies had been advised by the Government that he could take on the office of Chief Medical Officer without forfeiting his seat in the Legislative Council. However, this was later deemed to be unconstitutionally, forcing Davies to give up his seat. Davies sort re-election at the by-election, but lost out to John Birmingham. This was the last election to the Legislative Council prior to it being reconstituted into the Legislative Assembly on 1 January 2009.\n\nA by-election took place in the Camp constituency on 6 November 2003 following the resignation of the incumbent councillor, Philip Miller. The seat was filled by Ian Hansen.\n\nA by-election took place in the Stanley constituency in October 1996 following the resignation of the incumbent councillor, John Cheek. The seat was filled by Mike Summers.\n\nA by-election took place in the Stanley constituency on 15 December 1994 following the resignation of the incumbent councillor, Charles Kennleyside. The seat was filled by John Birmingham.\n\nA by-election took place in the Stanley constituency on 29 January 1987 following the resignation of the incumbent councillor, Norma Edwards. The seat was filled by Terry Betts.\n\nA by-election was called for the Camp constituency in 1986 following the resignation of the incumbent councillor, Timothy John Durose Miller. Miller sort re-election himself, but lost to Eric Miller Goss.\n\nA by-election was called for the Stanley constituency in 1984 following the resignation of the incumbent councillor, Terence John Peck. The seat was filled by Harold Bennett.\n\nA by-election was called for the West Falkland constituency in 1980 following the resignation of the incumbent councillor, Derek Stanley Evans. The seat was filled by John Richard Rowlands.\n\nA by-election was called for the Stanley constituency in 1962 following the death of the incumbent councillor, Arthur Leslie Hardy, on 6 February 1962. The seat was filled by John Richard Rowlands.\n"}
{"id": "1811842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1811842", "title": "List of Nobel laureates by country", "text": "List of Nobel laureates by country\n\nThis is a list of Nobel Prize laureates by country. Listings for \"Economics\" refer to the related Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. The Nobel Prizes and the Prize in Economic Sciences have been awarded 567 times to 889 recipients, of which 25 awards (all Peace Prizes) were to organizations. Due to some recipients receiving multiple awards, the total number of recipients is 860 individuals and 22 organizations.\n\nThe present list ranks laureates under the country/countries that are stated by the Nobel Prize committee on its website. The list does not distinguish between laureates who received a full prize and the majority who shared a prize. Some laureates are listed under more than one country, because the official website mentions multiple countries in relation to the laureate. If a country is merely mentioned as the place of birth, an asterisk (*) is used in the respective listing to indicate this. In this case, the birth country is mentioned in \"italics\" at the other listings of this laureate. \n\nOrganizations are listed here if the Nobel Prize committee relates them to a single country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37903787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37903787", "title": "List of Nortel people", "text": "List of Nortel people\n\nThis is a list of people associated with Nortel, a Canadian telecommunications manufacturer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2577557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2577557", "title": "List of Polish flags", "text": "List of Polish flags\n\nA variety of Polish flags are defined in current Polish national law, either through an act of parliament or a ministerial ordinance. Apart from the national flag, these are mostly military flags, used by one or all branches of the Polish Armed Forces, especially the Polish Navy. Other flags are flown by vessels of non-military uniformed services.\n\nMost Polish flags feature white and red, the national colors of Poland. The national colors, officially adopted in 1831, are of heraldic origin and derive from the tinctures of the coats of arms of Poland and Lithuania. Additionally, some flags incorporate the white eagle of the Polish coat of arms, while other flags used by the Armed Forces incorporate military eagles, which are variants.\n\nBoth variants of the national flag of Poland were officially adopted in 1919, shortly after Poland re-emerged as an independent state in the aftermath of World War I in 1918. Many Polish flags were adopted within the following three years.\nThe designs of most of these flags have been modified only to adjust to the changes in the official rendering of the national coat of arms. Major modifications included a change in the stylization of the eagle from Neoclassicist to Baroque in 1927 and the removal of the crown from the eagle's head during the Communist rule from 1944 to 1990. Legal specification for the shades of the national colors has also changed with time. The shade of red was first legally specified as vermilion by a presidential decree of 13 December 1928.\nThis verbal prescription was replaced with coordinates in the CIE 1976 color space by the Coat of Arms Act of 31 January 1980.\n\nThe basic variant of the national flag is a plain white-and-red horizontal bicolor. A variant defaced with the coat of arms is restricted to official use abroad and at sea. Legal restrictions notwithstanding, the two variants are often treated as interchangeable in practice.\n\nOriginally used only by the Navy, the use of these rank flags was extended in 2005 to all branches of the Armed Forces by an amendment to the relevant ministerial ordinance. They are flown to mark the presence and pay respect to the highest civilian and military authorities: the President of the Republic of Poland who is \"ex officio\" commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces; the Minister of National Defence who acts on the commander-in-chief's behalf in peacetime; Marshal of Poland, the highest rank in the Polish army (no living holders since 1989); and the Chief of the General Staff.\n\nThe war ensign and the naval jack symbolize traditions of the Polish Navy dating back to Polish privateer fleet of the 15th–17th centuries.\nThey are also symbols of a navy ship crew's courage, honor, unbreakable fighting spirit and readiness to defend Poland and its maritime rights. Naval Service Regulations define when, where and how the flags should be raised and lowered on board a navy ship.\n\nSpecial state service flags are used by state-employed civil special-purpose ships while on duty. These flags all follow the same basic design; a white flag with a horizontal stripe whose width is 1/5 of the flag's width. In the middle, each flag is emblazoned with the national coat of arms superimposed on a golden or yellow anchor whose height is 3/5 of the flag's width. The middle stripe is broken in the middle and does not touch the anchor or the arms. The type of special service performed by the ship is indicated by the color of the middle stripe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19594299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19594299", "title": "List of Portuguese supercentenarians", "text": "List of Portuguese supercentenarians\n\nThis is an incomplete list of Portuguese supercentenarians (people from Portugal who have attained the age of at least 110 years). The Gerontology Research Group (GRG), an organization that tracks supercentenarians and validates age claims, has verified the ages of 8 supercentenarians from Portugal. The oldest person ever from Portugal was Maria de Jesus, who died in 2009 aged 115 years 114 days.\n\nBelow is a list of supercentenarians born in Portugal who are living or have died in another country.\nMaria do Couto Maia-Lopes (24 October 1890 – 25 July 2005) is the 2nd longest-lived person to be documented in Portugal. She was born and lived in Grijó, in Vila Nova de Gaia, which is near the city of Porto.\n\nShe remembered the day when the last king of Portugal, D. Manuel II, visited the nearby town of Espinho, on 23 November 1908.\n\nShe had a total of eight daughters, seven grandchildren, ten great-grandchildren and five great-great-grandchildren. Her husband died in 1942. One of her great-granddaughters married a grandson of Portugal's oldest ever man, Augusto Moreira de Oliveira (1896 – 2009). Maia-Lopes died 25 July 2005, aged 114 years 274 days.\n\nAlice Sanders (São Jorge Island, 12 May 1897 – Merced, California, 7 November 2007) was one of the last survivors of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. Alice Catarina Matos was born in the Azores archipelago. Her family emigrated to Half Moon Bay (California) in 1903, when Alice was 6 years old. The April 18, 1906 San Francisco earthquake, a few weeks prior to Alice's ninth birthday, was a traumatic experience to her family, since they believed the end of the world had come. In 1912, the Matos family moved to Gustine, where Alice met Clarence Leonard Sanders, who became her husband on Christmas Day in 1913.\n"}
{"id": "500017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=500017", "title": "List of World War II flying aces by country", "text": "List of World War II flying aces by country\n\nThis is a list of fighter aces in World War II, ordered by national origin. For a shorter list with rank and kill count see List of top World War II aces.\n\nBy nationality:\n\nThere were 103 air aces from Australia during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Australia.\n\nThere were 51 air aces from Austria during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Austria.\n\nThere were 14 air aces from Belgium during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Belgium.\n\nThere were 2 air aces from Bulgaria during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Bulgaria.\n\nThere were 152 air aces from Canada during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Canada.\n\nThere were more than 25 fighter aces from the China during the Second World War, although not all flew for the Allies. For more information, see List of World War II aces from China.\n\nFrom 1941–45, the portion of Yugoslavia occupied by the Axis powers existed as the Independent State of Croatia, a puppet state of Nazi Germany. There were 25 fighter aces from the Independent State of Croatia during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Croatia.\n\nThere were more than 30 aces from Czechoslovakia during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Czechoslovakia\n\n\nThere were 3 fighter aces from Denmark during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Denmark.\n\nThere were 96 fighter aces from Finland during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Finland\n\nThere were more than 180 aces from France during the Second World War. See List of World War II aces from France and List of Vichy France flying aces.\n\nThere were over 2,500 aces from Germany during the Second World War. For a detailed list of 890 (updated as of October 2017) of these aces, see List of World War II aces from Germany\n\nThere were 7 air aces from Greece during the Second World War.\n\nThere were 39 air aces from Hungary during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Hungary.\n\nThere were more than 13 aces from Ireland during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Ireland.\n\nThere were more than 166 aces from Italy during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Italy\n\nThere were approximately 335 aces from Japan during the Second World War. For a complete list, see List of World War II aces from Japan\n\nThere were more than 80 aces from New Zealand during the Second World War. For a complete list, see List of World War II aces from New Zealand.\n\nThere were 20 aces from Norway during the Second World War. For a complete list, see List of World War II aces from Norway.\n\nThere were only two known aces of the Philippines during the Second World War. They are Jesús A. Villamor and César Basa.\n\nThere were 91 air aces from Poland during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Poland.\n\nThere were 11 air aces from Rhodesia during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Rhodesia.\n\nThere were 51 aces from Romania during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II flying aces from Romania.\n\nThere were 19 air aces from Slovakia during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Slovakia.\n\nSee also List of World War II aces from Czechoslovakia\n\nThere were 59 aces from South Africa during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from South Africa\n\nSoviet Union produced the highest scoring allied aces during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from the Soviet Union\n\nThere were 20 air aces from Spain during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Spain.\n\n\nThere were several hundred aces from the United Kingdom during the Second World War.\n\nThere were 1297 aces from the United States during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from the United States\n\n"}
{"id": "18609258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18609258", "title": "List of diplomatic missions of Djibouti", "text": "List of diplomatic missions of Djibouti\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions of Djibouti, excluding honorary consulates. Foreign relations of Djibouti are handled primarily by the President as the head of state, the Prime Minister as the head of government, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Its overseas presence is comparatively small. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17964594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17964594", "title": "List of ecoregions in Oregon", "text": "List of ecoregions in Oregon\n\nThis list of ecoregions in Oregon provides an overview of ecoregions in the U.S. state of Oregon designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Commission for Environmental Cooperation (CEC). The Commission's 1997 report, Ecological Regions of North America, provides a spatial framework that may be used by government agencies, non-governmental organizations, and academic researchers as a basis for risk analysis, resource management, and environmental study of the continent's ecosystems. Ecoregions may be identified by similarities in geology, physiography, vegetation, climate, soils, land use, wildlife distributions, and hydrology.\n\nThe classification system has four levels. Levels I, III, and IV are shown on this list. Level I divides North America into 15 ecoregions; of these, 3 are present in Oregon. Level III subdivides the continent into 182 ecoregions; of these, 9 lay partly within Oregon's borders. Level IV is a further subdivision of Level III ecoregions. There are 65 Level IV ecoregions in Oregon, many of which continue into adjacent areas in the neighboring states of Washington, Idaho, Nevada, and California. The task of defining and mapping these ecoregions was carried out by the Oregon Ecoregion Project, a collaborative effort involving the EPA, the United States Geological Survey (USGS), the United States Forest Service (USFS), and other state and federal agencies. The new classification system they developed may differ from previous frameworks developed separately by the agencies.\n\nOregon is ecologically diverse. The west side of the state has a marine-influenced climate and receives plentiful precipitation three seasons of the year. In contrast, Eastern Oregon lies in the rain shadow of the Cascades and is much drier. The climatic gradient is evident in the state's landscapes: forested mountains, glaciated peaks, shrub- and grass-covered plains, agricultural valleys, beaches, desert playas, and wetlands.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53716406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53716406", "title": "List of universities in Wallis and Futuna", "text": "List of universities in Wallis and Futuna\n\nThis is a list of universities in Wallis and Futuna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52229898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52229898", "title": "List of years in Venezuela", "text": "List of years in Venezuela\n\nThis is a list of years in Venezuela. See also the timeline of Venezuelan history. For only articles about years in Venezuela that have been written, see . \n\n"}
{"id": "2886373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2886373", "title": "Mandara Kingdom", "text": "Mandara Kingdom\n\nThe Mandara Kingdom (sometimes called Wandala) was an African kingdom in the Mandara Mountains of what is today Cameroon. The Mandara people are descended from the kingdom's inhabitants.\n\nTradition states that Mandara was founded shortly before 1500 by a female ruler named Soukda and a non-Mandarawa hunter named Gaya. The kingdom was first referred to by Fra Mauro (in 1459) and Leo Africanus (in 1526); the provenance of its name remains uncertain.\n\nFor the kingdom's first century of history, its rulers warred with neighbouring groups in an effort to expand their territories. After conquering the Dulo (or Duolo) and establishing the capital at Dulo c. 1580, the dynasty of Sankre, a war leader, began. When the Dulo made an attempt to seize the throne, the Bornu kingdom supported the claim of Aldawa Nanda, a member of Sankre's house. Emperor Idris Alaoma of Borno personally installed Nanda as king in 1614. Bornu thus attained an influential position over Mandara.\n\nMai Bukar Aji, the 25th king, made Mandara a sultanate c. 1715, which it would remain for nearly two hundred years. Muslim visitors converted Bukar to Islam, and the Islamicisation of the kingdom would continue for most of the next century. The kingdom experienced a golden age of sorts under Bukar and his successor, Bukar Guiana (1773-1828). Around 1781, the Mandara defeated the kingdom of Borno in a major battle, further expanding their control in the region. At the peak of her power at the turn of the century, Mandara received tribute from some 15 chiefdoms. However, the kingdom faced a setback in 1809, when Modibo Adama, a Fulani disciple of Usman dan Fodio, led a jihad against Mandara. Adama briefly seized Dulo, though the Mandara counterattack soon drove him from the kingdom's borders. Adama's defeat prompted Borno to ally with Mandara once again against the Fulani invaders.\n\nUpon the death of ruler Bukai Dgjiama, Mandara's non-Muslim tributaries rose up, and the Fulani attacked once more. By 1850, Borno could not pass up the opportunity to attack the weakened kingdom. This renewed conflict began to sap the kingdom's strength, paving the way for the invasion of Muhammad Ahmad's forces in the 1880s. In 1895 or 1896, Muhammad Ahmad's army destroyed Dulo, marking a further decline in Mandara power. However, the kingdom continued to exist, repelling continual Fulani raids until it finally fell to them in 1893.\n\nEnglish explorer Dixon Denham accompanied a slave-raiding expedition from Borno into the Mandara kingdom in February 1823; though he barely escaped with his life following the raiders' defeat, he brought back one of the first European accounts of the kingdom. In 1902, the kingdom was conquered by Germany, passing then to France in 1918. In 1960, the Mandara kingdom became a part of newly independent Cameroon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10418099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10418099", "title": "Meenmutty Falls, Thiruvananthapuram", "text": "Meenmutty Falls, Thiruvananthapuram\n\nMeenmutty Falls is a waterfall located from Trivandrum city in Thiruvananthapuram District in the Indian state of Kerala, India. The falls are located near the Neyyar Reservoir area. No transportation is available so visitors have to trek 2km through the dense forests to reach the falls. It is very beautiful fall with beautiful surroundings. The Kombaikani Falls lie upstream of the Meenmutti Falls on the trek path to Agastyakoodam. \n\n"}
{"id": "1516323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516323", "title": "Military Grid Reference System", "text": "Military Grid Reference System\n\nThe Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) is the geocoordinate standard used by NATO militaries for locating points on the earth. The MGRS is derived from the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) grid system and the universal polar stereographic (UPS) grid system, but uses a different labeling convention. The MGRS is used for the entire earth.\n\nAn example of an \"MGRS coordinate\", or \"grid reference\", would be [21_18_34.0_N_157_55_0.7_W_&language=en 4QFJ12345678], which consists of three parts: \n\nAn MGRS grid reference is a point reference system. When the term 'grid square' is used, it can refer to a square with a side length of , 1 km, , 10 m or 1 m, depending on the precision of the coordinates provided. (In some cases, squares adjacent to a Grid Zone Junction (GZJ) are clipped, so polygon is a better descriptor of these areas.) The number of digits in the numerical location must be even: 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 or 10, depending on the desired precision. When changing precision levels, it is important to truncate rather than round the easting and northing values to ensure the more precise polygon will remain within the boundaries of the less precise polygon. Related to this is the primacy of the southwest corner of the polygon being the labeling point for an entire polygon. In instances where the polygon is not a square and has been clipped by a grid zone junction, the polygon keeps the label of the southwest corner as if it had not been clipped.\n\n\nThe first part of an MGRS coordinate is the \"grid-zone designation\". The 6° wide UTM zones, numbered 1–60, are intersected by latitude bands that are normally 8° high, lettered C–X (omitting I and O). The northmost latitude band, X, is 12° high. The intersection of a UTM zone and a latitude band is (normally) a 6° × 8° polygon called a \"grid zone\", whose \"designation\" in MGRS is formed by the zone number (one or two digits – the number for zones 1 to 9 is just a single digit, according to the example in DMA TM 8358.1, Section 3-2, Figure 7), followed by the latitude band letter (uppercase). This same notation is used in both UTM and MGRS, i.e. the UTM grid reference system; the article on Universal Transverse Mercator shows many maps of these grid zones, including the irregularities for Svalbard and southwest Norway.\n\nAs Figure 1 illustrates, Honolulu is in grid zone 4Q.\n\nThe second part of an MGRS coordinate is the \"100,000-meter square identification\". Each UTM zone is divided into 100,000 meter squares, so that their corners have UTM-coordinates that are multiples of 100,000 meters. The \"identification\" consists of a column letter (A–Z, omitting I and O) followed by a row letter (A–V, omitting I and O).\n\nNear the equator, the columns of UTM zone 1 have the letters A–H, the columns of UTM zone 2 have the letters J–R (omitting O), and the columns of UTM zone 3 have the letters S–Z. At zone 4, the column letters start over from A, and so on around the world. \n\nFor the row letters, there are actually two alternative lettering schemes within MGRS: \n\nIf an MGRS coordinate is complete (with both a grid zone designation and a 100,000 meter square identification), and is valid in one lettering scheme, then it is usually invalid in the other scheme, which will have no such 100,000 meter square in the grid zone. (Latitude band X is the exception to this rule.) Therefore, a position reported in a modern datum usually can not be misunderstood as using an old datum, and vice versa – provided the datums use different MGRS lettering schemes.\n\nIn the map (figure 1), which uses the AA scheme, we see that Honolulu is in grid zone 4Q, and square FJ. To give the position of Honolulu with 100 km resolution, we write 4QFJ.\n\nThe third part of an MGRS coordinate is the \"numerical location\" within a 100,000 meter square, given as \"n\" + \"n\" digits, where \"n\" is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. If 5 + 5 digits is used, the first 5 digits give the easting in meters, measured from the left edge of the square, and the last 5 digits give the northing in meters, measured from the bottom edge of the square. The resolution in this case is 1 meter, so the MGRS coordinate would represent a 1-meter square, where the easting and northing are measured to its southwest corner. If a resolution of 10 meters is enough, the final digit of the easting and northing can be dropped, so that only 4 + 4 digits are used, representing a 10-meter square. If a 100-meter resolution is enough, 3 + 3 digits suffice; if a 1 km resolution is enough, 2 + 2 digits suffice; if 10 km resolution is enough, 1 + 1 digits suffice.\n10 meter resolution (4 + 4 digits) is sufficient for many purposes, and is the NATO standard for specifying coordinates.\n\nIf we zoom in on Hawaii (figure 2), we see that the square that contains Honolulu, if we use 10 km resolution, would be written 4QFJ15.\n\nIf the grid zone or 100,000-meter square are clear from context, they can be dropped, and only the numerical location is specified. For example:\n\nOne always reads map coordinates from west to east first (easting), then from south to north (northing). Common mnemonics include \"in the house, up the stairs\", \"left-to-right, bottom-to-top\" and \"Read Right Up\".\n\nAs mentioned above, when converting UTM coordinates to an MGRS grid reference, or when abbreviating an MGRS grid reference to lower precision, one should \"truncate\" the coordinates, not round. This has been controversial in the past, since the oldest specification, TM8358.1, used rounding, as did GEOTRANS before version 3.0.\nHowever, truncation is used in GEOTRANS since version 3.0, and in NGA Military Map Reading 201 (page 5) and in the US Army Field Manual 3-25.26. The civilian version of MGRS, USNG, also uses truncation.\n\nThe boundaries of the latitude bands are parallel circles (dashed black lines in figure 1), which do not coincide with the boundaries of the 100,000-meter squares (blue lines in figure 1). For example, at the boundary between grid zones 1P and 1Q, we find a 100,000-meter square BT, of which about two thirds is south of latitude 16° and therefore in grid zone 1P, while one third is north of 16° and therefore in 1Q. So, an MGRS grid reference for a position in BT should begin with 1PBT in the south part of BT, and with 1QBT in the north part of BT. At least, this is possible if the precision of the grid reference is enough to place the denoted area completely inside either 1P or 1Q. \n\nBut an MGRS grid reference can denote an area that crosses a latitude band boundary. For example, when describing the entire square BT, should it be called 1PBT or 1QBT? Or when describing the 1000-meter square BT8569, should it be called 1PBT8569 or 1QBT8569? In these cases, software that interprets an MGRS grid reference should accept both of the possible latitude band letters. A practical motivation was given in the release notes for GEOTRANS, Release 2.0.2, 1999:\n\nThe MGRS module was changed to make the final latitude check on MGRS to UTM conversions sensitive to the precision of the input MGRS coordinate string. The lower the input precision, the more \"slop\" is allowed in the final check on the latitude zone letter. This is to handle an issue raised by some F-16 pilots, who truncate MGRS strings that they receive from the Army. This truncation can put them on the wrong side of a latitude zone boundary, causing the truncated MGRS string to be considered invalid. The correction causes truncated strings to be considered valid if any part of the square which they denote lies within the latitude zone specified by the third letter of the string.\n\nIn the polar regions, a different convention is used. South of 80°S, UPS South (Universal Polar Stereographic) is used instead of a UTM projection. The west half-circle forms a grid zone with designation A; the east half-circle forms one with designation B; see figure 3. North of 84°N, UPS North is used, and the west half-circle is Y, the east one is Z; see figure 4. Since the letters A, B, Y, and Z are not used for any latitude bands of UTM, their presence in an MGRS coordinate, with the omission of a zone number, indicates that the coordinates are in the UPS system. \n\nThe lettering scheme for 100,000 m squares is slightly different in the polar regions. The column letters use a more restricted alphabet, going from A to Z but omitting D, E, I, M, N, O, V, W; the columns are arranged so that the rightmost column in grid zone A and Y has column letter Z, and the next column in grid zone B or Z starts over with column letter A. The row letters go from A to Z, omitting I and O. The restricted column alphabet for UPS ensures that no UPS square will be adjacent to a UTM square with the same identification.\n\nIn the polar regions, there is only one version of the lettering scheme.\n\nThere are other geographic naming systems of this alphanumeric kind:\n\n"}
{"id": "28879029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28879029", "title": "Naejangsan National Park", "text": "Naejangsan National Park\n\nNaejangsan National Park () is located in the provinces of Jeollabuk-do and Jeollanam-do, South Korea. It was designated as the 8th national park in 1971. It is named after the mountain Naejangsan. The park is home to a total of 919 plant species and 1,880 animal species. 12 of the animals are endangered.\n\n"}
{"id": "22807195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22807195", "title": "Ornamental bulbous plant", "text": "Ornamental bulbous plant\n\nOrnamental bulbous plants, often called ornamental bulbs or just bulbs in gardening and horticulture, are herbaceous perennials grown for ornamental purposes, which have underground or near ground storage organs. Botanists distinguish between true bulbs, corms, rhizomes, tubers and tuberous roots, any of which may be termed \"bulbs\" in horticulture. Bulb species usually lose their upper parts during adverse conditions such as summer drought and heat or winter cold. The bulb's storage organs contain moisture and nutrients that are used to survive these adverse conditions in a dormant state. When conditions become favourable the reserves sustain a new growth cycle. In addition, bulbs permit vegetative or asexual multiplication in these species. Ornamental bulbs are used in parks and gardens and as cut flowers.\n\nThe word \"bulb\" has a somewhat different meaning to botanists than it does to gardeners and horticulturalists. In the context of gardening, a \"bulb\" is a plant's underground or ground-level storage organ that can be dried, stored and sold in this state, and then planted to grow again. Many bulbs in this sense are produced by \"geophytes\", i.e. plants whose growing point is below ground level. However, not all bulbs in the gardening sense are produced by geophytes. For example, rhizomatous irises are included in books on ornamental bulbs, but their growing points are above ground. Many bulbs are produced by lilioid monocots, but not all lilioid monocots have bulbs. Brian Mathew says that \"we just have to accept that there is no accurate term which we can use for this group of plants and we are left with 'bulbs' as the snappiest and most convenient.\"\n\nBotanically, gardeners' \"bulbs\" may be true bulbs, corms, rhizomes or tubers, or combinations of these.\n\nA true bulb (i.e. a bulb in the botanical sense) is an underground vertical shoot that has modified leaves (or thickened leaf bases) that are used as food storage organs by the plant. The bottom of the bulb is made up of a short section of stem forming the basal plate. Storage leaves are produced from the top of the basal plate, roots from the underside. Other examples of species with true bulbs, apart from those already mentioned, are \"Muscari, Tulipa and Narcissus\".\n\nA corm is a short, vertical, swollen underground plant stem consisting of one or more internodes with at least one growing point, with protective leaves modified into skins or tunics. The thin tunic leaves are dry papery, dead sheaths, formed from the leaves produced the year before. They act as a covering that protects the corm from insects and water loss. Internally a corm is mostly made of starch-containing parenchyma cells above a more-or-less circular basal node that grows roots. Corms are sometimes confused with true bulbs; they are often similar in appearance to bulbs externally, but corms are internally structured with solid tissues, which distinguishes them from bulbs, which are mostly made up of layered fleshy scales.\n\nA rhizome is a horizontal stem that often grows underground, usually sending out roots and shoots from its nodes. Some plants have rhizomes that grow above ground or that lie at the soil surface, including some \"Iris\" species. Usually, rhizomes have short internodes; they send out roots from the bottom of the nodes and new upward-growing shoots from the top of the nodes. Examples of plants that grow in this way include irises, lily of the valley (\"Convallaria majalis\") and cannas.\n\nA stem tuber may form from thickened rhizomes or stolons. The tops or sides of the tuber produce shoots that grow into typical stems and leaves, and the undersides produce roots. Such tubers tend to form at the sides of the parent plant and are most often located near the soil surface. A below ground stem tuber is normally a short-lived storage and regenerative organ developing from a shoot that branches off a mature plant. The new tubers are attached to a parent tuber or form at the end of an underground rhizome. In the autumn the plant dies except for the new offspring stem tubers, which in spring regrow one or more new shoots producing stems and leaves. Some plants also form smaller tubers and/or tubercules, which act like seeds, producing small plants that resemble (in morphology and size) seedlings. Some stem tubers, such as those of tuberous begonias, are long lived, but many tuberous plants have tubers that survive only until the plants are in full leaf, at which point the tuber is reduced to a shrivelled up husk.\n\nRoots can also form tuberous structures (tuberous roots) that are in some ways similar to stem tubers, but of a different anatomical origin. Ornamental plants with tuberous roots include the Persian buttercup, \"Ranunculus asiaticus\", and dahlias. When sold in the dry form, dahlia \"bulbs\" consist of a cluster of tuberous roots attached to one or more stems. Only the stems produce buds, from around the \"collar\" close to where the roots are attached. A tuber without any attached stem will not grow.\n\nTubers may form from the hypocotyl of the young seedling, as in \"Cyclamen\". Since the hypocotyl is a region between the stem and the roots, such tubers are variable in their anatomy and growth habits. Thus the roots of \"Cyclamen graecum\" grow from the base of the tuber, suggesting it is a stem tuber, whereas those of \"Cyclamen hederifolium\" mostly grow from the upper surface of the tuber, suggesting it is a root tuber.\n\nAnnual species complete their life cycle during favourable seasons and pass unfavourable ones as seeds. Bulbous plants, on the other hand, have developed storage organs as a reserve to allow them to survive unfavourable conditions in a resting condition in order to begin growth again when environmental conditions become more favourable. The dormant or resting period may be in summer or winter, or may depend on rainfall, as in the tropics. The different strategies enable bulbous plants to survive adverse conditions such as extremely hot and dry summers, very cold winters, or periods of drought.\n\nMost bulbous plants are adapted to hot, dry summers and cooler, wetter winters. They are dormant through the summer and grow during the autumn, winter and spring. Within this group, there are variations, largely determined by how cold the winter is. Many tulips (\"Tulipa\" species) of Asian origins, for example, have adapted to an extreme continental climate, with dry, very hot summers, very cold winters and springs with short showers. They grow mainly during the spring. In cultivation such tulips may be planted in late autumn (e.g. November in the northern hemisphere). In regions where winters are milder, some species, such as \"Crocus cartwrightianus\", flower in the autumn, either at the same time as the leaves appear or before. Others, such as \"Arum creticum\", produce leaves in the autumn which last through the winter until the plant flowers in the spring.\n\nSummer drought occurs particularly, but not exclusively, in those regions of the world with a Mediterranean climate, which are rich in bulbous plants. Such regions include the Mediterranean itself through to Central Asia, the south west of South Africa, the south west of Australia, parts of the western United States, such as California, and parts of western South America, particularly Chile.\nMany species that grow in the understory of deciduous woods or forests are also summer dormant. They use their stored reserves in order to grow rapidly and complete their annual growth-cycle at the beginning of spring before the developing tree canopy blocks out the sun's light. North America is home to many such woodland bulbs, including \"Erythronium\", \"Trillium\" and some lilies, such as \"Lilium pardalinum\". The common bluebell, \"Hyacinthoides non-scripta\", is native to western parts of Europe, but particularly the British Isles, where it carpets the floor of some woods. The woodlands of Asia, including China and Japan, are home to bulbous plants such as arisaemas and the giant cardiocrinums.\n\nSome bulbous plants grow in communities that are adapted to recurrent fires during the dry season (for example, many Iridaceae species). During these periods the plants are dormant and in this way can survive the heat of the fire. The fires clean the surface vegetation, eliminating competition and also supplying nutrients to the ground from the ashes of the burnt plants. When the first rains fall, the bulbs, corms and rhizomes rapidly start to shoot, starting a new period of growth and development sustained by the reserves accumulated in their storage tissues during the previous season. Various South African species from the genus \"Cyrtanthus\", for example, are well known for their ability to flower rapidly after natural grassland wildfires, and for this reason several of these species are known as \"fire lilies\". In fact, some species, such as \"Cyrtanthus contractus\", only flower after a wildfire.\n\nA second category of bulbous plants are those adapted to dry, generally cool winters and warmer, wetter summers. They are dormant through the winter and grow in spring, summer and autumn. Regions of South Africa and Lesotho with this type of climate include the East Cape, and the Drakensberg mountains in the north east of Western Cape province, which are particularly rich in bulbous species, including plants such as gladioli, \"Eucomis\" and \"Rhodohypoxis\". Other areas with similar winter drought include parts of Central America, such as Mexico where the tiger flower (\"Tigridia pavonia\") is found.\n\nIn some areas of the tropics, rainfall is interspersed with periods of dryness; more than one wet/dry cycle may occur in a year. Bulbous plants in these areas are adapted to warm, wet periods followed by warm, dry periods. They typically flower near the beginning of the rainy season. Such a climate occurs in Kenya, which has wet conditions in October to December and then again in February to May. Glory-lilies (\"Gloriosa\") and \"Crinum\" species are examples of bulbous plants adapted to these conditions. Tropical Asia has similarly adapted bulbous plants, such as species of \"Hedychium\" (gingers).\n\nPlants with fleshy underground parts were probably first used as food. Onions (\"Allium cepa\") were cultivated in Ancient Egypt. In South America, the potato (\"Solanum tuberosum\"), oca (\"Oxalis tuberosa\") and the sweet potato (\"Ipomoea batatas\") were cultivated for thousands of years. Other parts of bulbous plants were also used in cooking. The Minoans of Crete grew and traded saffron (either the wild species \"Crocus cartwrightianus\" or the cultivated \"Crocus sativus\"). The plant is depicted in paintings from around 1550 BC. Saffron consists of the dried stigmas of the flowers, and is used as a spice and also as a dye. Some bulbous plants were used in medicine in classical times; one example is the sea squill (\"Drimia maritima\") which grows from a true bulb.\nWall paintings dated to around 1700–1600 BC from Minoan Akrotiri provide some of the earliest evidence for the apparently ornamental use of bulbous plants. Some of the plants in the frescos are clearly lilies, which have usually been identified as \"Lilium candidum\". However, this species has white flowers, and those in the frescos are red, which suggests they may be \"Lilium chalcedonicum\". \"L. candidum\", the Madonna lily, was later used as a symbol in Christianity, where the Virgin Mary was represented with lilies in her hands. The symbol of the Fleur de Lys was originally based on the flower of a species of Iris \"(Iris pseudacorus\") that appeared in Egyptian and Indian religious paintings long before it was adopted as the emblem of the kings of France in the 5th Century.\n\nMany ornamental bulbs were introduced into Europe via Turkey and the Ottoman Empire. Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent (who reigned 1520–1566) was noted for his love of gardens, where tulips and other bulbs were grown. Ogier Ghiselin de Busbecq, the ambassador to the sultan from Emperor Ferdinand I in Vienna, observed ornamental bulbous plants such as narcissi, hyacinths and \"those which the Turks call tulipam\". The botanist Carolus Clusius, who was based in Vienna from 1573 to around 1580, devoted one volume of his 1576 botanical work \"Rariorum Plantarum Historia\" to bulbs, some of which he knew from introductions via Turkey, such as tulips, \"Iris susiana\", \"Galanthus elwesii\" and \"Fritillaria persica\". Clusius had a major impact on bulb growing in Europe. Through his later position as the Director of the Leiden Botanic Garden, he established the Netherlands as the centre of commercial ornamental bulb growing.\n\nIt is therefore apparent that bulbous plants have served as food and symbols of religion and royal power for thousands of years. They have also been admired and used for the beauty of their flowers since time immemorial and by many civilizations. The list of the countries that have used bulbous plants as ornaments since the Christian era is long and includes Greece, Egypt, China, Korea and India among others. The list of genera cultivated in these countries as ornamental plants is even longer: \"Lycoris,\" \"Lilium, Crocus, Cyclamen, Narcissus, Scilla, Gladiolus, Muscari, Ranunculus, Allium, Iris and Hyacinthus\".\n\nSome varieties of bulbous plants thrive under adverse conditions such as poor soil or shade, and are therefore well suited to use in a garden. Varieties can be chosen that bloom at various times of year. They can be intermingled with other plants, used in pots, or even placed in the lawn or underneath fruit trees.\n\nRegarding their size, it is possible to find species that only grow a few centimetres such as \"Crocus minimus\" up to examples of 3.6m such as \"Cardiocrinum giganteum\".\n\nWhile some bulbs are poisonous or at least inedible to humans, many bulbs – especially those of the onion family (leeks, garlic, chives, shallots) – are grown both privately and commercially as food crops. The onion especially provides the basis for a huge variety of dishes.\n\nBulb species are traditionally planted in flowerbeds (parterres) and herbaceous borders in parks and gardens. The selection of species to plant depends on various factors, such as the soil type, the position (sunny or shady location), the colour or effect that is required and the season of the year when the plants are required to flower.\n\nSome examples of bulbous plant genera and their flowering season are given below:\n\nSome species of bulbous plants grow naturally in shady or woodland areas, and thus are well suited to areas in a garden that have similar conditions. Some species for shade are \"Allium ursinum, Anemone blanda, Anemone nemorosa, Arum italicum, Convallaria majalis, Corydalis flexuosa, Cyclamen purpurascens, Disporum flavescens, Erythronium, Fritillaria pallidiflora, Galanthus, Hyacinthoides non-scripta, Iris douglasiana, Leucojum vernum, Lilium martagon, Ranunculus ficaria, Sanguinaria canadensis, Smilacina racemosa, Trillium\" and \"Uvularia grandiflora\".\n\nIn large parks it is possible to plant some species so that they multiply spontaneously and grow amongst the grass or under trees. This practice, the naturalization of a species, is widely used in northern Europe and requires that the species' ecological requirements be satisfied. The most obvious advantage of this cultivation method is that it minimizes the attention the plants require once they have been naturalized. The plants that are suitable for naturalization are those that are sufficiently small but able to compete with the surrounding grass, they must be robust and able to withstand year after year of inclement weather and they must be prolific in order to spread rapidly.\n\nSome of the bulbs that are suitable for naturalization in parks include: \"Allium,\" \"Anemone,\" \"Arum,\" \"Colchicum\", \"Crocus,\" \"Cyclamen,\" \" Endymion,\" \"Fritillaria, Galanthus, Ipheion, Leucojum, Lilium, Muscari, Narcissus, Ornithogalum, Scilla, Sternbergia\" and \"Tulipa.\"\n\nA rock garden is a garden that uses a combination of rocks and small plants. The plants are often chosen for their suitability to rocky terrain. Some of the bulb genera that are most suitable for rock gardens include: \"Allium\", \"Anemone\", \"Anthericum\", \"Bulbocodium\", \"Chionodoxa\", \"Cyclamen\", \"Eranthis\", \"Erythronium\", \"Galanthus\", \"Ipheion\", \"Muscari\", \"Ornithogalum\", \"Oxalis\", \"Romulea\", \"Rhodohypoxis\" and \"Scilla\".\n\nBulbs can reproduce sexually, through seeds, or even vegetatively. Reproduction through seeds is generally used to rapidly increase the number of individuals of a given species and to improve genetic diversity. Many of the bulb species are self-incompatible, so pollination can only occur between clones of different plants in order to obtain seeds. The majority of seeds from bulbous plants germinate well if they are sown as soon as they reach maturity. Some species need a cold period in order to germinate.\nThe biggest problem in reproducing through seeds is that the resulting plants have a greater variability in a wide range of characteristics, such as flower colour and height and flowering period. This means that asexual or vegetative reproduction is normally used commercially to propagate this type of plant. This means that the characteristics of a determined cultivar remain unaltered.\n\nBulbs can reproduce vegetatively in a number of ways depending of the type of storage organ the plant has.\n\nBulbs can be evergreen, such as \"Clivia,\" \"Agapanthus\" and some species and varieties of \"Iris\" and \"Hemerocallis\". However, the majority are deciduous, dying down to the storage organ for part of the year. This characteristic has been taken advantage of in the commercialization of these plants. At the beginning of the rest period the bulbs can be dug out of the ground and prepared for sale as if they remain dry they do not need any nutrition for weeks or months.\n\nBulbous plants are produced on an industrial scale for two main markets, cut flowers and dried bulbs. The bulbs are produced to satisfy the demand for bulbs for parks, gardens and as house plants, in addition to providing the bulbs necessary for the production of cut flowers. The international trade in cut flowers has a worldwide value of approximately 11,000 million Euros, which gives an idea of the economic importance of this activity.\n\nThe Netherlands has been the leader in commercial production since the start of the 16th Century, both for the dried bulb market and for cut flowers. In fact, with approximately 30,000 hectares dedicated to this activity the production of bulbs in the Netherlands represents 65% of global production. The Netherlands also produces 95% of the international market in bulbs dedicated to the production of cut flowers. The United States is the second largest producer followed by France, Japan, Italy, United Kingdom, Israel, Brazil and Spain.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16283538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16283538", "title": "Outline of Cameroon", "text": "Outline of Cameroon\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Cameroon:\n\nThe Republic of Cameroon is a unitary republic located in Middle Africa. The country is called \"Africa in miniature\" for its geological and cultural diversity. Natural features include beaches, deserts, mountains, rainforests, and savannas. Cameroon is home to over 200 different ethnic and linguistic groups.\n\n\nGeography of Cameroon\n\n\n\nList of ecoregions in Cameroon\n\nSubdivisions of Cameroon\n\nRegions of Cameroon\n\nDepartments of Cameroon – the Regions of Cameroon are divided into 58 divisions or departments (départements)\n\nCommunes of Cameroon – municipalities\n\nDemographics of Cameroon\n\nPolitics of Cameroon\n\nGovernment of Cameroon\n\n\n\nCourt system of Cameroon\n\nForeign relations of Cameroon\n\nThe Republic of Cameroon is a member of:\n\nLaw of Cameroon\n\nMilitary of Cameroon\n\nLocal government in Cameroon\n\nHistory of Cameroon\n\nCulture of Cameroon\n\nArt in Cameroon\n\nReligion in Cameroon\n\nSport in Cameroon\n\nEconomy of Cameroon\n\nEducation in Cameroon\n\nHealth in Cameroon\n\nCameroon\n\n"}
{"id": "20475814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20475814", "title": "Province Island", "text": "Province Island\n\nProvince Island () is an island mostly in the Canadian province of Québec, but partly in the U.S. state of Vermont. It is situated in Lake Memphremagog. The island's area is 0.31 km². Although 0.028 km² (9%) at its southern point is part of the United States (Town of Derby, Orleans County in the state of Vermont), the greater part belongs to the city of Magog, in Memphrémagog Regional County Municipality, Quebec. At the end of the 18th century a pioneer named Martin Adams and his wife built a house on the island, where they grew flax and vegetables. The island used to be known as \"Zabriskie\" and \"Howard Island\". It is under private ownership; a pheasant hunt is organized annually. The Canada–United States border is marked by a five-meter strip cut through the forest.\n"}
{"id": "26991720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26991720", "title": "Ripa Gothica", "text": "Ripa Gothica\n\nRipa Gothia is a region of the Byzantine Empire mentioned by Flavius Dalmatius.\n"}
{"id": "16413614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16413614", "title": "Sibutu Passage", "text": "Sibutu Passage\n\nSibutu Passage is a deep channel some 18 miles (29 km) wide that separates Borneo from the Sulu Archipelago. It has a deep sill allowing entry of deep water into the Sulu basin while connecting the Sulu Sea with the Sulawesi Sea that feeds from the Pacific Ocean by the Mindanao Current.\n\nAlthough H. Otley Beyer argued in favor of a settlement of the Philippines across land bridges during the last ice age, modern bathymetric soundings have shown that the centers of the Sibutu Passage and the Mindoro Strait are both deep enough that they probably still existed at that time, although the Sulu and other Philippine Islands beyond were one connected island. If verified, therefore, the Callao Man would have needed to have crossed open sea to reach the islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4690211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4690211", "title": "Sigave", "text": "Sigave\n\nSigavé (also Singave or Sigave) is one of the three official chiefdoms of the French territory of Wallis and Futuna (the other two being Uvea and Alo) in Oceania in the South Pacific Ocean.\n\nSigave encompasses the western third (30 out of 83 km²) of Futuna Island. The total area of the kingdom is 30 km², with a population of 1880, in six villages, as of the census of July 22, 2003. The capital and largest village is Leava (pop. 480).\n\nThe chiefdom counts the homonym and coextensive district and 6 municipalities:\n\nThe junior high school in the area is Collège Fiua de Sigave.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25497278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25497278", "title": "Swedish Society for Anthropology and Geography", "text": "Swedish Society for Anthropology and Geography\n\nThe Swedish Society for Anthropology and Geography () is a scientific learned society founded in Sweden in 1877. It was established after a rearrangement of related sections of the Anthropological Society, itself formed in 1873 by Hjalmar Stolpe, Hans Hildebrand, Oscar Montelius, and Gustaf Retzius.\n\nThe society functions as a link between science and the public, especially in the subjects of anthropology and geography. It awards research fellowships, organizes excursions and lectures, hands out awards such as the Vega Medal and Retzius Medal. In 1880, it began publishing the Swedish yearbook \"Ymer\" and it has published the international journal \"Geografiska Annaler\" since 1919. The journal is divided between physical geography and human geography. In 2018, it established \"kritisk etnografi\".\n\nThe society created the \"Vega\" Medal in 1881 on the occasion of Adolf Erik Nordenskiöld's return to Stockholm, after he had discovered the North East Passage. Since then, the Vega Medal has been awarded to a physical geographer roughly every three years. In the intervening years, the society awarded the Anders Retzius Medal to a human geographer or an anthropologist. In 2015, however, it was decided that awarding a medal named after Retzius wasn't appropriate anymore, considering that his racial studies (that included the active collection of skulls from indigenous peoples) are met with disapproval by modern anthropologists. Instead, the SSAG medal was given to Didier Fassin in 2016. The awards are handed out by the king of Sweden on 24 April, the anniversary of Nordenskiöld's return to Stockholm.\n\nkritisk etnografi – Swedish Journal of Anthropology is a biannual peer-reviewed open access academic journal covering the field of ethnography. It was established in 2018 and is published by the Swedish Society for Anthropology and Geography. The first part of the journal name, \"kritisk etnografi\" (critical ethnography) is in Swedish. The editors-in-chief are Sten Hagberg (Uppsala University) and Jörgen Hellman (University of Gothenburg).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12813057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12813057", "title": "Telephone numbers in Germany", "text": "Telephone numbers in Germany\n\nThe regulation of telephone numbers in Germany is the responsibility of the Federal Network Agency (\"German:\" Bundesnetzagentur, BNetzA) of the German government. The agency has a mandate to telecommunications in Germany and other infrastructure systems.\n\nGermany has an open telephone numbering plan. There used to be no fixed lengths for either area codes or subscriber telephone numbers, meaning that some subscriber numbers may be as short as two digits. As a result, dialing sequences are generally of a variable length, except for some non-geographic area codes for which subscriber numbers use a fixed-length format. It is not possible to determine unambiguously the end of a phone number from a prefix or the digits already dialed. This feature allows the extension of the length of phone numbers without revoking or changing existing numbers.\nCell phone numbers in Germany are not given geographic area codes but non-geographic codes. Thus they can easily be told apart from other numbers.\n\nA new numbering plan was introduced on May 3, 2010. Since then new landline phone numbers have a standard length of 11 digits including the area code and omitting the trunk prefix 0. Area codes remain as they are and are still variable in length. Exceptions to the 11 digit rule are the four cities of Berlin, Frankfurt, Hamburg and Munich which are the only cities with two digit area codes and require only 10 digit numbers so as not to exceed the maximum length of 8 digits for a subscriber number.\n\nThe German telephone network uses 5200 geographical area codes, the length of which varies from two to five digits (not including the trunk code 0), with five-digit area codes only being assigned in the New States (prefix 03). In general, geographic area codes start with digits 02 to 09, whereas other non-geographic area codes including those for cell phone usage are assigned to 01 and network services to 11.\n\nGeographic area codes have a length of two to five digits. The maximum total length is eleven digits.\n\nGeographic numbers are assigned to carriers in blocks, from which these carriers can make derivative assignments to subscribers.\n\nSubscriber numbers do not start with 0 or 11 and can be called directly from landlines within the same geographic area code.\n\nOriginally, the first digits following the area code would indicate a smaller area within these area codes or the type of the subscriber line (analogue or ISDN). However, this is no longer true as subscribers can keep their numbers when moving within an area code or when switching from analogue to ISDN. Further, new carriers assign numbers from different blocks.\n\n\n\n\n\nNon-geographic numbers were originally assigned the prefix 01. However, some of these services have been moved to other area codes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNetwork services are not dialed with the trunk prefix 0. They resemble local numbers that start with 11 but usually cannot be dialed after an area code.\n\n\nBefore German reunification, West Germany (including West Berlin) used country code +49 and East Germany used country code +37, each with its separate area codes and telephone networks. In 1992, two years after reunification, the phone networks were merged under country code +49.\n\nGeographic numbers in the New States were assigned area codes starting with 03, in some cases followed by the former East German area code (without the initial 0) or a code similar to it. Thus, Leipzig, for example, which had used East German domestic area code 041, was assigned the new area code 0341 in the unified telephone system. On the other hand, some area codes were changed: for example, the small town of Zossen used to have East German area code 0323, but the new area code is 03377. Area code 030, formerly used by West Berlin, was assigned to the entire reunified Berlin.\n\nThe released country code +37 was later reused as the initial digits of several new codes for European countries that became independent states at the time (e.g.: +370 for Lithuania, +374 for Armenia, +375 for Belarus, etc.), as well as some microstates whose telephone networks had formerly been integrated to those of surrounding larger countries (e.g. +376 for Andorra, +377 for Monaco and +378 for San Marino).\n\nThe German phone network became fully digitised in 1997, allowing more flexible use of the numbering space.\n\nOn 1 January 1998, the Federal Network Agency (named the Regulatory Authority for Telecommunications and Postal Services at the time) became the numbering authority for phone numbers in Germany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32893398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32893398", "title": "Timote Gabashvili", "text": "Timote Gabashvili\n\nTimote (Timothy) Gabashvili (Georgian: ტიმოთე გაბაშვილი) (1703–1764) was a Georgian travel writer, traveler, diplomat, cartographer, religious and public figure. \n\n\"Mimosvla\" - Travels by Timote Gabashvili, 1759\n"}
{"id": "4523474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4523474", "title": "Tuffeau stone", "text": "Tuffeau stone\n\nTuffeau stone — in French, simply tuffeau or tufeau — is a local limestone of the Loire Valley of France. It is characterized as a chalky or sandy, fine-grained limestone, white to yellowish-cream in appearance, and micaceous (containing some white flakes of mica, or muscovite). The soft stone is extracted from numerous quarries and has made a major mark on the architectural landscape of the Loire and its tributaries — especially the valley's world-famous chateaux. \n\nTuffeau dates to the Mesozoic era (Upper Cretaceous Turonian stage). The Loire Valley formed the floor of a vast sea 90 million years ago. Over the millennia, sediment from the sea floor, comprising fossilized living organisms and sand particles, became compressed to form what is now known as Tuffeau stone. It differs from genuine chalk by the presence of foraminifera and many remains of shells originally deposited in shallow water (between 2 and 20 meters) and subsequently agitated, near a coastline. In contrast, true chalk is rich in another type of shelly micro-fossil, the coccolith, which was deposited in deeper (~ 200 meters), and quieter, water.\n\nThe term \"tuffeau\" is etymologically related to another stone, tuff, to which is it not geologically related — and to tufa, to which it is geologically related. These words derive from Italian \"tufo\" and from Latin \"tōphus\" or \"tōfus\" (\"stone\").\n\nTuffeau has a very low density compared with many other rocks, being half as dense as granite, comparable in density with ebony, and only about 10 to 20% heavier than water. It has porosity of up to 50%, whereas that of granite is only about 1%. The compressive strength of the stone is a factor of 10 to 20 times less than that of granite.\n\nWhen mixed with local sand and flinty clays from later eras, tuffeau is said to create the best vineyards soils.\n\nTuffeau mining reached its peak in the 15th century. As a construction material — especially in the Touraine and Anjou regions — tuffeau has been extracted mostly from natural riverside bluffs, which are extensive. The extracted blocks could thus be loaded onto boats. Over the centuries, this has created extensive underground galleries, or mines, some of which are several kilometers in extent. These artificial caves have long been used as human dwellings, as the indoor temperature is remarkably constant from summer to winter. The greatest concentration of these cave dwellers — \"les troglodytes\" — is in the region of Saumur.\n\nThe mines are a perfect environment for wine cellars. Many of the larger caves have become \"champignonnieres\" — i.e., are used for growing a commercial variety of mushroom, which is transported daily to the markets of Paris.\n\nNumerous buildings in the Loire Valley, from the most modest to the most grandiose, were built from blocks of tuffeau stone, including the Château de Beaulieu near Saumur, the Château d'Ussé and the Château de la Motte d'Usseau, and many worker's cottages at Longères.\n\n"}
{"id": "36327002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36327002", "title": "Tunnel People", "text": "Tunnel People\n\nTunnel People is an anthropological-journalistic account describing an underground homeless community in New York City. It is written by war photographer and anthropologist Teun Voeten and was published by the Oakland-based independent publishing house PM Press in 2010.\n\nIn late 1980s and early 1990s New York, thousands of the homeless roamed the streets. Most slept on the streets or in shelters, but a small group of them went underground and took refuge in the huge system of subway and train tunnels. One of the biggest and most accessible groups of these homeless people lived in part of the Amtrak tunnel, which runs for 50 blocks under Manhattan’s Riverside Park. Over time the tunnel became home to some 75 people who lived scattered in small groups in self made shacks, in empty maintenance bunkers, or in recesses and caves along the tunnel wall. Graffiti artists used the blank cement spaces as canvases for their work and named it the Freedom Tunnel.\n\nSeveral journalists wrote articles and made documentaries about tunnel life and the individuals living there. However, few of the journalists spent much time underground and some even produced stories, which lacked the necessary intimate knowledge of their subjects to be completely accurate.\n\nThe tunnel people were evicted in 1996, but Amtrak and homeless organizations were able, with support from the federal government, to develop a plan that would offer them alternative housing. Journalists who had established relations of trust with the tunnel people, such as Marc Singer, Margaret Morton and the author helped the tunnel people through the administrative process. Some succeeded in starting new lives above ground. Currently, the original tunnel is sealed off and all inhabitable structures are pulled down and destroyed. Nevertheless, a few individuals still live underground, but the city appears to tolerate them as long as they do not erect permanent structures.\n\nTeun Voeten was brought into the tunnel by Terry Williams, an ethnographer from the New School of Social Research. There he was introduced to one of the tunnel residents, Bernard Isaac, who became his guide. After a few visits, Voeten asked Isaacs for permission to join the tunnel people in taking up residence there. Isaacs agreed, and Voeten was given an empty bunker in his camp. Voeten lived there full-time for a period of 5 months, from the winter of 1994 and into the summer of 1995. By helping the people with their work, mainly collecting redeemable cans, and sharing their daily life, Voeten gained the confidence of many tunnel dwellers and obtained a wealth of ethnographic details about tunnel life and homeless life in the mid 90s.\n\n\"Tunnel People\" focuses on the lives of a few individuals: Bernard Isaacs, the main character in the book. He is a well mannered and eloquent man who has been nicknamed \"Lord of the Tunnel\"; Isaacs' neighbor Bob, a former short order cook with a drug problem; Tony, A Puerto\nRican ex-convict; Marcus, a macrobiotic hippie; and Julio, another Puerto Rican young man who is an alcoholic. There are also Estoban, a Cuban refugee who lost all his papers; his Cuban neighbors Poncho and Getulio; Joe and Kathy, a reclusive Vietnam veteran and his wife who keep 20 cats; Frankie, a young runaway and his friend Ment, who appears always to run into trouble with the law. Voeten describes the events of their daily lives in great detail, sometimes literally transcribing their conversations. Several chapters are devoted to the economy of the homeless. Contrary to popular assumptions, the homeless in the tunnel do not primarily resort to begging, but have developed quiet sophisticated ways to generate income. Some trade books and items they find on the streets; most however collect cans and redeem them for 5 cents a piece at supermarkets. One chapter is a discussion of homelessness in which Voeten makes an inventory of the most important literature on homelessness then in existence. In another chapter, Voeten researches the many organizations that cater to the homeless. In many interviews, he speaks with aid workers, policemen and subway officials who work with homeless people. The last chapters of the book are devoted how the tunnel people are dealing with their upcoming eviction. In the updated U.S. version of the book, Voeten was able to track down many tunnel dwellers and relates their present circumstances in additional chapters. In a separate section are 32 black and white photos made by the author himself.\n\n\"Tunnel People\" was first published in 1996 under the title \"Tunnelmensen\" by Atlas Publishers, Amsterdam. The U.S. edition that was released in 2010 was translated by author Teun Voeten himself. In this last edition he added a few new chapters in which he tracks down most tunnel dwellers and described what happened with them in the thirteen years since the original book was published.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "246052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246052", "title": "UN/LOCODE", "text": "UN/LOCODE\n\nUN/LOCODE, the United Nations Code for Trade and Transport Locations, is a geographic coding scheme developed and maintained by United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE). UN/LOCODE assigns codes to locations used in trade and transport with functions such as seaports, rail and road terminals, airports, Postal Exchange Office and border crossing points. The first issue in 1981 contained codes for 8,000 locations. The version from 2011 contained codes for about 82,000 locations.\n\nUN/LOCODEs have five characters. The first two letters code a country by the table defined in ISO 3166-1 alpha-2. The three remaining characters code a location within that country. Letters are preferred, but if necessary digits 2 through 9 may be used, excluding \"0\" and \"1\" to avoid confusion with the letters \"O\" and \"I\" respectively.\n\nFor each country there can be a maximum of 17,576 entries using only letters (26×26×26), or 39,304 entries using letters and digits (34×34×34).\n\nFor the US, the letter combinations have almost all been exhausted. So in 2006, the Secretariat added 646 entries with a digit as the last character.\n\nFor airports, the three letters following the country code are not always identical to the IATA airport code. According to the Secretariat note for Issue 2006-2, there are 720 locations showing a different IATA code.\n\nUN/LOCODEs are released as a table. An individual revision is officially referred to as an \"issue\". A discussion of the table's structure follows.\n\n\n\nThe fields are listed in the official order.\n\nAvailability\nUN/LOCODE is available on the UNECE website, where the latest release of UNLOCOD directories and background documents are listed. Complete UN/LOCODE code list may be downloaded in the format of.mdb (MS Access database), .txt (text file) and .csv (Comma-separated values). HTML pages are also displayed on the website by countries.\n\nUN/LOCODE Data Maintenance Request system is web-based (http://apps.unece.org/unlocode/), which enables registered users to submit online requests for new UN/LOCODE entry modifications.\n\nThe system provides online functions for \n\nOccasionally locations are listed twice; this is not necessarily an error. In issue 2006-1, ARSMC San Miguel de Tucumán (functions 2,3) was added while ARTUC Tucumán (function 1) already was in the list. The coordinates are with very little deviation the same. Also in 2006-1, ARSSJ San Salvador de Jujuy was added (function 4) while ARJUJ Jujuy (functions 1,2,3,5) already existed.\n\nUS TRI + US BSO, same coor and within TRI different coor\n\nThe 2009-1 release added several entries for Ukraine where the longitude is off by a few orders of magnitude. Ranging from 23230E to 38829E, they are outside what would constitute an eastern longitude. Ivano Frankovsk and Chuguyev have two entries now, along with Nikolayev. For all three, the romanized spelling varies.\n\nOther entries with wrong coordinates:\n\nFor the US more codes with one letter and the number 9 alone were added. For the range H to M they are:\n\nSome entries do not have coordinates, so it is not clear where they actually refer to. If an IATA code changes, then the UN/LOCODE could also be considered to have changed.\n\nFor Kochi / Cochin the postal function has KOC (1998) and all other functions have COK (2003).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5520842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5520842", "title": "UN/LOCODE:AR", "text": "UN/LOCODE:AR\n\nThe UN/LOCODEs for Argentina start with AR, the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code for that country.\n\nIn edition 2006-1 24 codes were added. In edition 2007 3 codes were added.\n\n"}
{"id": "8155674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8155674", "title": "Victoria Medal (geography)", "text": "Victoria Medal (geography)\n\nThe Victoria Medal is an award presented by the Royal Geographical Society. It is awarded \"for conspicuous merit in research in geography\" and has been given since 1902, in honour of the late Queen Victoria. Up until then, the society's Patron's Medal had alternatively been known as the \"Victoria Medal\", and the new medal resembled its original design.\n\n\nRoyal Geographical Society's page of links to lists of past recipients.\n"}
