{"id": "27450868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27450868", "title": "816 Nuclear Military Plant", "text": "816 Nuclear Military Plant\n\n816 Nuclear Military Plant (), is an unfinished Chinese underground nuclear weapons production facility and the largest man made tunnel structure in the world. A military megaproject, The nuclear base is located near what is now suburban Fuling, a municipality in Southwest China, in 2010 it was opened to Chinese tourists. It is a distinct network of nuclear-weapons manufacturing tunnels to the likewise defunct Underground Project 131 and the still operational, \"Underground Great Wall of China.\"\n\nThe base has the “World's Largest Artificial Cave”. The project was started in 1966 when Sino-Soviet relations dramatically declined (see also the Sino-Soviet split). To enhance China's national defence and prevent possible Soviet invasion and nuclear attack, the project was approved (directly by then-Premier Zhou Enlai) and undertaken in secret. More than 60,000 engineering soldiers of the People's Liberation Army participated in the construction of the base. The underground base was designed to be able to tolerate thousands of tons of TNT explosives and 8-magnitude earthquakes.\n\nThe surface area of the cave is more than 104,000 m, and the total length of the tunnels is more than 20 kilometers. The whole complex consists of 13 levels, 18 artificial caves linked to each other, and has more than 80 roads and 130 tunnels. Automobiles such as cars are able to pass the roads and tunnels inside. The largest artificial cave has a height of 79.6 meters, and is roughly equal to that of a 20-floor building.\n\nThe project was under construction for 17 years, and the construction was nearly completed in 1984. In 1964 China made its first public nuclear test. Largely due to change in the Cold War international situation, the project was cancelled in February 1984. It was further declassified in April 2002. In April 2010, after 40 years of closure, the base was opened to tourists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30518652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30518652", "title": "Albanian Vilayet", "text": "Albanian Vilayet\n\nThe Albanian Vilayet (, \"Vilâyet-i Arnavid\") was a projected \"vilayet\" of the Ottoman Empire in the western Balkan Peninsula, which was to include the four Ottoman vilayets with substantial ethnic Albanian populations: Kosovo Vilayet, Scutari Vilayet, Manastir Vilayet and Janina Vilayet. At times it included the Salonica Vilayet too. The creation of the Vilayet was confirmed in September 1912, but negotiations were interrupted a month later in October by the beginning of the First Balkan War. Plans for an Albanian Vilayet were lost with the Partition of Albania.\n\nA separate Albanian super-vilayet was a part of the agenda of many Albanian organizations and societies since 1877, during the period known as the Albanian National Awakening. Establishment of such a vilayet was agreed between the Albanian rebels and the authorized representatives of the Ottoman government on September 4, 1912, following the Albanian Revolt of 1912. Soon after that agreement however, the First Balkan War broke out and most of the remaining European territory of the Ottoman Empire was occupied by the Balkan League member states. After the army of the Kingdom of Serbia captured Skopje, Ismail Qemali invited a group of Albanians from all four Ottoman vilayets that were agreed to be united into the Albanian Vilayet, to attend an All-Albanian Congress in Valona. There they declared independence on November 28, 1912, and set up the Provisional Government of Albania.\n\nThe same territories were claimed by nations in the region that had already raised their national development to independent statehood: Shkodër vilayet was claimed by the Serbs and Montenegrins, Kosovo vilayet by the Serbs, Montenegrins and Bulgarians, Monastir vilayet by the Serbs, Greeks and Bulgarians and Janina Vilayet by the Greeks. A few weeks after the beginning of the First Balkan War, the biggest part of the territories intended for the Albanian Vilayet was in the hands of Balkan League member states, as a condominium. Final frontiers between the Balkan League members and the new Principality of Albania were decided by the treaties of London and Bucharest, and ignored the frontiers of the proposed Albanian Vilayet, leaving substantial Albanian populations living outside the newly established Albanian nation-state.\n\nThe Central Committee for Defending Albanian Rights was organization established in the city of Istanbul, Turkey, then Ottoman Empire in 1877 by an influential group of Albanian intellectuals, patriots, and politicians, such as Sami Frashëri, Pashko Vasa, Abdyl Frashëri and many others. The chairman of the Committee was Abdyl Frashëri.\n\nThis Committee published the idea for uniting the vilayets of Monastiri, Scutari, Kosovo and Janina into one Albanian vilayet in the paper Tercüman-ı Hakikat. Contrary to what is often said, a claim for territories very often included the Salonica Vilayet too.\n\nThe League of Prizren was an Albanian political organization founded on 10 June 1878 in Prizren, in the Kosovo province (\"vilayet\") of the Ottoman Empire. The initial position of the league, based on the religious solidarity of the landlords and the people connected with the Ottoman administration and the religious authorities, was reason for naming the league — The Committee of the Real Muslims () On the first meeting of the league was written a decision memorandum (kararname) that did not mention reforms, autonomy, or the union of the Albanian populated vilayets into one vilayet.\n\nSoon after the first meeting of this organization it adopted a new agenda, under the influence of Abdyl Frashëri, that included establishing of the Albanian Vilayet. It was not an appeal for Albanian independence, or even autonomy within Ottoman Empire but, as proposed by Pashko Vasa, simply the unification of all Albanian speaking territory within one vilayet.\n\nTercümân-i-Şark () (newspapers which provided detailed coverage about events in Albanian populated area), in which Sami Frashëri was member of the staff, reported about the events in the Albanian populated area () and about the \"unionist society\" () established by the delegates of League of Prizren.\n\nThe League of Peja () was an Albanian political organization established in 1899 in the city of Peć (Peja), Kosovo. It was led by Haxhi Zeka, a former member of the League of Prizren and shared the same platform in quest for an autonomous Albanian vilayet within Ottoman Empire. There were two groups of members. The first group of conservative and more moderate members wanted five vilayets (with Salonica Vilayet included) to be united into the Albanian vilayet, and the second group of the more radical members wanted full administrative autonomy for the four vilayets united in the Albanian vilayet.\n\nThe Albanian Revolt of 1912 was one of many Albanian revolts in the Ottoman Empire and lasted from January until August 1912. The revolt started in the western part of Kosovo vilayet and was led by Hasan Pristina, Nexhip Draga, Bajram Curri, Riza Bey and others. Hasan Prishtina who was in the Kosovo vilayet during the revolt, and Ismail Qemali who was in Europe gathering weapons and money and attempting to win over European public opinion to the cause of the uprising, maintained communication through the British Consulate in Skopje. Essad Pasha Toptani obliged himself to organize the uprising in Central Albania and Mirdita.\n\nAfter a series of successes, Albanian rebels managed to capture the city of Skopje, the administrative centre of Kosovo vilayet within the Ottoman rule. The revolt ended when the Ottoman government agreed to accept all demands (ignoring only last one, court martial for Ottoman officers who attempted to suppress revolt) on September 4, 1912.\n\nOn August 9, 1912 Albanian rebels presented new list of demands (so called list of \"Fourteen Points\") related to the Albanian vilayet that can be summarized as follows:\n\nThe Ottoman government ended the Albanian revolts by accepting all demands (ignoring only last one) on September 4, 1912. Hasan Prishtina was planning to start new revolt in three or four months, because his main goal was not autonomy but independence of Albanian Vilayet, but the First Balkan War broke out soon and destroyed his plans.\n\nWhen the First Balkan War broke out, members of the Balkan League captured most of the territory that was promised to be Albanian Vilayet in period October—December 1912. Balkan allies planned the partition of the European territory of the Ottoman Empire among them and in the meantime the conquered territory was agreed to have status of the Condominium. The final fate of the captured territory was to be decided by the Treaty of London and Treaty of Bucharest.\n\nWhen the army of Kingdom of Serbia won Battle of Kumanovo and seized the Skopje and when the Bulgarian army captured Kırk Kilise, at the beginning of the First Balkan War, Ismail Qemali decided to send telegrams to Albanians from the Albanian Vilayet to come to congress to Valona on November 28, 1912. They declared independence and set up a provisional government.\n\nThe Treaties of London and Bucharest dealt with the territorial adjustments arising out of the conclusion of the Balkan Wars. The frontiers of the newly established Principality of Albania covered only the portion of the territory of Albanian vilayet while its biggest part become the part of the Slavic states and Greece (Balkan League). The Kingdom of Bulgaria lost the conquered parts of the Albanian vilayet during the Second Balkan War.\n\n"}
{"id": "54991096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54991096", "title": "Appalachian Province", "text": "Appalachian Province\n\nThe Appalachian Province is a floristic province within the North American Atlantic Region, a floristic region within the Holarctic Kingdom. It was historically covered by deciduous forest. The province includes southern Ontario and Quebec, down to central Georgia and Alabama. It includes most of Arkansas, part of eastern Texas, and stretches west through the Ouachita Mountains, Ozark Plateau, eastern Iowa, and southeastern Minnesota. It is bounded on the north by the Canadian Province, on the east and south by the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plain Province, and on the west by the North American Prairies Province.\n\n"}
{"id": "24068062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24068062", "title": "Bikuli, Kapilvastu", "text": "Bikuli, Kapilvastu\n\nBikuli is a small village in the Niglihawa Village Development committee (NVDC), ward number 4 in the kapilvastu district of western Nepal. The village was named Bikuli because, there were no water sources (Kulo) for irrigation in that village and hence meaning is without canals. Bikuli was new version of Bekulo ('Be' stands for 'not' and 'Kulo' stands for 'canals').\n\nThe village is situated 8 Km north of the district Capital city,capital, Taulihawa and 8.5 km north of the Tilaurakot, the proper kapilvastu, where Lord Gautam Buddha is said to have been born and grown up. While this is 12 km south from the East-West Highway of Nepal. This place lies on the bank of the largest man-made Lake of Asia called Jagadishpur taal (lake). The lake also called reservoir, made for the collection of river water for the irrigation of the southern belt of the Kapilvastu District during the dry season.\n"}
{"id": "3383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3383", "title": "Brazil", "text": "Brazil\n\nBrazil ( ), officially the Federative Republic of Brazil (, ), is the largest country in both South America and Latin America. At 8.5 million square kilometers (3.2 million square miles) and with over 208 million people, Brazil is the world's fifth-largest country by area and the fifth most populous. The capital is Brasília, and the most populated city is São Paulo. The federation is composed of the union of the 26 states, the Federal District, and the 5,570 municipalities. It is the largest country to have Portuguese as an official language and the only one in the Americas; it is also one of the most multicultural and ethnically diverse nations, due to over a century of mass immigration from around the world.\n\nBounded by the Atlantic Ocean on the east, Brazil has a coastline of . It borders all other South American countries except Ecuador and Chile and covers 47.3% of the continent's land area. Its Amazon River basin includes a vast tropical forest, home to diverse wildlife, a variety of ecological systems, and extensive natural resources spanning numerous protected habitats. This unique environmental heritage makes Brazil one of 17 megadiverse countries, and is the subject of significant global interest and debate regarding deforestation and environmental protection.\n\nBrazil was inhabited by numerous tribal nations prior to the landing in 1500 of explorer Pedro Álvares Cabral, who claimed the area for the Portuguese Empire. Brazil remained a Portuguese colony until 1808, when the capital of the empire was transferred from Lisbon to Rio de Janeiro. In 1815, the colony was elevated to the rank of kingdom upon the formation of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves. Independence was achieved in 1822 with the creation of the Empire of Brazil, a unitary state governed under a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary system. The ratification of the first constitution in 1824 led to the formation of a bicameral legislature, now called the National Congress. The country became a presidential republic in 1889 following a military coup d'état. An authoritarian military junta came to power in 1964 and ruled until 1985, after which civilian governance resumed. Brazil's current constitution, formulated in 1988, defines it as a democratic federal republic. Due to its rich culture and history, the country ranks thirteenth in the world by number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites.\n\nBrazil is considered an advanced emerging economy. It has the eighth largest GDP in the world by both nominal and PPP measures. It is one of the world's major breadbaskets, being the largest producer of coffee for the last 150 years. It is classified as an upper-middle income economy by the World Bank and a newly industrialized country, with the largest share of global wealth in Latin America. Brazil is a regional power in Latin America and sometimes considered a great power in international affairs, while some analysts identify it as a middle power. It has an international recognition and influence, and is subsequently classified as an emerging power and a potential superpower by several analysts. Brazil is a founding member of the United Nations, the G20, BRICS, Union of South American Nations, Mercosul, Organization of American States, Organization of Ibero-American States and the Community of Portuguese Language Countries.\n\nIt is likely that the word \"Brazil\" comes from the Portuguese word for brazilwood, a tree that once grew plentifully along the Brazilian coast. In Portuguese, brazilwood is called \"pau-brasil\", with the word \"brasil\" commonly given the etymology \"red like an ember\", formed from Latin \"brasa\" (\"ember\") and the suffix \"-il\" (from \"-iculum\" or \"-ilium\"). As brazilwood produces a deep red dye, it was highly valued by the European textile industry and was the earliest commercially exploited product from Brazil. Throughout the 16th century, massive amounts of brazilwood were harvested by indigenous peoples (mostly Tupi) along the Brazilian coast, who sold the timber to European traders (mostly Portuguese, but also French) in return for assorted European consumer goods.\n\nThe official Portuguese name of the land, in original Portuguese records, was the \"Land of the Holy Cross\" (\"Terra da Santa Cruz\"), but European sailors and merchants commonly called it simply the \"Land of Brazil\" (\"Terra do Brasil\") because of the brazilwood trade. The popular appellation eclipsed and eventually supplanted the official Portuguese name. Some early sailors called it the \"Land of Parrots\".\n\nIn the Guarani language, an official language of Paraguay, Brazil is called \"Pindorama\". This was the name the indigenous population gave to the region, meaning \"land of the palm trees\".\n\nSome of the earliest human remains found in the Americas, Luzia Woman, were found in the area of Pedro Leopoldo, Minas Gerais and provide evidence of human habitation going back at least 11,000 years. The earliest pottery ever found in the Western Hemisphere was excavated in the Amazon basin of Brazil and radiocarbon dated to 8,000 years ago (6000 BC). The pottery was found near Santarém and provides evidence that the tropical forest region supported a complex prehistoric culture. The Marajoara culture flourished on Marajó in the Amazon delta from 800 CE to 1400 CE, developing sophisticated pottery, social stratification, large populations, mound building, and complex social formations such as chiefdoms.\n\nAround the time of the Portuguese arrival, the territory of current day Brazil had an estimated indigenous population of 7 million people, mostly semi-nomadic who subsisted on hunting, fishing, gathering, and migrant agriculture. The indigenous population of Brazil comprised several large indigenous ethnic groups (e.g. the Tupis, Guaranis, Gês and Arawaks). The Tupí people were subdivided into the Tupiniquins and Tupinambás, and there were also many subdivisions of the other groups.\n\nBefore the arrival of the Europeans, the boundaries between these groups and their subgroups were marked by wars that arose from differences in culture, language and moral beliefs. These wars also involved large-scale military actions on land and water, with cannibalistic rituals on prisoners of war. While heredity had some weight, leadership status was more subdued over time, than allocated in succession ceremonies and conventions. Slavery among the Indians had a different meaning than it had for Europeans, since it originated from a diverse socioeconomic organization, in which asymmetries were translated into kinship relations.\n\nThe land now called Brazil was claimed for the Portuguese Empire on 22 April 1500, with the arrival of the Portuguese fleet commanded by Pedro Álvares Cabral. The Portuguese encountered indigenous peoples divided into several tribes, most of whom spoke languages of the Tupi–Guarani family, and fought among themselves. Though the first settlement was founded in 1532, colonization effectively began in 1534, when King John III of Portugal divided the territory into the fifteen private and autonomous Captaincy Colonies of Brazil.\n\nHowever, the decentralized and unorganized tendencies of the captaincy colonies proved problematic, and in 1549 the Portuguese king restructured them into the Governorate General of Brazil, a single and centralized Portuguese colony in South America. In the first two centuries of colonization, Indigenous and European groups lived in constant war, establishing opportunistic alliances in order to gain advantages against each other. By the mid-16th century, cane sugar had become Brazil's most important export, and slaves purchased in Sub-Saharan Africa, in the slave market of Western Africa (not only those from Portuguese allies of their colonies in Angola and Mozambique), had become its largest import, to cope with plantations of sugarcane, due to increasing international demand for Brazilian sugar.\n\nBy the end of the 17th century, sugarcane exports began to decline, and the discovery of gold by bandeirantes in the 1690s would become the new backbone of the colony's economy, fostering a Brazilian Gold Rush which attracted thousands of new settlers to Brazil from Portugal and all Portuguese colonies around the world. This increased level of immigration in turn caused some conflicts between newcomers and old settlers.\n\nPortuguese expeditions known as Bandeiras gradually advanced the Portugal colonial original frontiers in South America to approximately the current Brazilian borders. In this era other European powers tried to colonize parts of Brazil, in incursions that the Portuguese had to fight, notably the French in Rio during the 1560s, in Maranhão during the 1610s, and the Dutch in Bahia and Pernambuco, during the Dutch–Portuguese War, after the end of Iberian Union.\n\nThe Portuguese colonial administration in Brazil had two objectives that would ensure colonial order and the monopoly of Portugal's wealthiest and largest colony: to keep under control and eradicate all forms of slave rebellion and resistance, such as the Quilombo of Palmares, and to repress all movements for autonomy or independence, such as the Minas Conspiracy.\nIn late 1807, Spanish and Napoleonic forces threatened the security of continental Portugal, causing Prince Regent João, in the name of Queen Maria I, to move the royal court from Lisbon to Rio de Janeiro. There they established some of Brazil's first financial institutions, such as its local stock exchanges, and its National Bank, additionally ending the Portuguese monopoly on Brazilian trade and opening Brazil to other nations. In 1809, in retaliation for being forced into exile, the Prince Regent ordered the Portuguese conquest of French Guiana.\n\nWith the end of the Peninsular War in 1814, the courts of Europe demanded that Queen Maria I and Prince Regent João return to Portugal, deeming it unfit for the head of an ancient European monarchy to reside in a colony. In 1815, to justify continuing to live in Brazil, where the royal court had thrived for the prior six years, the Crown established the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil, and the Algarves, thus creating a pluricontinental transatlantic monarchic state. However, such a ploy didn't last long, since the leadership in Portugal, resentful of the new status of its larger colony, continued to require the return of court to Lisbon (as postulated by the Liberal Revolution of 1820), and also groups of Brazilians, impatient for practical and real changes, still demanded independence and a republic, as demonstrated by the 1817 Pernambucan Revolt.\nIn 1821, as a demand of revolutionaries who had taken the city of Porto, D. João VI was unable to hold out any longer, and departed for Lisbon. There he swore an oath to the new constitution, leaving his son, Prince Pedro de Alcântara, as Regent of the Kingdom of Brazil.\n\nTensions between Portuguese and Brazilians increased, and the Portuguese Cortes, guided by the new political regime imposed by the 1820 Liberal Revolution, tried to re-establish Brazil as a colony. The Brazilians refused to yield, and Prince Pedro decided to stand with them, declaring the country's independence from Portugal on 7 September 1822. A month later, Prince Pedro was declared the first Emperor of Brazil, with the royal title of Dom Pedro I, resulting in the foundation of the Empire of Brazil.\n\nThe Brazilian War of Independence, which had already begun along this process, spread through northern, northeastern regions and in Cisplatina province. The last Portuguese soldiers surrendered on 8 March 1824; Portugal officially recognized Brazil on 29 August 1825.\n\nOn 7 April 1831, worn down by years of administrative turmoil and political dissent with both liberal and conservative sides of politics, including an attempt of republican secession, and unreconciled to the way that absolutists in Portugal had given in the succession of King John VI, Pedro I went to Portugal to reclaim his daughter's crown, abdicating the Brazilian throne in favor of his five-year-old son and heir (who thus became the Empire's second monarch, with the royal title of Dom Pedro II).\nAs the new Emperor could not exert his constitutional powers until he became of age, a regency was set up by the National Assembly. In the absence of a charismatic figure who could represent a moderate face of power, during this period a series of localized rebellions took place, such as the Cabanagem in Grão-Pará Province, the Malê Revolt in Salvador da Bahia, the Balaiada (Maranhão), the Sabinada (Bahia), and the Ragamuffin War beginning in Rio Grande do Sul and supported by Giuseppe Garibaldi. These emerged from the dissatisfaction of the provinces with the central power, coupled with old and latent social tensions peculiar to a vast, slaveholding and newly independent nation state. This period of internal political and social upheaval, which included the Praieira revolt in Pernambuco, was overcome only at the end of the 1840s, years after the end of the regency, which occurred with the premature coronation of Pedro II in 1841.\n\nDuring the last phase of the monarchy, internal political debate centered on the issue of slavery. The Atlantic slave trade was abandoned in 1850, as a result of the British Aberdeen Act, but only in May 1888 after a long process of internal mobilization and debate for an ethical and legal dismantling of slavery in the country, was the institution formally abolished.\n\nThe foreign affairs in the monarchy were basically related to issues with the countries of the Southern Cone with which Brazil had borders. Long after the Cisplatine War that resulted in independence for Uruguay, Brazil won three international wars during the 58-year reign of Pedro II. These were the Platine War, the Uruguayan War and the devastating Paraguayan War, the largest war effort in Brazilian history.\n\nAlthough there was no desire among the majority of Brazilians to change the country's form of government, on 15 November 1889, in attrition with the majority of Army officers, as well as with rural and financial elites (for different reasons), the monarchy was overthrown by a military coup. 15 November is now Republic Day, a national holiday.\n\nThe early republican government was nothing more than a military dictatorship, with army dominating affairs both at Rio de Janeiro and in the states. Freedom of the press disappeared and elections were controlled by those in power. Only in 1894, following the unfoldings of two severe crises, an economic along with a military one, the civilians rose to power staying there until October 1930.\n\nIf in relation to its foreign policy, the country in this first republican period maintained a relative balance characterized by a success in resolving border disputes with neighboring countries, only broken by the Acre War (1899–1902) and its involvement in World War I (1914–1918), followed by a failed attempt to exert a prominent role in the League of Nations; \"Internally\", from the \"crisis of Encilhamento\" and the Armada Revolts, a prolonged cycle of financial, political and social instability began Until the 1920s, keeping the country besieged by various rebellions, both civilian and military.\nLittle by little, a cycle of general instability sparked by these crises undermined the regime to such an extent, that in the wake of the murder of his running mate, the defeated opposition presidential candidate Getúlio Vargas supported by most of the military, successfully led the October 1930 Coup. Vargas and the military were supposed to assume power temporarily, but instead closed the Congress, extinguished the Constitution, ruled with emergency powers and replaced the states' governors with their own supporters.\n\nIn the 1930s, three failed attempts to remove Vargas and his supporters from power occurred. The first was the Constitutionalist Revolution in 1932, led by the Paulista oligarchy. The second was a Communist uprising in November 1935, and the last one a \"putsch\" attempt by local fascists in May 1938. The 1935 uprising created a security crisis in which the Congress transferred more power to the executive. The 1937 \"coup d'état\" resulted in the cancellation of the 1938 election, formalized Vargas as dictator, beginning the Estado Novo era, which was noted for government brutality and censorship of the press.\n\nForeign policy during Vargas years was marked by the antecedents and World War II. Brazil remained neutral until August 1942, when the country entered on the allied side, after suffering retaliation by Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy, in a strategic dispute over the South Atlantic. In addition to its participation in the battle of the Atlantic, Brazil also sent an expeditionary force to fight in the Italian campaign.\n\nWith the Allied victory in 1945 and the end of the Nazi-fascist regimes in Europe, Vargas's position became unsustainable and he was swiftly overthrown in another military coup, with democracy \"reinstated\" by the same army that had ended it 15 years earlier. Vargas committed suicide in August 1954 amid a political crisis, after having returned to power by election in 1950.\n\nSeveral brief interim governments followed Vargas's suicide. Juscelino Kubitschek became president in 1956 and assumed a conciliatory posture towards the political opposition that allowed him to govern without major crises. The economy and industrial sector grew remarkably, but his greatest achievement was the construction of the new capital city of Brasília, inaugurated in 1960. \nKubitschek's successor, Jânio Quadros, resigned in 1961 less than a year after taking office. His vice-president, João Goulart, assumed the presidency, but aroused strong political opposition and was deposed in April 1964 by a coup that resulted in a military regime.\n\nThe new regime was intended to be transitory but gradually closed in on itself and became a full dictatorship with the promulgation of the Fifth Institutional Act in 1968. Oppression was not limited to those who resorted to guerrilla tactics to fight the regime, but also reached institutional opponents, artists, journalists and other members of civil society, inside and outside the country through the infamous \"Operation Condor\". Despite its brutality, like other authoritarian regimes, due to an economic boom, known as an \"economic miracle\", the regime reached a peak in popularity in the early 1970s.\n\nSlowly however, the wear and tear of years of dictatorial power that had not slowed the repression, even after the defeat of the leftist guerrillas, plus the inability to deal with the economic crises of the period and popular pressure, made an opening policy inevitable, which from the regime side was led by Generals Ernesto Geisel and Golbery do Couto e Silva. With the enactment of the Amnesty Law in 1979, Brazil began a slow return to democracy, which was completed during the 1980s.\n\nCivilians returned to power in 1985 when José Sarney assumed the presidency. He became unpopular during his tenure through failure to control the economic crisis and hyperinflation he inherited from the military regime. Sarney's unsuccessful government led to the election in 1989 of the almost-unknown Fernando Collor, subsequently impeached by the National Congress in 1992.\n\nCollor was succeeded by his vice-president, Itamar Franco, who appointed Fernando Henrique Cardoso Minister of Finance. In 1994, Cardoso produced a highly successful Plano Real, that, after decades of failed economic plans made by previous governments attempting to curb hyperinflation, finally stabilized the Brazilian economy. Cardoso won the 1994 election, and again in 1998.\n\nThe peaceful transition of power from Cardoso to his main opposition leader, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (elected in 2002 and re-elected in 2006), was seen as proof that Brazil had achieved a long-sought political stability. However, sparked by indignation and frustrations accumulated over decades from corruption, police brutality, inefficiencies of the political establishment and public service, numerous peaceful protests erupted in Brazil from the middle of first term of Dilma Rousseff, who had succeeded Lula after winning election in 2010.\n\nEnhanced by political and economic crises with evidence of involvement by politicians from all the primary political parties in several bribery and tax evasion schemes, with large street protests for and against her, Rousseff was impeached by the Brazilian Congress in 2016. In 2017, the Supreme Court asked for the investigation of 71 Brazilian lawmakers and nine ministers in President Michel Temer's cabinet allegedly linked to the Petrobras corruption scandal. President Temer is himself accused of corruption. In 2018, 62% of the population on a poll claimed that corruption was Brazil's biggest problem.\n\nBrazil occupies a large area along the eastern coast of South America and includes much of the continent's interior, sharing land borders with Uruguay to the south; Argentina and Paraguay to the southwest; Bolivia and Peru to the west; Colombia to the northwest; and Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname and France (French overseas region of French Guiana) to the north. It shares a border with every South American country except Ecuador and Chile. It also encompasses a number of oceanic archipelagos, such as Fernando de Noronha, Rocas Atoll, Saint Peter and Paul Rocks, and Trindade and Martim Vaz. Its size, relief, climate, and natural resources make Brazil geographically diverse. Including its Atlantic islands, Brazil lies between latitudes 6°N and 34°S, and longitudes 28° and 74°W.\n\nBrazil is the fifth largest country in the world, and third largest in the Americas, with a total area of , including of water. It spans four time zones; from UTC−5 comprising the state of Acre and the westernmost portion of Amazonas, to UTC−4 in the western states, to UTC−3 in the eastern states (the national time) and UTC−2 in the Atlantic islands.\n\nBrazil is the only country in the world that has the equator and the Tropic of Capricorn running through it. Brazilian topography is also diverse and includes hills, mountains, plains, highlands, and scrublands. Much of the terrain lies between and in elevation. The main upland area occupies most of the southern half of the country. The northwestern parts of the plateau consist of broad, rolling terrain broken by low, rounded hills.\nThe southeastern section is more rugged, with a complex mass of ridges and mountain ranges reaching elevations of up to . These ranges include the Mantiqueira and Espinhaço mountains and the Serra do Mar. In the north, the Guiana Highlands form a major drainage divide, separating rivers that flow south into the Amazon Basin from rivers that empty into the Orinoco River system, in Venezuela, to the north. The highest point in Brazil is the Pico da Neblina at , and the lowest is the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nBrazil has a dense and complex system of rivers, one of the world's most extensive, with eight major drainage basins, all of which drain into the Atlantic. Major rivers include the Amazon (the world's second-longest river and the largest in terms of volume of water), the Paraná and its major tributary the Iguaçu (which includes the Iguazu Falls), the Negro, São Francisco, Xingu, Madeira and Tapajós rivers.\n\nThe climate of Brazil comprises a wide range of weather conditions across a large area and varied topography, but most of the country is tropical. According to the Köppen system, Brazil hosts six major climatic subtypes: desert, equatorial, tropical, semiarid, oceanic and subtropical. The different climatic conditions produce environments ranging from equatorial rainforests in the north and semiarid deserts in the northeast, to temperate coniferous forests in the south and tropical savannas in central Brazil. Many regions have starkly different microclimates.\n\nAn equatorial climate characterizes much of northern Brazil. There is no real dry season, but there are some variations in the period of the year when most rain falls. Temperatures average , with more significant temperature variation between night and day than between seasons.\n\nOver central Brazil rainfall is more seasonal, characteristic of a savanna climate. This region is as extensive as the Amazon basin but has a very different climate as it lies farther south at a higher altitude. In the interior northeast, seasonal rainfall is even more extreme. The semiarid climatic region generally receives less than of rain, most of which generally falls in a period of three to five months of the year and occasionally less than this, creating long periods of drought. Brazil's 1877–78 \"Grande Seca\" (Great Drought), the worst in Brazil's history, caused approximately half a million deaths. A similarly devastating drought occurred in 1915.\n\nSouth of Bahia, near the coasts, and more southerly most of the state of São Paulo, the distribution of rainfall changes, with rain falling throughout the year. The south enjoys subtropical conditions, with cool winters and average annual temperatures not exceeding ; winter frosts and snowfall are not rare in the highest areas.\n\nBrazil's large territory comprises different ecosystems, such as the Amazon rainforest, recognized as having the greatest biological diversity in the world, with the Atlantic Forest and the Cerrado, sustaining the greatest biodiversity. In the south, the Araucaria pine forest grows under temperate conditions. The rich wildlife of Brazil reflects the variety of natural habitats. Scientists estimate that the total number of plant and animal species in Brazil could approach four million, mostly invertebrates.\n\nLarger mammals include carnivores pumas, jaguars, ocelots, rare bush dogs, and foxes, and herbivores peccaries, tapirs, anteaters, sloths, opossums, and armadillos. Deer are plentiful in the south, and many species of New World monkeys are found in the northern rain forests. Concern for the environment has grown in response to global interest in environmental issues. Brazil's Amazon Basin is home to an extremely diverse array of fish species, including the red-bellied piranha. Despite its reputation as a ferocious freshwater fish, the red-bellied piranha is actually a generally timid scavenger. \nBiodiversity can contribute to agriculture, livestock, forestry and fisheries extraction. However, almost all economically exploited species of plants, such as soybeans and coffee, or animals, such as chickens, are imported from other countries, and the economic use of native species still crawls. In the Brazilian GDP, the forest sector represents just over 1% and fishing 0.4%.\n\nThe natural heritage of Brazil is severely threatened by cattle ranching and agriculture, logging, mining, resettlement, oil and gas extraction, over-fishing, wildlife trade, dams and infrastructure, water pollution, climate change, fire, and invasive species. In many areas of the country, the natural environment is threatened by development. Construction of highways has opened up previously remote areas for agriculture and settlement; dams have flooded valleys and inundated wildlife habitats; and mines have scarred and polluted the landscape. At least 70 dams are said to be planned for the Amazon region, including the controversial Belo Monte hydroelectric dam.\n\nThe form of government is a democratic federative republic, with a presidential system. The president is both head of state and head of government of the Union and is elected for a four-year term, with the possibility of re-election for a second successive term. The current president is Michel Temer, who replaced Dilma Rousseff after her impeachment. The President appoints the Ministers of State, who assist in government. Legislative houses in each political entity are the main source of law in Brazil. The National Congress is the Federation's bicameral legislature, consisting of the Chamber of Deputies and the Federal Senate. Judiciary authorities exercise jurisdictional duties almost exclusively. Brazil is a democracy, according to the Democracy Index 2010.\n\nThe political-administrative organization of the Federative Republic of Brazil comprises the Union, the states, the Federal District, and the municipalities. The Union, the states, the Federal District, and the municipalities, are the \"spheres of government\". The federation is set on five fundamental principles: sovereignty, citizenship, dignity of human beings, the social values of labour and freedom of enterprise, and political pluralism. The classic tripartite branches of government (executive, legislative and judicial under a checks and balances system) are formally established by the Constitution. The executive and legislative are organized independently in all three spheres of government, while the judiciary is organized only at the federal and state and Federal District spheres.\nAll members of the executive and legislative branches are directly elected. Judges and other judicial officials are appointed after passing entry exams. For most of its democratic history, Brazil has had a multi-party system, proportional representation. Voting is compulsory for the literate between 18 and 70 years old and optional for illiterates and those between 16 and 18 or beyond 70.\n\nTogether with several smaller parties, four political parties stand out: Workers' Party (PT), Brazilian Social Democracy Party (PSDB), Brazilian Democratic Movement (MDB) and Democrats (DEM). Fifteen political parties are represented in Congress. It is common for politicians to switch parties, and thus the proportion of congressional seats held by particular parties changes regularly. Almost all governmental and administrative functions are exercised by authorities and agencies affiliated to the Executive.\n\nBrazilian law is based on the civil law legal system and civil law concepts prevail over common law practice. Most of Brazilian law is codified, although non-codified statutes also represent a substantial part, playing a complementary role. Court decisions set out interpretive guidelines; however, they are seldom binding on other specific cases. Doctrinal works and the works of academic jurists have strong influence in law creation and in law cases.\n\nThe legal system is based on the Federal Constitution, promulgated on 5 October 1988, and is the fundamental law of Brazil. All other legislation and court decisions must conform to its rules. , there have been 53 amendments. States have their own constitutions, which must not contradict the Federal Constitution. Municipalities and the Federal District have \"organic laws\" (), which act in a similar way to constitutions. Legislative entities are the main source of statutes, although in certain matters judiciary and executive bodies may enact legal norms. Jurisdiction is administered by the judiciary entities, although in rare situations the Federal Constitution allows the Federal Senate to pass on legal judgments. There are also specialized military, labor, and electoral courts. The highest court is the Supreme Federal Court.\n\nThis system has been criticized over the last few decades for the slow pace of decision-making. Lawsuits on appeal may take several years to resolve, and in some cases more than a decade elapses before definitive rulings. Nevertheless, the Supreme Federal Tribunal was the first court in the world to transmit its sessions on television, and also via YouTube. More recently, in December 2009, the Supreme Court adopted Twitter to display items on the day planner of the ministers, to inform the daily actions of the Court and the most important decisions made by them.\n\nThe armed forces of Brazil are the largest in Latin America by active personnel and the largest in terms of military equipment. It consists of the Brazilian Army (including the Army Aviation Command), the Brazilian Navy (including the Marine Corps and Naval Aviation), and the Brazilian Air Force. Brazil's conscription policy gives it one of the world's largest military forces, estimated at more than 1.6 million reservists annually.\n\nNumbering close to 236,000 active personnel, the Brazilian Army has the largest number of armored vehicles in South America, including armored transports and tanks. It is also unique in Latin America for its large, elite forces specializing in unconventional missions, the Brazilian Special Operations Command, and the versatile Strategic Rapid Action Force, made up of highly mobilized and prepared Special Operations Brigade, Infantry Brigade Parachutist, 1st Jungle Infantry Battalion (Airmobile) and 12th Brigade Light Infantry (Airmobile) able to act anywhere in the country, on short notice, to counter external aggression. The states' Military Police and the Military Firefighters Corps are described as an ancillary forces of the Army by the constitution, but are under the control of each state's governor.\n\nBrazil's navy, the second-largest in the Americas, once operated some of the most powerful warships in the world with the two dreadnoughts, which sparked a South American dreadnought race between Argentina, Brazil, and Chile. Today, it is a green water force and has a group of specialized elite in retaking ships and naval facilities, GRUMEC, unit specially trained to protect Brazilian oil platforms along its coast. It's the only navy in Latin America that operates an aircraft carrier, NAe São Paulo, and one of the ten navies of the world to operate one.\n\nThe Air Force is the largest in Latin America and has about 700 manned aircraft in service and effective about 67,000 personnel.\n\nBrazil has not been invaded since 1865 during the Paraguayan War. Additionally, Brazil has no contested territorial disputes with any of its neighbours and neither does it have rivalries, like Chile and Bolivia have with each other. The Brazilian military has also three times intervened militarily to overthrow the Brazilian government. It has built a tradition of participating in UN peacekeeping missions such as in Haiti, East Timor and Central African Republic.\n\nBrazil's international relations are based on Article 4 of the Federal Constitution, which establishes non-intervention, self-determination, international cooperation and the peaceful settlement of conflicts as the guiding principles of Brazil's relationship with other countries and multilateral organizations.\n\nAccording to the Constitution, the President has ultimate authority over foreign policy, while the Congress is tasked with reviewing and considering all diplomatic nominations and international treaties, as well as legislation relating to Brazilian foreign policy.\n\nBrazil's foreign policy is a by-product of the country's unique position as a regional power in Latin America, a leader among developing countries, and an emerging world power. Brazilian foreign policy has generally been based on the principles of multilateralism, peaceful dispute settlement, and non-intervention in the affairs of other countries.\n\nAn increasingly well-developed tool of Brazil's foreign policy is providing aid as a donor to other developing countries. Brazil does not just use its growing economic strength to provide financial aid, but it also provides high levels of expertise and most importantly of all, a quiet non-confrontational diplomacy to improve governance levels. Total aid is estimated to be around $1 billion per year that includes:\n\n\nIn addition, Brazil manages a peacekeeping mission in Haiti ($350 million) and makes in-kind contributions to the World Food Programme ($300 million). This is in addition to humanitarian assistance and contributions to multilateral development agencies. The scale of this aid places it on par with China and India. The Brazilian South-South aid has been described as a \"global model in waiting.\"\n\nIn Brazil, the Constitution establishes five different police agencies for law enforcement: Federal Police Department, Federal Highway Police, Federal Railroad Police, Military Police and Civil Police. Of these, the first three are affiliated with federal authorities and the last two are subordinate to state governments. All police forces are the responsibility of the executive branch of any of the federal or state powers. The National Public Security Force also can act in public disorder situations arising anywhere in the country.\n\nThe country still has above-average levels of violent crime and particularly high levels of gun violence and homicide. In 2012, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated the number of 32 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, one of the highest rates of homicide of the world. The number considered tolerable by the WHO is about 10 homicides per 100,000 inhabitants. However, there are differences between the crime rates in the Brazilian states. While in São Paulo the homicide rate registered in 2013 was 10.8 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, in Alagoas it was 64.7 homicides per 100,000 inhabitants.\n\nBrazil also has high levels of incarceration and the third largest prison population in the world (behind only China and the United States), with an estimated total of approximately 700,000 prisoners around the country (June 2014), an increase of about 300% compared to the index registered in 1992. The high number of prisoners eventually overloaded the Brazilian prison system, leading to a shortfall of about two hundred thousand accommodations.\n\nBrazil is a federation composed of 26 states, one federal district, and the 5570 municipalities. States have autonomous administrations, collect their own taxes and receive a share of taxes collected by the Federal government. They have a governor and a unicameral legislative body elected directly by their voters. They also have independent Courts of Law for common justice. Despite this, states have much less autonomy to create their own laws than in the United States. For example, criminal and civil laws can be voted by only the federal bicameral Congress and are uniform throughout the country.\nThe states and the federal district may be grouped into regions: Northern, Northeast, Central-West, Southeast and Southern. The Brazilian regions are merely geographical, not political or administrative divisions, and they do not have any specific form of government. Although defined by law, Brazilian regions are useful mainly for statistical purposes, and also to define the distribution of federal funds in development projects.\n\nMunicipalities, as the states, have autonomous administrations, collect their own taxes and receive a share of taxes collected by the Union and state government. Each has a mayor and an elected legislative body, but no separate Court of Law. Indeed, a Court of Law organized by the state can encompass many municipalities in a single justice administrative division called \"comarca\" (county).\n\nBrazil is the largest national economy in Latin America, the world's eighth largest economy and the eighth largest in purchasing power parity (PPP) according to the 2017 estimates. Brazil has a mixed economy with abundant natural resources. After rapid growth in preceding decades, the country entered an ongoing recession in 2014 amid a political corruption scandal and nationwide protests.\n\nIts GDP (PPP) per capita was $15,919 in 2017 putting Brazil in the 77th position according to IMF data. Active in agricultural, mining, manufacturing and service sectors Brazil has a labor force of over a 107 million (ranking 6th worldwide) and unemployment of 6.2% (ranking 64th worldwide).\n\nThe country has been expanding its presence in international financial and commodities markets, and is one of a group of four emerging economies called the BRIC countries. Brazil has been the world's largest producer of coffee for the last 150 years.\nBrazil's diversified economy includes agriculture, industry, and a wide range of services. Agriculture and allied sectors like forestry, logging and fishing accounted for 5.1% of the gross domestic product in 2007. Brazil is one of the largest producer of oranges, coffee, sugar cane, cassava and sisal, soybeans and papayas.\n\nThe industry – from automobiles, steel and petrochemicals to computers, aircraft and consumer durables – accounted for 30.8% of the gross domestic product. Industry is highly concentrated in metropolitan São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Campinas, Porto Alegre, and Belo Horizonte. Brazil has become the fourth largest car market in the world. Major export products include aircraft, electrical equipment, automobiles, ethanol, textiles, footwear, iron ore, steel, coffee, orange juice, soybeans and corned beef. In total, Brazil ranks 23rd worldwide in value of exports.\n\nBrazil pegged its currency, the real, to the U.S. dollar in 1994. However, after the East Asian financial crisis, the Russian default in 1998 and the series of adverse financial events that followed it, the Central Bank of Brazil temporarily changed its monetary policy to a managed-float scheme while undergoing a currency crisis, until definitively changing the exchange regime to free-float in January 1999.\n\nBrazil received an International Monetary Fund rescue package in mid-2002 of $30.4 billion, then a record sum. Brazil's central bank paid back the IMF loan in 2005, although it was not due to be repaid until 2006. One of the issues the Central Bank of Brazil recently dealt with was an excess of speculative short-term capital inflows to the country, which may have contributed to a fall in the value of the U.S. dollar against the real during that period. Nonetheless, foreign direct investment (FDI), related to long-term, less speculative investment in production, is estimated to be $193.8 billion for 2007. Inflation monitoring and control currently plays a major part in the Central bank's role of setting out short-term interest rates as a monetary policy measure.\n\nBetween 1993 and 2010, 7012 mergers & acquisitions with a total known value of $707 billion with the involvement of Brazilian firms have been announced. The year 2010 was a new record in terms of value with 115 billion USD of transactions. The largest transaction with involvement of Brazilian companies has been: Cia. Vale do Rio Doce acquired Inco in a tender offer valued at US$18.9 billion.\n\nCorruption costs Brazil almost $41 billion a year alone in 2010, with 69.9% of the country's firms identifying the issue as a major constraint in successfully penetrating the global market. Local government corruption is so prevalent that voters perceive it as a problem only if it surpasses certain levels, and only if a local media e.g. a radio station is present to divulge the findings of corruption charges. Initiatives, like this exposure, strengthen awareness which is indicated by the Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index; ranking Brazil 69th out of 178 countries in 2012.\nThe purchasing power in Brazil is eroded by the so-called Brazil cost.\n\nBrazil is the world's tenth largest energy consumer with much of its energy coming from renewable sources, particularly hydroelectricity and ethanol; the Itaipu Dam is the world's largest hydroelectric plant by energy generation. The first car with an ethanol engine was produced in 1978 and the first airplane engine running on ethanol in 2005.\n\nRecent oil discoveries in the Pre-salt layer have opened the door for a large increase in oil production. The governmental agencies responsible for the energy policy are the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the National Council for Energy Policy, the National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels, and the National Agency of Electricity.\nTourism in Brazil is a growing sector and key to the economy of several regions of the country. The country had 6.36 million visitors in 2015, ranking in terms of the international tourist arrivals as the main destination in South America and second in Latin America after Mexico. Revenues from international tourists reached billion in 2010, showing a recovery from the 2008–2009 economic crisis. Historical records of 5.4 million visitors and billion in receipts were reached in 2011.\n\nNatural areas are its most popular tourism product, a combination of ecotourism with leisure and recreation, mainly sun and beach, and adventure travel, as well as cultural tourism. Among the most popular destinations are the Amazon Rainforest, beaches and dunes in the Northeast Region, the Pantanal in the Center-West Region, beaches at Rio de Janeiro and Santa Catarina, cultural tourism in Minas Gerais and business trips to São Paulo city.\n\nIn terms of the 2015 Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index (TTCI), which is a measurement of the factors that make it attractive to develop business in the travel and tourism industry of individual countries, Brazil ranked in the 28st place at the world's level, third in the Americas, after Canada and United States.\n\nBrazil's main competitive advantages are its natural resources, which ranked 1st on this criteria out of all countries considered, and ranked 23rd for its cultural resources, due to its many World Heritage sites. The TTCI report notes Brazil's main weaknesses: its ground transport infrastructure remains underdeveloped (ranked 116th), with the quality of roads ranking in 105th place; and the country continues to suffer from a lack of price competitiveness (ranked 114th), due in part to high ticket taxes and airport charges, as well as high prices and high taxation. Safety and security have improved significantly: 75th in 2011, up from 128th in 2008.\n\nAccording to the World Tourism Organization (WTO), international travel to Brazil accelerated in 2000, particularly during 2004 and 2005. However, in 2006 a slow-down took place, and international arrivals had almost no growth in 2007–08.\n\nIn spite of this trend, revenues from international tourism continued to rise, from USD 4 billion in 2005 to 5 billion in 2007, despite 330 000 fewer arrivals. This favorable trend is the result of the strong devaluation of the US dollar against the Brazilian Real, which began in 2004, but which makes Brazil a more expensive international destination. \nThis trend changed in 2009, when both visitors and revenues fell as a result of the Great Recession of 2008–09. By 2010, the industry had recovered, and arrivals grew above 2006 levels to 5.2 million international visitors, and receipts from these visitors reached USD 6 billion. In 2011 the historical record was reached with 5.4 million visitors and billion in receipts.\n\nDespite continuing record-breaking international tourism revenues, the number of Brazilian tourists travelling overseas has been growing steadily since 2003, resulting in a net negative foreign exchange balance, as more money is spent abroad by Brazilians than comes in as receipts from international tourists visiting Brazil.\n\nTourism expenditures abroad grew from USD 5.8 billion in 2006, to USD 8.2 billion in 2007, a 42% increase, representing a net deficit of USD 3.3 billion in 2007, as compared to USD 1.5 billion in 2006, a 125% increase from the previous year. This trend is caused by Brazilians taking advantage of the stronger Real to travel and making relatively cheaper expenditures abroad. Brazilians traveling overseas in 2006 represented 4% of the country's population.\n\nIn 2005, tourism contributed with 3.2% of the country's revenues from exports of goods and services, and represented 7% of direct and indirect employment in the Brazilian economy. In 2006 direct employment in the sector reached 1.9 million people.\n\nDomestic tourism is a fundamental market segment for the industry, as 51 million people traveled throughout the country in 2005, and direct revenues from Brazilian tourists reached USD 22 billion, 5.6 times more receipts than international tourists in 2005.\n\nIn 2005, Rio de Janeiro, Foz do Iguaçu, São Paulo, Florianópolis and Salvador were the most visited cities by international tourists for leisure trips. The most popular destinations for business trips were São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Porto Alegre. In 2006 Rio de Janeiro and Fortaleza were the most popular destinations for business trips.\n\nTechnological research in Brazil is largely carried out in public universities and research institutes, with the majority of funding for basic research coming from various government agencies. Brazil's most esteemed technological hubs are the Oswaldo Cruz Institute, the Butantan Institute, the Air Force's Aerospace Technical Center, the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation and the INPE. \n\nThe Brazilian Space Agency has the most advanced space program in Latin America, with significant resources to launch vehicles, and manufacture of satellite. Owner of relative technological sophistication, the country develops submarines, aircraft, as well as being involved in space research, having a Vehicle Launch Center Light and being the only country in the Southern Hemisphere the integrate team building International Space Station (ISS).\n\nThe country is also a pioneer in the search for oil in deep water, from where it extracts 73% of its reserves.\nUranium is enriched at the Resende Nuclear Fuel Factory, mostly for research purposes (as Brazil obtains 88% from its electricity from hydroelectricity) and the country's first nuclear submarine was delivered in 2015 (by France). \n\nBrazil is one of the three countries in Latin America with an operational Synchrotron Laboratory, a research facility on physics, chemistry, material science and life sciences, and Brazil is the only Latin American country to have a semiconductor company with its own fabrication plant, the CEITEC. According to the Global Information Technology Report 2009-2010 of the World Economic Forum, Brazil is the world's 61st largest developer of information technology.\n\nBrazil also has a large number of outstanding scientific personalities. Among the most renowned Brazilian inventors are priests Bartolomeu de Gusmão, Landell de Moura and Francisco João de Azevedo, besides Alberto Santos-Dumont, Evaristo Conrado Engelberg, Manuel Dias de Abreu, Andreas Pavel and Nélio José Nicolai. \n\nBrazilian science is represented by the likes of César Lattes (Brazilian physicist Pathfinder of \"Pi Meson\"), Mário Schenberg (considered the greatest theoretical physicist of Brazil), José Leite Lopes (only Brazilian physicist holder of \"UNESCO Science Prize\"), Artur Ávila (the first Latin American winner of Fields Medal) and Fritz Müller (pioneer in factual support of the theory of evolution by Charles Darwin).\nBrazilian roads are the primary carriers of freight and passenger traffic. The road system totaled 1.98 million km (1.23 million mi) in 2002. The total of paved roads increased from (22,056 mi) in 1967 to (114,425 mi) in 2002.\n\nThe first investments in road infrastructure have given up in the 1920s, the government of Washington Luis, being pursued in the governments of Getúlio Vargas and Eurico Gaspar Dutra. President Juscelino Kubitschek (1956–61), who designed and built the capital Brasília, was another supporter of highways. Kubitschek was responsible for the installation of major car manufacturers in the country (Volkswagen, Ford and General Motors arrived in Brazil during his rule) and one of the points used to attract them was support for the construction of highways. With the implementation of Fiat in 1976 ending an automobile market closed loop, from the end of the 1990s the country has received large foreign direct investments installing in its territory other major car manufacturers and utilities, such as Iveco, Renault, Peugeot, Citroen, Honda, Mitsubishi, Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Hyundai, Toyota among others. Brazil is the seventh most important country in the auto industry.\n\nBrazil's railway system has been declining since 1945, when emphasis shifted to highway construction. The total length of railway track was in 2002, as compared with in 1970. Most of the railway system belonged to the Federal Railroad Corporation RFFSA, which was privatized in 2007. The São Paulo Metro was the first underground transit system in Brazil. The other metro systems are in Rio de Janeiro, Porto Alegre, Recife, Belo Horizonte, Brasília, Teresina and Fortaleza.\n\nThe country has an extensive rail network of in length, the tenth largest network in the world. Currently, the Brazilian government, unlike the past, seeks to encourage this mode of transport; an example of this incentive is the project of the Rio–São Paulo high-speed rail, that will connect the two main cities of the country to carry passengers.\n\nThere are about 2,500 airports in Brazil, including landing fields: the second largest number in the world, after the United States. São Paulo–Guarulhos International Airport, near São Paulo, is the largest and busiest airport with nearly 20 million passengers annually, while handling the vast majority of commercial traffic for the country.\n\nFor freight transport waterways are of importance, e.g. the industrial zones of Manaus can be reached only by means of the Solimões–Amazonas waterway ( with minimum depth). The country also has of waterways.\n\nCoastal shipping links widely separated parts of the country. Bolivia and Paraguay have been given free ports at Santos. Of the 36 deep-water ports, Santos, Itajaí, Rio Grande, Paranaguá, Rio de Janeiro, Sepetiba, Vitória, Suape, Manaus and São Francisco do Sul are the most important. Bulk carriers have to wait up to 18 days before being serviced, container ships 36,3 hours on average.\n\nThe Brazilian public health system, the Unified Health System (SUS), is managed and provided by all levels of government, being the largest system of this type in the world. On the other hand, private healthcare systems play a complementary role. Public health services are universal and offered to all citizens of the country for free. However, the construction and maintenance of health centers and hospitals are financed by taxes, and the country spends about 9% of its GDP on expenditures in the area. In 2012, Brazil had 1.85 doctors and 2.3 hospital beds for every 1,000 inhabitants.\n\nDespite all the progress made since the creation of the universal health care system in 1988, there are still several public health problems in Brazil. In 2006, the main points to be solved were the high infant (2.51%) and maternal mortality rates (73.1 deaths per 1000 births). The number of deaths from noncommunicable diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases (151.7 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants) and cancer (72.7 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants), also has a considerable impact on the health of the Brazilian population. Finally, external but preventable factors such as car accidents, violence and suicide caused 14.9% of all deaths in the country. The Brazilian health system was ranked 125th among the 191 countries evaluated by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2000.\n\nThe Federal Constitution and the Law of Guidelines and Bases of National Education determine that the Union, the states, the Federal District, and the municipalities must manage and organize their respective education systems. Each of these public educational systems is responsible for its own maintenance, which manages funds as well as the mechanisms and funding sources. The constitution reserves 25% of the state budget and 18% of federal taxes and municipal taxes for education.\n\nAccording to the IBGE, in 2011, the literacy rate of the population was 90.4%, meaning that 13 million (9.6% of population) people are still illiterate in the country; functional illiteracy has reached 21.6% of the population. Illiteracy is highest in the Northeast, where 19.9% of the population is illiterate.\n\nHigher education starts with undergraduate or sequential courses, which may offer different options of specialization in academic or professional careers. Depending on the choice, students can improve their educational background with courses of post-graduate studies or broad sense.\n\nAttending an institution of higher education is required by Law of Guidelines and Bases of Education. Kindergarten, elementary and medium educations are required of all students, provided the student does not hold any disability, whether physical, mental, visual or hearing.\n\nThe University of São Paulo is the second best university in Latin America, according to recent 2019 QS World University Rankings. Of the top 20 Latin Americans universities, eight are Brazilian. Most of them are public.\n\nThe Brazilian press had its beginnings in 1808 with the arrival of the Portuguese royal family to Brazil, hitherto forbidden any activity of the press – was the publication of newspapers or books. The Brazilian press was officially born in Rio de Janeiro on 13 May 1808, with the creation of the Royal Printing, National Press by the Prince Regent Dom João.\n\nThe \"Gazeta do Rio de Janeiro\", the first newspaper published in the country, began to circulate on 10 September 1808. The largest newspapers nowadays are \"Folha de S.Paulo\" (from the state of São Paulo), \"Super Notícia\" (Minas Gerais 296.799), \"O Globo\" (RJ 277.876) and \"O Estado de S. Paulo\" (SP 235.217).\n\nRadio broadcasting began on 7 September 1922, with a speech by then President Pessoa, and was formalized on 20 April 1923 with the creation of \"Radio Society of Rio de Janeiro.\"\n\nTelevision in Brazil began officially on 18 September 1950, with the founding of TV Tupi by Assis Chateaubriand. Since then television has grown in the country, creating large public networks such as Globo, SBT, Record and Bandeirantes. Today it is the most important factor in popular culture of Brazilian society, indicated by research showing that as much as 67% of the general population follow the same daily soap opera broadcast. Digital Television, using the SBTVD standard (based on the Japanese standard ISDB-T), was adopted 29 June 2006 and launched on 2 November 2007. In May 2010, Brazil launched TV Brasil Internacional, an international television station, initially broadcasting to 49 countries.\n\nThe population of Brazil, as recorded by the 2008 PNAD, was approximately 190 million (), with a ratio of men to women of 0.95:1 and 83.75% of the population defined as urban. The population is heavily concentrated in the Southeastern (79.8 million inhabitants) and Northeastern (53.5 million inhabitants) regions, while the two most extensive regions, the Center-West and the North, which together make up 64.12% of the Brazilian territory, have a total of only 29.1 million inhabitants.\n\nThe first census in Brazil was carried out in 1872 and recorded a population of 9,930,478. From 1880 to 1930, 4 million Europeans arrived. Brazil's population increased significantly between 1940 and 1970, because of a decline in the mortality rate, even though the birth rate underwent a slight decline. In the 1940s the annual population growth rate was 2.4%, rising to 3.0% in the 1950s and remaining at 2.9% in the 1960s, as life expectancy rose from 44 to 54 years and to 72.6 years in 2007.\nIt has been steadily falling since the 1960s, from 3.04% per year between 1950 and 1960 to 1.05% in 2008 and is expected to fall to a negative value of –0.29% by 2050 thus completing the demographic transition.\n\nIn 2008, the illiteracy rate was 11.48% and among the youth (ages 15–19) 1.74%. It was highest (20.30%) in the Northeast, which had a large proportion of rural poor. Illiteracy was high (24.18%) among the rural population and lower (9.05%) among the urban population.\n\nAccording to the National Research by Household Sample (PNAD) of 2008, 48.43% of the population (about 92 million) described themselves as White; 43.80% (about 83 million) as Pardo (brown), 6.84% (about 13 million) as Black; 0.58% (about 1.1 million) as Asian; and 0.28% (about 536 thousand) as Amerindian (officially called \"indígena\", Indigenous), while 0.07% (about 130 thousand) did not declare their race.\n\nIn 2007, the National Indian Foundation estimated that Brazil has 67 different uncontacted tribes, up from their estimate of 40 in 2005. Brazil is believed to have the largest number of uncontacted peoples in the world.\n\nSince the arrival of the Portuguese in 1500, considerable miscegenation between Amerindians, Europeans, and Africans has taken place in all regions of the country (with European ancestry being dominant nationwide according to the vast majority of all autosomal studies undertaken covering the entire population, accounting for between 65% to 77%).\nBrazilian society is more markedly divided by social class lines, although a high income disparity is found between race groups, so racism and classism can be conflated. Socially significant closeness to one racial group is taken in account more in the basis of appearance (phenotypes) rather than ancestry, to the extent that full siblings can pertain to different \"racial\" groups. Socioeconomic factors are also significant, because a minority of \"pardos\" are likely to start declaring themselves White or Black if socially upward. Skin color and facial features do not line quite well with ancestry (usually, Afro-Brazilians are evenly mixed and European ancestry is dominant in Whites and \"pardos\" with a significant non-European contribution, but the individual variation is great).\n\nThe brown population (officially called \"pardo\" in Portuguese, also colloquially \"moreno\") is a broad category that includes \"caboclos\" (assimilated Amerindians in general, and descendants of Whites and Natives), \"mulatos\" (descendants of primarily Whites and Afro-Brazilians) and \"cafuzos\" (descendants of Afro-Brazilians and Natives). People of considerable Amerindian ancestry form the majority of the population in the Northern, Northeastern and Center-Western regions.\n\nHigher percents of Blacks, mulattoes and tri-racials can be found in the eastern coast of the Northeastern region from Bahia to Paraíba and also in northern Maranhão, southern Minas Gerais and in eastern Rio de Janeiro. From the 19th century, Brazil opened its borders to immigration. About five million people from over 60 countries migrated to Brazil between 1808 and 1972, most of them of Portuguese, Italian, Spanish, German, Ukrainian, Polish, Jewish, Russian, Chinese, Japanese, and Arab origin.\n\nReligion in Brazil was formed from the meeting of the Catholic Church with the religious traditions of enslaved African peoples and indigenous peoples. This confluence of faiths during the Portuguese colonization of Brazil led to the development of a diverse array of syncretistic practices within the overarching umbrella of Brazilian Catholic Church, characterized by traditional Portuguese festivities, and in some instances, Allan Kardec's Spiritism (a religion which incorporates elements of spiritualism and Christianity). Religious pluralism increased during the 20th century, and the Protestant community has grown to include over 22% of the population. The most common Protestant denominations are Pentecostal and Evangelical ones. Other Protestant branches with a notable presence in the country include the Baptists, Seventh-day Adventists, Lutherans and the Reformed tradition.\n\nRoman Catholicism is the country's predominant faith. Brazil has the world's largest Catholic population. According to the 2000 Demographic Census (the PNAD survey does not inquire about religion), 73.57% of the population followed Roman Catholicism; 15.41% Protestantism; 1.33% Kardecist spiritism; 1.22% other Christian denominations; 0.31% Afro-Brazilian religions; 0.13% Buddhism; 0.05% Judaism; 0.02% Islam; 0.01% Amerindian religions; 0.59% other religions, undeclared or undetermined; while 7.35% have no religion.\n\nHowever, in the last ten years Protestantism, particularly in forms of Pentecostalism and Evangelicalism, has spread in Brazil, while the proportion of Catholics has dropped significantly. After Protestantism, individuals professing no religion are also a significant group, exceeding 7% of the population as of the 2000 census. The cities of Boa Vista, Salvador, and Porto Velho have the greatest proportion of Irreligious residents in Brazil. Teresina, Fortaleza, and Florianópolis were the most Roman Catholic in the country. Greater Rio de Janeiro, not including the city proper, is the most irreligious and least Roman Catholic Brazilian periphery, while Greater Porto Alegre and Greater Fortaleza are on the opposite sides of the lists, respectively.\n\nAccording to IBGE (Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics) urban areas already concentrate 84.35% of the population, while the Southeast region remains the most populated one, with over 80 million inhabitants.\nThe largest urban agglomerations in Brazil are São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Belo Horizonte – all in the Southeastern Region – with 21.1, 12.3, and 5.1 million inhabitants respectively. The majority of state capitals are the largest cities in their states, except for Vitória, the capital of Espírito Santo, and Florianópolis, the capital of Santa Catarina.\n\nThe official language of Brazil is Portuguese (Article 13 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Brazil), which almost all of the population speaks and is virtually the only language used in newspapers, radio, television, and for business and administrative purposes. Brazil is the only Portuguese-speaking nation in the Americas, making the language an important part of Brazilian national identity and giving it a national culture distinct from those of its Spanish-speaking neighbors.\n\nBrazilian Portuguese has had its own development, mostly similar to 16th-century Central and Southern dialects of European Portuguese (despite a very substantial number of Portuguese colonial settlers, and more recent immigrants, coming from Northern regions, and in minor degree Portuguese Macaronesia), with a few influences from the Amerindian and African languages, especially West African and Bantu restricted to the vocabulary only. As a result, the language is somewhat different, mostly in phonology, from the language of Portugal and other Portuguese-speaking countries (the dialects of the other countries, partly because of the more recent end of Portuguese colonialism in these regions, have a closer connection to contemporary European Portuguese). These differences are comparable to those between American and British English.\n\nIn 1990, the Community of Portuguese Language Countries (CPLP), which included representatives from all countries with Portuguese as the official language, reached an agreement on the reform of the Portuguese orthography to unify the two standards then in use by Brazil on one side and the remaining lusophone countries on the other. This spelling reform went into effect in Brazil on 1 January 2009. In Portugal, the reform was signed into law by the President on 21 July 2008 allowing for a 6-year adaptation period, during which both orthographies will co-exist. The remaining CPLP countries are free to establish their own transition timetables.\n\nThe sign language law legally recognized in 2002, (the law was regulated in 2005) the use of the Brazilian Sign Language, more commonly known by its Portuguese acronym LIBRAS, in education and government services. The language must be taught as a part of the education and speech and language pathology curricula. LIBRAS teachers, instructors and translators are recognized professionals. Schools and health services must provide access (\"inclusion\") to deaf people.\n\nMinority languages are spoken throughout the nation. One hundred and eighty Amerindian languages are spoken in remote areas and a significant number of other languages are spoken by immigrants and their descendants. In the municipality of São Gabriel da Cachoeira, Nheengatu (a currently endangered South American creole language – or an 'anti-creole', according to some linguists – with mostly Indigenous Brazilian languages lexicon and Portuguese-based grammar that, together with its southern relative língua geral paulista, once was a major lingua franca in Brazil, being replaced by Portuguese only after governmental prohibition led by major political changes), Baniwa and Tucano languages had been granted co-official status with Portuguese.\n\nThere are significant communities of German (mostly the Brazilian Hunsrückisch, a High German language dialect) and Italian (mostly the Talian, a Venetian dialect) origins in the Southern and Southeastern regions, whose ancestors' native languages were carried along to Brazil, and which, still alive there, are influenced by the Portuguese language. Talian is officially a historic patrimony of Rio Grande do Sul, and two German dialects possess co-official status in a few municipalities.\n\nLearning at least one second language (generally English or Spanish) is mandatory for all the 12 grades of the mandatory education system (primary and secondary education, there called \"ensino fundamental\" and \"ensino médio\" respectively). Brazil is the first country in South America to offer Esperanto to secondary students.\n\nThe core culture of Brazil is derived from Portuguese culture, because of its strong colonial ties with the Portuguese Empire. Among other influences, the Portuguese introduced the Portuguese language, Roman Catholicism and colonial architectural styles. The culture was, however, also strongly influenced by African, indigenous and non-Portuguese European cultures and traditions.\nSome aspects of Brazilian culture were influenced by the contributions of Italian, German and other European as well Japanese, Jewish and Arab immigrants who arrived in large numbers in the South and Southeast of Brazil during the 19th and 20th centuries. The indigenous Amerindians influenced Brazil's language and cuisine; and the Africans influenced language, cuisine, music, dance and religion.\n\nBrazilian art has developed since the 16th century into different styles that range from Baroque (the dominant style in Brazil until the early 19th century) to Romanticism, Modernism, Expressionism, Cubism, Surrealism and Abstractionism. Brazilian cinema dates back to the birth of the medium in the late 19th century and has gained a new level of international acclaim since the 1960s.\n\nThe architecture of Brazil is influenced by Europe, especially Portugal. It has a history that goes back 500 years to the time when Pedro Cabral discovered Brazil in 1500. Portuguese colonial architecture was the first wave of architecture to go to Brazil. It is the basis for all Brazilian architecture of later centuries. In the 19th century during the time of the Empire of Brazil, Brazil followed European trends and adopted Neoclassical and Gothic Revival architecture. Then in the 20th century especially in Brasilia, Brazil experimented with Modernist architecture.\n\nThe colonial architecture of Brazil dates to the early 16th century when Brazil was first explored, conquered and settled by the Portuguese. The Portuguese built architecture familiar to them in Europe in their aim to colonise Brazil. They built Portuguese colonial architecture which included Churches, civic architecture including houses and forts in Brazilian cities and the countryside. During 19th Century Brazilian architecture saw the introduction of more European styles to Brazil such as Neoclassical and Gothic Revival architecture. This was usually mixed with Brazilian influences from their own heritage which produced a unique form of Brazilian architecture. In the 1950s the modernist architecture was introduced when Brasilia was built as new federal capital in the interior of Brazil to help develop the interior. The architect Oscar Niemeyer idealized and built Government buildings, Churches and civic buildings was constructed in the modernist style.\n\nThe music of Brazil was formed mainly from the fusion of European and African elements. Until the nineteenth century, Portugal was the gateway to most of the influences that built Brazilian music, although many of these elements were not of Portuguese origin, but generally European. The first was José Maurício Nunes Garcia, author of sacred pieces with influence of Viennese classicism. The major contribution of the African element was the rhythmic diversity and some dances and instruments that had a bigger role in the development of popular music and folk, flourishing especially in the twentieth century.\n\nPopular music since the late eighteenth century began to show signs of forming a characteristically Brazilian sound, with samba considered the most typical and on the UNESCO cultural heritage list. Maracatu and Afoxê are two Afro-Brazilian music traditions that have been popularized by their appearance in the annual Brazilian Carnivals. The sport of capoeira is usually played with its own music referred to as capoeira music, which is usually considered to be a call-and-response type of folk music. Forró is a type of folk music prominent during the Festa Junina in northeastern Brazil. Jack A. Draper III, a professor of Portuguese at the University of Missouri, argues that Forró was used as a way to subdue feelings of nostalgia for a rural lifestyle.\n\nChoro is a very popular music instrumental style. Its origins are in 19th-century Rio de Janeiro. In spite of the name, the style often has a fast and happy rhythm, characterized by virtuosity, improvisation, subtle modulations and full of syncopation and counterpoint. Bossa nova is also a well-known style of Brazilian music developed and popularized in the 1950s and 1960s. The phrase \"bossa nova\" means literally \"new trend\". A lyrical fusion of samba and jazz, bossa nova acquired a large following starting in the 1960s.\nBrazilian literature dates back to the 16th century, to the writings of the first Portuguese explorers in Brazil, such as Pêro Vaz de Caminha, filled with descriptions of fauna, flora and commentary about the indigenous population that fascinated European readers.\n\nBrazil produced significant works in Romanticism – novelists like Joaquim Manuel de Macedo and José de Alencar wrote novels about love and pain. Alencar, in his long career, also treated indigenous people as heroes in the Indigenist novels \"O Guarani\", \"Iracema\" and \"Ubirajara\". Machado de Assis, one of his contemporaries, wrote in virtually all genres and continues to gain international prestige from critics worldwide.\n\nBrazilian Modernism, evidenced by the Week of Modern Art in 1922, was concerned with a nationalist avant-garde literature, while Post-Modernism brought a generation of distinct poets like João Cabral de Melo Neto, Carlos Drummond de Andrade, Vinicius de Moraes, Cora Coralina, Graciliano Ramos, Cecília Meireles, and internationally known writers dealing with universal and regional subjects like Jorge Amado, João Guimarães Rosa, Clarice Lispector and Manuel Bandeira.\n\nBrazilian cuisine varies greatly by region, reflecting the country's varying mix of indigenous and immigrant populations. This has created a national cuisine marked by the preservation of regional differences. Examples are Feijoada, considered the country's national dish; and regional foods such as beiju, feijão tropeiro, vatapá, moqueca, polenta (from Italian cuisine) and acarajé (from African cuisine).\n\nThe national beverage is coffee and cachaça is Brazil's native liquor. Cachaça is distilled from sugar cane and is the main ingredient in the national cocktail, Caipirinha.\n\nA typical meal consists mostly of rice and beans with beef, salad, french fries and a fried egg. Often, it's mixed with cassava flour (farofa). Fried potatoes, fried cassava, fried banana, fried meat and fried cheese are very often eaten in lunch and served in most typical restaurants. Popular snacks are pastel (a fried pastry); coxinha (a variation of chicken croquete); pão de queijo (cheese bread and cassava flour / tapioca); pamonha (corn and milk paste); esfirra (a variation of Lebanese pastry); kibbeh (from Arabic cuisine); empanada (pastry) and empada, little salt pies filled with shrimps or heart of palm.\n\nBrazil has a variety of desserts such as brigadeiros (chocolate fudge balls), bolo de rolo (roll cake with goiabada), cocada (a coconut sweet), beijinhos (coconut truffles and clove) and romeu e julieta (cheese with goiabada). Peanuts are used to make paçoca, rapadura and pé-de-moleque. Local common fruits like açaí, cupuaçu, mango, papaya, cocoa, cashew, guava, orange, lime, passionfruit, pineapple, and hog plum are turned in juices and used to make chocolates, ice pops and ice cream.\n\nThe Brazilian film industry began in the late 19th century, during the early days of the Belle Époque. While there were national film productions during the early 20th century, American films such as \"Rio the Magnificent\" were made in Rio de Janeiro to promote tourism in the city. The films \"Limite\" (1931) and \"Ganga Bruta\" (1933), the latter being produced by Adhemar Gonzaga through the prolific studio Cinédia, were poorly received at release and failed at the box office, but are acclaimed nowadays and placed among the finest Brazilian films of all time. The 1941 unfinished film \"It's All True\" was divided in four segments, two of which were filmed in Brazil and directed by Orson Welles; it was originally produced as part of the United States' Good Neighbor Policy during Getúlio Vargas' Estado Novo government.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the Cinema Novo movement rose to prominence with directors such as Glauber Rocha, Nelson Pereira dos Santos, Paulo Cesar Saraceni and Arnaldo Jabor. Rocha's films \"Deus e o Diabo na Terra do Sol\" (1964) and \"Terra em Transe\" (1967) are considered to be some of the greatest and most influential in Brazilian film history.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Brazil saw a surge of critical and commercial success with films such as \"O Quatrilho\" (Fábio Barreto, 1995), \"O Que É Isso, Companheiro?\" (Bruno Barreto, 1997) and \"Central do Brasil\" (Walter Salles, 1998), all of which were nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, the latter receiving a Best Actress nomination for Fernanda Montenegro. The 2002 crime film \"City of God\", directed by Fernando Meirelles, was critically acclaimed, scoring 90% on Rotten Tomatoes, being placed in Roger Ebert's Best Films of the Decade list and receiving four Academy Award nominations in 2004, including Best Director. Notable film festivals in Brazil include the São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro International Film Festivals and the Gramado Festival.\n\nThe theatre in Brazil has its origins in the period of Jesuit expansion when theater was used for the dissemination of Catholic doctrine in the 16th century. in the 17th and 18th centuries the first dramatists who appeared on the scene of European derivation was for court or private performances. During the 19th century, dramatic theater gained importance and thickness, whose first representative was Luis Carlos Martins Pena (1813–1848), capable of describing contemporary reality. Always in this period the comedy of costume and comic production was imposed. Significant, also in the nineteenth century, was also the playwright Antônio Gonçalves Dias. There were also numerous operas and orchestras. The Brazilian conductor Antônio Carlos Gomes became internationally known with operas like \"Il Guarany\". At the end of century 19th century orchestrated dramaturgias became very popular and were accompanied of songs of famous artists like the conductress Chiquinha Gonzaga.\n\nAlready in the early 20th century there was the presence of theaters, entrepreneurs and actor companies, but paradoxically the quality of the products staggered, and only in 1940 the Brazilian theater received a boost of renewal thanks to the action of Paschoal Carlos Magno and his student's theater, the comedians group and the Italian actors Adolfo Celi, Ruggero Jacobbi and Aldo Calvo, founders of the \"Teatro Brasileiro de Comedia\". From the 1960s it was attended by a theater dedicated to social and religious issues and to the flourishing of schools of dramatic art. The most prominent authors at this stage were Jorge Andrade and Ariano Suassuna.\n\nBrazilian painting emerged in the late 16th century, influenced by Baroque, Rococo, Neoclassicism, Romanticism, Realism, Modernism, Expressionism, Surrealism, Cubism and Abstracionism making it a major art style called Brazilian academic art. The Missão Artística Francesa (French Artistic Mission) arrived in Brazil in 1816 proposing the creation of an art academy modeled after the respected Académie des Beaux-Arts, with graduation courses both for artists and craftsmen for activities such as modeling, decorating, carpentry and others and bringing artists like Jean-Baptiste Debret.\n\nUpon the creation of the Imperial Academy of Fine Arts, new artistic movements spread across the country during the 19th century and later the event called Week of Modern Art broke definitely with academic tradition in 1922 and started a nationalist trend which was influenced by modernist arts. Among the best-known Brazilian painters are Ricardo do Pilar and Manuel da Costa Ataíde (baroque and rococo), Victor Meirelles, Pedro Américo and Almeida Junior (romanticism and realism), Anita Malfatti, Ismael Nery, Lasar Segall, Emiliano di Cavalcanti, Vicente do Rego Monteiro, and Tarsila do Amaral (expressionism, surrealism and cubism), Aldo Bonadei, José Pancetti and Cândido Portinari (modernism).\n\nThe most popular sport in Brazil is football. The Brazilian men's national team is ranked among the best in the world according to the FIFA World Rankings, and has won the World Cup tournament a record five times. \n\nVolleyball, basketball, auto racing, and martial arts also attract large audiences. The Brazil men's national volleyball team, for example, currently holds the titles of the World League, World Grand Champions Cup, World Championship and the World Cup. In auto racing, three Brazilian drivers have won the Formula One world championship eight times.\n\nSome sport variations have their origins in Brazil: beach football, futsal (indoor football) and footvolley emerged in Brazil as variations of football. In martial arts, Brazilians developed Capoeira, Vale tudo, and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu.\nBrazil has hosted several high-profile international sporting events, like the 1950 FIFA World Cup and recently has hosted the 2014 FIFA World Cup. The São Paulo circuit, Autódromo José Carlos Pace, hosts the annual Grand Prix of Brazil. São Paulo organized the IV Pan American Games in 1963, and Rio de Janeiro hosted the XV Pan American Games in 2007. On 2 October 2009, Rio de Janeiro was selected to host the 2016 Olympic Games and 2016 Paralympic Games, making it the first South American city to host the games and second in Latin America, after Mexico City. Furthermore, the country hosted the FIBA Basketball World Cups in 1954 and 1963. At the 1963 event, the Brazil national basketball team won one of its two world championship titles.\n\nGovernment\n\nGeneral information\n"}
{"id": "4637227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4637227", "title": "Bălănești Hill", "text": "Bălănești Hill\n\nBălănești Hill () is the highest geographical point in Moldova, with an altitude of 430 m (429 m according to some sources). It is located in Bălănești and belongs to Cornești Hills.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7196", "title": "Cairn", "text": "Cairn\n\nA cairn is a human-made pile (or stack) of stones. The word \"cairn\" comes from the (plural ).\n\nCairns have been and are used for a broad variety of purposes, from prehistoric times to the present.\n\nIn modern times, cairns are often erected as landmarks, a use they have had since ancient times. However, since prehistory, they have also been built and used as burial monuments; for defense and hunting; for ceremonial purposes, sometimes relating to astronomy; to locate buried items, such as caches of food or objects; and to mark trails, among other purposes.\n\nCairns are used as trail markers in many parts of the world, in uplands, on moorland, on mountaintops, near waterways and on sea cliffs, as well as in barren deserts and tundra. They vary in size from small stone markers to entire artificial hills, and in complexity from loose conical rock piles to delicately balanced sculptures and elaborate feats of megalithic engineering. Cairns may be painted or otherwise decorated, whether for increased visibility or for religious reasons. An ancient example is the inuksuk (plural inuksuit), used by the Inuit, Inupiat, Kalaallit, Yupik, and other peoples of the Arctic region of North America. Inuksuit are found from Alaska to Greenland. This region, above the Arctic Circle, is dominated by the tundra biome and has areas with few natural landmarks.\n\nDifferent types of cairns exist from rough piles of stones to interlocking dry stone round cylinders. The most important cairns commonly used around the world are interlocking stone survey cairns constructed around a central survey mark about every 30 km on the tallest peaks across a nation. These physical survey mark cairn systems are the basis for national survey grids to interconnect individual land survey measurements for entire nations. On occasion these permanent interlocking stone cairns are taken down then reconstructed to re-mark measurements to increase the accuracy of the national survey grid. They can also be used in unpopulated countries as emergency location points. In North America and Northern Europe any type of cairn can be used to mark mountain bike and hiking trails and other cross-country trail blazing, especially in mountain regions at or above the tree line. For example, the extensive trail network maintained by the DNT, the Norwegian Trekking Association, extensively uses cairns in conjunction with T-painted rock faces to mark trails. Other examples of these can be seen in the lava fields of Volcanoes National Park to mark several hikes. Placed at regular intervals, a series of cairns can be used to indicate a path across stony or barren terrain, even across glaciers. Such cairns are often placed at junctions or in places where the trail direction is not obvious. They may also be used to indicate an obscured danger such as a sudden drop, or a noteworthy point such as the summit of a mountain. Most trail cairns are small, usually being a foot or less in height. However, they may be built taller so as to protrude through a layer of snow. Hikers passing by often add a stone, as a small bit of maintenance to counteract the erosive effects of severe weather. North American trail marks are sometimes called \"ducks\" or \"duckies\", because they sometimes have a \"beak\" pointing in the direction of the route. The expression \"two rocks do not make a duck\" reminds hikers that just one rock resting upon another could be the result of accident or nature rather than intentional trail marking.\n\nThe building of cairns for recreational purposes along trails, to mark one's personal passage through the area, can result in an overabundance of rock piles. This distracts from cairns used as genuine navigational guides, and also conflicts with the Leave No Trace ethic. This ethic of outdoor practice advocates for leaving the outdoors undisturbed and in its natural condition.\n\nCoastal cairns, or \"sea marks\", are also common in the northern latitudes, especially in the island-strewn waters of Scandinavia and eastern Canada. Often indicated on navigation charts, they may be painted white or lit as beacons for greater visibility offshore.\n\nModern cairns may also be erected for historical or memorial commemoration or simply for decorative or artistic reasons. One example is a series of many cairns marking British soldiers' mass graves at the site of the Battle of Isandlwana, South Africa. Another is the Matthew Flinders Cairn on the side of Arthur's Seat, a small mountain on the shores of Port Phillip Bay, Australia. A large cairn, commonly referred to as \"the igloo\" by the locals, was built atop a hill next to the I-476 highway in Radnor, Pennsylvania and is a part of a series of large rock sculptures initiated in 1988 to symbolize the township's Welsh heritage and to beautify the visual imagery along the highway. Some are merely places where farmers have collected stones removed from a field. These can be seen in the Catskill Mountains, North America where there is a strong Scottish heritage, and may also represent places where livestock were lost. In locales exhibiting fantastic rock formations, such as the Grand Canyon, tourists often construct simple cairns in reverence of the larger counterparts. By contrast, cairns may have a strong aesthetic purpose, for example in the art of Andy Goldsworthy.\n\nNorwegian authorities said in 2015 that illegal cairns are being built each year, to a large degree by tourists to Norway; part of the problem is that individual stones are being removed from registered- and unregistered \"kulturminner\" (e.g., historical monuments).\n\nThe building of cairns for various purposes goes back into prehistory in Eurasia, ranging in size from small rock sculptures to substantial man-made hills of stone (some built on top of larger, natural hills). The latter are often relatively massive Bronze Age or earlier structures which, like kistvaens and dolmens, frequently contain burials; they are comparable to tumuli (kurgans), but of stone construction instead of earthworks. \"Cairn\" originally could more broadly refer to various types of hills and natural stone piles, but today is used exclusively of artificial ones.\n\nThe word \"cairn\" derives from Scots (with the same meaning), in turn from Scottish Gaelic , which is essentially the same as the corresponding words in other native Celtic languages of Britain, Ireland and Brittany, including Welsh (and ), Breton , Irish , and Cornish or . Cornwall () itself may actually be named after the cairns that dot its landscape, such as Cornwall's highest point, Brown Willy Summit Cairn, a 5 m (16 ft) high and 24 m (79 ft) diameter mound atop Brown Willy hill in Bodmin Moor, an area with many ancient cairns. Burial cairns and other megaliths are the subject of a variety of legends and folklore throughout Britain and Ireland. In Scotland, it is traditional to carry a stone up from the bottom of a hill to place on a cairn at its top. In such a fashion, cairns would grow ever larger. An old Scottish Gaelic blessing is , \"I'll put a stone on your stone\". In Highland folklore it is recounted that before Highland clans fought in a battle, each man would place a stone in a pile. Those who survived the battle returned and removed a stone from the pile. The stones that remained were built into a cairn to honour the dead. Cairns in the region were also put to vital practical use. For example, Dún Aonghasa, an all-stone Iron Age Irish hill fort on Inishmore in the Aran Islands, is still surrounded by small cairns and strategically placed jutting rocks, used collectively as an alternative to defensive earthworks because of the karst landscape's lack of soil.\n\nIn Scandinavia, cairns have been used for centuries as trail and sea marks, among other purposes. In Iceland, cairns were often used as markers along the numerous single-file roads or paths that crisscrossed the island; many of these ancient cairns are still standing, although the paths have disappeared. In Norse Greenland, cairns were used as a hunting implement, a game-driving \"lane\", used to direct reindeer towards a game jump.\n\nIn the mythology of ancient Greece, cairns were associated with Hermes, the god of overland travel. According to one legend, Hermes was put on trial by Hera for slaying her favorite servant, the monster Argus. All of the other gods acted as a jury, and as a way of declaring their verdict they were given pebbles, and told to throw them at whichever person they deemed to be in the right, Hermes or Hera. Hermes argued so skillfully that he ended up buried under a heap of pebbles, and this was the first cairn.\nIn Croatia, in areas of ancient Dalmatia, such as Herzegovina and the Krajina, they are known as \"gromila\".\n\nIn Portugal a cairn is called a . In a legend the moledros are enchanted soldiers, and if one stone is taken from the pile and put under a pillow, in the morning a soldier will appear for a brief moment, then will change back to a stone and magically return to the pile. The cairns that mark the place where someone died or cover the graves alongside the roads where in the past people were buried are called . The same name given to the stones was given to the dead whose identity was unknown. The or are, in the Galician legends, spirits of the night. The word \"Fes\" or \"Fieis\" is thought to mean fairy, the same root as \"fate\" (\"fado\"), that can take the same meaning as the proto-Celtic *bato-, meaning \"death\".\n\nCairns are also common on the Mediterranean island of Corsica.\n\nCairns (\"taalo\") are a common feature at El Ayo, Haylan, Qa’ableh, Qombo'ul, Heis, Salweyn and Macajilayn, among other places. Northern Somalia in general is home to a lot of such historical settlements and archaeological sites wherein are found numerous ancient ruins and buildings, many of obscure origins. However, many of these old structures have yet to be properly explored, a process which would help shed further light on local history and facilitate their preservation for posterity.\n\nSince Neolithic times, the climate of North Africa has become drier. A reminder of the desertification of the area is provided by megalithic remains, which occur in a great variety of forms and in vast numbers in presently arid and uninhabitable wastelands: cairns (\"kerkour\"), dolmens and circles like Stonehenge, underground cells excavated in rock, barrows topped with huge slabs, and step pyramid-like mounds.\n\nStarting in the Bronze Age, burial cists were sometimes interred into cairns, which would be situated in conspicuous positions, often on the skyline above the village of the deceased. The stones may have been thought to deter grave robbers and scavengers. A more sinister explanation is that they were to stop the dead from rising. There remains a Jewish tradition of placing small stones on a person's grave as a token of respect, though this is generally to relate the longevity of stone to the eternal nature of the soul and is not usually done in a cairn fashion. Stupas in India and Tibet probably started out in a similar fashion, although they now generally contain the ashes of a Buddhist saint or lama.\n\nA traditional and often decorated, heap-formed cairn called an \"ovoo\" is made in Mongolia. It primarily serves religious purposes, and finds use in both Tengriist and Buddhist ceremonies.\n\nIn Hawaii, cairns are called by the Hawaiian word .\n\nIn South Korea cairns are quite prevalent, often found along roadsides and trails, up on mountain peaks, and adjacent to Buddhist temples. Hikers frequently add stones to existing cairns trying to get just one more on top of the pile, to bring good luck. This tradition has its roots in the worship of San-shin, or Mountain Spirit, so often still revered in Korean culture.\n\nThroughout what today are the continental United States and Canada, cairns still mark indigenous peoples' game-driving \"lanes\" leading to buffalo jumps, some of which may date to 12,000 years ago.\nNatives of arctic North America (i.e. northern Canada, Alaska and indigenous Greenland) have built carefully constructed cairns and stone sculptures, called by names such as and, as landmarks and directional markers since before contact with Europeans. They are iconic of the region (an even features on the flag of the Canadian far-northeastern territory, Nunavut), and are increasingly used as a symbol of Canadian national identity. \n\nIn North America, cairns are often petroforms in the shapes of turtles or other animals.\n\nCairns have been used since pre-Columbian times throughout what is now Latin America to mark trails. Even today, in the Andes of South America, the Quechuan peoples use cairns as religious shrines to the indigenous Inca goddess Pachamama. This is often part of a syncretic form of Roman Catholicism. \nAlthough the practice is not common in English, cairns are sometimes referred to by their anthropomorphic qualities. In German and Dutch, a cairn is known as and respectively, meaning literally \"stone man\". A form of the Inuit is also meant to represent a human figure, and is called an (\"imitation of a person\"). In Italy, especially the Italian Alps, a cairn is an , or a \"small man\".\n\nCoastal cairns called sea marks are also common in the northern latitudes, and are placed along shores and on islands and islets. Usually painted white for improved offshore visibility, they serve as navigation aids. In Sweden they are called , in Norway , and are indicated in navigation charts and maintained as part of the nautical marking system. Inversely, they are used on land as sea cliff warnings in rugged and hilly terrain in the foggy Faroe Islands. In the Canadian Maritimes, cairns have been used as beacons like small lighthouses to guide boats, as depicted in the novel \"The Shipping News\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36542239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36542239", "title": "Cuarteron Reef", "text": "Cuarteron Reef\n\nCuarteron Reef (\"Huayang Jiao\" 华阳礁 in Chinese; \"Calderon Reef\" in Filipino; \"Terumbu Calderon\" in Malay; \"Bái Châu Viên\" in Vietnamese) is a reef at the east end of the London Reefs in the Spratly Islands of the South China Sea. It is occupied and controlled by China (PRC) as part of Sansha, and also claimed by the Philippines (as part of Kalayaan, Palawan) and Taiwan (ROC). The reef is long and has an area of ().\n\nOn 12 July 2016, the tribunal of the Permanent Court of Arbitration concluded that Cuarteron Reef contains, within the meaning of Article 121(1) of the Convention, naturally formed areas of land, surrounded by water, which are above water at high tide. However, for purposes of Article 121(3) of the Convention, the high-tide features at Cuarteron Reef is rocks that cannot sustain human habitation or economic life of their own and accordingly shall be entitled to 12nm of territorial sea measured from its baseline but have no exclusive economic zone or continental shelf. \n\nPrior to 2016, Carteron reef had a supply platform and a reef fortress. In 2015 the Philippine government released what it claimed were photos of a six-story facility being built by the Chinese government on the reef. Also in 2015, China completed the construction of a high lighthouse on the reef. By late 2015, China had expanded the reef's usable area to , reportedly including in the process two helicopter pads, and possibly gun, radar and missile emplacements. As of 2016, China was reportedly building a high-power radar installation on the reef.\n\nIn late 2016, photographs emerged which suggested that Cuarteron Reef has been armed with anti-aircraft weapons and a CIWS missile-defence system.\n\n"}
{"id": "28096118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28096118", "title": "Ferlo Sud Wildlife Reserve", "text": "Ferlo Sud Wildlife Reserve\n\nThe Ferlo Sud Wildlife Reserve (), established in 1972, is a IUCN habitat and species protected nature reserve located in Senegal. The nature reserve is bordered by the Ferlo Nord Wildlife Reserve to the north.\n"}
{"id": "8457663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8457663", "title": "Four corners of the world", "text": "Four corners of the world\n\nSeveral cosmological and mythological systems portray four corners of the world or four quarters of the world corresponding approximately to the four points of the compass (or the two solstices and two equinoxes). At the center may lie a sacred mountain, garden, world tree, or other beginning-point of creation. Often four rivers run to the four corners of the world, and water or irrigate the four quadrants of the Earth.\nIn Christianity and Judaism, the Old Testament () identifies the Garden of Eden, and the four rivers as the Tigris, Euphrates, Pishon, and Gihon. The Tigris runs to Assyria, the Euphrates to Armenia, the Pishon to Havilah or Elam, and the Gihon to Ethiopia.\n\nIn Mesopotamian cosmology, four rivers flowing out of the garden of creation, which is the center of the world, define the four corners of the world. From the point of view of the Akkadians, the northern geographical horizon was marked by Subartu, the west by , the east by Elam and the south by Sumer; later rulers of all of Mesopotamia, such as Cyrus, claimed among their titles \"\", \"King of the Four Quarters\".\n\nIn Hinduism, the sacred mountain Kailash has four sides, from which four rivers flow to the four quarters of the world (the Ganges, Indus, Oxus (Amu Darya), and Śita (Tarim)), dividing the world into four quadrants. Another account portrays a celestial mountain, Mount Meru, buttressed by four terrestrial mountain ranges which extend in four directions. Between them lie four sacred lakes, through which the celestial river divides into four earthly rivers, which flow to the four corners and irrigate the four quadrants of the Earth. Buddhism and the Bon religion of Tibet have similar accounts.\n"}
{"id": "8778629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8778629", "title": "GPS Block IIIA", "text": "GPS Block IIIA\n\nGPS Block IIIA consists of the first ten (known as \"tranche\") of GPS III satellites, which will be used to keep the Navstar Global Positioning System operational. Lockheed Martin designed, developed and manufactured the GPS III Non-Flight Satellite Testbed (GNST) and all ten Block IIIA satellites. The first satellite in the series was projected to launch in 2014, but significant delays have pushed the scheduled launch to December 2018. The tenth and final GPS Block IIIA launch is projected in Q2 2023.\n\nThe United States' Global Positioning System (GPS) reached Fully Operational Capability on July 17, 1995, completing its original design goals. However, additional advances in technology and new demands on the existing system led to the effort to modernize the GPS system. Announcements from the Vice President and the White House in 1998 initiated these changes. In 2000, the U.S. Congress authorized the effort, referred to as GPS III.\n\nThe project involves new ground stations and new satellites, with additional navigation signals for both civilian and military users, and aims to improve the accuracy and availability for all users.\n\nRaytheon was awarded the Next Generation GPS Operational Control System (OCX) contract on Feb 25, 2010.\n\nBlock IIIA satellites use Lockheed Martin's A2100 bus structure. The propellant and pressurant tanks are manufactured by Orbital ATK from lightweight, high-strength composite materials. Each satellite will carry 8 deployable JIB antennas designed and manufactured by Northrop Grumman Astro Aerospace\n\nThe first GPS III satellite was originally scheduled for launch in 2014, but in December 2016 the Director of the U.S. Air Force's Global Positioning Systems Directorate announced the first satellite will launch in the spring of 2018. In March 2017, the US General Accounting Office stated \"Technical issues with both the GPS III satellite and the OCX Block 0 launch control and checkout system have combined to place the planned March 2018 launch date for the first GPS III satellite at risk.\" The delays have been caused by a number of factors, primarily due to issues found in the navigation payload. Further launch date slippages were caused by the need to complete qualification testing and validation of the new SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket modification that is planned to deliver the first GPS III satellite to its orbit. As of August 2018, this launch is scheduled for December 2018.\n\nFuture Block III variants are planned to incorporate additional capabilities. They include Distress Alerting Satellite System (DASS) capabilities for search and rescue, as well as satellite crosslinks for rapid command and reduced age of data.\n\nOn April 27, 2016, Space Exploration Technologies Corp. (SpaceX), in Hawthorne, California was awarded an $82,700,000 firm-fixed-price contract for launch services to deliver a GPS III satellite to its intended orbit. This launch service contract will include launch vehicle production, mission integration, and launch operations for a GPS III mission. The locations of performance are Hawthorne, California; Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida and McGregor, Texas. The work is expected to be completed by July 31, 2018.\n\nOn September 21, 2016, the U.S. Air Force exercised a $395 million contract option with Lockheed Martin for the ninth and tenth Block IIIA space vehicles, expected to be available for launch by 2022.\n\nOne of the first announcements was the addition of a new civilian-use signal to be transmitted on a frequency other than the L1 frequency used for the existing GPS Coarse Acquisition (C/A) signal. Ultimately, this became known as the L2C signal because it is broadcast on the L2 frequency (1227.6 MHz). It can be transmitted by all block IIR-M and later design satellites. The original plan stated that until the new OCX (Block 1) system is in place, the signal would consist of a default message (\"Type 0\") that contains no navigational data. OCX Block 1 with the L2C navigation data was scheduled to enter service in February 2016, but has been delayed until 2022 or later.\n\nAs a result of OCX delays, the L2C signal was decoupled from the OCX deployment schedule. All satellites capable of transmitting the L2C signal (all GPS satellites launched since 2005) began broadcasting pre-operational civil navigation (CNAV) messages in April 2014, and in December 2014 the Air Force started transmitting CNAV uploads on a daily basis. The L2C signal will be considered fully operational after it is being broadcast by at least 24 space vehicles, currently projected to happen in 2021. As of October 2017, L2C was being broadcast from 19 satellites.\n\nThe L2C signal is tasked with providing improved accuracy of navigation, providing an easy-to-track signal, and acting as a redundant signal in case of localized interference.\n\nThe immediate effect of having two civilian frequencies being transmitted from one satellite is the ability to directly measure, and therefore remove, the ionospheric delay error for that satellite. Without such a measurement, a GPS receiver must use a generic model or receive ionospheric corrections from another source (such as a Satellite Based Augmentation System). Advances in technology for both the GPS satellites and the GPS receivers have made ionospheric delay the largest source of error in the C/A signal. A receiver capable of performing this measurement is referred to as a dual frequency receiver. The technical characteristics of it are:\n\n\nIt is defined in IS-GPS-200.\n\nA major component of the modernization process, a new military signal called M-code was designed to further improve the anti-jamming and secure access of the military GPS signals. The M-code is transmitted in the same L1 and L2 frequencies already in use by the previous military code, the P(Y) code. The new signal is shaped to place most of its energy at the edges (away from the existing P(Y) and C/A carriers).\n\nUnlike the P(Y) code, the M-code is designed to be autonomous, meaning that users can calculate their positions using only the M-code signal. P(Y) code receivers must typically first lock onto the C/A code and then transfer to lock onto the P(Y)-code.\n\nIn a major departure from previous GPS designs, the M-code is intended to be broadcast from a high-gain directional antenna, in addition to a wide angle (full Earth) antenna. The directional antenna's signal, termed a \"spot beam\", is intended to be aimed at a specific region (i.e., several hundred kilometers in diameter) and increase the local signal strength by 20 dB (10× voltage field strength, 100× power). A side effect of having two antennas is that, for receivers inside the spot beam, the GPS satellite will appear to be two GPS satellites occupying the same position.\n\nWhile the full-Earth M-code signal is available on the Block IIR-M satellites, the spot beam antennas will not be available until the Block III satellites are deployed. Like the other new GPS signals, M-code is dependent on OCX—specifically Block 2—which was scheduled to enter service in October 2016, but which has been delayed until 2022, and that initial date did not reflect the two year first satellite launch delay expected by the GAO.\nOther M-code characteristics are:\n\nSafety of Life is a civilian-use signal, broadcast on the L5 frequency (1176.45 MHz). In 2009, a WAAS satellite sent the initial L5 signal test transmissions. SVN-62, the first GPS block IIF satellite, continuously broadcast the L5 signal starting on June 28, 2010.\n\nAs a result of schedule delays to the GPS III control segment, the L5 signal was decoupled from the OCX deployment schedule. All satellites capable of transmitting the L5 signal (all GPS satellites launched since May 2010) began broadcasting pre-operational civil navigation (CNAV) messages in April 2014, and in December 2014 the Air Force started transmitting CNAV uploads on a daily basis. The L5 signal will be considered fully operational once at least 24 space vehicles are broadcasting the signal, currently projected to happen in 2024. As of April 18, 2017, L5 was being broadcast from 12 satellites.\n\n\nWRC-2000 added space signal component to this aeronautical band so the aviation community can manage interference to L5 more effectively than L2. It is defined in IS-GPS-705.\n\nL1C is a civilian-use signal, to be broadcast on the same L1 frequency (1575.42 MHz) that contains the C/A signal used by all current GPS users.\n\nL1C broadcasting will start when GPS III Control Segment (OCX) Block 1 becomes operational, currently scheduled for 2022. The L1C signal will reach full operational status when being broadcast from at least 24 GPS Block III satellites, currently projected for the late 2020s.\n\n\nIt is defined in IS-GPS-800.\n\nIncreased signal power at the Earth's surface\n\nResearchers from The Aerospace Corporation confirmed that the most efficient means to generate the high-power M-code signal would entail a departure from full-Earth coverage, characteristic of all the user downlink signals up until that point. Instead, a high-gain antenna would be used to produce a directional spot beam several hundred kilometers in diameter. Originally, this proposal was considered as a retrofit to the planned Block IIF satellites. Upon closer inspection, program managers realized that the addition of a large deployable antenna, combined with the changes that would be needed in the operational control segment, presented too great a challenge for the existing system design.\n\n\nThe GPS Operational Control Segment (OCS), consisting of a worldwide network of satellite operations centers, ground antennas and monitoring stations, provides Command and Control (C2) capabilities for GPS Block II satellites. The latest update to the GPS OCS, Commercial Off-The-Shelf Upgrade #2 (CUP2), was completed on December 1, 2016.\n\nIn 2010, the United States Air Force announced plans to develop a modern control segment, a critical part of the GPS modernization initiative. OCS will continue to serve as the ground control system of record until the new system, Next Generation GPS Operational Control System (OCX), is fully developed and functional.\n\nOCX features are being delivered to the United States Air Force in three separate phases, known as \"blocks.\" The OCX blocks are numbered zero through two. With each block delivered, OCX gains additional functionality.\n\nIn June 2016, the U.S. Air Force formally notified Congress the OCX program's projected program costs had risen above $4.25 billion, thus exceeding baseline cost estimates of $3.4 billion by 25%, also known as a critical Nunn-McCurdy breach. Factors leading to the breach include \"inadequate systems engineering at program inception\", and \"the complexity of cybersecurity requirements on OCX.\" In October 2016, the Department of Defense formally certified the program, a necessary step to allow development to continue after a critical breach.\n\nOCX Block 0 provides the minimum subset of full OCX capabilities necessary to support launch and early on-orbit spacecraft bus checkout on GPS III space vehicles.\n\nBlock 0 completed two cybersecurity testing events in April and May 2018 with no new vulnerabilities found.\n\nIn June 2018, Block 0 had its third successful integrated launch rehearsal with GPS III.\n\nThe U.S. Air Force accepted the delivery of OCX Block 0 in November 2017, and is using it to prepare for the first GPS launch in 2018.\n\nOCX Block 1 is an upgrade to OCX Block 0, at which time the OCX system achieves Initial Operating Capability (IOC). Once Block 1 is deployed, OCX will for the first time be able to command and control both Block II and Block III GPS satellites, as well support the ability to begin broadcasting the civilian L1C signal.\n\nIn November 2016, the GAO reported that OCX Block 1 had become the primary cause for delay in activating the GPS III PNT mission.\n\nBlock 1 completed the final iteration of Critical Design Review (CDR) in September 2018. Software development on Block 1 is scheduled to complete in Q2 2019, after which the Block 1 software will undergo 2.5 years of system testing.\n\nOCX Block 2 upgrades OCX with the advanced M-code features for military users and the ability to monitor performance of the civilian signals. In March 2017, the contractor rephased its OCX delivery schedule so that Block 2 will now be delivered to the Air Force concurrently with Block 1. In July 2017, an additional nine months delay to the schedule was announced. According to the July 2017 program schedule, OCX will be delivered to the Air Force in April 2022.\n\nGPS III Contingency Operations (\"COps\") is an update to the GPS Operational Control Segment, allowing OCS to provide Block IIF Position, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) features from GPS III satellites. The Contingency Operations effort enables GPS III satellites to participate in the GPS constellation, albeit in a limited fashion, without having to wait until OCX Block 1 becomes operational (currently scheduled for 2022).\n\nThe United States Air Force awarded the 96 million dollar Contingency Operations contract in February 2016. As of September 2018, software development had been complete, and component integration test was scheduled to complete in October 2018. Operational acceptance testing is scheduled for January 2020.\n\nThe ten GPS Block IIIA Space Vehicles are scheduled for launch beginning in December 2018, continuing through at least 2023.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2664724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2664724", "title": "Galera Point", "text": "Galera Point\n\nGalera Point is the easternmost point in Trinidad, in the island's far northeast. It is in the county of St David and is very close to the town of Toco.\n"}
{"id": "55215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55215", "title": "Great Artesian Basin", "text": "Great Artesian Basin\n\nThe Great Artesian Basin (GAB), located in Australia, is the largest and deepest artesian basin in the world, stretching over , with measured water temperatures ranging from . The basin provides the only source of fresh water through much of inland Australia.\n\nThe Basin underlies 22% of the continent, including the states and territories of Queensland (most of), the Northern Territory (the south-east corner of), South Australia (the north-east part of), and New South Wales (northern part of). The basin is deep in places and is estimated to contain of groundwater. The Great Artesian Basin Coordinating Committee (GABCC) coordinates activity between the various levels of government and community organisations.\n\nThis area is one of the distinct physiographic provinces of the larger East Australian Basins division, and includes the smaller Wilcannia Threshold physiographic section.\n\nThe water of the GAB is held in a sandstone layer laid down by continental erosion of higher ground during the Triassic, Jurassic, and early Cretaceous periods. During a time when much of what is now inland Australia was below sea level, the sandstone was then covered by a layer of marine sedimentary rock shortly afterward, which formed a confining layer, thus trapping water in the sandstone aquifer. The eastern edge of the basin was uplifted when the Great Dividing Range formed. The other side was created from the landforms of the Central Eastern Lowlands and the Great Western Plateau to the west.\n\nMost recharge water enters the rock formations from relatively high ground near the eastern edge of the basin (in Queensland and New South Wales) and very gradually flows toward the south and west. A much smaller amount enters along the western margin in arid central Australia, flowing to the south and east. Because the sandstones are permeable, water gradually makes its way through the pores between the sand grains, flowing at a rate of one to five metres per year.\n\nDischarge water eventually exits through a number of springs and seeps, mostly in the southern part of the basin. The age of the groundwater determined by carbon-14 and chlorine-36 measurements combined with hydraulic modelling ranges from several thousand years for the recharge areas in the north to nearly 2 million years in the south-western discharge zones.\n\nPrior to European occupation, waters of the GAB discharged through mound springs, many in arid South Australia. These springs supported a variety of endemic invertebrates (molluscs, for example), and supported extensive Aboriginal communities and trade routes. After the arrival of Europeans, they enabled early exploration and faster communications between southeastern Australia and Europe via the Australian Overland Telegraph Line. The Great Artesian Basin became an important water supply for cattle stations, irrigation, and livestock and domestic usage, and is a vital life line for rural Australia. To tap it, water wells are drilled down to a suitable rock layer, where the pressure of the water forces it up, mostly without pumping.\n\nThe discovery and use of water held underground in the Great Artesian Basin opened up thousands of square miles of country away from rivers in inland New South Wales, Queensland, and South Australia, previously unavailable for pastoral activities. European discovery of the basin dates from 1878 when a shallow bore near Bourke produced flowing water. There were similar discoveries in 1886 at Back Creek east of Barcaldine, and in 1887 near Cunnamulla.\n\nIn essence, water extraction from the GAB is a mining operation, with recharge much less than current extraction rates. In 1915, there were 1,500 bores providing of water per day, but today the total output has dropped to per day. This included just under 2000 freely flowing bores and more than 9000 that required mechanical power to bring water to the surface. Many bores are unregulated or abandoned, resulting in considerable water wastage. These problems have existed for many decades, and in January 2007 the Australian Commonwealth Government announced additional funding in an attempt to bring them under control. However, many of the mound springs referred to above have dried up due to a drop in water pressure, probably resulting in extinction of several invertebrate species.\n\nThe Olympic Dam mine in South Australia is permitted to extract up to 42 million litres of water daily from the Great Artesian Basin under the \"Roxby Downs (Indenture Ratification) Act 1982\". The underground copper and uranium mine commenced operations in 1988 and is expected to continue operating until approximately 2060.\n\nIn addition, the basin has provided water via a deep bore for a geothermal power station at Birdsville. The heated water is 98 °C (208 °F) and provides 25% of the town's needs. Ergon Energy is expanding the 80 kW plant to completely meet Birdsville's electricity requirements.\n\nAs the Great Artesian Basin underlies parts of Queensland, New South Wales, South Australia and the Northern Territory, which each operate under different legislative frameworks, policies and resource management approaches, a coordinated \"whole-of-Basin\" approach to the management of this important natural resource is required. The Great Artesian Basin Coordinating Committee (GABCC) provides advice from community organisations and agencies to State, Territory and Australian Government Ministers on efficient, effective and sustainable whole-of-Basin resource management and to coordinate activity between stakeholders.\n\nMembership of the Committee comprises all State, Territory, and Australian Government agencies with responsibilities for management of parts of the Great Artesian Basin, community representatives nominated by agencies; and sector representatives.\n\nThere is a strong debate surrounding coal seam gas (CSG) drilling and hydraulic fracturing. \n\nIn 2011, ABC TV's public affairs program \"Four Corners\" revealed that significant concerns were being expressed about depletion and chemical damage to the Basin as a result of coal seam gas extraction. In one incident, reported in the program, the Queensland Gas Company (QGC) \"fracked\" its Myrtle 3 well connecting the Springbok aquifer to the coal seam below (the Walloon Coal Measures) in 2009. A local farmer was concerned that the process may have released of a potentially toxic chemical into the Basin. QGC admitted the incident, but \"did not alert authorities or nearby water users about the problem until thirteen months after the incident.\"<ref name=\"abc.net.au-2011-02-21/farmers-count1951670\"></ref> The safety data sheet QGC had submitted for the hydraulic fracturing chemical was derived from the United States, incomplete and ten years out of date. Over thirty chemicals may be used in the process of hydraulic fracturing and their long-term impact on aquifers and the agriculture and people supported by them is unknown.\n\nSo far, there have been no proven instances of drilling or hydraulic injection affecting drinking water, bore quality or making ingress into the Artesian Basin. Australia's Oil and Gas operators provide independently verified water quality monitoring bores throughout their operating range<ref name=\"https://www.agl.com.au/waterportal\"></ref> The IESC has provided a peer reviewed report on fracking and CSG drilling in Australia \"IESC Report\".<ref name=\"https://www.environment.gov.au/system/files/resources/de709bdd-95a0-4459-a8ce-8ed3cb72d44a/files/background-review-hydraulic-fracturing_0.pdf\"></ref> BTEX chemicals (benzene, toluene, ethyl-benzene and xylene) in fracking fluids are banned in both Queensland and New South Wales, which together have all of Australia's CSG reserves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28138275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28138275", "title": "Gudmund Hatt", "text": "Gudmund Hatt\n\nProfessor Aage Gudmund Hatt (1 October 1884 – 27 January 1960) was a Danish archaeologist and cultural geographer. He was a professor of cultural geography at the University of Copenhagen from 1929 through 1947. Also an ethnologist, he was the first person to systematically inventory cultural similarities and differences amongst northern peoples.\n\nHatt was born in Vildbjerg - before 2007 in Trehøje Municipality, from 2007 in Herning Municipality - Denmark, and studied there through 1904. His father was the local teacher. In 1905, he went to the United States and lived among the Cherokee Indians in Oklahoma for a year, which led him to study ethnography at Harvard University from 1906 to 1907. Returned to Denmark, he lectured on Native Americans in the United States and their former way of living, and began his studies under Hans Peder Steensby, ethnographer and professor of geography at the University of Copenhagen.\n\nIn 1911, he married the painter and ethnographer Emilie Demant, who had developed a keen interest in Sami people. In the same year, he began doctoral studies of Arctic people, including an ethnographic study of Lapland. For two years, between 1912-1914, Hatt and Demant visited northern Sweden several times, collecting ethnographic materials for the National Museum of Denmark. This research formed the basis for his 1914 doctoral thesis, \"Arctic skin clothing in Eurasia and America\" when he noticed the cut in the clothing of Arctic peoples was based on whether they fished marine life or hunted in loose snow. From this, he theorized that two cultures developed in the Arctic, one that was land-locked and another that was coastal. In 1914, while a fellow of The American-Scandinavian Foundation, he studied at Columbia University.\n\nIn 1919, Hatt was hired to be the inspector at the National Museum of Denmark's Ethnography Department, and he remained at this civil service post for ten years. This position gave him the opportunity to participate in archaeological research at numerous settlement sites in central and western Jutland. Here, he was among the first in Danish archaeology who recognized that the ancient houses were not destroyed by fire which he recognized after excavating the areas between the houses, and not just the individual house sites, which was previously the custom. In 1922-23, he led an archaeological expedition to the Virgin Islands and Santo Domingo in the Caribbean. From 1923, Hatt was a lecturer in cultural geography at the University of Copenhagen, becoming a full professor in 1929.\n\nHatt became a public figure in the late 1930s through the early 1940s with his geopolitical analyses that communicated through radio, newspaper, books and journal articles. During the World War II German occupation of Denmark, Hatt joined the Danish-German reconciliation, possibly because he saw Germany as a natural and inevitable bulwark against Russian communism. After Denmark's liberation, Hatt was brought before an official court, was found to be engaged in ‘dishonourable national conduct’ during the German occupation, and was dismissed from his university chair, albeit with full pension. He became professionally more isolated, however, Hatt continued to publish more of his work in archeology. His last research was on the Danish Iron Age settlement in Fjand. \n\nHatt served on the Royal Danish Geographical Society's council and was a member of the board of directors. He was a member of the American Ethnological Society, American Anthropological Association, Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters, Société Royale des Lettres de Lund, Dansk Selskab for Oldtida, La Société Royale des Antiquaires du Nord, and Society des Americains de Paris. In 1915, he was awarded the Barnard Medal Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1137385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1137385", "title": "Hikurangi Trench", "text": "Hikurangi Trench\n\nThe Hikurangi Trench, also called the Hikurangi Trough, is an oceanic trench in the bed of the Pacific Ocean off the east coast of the North Island of New Zealand, lying between the southern end of the Cook Strait and the Chatham Rise. It is the southward continuation of the much deeper Kermadec Trench. It lies in the Hikurangi Margin subduction zone, which is the southern extension of the Kermadec-Tonga subduction zone. The Hikurangi Margin is the subduction zone where the thick oceanic Hikurangi Plateau is subducting beneath continental crust of the Indo-Australian Plate. By contrast, the Kermadec and Tonga trenches represent the parts of the subduction zone where oceanic crust of the Pacific Plate is subducting beneath oceanic crust of the Indo-Australian Plate.\n\nAlthough shallower than the trenches north of it, the Hikurangi Trench reaches depths of 3,000 metres as close as 80 kilometres from shore. Its maximum depth is about .\n\nAt the southern end of the trench, off the coast of the Marlborough region, the seabed rises sharply, and because of the prevailing winds and tides in this area, many deep water species are found close to the shore. This food source attracts the whales for which the town of Kaikoura is famous.\n\nThe plate boundary continues inland along the Marlborough Fault System, linking through to the Alpine Fault. Here the plates converge much more obliquely, exhibiting transpression instead of subduction.\n\n"}
{"id": "6909792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6909792", "title": "Hærvejen", "text": "Hærvejen\n\nHærvejen (Danish, literally: \"the army road\", , literally: \"oxen way\", , literally: oxen path), sometimes referred to in English as the Ox Road, is the name given to an ancient trackway in Denmark and Schleswig-Holstein. The route runs from Viborg via Flensburg to Hamburg, the territory of which it entered at Ochsenzoll (\"oxen toll\", \"toll\" in the meaning of \"customs\") and where it connected with other roads. It has been known by several other names throughout history, most importantly \"the Cattle Road\" (\"Studevejen\") and \"the Oxen Road\" or \"Ox Road\" (\"Oksevejen\" / \"Ochsenweg\").\n\nThe road runs more or less along the watershed of the Jutland Peninsula, known as the \"Jyske Højderyg\" (Jutland Ridge), similar to the ridgeways in England. By using this route one could avoid rivers, or ford them close to their origins where they were still shallow. As time went by this route was improved with paved fords, embankments and bridges. Concentrations of mounds, defensive ditches, settlements and other historic landmarks can be found along the road. While sections of it can be traced as far back as 4000 BC, newer road construction has erased many traces. Some of them show a width of up to . The use of the road declined during the Viking age, as transportation by ship became more convenient. New cities were constructed along the coast instead of the road.\n\nTwo of Denmark’s oldest settlements, Viborg and Jelling are situated along the road.\n\nIn the southern, narrow part of the Jutish peninsula the trackway followed the edge of western marshes and eastern moraine country. Near Haderslev, Åbenrå, Flensburg, and Schleswig, it branched into western bypasses on the hills and accesses to the towns, each of them localized at the inner end of a long, narrow bay. One of the southern ends of the Ochsenweg has given its name to a suburb of Hamburg: \"Ochsenzoll\" is the locality of the ancient custom post.\n\nPart of the tracks westerly bypassed Hamburg towards Wedel bei Hamburg or Blankenese, where a ferry passing the Elbe connected to Cranz (then Prince-Archbishopric of Bremen). An easterly bypass headed for Zollenspieker Ferry (a Hamburg-Lübeckian condominium between 1420 and 1868), passing the same river towards Hoopte in the then Principality of Lunenburg. From south of the Elbe the cattle tracks continued up to Westphalia.\n\nThe road was primarily a trade road. The most important commodity was livestock (especially the eponymous oxen), but also amber, hides, honey and fur went south. Annually up to 50,000 head of cattle came along the oxen road. Metal, glass and weapons went north. In spite of the most familiar Danish name, it was seldom used for military invasions, neither northwards, nor southwards. Nevertheless, many defensive constructions can be found straddling the road up through Jutland.\n\nToday modern highways follow the route of the old road. At a few places it is still possible to see the old tracks, embankments, sheep pens and fords. \nParts of it have been converted into a long-distance walking route. A popular walk known as \"Hærvejsmarchen\" takes place each year. An international cycle route has been marked from the Elbe to Viborg.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "401591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401591", "title": "Index of Afghanistan-related articles", "text": "Index of Afghanistan-related articles\n\n– 055 Brigade\n– 100 Classrooms program\n– 2003 Loya jirga\n\n– Ab Band District\n– Ab Kamari District\n– Ab Khuda'i\n– Abaidullah\n– Abasi\n– Abd Al Rahim Abdul Rassak Janko\n– Abd al-Latif ibn Muhammad Taraghay Ulughbek\n– Abdul Ahad Mohmand\n– Abdul Ali Mazari\n– Abdul Hakim Bukhary\n– Abdul Haq (Afghan leader)\n– Abdul Jabbar Naeemi\n– Abdul Latif Hakimi\n– Abdul Malik Pahlawan\n– Abdul Qader Bedil\n– Abdul Qadir (Afghan communist)\n– Abdul Rahim Ghafoorzai\n– Abdul Rahim Hatef\n– Abdul Rahman (convert)\n– Abdul Rahman Abdullah Mohamed Juma Kahm\n– Abdul Rahman Mosque (Kabul city)\n– Abdul Rahman Pazhwak\n– Abdul Rashid Dostum\n– Abdul Rasul Sayyaf\n– Abdul Razeq\n– Abdul Wali (detainee)\n– Abdul Zahir (Afghan Prime Minister)\n– Abdul Zahir (Guantanamo captive 753)\n– Abdul Zahir (Taliban leader)\n– Abdullah (Afghanistan)\n– Abdullah Gan\n– Abdullah Shah Ghazi\n– Abdur Rab Nishtar\n– Abdur Rahman Khan\n– Abdurrahim Wardak\n– Abib Sarajuddin\n– Ablepharus pannonicus\n– Abu Sa'id (Timurid dynasty)\n– Access for Afghan Women Act\n– Achaemenid Empire\n– Achakzai\n– Achin District\n– Adam Khan And Durkhanai\n– Afghan abasi\n– Afghan afghani\n– Afghan Air Force\n– Afghan bread\n– Afghan Cabinet of Ministers\n– Afghan carpet\n– Afghan Christians\n– Afghan Civil War (1989-1992)\n– Afghan Civil War (1992-1996)\n– Afghan Civil War (1996-2001)\n– Afghan Civil War\n– Afghan Constitution Commission\n– Afghan cricket team\n– Afghan Defense Ministry\n– Afghan Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration Program\n– Afghan dress\n- Afghan German Management College\n– Afghan hedgehog\n– Afghan Independence Day\n– Afghan Islamic Press\n– Afghan Kadu Bouranee\n– Afghan Kofta\n– Afghan Ministry of Health\n– Afghan Mobile Mini Children's Circus\n– Afghan Museum\n– Afghan national anthem\n– Afghan National Army\n– Afghan National Museum\n– Afghan National Solidarity Programme\n– Afghan New Beginnings Programme\n– Afghan Northern Alliance\n– Afghan parliamentary election, 2005\n– Afghan poetry\n– Afghan refugees\n– Afghan rupee\n– Afghan Social Democratic Party\n– Afghan Supreme Court\n– Afghan Television\n– Afghan Transitional Administration\n– Afghan Turkestan\n– Afghan TV\n– Afghan Water and Power Ministry\n– Afghan Wireless Communication Company\n– Afghan Women's Network\n– Afghanistan\n- Afghanistan Accession to World Trade Organization\n– Afghanistan at the 1936 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan at the 1948 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan at the 1956 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan at the 1960 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan at the 1964 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan at the 1968 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan at the 1972 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan at the 1980 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan at the 1988 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan at the 2004 Summer Olympics\n– Afghanistan Football Federation\n– Afghanistan Information Management Services\n– Afghanistan International Bank\n– Afghanistan Liberation Organization\n– Afghanistan Meteorological Authority\n– Afghanistan national football team\n– Afghanistan Pakistan People's Friendship Association\n– Afghanistan presidential election, 2004\n– Technology Education Center, Kabul\n– Afghanistan Scout Association\n– Afghanistan War order of battle\n– Afghanistan–Uzbekistan Friendship Bridge\n– Afrasiab Khattak\n– Afridi\n– Afshar language\n– Afsharid dynasty\n– Agesiles\n– AH1\n– Ahmad Shah Ahmadzai\n– Ahmad Shah Bahadur\n– Ahmad Wali\n– Ahmad Zahir\n– Ahmad Zia Massoud\n– Ahmadzai (Ghilji clan)\n– Ahmadzai (Wazir clan)\n– Ahmed Khan of Herat\n– Ahmed Shah Abdali\n– Ahmed Shah Massoud\n– Ahmed Wali Karzai\n– Ahmed Yusuf Nuristani\n– Ahtaj\n– Aimak\n– Aimaq language\n– AINA (organization)\n– Aisha-i-Durani School\n– Ajmal Khattak\n– Ajristan District\n– Akbar Khan\n– Akbar Shah II\n– Akbar\n– Akcha\n– Akhund of Swat\n– Akram Khan Durrani\n– Akram Yari\n– Al Farouq training camp\n– Al Ghuraba training camp\n– Al Sadeeq training camp\n– Al-Hajjaj bin Yousef\n– Al-Walid I\n– Al-Walid II\n– Alamgir II\n– Alchon\n– Ali Ahmad Jalali\n– Ali Shah Durrani\n– Ali Sher Nawai\n– Alif Mohammed\n– Alikozai\n– Alptigin\n– Amani High School\n– Amanullah Khan\n– Amanullah Shah\n– Ameer Hamza Shinwari\n– American prisoners who were previously Taliban prisoners\n– American University of Afghanistan\n– Amu Darya\n– Anar Dara District\n– Ancient Iranian peoples\n– Andkhoy\n– Angaria (tribe)\n– Anwar Saifullah Khan\n– Anwar ul-Haq Ahadi\n– Arachosia\n– Ardashir I\n– Ardashir II\n– Ardashir III\n– Arghandab District\n– Arghandab River\n– Aria (satrapy)\n– Ariana Afghan Airlines\n– Ariana TV\n– Arif Khan\n– Arkan Mohammad Ghafil Al Karim\n– Arsala Rahmani\n– Aryob\n– Asadabad district\n– Asadabad, Afghanistan\n– Asadullah Abdul Rahman\n– Asadullah Khalid\n– Asfandyar Wali Khan\n– Ashraf Ghani\n– Asii\n– Askunu language\n– Assadullah Sarwari\n– Assadullah Wafa\n– At Five in the Afternoon\n– Atel Mohammed\n– Attan\n– Aurangzeb\n– Aush\n– Aymāq\n– Ayna TV\n– Ayub Shah Durrani\n– Azam Khan (squash player)\n– Azam Shah\n– Azarethes\n– Azim Khan\n– Aziz Herawi\n\n– Babrak Karmal\n– Babur Ibn-Baysunkur\n– Babur\n– Baburnama\n– Bacha Khan Zadran\n– Bactria-Margiana Archaeological Complex\n– Bactria\n– Bactrian Gold\n– Badakhshan Province\n– Badar\n– Badghis Province\n– Badi' al-Zaman\n– Baghlan Province\n– Baghlan\n– Baghran District\n– Bagram Air Base\n– Bagram\n– Bahadur Shah I\n– Bahadur Shah II\n– Bahlikas\n– Bahram Chobin\n– Bahram I\n– Bahram II\n– Bahram III\n– Bahram IV\n– Bahram V\n– Bakhtar Afghan Airlines\n– Bakwa District\n– Bala Buluk District\n– Bala Hissar\n– Balash\n– Balkh Airlines\n– Balkh Province\n– Balkh River\n– Balkh\n– Baloch (tribe)\n– Baloch people\n– Baloch tribes\n– Balochistan (region)\n– Baluchi, Afghanistan\n– Bamyan City\n– Bamyan Province\n– Band-e Amir\n– Banebshenan banebshen\n– Bangash\n– Bangulzai\n– Barai Ghar\n– Barakzai Dynasty\n– Barakzay clan\n– Baranzai\n– Barbad\n– Barbari dialect\n– Barija\n– Basharmal Sultani\n– Bashgul Valley\n– Bati Kot District\n– Battanni\n– Battle of Ahmed Khel\n– Battle of al-Qādisiyyah\n– Battle of Damghan (disambiguation)\n– Battle of Jellalabad\n– Battle of Kabul (1842)\n– Battle of Kandahar\n– Battle of Maiwand\n– Battle of Tora Bora\n– Battles of the Second Anglo-Afghan War\n– Bazai\n– Bazrangids\n– Bengal monitor\n– Bhutani\n– Bhutta\n– Bishapur\n– Bizenjo\n– Black-crowned night heron\n– Blanford's fox\n– Boghra Irrigation Canal\n– Boiga trigonata\n– Bolan Pass\n– Bolani\n– Bolawnee\n– Bonjan Salad\n– Bonn Agreement (Afghanistan)\n– Boran\n– Bostan Karim\n– Brahmani (tribe)\n– Brahui language\n– Brahui people\n– Brent Bennett\n– Broghol\n– Buddhas of Bamyan\n– Buddhism in Afghanistan\n– Bugti\n– Bukhori language\n– Buledi\n– Buni Zom\n– Burfat\n– Burhanuddin Rabbani\n- Burka Band\n– Burqa\n– Burzoe\n– Buzdar\n\n– Camp Rhino\n– Camp Warehouse\n– Caspian tiger\n– Cataphract\n– Caucasus Indicus\n– Central Council of Afghan Trade Unions\n– Chador\n– Chaghcharan\n– Chakansur\n– Chakhil-i-Ghoundi Stupa\n– Chaki Wardak District\n– Chamkanni\n– Chaparhar District\n– Char Bagh\n– Charikar\n– Charlemagne to the Mughals\n– Chief Justice of Afghanistan\n– Chisht\n– Choaspes River (Afghanistan)\n– Christmas in Kabul\n– Civilian casualties of the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan\n– Cleophis\n– Coalition casualties in Afghanistan\n– Combined Joint Task Force 76\n– Communications in Afghanistan\n– Communist (Maoist) Party of Afghanistan\n– Concord Peak\n– Constitution of Afghanistan\n– Corsac fox\n– Counter Narcotics Police of Afghanistan\n– Ctesiphon\n– Culture of Afghanistan\n\n– Da Afghanistan Bank\n– Dacht-i-Navar Group\n– Dad Mohammad Khan\n– Daman District, Afghanistan\n– Dand District\n– Daoud's Republic of Afghanistan\n– Dara-I-Nur District\n– Dara-i-Suf District\n– Dardic languages\n– Dari (Afghanistan)\n– Darul Aman Palace\n– Darvaz\n– Dasht-i-Leili massacre\n– Daulat Khel\n– Daulatzai\n– Davi (tribe)\n– Dawood Sarkhosh\n– Day Mirdad District\n– Daykundi Province\n– Deh Rahwod District\n– Deh Rawood\n– Del Bar Jan Arman\n– Democratic Republic of Afghanistan\n– Democratic Watan Party of Afghanistan\n– Democratic Youth Organization of Afghanistan\n– Demographics of Afghanistan\n– Derafsh Kaviani\n– Derunta training camp\n– Dih Bala District\n– Dilawar\n– Dilip Kumar\n– Dishu District\n– Districts of Afghanistan\n– Djamasp\n– Domari language\n– Domki\n– Dorah Pass\n– Dost Mohammad Khan\n– Drangiana\n– Dur Baba District\n– Durand line\n– Durrani Empire\n– Durrani\n\n– Economy of Afghanistan\n– Edo-Khel\n– Education in Afghanistan\n– Eg, Afghanistan\n– Elections in Afghanistan\n– Emam Sahib\n– Embassy of Afghanistan in Ottawa\n– Emblem of Afghanistan\n– Environmental issues in Afghanistan\n– Eristicophis\n– Eumeces schneideri\n– European influence in Afghanistan\n– Eurylepis taeniolatus\n– Euthydemia\n\n– Faisal Ahmad Shinwari\n– Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari\n– Falak Sher\n– Fall of Sassanids\n– Faqir of Ipi\n– Farah City District\n– Farah Province\n– Farah River\n– Farah, Afghanistan\n– Farhad Darya\n– Fariba Ahmedi (member of parliament)\n– Fariba Nawa\n– Farrukhsiyar\n– Faryab Province\n– Faryadi Sarwar Zardad\n– Fayzabad\n– February 2010 Salang tunnel avalanches\n– Firouzabad\n– First Anglo-Afghan War\n– Flag of Afghanistan\n– Foreign relations of Afghanistan\n– Friba Razayee\n– Friday Mosque of Herat (Herat city)\n\n– Gabol\n– Gandamak\n– Gandapur\n– Gandhara\n– Gardez, Afghanistan\n- Gardens of Babur\n– Gay rights in Afghanistan\n– Gelan District\n– Geneva Accords\n– Geography of Afghanistan\n– Gereshk\n– Gerishk District\n– Ghani Khan\n– Ghaznavid Empire\n– Ghazni Province\n– Ghazni\n– Ghilzai\n– Gholam Rabani Nasher\n– Gholam Serwar Nasher\n– Ghor Province\n– Ghorak District\n– Ghorids\n– Ghormach District\n– Ghourghushti\n– Ghulam Faruq Yakubi\n– Ghulam Faruque Khan\n– Ghulam Haider Khan High School\n– Ghulam Ishaq Khan\n– Ghulam Khan\n– Ghulam Mohammad Farhad\n– Ghulam Sediq Wardak\n– Ghurids\n– Gichki\n– Girishk\n– Gloydius\n– Gola (tribe)\n– Golden Needle Sewing School\n– Gomal River\n– Gosh Feel\n– Goshta District\n– Great cormorant\n– Great gerbil\n– Greater Khorasan\n– Greco-Bactrian Kingdom\n– Green Mosque (Balkh)\n– Grey heron\n– Gul Agha Sherzai\n– Gul Hassan Khan\n– Gul Lasht Zom\n– Gul M. Zhowandai (poet, novelist, short story writer)\n– Gulbuddin Hekmatyar\n– Gulistan District\n– Gumal Pass\n– Gundeshapur\n\n– Habiba Sarabi\n– Habibullah Ghazi\n– Habibullah Khan\n– Habibullah Shah\n– Habibullāh Kalakāni\n– Hadda\n– Hafizullah Amin\n– Hafizullah Shabaz Khail\n– Haibak\n– Haji Bashar\n– Haji Gilani\n– Haji Kashmir Khan\n– Haji Mohammad Mohaqiq\n– Haji Mohammed Zaher\n– Haji Piyada\n– Haji Piyada (Balkh Province)\n– Hajigak\n– Hamid Karzai\n– Hamidullah (Guantanamo detainee 1119)\n– Hamun-i-Helmand\n– Harakat-i-Inqilab-i-Islami\n– Harakat-i-Islami\n– Hari River\n– Hashim Khan\n– Hasni\n– Hazara\n– Hazaragi language\n– Hazarajat\n– Hazaristan\n– Hazrat Ali (Afghan politician)\n– Hedayat Arsala\n– Helmand Province\n– Helmand River\n– Hemorrhois ravergieri\n– Heraios\n– Herat Airfield\n– Herat Province\n– Herat\n– Hezb-e Jomhorikhahan\n– Hezbi Islami\n– Hezbi Wahdat\n– Hindu Kush\n– Hindu temples of Kabul\n– Hinduism in Afghanistan\n– Hindukush White-Robed Kafir people\n– Hisarak District\n– Hisarak, Afghanistan\n– Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik\n– History of Afghanistan since 1992\n– History of Afghanistan\n– Hormizd I\n– Hormizd II\n– Hormizd III\n– Hormizd IV\n– Hormizd VI\n– Hotak\n– Hotaki\n– House of Elders\n– House of the People (Afghanistan)\n– Hua (state)\n– Human rights in Afghanistan\n– Humayun\n– Husayn Bayqarah\n– Huvishka\n\n– Ibrahim (Timurid Dynasty)\n– Ibrahim ibn al-Walid\n– Id Gah Mosque\n– Id Gah Mosque (Kabul city)\n– Ilkham Turdbyavich Batayev\n– Inayatullah Shah\n– Indian pond heron\n– Indo-Sassanid\n– InterContinental Hotel, Kabul\n– International Security Assistance Force\n– Invasion of Afghanistan prisoner escapes\n– Invasion of India by Scythian Tribes\n– Invasions of Afghanistan\n– Irfanullah Khan Marwat\n– Iris verification center\n– Ishaq Shahryar\n– Ishkashimi language\n– Islam in Afghanistan\n– Islamic conquest of Afghanistan\n– Islamic conquest of Persia\n– Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan\n– Islamic Movement of Afghanistan\n– Islamic Party Jamiat of Afghanistan\n– Islamic Party of Afghanistan\n– Islamic Union for the Liberation of Afghanistan\n– Islamic United Party of Afghanistan\n– Ismail of Ghazni\n– Istakhr\n– Istalif\n– Istor-o-Nal\n\n– Jadoon\n– Jaghalkani-i-Takhta Pul massacres\n– Jaghori District\n– Jaghori\n– Jahandar Shah\n– Jahangir\n– Jahangiri\n– Jalalabad District\n– Jalalabad\n– Jalozai\n– Jalrez District\n– Jamali\n– Jamiat Islami\n– Jamoot\n– Jamote\n– Jawand District\n– Jawand\n– Jews of Afghanistan\n– Jirga\n– Jogezai\n– Jowzjan Province\n– Judiciary of Afghanistan\n– Juma Khan\n– Juma Mohammad Mohammadi\n– Jurm District\n\n– Ka'ba-i Zartosht\n– Kabul Golf Club\n– Kabul International Airport\n– Kabul Province\n– Kabul River\n– Kabul Times\n– Kabul University\n– Kabul Weekly\n– Kabul-Kandahar highway\n– Kabul\n– Kafiristan\n– Kajakai Dam\n– Kajaki District\n– Kaka Khel\n– Kakahhel (tribe)\n– Kakar\n– Kakazai\n– Kalasha-ala language\n– Kalpar\n– Kam Air Flight 904\n– Kam Air\n– Kama District\n– Kambojas in Indian Traditions\n– Kambojas\n– Kamkata-viri language\n– Kamp Holland\n– Kamviri\n– Kandahar Airfield\n– Kandahar Province\n– Kandahar\n– Kanishka II\n– Kanishka III\n– Kanishka\n– Kapisa Province\n– Karakalpak language\n– Karakul (hat)\n– Kardan University\n– Karim Khalili\n– Kartir\n– Karz, Kandahar\n– Kashmir Smast\n– Kata-vari\n– Kavadh I\n– Kavadh II\n– Kazakh language\n– KHAD\n– Khajeh Abdollah Ansari\n– Khak-e-Safid District\n– Khalden training camp\n– Khalil (tribe)\n– Khalil Sultan (Timurid dynasty)\n– Khalilollah Khalili\n– Khalilulla Khalili\n– Khalilullah Khalili (poet)\n– Khalis faction\n– Khalq\n– Khan\n– Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan\n– Khan Abdul Jabbar Khan\n– Khan Lodhi\n– Khan Muhammad Sarwar Khan Kakar\n– Khan Wali Khan\n– Kharoti\n– Khatir Afridi\n– Khatir Afridi (poet)\n– Khattak Dance\n– Khattak\n– Khel\n– Khetran\n– Khirullah Said Wali Khairkhwa\n– Khogyani District\n– Khosrau I\n– Khosrau II\n– Khost Mosque (Khost city)\n– Khost Province\n– Khost\n– Khudiadadzai\n– Khulm\n– Khulmi\n– Khulozai\n– Khushal Khan Khattak\n– Khushal Khan Khattak (poet)\n– Khvarvaran\n– Khwaja 'Abd Allah Ansari shrine (Herat)\n– Khyber Afghan Airlines\n– Khyber Pass\n– Kidarites\n– Killi Faizo\n– Klasik\n– Koche Sesame\n– Komedes\n– Kotal-e Salang\n– Koyo Zom\n– Kuchelai\n– Kujula Kadphises\n– Kunar Province\n– Kunar River\n– Kunar Valley\n– Kundi\n– Kunduz Province\n– Kunduz\n– Kurram River\n– Kurram Valley\n– Kurta\n– Kushan Empire\n– Kushk River\n– Kuz Kunar District\n– Kyrgyz language\n\n– Laghman Province\n– Lakhmids\n– Lal Pur District\n– Lal Pur\n– Landay, Helmand\n– Lari (tribe)\n– Lash wa Juwayn District\n– Lash wa Juwayn\n– Lashkar Gah Mosque (Lashkar Gah, Helmand Province)\n– Lashkargah District\n– Lashkargah\n– Lasi\n– Laudakia badakhshana\n– Laudakia caucasia\n– Laudakia himalayana\n– Law enforcement in Afghanistan\n– Layeq Shir-Ali\n– Leghari\n– Lejay, Afghanistan\n– Lemar TV\n– Liberal Democratic Party of Afghanistan\n– LGBT rights in Afghanistan (Gay rights)\n– List of Afghan Air Force aircraft\n– List of Afghan companies\n– List of Afghan Transitional Administration personnel\n– List of Afghanistan Governors\n– List of Afghans\n– List of airports in Afghanistan\n– List of birds on stamps of Afghanistan\n– List of cities in Afghanistan\n– List of Coalition aircraft crashes in Afghanistan\n– List of fish on stamps of Afghanistan\n– List of leaders of Afghanistan\n– List of Mughal emperors\n– List of newspapers in Afghanistan\n– List of notable Persian figures in the Sassanid era\n– List of people on stamps of Afghanistan\n– List of places in Afghanistan\n– List of political parties in Afghanistan\n– List of schools in Afghanistan\n– List of Soviet aircraft crashes in Afghanistan\n– List of Taliban leaders\n– List of universities in Afghanistan\n– List of years in Afghanistan\n– Little cormorant\n– Lodhi\n– Logar Province\n– Logar River\n– Loya jirga\n– Lycodon striatus\n\n– Macrovipera lebetina\n– Madda Khel\n– Maghdud Khel\n– Magsi\n– Mahmud (Timurid Dynasty)\n– Mahmud Khel\n– Mahmud of Ghazni\n– Mahmud Shah Durrani\n– Mahmud Tarzi\n– Mahsud Khel\n– Mahsud\n– Mahwash\n– Maidan Shahr\n– Maiwand\n– Majah Ha Adrif\n– Malang Jan\n– Malek Military Center\n– Malik Ayaz\n– Malistan District\n– Mamund\n– Mandokhel\n– MarcoPolo Airways\n– Marina Golbahari\n– Marjan (lion)\n– Marri\n– Maruf District\n– Maruf\n– Marwan I\n– Marwan II\n– Marwand\n– Marwat\n– Marzban\n– Mas'ud I of Ghazni\n– Mashwanis\n– Massoud Khalili\n– Massouda Jalal\n– Maulana Fazal-ur-Rehman\n– Maw'dud Ghaznavi\n– Maydan Shahr District\n– Maymana\n– Mazari Sharif\n– Meena Keshwar Kamal\n– Mehdat Abdul Salam Shabana\n– Mehmood Khan Achakzai\n– Mengal\n– Mes Aynak\n– Mesalina guttulata\n– Mian Ghulam Jilani\n– Miangul Aurangzeb\n– Miangul Jahan Zeb\n– Middle Bih-Kavad\n– Military of Afghanistan\n– Minaret of Jam\n– Mir Wais Hotak\n– Mir Waiz\n– Mirwais Sadiq\n– Moghol language\n– Mohamedzai\n– Mohammad Afzal Khan\n– Mohammad Aslam Watanjar\n– Mohammad Ayub Khan (Emir of Afghanistan)\n– Mohammad Fahim Dashty\n– Mohammad Ghaznavi\n– Mohammad Ghous\n– Mohammad Hashim Maiwandwal\n– Mohammad Hussain Sarahang\n– Mohammad Musa Shafiq\n– Mohammad Najibullah\n– Mohammad Nur Ahmad Etemadi\n– Mohammad Rabbani\n– Mohammad Yaqub Khan\n– Mohammad Yusuf\n– Mohammed Asif Safi (Army General)\n– Mohammed Daoud Khan\n– Mohammed Fahim\n– Mohammed Ibrahim\n– Mohammed Khaksar\n– Mohammed Nadir Shah\n– Mohammed Omar\n– Mohammed Zahir Shah\n– Mohmand\n– Mosque of the Cloak of the Prophet Mohammed (Kandahar)\n– Mosque of the Hair of the Prophet (Kandahar)\n– Mount Sikaram\n– Mouse-like hamster\n– Muawiya II\n– Muawiyah I\n– Mufti Mahmud\n– Muhammad Asif Muhsini\n– Muhammad Aslam Khan Khattak\n– Muhammad Ismail Agha\n– Muhammad of Ghor\n– Muhammad Shah\n– Muhammad Hasni\n– Muhmand Dara District\n– Mullah Dadullah Akhund\n– Mullazai\n– Mumviri\n– Munji language\n– Muqawqis\n– Muqur District, Ghazni\n– Muqur, Ghazni\n– Murgab River (Afghanistan)\n– Murghab District\n– Murghab River (Tajikistan)\n– Murghab, Afghanistan\n– Musa Qala District\n– Music of Afghanistan\n– Music of Badakhshan\n\n– Nad Ali District\n– Nadia Anjuman (poet)\n– Naish District\n– Naja oxiana\n– Nakisa\n– Nangarhar Province\n– Naqsh-e Rustam\n– Narseh\n– Narsieh\n– Naseerullah Babar\n– Nasibullah\n– Nasrat Parsa\n– Nasrullah Khan (Afghanistan)\n– Nasten\n– National Assembly of Afghanistan\n– National Congress Party of Afghanistan\n– National Islamic Movement of Afghanistan\n– National Movement of Afghanistan\n– National Solidarity Movement of Afghanistan\n– National Stadium (Afghanistan)\n– National Workers' Union of Afghanistan\n– Nausherwani\n– Nawa District\n– Nawur District\n– Nawzad District\n– Nawzad\n– Nazyan District\n– Nematullah Shahrani\n– Niazi\n– Nikusiyar\n– Nimruz Province\n– Nirkh District\n– Nishapur\n– Nizami Arudhi Samarqandi\n– Nok Kundi\n– Noorzai\n– Norbert Holl\n– North Zone of Afghanistan\n– Noshaq\n– Nothazai\n– Nur Muhammad Taraki\n– Nurestan Province\n– Nuristan\n– Nuristani people\n– Nuristani languages\n\n– Oligodon taeniolatus\n– OMAR Mine Museum\n– Omar Samad\n– Operation Avalanche (Afghanistan)\n- Operation Infinite Reach\n– Operation Mountain Viper\n– Operation Tsunami\n– Operation Valiant Strike\n– Operation Warrior Sweep\n– Orakzai\n– Organization for Mine Clearance and Afghan Rehabilitation\n– Origins of the name Afghan\n– Oruzgan Province\n– Osama (film)\n\n– Pachir Wa Agam District\n– Paghman Gardens\n– Paghman\n– Paktia Province\n– Paktika Province\n– Pakul\n– Palace of Ardashir\n– Pamir Airways\n– Pamir Mountains\n– Panj River\n– Panjdeh Incident\n– Panjshir Province\n– Panjshir Valley\n– Panjwaye District\n– Parcham\n– Parnassius actius\n– Parnassius jacquemontii\n– Paropamisade\n– Parvan Province\n– Parwin Pazwak\n– Pashai people\n– Pashayi language\n– Pashto language\n– Pashto media\n– Pashtun culture\n– Pashtun diaspora\n– Pashtun people\n– Kahols\n– Pashtun tribes\n– Pashtunistan\n– Pashtunwali\n– Peche River\n– People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan\n– Peroz I\n– Persian Empire\n– Persian language\n– Phrynocephalus reticulatus\n– Pir of Manki Sharif\n– Pir Roshan\n– Pirooz\n– Policharki Prison\n– Politics of Afghanistan\n– Popalzai\n– Postage stamps and postal history of Afghanistan\n– Pre-Islamic period of Afghanistan\n– President of Afghanistan\n– Prime Minister of Afghanistan\n– Prince Saiful Malook and Badri Jamala\n– Prostitution in Afghanistan\n– Protestants in Afghanistan\n– Provinces of Afghanistan\n– Provincial reconstruction team\n– Psammophis schokari\n– Pul-e Khishti Mosque (Kabul)\n– Pul-e-Charkhi prison\n– Puli Khumri\n– Purchaman District\n– Purdah\n– Purple heron\n– Pusht Rod District\n– Pusht-e-Koh District\n– Pushto literature\n\n– Qabili Palau\n– Qais Abdur Rashid\n– Qaisrani\n– Qala i Naw District\n– Qalat (Zabul)\n– Qawm\n– Qutaibah bin Muslim\n\n– Rabatak inscription\n– Rabbah bar Nahmani\n– Radio Free Afghanistan\n– Radio Kabul\n– Radio Shariat\n– Rafi Ud-Daulat\n– Rafi Ul-Darjat\n– Rahija\n– Rahimullah Yusufzai\n– Rahman Baba\n– Rahmatullah Raufi\n– Rais\n– Rangeen Dadfar Spanta\n– Rangin Dadfar Spanta\n– Rasool Sayyaf\n– Rava\n– Ravan A. G. Farhâdi\n– Rawze-e-Sharif (Mazari Sharif)\n– Rebab\n– Reforms of Amanullah Khan and civil war\n– Reigns of Nadir Shah and Zahir Shah\n– Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan\n– Rhahzadh\n– Rind (tribe)\n– Robert D. McChesney\n– Rodat District\n– Rohilla\n– Roman Catholicism in Afghanistan\n– Roman relations with the Parthians and Sassanids\n– Roshan (telco)\n– Roshan (Telecom)\n– Roshaniya\n– Rostam Farrokhzād\n– Rulers of Kabul\n– Rulers of Peshawar\n– Russian tortoise\n– Ruy Gonzáles de Clavijo\n\n– Saba TV Network\n– Sabzawar\n– Sabzvari\n– Sabzwar\n– Sadozai (Pastun tribe)\n– Safdar Tawakoli\n– Safed Koh\n– Safid River\n– Sahibzada Abdul Qayyum Khan\n– Said Tayeb Jawad\n– Saka\n– Sakan Shah\n– Salajeet\n– Salang Pass\n– Salang Tunnel\n– Salang Tunnel fire\n– Salarzai\n– Salim Saifullah Khan\n– Salwar kameez\n– Samangan Province\n– Samanid\n– Samma (tribe)\n– Sanai\n– Sandal, Afghanistan\n– Sangin District\n– Sangin\n– Sanglakh Range\n– Sanjrani\n– Sapadbizes\n– Sar-e Pol (city)\n– Sar-e Pol Province\n– Saraghrar\n– Sarbans\n– Sardar Abdur Rashid Khan\n– Sardar Mohammad Hashim Khan\n– Sardar Shah Mahmud Khan\n– Sardar\n– Sarkash\n– Sarobi\n– Sasanian Family Tree\n– Sasooli\n– Sassanid architecture\n– Sassanid army\n– Sassanid Empire\n– Sassanid music\n– Sayed Jafar Naderi\n– Sayed Jaffar\n– Sayed Rahmatullah Hashemi\n– Sebük Tigin\n– Second Turkish-Hephthalite War\n– Sediq Afghan\n– Shabdiz\n– Shah Alam II\n– Shah Jahan III\n– Shah Jahan\n– Shah Rukh (Timurid dynasty)\n– Shah-Do Shamshira Mosque (Kabul city)\n– Shah-i-Kot Valley\n– Shahanshah\n– Shahbaz Khan Bugti\n– Shahi\n– Shahnawaz Tanai\n– Shahrbanu\n– Shahrbaraz\n– Shaima Rezayee\n– Shak\n– Shaka I\n– Shambhani\n– Shamshad TV\n– Shapur I\n– Shapur II\n– Shapur III\n– Sharbat Gula\n– Sheberghan\n– Sher Alam Ibrahimi\n– Sher Ali Khan\n– Sher Berinj\n– Sher Shah Suri\n– Sherzad District\n– Shib Koh District\n– Shibarghan\n– Shighnan\n– Shilmani\n– Shinwar District\n– Shinwari tribe\n– Shirani\n– Shirin\n– Shkin\n– Sholgara District\n– Sholgara\n– Shughni language\n– Shuhada District\n– Shuja Shah Durrani\n– Shumashti language\n– Sibghatullah Mojaddedi\n– Siddiq Barmak\n– Singesar\n– Siruzkoh\n– Six-plus-two nations\n– Sogdiana\n– Soviet–Afghan War\n– Spahbod\n– Sperah\n– Spin Boldak District\n– Spin Boldak\n– Spinzar\n– Subdivisions of Afghanistan\n– Sulayman ibn Abd al-Malik\n– Sultan Ali Keshtmand\n– Suri (Pashtun)\n– Suristan\n– Surkh Rod District\n– Swati\n– Syed Ahmad Shaheed\n– Syed Ishay Ghalani\n\n– Tabar\n– Tajbeg Palace\n– Tajiks\n– Tajuddin Elduz\n– Takhar Province\n– Takht-i-Suleiman\n– Takur Ghar\n– Taliban insurgency\n– Taliban\n– Talpur\n– Tandoori masala\n– Tangshewi language\n– Taq-e Bostan\n– Tareen\n– Tarin Kowt\n– Tarkani\n– Tarnak Farms\n– Task Force Uruzgan\n– The Afghan Street Working Children and New Approach (ASCHIANA)\n– The Bahlikas\n– The Bookseller of Kabul\n– The Great Game\n– The Turkish-Hephthalite War\n– Third battle of Panipat\n– Timeline of the history of Afghanistan\n– Timur Shah Durrani\n– Timur\n– Timurid Dynasty\n– Tirich Mir\n– Tokharistan\n– Tolo TV\n– Tora Bora\n– Tora Ghar District\n– Trans-Afghanistan Pipeline\n– Transoxiana\n– Transport in Afghanistan\n– Trapelus agilis\n– Treaty of Gandamak\n– Treaty of Rawalpindi\n– Tregami language\n– Turangzai\n– Turkmen language\n– Turkmen people\n– Tuzk-e-Jahangiri\n\n– Uar\n– Ulugh Beg\n– Umar Abdullah Al Kunduzi\n– Umar II\n– Umar Khel\n– Umarzai\n– Umayyads\n– Umrani\n– Unai Pass\n– UNHCR Afghan repatriation programs\n– United Nations Assistance Mission for Afghanistan\n– United Nations General Assembly Resolution 37/37\n– United Nations Good Offices Mission in Afghanistan and Pakistan\n– United States Ambassador to Afghanistan\n– University of Parwan\n– US-Afghanistan relations\n– Ustad Mohammad Hashem Cheshti\n– Ustarana\n– Uzbek language\n– Uzbeks\n– Uzbek\n\n– Vahriz\n– Vakak Group\n– Varanus griseus\n– Vashishka\n– Vasi-vari language\n– Vasudeva I\n– Vasudeva II\n– Vice and Virtue Ministry\n– Vida Samadzai\n– Vima Kadphises\n– Vima Takto\n- Visa policy of Afghanistan\n\n– Wakhan Corridor\n– Wakhan\n– Wakhi language\n– Wakhi people\n– Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil\n– Wali Khan Amin Shah\n– War in Afghanistan (2001–present)\n– War rugs\n– Wardak Province\n– Wardak tribe\n– Wasef Bakhtari\n– Washir District\n– Water supply and sanitation in Afghanistan - Wazir (tribe)\n– Waziri language\n\n– Yadigar Muhammad\n– Yahya Maroofi\n– Yazdegerd I\n– Yazdegerd II\n– Yazdgerd III\n– Yazid I\n– Yazid II\n– Yazid III\n– Yegobi District\n– Yousafzai\n– Yuezhi\n– Yunus Qanuni\n– Yusaf Khel\n– Yusuf Khan and Sherbano\n– Yusuf Khattak\n– Yusuf Nooristani\n\n– Zablon Simintov\n– Zabul Province\n– Zabulistan\n– Zaimukhts\n– Zalmay Khalilzad\n– Zaman Shah Durrani\n– Zamindawar\n– Zaranj\n– Zazi\n– Zebak\n– Zhari District\n– Zorkul\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21870609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21870609", "title": "Index of Romania-related articles", "text": "Index of Romania-related articles\n\nTopics related to Romania (sorted alphabetically) include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4119348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4119348", "title": "John Kirtland Wright", "text": "John Kirtland Wright\n\nJohn Kirtland Wright (1891–1969) was an American geographer, notable for his cartography, geosophy, and study of the history of geographical thought. He was the son of classical scholar John Henry Wright and novelist Mary Tappan Wright, and the brother of legal scholar and utopian novelist Austin Tappan Wright. He married Katharine McGiffert Jan. 21, 1921 in New York, N.Y. They had three children: Austin McGiffert Wright, Gertrude Huntington McPherson, and Mary Wolcott Toynbee.\n\nHaving completed a PhD in history at Harvard University, in 1920 Wright was employed as librarian by the American Geographical Society; between the years of 1920 and 1956 he also served as an AGS editor, personal academic contributor, and eventually director. As a result of his prolific academic and professional life, three main themes have emerged in John K. Wright’s published works. These include: the overlapping of academic disciplines (mainly history) with geography, the power of the mind and the supernatural realm in creating subjectivity in geographic research, and the importance of sharing academic knowledge.\n\n While at one point the discipline of geography ignored the influence of subjectivity in human and physical patterns, John Kirtland Wright brought to the forefront the significance of the mind and the imagination in affecting scientific research. Specifically, he stressed the duality of both the mind’s reality and of mental, often transcendental, images. Included in this arena of study were his interests in geographical cosmogony and cosmography, which pertained to the theological realm of the divine, “God’s invisible creation,” and the emotional bonds between people and places, which he then compared to the physical realm of land surface, climate, and cartography (Wright 1928).\n\nWright was highly interested in the history of geography and the importance of accurate geographic archival records. He discovered and documented the influences of various religious perspectives on geography, with a very keen interest in Gothic and medieval representations that signified both divine and earthly geographic beauty (Wright 1965). In addition, he wrote prolifically on the Greek and Roman geographic influences, largely pertaining to the fifteenth- century map of the world by Giovanni Leardo (Wright,AGS,1928). This was the second oldest map that was given to the AGS in 1906, dated in the 15th century. Wright’s historic and cartographic fascination was sparked by the unusual, detailed features of the map, including a calendar encompassing the center image, and by the concept it depicted of the earth’s surface before the actual discovery of America; Leardo’s known world includes Asia, Africa, the Mediterranean, and Europe. Greek and Roman sources were used for the making of the map, specifically including Greek notions that the earth existed as a flat disk. The document lacks the evocative drawings seen in many other medieval maps that were primarily used to fill blank map space (drawings mostly of animals.) Lastly, Leardo features Jerusalem as the city center (Wright, AGS, 1928). Ultimately, Wright indicates that the blurring of the fields of history and geography has much significance, as each subject relies on the other for accuracy (Wright, Henry Holt, 1928.) After retiring as director from the American Geographical Society, Wright continued his quest for historic elucidation by writing on the history of the Society and its connection to the development of geography (Light 1950).\nWright coined the term choropleth map in 1938, although the mapping technique itself was first used by Charles Dupin in 1826. Wright cautioned against the use of choropleth maps, instead espousing the virtues of the dasymetric map. Nine years later, in 1947, Wright introduced the notion of geosophy, `the study of geographical knowledge from any or all points of view. To geography what historiography is to history, it deals with the nature and expression of geographical knowledge both past and present' (Wright 1947).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57823454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57823454", "title": "Klooster (surname)", "text": "Klooster (surname)\n\nKlooster is a Dutch toponymic surname meaning \"monastery, cloister\". Among variant forms are \"ten Klooster\", \"Van Clooster\", \"van der Klooster\", and \"van ('t) Klooster\", each meaning \"at/from (the) monastery\". People with these surnames include:\n\n"}
{"id": "56519531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56519531", "title": "Larkya La", "text": "Larkya La\n\nLarkya La is one of the longest pass in Nepal Himalaya, situated at 5125 m above the sea level. It locates in between Dharmasala and Bhimtang when trekkers would be doing Around Manaslu Trek.\n"}
{"id": "6126251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6126251", "title": "List of Azores Airlines destinations", "text": "List of Azores Airlines destinations\n\nThis is a list of the airports served by the Portuguese airline Azores Airlines (as of April 2016):\n"}
{"id": "31757598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31757598", "title": "List of airlines of Vanuatu", "text": "List of airlines of Vanuatu\n\nThis is a list of airlines currently operating in Vanuatu.\n\n"}
{"id": "317150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317150", "title": "List of airports by IATA code: Y", "text": "List of airports by IATA code: Y\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57219670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57219670", "title": "List of cathedrals in Cape Verde", "text": "List of cathedrals in Cape Verde\n\nThis is a list of cathedrals in Cape Verde.\n\nRoman Catholic cathedrals:\n\n"}
{"id": "34034632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34034632", "title": "List of colonial governors and administrators of Anguilla", "text": "List of colonial governors and administrators of Anguilla\n\nThere have been many colonial governors of Anguilla. The official title of the position began as Deputy Governor of Anguilla, which transitioned to Chief Magistrate of Anguilla, and then became the current title of Governor of Anguilla.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "875066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875066", "title": "List of colonial governors of the Comoros", "text": "List of colonial governors of the Comoros\n\nFor continuation after independence, \"see: \"List of heads of state of the Comoros\n\n"}
{"id": "11485988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11485988", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: I", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: I\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10386787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10386787", "title": "List of trolleybus routes in Bucharest", "text": "List of trolleybus routes in Bucharest\n\nThis is a list of the 15 trolleybus routes running in Bucharest, Romania, operated by the city's public transport company, STB as of July 2015. For more information about Bucharest's trolleybus network, see Trolleybuses in Bucharest. Routes marked with use wheelchair-accessible low-floor vehicles (Irisbus Citelis) on some services, however the Ikarus 415T trolleys are more common.\n\nThere are also other routes not running due to ongoing works on the M4 and M5 metro lines.\n\nTemporary Suspended lines :\n\n71 : Valea Argesului - Gara de Nord. Its place is taken by 93 (previously Gara de Nord - Valea Ialomitei) Suspended due to underground works. 90 and 91 were rerouted from Valea Ialomitei to Valea Argesului respectively to Depoul Alexandria. \n\n92 : Vasile Parvan - Universitate - Barajul Dunarii. Suspended due to tram line works in Titan and road rehabilitation . Probably its Barajul Dunarii end of line will be changed.\n\n97 : Strand Straulesti - Calea Grivitei - Gara de Nord - Sfintii Voievozi. Suspended due to M4 underground works. Replaced by bus line 697 from Strand Straulesti - Pod Constanta - Mezeș. From Pajura routes 65 and 86 are continuing it's from Pod Constanta onwards until Sfintii Voievozi, except 86 which goes further.\n\n"}
{"id": "9292231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9292231", "title": "List of urban agglomerations in Africa", "text": "List of urban agglomerations in Africa\n\nThis is a list of the largest urban agglomerations in Africa. Figures are from the United Nations World Urbanization Prospects report, as well as from citypopulation.de. Figures for administrative areas are also given.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3159401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3159401", "title": "Monti Sabatini", "text": "Monti Sabatini\n\nThe Monti Sabatini is a geologic region in Lazio, central Italy, a remnant of intense volcanism which started ca. 600,000 years ago, mainly with pyroclastic and maar forming eruptions which continued until 100,000 years ago. The mountains are part of the Lazio's Anti-Apennines. Included between the Monti Sabatini is the Lake Bracciano, which is a volcanotectonic depression formed about 3.7 Ma, and the Lake Martignano. The sedimentary base of the Sabatini complex lies buried under of volcanic ash and rocks.\n\nThe highest point is Monte Rocca Romana (a postcaldera stratocone), at . \n\nOther mountains in the area include Monti della Tolfa, Monte Soratte, and more southwards, by the Monti Cornicolani.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "37320813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37320813", "title": "Mount Nabi Yunis", "text": "Mount Nabi Yunis\n\nNabi Yunis is the highest point of the Palestinian territories, with an altitude of 1,030 metres (3,350 ft). It is located in the town of Halhul, Hebron Governorate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1733084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1733084", "title": "Mount Olympus (Cyprus)", "text": "Mount Olympus (Cyprus)\n\nOlympus, or Chionistra, ( or ) at , is the highest point in Cyprus. It is located in the Troodos Mountains of Cyprus. Mount Olympus peak and the \"Troodos Square\" fall under the territory of Platres in Limassol District. A British long range radar currently operates at Mount Olympus' peak.\nThe Mount Olympus Ski resort consists of the Sun Valley and North Face areas. Each area has its own chairlifts and runs.\n\nWriting in the late first century BC or first century AD, the geographer Strabo reported that on one of its promontories was a temple to Aphrodite of the Heights (), which women were forbidden to enter.\n\nThere are 4 ski slopes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34593148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34593148", "title": "Nganza", "text": "Nganza\n\nNganza is a commune of the city of Kananga in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n"}
{"id": "3550633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3550633", "title": "Ontario tobacco belt", "text": "Ontario tobacco belt\n\nThe Ontario tobacco belt is the tobacco-growing region located in Norfolk County and eastern Elgin County in Southwestern Ontario, Canada. The region is close to the north shore of Lake Erie, with a moderate climate and sandy, silt-loam soils that are well-suited to a wide variety of crops.\n\nHigh-value horticultural crops thrive in this region, including 90% of all tobacco grown in Canada. Members of Parliament elected to ridings in the Ontario tobacco belt have strong pro-tobacco policies in addition to other policies in the interest of their rural constituents. Historically, the Ontario tobacco belt is composed of the rural area immediately surrounding the towns of Delhi, Aylmer and Tillsonburg. Additional tobacco farms can be found in Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and near Joliette, Quebec.\n\nUnited Empire Loyalists introduced the tobacco crop after fleeing northwards from their established farms following the American Revolution. However, the first official tobacco plot wasn't planted in Norfolk County until 1920.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 20th century to the 1960s, the coastal portion of the Ontario tobacco belt was threatened with desertification. Only by planting coniferous seedlings was the desertification finally stopped. More than 25% of Norfolk County is considered to be forested.\n\nThe Ontario tobacco belt would experience its economic zenith during the 1950s and 1960s. During those decades, most communities in the Ontario belt (as well as their residents) were reasonably affluent from the economic gains that the tobacco farms made. The song \"Tillsonburg\" by classic country music performer Stompin' Tom Connors would capture the hard working spirit of the Ontario tobacco belt during the middle of the 20th century. A devastating tornado that started in nearby Woodstock would devastate several tobacco farms in the tobacco belt back during the late 1970s. Recent tornadoes have not been as severe as the one that occurred in the summer of 1979, even when taking global warming into account.\n\nWhile Canadian tobacco farmers (especially those in the Ontario tobacco belt) see themselves as \"innocent victims\" of government tobacco regulations, most of them started farming after provincial governments throughout Canada began introducing policies aimed at limiting tobacco consumption. As the older farmers retire, their children will most likely seek different career paths. Tobacco farms would eventually be sold to their neighbours; this has a domino effect. This domino effect ultimately results in fewer farmers having more acreage creating a further sense of economic inequality in the area.\n\nThe longstanding dominance of tobacco in the region has been on the wane in recent years. In 2002, politicians from the Ontario tobacco belt opposed several anti-smoking measures, causing a non-smoking group to give the Ontario government a failing grade at that time. The tobacco belt members of Provincial Parliament were responsible for scaling back a proposed tobacco tax from $10/carton to $5/carton. They failed to implement a public smoking ban (until the Smoke Free Ontario law was passed in 2006). On August 8, 2008, tobacco farmers in this region were given $300 million to buy out their entire tobacco quota. All of the money was raised from a $1,000,000,000 fine against Imperial Tobacco and Rothman's Benson & Hedges. After receiving the money, farmers that signed the buy-out are permitted to grow any crop except for tobacco; switching to raising livestock like cattle, poultry, or pigs is completely legal under this plan.\n\nOnly about one thousand farm families still produce tobacco in the entire belt. Motivation to cease tobacco farming has been accelerated by health issues and high tobacco taxes. Farmers who never agreed to the tobacco buy-out may grow as much tobacco as their farmland allows through a special tobacco growing licence that was created on the week of May 15, 2009. Relatives of the farmers (either blood relatives or relatives through marriage) who agreed to the buy-out can still grow tobacco on the original farmer's land with a tobacco growing licence. However, this right does not extend to the farmer himself who can still manage the farm but not own it in his name. Farmers must also find a company that will buy his product; otherwise he cannot grow tobacco until next year. Attempts by local youth sports leagues to prohibit the usage of tobacco amongst players, coaches, referees, and even spectators has been successful in a region that was once dominated by the massive profits of Big Tobacco.\n\nCurrently, Tillsonburg is under a strict bylaw aimed at reducing levels of outdoor second-hand smoke. This by-law was passed on May 14, 2012 by Tillsonburg Town council; prohibiting the usage of tobacco and tobacco-related products within of certain buildings intended for families and/or children.\n\nBy 2020, the Ontario tobacco belt will become the \"Ontario horticultural centre\" because of its abundance of water. Other reasons for the sudden transformation of this region include proximity to urban markets (e.g., Hamilton, Kitchener, London) and a sandy soil that favours horticultural crops. European farmers will boost the average cost of farmland to $570,000 by the year 2016 due to their overspending; which would essentially give them a monopoly on the local farming business over aspiring Canadian-born farmers. An increasing number of established farmers in the area call this tax hike \"unfair;\" as they perceive themselves to be paying 75% less for property taxes than people who live on residential properties nearby. While beef production has declined in the Ontario tobacco belt in the past 20 years, the amount of pork and chicken products that are grown in the region have increased slightly. The transition from conventional farming to greenhouses have resulted in fewer \"field\" crops and a greater amount of the \"hothouse\" variety.\n\nShould the sea levels rise by , the Ontario tobacco belt would not be affected by flooding. However, it may be affected by droughts as a by-product of the dislocation of available fresh water and may be forced to rely on desalinated salt water piped in from the Eastern United States. Constructing the proper infrastructure to carry the water hundreds of miles away would take considerable manpower along with significant economic costs and an unprecedented level of cooperation from multiple federal, state/provincial, and municipal governments. Another possible outcome of the global climate change would bring back desertification into the Lake Erie portion of the tobacco belt. Any grasslands in the area would become brown and eventually become sand; increasing in dryness the further the piece of land is from a source of fresh water. A regional bout of famine would occur if the desertification continued to spread inland and threatened the local crops.\n\nThe price of gasoline in the Ontario tobacco belt already exceeds $1.20/litre ($4.80/US gallon); making it critical for research agencies to find a commonly affordable non-oil based fuel. Even if ethanol fuel was economically feasible for consumers, the local climate is unable to sustain year-round temperatures of that is needed for optimal engine performance. American farmers have finally admitted to their experiments with ethanol fuel technology to being complete failures after the 2012 drought wiped out most of the corn needed to create the ethanol fuel. Wide-scale usage of ethanol fuel outside motorsports and niche motorized vehicles may never come into fruition.\n\nHydrogen fuel promises to provide an alternative fuel product for local motorized vehicle drivers once it has been accepted in urban areas where mass transit is prevalent. According to the United States Energy Information Administration, hydrogen fuel is considered to be just as safe as unleaded petroleum gasoline when it comes to unwanted explosions. Fuel with hydrogen is also on par with compressed natural gas; which can be found in Brazil in lieu of conventional unleaded (petrol) gasoline.\n\nAs school attendance continues to decline throughout the Ontario tobacco belt, one of the solutions would be to close down Simcoe Composite School and Waterford District High School while keeping Valley Heights Secondary and Delhi District Secondary Schools open. The students from the Simcoe high school and the Waterford high school would be consolidated into a giant secular high school spanning somewhere in Norfolk County. Both VHSS and DDSS have the government funding and student enrolment figures to remain open on an indefinite basis.\n\nReducing the number of high schools in the Ontario tobacco belt would alleviate the burden of a rapidly aging population from paying extra property taxes during their time of financial need. The buildings that currently house SCS and WDHS can either be reconfigured into housing, corporate space, possible industry sites, or even demolished at taxpayers' cost. Online education through the Internet could allow teachers to operate and to retain some form of employment; even if the building itself had to close sometime in the distant future and the school had to \"operate\" on a remote Internet server. All public secondary schools that currently serve students from the Ontario tobacco belt will eventually have to be converted into \"Internet-only\" establishments. These establishments would allow anyone between the ages of 14 and 21 with a broadband Internet connection and fluency in the English language to \"attend\" a high school in the Ontario tobacco belt region. The core curriculum would be taught for students in grade 9 through grade 12 in addition to Canadian culture, laws, geography, and history; helping people acquire a Canadian-style secondary school education and facilitating their way to acquiring Canadian citizenship.\n\nMost of the Ontario tobacco belt also belongs to the Green Energy Hub; an environmental region in Southern Ontario that is dedicated to creating \"green\" jobs through solar panels, wind turbines, and recycled rain water. Delhi, once considered to be the \"heart of the Ontario tobacco belt,\" historically had transient adolescent workers that could find employment quickly. The local police force started to take a less tolerant stand towards these job seekers in the later years when they started to threaten the employment of local workers.\n\nAs urbanization continues to claim the Niagara Peninsula, displaced farmers will come to the Ontario tobacco belt seeking acres of land to farm. European farmers have bought farmland in massive amounts throughout the course of the Great Recession; fleeing the bleak prospect of farming land between airstrips in their native Europe. Their expertise in growing non-tobacco crops will forever change the economy of communities like Tillsonburg and Delhi. Tobacco labourers will easily transition over into their new jobs in horticulture labour. Most of the jobs will involve heavy labour and no additional skills would be needed for the Jamaican and Mexican transient labourers who \"reside\" in the tobacco belt region from March to November. Farm operators within the Ontario tobacco belt are 55 years old on average as of December 14, 2012 because operating a farm consists of long hours, intensive physical labour and little pay. Despite the recent economic woes, young people find greater job security working at urban office jobs than operating a rural farm in either Norfolk or Oxford County.\n\nFactories once operated in the Ontario tobacco belt; especially in the town of Simcoe. During the 42 years that it was operating, the metal-can manufacturing plant owned by The American Can Company employed many local residents. The Canadian Canning Company, which had been in operation in Simcoe since the 1870s, was a primary customer for some of the products of the American Can Plant, and was a producer of canned fruit, vegetable, and processed prepared foodstuffs, such as soup. This processing plant relied heavily on fruit and vegetables produced locally.\nIn 1991, the Robinson Street manufacturing plants closed. The shutdown of the plants can be partially attributed to the recession of the early 1990s.\n\nDelhi Industries and Delhi Foundry once offered non-tobacco jobs to Delhi. They both eventually closed due to the changing Canadian economy that emphasized more on service jobs than jobs in traditional manufacturing fields. Delhi Industries lasted until the midst of the Canadian economic recession when it closed down on March 2010; terminating 61 Canadian jobs on a permanent basis. They once made fans and blowers for industrial operations in the region. 2600 people have officially joined the Norfolk County workforce between June 2012 and June 2013. Businesses have been expanding throughout Norfolk County again; often hiring people two at a time. Innovative business running measures are also improving the quality of life for Norfolk County residents who are members of the workforce. The economy of the Greater Toronto Area along with the rest of the world may become further interconnected with the changing economy of the Ontario tobacco belt.\n\nThe well-established banks are removing their presence away from the rural communities of the Ontario tobacco belt at a fast pace. Places like Service Ontario and the Backus Heritage Conservation Area may have to shutter their doors after the departure of CIBC; leading to an almost-immediate loss of jobs within the tobacco belt.\n\nThe traditional climate for most of the Ontario tobacco belt has witnessed temperatures as low of in January and as high as in July. The winter of 1975 was the only unusually mild winter in the Ontario tobacco belt from 1877 to 1977.\n\nEven the traditional climate was considered to be inhospitable for some as the threat of desertification raged on from the early 20th century through the 1960s. Only by planting coniferous seedlings did the Ontario tobacco belt started to become a more friendly climate for tobacco production.\n\nHistorically, the hottest temperatures in the Ontario tobacco belt were recorded on July 9, 1936 with Delhi registering temperatures up to .\n\nAn overnight frost in the early fall of 1999 damaged the unharvested crops of one hundred local tobacco farms; Norfolk County, Brant County, and Oxford County were affected in the disaster. An official reading of from the Delhi weather station recorded on July 7, 2012 has seen rising temperatures become a nearly unstoppable trend in the Ontario tobacco belt.\n\nWhen temperatures in the Ontario tobacco belt manage to reach a high of beyond , overall crop yields can be reduced as much as 1% per day; leading to potential crop failures months ahead of the proper harvest schedule. The number of days that the Ontario tobacco belt spends in temperatures in excess of are rising due to shifting weather patterns. Within the next 20 years, the industrial character of Norfolk, Brant and Oxford counties might have to change in order to adapt to the difficulties that future farmers will face concerning the well-being of their crops.\n\nHowever, with the summer temperatures of 2009 having been the coldest since 1816, the number of successful tobacco and food crops were fewer and more expensive because of fears of an early frost that never quite surfaced in 2009. The same effect was felt months after the severe December 22–28 blizzard with the subsequent blizzards on February 5–6, 2010 and on February 25–27 of that same year. There were two outbreaks of blizzards that occurred in this area between January 25 and February 2, 2011. After the start of 2012, the effects of the March 2012 North American heat wave has rendered virtually all snowfall in this area non-existent for the first time since the winter of 1994-95. The heat wave has also shattered all of the temperature records throughout the Ontario tobacco belt along with the rest of Southern Canada and parts of North America. This heat wave has extended itself into the summer months. During August 2012, only parts of South America and Northern Australia experienced temperatures that were cooler than usual. The heat wave officially ended in early November 2012 when local temperatures plunged below .\n\nBetween December 2012 and April 2013, temperatures managed to return to normal seasonal levels for the Ontario tobacco belt along with most of Ontario. While May and June 2013 has seen temperatures that were slightly above normal, July 2013 has seen the return of extremely warm temperatures. Temperatures did not return to normal seasonal patterns until the middle of October 2013. However, the 2013–14 North American cold wave victimized Norfolk County from January to mid-April 2014 with unusually frequent cases of blizzards and snowstorms. An expected heat wave for the summer months of 2014 never emerged, meaning that temperatures in the Ontario tobacco belt have remained close to normal.\n\nThe months of April and May 2015 saw temperatures that went directly from being unseasonably cold to unseasonably warm and back to unseasonably cold without any moderate weather in between. Cloudy days with high winds dominate the colder days while the unseasonably warm weather brought about threats of thunderstorms during the evening hours.\n\nThe temperatures from June to early September 2015 were seen as unusually warm and/or muggy. Thunderstorms and essential rainfall was deemed to be few and far in-between; with normal seasonal temperatures returning around late September of that year.\n\nThe winter of 2016 experienced a lack of snowfall not seen since the winter of 2012. While the summer months of 2016 were as equally dry and hot as the summer of 2015, it was considerably more windy in 2016 than it was in 2015. The dry summer affected everything from trees to wildlife to the water levels for Lake Erie. Rain finally returned around October and November 2016 when the cold front needed to produce precipitation was finally created in order to fight the dominant warm front.\n\nCompared to 1998, tobacco farming is down by 60% and falling. It is possible that this tobacco industry will never recover and disappear forever. Calls to action by local residents to diversify the tobacco belt into other industries have been slow in being answered by Norfolk County council. Diversification into several different types of products could help the region absorb the ups and downs of a changing economy. The winter hardiness and soil requirements of lavender are equivalent to that of tobacco; meaning that an \"Ontario horticultural belt\" could see the economy revolve around lavender plants rather than tobacco plants.\n\nTobacco farmers in this region have to deal with the same issues that haunt European tobacco farmers; farmers are told to grow different crops or go out of business. However, it is difficult to adjust to the changing supply and demand when most farmers are in heavy debt. The economic fallout from the Canadian economic recession also played in role in declining tobacco sales and farmers going deeper into debt. There are also good opportunities for wineries, peanut farms, poultry farms, and apiaries to fill the void that tobacco leaves behind economically. Most of these alternative crops are either grown or raised in Norfolk County; that is where the cash crush of a declining tobacco market is affecting the most people.\n\nWind generators have been used extensively in the Port Rowan area and in the southwestern part of Norfolk County (particularly near Lake Erie). Port Rowan has seen some wind generators installed in the northern end of their community near their active adult community; but were dismantled after the local people starting protesting. Most of them are seen near the communities of Clear Creek, Jacksonburg, Houghton Centre, and Hemlock. Port Dover (on the easternmost part of the Ontario tobacco belt) has been declared to be the site of future wind generators. Norfolk County has banned the placement of new wind turbines after becoming a \"willing host\" for them back in 2003. One of the council members were worried about Norfolk County becoming \"industrialized\" and \"unnatural.\" Many leaders in Norfolk County envision the surrounding area as being an agricultural hub for Southern Ontario even by the middle of the 22nd century.\n\nBy harvesting the local wind energy, it is assumed that electricity could be created closer to home without using fossil fuels and without polluting the atmosphere or the water that people need to live. However, one of the side effects has been the unexplained killing of the bald eagle species that is being rehabilitated in the area. Wind energy supporters have stated in the past that fossil fuel-based power plants affect the birds in a less humane manner.\n\nThe cost of the wind generator devices (approximately $4 million CAD per unit) has caused the short-term price of hydroelectric energy to increase as it became more expensive to deliver the needed energy due to complications with the electricity grid. While rent has remained very cheap (approximately 870 Canadian dollars a month) by global standards in Brantford, the rising cost of electricity has made the typical restaurant meal in that city to be very expensive (with the cost of a meal between 10.50 Canadian dollars a person for lunch to 67.50 Canadian dollars a person for an elegant dinner); particularly when compared to other communities within Southern Ontario.\n\nThe conventional Ontario electricity grid had become dependent on fossil fuels, transformers, and nuclear energy for decades before the wind turbines started appearing. However, these concerns are negated by wind energy proponents who say that the turbines could lead to electricity price reductions through lower natural gas prices (due to the reductions in natural gas demand).\n\nThe use of fossil fuels is becoming less frequent amongst both rural and urban people as it becomes more expensive. Dwindling oil supplies (that will be completely diminished by 2057) are leaving humanity little choice but to invest in wind and solar generators. Worldwide protests against the development of new oil fields are also bringing up the price of fossil fuels. Alternative fuels (like wind energy from the nearby Erie Shores Wind Farm and all solar energy projects done in this area in the future) will eventually relegate the use of fossil fuels to the Middle East and to developing countries. These alternatives will be cheaper and cleaner than the energy forms that rely on fossil fuels. The increasingly frequent use of alternative clean fuels (such as natural gas, wind, and solar) could help control pollution from fossil fuel use, and mitigate global warming.\n"}
{"id": "6723106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6723106", "title": "Orders, decorations, and medals of the Republic of China", "text": "Orders, decorations, and medals of the Republic of China\n\nThis is a list of orders, decorations and medals of the Republic of China, usually known as Taiwan after 1949. This list is sorted in order of precedence of the highest grade of each award on a full military dress. The Honour Sabre is a special case and is listed separately under \"Military orders\", as per its official classification by the Ministry of National Defense.\n\nPrior to the modern system, the Republican government established numerous orders that are now defunct.\n\nAfter the founding of the Republic, the Nanjing Provisional Government established the following orders in 1912:\n\nThe Beijing government re-established the honour system with the following orders:\n\nVarious warlords also issued their own orders and commemorative medals.\n\n"}
{"id": "16278402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278402", "title": "Outline of Anguilla", "text": "Outline of Anguilla\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Anguilla:\n\nAnguilla – one of the most northerly of the Leeward Islands in the Lesser Antilles, lying east of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and directly north of Saint Martin. Anguilla has become a popular tax haven, having no capital gains, estate, profit or other forms of direct taxation on either individuals or corporations.\n\n\nGeography of Anguilla\n\n\n\nRegions of Anguilla\n\nList of ecoregions in Anguilla\n\nAdministrative divisions of Anguilla\n\nMunicipalities of Anguilla\n\nDemographics of Anguilla\n\nPolitics of Anguilla\n\nGovernment of Anguilla\n\n\nCourt system of Anguilla\n\nForeign relations of Anguilla\n\nAnguilla is a member of:\n\nLaw of Anguilla\n\nMilitary of Anguilla\n\nLocal government in Anguilla\n\nHistory of Anguilla\n\nCulture of Anguilla\n\n\nSports in Anguilla\n\nEconomy of Anguilla\n\nEducation in Anguilla\n\nAnguilla\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "412363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412363", "title": "Parishes of Andorra", "text": "Parishes of Andorra\n\nAndorra consists of seven communities known as parishes (, singularparròquia). Until relatively recently, it had only six parishes; the seventh, Escaldes-Engordany, was created in 1978.\n\nAndorra la Vella is the capital of Andorra. Some parishes have a further territorial subdivision; Ordino, La Massana and Sant Julià de Lòria are subdivided into \"quarts\" (quarters), while Canillo is subdivided into 10 \"veïnats\" (neighborhoods). Those mostly coincide with villages, which are found in all parishes.\n\nEach parish has its own elected mayor who is the nominal head of the local government known as a \"comú\" in Catalan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1097746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1097746", "title": "Premier of the Cayman Islands", "text": "Premier of the Cayman Islands\n\nThe Premier of the Cayman Islands is the political leader and head of government. The post of Premier in the Cayman Islands is the equivalent to Chief Minister or Prime Minister in other British Overseas Territories. It is the highest political level that can be attained within the British overseas territory. Prior to 2009, the position was known as Leader of Government Business.\n\nThe Premier and Cabinet (consisting of all the most senior ministers) are collectively accountable for their policies and actions to Queen Elizabeth II, to the Legislative Assembly, to their political party and ultimately to the electorate.\n\nThe current Premier is Alden McLaughlin, since 29 May 2013.\n\nUntil 2001 the position had no official recognition, but it was formalized by an Order of the British Government in July 2001, as the Leader of Government Business along with the Leader of the Opposition. Further constitutional amendments in 2009 modified the name to Premier.\n\n\nCayman Islands Government Portal:\n"}
{"id": "53351715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53351715", "title": "Present day Mars habitability analogue environments on Earth", "text": "Present day Mars habitability analogue environments on Earth\n\nPresent day Mars habitability analogue environments on Earth are environments that share potentially relevant astrobiological conditions with Mars. These include sites that are analogues of potential subsurface habitats, and deep subsurface habitats. For analogues more generally see Terrestrial Analogue Sites.\n\nA few places on Earth, such as the hyper-arid core of the high Atacama desert and the McMurdo dry valleys in Antarctica approach the dryness of current Mars surface conditions. In some parts of Antarctica, the only water available is in films of brine on salt / ice interfaces. There is life there, but it is rare, in low numbers, and often hidden below the surface of rocks (endoliths), making the life hard to detect. Indeed, these sites are used for testing sensitivity of future life detection instruments for Mars.\n\nOther analogues duplicate some of the conditions that may occur in particular locations on Mars. These include ice caves, the icy fumaroles of Mount Erebus, hot springs, or the sulfur rich mineral deposits of the Rio Tinto region in Spain. Other analogues include regions of deep permafrost and high alpine regions with plants and microbes adapted to aridity, cold and UV radiation with similarities to Mars conditions.\n\nThese Mars analogue environments are used for furthering the study of astrobiology. For instance, they are used for testing life detection instruments to be sent to Mars, as a source for species to be tested for their ability to survive on Mars, and as a way to study how Earth life copes in conditions that resemble conditions on Mars. They may also give us some insight into adaptations that native Mars life could use to survive.\n\nMars surface conditions are not exactly reproduced anywhere on Earth so Earth surface analogues for Mars are necessarily partial analogues. Some Earth cave and deep subsurface analogues may be more exact analogues of Mars surface conditions (apart from the levels of gravity), if similar conditions occur on Mars. Here are some of the most significant differences between Earth and Mars surface conditions, with remarks on Mars' closest analogues on Earth:\n\n\nThese partial analogues are still very useful, for instance for:\n\n\nThe Atacama desert plateau lies at an altitude of 3,000 meters and lies between the Pacific and the Andes mountains. Its Mars like features include\n\n\nThe Yungay area at the core of the Atacama desert used to be considered the driest area on Earth for more than a decade, until the discovery that Maria Elena South is drier in results published in 2015. It can go centuries without rainfall, and parts of it have been hyper-arid for 150 million years. The older regions in this area have salts that are amongst the closest analogues of salts on Mars because these regions have nitrate deposits that contain not only the usual chlorides, but also sulfates, chlorates, chromates, iodates, and perchlorates. The infrared spectra are similar to the spectra of bright soil regions of Mars.\n\nThe Yungay area has been used for testing instruments intended for future life detection missions on Mars, such as the Sample Analysis at Mars instruments for Curiosity, the Mars Organic Analyzer for ExoMars, and Solid3 for Icebreaker Life, which in 2011, in a test of its capabilities, was able to find a new \"microbial oasis\" for life two meters below the surface of the Atacama desert. It is the current testing site for the Atacama Rover Astrobiology Drilling Studies (ARADS) project to improve technology and strategies for life detection on Mars.\n\nExperiments conducted on Mars have also been successfully repeated in this region. In 2003, a group led by Chris McKay repeated the Viking Lander experiments in this region and got the same results as those of the Viking landers on Mars: decomposition of the organics by non biological processes. The samples had trace elements of organics, no DNA was recovered, and extremely low levels of culturable bacteria. This led to increased interest in the site as a Mars analogue.\n\nAlthough hardly any life, including plant or animal life, exists in this area, the Yungay area does have some microbial life, including cyanobacteria, both in salt pillars, as a green layer below the surface of rocks, and beneath translucent rocks such as quartz. The cyanobacteria in the salt pillars have the remarkable ability to take advantage of the moisture in the air at low relative humidities. They begin to photosynthesize when the relative humidity rises above the deliquescence relative humidity of salt, at 75%, presumably making use of deliquescence of the salts. Researchers have also found that cyanobacteria in these salt pillars can photosynthesize when the external relative humidity is well below this level, taking advantage of micropores in the salt pillars which raise the internal relative humidity above the external levels.\nThis site is even drier than the Yungay area. It was found through a systematic search for drier regions than Yungay in the Atacama desert, using relative humidity data loggers set up from 2008 to 2012, with the results published in 2015. The relative humidity is the same as the lowest relative humidity measured by Curiosity.\n\nA 2015 paper reported an average atmospheric relative humidity 17.3%, and soils relative humidity a constant 14% at depth of 1 meter, which corresponds to the lowest humidity measured by Curiosity on Mars. This region's maximum atmospheric relative humidity is 54.7% compared with 86.8% for the Yungay region.\n\nThe following living organisms were also found in this region:\n\nThere was no decrease in the numbers of species as the soil depth increased down to a depth of one meter, although different microbes inhabited different soil depths. There was no colonization of Gypsum, showing the extreme dryness of the site.\n\nNo archaea was detected in this region using the same methods that detected archaea in other regions of the Atacama desert. The researchers said that if this is confirmed in studies of similarly dry sites, it could mean that \"there may be adry limit for this domain of life on Earth\"\n\nThese valleys lie on the edge of the Antarctic plateau. They are kept clear of ice and snow by fast katabatic winds that blow from the plateau down through the valleys. As a result, they are amongst the coldest and driest areas in the world.\n\nThe central region of Beacon Valley is considered to be one of the best terrestrial analogues for the current conditions on Mars. There is snowdrift and limited melting around the edges and occasionally in the central region, but for the most part, moisture is only found as thin films of brine around permafrost structures. It has slightly alkaline salt rich soil.\n\nThis small pond in Antarctica, 100 meters by 300 meters, and 10 cm deep, is of great interest for studying the limits of habitability for present day life on Mars.\n\nResearch using a time lapse camera shows that it is partly fed by deliquescing salts revealing dark tracks that resemble the Recurrent Slope Lineae on Mars. The salts absorb water by deliquescence only, at times of high humidity, then flows down the slope as salty brines. These then mix with snow melt, which feeds the lake. The first part of this process may be related to the processes that form the Recurring Slope Lineae (RSLs) on Mars.\n\nIt has an exceptionally low water activity of 0.3 to 0.6. Though microbes have been cultivated from it, they have not been shown to be able to reproduce in the salty conditions present in the lake, and it is possible that they only got there through being washed in by the rare occasions of snow melt feeding the lake. If this turns out to be the case, it may possibly be the only natural water body of any size without indigenous life on the Earth. For details, see Lowest water activity level for life on Mars.\n\nThis unusual flow of melt water from below the glacier gives scientists access to an environment they could otherwise only explore by drilling (which would also risk contaminating it). The melt water source is a subglacial pool of unknown size which sometimes overflows. Biogeochemical analysis shows that the water is marine in source originally. One hypothesis is that the source may be the remains of an ancient fjord that occupied the Taylor valley in the tertiary period. The ferrous iron dissolved in the water oxidizes as the water reaches the surface, turning the water blood red.\n\nIts autotrophic bacteria metabolize sulfate and ferric ions. According to geomicrobiologist Jill Mikucki at the University of Tennessee, water samples from Blood Falls contained at least 17 different types of microbes and almost no oxygen. An explanation may be that the microbes use sulfate as a catalyst to respire with ferric ions and metabolize the trace levels of organic matter trapped with them. Such a metabolic process had never before been observed in nature. This process is of astrobiological importance as an analogue for environments below the Glaciers on Mars, if there is any liquid water there, for instance through hydrothermal melting (though none such has been discovered yet). This process is also an analogue for cryovolcanism in icy moons such as Enceladus.\n\nSubglacial environments in Antarctica need similar protection protocols to interplanetary missions.\n\nBlood Falls was used as the target for testing IceMole in November 2014. This is being developed in connection with the Enceladus Explorer (EnEx) project by a team from the FH Aachen in Germany. The test returned a clean subglacial sample from the outflow channel from Blood Falls. Ice Mole navigates through the ice by melting it, also using a driving ice screw, and using differential melting to navigate and for hazard avoidance. It is designed for autonomous navigation to avoid obstacles such as cavities and embedded meteorites, so that it can be deployed remotely on Encladus. It uses no drilling fluids, and can be sterilized to suit the planetary protection requirements as well as the requirements for subglacial exploration. The probe was sterilized to these protocols using hydrogen peroxide and UV sterilization. Also, only the tip of the probe samples the liquid water directly.\n\nAt , Qaidam Basin is the plateau with highest average elevation on the Earth. The atmospheric pressure is 50% - 60% of sea level pressures, and as a result of the thin atmosphere it has high levels of UV radiation, and large temperature swings from day to night. Also, the Himalayas to the South block humid air from India, making it hyper arid.\n\nIn the most ancient playas (Da Langtang) at the north west corner of the plateau, the evaporate salts are magnesium sulfates (sulfates are common on Mars). This combined with the Mars like conditions make it an interesting analogue of the Martian salts and salty regolith. An expedition found eight strains of halobacteria inhabiting the salts, similar to some species of Virgibacillus, Oceanobacillus, Halobacillus, and Ter-ribacillus.\n\nThe Mojave Desert is a desert within the United States which is often used for testing Mars rovers. It also has useful biological analogues for Mars.\n\n\n\nTwo sites of special interest: Colour Peak and Gypsum Hill, two sets of cold saline springs on Axel Heiberg Island that flow with almost constant temperature and flow rate throughout the year. The air temperatures are comparable to the McMurdo dry valleys, range -15 °C to -20 °C (for the McMurdo dry valleys -15 °C to -40 °C). The island is an area of thick permafrost with low precipitation, leading to desert conditions. The water from the springs has a temperature of between -4 °C and 7 °C. A variety of minerals precipitate out of the springs including gypsum, and at Colour Peak crystals of the metastable mineral ikaite (·6) which decomposes rapidly when removed from freezing water.\n\nSome of the extremophiles from these two sites have been cultured in simulated Martian environment, and it is thought that they may be able to survive in a Martian cold saline spring, if such exist.\n\nThis is another Mars analogue habitat in Axel Heiberg Island close to Colour Peak and Gypsum Hill. The frozen soil and permafrost hosts many microbial communities that are tolerant of anoxic, acid, saline and cold conditions. Most are in survival rather than colony forming mode. Colour Lake Fen is a good terrestrial analogue of the saline acidic brines that once existed in the Meridani Planum region of Mars and may possibly still exist on the martian surface. Some of the microbes found there are able to survive in Mars-like conditions.\n\n This is the largest known sulfide deposit in the world, the Iberian Pyrite Belt (IPB).\n\nMany of the extremophiles that live in these deposits are thought to survive independently of the sun. This area is rich in iron and sulfur minerals such as\n\n\nMuch of the water on Mars is permanently frozen, mixed with the rocks. So terrestrial permafrosts are a good analogue. And some of the Carnobacterium species isolated from permafrosts have the ability to survive under the conditions of the low atmospheric pressures, low temperatures and dominated anoxic atmosphere of Mars.\n\nIce caves, or ice preserved under the surface in cave systems protected from the surface conditions, may exist on Mars.\n\nThe ice caves near the summit of Mt. Erebus (Antarctica) associated with the fumaroles are dark, in a polar alpine environments starved in organics and with oxygenated hydrothermal circulation in highly reducing host rock.\n\nAs well as analogues of ice fumaroles on Mars, if they exist, they may also be useful analogues for hydrothermally heated ice caves on Mars more generally if they exist.\n\nThere are several almost enclosed ecosystems below the surface of the Earth, in cave habitats, which are especially good analogues for Mars as similar environments might exist there. And the mines give access to deep subsurface environments which turn out to be inhabited on the Earth, and may possibly exist on Mars.\n\nThe only caves found so far on Mars are lava tube caves. These are insulated to some extent from surface conditions and may retain ice also when there is none left on the surface, and may have access to chemicals such as hydrogen from serpentization to fuel chemosynthetic life. Lava tubes on Earth have microbial mats, and mineral deposits inhabited by microbes. These are being studied to help with identification of life on Mars if any of the lava tube caves there are inhabited.\n\nFirst of the terrestrial sulfur caves to be investigated as a Mars analogue for sulfur based ecosystems that could possibly exist underground also on Mars. On Earth, these form when hydrogen sulfide from below the cave meets the surface oxygenated zone. As it does so, sulfuric acid forms, and microbes accelerate the process.\n\nThe high abundance of sulfur on Mars combined with presence of ice, and trace detection of methane suggest the possibility of sulfur caves below the surface of Mars like this.\n\nThe Snottites in the toxic sulfur cave Cueva de Villa Luz flourish on Hydrogen Sulfide gas and though some are aerobes (though only needing low levels of oxygen), some of these species (e.g. Acidianus), like those that live around hydrothermal vents, are able to survive independent of a source of oxygen. So the caves may give insight into subsurface thermal systems on Mars, where caves similar to the Cueva de Villa Luz could occur.\n\n\nOpportunity found evidence for magnesium sulfates on Mars (one form of it is epsomite, or \"Epsom salts\"), in 2004. Curiosity has detected calcium sulfates on Mars. Orbital maps also suggest that hydrated sulfates may be common on Mars. The orbital observations are consistent with iron sulfate or a mixture of calcium and magnesium sulfate.\n\nSo magnesium sulfate is a likely component of cold brines on the planet, especially with the limited availability of subsurface ice. Terrestrial magnesium sulfate lakes have similar chemical and physical properties. They also have a wide range of halophilic organisms, in all the three Kingdoms of life (Archaea, Bacteria and Eukaryota), in the surface and near subsurface. With the abundance of algae and bacteria, in alkaline hypersaline conditions, they are of astrobiological interest for both past and present life on Mars.\n\nThese lakes are most common in Western Canada, and the northern part of Washington state, USA. One of the examples, is Basque Lake 2 in Western Columbia, which is highly concentrated in magnesium sulfate. In summer it deposits epsomite (\"Epsom salts\"). In winter, it deposits meridianiite. This is named after Meridiani Planum where Opportunity rover found crystal molds in sulfate deposits (Vugs) which are thought to be remains of this mineral which have since been dissolved or dehydrated. It is preferentially formed at subzero temperatures, and is only stable below 2 °C, while Epsomite (·7) is favored at higher temperatures.\n\nAnother example is Spotted Lake, which shows a wide variety of minerals, most of them sulfates, with sodium, magnesium and calcium as cations.\n\nThough many of the experiments use these lakes as an analogue for ancient Mars, some researchers also have investigated them as an analogue to explore the possibility of microbes that could inhabit cold magnesium sulfate rich brines in present-day Mars. Some of the microbes isolated have been able to survive the high concentrations of magnesium sulfates found in martian soils, also at low temperatures that may be found on Mars.\n\nSulfates (for instance of sodium, magnesium and calcium) are also common in other continental evaporates (such as the salars of the Atacama desert), as distinct from salt beds associated with marine deposits which tend to consist mainly of halites (chlorides).\n\nSubglacial lakes such as Lake Vostok may give analogues of Mars habitats beneath ice sheets. In 2001, Duxbury et al. suggested that processes similar to the ones that maintain Lake Vostok liquid could work on Mars.\n\nSub glacial lakes are kept liquid partly by the pressure of the depth of ice, but that contributes only a few degrees of temperature rise. The main effect that keeps them liquid is the insulation of the ice blocking escape of heat from the interior of the Earth, similarly to the insulating effect of deep layers of rock. As for deep rock layers, they don't require extra geothermal heating below a certain depth.\n\nIn the case of Mars, the depth needed for geothermal melting of the basal area of a sheet of ice is 4-6 kilometers. The ice layers are probably only 3.4 to 4.2 km in thickness for the north polar cap. However, Duzbury et al. showed that the situation is different if you consider a lake that is already melted. When they applied their model to Mars, they showed that a liquid layer, once melted (initially open to the surface of the ice), could remain stable at any depth over 600 meters even in absence of extra geothermal heating.\n\nSo, according to their model, if the polar regions had a subsurface lake perhaps formed originally through friction as a subglacial lake at times of favourable axial tilt, then supplied by accumulating layers of snow on top as the ice sheets thickened, they suggest that it could still be there. If so, it could be occupied by similar lifeforms to those that could survive in Lake Vostok.\n\nGround penetrating radar could detect these lakes because of the high radar contrast between water and ice or rock. MARSIS, the ground penetrating radar on ESA's Mars Express is our best instrument for the job. After several searches, it hasn't found anything yet. Their resolution isn't that great, however, around a kilometer. We can say that Mars doesn't seem to have an equivalent of our Lake Vostok (250 km by 50 km by 0.43 km deep) at present. It could still have small subglacial lakes of up to a kilometer or so in diameter.\n\nInvestigations of life in deep mines, and drilling beneath the ocean depths may give an insight into possibilities for life in the Mars Hydrosphere and other deep subsurface habitats, if they exist.\n\n\n\nIn high alpine and polar regions, lichens have to cope with conditions of high UV fluxes low temperatures and arid environments. This is especially so when the two factors, polar regions and high altitudes are combined. These conditions occur in the high mountains of Antarctica, where lichens grow at altitudes up to 2,000 meters with no liquid water, just snow and ice. Researchers described this as the most Mars-like environment on the Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "17549957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17549957", "title": "Protected areas of Norway", "text": "Protected areas of Norway\n\nProtected areas of Norway include:\n\nAbout 17 percent of the mainland of Norway is protected. Of this, ca. 8.3 percent is national parks, 1.3 percent is nature reserves and 4.7 percent otherwise protected.\n\nIUCN aims to protect at least 15 percent of all types of nature.\n"}
{"id": "22228904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22228904", "title": "River pocket", "text": "River pocket\n\nThe term river pocket is used in Australia to refer to an area of land enclosed within the bend of a river, especially where the bend is extended or pronounced and the only road access is along the isthmus.\n\nExamples are Fig Tree Pocket, Long Pocket, Priors Pocket, Sapling Pocket and Wivenhoe Pocket all on the Brisbane River.\n"}
{"id": "5168879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5168879", "title": "State/Space theory", "text": "State/Space theory\n\nState/Space theory constitutes a new branch of social and political geography in which the issues of space as a geographic element are considered for their influence on political relationships and outcomes. Leading scholars include Neil Brenner at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, and Bob Jessop at Lancaster University in England, United Kingdom.\n\nOther relevant scholars include the following: Henri Lefebvre, Charles Tilly, Saskia Sassen, and Edward W. Soja.\n\n"}
{"id": "3523502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3523502", "title": "Stockholm Partnerships for Sustainable Cities", "text": "Stockholm Partnerships for Sustainable Cities\n\nStockholm Partnerships for Sustainable Cities is an organization which gathers and disseminates information and technology developed through sustainability projects in several countries. The organization attempts to help representatives of national and local governments, industry, non-governmental organizations, academia, media, finance institutions, and international organizations to share their knowledge and experience in applied technology and management. \n\nThe group focuses on the respective roles of industry, local government, and communities in sustainable urban development, and how these roles evolve and influence each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "5671792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5671792", "title": "Subdivisions of Ethiopia", "text": "Subdivisions of Ethiopia\n\nEthiopia is administratively divided into regional states and chartered cities, zones, \"woreda\" (districts) and \"kebele\" (wards).\n\nThe 9 regional states or \"kililoch\" are based on ethnic territoriality:\n\nThe 9 regions are further subdivided into 68 zones.\n\nWoreda or districts are smaller subdivisions.\n\nKebele are municipalities. They are the smallest administrative division.\n\nBetween 1942 and 1991, Ethiopia was divided into 13 provinces. Other provinces existed before 1942.\n"}
{"id": "41481717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41481717", "title": "Timeline of Sofia", "text": "Timeline of Sofia\n\nThe following is a of the history of the city of Sofia, Bulgaria.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"This article incorporates information from the Bulgarian Wikipedia.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10794303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10794303", "title": "Toponyms of Finland", "text": "Toponyms of Finland\n\nThe toponyms of Finland result mainly from the legacy left by three linguistic heritages: the Finnish language (spoken as first language by about 93% of the population), the Swedish language (about 5.5%) and Sami languages (about 0.03%). Finland’s place names range from those of unknown or unrecognizable origins to more clearly derivable onomastics. There are both national and international recommendations on how to use the bilingual country's place names in texts written in different languages. In Finland, the Research Institute for the Languages of Finland and the National Land Survey of Finland are jointly responsible for the standardization of place names.\n\nA few notable place names – such as a few major hydronyms Päijänne, Saimaa, Imatra and Keitele which are thought to be among the oldest toponyms – still lack a sound derivation from existing languages despite of different approaches. This has led to the postulation that they may originate from an unknown language.\nA substratum of archaic Sami place names, often fennicized in the course of time, can be found throughout the country. The majority of Finland’s toponyms can be recognized having archaic or dialectal Finnish origins. A Finnish substratum can be deduced in Swedish place names and vice versa in many cases. Major urbanisation started and city rights were granted in Finland when the country was part of Sweden in a situation where Swedish was the de facto only official language though the majority always spoke Finnish dialects as a first language. Therefore, in older foreign writing, many municipal and city names are given only in their Swedish form. Other substrata in Finland’s toponyms include Finnic, Baltic, Germanic and Slavic linguistic influence in several chronological layers.\n\nFinland, except for the Åland islands, has two official languages: Finnish and Swedish. The Åland islands have a single official language: Swedish. On the mainland, Swedish-speakers are concentrated to the regions Ostrobothnia, Uusimaa and around Turku. North Sami, Inari Sami and Skolt Sami are semi-official in the Sami Domicile Area. The Language Act of 2003 groups municipalities into three groups: monolingually Finnish, monolingually Swedish and bilingual. The municipality is monolingual, if it has less than 8% of the minority language speakers and if the population of the lingual minority in the municipality is below 3,000. Other communities are bilingual.<ref name=\"Kielilaki 423/2003\">Kielilaki (423/2003) 5 §. Retrieved 3-8-2007. </ref>\n\nIn bilingual municipalities, the Language Act requires that all toponyms have both a Finnish and a Swedish name. In addition, many monolingually Finnish municipalities have an official Swedish name, and vice versa. The municipalities have the power to decide their own name but they are required to consult with the Research Institute for the Languages of Finland before the official decision.\n\nThese are the current conventions recommended by the Research Institute for the Languages of Finland. The conventions have also been adopted by the United Nations Group of Experts on Geographical Names:\n\n\nThe convention concerning street names and traffic signs maintains that the majority language toponym is presented topmost and place names in the minority languages are listed below.\n\nA few exonyms (in Medieval or Neo-Latin, not in use in Finland or Sweden) exist for Finland’s provincial structures. These include the names of the nine historical provinces (Fi: maakunta, Sw: landskap) that have given names to some of Finland’s current regions (Fi: maakunta, Sw: landskap, altogether 20 as of 1997). These may fall under the category of \"already established place names in foreign languages\" mentioned in the above recommendations.\n\nThe names of the nine historical provinces in Finnish, Swedish and English :\n\nIn urban planning, new names are needed for different places. Suburbs, streets, parks and other areas must be named. In bilingual municipalities, the task is complicated by the need to use two different languages in the toponyms. As all municipalities in the Finnish capital region, which is the most swiftly developing area in Finland, are bilingual, the problem of devising good toponyms is not a small task.\n\nThe Research Institute for the Languages of Finland has given guidelines for devising new toponyms. The basic principle is to use toponyms already in use and spell them according to the modern language norms. As the old toponym for a minor place, such as a field, often exist only in one language, they should be translated with care. Only such names which carry an identifiable meaning should be translated directly. If the toponym already exists in both languages, the existing forms should be used. If the translation of the name is unfeasible and there exists no toponym in the other language, then the toponym should be loaned in its original form. Personal names should not be translated. However, if the existing name is unusable in the other language for phonetic or grammatical reasons, a new name may be freely invented.\n\nThe cases where two municipalities are fused together, create a special case for the construction of toponyms. There are two simple cases for the name selection:\n\nIn other cases, the toponym should be selected from the historical toponyms of the area. In many cases, there are historical administrative structures that have encompassed the area of the merging municipalities. If such names are unusable, the name of some the most prominent villages in the area should be used. To reduce the possibility of confusion, the new name should not include the name of the province or the region. In no case should the name be made up of two parts, because the use of such name is grammatically difficult in Finnish language. The names of the merger projects or frivolous names should also be avoided at all costs.\n\nIf the merging municipalities will form a bilingual municipality, the Finnish name chosen for the municipality should be such that a Swedish counterpart can be found without difficulty. The Swedish name of the new municipality should be devised according to the same principles as in other toponymical planning.\n\nIn Finnish grammar, some toponyms receive external locative suffixes, especially those named for bodies of water, as in (river and town Seinäjoki) \"Seinäjoella (either on river Seinäjoki or in town Seinäjoki. Case of being in or under the river being \"Seinäjoessa). The rest receive internal locative suffixes, as in \"Helsingissä\" (being inflected form of the town, meaning: in Helsinki).\n\n"}
{"id": "28912752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28912752", "title": "Winship Point", "text": "Winship Point\n\nWinship Point () is a point at the west side of the entrance to Potter Cove, King George Island, in the South Shetland Islands. Named by the United Kingdom Antarctic Place-Names Committee (UK-APC) in 1960 for Jonathan Winship, master of the ship O'Cain in 1820-21, operating from Potter Cove.\n"}
