{"id": "53917756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53917756", "title": "A Subtlety", "text": "A Subtlety\n\nA Subtlety (also known as the Marvelous Sugar Baby and subtitled \"an Homage to the unpaid and overworked Artisans who have refined our Sweet tastes from the cane fields to the Kitchens of the New World on the Occasion of the demolition of the Domino Sugar Refining Plant\") is a 2014 piece of installation art by American artist Kara Walker. \"A Subtlety\" was dominated by its central piece, a white sculpture depicting a woman with African features in the shape of a sphinx, but also included fifteen other sculptures. These fifteen \"attendants\" to the sphinx were enlarged versions of contemporary blackamoors produced in China. \n\nThe piece was installed in the Domino Sugar Factory in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn from May through July 2014. Although thematically consistent with Walker's earlier work, its scope and presentation were departures from her oeuvre. \n\nThe project was commissioned by Creative Time and underwritten by New York-based real estate development company Two Trees, and was built with donated materials. The exhibition sparked conversations about the show's audience, the gentrification of Brooklyn, and the work's themes of race, sexuality, oppression, labor, and the ephemeral.\n\nThe Domino Sugar Factory site is owned by real estate developer Two Trees, and the bulk of the facility has been slated for demolition as part of the redevelopment since around 2010. Ann Pasternak, the president of Creative Time, reached out to Jed Walentas, both a Two Trees employee and a board member of Creative Time about a show on the site. Creative Time approached Walker roughly a year before the exhibition. Creative Time selected Kara both because \"[they] had been trying to get her to sign on to a public artwork for many years\" and due to \"the obvious historic connections between her work and the site\". Walker was attracted to the project in part because of the plant's history and the evidence of the work done there, such as molasses still covering the facility's walls. \n\nCreative Time and Walker kept details about the project secret from the press. Production required several months of work and a team of more than 30.\n\nWalker first sketched a drawing of the sphinx, which was passed onto a production team. This team created a physical mock-up of the sphinx and uploaded a 3D version to manipulate using a computer. Upon completion, the sphinx was approximately 75 feet long and 35 feet tall, and was constructed from 330 polystyrene blocks donated by the Insulation Corporation of America. Domino Sugar donated roughly 162,000 pounds (approximately 80 tons) for the sphinx's \"skin\". The team used roughly half the donated sugar, and applied it to the underlying structure by hand and shovel. The polystyrene was recycled after the exhibit was closed, though the sugar was not.\n\nThe blackamoors were based on ceramic figurines found by Walker on Amazon.com and were enlarged and altered for the show. Five of the fifteen were made of solid sugar. The remaining ten, five holding baskets with bananas and five with baskets held on their backs, were first built from sugar as well. However, they collapsed under the heat, and were replaced with versions made of resin and coated in a layer of molasses. Each statue weighed between 300 and 500 pounds.\n\nWalker is best known for her silhouettes depicting stylized scenes from the Antebellum South. Although thematically similar to earlier works, the sphinx and whole installation was a break with Walker's earlier work in terms of its scale. The name of the exhibit, \"A Subtlety\" is a reference to sugar sculptures used as decoration or food in aristocratic European households during the Middle Ages known as \"subtleties\" in English-speaking countries.\n\nThe sphinx evokes stereotypical depictions of the Southern Mammy archetype. Consistent with the mammy archetype, the sphinx appears to be overweight and wears a bonnet. Walker's choice to depict a mammy was in part inspired by a \"Mammy memorial\" intended to be built in the District of Columbia.\n\n\"A Subtlety\" was open to the public from May 10th to July 6th of 2014 on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays. Entrance to the exhibit required signing a waiver due to the asbestos and lead found in the structure, which was inhaled by those attending. Editorials noted the overwhelmingly white makeup of the audience. Jamilah King, writing for \"Color Lines\" said \"...it's reassuring that so many white people have a vested -- or at least passing -- interest in consuming art that deals with race. At the same time I found it unsettling to view art by a black artist about racism in an audience that's mostly white.\"\n\nAttendees were encouraged to post photographs to social media platform Instagram using the hashtag #karawalkerdomino. Many noted insensitive posts by audience members, including \"...jokes about the sphinx’s vagina or gag pictures where the subject pretends to pinch [the sphinx's] ass\" as well as a general insensitivity by those in the audience not found at other sites commemorating tragedies, such as the September 11th Memorial. After the close of the exhibit, Walker said that she had anticipated such reactions. \n\nSalome Asega and Sable Elyse Smith, New York-based artists, organized a visit to the site for people of color who might otherwise have felt uncomfortable in the space given the behavior of the audience and the lack of structured guidance by Creative Time. The gathering, dubbed \"We Are Here\" distributed informational pamphlets and stickers reading \"We Are Here\" to those participating.\n\nAfter the end of the exhibit, the sphinx was disassembled in a process that took a week. Walker did not participate in the disassembly, and spent time at her home in Massachusetts after the show ended. One piece of the sphinx, the left hand, was retained and shown in November 2014 at Sikkema Jenkins, the gallery which represents Walker. According to Walker, the hand is stored in either “New Jersey or Long Island\". It is also scheduled to be shown on the Greek island of Hydra in the summer of 2017, beginning June 20th.\n\nThe central themes of the exhibit included race, oppression, labor, and the ephemeral nature of both the site and the work itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "33176029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33176029", "title": "Abidji language", "text": "Abidji language\n\nAbidji (Abiji) is a language of uncertain classification within the Kwa branch of the Niger–Congo family. It is spoken in Ivory Coast.\n\n"}
{"id": "24892258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24892258", "title": "An-Nasir Abdallah", "text": "An-Nasir Abdallah\n\nAn-Nasir Abdallah (1811 - April 1840) was an Imam of Yemen who ruled in 1837-1840. He was a member of the Qasimid family, descendants of Muhammad, which dominated the Zaidi imamate of Yemen from 1597 to 1962.\n\nAbdallah bin Muhammad bin al-Qasim bin Abbas was a great-grandson of Imam al-Mahdi Abbas (d. 1775). He was originally an imam of the prayer at the Qubbat Mahdi Abbas in San'a. In February 1837, the unqualified incumbent al-Mansur Ali II was deposed by the soldiery of San'a, since their salary was in arrears. Abdallah successfully made his da'wa (call for the immate) with the help of his partisans among religious students. The deposed imam and his uncle Sidi Muhammad were kept prisoners by the new ruler, who took the name an-Nasir Abdallah. He took over at a time when the Yemeni lowlands or Tihamah were occupied by Egyptian troops. The viceroy of Egypt, Muhammad Ali Pasha, sent an envoy to an-Nasir Abdallah and summoned him to surrender San'a to the Porte. This was politely refused.\n\nAn-Nasir Abdallah represented the traditional Zaydiyya interests, as opposed to the Sunni-influenced judiciary previously built up by the scholar Muhammad ash-Shawkani. After his accession he strove to deconstruct the legacy of ash-Shawkani. He introduced a strict legislation where the movements of women were restricted, as well as the use of musical instruments. The Ismailis living west of San'a were oppressed through his policies. Enraged Ismailis eventually drove the imam's men out of the town Haraz. In 1840, an-Nasir Abdallah was murdered by his own servants in his country house. According to another version, the assassins were Ismailis from the Hamdan tribe. In his stead, Sidi Muhammad was released from prison and raised to the imamate, under the name al-Hadi Muhammad.\n\n"}
{"id": "24108488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24108488", "title": "Apoquindo massacre", "text": "Apoquindo massacre\n\nThe Apoquindo massacre, also known as the Apoquindo shootings, was an incident in Santiago, Chile, on October 21, 1993, in which eight people died after members of the Chilean left-wing guerrilla movement Movimiento Juvenil Lautaro robbed a branch on Avenida Apoquindo, Las Condes, Santiago de Chile, where the bank guard was shot dead.\n\nThe assailants boarded a minibus that was intercepted by police officers of the Carabineros de Chile, sparking an assault that resulted in the death of a further seven persons: 3 attackers, 3 passengers on the bus and a police officer. A further 12 people were wounded.\n\nAlthough by 1993 Chile had officially become a democracy, the Chilean military remained highly powerful and the Constitution of Chile ensured the continued influence of General Augusto Pinochet and his military commanders. This prevented President Patricio Aylwin's government from achieving many of the goals it had set out to achieve, such as the restructuring of the Constitutional Court of Chile and the reduction of Pinochet's political power. In spite of the severe limits imposed on Aylwin's government by the Constitution, over four years, it \"altered power relations in its favor in the state, in civil society, and in political society.\" However, organizations including the Movimiento Juvenil Lautaro, the Manuel Rodríguez Patriotic Front and the Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria continued to resist the Chilean government, either through nonviolent underground resistance or through armed resistance.\n\nOn October 21, 1993, a group of five members of the Lautaro guerrilla movement robbed a branch of Banco O'HIggins, located at Avenida Apoquindo 6417. According to the survivors, the purpose of the robbery was to seize funds for the rescue of political prisoners.\n\nThe robbers managed to escape on a minibus running on Santiago bus route 24-C, which was stopped by the police near Avenida Manquehue. Shooting broke out, in the course of which seven people, three robbers, three bus passengers and one policeman, were killed and 12 people were injured. Two police officers were arrested and prosecuted for making reckless use of their service weapons. According to ballistic tests, the minibus, in which there were more than 20 passengers, received between 162 and 300 bullet holes, according to differing sources.\n\nThe government of the time, led by President Patricio Aylwin, endorsed the actions of the police. The senator Sergio Onofre Jarpa said, \"this is like a war. They declared it and you have to face them at whatever cost.\"\n\nEight years later, the military court handed down verdicts, sentencing the two survivors, Alvaro Gonzalez and Oriana Alcayaga, to a total of 81 years and 61 years imprisonment respectively.\n\nTwo Carabineros arrested in connection with the shootings later received suspended sentences of 541 and 240 days.\n"}
{"id": "1235223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1235223", "title": "Bassa people (Liberia)", "text": "Bassa people (Liberia)\n\nThe Bassa people of Liberia are a West African ethnic group primarily found in its central coastal regions. They live in Grand Bassa, Rivercess, Margibi and Montserrado counties. In Liberia's capital of Monrovia, they are the largest ethnic group. With an overall population of about 0.57 million, they are the second largest ethnic group in Liberia (13.4%), after the Kpelle people (20.3%). Small Bassa communities are also found in Sierra Leone and Ivory Coast.\n\nThe Bassa speak the Bassa language, a Kru language that belongs to the Niger-Congo family of languages. They had their own pictographic writing system but it went out of use in the 19th century, was rediscovered among the slaves of Brazil and the West Indies in 1890s, and reconstructed in early 1900 by Thomas Flo Darvin Lewis. The revived signs-based script is called \"Ehni Ka Se Fa\".\n\nIn local languages, the Bassa people are also known as Gboboh, Adbassa or Bambog-Mbog people.\n\nThe Bassa people have a Kemetic origin, are people who likely left Egypt in early medieval era and migrated south then west, sometime after the collapse of Adbassa Empire and the invasion of the Persians in 6th-century. Some of them reached coastal West Africa and other parts including Liberia, Sierra Leone, Togo and Nigeria, Senegal while others settled in central African region of Cameroon and Congo. Geographically separated groups evolved their separate culture, language and society. The Bassa people are related to the Basari people of Togo and Senegal, the Bassa-Mpoku people in Congo regions, the Bassa-Bakoko people of Cameroon and the Balanta-Brassa people of Guinea-Bissau and Senegal.\nThe linguistic evidence and oral traditions of these geographically diverse, small yet significant group suggests that their name \"Bassa\" may be related to \"Bassa sooh nyombe\" which means \"Father Stone's people\". Early European traders had trouble pronouncing the entire phrase, and the shorter form Bassa has been used in Western literature ever since.\n\nThe traditional religion of the Bassa people has a moral and ethical foundation, one that reveres ancestors and supernatural spirits. Christianity arrived among the Bassa people during the colonial era, and the first Bible was translated into Bassa language in 1922. The adoption process fused the idea of Christian God with their traditional idea of a Supreme Being and powerful first ancestor who is merciful and revengeful, rewarding the good and punishing the bad. The traditional religion has included secret rites of passage for men and women, such as the Sande society.\n\nNumerous missionaries from different denominations of Christianity have been active among the Bassa people during the 20th century. These has led to many Bassa independent churches from Europe, North America, Africa and Evangelical movements. In contemporary times, the Bassa people predominantly practice Christianity, but they have retained elements of their traditional religion.\n\nThe Bassa people are traditionally settled farmers who grow yam, cassava, eddoes and plantain. They are a lineage-linked independent clans who live in villages, each with a chief.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7585942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7585942", "title": "Capital punishment in Pakistan", "text": "Capital punishment in Pakistan\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Pakistan. Although there have been numerous amendments to the Constitution, there is yet to be a provision prohibiting the death penalty as a punitive remedy.\n\nA moratorium on executions was imposed in 2008. No executions occurred from 2009 to 2011, with 1 in 2012 and 0 in 2013. The moratorium was lifted fully after the massacre of 132 students and 9 members of staff of the Army Public School and Degree College Peshawar, and routine executions resumed. Pakistan carried out 7 executions in 2014, 326 in 2015, 87 in 2016, and 65 in 2017. Hanging is the only legal method of execution.\n\nThe 1973 Constitution of Pakistan is divided into twelve parts, with over 250 articles. This fundamental document asserts individual rights and protection, such as the status of women, the right to fair trial, and the right to life. Nevertheless, despite the fundamental right to life entrenched in its Constitution, the Court has jurisdiction to sentence a person to death. As part 6 of the Constitution gives the Court the right to find an individual guilty of any crimes punishable by death under the Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860), or any other relevant law.\n\nNevertheless, the Constitution contains a vivid preamble which states that Pakistan ought to follow and operate by Islamic laws and teaching. Whilst retaining the democratic principles entrenched in Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that of all man are created equal and therefore, should equally be judged under national law The Constitution is a balance between two worlds, Islamic and non-Islamic. Article 31 of the Constitution talks about the ‘Islamic way of life’ meanwhile part 9 contains Islamic provisions.\n\nAs an Islamic state, Pakistan has to follow Islamic laws, and as a matter of fact, Islam does not reject capital punishment. The \"Qur'an\" 6:151 States “…take not life, which God has made sacred, except by way of justice and law. Thus, does He command you, so that you may learn wisdom” This scripture of the \"Qur'an\" illustrates that, although Islam grants the right to life as seen in the fundamental principles above, it also permits individuals lives to be taken only in ‘ways of justice’.\n\nHowever, although capital punishment may be allowed, the \"Qur'an\" predominantly teaches forgiveness and peace. Muslims believe that capital punishment is a most severe sentence but one that may be instructed by a court for crimes of suitable severity, as seen above this is a perfectly painted picture of what the Constitution does. Although murder is deemed as a big sin in most religion, it is also punishable by death in many countries including Pakistan.\n\nThe crucial point to note is that one may take a life “by way of justice and law” in Islamic teachings and belief. Henceforth why most Islamic states will continue to allow capital punish clauses in their fundamental documents. As the death penalty can only be applied by the court as a remedy to the victim and their families, in most serious criminal cases. This is often the reasons why most Islamic Republic States like Pakistan will continue such practice.\n\nThe Pakistan Penal Code contains 27 different offenses punishable by death, including blasphemy, rape, sexual intercourse outside of marriage, assault on the modesty of women, and smuggling of drugs. This Code draws its origin from the Indian Penal Code, after several amendments from different governments in Pakistan, the Code is now a mixture of Islamic and English law. This Code provides explanations, definition, and punishment for all type of offenses.\n\nSection 302 of the Code governs the punishment for murder, also known as \"Qatl-i-amd\", which is then divided into three categories. The first dealing with death as \"qisas\", this is the Islamic word meaning retribution, this permits the state to take one’s life for murder, which is also known as equal retaliation, an eye for an eye type of law. The second type under section 302 is \"ta'zir\", this is death or imprisonment, this word is an Islamic legal term referring to an offence punishable at the discretion of a judge or state. The third is any punishment of imprisonment. The Code also punishes any act of rape with death or imprisonment, not less than ten years depending on the ‘severity’ of the case.\n\nSection 376 states that if and when the act of rape is committed by two or more individuals with common intention like gang rapes the criminals should meet the fate of death or life imprisonment.\nAlthough in many countries insults or defamation of any religion such as Islam is not a crime, in Pakistan this is one of the biggest crimes one can commit. Blasphemy is deemed as a crime not only under the Code but also under Islamic law. This is controversial, as many people believe that this should not be punishable as it violates the fundamental freedom of speech. The Code address the penalty and offenses relating to religion under section 295B and C. Subsection B punishes any defamation made against the \"Holy Qur'an\" with life imprisonment. Whereas, punishment under subsection C is for any written or spoken words direct or indirect made to defile the ‘sacred name of Prophet Muhammad’ will be punished by death or life imprisonment. Other crimes punishable with death are those of \"Fasad fil-ardh\", which is any offence of treason (this could be when one leaves Islam to join foreign faiths to combat Islam), homosexual acts (this is prohibited under Islamic laws and teachings) and piracy of any kind. Islam permits the death penalty for anyone who threatens to undermine authority or destabilise the state. \n\nOne of the first international treaties to place limits on the death penalty was the 1929 Geneva Convention, this restricted death to prisoners of war taken in armed conflict. The ICCPR was adopted with the aim of restricting the death penalty only for ‘most serious crimes’ in accordance with states law. Although Article 6 of the ICCPR does not expressly prohibit capital punishment, the Human Rights Committee said its drafting ‘strongly suggests the abolition is desirable’. Despite the lack of such a mandatory requirement, the movement towards abolishing the death penalty worldwide has been increasing rapidly in the last sixty years, particularly since the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. At the beginning of the 20th century, only Costa Rica, San Marino and Venezuela had permanently abolished the death penalty. At the current time, 133 countries have abolished the death penalty in law or in practice.\n\nThe United Nations Economic and Social Council published the \"Safeguards Guaranteeing the Protection of the Rights of Those Facing the Death Penalty\", attempted to define the meaning of ‘most serious crime’ in 1984. It asserts that such type of crimes should not go beyond international crimes with lethal or grave outcomes. However, as noted above every state has deferent views to what is a serious criminal offence for their nation.\n\nThe Constitution of Pakistan empowers the President to pardon or remit convictions. The Pakistan Peoples Party government, whose former chairperson Benazir Bhutto was a well known opponent of the death penalty, came to power in March 2008, and installed its President, Asif Ali Zardari on 9 September 2008. Upon taking charge of the office, he issued an indefinite moratorium on executions; however, one prisoner was executed in 2012. The moratorium ended on 14 November 2014 when Muhammed Hussain, a soldier, was hanged for murder at Central Jail Mianwali.\n\nOn 17 December 2014, after the Peshawar school attack, in which the Pakistani Taliban murdered 132 children and at least nine others, the authorities announced the moratorium would be lifted for terrorism cases. Executions immediately resumed, with dozens more following.\n\nFinally on 10 March 2015, Pakistan lifted the moratorium on the use of capital punishment in the country entirely.\n\nAmnesty International argue that at least 8,200 prisoners were under the death penalty at the end of 2014 and at least 8,500 were thought to be on death row as of June 2015. In October 2015, Minister of State for Interior Muhammad Baligh Rahman told the Senate that there were 6,016 death row inmates in the country, but it is not clear whether he was referring only to inmates whose death sentences had been finalized on appeal. Amnesty also alleged that since the lifting of a six-year moratorium on execution, there has been more than 400 carried out by the Pakistani Government. Amnesty found that not only that is a violation of the right to life, but on many occasion, capital punishment is usually imposed after an unfair trial by both the military and the civil courts.\n\nIn a recent article, “Pakistan: Government Undermine The People’s Right to Life” the Asian Legal Resource Center at (ALRC) addressed its concerns to the UN Human Right Council about the Pakistani Government's clear violation of Article 6 of the ICCPR. Furthermore, the ALRC states that Article 9 of Pakistan Constitution states that “No Person shall be deprived of life or liberty save in accordance with law,” yet the country’s civilian and military courts are sentencing people without following due process. Even the façade of the rule of law has taken a back seat as the State gropes in the dark to deter terrorism with judicial and quasi-judicial terror. They argue that the Pakistani Government are not following international principles or instructions of ‘most serious crimes’ when ordering the killing of vulnerable people usually for the most pity crimes. According to the Human Rights Watch, in 2016 85 people were executed\n\n\n\nA “MOST SERIOUS CRIME”\nPAKISTAN'S UNLAWFUL USE OF THE DEATH PENALTY \n\nPakistan: Death penalty for blasphemy on Facebook \n"}
{"id": "31865119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31865119", "title": "Certificate of relief from disabilities", "text": "Certificate of relief from disabilities\n\nA Certificate of relief from disabilities is issued by a state of the United States of America to a person who has committed a felony or misdemeanor but has subsequently shown that he or she has been rehabilitated. The closely related \"Certificate of good conduct\" is given to a person who has committed two or more felonies and has demonstrated rehabilitation. Potential employers or licensing authorities must consider these certificates as evidence that the person is rehabilitated: if a person has such a certificate, the fact that they were convicted cannot be used as a reason to deny them employment or the granting of a license. Not all states offer such certificates.\n"}
{"id": "38288714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38288714", "title": "Charles Cochrane (social reformer)", "text": "Charles Cochrane (social reformer)\n\nCharles Cochrane (1807-1855) was a Scottish author, campaigner for the poor in London in the 'hungry 40s' and, in the last years of his life, campaigner against Sunday trading. Cochrane was born in Madras, the son of Basil Cochrane who himself was the sixth son of Scottish nobleman and politician Thomas Cochrane, 8th Earl of Dundonald.\n\n1830 saw the publication of Cochranes' \"The Journal of a Tour Made by Senor Juan De Vega, the Spanish Minstrel of 1828-29\" which recounted Cochrane's tour of Britain and Ireland disguised as a Spanish minstrel, 'exploiting somewhat belatedly the sympathy felt for Spanish refugees after the French invasion of 1823'. Cochrane's \"Spanish Minstrel\" was satirised by Henry Mayhew in his one act play \"The Wandering Minstrel\".\n\nAfter the introduction of the harsh poor laws of the 1830s Cochrane became increasingly concerned with responding in a practical way to poverty, deprivation and hunger in London. In 1842 he founded and became President of the National Philanthropic Association and in 1846 he founded the Poor Man's Guardian Society, 'instituted for the purpose of aiding the destitute in their approach for parochial relief, and for securing them the legal and humane dispensation of the Poor-law.' The society attempted to get the support of Charles Dickens who was cautious in his response but did pay them a subscription of five guineas. The organisation described Charles Dickens as a vice-president. Cochrane became an increasingly prominent figure in London circles with his campaigns for the poor, advocating radical improvements in sanitation and public health.\n\nBy 1848 the NPA had introduced a system of paid street cleaners to West Central London\n"}
{"id": "17040990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17040990", "title": "Collective buying power", "text": "Collective buying power\n\nCollective buying power is a coming together of a group of consumers and the use of the old rule of thumb, there's power in numbers, to leverage the group size in exchange for discounts.\n\nMany different companies have used this concept to build business plans. Warehouse clubs function in a similar way by offering products in bulk to consumers who pay membership fees. In the same sense collective buying power is a cooperative approach to leveraging group size to benefit the consumer by offering\n\nInternet companies have been leveraging this concept, bringing people together online. The company will arrange a coupon offering, that will only go into effect if more than a before agreed upon number are sold.\n\nOne example of a business plan that uses collective buying power is found in the dental industry. Discount dental plans negotiate dental discounts on behalf of its members. Quality service is not compromised because it is a win‑win scenario for all stakeholders. While dentists are offering their services at discounted rates, it's still beneficial for them because they increase their patient volume. Patients benefit because they are getting services at discounted rates.\n\nCollective buying power should not be confused with \"purchasing power\", \"consumer purchasing power\", or \"collective purchasing power\", which is a consumer's ability or a group of consumers' ability to buy goods and services as distinguished from the amount of money a consumer has.\n\nIt should also not be conflated with \"buying power\" or \"consumer buying power\", which has two definitions. The first, a consumer behavior definition, found in economic psychology implying the income available for discretionary spending among segments in the population. In short, it is a measure of the ability and willingness to buy goods or services. The second is an industrial definition, which refers to the relative influence an individual or a job function (engineering, purchasing, production) has in a purchasing decision. Power may be based on reward abilities (granting monetary or perceptual benefits), coercion, legitimacy, personality, or expertise.\n\n"}
{"id": "27772740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27772740", "title": "Dawro people", "text": "Dawro people\n\nThe Dawro are a people of southern Ethiopia, also known as the Omete. They speak a Dawragna language. \n\nDuring the nineteenth century, the Dawro lived in an independent state known as the Kingdom of Dawro. In 2000, the Dawro Zone was split off from the former Semien Omo Zone in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region. It consists of the woredas of Isara Tocha, Loma Bosa, and Mareka Gena.\n\n"}
{"id": "15775227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15775227", "title": "Erbreichsplan", "text": "Erbreichsplan\n\nThe Erbreichsplan (German for \"Plan for a Hereditary Empire\") was a plan formed by the Emperor Henry VI to change the Holy Roman Empire from an elective to a hereditary monarchy. Such a move would have drastically changed the character of the Empire, but Henry was unable to garner sufficient support for the plan and it was ultimately forgotten.\n\nHenry, who had been crowned Holy Roman Emperor in 1191, was known for being highly aggressive in guarding and expanding the rights of the imperial crown. In 1194 he also invaded the Kingdom of Sicily and conquered it from its king, William III. That same year his wife Constance gave birth to a son, Frederick II, who would, if all went well, inherit both the Imperial title and the Kingdom of Sicily. It was Henry's dream to have the Empire and Sicily permanently unified under the House of Hohenstaufen.\n\nUnfortunately for Henry's plans, however, the Empire was an elective monarchy, meaning that the Hohenstaufens' hold on the imperial title depended on a favorable election by the princes after the death of every Emperor. The dynasty's hold on the empire could never be secure as long as the princes controlled the electoral process. Henry was aware of developments in other European countries such as France, where the principle of hereditary monarchy was firmly established and the strength of the crown was increasing. Henry ultimately decided on pursuing a way to change the imperial title into a hereditary one, and attempted to gain the support of the princes of the Empire.\n\nThe secular princes, for their part, feared Henry's extensive powers. Although hereditary succession for princes (\"Leihezwang\") had become customary within the Empire, it was still not a formal right and on multiple occasions Henry refused to enfeoff the direct heir of a deceased prince with the latter's territory (the most notable example of this being Henry's seizure of the Margraviate of Meissen in 1195 as a vacant fief after the death of Albrecht the Proud, rather than enfeoffing Albrecht's brother Dietrich I with the margraviate). As a result, the princes were nervous about their rights of inheritance and were willing to grant certain concessions to the Emperor in exchange for the preservation of these rights.\n\nAfter his capture of Sicily in 1194 Henry was busy organizing for a possible crusade and negotiating over the election of his son Frederick as his successor within the Empire. The secular princes in the meantime made their desire for hereditary imperial fiefs, and for the recognition of the capacity for inheritance by the female line as well, known. By agreeing to consider these demands Henry was able to gain the acceptance by a majority of the secular princes for the idea of hereditary monarchy. Henry also bought the support of the ecclesiastical princes by announcing that he would be willing to give up the right of jus spolii, which had for years been used against Church lands.\n\nDespite the high degree of support he had from the secular and ecclesiastical princes for the idea, however, Henry was unable to secure an agreement in writing. The first obstacle to the plan was the Archbishop of Cologne, Adolf of Altena. Besides being opposed towards Henry's rule in general, Adolf was unwilling to give up the significant level of influence that his position traditionally held over the imperial election. When he aroused the resistance of several Saxon and Thuringian princes against the Emperor, Henry realized that he would be unable to establish hereditary monarchy without resistance.\n\nHenry next turned to the papacy, hoping that if he could get the support of the pope that the matter would be settled. Pope Celestine III, however, had many reasons to oppose such a plan, including the classic papal opposition to the expansion of Imperial power in Italy. Henry tried to compromise with Celestine, offering to meet several papal demands and probably offering a financial incentive. Ultimately the pope decided that the hazards of a hereditary monarchy were too great and refused to support Henry.\n\nHenry now found his campaign to turn his office into a hereditary one stalled. He gave up on his plans for the time being, in the meantime securing the election of Frederick as King of the Romans in late 1196. Over the next year he was bogged down by a revolt in Sicily and preparations for the Crusade, when he suddenly died in September 1197. His death put a definitive end to his plans for hereditary Imperial succession; the issue was quickly forgotten as the Empire quickly descended into civil war between Philip of Swabia and Otto IV. Henry's attempts to turn the Imperial title into a hereditary one were ultimately futile, and the Holy Roman Empire remained an elective monarchy (albeit \"de-facto\" under the Habsburgs for the last four centuries, with a brief interruption) all the way up until its dissolution in 1806.\n\n"}
{"id": "21526605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21526605", "title": "Eyo festival", "text": "Eyo festival\n\nThe Eyo Festival, otherwise known as the Adamu Orisha Play, is a Yoruba festival unique to Lagos, Nigeria. In modern times, it is presented by the people of Lagos as a tourist event and due to its history, is traditionally performed on Lagos Island.\n\nThe word \"Eyo\" also refers to the costumed dancers, known as the \"masquerades \"that come out during the festival. The origins of this observance are found in the inner workings of the secret societies of Lagos. Back in the days, The Eyo festival is held to escort the soul of a departed Lagos King or Chief and to usher in a new king. It is widely believed that the play is one of the manifestations of the customary African revelry that serves as the forerunner of the modern carnival in Brazil. On Eyo Day, the main highway in the heart of the city (from the end of Carter Bridge to Tinubu Square) is closed to traffic, allowing for procession from Idumota to the Iga Idunganran palace. The white-clad Eyo masquerades represent the spirits of the dead, and are referred to in Yoruba as \"agogoro Eyo\" (literally: \"tall Eyo\").\nThe first procession in Lagos was on the 20th of February, 1854, to commemorate the life of the Oba Akintoye.\n\nHere, the participants all pay homage to the reigning Oba of Lagos. The festival takes place whenever occasion and tradition demand, though it is usually held as part of the final burial rites of a highly regarded chief in the king's court.\n\nAmong the Yorubas, the indigenous religions have largely lost the greater majority of their traditional followers to Christianity and Islam. Be that as it may, the old festivals are still almost universally observed as tourist attractions which generate a lot of revenue for government and small businesses around the Lagos Island venue of the Eyo festival. It is during these occasions that their traditional monarchs and nobles exercise the most of their residual power.\n\nIn his book Nigerian Festivals, travel writer and culture reporter Pelu Awofeso notes: A full week before the festival (always a Sunday), the ‘senior’ eyo group, the Adimu (identified by a black, broad-rimmed hat), goes public with a staff. When this happens, it means the event will take place on the following Saturday. Each of the four other ‘important’ groups — Laba (Red), Oniko (yellow), Ologede (Green) and Agere (Purple) — take their turns in that order from Monday to Thursday.\n\nHistorically, Iperu is the source, cradle and originator of Eyo in Nigeria and the world. There are 5 different branches/types of Iga Eyo in Iperu \"Akesan\"\n\nNames of the families and Iga of Eyo each represents are:\n\n\nThe major source of éyo in Iperu is the Iga éyo Pakeriké and other 4 are the Iperu Royal houses.History made us to understand that Eyó was brought to Lagos to entertain an in-law which has now become something more celebrated in Lagos today.\n\n\"Akesan aagbé wa! Remo asuwon ooo!\"\n\n\n\nHere is a list of prohibited items at the festival:\n\n\nThe masquerades are known to beat people who use any of the prohibited items at sight with their staffs.\n\nFestivals in Nigeria\n\n\nHistorically,Iperu is the source, cradle and originator of Eyo in Nigeria and the world.\n\nThere are 5 different branches/types of Iga Eyo in Iperu\nOutline the names of the families and Iga of Eyo each represents. Which of them is the major one?\n\n\nThe five (5) Iga Eyo in Iperu Akesan are:\n\n1: Iga Pakerike which is symbolized by red cap of éyo\n\n2: Iga Agbonmagbe,also symbolized by blue cap of éyo.\n\n3: Iga éyo Odoru\n\n4: Iga éyo Mogusen/Amororo\n\n5:Iga éyo Fibigbuwa\n\nThe major source of éyo in Iperu is the Iga éyo Pakeriké and other 4 are the Iperu Royal houses.\n"}
{"id": "17183308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17183308", "title": "FIRE economy", "text": "FIRE economy\n\nA FIRE economy is any economy based primarily on the Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate sectors. Finance, insurance, and real estate are United States census bureau classifications. Barry Popik describes some early uses as far back as 1982. Since 2008, the term has been commonly used by Michael Hudson and Eric Janszen.\n\nIt is New York City's largest industry and a prominent part of the service industry in the U.S. overall economy and other Western, developed countries.\n\nThis term is frequently used in the financial press and blogs. Its origin is in the realm of North American industrial classification. \"Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate\" is the title of \"1992 U.S. Census Bureau Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Division H\". Its coverage was \"All domestic establishments that provide financial, insurance, or real estate services.\" Its coverage was elaborated in two-digit SIC codes 60 through 67. The SIC was replaced by the North American (Canada, USA, Mexico) Industry Classification System (NAICS) starting in 1997. The SIC had ten top-level divisions, NAICS has twenty. The new NAICS essentially split the old Division H into code 52 Finance and Insurance and code 53 Real Estate and Rental and Leasing.\n\nThe newer NAIC two-digit codes, 52 and 53, are extensively elaborated – down to the five-digit level. They remain largely unchanged in the 2007 NAICS drill down chart whose details are this for code 52 and this for code 53.\n\nThe second use of the term derives from the study of financial capital and income – as opposed to industrial capital and income. To characterize the so-called financial services industries, economists carved out part of the SIC/NAIS breakdown of types of industry: finance, insurance, and real estate. They contracted this to FIRE, deliberately invoking the negative connotations which were, at least then, contrary to conventional wisdom. The following table elaborates on this dichotomy in the header row and gives examples in ensuing rows.\n\nAt the city scale, Sassen has done a lot of researches of the FIRE influences to the Global Cities, such New York, London and Tokyo, since 1984. She and a group of scholars like Feistein, argued that FIRE aggravated social inequality and polarization of these cities.\n\nMuch criticism exists on the shifting of the U.S. economy to a FIRE economy at the expense of a manufacturing and export-based economy. As the consumer of last resort, many believe that the United States has eschewed productive elements of its economy in favor of consumption to its long term detriment.\n\"Particularly after 1973 … pundits of the status quo hailed the proliferation of the \"FIRE\" (finance, insurance, real estate) economy as the coming of a new \"service\" \"post-industrial\" economy that would replace the old \"smokestack\" economy and the jobs lost through plant closings, restructuring, and down-sizing …\"\n"}
{"id": "28264248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28264248", "title": "Fair Sentencing Act", "text": "Fair Sentencing Act\n\nThe Fair Sentencing Act of 2010 () was an Act of Congress that was signed into federal law by U.S. President Barack Obama on August 3, 2010 that reduces the disparity between the amount of crack cocaine and powder cocaine needed to trigger certain federal criminal penalties from a 100:1 weight ratio to an 18:1 weight ratio and eliminated the five-year mandatory minimum sentence for simple possession of crack cocaine, among other provisions. Similar bills were introduced in several U.S. Congresses before its passage in 2010, and courts had also acted to reduce the sentencing disparity prior to the bill's passage.\n\nThe Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986 implemented the initial disparity, reflecting Congress's view that crack cocaine was a more dangerous and harmful drug than powder cocaine. In the decades since, extensive research by the United States Sentencing Commission and other experts has suggested that the differences between the effects of the two drugs are exaggerated and that the sentencing disparity is unwarranted. Further controversy surrounding the 100:1 ratio was a result of its description by some as being racially biased and contributing to a disproportionate number of African Americans being sentenced for crack cocaine offenses. Legislation to reduce the disparity has been introduced since the mid-1990s, culminating in the signing of the Fair Sentencing Act.\n\nThe Act has been described as improving the fairness of the federal criminal justice system, and prominent politicians and non-profit organizations have called for further reforms, such as making the law retroactive and complete elimination of the disparity (i.e., enacting a 1:1 sentencing ratio).\n\nThe use of crack cocaine increased rapidly in the 1980s, accompanied by an increase in violence in urban areas. In response, the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986 included a provision that created the disparity between federal penalties for crack cocaine and powder cocaine offenses, imposing the same penalties for the possession of an amount of crack cocaine as for 100 times the same amount of powder cocaine. The law also contained minimum sentences and other disparities between the two forms of the drug.\n\nIn the three decades prior to the passing of the Fair Sentencing Act, those who were arrested for possessing crack cocaine faced much more severe penalties than those in possession of powder cocaine. While a person found with five grams of crack cocaine faced a five-year mandatory minimum prison sentence, a person holding powder cocaine could receive the same sentence only if he or she held five hundred grams. Similarly, those carrying ten grams of crack cocaine faced a ten-year mandatory sentence, while possession of one thousand grams of powder cocaine was required for the same sentence to be imposed.\n\nAt that time, Congress provided the following five reasons for the high ratio: crack cocaine was more addictive than powder cocaine; crack cocaine was associated with violent crime; youth were more likely to be drawn to crack cocaine; crack cocaine was inexpensive, and therefore more likely to be consumed in large quantities; and use of crack cocaine by pregnant mothers was dangerous for their unborn children.\n\nA study released in 1997 examined the addictive nature of both crack and powder cocaine and concluded that one was no more addictive than the other. The study explored other reasons why crack is viewed as more addictive and theorized, \"a more accurate interpretation of existing evidence is that already abuse-prone cocaine users are most likely to move toward a more efficient mode of ingestion as they escalate their use. The \"Los Angeles Times\" commented, \"There was never any scientific basis for the disparity, just panic as the crack epidemic swept the nation's cities.\"\nThe sentencing disparity between these two drug offenses is perceived by a number of commentators as racially biased. In 1995, the U.S. Sentencing Commission concluded that the disparity created a \"racial imbalance in federal prisons and led to more severe sentences for low-level crack dealers than for wholesale suppliers of powder cocaine. ... As a result, thousands of people – mostly African Americans – have received disproportionately harsh prison sentences.\"\n\nIn 2002, the United States Sentencing Commission \"found that the ratio was created based upon a misperception of the dangers of crack cocaine, which had since been proven to have a less drastic effect than previously thought.\" In 2009, the U.S. Sentencing Commission introduced figures stating that no class of drug is as racially skewed as crack in terms of numbers of offenses. According to the data, 79% of 5,669 sentenced crack offenders were black, while only 10% were white and 10% were Hispanic. The figures for the 6,020 powder cocaine convictions, in contrast, were as follows: 17% of these offenders were white, 28% were black, and 53% were Hispanic. Combined with a 115-month average imprisonment for crack offenses, compared with an average of 87 months for cocaine offenses, the sentencing disparity results in more African-Americans spending more time in the prison system.\n\nAsa Hutchinson, the former administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration under President George W. Bush, commented that because of the disparate treatment of these two offenses, \"the credibility of our entire drug enforcement system is weakened.\" The U.S. Sentencing Commission also released a statement saying that \"perceived improper racial disparity fosters disrespect for and lack of confidence in the criminal justice system.\" According to U.S. Senator Dick Durbin, \"The sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine has contributed to the imprisonment of African Americans at six times the rate of Whites and to the United States' position as the world's leader in incarcerations.\"\n\nAlthough the 100:1 federal sentencing ratio remained unchanged from 1986 to 2010, two U.S. Supreme Court cases provided lower courts with discretion in determining penalties for cocaine convictions. \"Kimbrough v. United States\" (2007) and \"Spears v. United States\" gave lower courts the option to set penalties and allowed judges who disagreed with the Federal Sentencing Guidelines to depart from the statutory ratio based on policy concerns. In 2009, the U.S. District Courts for the Western District of Pennsylvania, Western District of Virginia and District of Columbia used these cases to create one-to-one sentencing ratios of crack cocaine to powder cocaine. \"United States v. Booker\" (2005) and \"Blakely v. Washington\" (2004) also weakened the sentencing guidelines as a whole by making them advisory.\n\nThe U.S. Sentencing Commission first called for reform of the 100:1 sentencing disparity in 1994 after a year-long study on the differing penalties for powder and crack cocaine required by the Omnibus Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act. The Commission found that the sentencing disparity was unjustified due to the small differences between the two forms of cocaine, and advised Congress to equalize the quantity ratio that would trigger mandatory sentences. Congress rejected the Commission's recommendations for the first time in the Commission's history.\n\nIn April 1997, the Commission again recommended a reduction in the disparity, providing Congress with a range from 2:1 to 15:1 to choose from. This recommendation would have raised the quantity of crack and lowered the quantity of powder cocaine required to trigger a mandatory minimum sentence. Congress did not act on this recommendation. In 2002, the Commission again called for reducing sentencing disparities in its Report to Congress based on extensive research and testimony by medical and scientific professionals, federal and local law enforcement officials, criminal justice practitioners, academics, and civil rights organizations.\n\nCongress first proposed bipartisan legislation to reform crack cocaine sentencing in 2001, when Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) introduced the Drug Sentencing Reform Act. This proposal would have raised the amount of crack cocaine necessary for a five-year mandatory minimum from 5 grams to 20 grams and would have lowered the amount of powder cocaine necessary for the same sentence from 500 grams to 400 grams, a 20:1 ratio. During the 110th United States Congress, seven crack cocaine sentencing reform bills were introduced that would have reduced the sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine offenses without increasing mandatory sentences.\n\nIn the Senate, Orrin Hatch (R-UT) sponsored the Fairness in Drug Sentencing Act of 2007 (S. 1685) that would have created a 20:1 ratio by increasing the five-year quantity trigger for mandatory minimum sentences for crack cocaine to 25 grams and leaving the powder cocaine level at 500 grams. Former senator and former Vice President of the United States Joe Biden sponsored the Drug Sentencing Reform and Cocaine Kingpin Trafficking Act of 2007 (S. 1711), which would have completely eliminated the disparity by increasing the amount of crack cocaine required for the imposition of mandatory minimum prison terms to those of powder cocaine.\n\nBoth of these bills would have eliminated the five-year mandatory minimum prison term for first-time possession of crack cocaine. In the House of Representatives, Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) sponsored the Drug Sentencing Reform and Cocaine Kingpin Trafficking Act of 2007 (H.R. 4545), the companion to Biden's proposed bill. Charles Rangel sponsored the Crack-Cocaine Equitable Sentencing Act of 2007 (H.R. 460), a bill he had been introducing since the mid-1990s that would have equalized cocaine sentencing and eliminated specified mandatory minimum penalties relating to the trafficking in, and possession, importation, or distribution of, crack cocaine.\n\nThe proposed FIRST STEP Act would retroactively apply the Fair Sentencing Act, aiding around 2,600 prisoners.\n\nSome members of Congress opposed the Act. Lamar S. Smith (R-TX), the top-ranking Republican on the United States House Committee on the Judiciary, argued against its passage stating, \"I cannot support legislation that might enable the violent and devastating crack cocaine epidemic of the past to become a clear and present danger.\" Specifically, Smith alleged that because \"reducing the penalties for crack cocaine could expose our neighborhoods to the same violence and addiction that caused Congress to act in the first place,\" the bill risked a return to the crack cocaine epidemic that \"ravaged our communities, especially minority communities.\" Smith claimed that the severe sentences for crack cocaine were justified by a high correlation between crack cocaine arrests and both violent crime and past criminal history.\n\nThe Fraternal Order of Police, a national organization of law enforcement officers, also opposed the Act. It argued that because increased violence is associated with the use of crack, especially in urban areas, high penalties for crack-related offenses were justified, relying on U.S. Sentencing Commission statistics showing that 29% of all crack cases from October 1, 2008, through September 30, 2009, involved a weapon, compared to only 16% for powder cocaine. The organization also stated that the enhanced penalties for crack cocaine \"have proven useful, and a better course of action would have been to instead raise the penalties for powder cocaine crimes.\" The Fair Sentencing Act includes a provision to account for such aggravated cases, allowing penalties to be increased for the use of violence during a drug trafficking offense.\n\nThe National Sheriffs' Association (NSA) opposed the bill, stating that \"Both crack and powder cocaine are dangerous narcotics and plights on communities throughout the United States. ... NSA would consider supporting legislation that would increase the sentence for powder cocaine, rather than significantly reducing the sentence for crack cocaine.\"\n\nOn July 29, 2009, the United States House Committee on the Judiciary passed proposed legislation, the Fairness in Cocaine Sentencing Act (H.R.3245), a bill sponsored by Bobby Scott. Co-sponsored by a group of 62 members of the U.S. House of Representatives, including Dennis Kucinich and Ron Paul, the bill would have completely eliminated the sentencing disparity. The Fair Sentencing Act was introduced as compromise legislation to get bipartisan and unanimous support, amended to merely reduce the 100:1 disparity to 18:1.\n\nThe Fair Sentencing Act (S. 1789) was authored by Assistant Senate Majority Leader Dick Durbin (D-IL) and cosponsored by Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and ranking member Jeff Sessions (R-AL). The bill passed the U.S. Senate on March 17, 2010 and passed the U.S. House of Representatives on July 27, 2010, with House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn (D-SC) and Bobby Scott (D-VA) as key supporters. The bill was then sent to President Obama and signed into law on August 3, 2010.\n\nThe Fair Sentencing Act of 2010 amended the Controlled Substances Act and the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act by increasing the amount of a controlled substance or mixture containing a cocaine base (i.e., crack cocaine) that would result in mandatory minimum prison terms for trafficking and by increasing monetary penalties for drug trafficking and for importing/exporting controlled substances. The five-year mandatory minimum for first-time possession of crack cocaine was also eliminated, and sentencing may take account of accompanying violence, among other aggravating factors.\n\nThe bill directed the United States Sentencing Commission to take four actions:\n\nIn addition, the bill requires the Comptroller General to report to Congress with an analysis of the effectiveness of drug court programs under the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968. This must be done within one year after the enactment of the Fair Sentencing Act.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office has estimated that implementing the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010 will reduce the prison population by 1,550 person-years over the time period from 2011–2015, creating a monetary savings of $42 million during that period. The CBO also estimates that the Act's requirement for the Government Accountability Office to conduct a report on the effectiveness of a Department of Justice grant program to treat nonviolent drug offenders would cost less than $500,000 from appropriated funds.\n\nOn October 15, 2010, the U.S. Sentencing Commission voted 6-1 to approve a temporary amendment to federal sentencing guidelines to reflect the changes made by the Fair Sentencing Act. The Commission changed the sentencing guidelines to reflect Congress's increasing the amount of crack cocaine that would trigger a five-year mandatory minimum sentence from 5 grams to 28 grams (one ounce) and the amount that would trigger a ten-year mandatory minimum from 50 grams to 280 grams. The amendment also lists aggravating factors to the guidelines, creating harsher sentences for crack cocaine offenses involving violence or bribery of law enforcement officials. The Commission made the amendment permanent on June 30, 2011.\n\nEffective November 1, 2011, the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010 applies retroactively to reduce the sentences of certain offenders already sentenced for federal crack cocaine offenses before the passage of the bill. However, the nonprofit organization Families Against Mandatory Minimums, a major advocate of the Fair Sentencing Act, has lobbied Congress to make the entire act retroactive. According to Gil Kerlikowske, Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, \"there is no scientific basis for the disparity and by promoting laws and policies that treat all Americans equally, and by working to amend or end those that do not, we can only increase public confidence in the criminal justice system and help create a safer and healthier nation for us all.\"\n\nProgressives argue for elimination of the sentencing disparity altogether and believe that the impact of the bill on racial disparities in drug enforcement may be limited for several reasons. First, while the bill reduces the ratio between crack and powder cocaine sentencing, it does not achieve full parity. Second, the Act does not address the enforcement prerogatives of federal criminal justice agencies: while African-American defendants account for roughly 80% of those arrested for crack-related offenses, public health data has found that two-thirds of crack users are white or Hispanic. Third, the Act does not reduce sentences for those prosecuted under state law, and state prosecutions account for a vast majority of incarcerations for drug-related offenses.\n\n"}
{"id": "47093367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47093367", "title": "Fred Keating", "text": "Fred Keating\n\nFrederic Serrano Keating (March 27, 1901 – June 29, 1961), most well known as Fred Keating, was an American magician, stage and film actor.\n\nKeating was born in New York City, the son of Frederick Keating (Senior), a lawyer, and Camille Serrano, a singer. He was of Irish-Spanish heritage. His parents divorced when he was young. He became interested in magic from an early age. He became well known for performing a disappearing canary cage trick. Keating also performed a trick where he swallowed needles and pulled them threaded, out of his mouth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53165055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53165055", "title": "Gertrude Ansell", "text": "Gertrude Ansell\n\nGertrude Mary Ansell (2 June 1861 – 7 March 1932) was a British suffragette, animal rights activist and businesswoman.\n\nAnsell was the third child and only daughter of the metallurgist George Frederick Ansell (1826–1880) and his wife, Sarah (\"née\" Cook). Her father had, in 1856, been appointed to a clerkship in the Royal Mint with a brief to eliminate waste and mismanagement but was forced to give up his position in 1868. He died in 1880 leaving his family little; in 1881 Gertrude Ansell was working in a telephone office. By 1900, she had set up in business as a \"typewriter\".\n\nGertrude Ansell's thinking was dominated by the welfare of animals and the enfranchisement of women. In 1909, she became honorary treasurer of the Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society and one of the organisers of that year's International Anti-Vivisection and Animal Protection Congress. She believed that the economic position of women would never be satisfactory without political freedom and in December 1906 she joined the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU). On 13 October 1908, she was arrested after taking part in a WSPU \"raid\" on the House of Commons and was sentenced to one month's imprisonment in Holloway Prison.\n\nDuring the next five years, Ansell took part in all of the major WSPU spectacles, but she had given an undertaking to one of her animal committees not to take part in militant activity. She worked for the \"Dogs Exemption Bill\" and the \"Plumage Bill\", but when they were rejected by the House of Commons in 1913 she returned to WSPU actions. On 31 July, she smashed a window at the Home Office and was sentenced to a month's imprisonment. She went on hunger strike and was released under the \"Cat and Mouse Act\". She was rearrested on 30 October at Holborn tube station while selling the WSPU's newspaper, \"The Suffragette\". The criminal record office had circulated her photograph and description as a \"known militant suffragette\" (5 feet 4 inches, grey eyes, hair turning grey). She then followed a pattern of hunger strike, release, rearrest and imprisonment until she managed to evade the police.\n\nOn 12 May 1914, she smashed Hubert von Herkomer's portrait of the Duke of Wellington in the Royal Academy with an axe, causing £15 worth of damage. When arrested, she was reported to have said, \"I have done my duty, and I wish that every other woman would do the same.\" She was sentenced to six months' imprisonment but this time she was not released and, because she continued her hunger and thirst strike, she was forcibly fed.\n\nShe was finally released on 10 August, under an amnesty for suffragette prisoners at the outbreak of the First World War. She had been forcibly fed 236 times.\n\nOne of her brothers was the barrister J. E. Ansell, who later published a history of the family name. It was to his children that Gertrude Ansell left her small estate. She died at the General Hospital in Saffron Walden on 7 March 1932 following an operation for gallstones.\n\n"}
{"id": "23529707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23529707", "title": "Gottschalk Medal", "text": "Gottschalk Medal\n\nThe Gottschalk Medal is awarded every year by the Australian Academy of Science to recognize outstanding research by Australian scientists under 40 years of age for research in the medical sciences conducted mainly in Australia. \n\nThis medal commemorates the work of the late Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, FAA and has been awarded every year since 1979.\n\n\"Sources:\" \n"}
{"id": "9856961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9856961", "title": "Green seniors", "text": "Green seniors\n\nGreen seniors refers to elderly or retired people who have an active interest in environmental issues.\n\nThe term is believed to have first been publicly used by the European Green Party in the 2005 Declaration Of Brussels, and has been subsequently discussed by various Green Parties in Europe without wider uptake as a generic term.\n\nThe demographics of the modern environmental movement tend to be skewed towards younger people (sometimes referred to as \"Generation Y\"; with the exception of a smaller number of \"elder statespersons\" who were involved in the birth of the modern environmental movement. This is demonstrated clearly in the membership profiles of organisations such as Greenpeace, Rainforest Action Network and People and Planet, who all classify themselves as Direct Action groups.\n\nA website called Green Seniors was launched in 2006 to attempt to give the term wider currency and provide a portal specifically for older people to access information and find environmental organisation and campaigns.\n\n"}
{"id": "15724618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15724618", "title": "House of Iturbide", "text": "House of Iturbide\n\nThe House of Iturbide () is the former Imperial House of Mexico. It was founded by Don Agustín de Iturbide in 1822 when the newly-independent Mexican congress confirmed his title of Agustín I, Constitutional Emperor of Mexico. He was baptized with the names of Saints Cosmas and Damian at the cathedral there. The lastname Iturbide was originally from the Basque Country, Spain.\n\nAfter Mexico was declared and recognized as an independent state, Iturbide was backed and influenced by Mexico's conservatives, who favored an independent Mexico with a monarch from one of the European royal families as head of state. When no European royalty accepted Mexico's offer (as Spain still had hopes of taking Mexico back), Iturbide was persuaded by his advisers to be named \"Emperor\" in the manner of Napoleon I.\n\nOn 11 May 1823, the ex-emperor boarded the English ship \"Rawlins\", en route to Livorno, Italy (then part of the Grand Duchy of Tuscany, accompanied by his wife, children and some servants. There, he rented a small country house and began to write his memoirs. However, Spain pressured Tuscany to expel Iturbide, which it did, and the Iturbide family moved to the United Kingdom. There, he published his autobiography, \"Statement of Some of the Principal Events in the Public Life of Agustín de Iturbide\". When he was exiled, Iturbide was given a government pension, but Congress also declared him a traitor and \"outside of the law\", to be killed if he ever returned to Mexico. Whether he was aware of this second part is in dispute.\n\nAfter his departure, the situation in Mexico continued to worsen. Reports of a probable Spanish attempt to retake Mexico reached Iturbide in the UK. He continued to receive reports from Mexico, as well as advice from supporters, that if he returned, he would be hailed as a liberator and a potential leader against the Spanish invasion. Iturbide sent word to congress in Mexico City on 13 February 1824 offering his services in the event of a Spanish attack. Congress never replied. More conservative political factions in Mexico finally convinced Iturbide to return.\"\n\nIturbide returned to Mexico on 14 July 1824, accompanied by his wife, two children, and a chaplain. He landed at the port of Soto la Marina on the coast of Nuevo Santander (the modern-day state of Tamaulipas). They were initially greeted enthusiastically, but soon they were arrested and escorted by General Felipe de la Garza, the local military commander, to the nearby village of Padilla. The local legislature held a trial and sentenced Iturbide to death. When a local priest administered last rites, Iturbide supposedly said, \"Mexicans! I die with honor, not as a traitor; do not leave this stain on my children and my legacy. I am not a traitor, no.\" He was executed by firing squad on 19 July 1824.\n\nIn 1863, the Mexican Congress, with the support of Napoleon III of France, attempted to establish a monarchy under Austrian Archduke Ferdinand Maximilian as Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico. Maximilian adopted two grandsons of the first Mexican emperor, Agustín de Iturbide y Green and Salvador de Iturbide y Marzán, as his heirs. The two Iturbide cousins were granted the title of \"Prince de Iturbide\" and style of \"Highness\" by imperial decree of 16 September 1865 and were ranked after the reigning family. In 1867, Maximilian was deposed and executed on the orders of Benito Juárez.\n\nChildren:\n\n"}
{"id": "31066335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31066335", "title": "Indian immigration to Mexico", "text": "Indian immigration to Mexico\n\nIndian Mexicans are Mexican citizens who are descendants of migrants from India. Indians are a minor, but increasing, group in Mexico and are particularly active in the country's tech industry.\n\nThe first Indians arrived in Mexico during the colonial era. During this period, thousands of Asians arrived via the Manila galleons, some of them as slaves termed \"chinos\" or \"indios chinos\" (literally Chinese, regardless of actual ethnicity). The first record of an Asian in Mexico is from 1540; an enslaved cook originating from Calicut. The best known \"china\" was Catarina de San Juan, a girl captured by Portuguese slave traders in Cochin.\n\nIn 1923, immigration of ethnic Indians was secretly prohibited. The ban was kept confidential in order to avoid diplomatic problems with the British Empire. This ban, along with similar bans based on ethnicity, was eliminated by a 1947 law that prohibited racial discrimination.\n\nMost of the Indians in Mexico are recent arrivals in the country and almost all of them have settled in Mexico City. Mexico has a non-discriminatory policy with regard to the grant of its citizenship. The spouse of a Mexican national would generally not face any problem in acquiring local citizenship. Although a few of the NRIs have married Mexicans, they have retained their Indian citizenship.\n\nThe Indians in this country are mainly businessmen or professionals. Many of them work with one or other international organization or a multinational corporation. There are also some academicians and scientists among them. They have helped to bring about greater mutual understanding between India and their host country. Some of the Indians work for \"ISPAT Mexicana\" which is part of the Laxmi Mittal group, well known in this region for having turned around a sinking steel company in Trinidad. The Indian presence in Mexico has been greatly appreciated as fifty other business ventures have invested around US$1.58 billion in the country around 1994 to 2000.\n\nAccording to the Indian Ministry of External Affairs, there were about 2,000 Indians living in Mexico as of March 2011.\n\nThe main Indian community organisation is the Indian Women's Association of Mexico (IWAM)in Mexico City. It celebrates important festivals and organises cultural programmes. A Sai Baba temple, a Vaishnav temple, and a Gurudwara have also been constructed by Sangam Organisation in Mexico City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "307000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307000", "title": "Internaut", "text": "Internaut\n\nInternaut is a portmanteau of the words Internet and astronaut and refers to a designer, operator, or technically capable user of the Internet. Beginning with participants in the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), it gradually expanded to members of the Internet Society (ISoc) and the larger community.\n\nAn internaut is online savvy, typically through years of online experience, with a thorough knowledge of how to use search engines, Internet resources, forums, newsgroups and chat rooms to find information. The more someone knows about the Internet, its history and politics, the more likely the term \"internaut\" fits them. The less he or she knows the more likely a different term would be more fitting. Other terms roughly analogous with internaut are \"cybernaut\" and \"netizen\", though each has its own connotation. The common thread among them in English is an implication of experience and knowledge of the Internet or cyberspace that goes beyond the casual user. The French, however, use the term to describe any Internet user.\n\nThe creation of the World Wide Web by Tim Berners-Lee enabled non-technical computer experts to use the Internet in a simple and quick way, making it accessible to billions of people around the world. Berners-Lee filed his original proposal for the Web on 12 March 1989, while working at CERN, and the project was first publicly announced on 6 August 1991 on the \"alt.hypertext\" newsgroup. Both of these dates have been celebrated by media as the \"birthday of the Web\" or \"Internaut Day\".\n"}
{"id": "51870634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51870634", "title": "Kallumala Samaram", "text": "Kallumala Samaram\n\nKallumala Samaram (Stone Necklace Protest) is an agitation or social revolution by Pulayar community that took place at Perinad and nearby villages such as Cherumoodu, Kanjavely etc. in, Kollam district on October 24, 1915.\n\nThe agitation is also known as Perinad Lahala or Perinad Mutiny. It enjoys a significant position in Kerala history.\n\nThe agitation was a sudden uprising against the upper class's dictum to the minority castes to not use the public road, denying the right to education, prohibiting entry to temples and denying women to wear gold or metal ornaments.\n\nThe agitation intensified by December-end and a meeting was convened under the chair of Ayyankali on December 21, 1915 at Plavilapurayidom, Cherumoodu, near Perinad where women belonging to Pulaya community threw away the \"Kallumala\" (ornaments made out of stone and woods) and proclaimed that they will only use gold or metal ornaments. Kallumala's were chains of beads worn by their ladies as a symbol of slavery and inferior caste status.\n\nThrough this agitation the oppressed class fought the caste elites by breaking their chains to win the right to wear ornaments.\n\nDuring pre-independence era women from lower castes in Kerala faced severe unfathomable oppression. There were strict diktats regarding dress codes and ornaments and there was even taxes to be paid to erstwhile Travancore kings for covering their breasts.\n\n"}
{"id": "18623028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18623028", "title": "Koreans in Paraguay", "text": "Koreans in Paraguay\n\nKoreans in Paraguay formed one of the earliest Korean diaspora communities in Latin America. However, they were always overshadowed by the larger Korean communities in neighbouring Brazil and Argentina, and since the late 1990s, their population has fallen significantly.\n\nThe first Korean immigrants to Paraguay came from Busan on a two-month journey by sea to Buenos Aires and then overland to Asunción, finally arriving on 22 April 1965. Exact numbers of migrants are difficult to calculate because Paraguay offered on-the-spot visas to all foreigners, and did not distinguish between those who came to settle in the country as opposed to those who intended to remain only temporarily; 120,000 Koreans arrived in Paraguay between 1975 and 1990, according to official figures, but many migrated onwards to Brazil, both legally and illegally. Paraguay's 1982 census showed 2,700 Koreans in Paraguay, but this was believed to have undercounted the actual population by as much as an order of magnitude. By 1999, South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade estimated that 10,428 Koreans resided in the country, but by just two years later, that figure fell by more than 40% to 6,190.\n\nThe population continued to decline after that, though less sharply; , Koreans in Paraguay had fallen to the fifth-largest group of Koreans in Latin America, and 24th largest in the world. Between 2009 and 2011, the population remained roughly stable. Of the 5,205 South Korean nationals or former nationals in Paraguay in 2011, 499 had become Paraguayan nationals, the vast majority (4,641 persons) had permanent residency, 16 were international students, and 49 had other kinds of visas.\n\nThe early Korean migrants who settled in Paraguay engaged in a variety of agricultural and commercial work, including beekeeping and door-to-door sales of imported clothing. By the early 1980s, many were involved in importing consumer electronics as well. Some also opened convenience stores in poorer neighbourhoods; they gained attention for remaining open through the siesta, unlike many of their competitors. The second generation have largely moved away from manual labour or small retail business, and entered into the liberal professions, such as medicine, law, pharmacy, architecture, and accountancy.\n\nKoreans in Paraguay opened their own school in 1972, the Colegio Coreano del Paraguay (파라과이한국학교), to provide cultural and language education to their youth. It is located in the San Vicente neighbourhood of Asunción. A Korean American Presbyterian church opened another school, the Colegio Presbiteriano Cerritos, in Villa Elisa (in the Asunción metropolitan area) in 1992.\n\nLittle language shift is observed from Korean-dominance to Spanish-dominance among members of the Korean community in Paraguay, including those born locally; this contrasts sharply with the rapid shift from Korean-dominance to English-dominance among Korean Americans, especially of the second generation. Many Koreans in Paraguay send their children to study in universities in the United States and Europe; as of 2007, there were also roughly 100 Paraguay-born Koreans studying at universities in South Korea. They typically view English, rather than Spanish, as the most prestigious and economically important language to learn.\n\nKorean Christian missionaries are active among indigenous communities in Alto Paraná department. Korean churches in Ciudad del Este include Jardín del Dios and Iglesia de la Asamblea de Dios.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44337877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44337877", "title": "Kurds in Finland", "text": "Kurds in Finland\n\nKurds in Finland refers to Kurds living in Finland. In 2017 there were 13,327 Kurdish speakers in Finland and the number of ethnic Kurds is probably higher.\n\nSome of the Finnish Kurds originate from Turkey and Iran, but most of them have come from Iraq, where they started arriving from in the 1990s as UNHCR quota refugees. Kurds make up the majority of Iraqi immigrants to Finland. After ISIL gained ground against the Peshmerga in Iraqi Kurdistan the Finnish Kurds organized protests against ISIL. According to the chairman of Finnish-Kurdish friendship association several dozens of Finnish Kurds had left to Syria and Iraq in order to fight against ISIL.\n\nFinnish Kurds speak several different dialects of Kurdish, the largest of which are Sorani and Kurmanji Kurdish. Kurmanji has more speakers worldwide, but Sorani is the most spoken Kurdish dialect in Finland. It is likelly that there are more ethnic Kurds than there are those who speak it as a first language. For example, some of the Kurds who originate from Turkey speak Turkish rather than Kurdish. There are several different Kurdish organizations in Finland, many of which have direct or undirect connections to political parties in Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nAlmost all Finnish Kurds are Muslim and in the Iraqi Kurdistan, where the most Finnish Kurds hail from, most Kurds are Sunni Muslim. Kurds are not however usually very active in religious life, since many of them have leftist and secular political background.\n"}
{"id": "9773410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9773410", "title": "Lauan language", "text": "Lauan language\n\nLauan is an East Fijian language spoken by about 16,000 people on a number of islands of eastern Fiji.\n\n"}
{"id": "56135878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56135878", "title": "List of graphic art works with LGBT characters", "text": "List of graphic art works with LGBT characters\n\nThis is a list of graphic art works with LGBT characters. This list includes gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender fictional characters in comic series, newspaper strips, graphic novels, and manga.\n\nIn the 1950s, American comic books, under the Comics Code Authority, adopted the Comic Code which, under the guise of preventing \"perversion\", largely prevented the presentation of LGBT characters for a number of decades.\n\nWithin the Japanese anime and manga, \"yaoi\" is the tradition of representing same-sex male relationships in materials that are generally created by women artists and marketed mostly for Japanese girls while the genre known as \"yuri\" focuses on relationships between women.\n\n"}
{"id": "19037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19037", "title": "Macedonian language", "text": "Macedonian language\n\nMacedonian (; , \"makedonski\", ) is a South Slavic language spoken as a first language by around two million people, principally in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian diaspora, with a smaller number of speakers throughout the transnational region of Macedonia. It is the official language of the Republic of Macedonia and a recognized minority language in parts of Albania, Romania and Serbia.\n\nStandard Macedonian was implemented as the official language of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia in 1945 and has since developed a modern literature. Most of the codification was formalized during the same period.\n\nMacedonian dialects form a continuum with Bulgarian dialects; they in turn form a broader continuum with Serbo-Croatian through the transitional Torlakian dialects.\n\nThe name of the Macedonian language, as well as is its distinctiveness compared to Bulgarian, are a matter of political controversy in Bulgaria.\n\nThe modern Macedonian language belongs to the eastern group of the South Slavic branch of Slavic languages in the Indo-European language family, together with Bulgarian and the extinct Old Church Slavonic. Macedonian's closest relative is Bulgarian, with which it has a high degree of mutual intelligibility. The next closest relative is Serbo-Croatian. Language contact between Macedonian and Serbo-Croatian reached its height during Yugoslav times, when most Macedonians learned Serbo-Croatian as a compulsory language of education and knew and used Serbian (or \"pseudo-Serbian\", i.e. a mixture of Serbian and Macedonian). There have been also claims, that Macedonian was intentionally Serbianized first during the process of its standardization.\n\nAll South Slavic languages, including Macedonian, form a dialect continuum. Macedonian, along with Bulgarian and Torlakian (transitional varieties of Serbo-Croatian), is also a part of the Balkan sprachbund, a group of languages that share typological, grammatical and lexical features based on geographical convergence, rather than genetic proximity. Its other principal members are Romanian, Greek and Albanian, all of which belong to different genetic branches of the Indo-European family (Romanian is a Romance language, whereas Greek and Albanian comprise separate branches). Macedonian and Bulgarian are sharply divergent from the remaining South Slavic languages, Serbo-Croatian and Slovene, and indeed all other Slavic languages, in that they do not use noun cases (except for the vocative, and apart from some traces of once productive inflections still found scattered throughout the languages) and have lost the infinitive. They are also the only Slavic languages with any definite articles (unlike standard Bulgarian, which uses only one article, standard Macedonian as well as some south-eastern Bulgarian dialects have a set of three based on an external frame of reference: unspecified, proximal and distal definite article). Bulgarian and Macedonian are the only Indo-European languages that make use of the narrative mood.\n\nPrior to the codification of the standard language (Standard Macedonian), Macedonian dialects were described by linguists as being either dialects of Bulgarian or Serbian. Similarly, Torlakian was also widely regarded as Bulgarian. The boundaries between the South Slavic languages had yet to be \"conceptualized in modern terms,\" and codifiers of Serbian even found it necessary to argue that Bulgarian was not a Serbian dialect as late as 1822. On the other hand, many Macedonian intellectuals maintained that their language \"was neither a dialect of Serbian nor of Bulgarian, but a language in its own right\". Prior to the standardization of Macedonian, a number of linguists, among them Antoine Meillet, André Vaillant, Mieczysław Małecki, and Samuil Bernstein, also considered Macedonian dialects as comprising an independent language distinct from both Bulgarian and Serbian. Some linguists, including Otto Kronsteiner and Michael Clyne, especially in Bulgaria, still consider Macedonian a variety or dialect of Bulgarian, but this view is politically controversial:\n\nAccording to Olga Mišeska–Tomić:\n\nModern questions of classification are largely shaped by political and social factors. Structurally, Macedonian, Bulgarian and southeastern forms of Serbo-Croatian (Torlakian) form a dialectical continuum that is a legacy of the linguistic developments during the height of the Preslav and Ohrid literary schools.\n\nAlthough it has been claimed that Standard Macedonian was codified on the base of those dialects (i.e. the Prilep-Bitola dialect) most unlike Bulgarian, this interpretation stems from the works of Krste Misirkov, who suggested that Standard Macedonian should abstract on those dialects \"most distinct from the standards of the other Slavonic languages\". Likewise, this view does not take into account the fact that a Macedonian koiné language was already in existence. The codifiers ultimately chose the same dialects, but did so because they were \"most widespread and most likely to be adopted by speakers of other dialects.\"\n\nThe population of the Republic of Macedonia was 2,022,547 in 2002, with 1,644,815 speaking Macedonian as their native language. Outside the Republic, there are Macedonians living in other parts of the geographical area of Macedonia. There are ethnic Macedonian minorities in neighbouring Albania, in Bulgaria, in Greece, and in Serbia. According to the official Albanian census of 1989, 4,697 ethnic Macedonians reside in Albania.\n\nA large number of Macedonians live outside the traditional Balkan Macedonian region, with Australia, Canada and the United States having the largest emigrant communities. According to a 1964 estimate, approximately 580,000 Macedonians live outside the Macedonian Republic, nearly 30% of the total population. The Macedonian language has the status of official language only in the Republic of Macedonia, and is a recognized minority and official language in parts of Albania (Pustec), Romania, and Serbia (Jabuka and Plandište). There are provisions for learning the Macedonian language in Romania as Macedonians are an officially recognized minority group. Macedonian is taught in some universities in Australia, Canada, Croatia, Italy, Poland, Russia, Serbia, the United States, the United Kingdom, and other countries.\n\nThe varieties spoken by the Slavophone minority in parts of northern Greece, especially those in the Greek provinces of West and Central Macedonia, are today usually classified as part of the Macedonian language, with those in East Macedonia being transitional towards Bulgarian. Bulgarian linguistics traditionally regards them all as part of the Bulgarian language together with the rest of Macedonian. However, the codification of standard Macedonian has been in effect only in the Republic of Macedonia, and the Slavonic dialects spoken in Greece are thus practically \"roofless\", with their speakers having little access to standard or written Macedonian.\n\nMost of the language speakers in Greece do not identify ethnically as \"Macedonians\", but as ethnic Greeks (\"Slavophone Greeks\") or \"dopii\" (locals). Therefore, the simple term \"Macedonian\" as a name for the Slavic language is often avoided in the Greek context, and vehemently rejected by most Greeks, for whom \"Macedonian\" has very different connotations. Instead, the language is often called simply \"Slavic\" or \"Slavomacedonian\", with \"Macedonian Slavic\" often being used in English. Speakers themselves variously refer to their language as \"makedonski\", \"makedoniski\" (\"Macedonian\"), \"slaviká\" (, \"Slavic\"), \"dópia\" or \"entópia\" (, \"local/indigenous [language]\"), \"balgàrtzki\" in some parts of the region of Kastoria, \"bògartski\" (\"Bulgarian\") in some parts of Dolna Prespa along with \"naši\" (\"our own\") and \"stariski\" (\"old\"). In Kastoria, however, the name \"Macedonian\" is used as well by the local people.\n\nThe exact number of speakers in Greece is difficult to ascertain, with estimates ranging between 20,000 and 250,000. Jacques Bacid estimates in his 1983 book that \"over 200,000 Macedonian speakers remained in Greece\". Other sources put the numbers of speakers at 180,000 220,000 and 250,000, whereas Yugoslav sources vary, some putting the estimated number of \"Macedonians in Greek Macedonia\" at 150,000–200,000 and others at 300,000. The \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" and the Reader's Digest World Guide both put the figure of ethnic Macedonians in Greece at 1.8% or c.200,000 people, with the native language roughly corresponding with the figures. The UCLA also states that there are 200,000 Macedonian speakers in Greece. A 2008 article in the Greek newspaper \"Eleftherotypia\" put the estimate at 20,000.\n\nThe largest group of speakers are concentrated in the Florina, Kastoria, Edessa, Giannitsa, Ptolemaida and Naousa regions. During the Greek Civil War, the codified Macedonian language was taught in 87 schools with 10,000 students in areas of northern Greece under the control of Communist-led forces, until their defeat by the National Army in 1949. In recent years, there have been attempts to have the language recognized as a minority language.\n\nThe historical and linguistic relationships between the Macedonian and Bulgarian languages are special and complicated. Macedonian researchers claim Macedonian is spoken in southwestern Bulgaria, whereas Bulgarian and Greek linguists argue Macedonian is a variety of Bulgarian.\n\nThe rise of nationalism under the Ottoman Empire began to degrade its specific social system, and especially the so-called Rum millet, through constant identification of the religious creed with ethnicity. The national awakening of each ethnic group was complex and most of the groups interacted with each other.\n\nDuring the Bulgarian national revival, which occurred in the first half of the 19th century, the Bulgarian and Macedonian Slavs under the supremacy of the Greek Orthodox clergy wanted to create their own Church and schools which would use a common modern \"Macedono-Bulgarian\" literary standard, called simply \"Bulgarian\". The national elites active in this movement used mainly ethnolinguistic principles to differentiation between \"Slavic-Bulgarian\" and \"Greek\" groups. At that time, every ethnographic subgroup in the Macedonian-Bulgarian linguistic area wrote in their own local dialect and choosing a \"base dialect\" for the new standard was not an issue. Subsequently, during the 1850s and 1860s a long discussion was held in the Bulgarian periodicals about the need for a dialectal group (eastern, western or compromise) upon which to base the new standard and which dialect that should be. During the 1870s this issue became contentious, and sparked fierce debates.\n\nIn 1878, a distinct Bulgarian state was established. The new state did not include the region of Macedonia which remained outside its borders in the frame of the Ottoman Empire. As a consequence, the idea of a common compromise standard was rejected by the Bulgarian codifiers during the 1880s and the eastern Bulgarian dialects were chosen as a basis for standard Bulgarian. Macedono-Bulgarian writers and organizations who continued to seek greater representation of Macedonian dialects in the Bulgarian standard were deemed separatists. One example is the Young Macedonian Literary Association, which the Bulgarian government outlawed in 1892. Though standard Bulgarian was taught in the local schools in Macedonia till 1913, the fact of political separation became crucial for the development of a separate Macedonian language.\n\nWith the advent of Macedonian nationalism, the idea of linguistic separatism emerged in the late 19th century, and the need for a separate Macedonian standard language subsequently appeared in the early 20th century. In the Interwar period, the territory of today's Republic of Macedonia became part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Bulgarian was banned for use and the local vernacular fell under heavy influence from the official Serbo-Croatian language. However, the political and paramilitary organizations of the Macedonian Slavs in Europe and the Americas, the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO) and the Macedonian Patriotic Organization (MPO), and even their left-wing offsets, the IMRO (United) and the Macedonian-American People's League continued to use literary Bulgarian in their writings and propaganda in the interbellum. During the World wars Bulgaria's short annexations over Macedonia saw two attempts to bring the Macedonian dialects back towards Bulgarian. This political situation stimulated the necessity of a separate Macedonian language and led gradually to its codification after the Second World War. It followed the establishment of SR Macedonia, as part of Communist Yugoslavia and finalized the\nprogressive split in the common Macedonian–Bulgarian language.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century the national identity of the Macedonian Slavs shifted from predominantly Bulgarian to ethnic Macedonian and their regional identity had become their national one. Although, there was no clear separating line between these two languages on level of dialect then, the Macedonian standard was based on its westernmost dialects. Afterwards, Macedonian became the official language in the new republic, Serbo-Croatian was adopted as a second official language, and Bulgarian was proscribed. Moreover, in 1946–1948 the newly standardized Macedonian language was introduced as a second language even in Southwestern Bulgaria. Subsequently, the sharp and continuous deterioration of the political relationships between the two countries, the influence of both standard languages during the time, but also the strong Serbo-Croatian linguistic influence in Yugoslav era, led to a horizontal cross-border dialectal divergence. Although some researchers have described the standard Macedonian and Bulgarian languages as varieties of a pluricentric language, they in fact have separate dialectal bases; the Prilep-Bitola dialect and Central Balkan dialect, respectively. The prevailing academic consensus (outside of Bulgaria and Greece) is that Macedonian and Bulgarian are two autonomous languages within the eastern subbranch of the South Slavic languages. Macedonian is thus an \"ausbau language\"; i.e. it is delimited from Bulgarian as these two standard languages have separate dialectal bases.\n\nThe total number of Macedonian speakers is highly disputed. Although the precise number of speakers is unknown, figures of between 1.6 million (from Ethnologue) and 2–2.5 million have been cited; see and . The general academic consensus is that there are approximately 2 million speakers of the Macedonian language, accepting that \"it is difficult to determine the total number of speakers of Macedonian due to the official policies of the neighbouring Balkan states and the fluid nature of emigration\" . According to the censuses and figures, the number of speakers of Macedonian is:\n\nBased on a large group of features, Macedonian dialects can be divided into Eastern and Western groups (the boundary runs approximately from Skopje and Skopska Crna Gora along the rivers Vardar and Crna). In addition, a more detailed classification can be based on the modern reflexes of the Proto-Slavic reduced vowels (yers), vocalic sonorants, and the back nasal *ǫ. That classification distinguishes between the following 5 groups:\n\nWestern Dialects:\n\nEastern Dialects:\n\nThe Ser-Drama-Lagadin-Nevrokop dialect and Maleševo-Pirin dialect are also considered Bulgarian dialects.\n\nThis discusses the phonological system of Standard Macedonian (unless otherwise noted) based on the Prilep-Bitola dialect. For discussion of other dialects, see Macedonian dialects. Macedonian possesses five vowels, one semivowel, three liquid consonants, three nasal stops, three pairs of fricatives, two pairs of affricates, a non-paired voiceless fricative, nine pairs of voiced and unvoiced consonants and four pairs of stops.\n\nSchwa\nThe schwa is phonemic in many dialects (varying in closeness to or ) but its use in the standard language is marginal. When writing a dialectal word and keeping the schwa for aesthetic effect, an apostrophe is used; for example, , , etc. When spelling aloud, each consonant is followed by the schwa. The individual letters of acronyms are pronounced with the schwa in the same way: (). The lexicalized acronyms () and () (a brand of cigarettes), are among the few exceptions.\n\nVowel length\nVowel length is not phonemic. Vowels in stressed open syllables in disyllablic words with stress on the penult can be realized as long, e.g. 'Veles'. The sequence is often realized phonetically as ; e.g. \"'colloq.\" hour'.\n\n The alveolar trill () is syllabic between two consonants; for example, 'finger'. The dental nasal () and dental lateral () are also syllabic in certain foreign words; e.g. 'newton', 'Popocatépetl', etc.\n\nThe labiodental nasal occurs as an allophone of before and (e.g. 'tram'). The velar nasal similarly occur as an allophone of before and (e.g. 'English'). The latter realization is avoided by some speakers who strive for a clear, formal pronunciation.\n\nAt morpheme boundaries (represented in spelling) and at the end of a word (not represented in spelling), voicing opposition is neutralized.\n\nThe word stress in Macedonian is antepenultimate, meaning it falls on the third from last syllable in words with three or more syllables, and on the first or only syllable in other words. This is sometimes disregarded when the word has entered the language more recently or from a foreign source. The following rules apply:\n\nFor example, 'child', 'mother' and 'father'.\n\nFor example, 'mountain', 'the mountain' and 'the mountaineers'.\n\nExceptions include:\n\nMacedonian grammar is markedly analytic in comparison with other Slavic languages, having lost the common Slavic case system. The Macedonian language shows some special and, in some cases, unique characteristics due to its central position in the Balkans. Literary Macedonian is the only South Slavic literary language that has three forms of the definite article, based on the degree of proximity to the speaker, and a perfect tense formed by means of an auxiliary verb \"to have\", followed by a past participle in the neuter, also known as the verbal adjective.\n\nMacedonian nouns (именки, \"imenki\") belong to one of three genders (masculine, feminine, and neuter) and are inflected for number (singular and plural), and marginally for case. The gender opposition is not distinctively marked in the plural. The Macedonian nominal system distinguishes two numbers (singular and plural), three genders (masculine, feminine, and neuter), case and definiteness. Definiteness is expressed by three definite articles pertaining to the position of the object (unspecified, proximate, and distal), which are suffixed to the noun.\n\nMacedonian has a complex system of verbs. Generally speaking Macedonian verbs have the following characteristics, or categories as they are called in Macedonistics: tense, mood, person, type, transitiveness, voice, gender and number.\n\nAccording to the categorization, all Macedonian verbs are divided into three major groups: a-group, e-group and i-group. Furthermore, the i-subgroup is divided into three more subgroups: a-, e- and i-subgroups. This division is done according to the ending (or the last vowel) of the verb in the simple present, singular, third person. Regarding the form, the verb forms can be either simple or complex.\n\nThe Macedonian simple verb forms are:\n\nThe Macedonian complex verb forms are:\nPrepositions (предлози, \"predlozi\") are part of the closed word class that are used to express the relationship between the words in a sentence. Because Macedonian lost its case system, the prepositions are very important for creation and expression of various grammatical categories. The most important Macedonian preposition is 'na' ('of', 'on', 'to'). Regarding the form, the prepositions can either be \"simple\" or \"complex\". Based on the meaning the preposition express, they can be divided into prepositions of \"time, place, manner\" and \"quantity\".\n\nAs a result of the close relationship with Bulgarian and Serbo-Croatian, Macedonian shares a considerable amount of its lexicon with these languages. Other languages that have been in positions of power, such as Ottoman Turkish and, increasingly, English have also provided a significant proportion of the loanwords. Prestige languages, such as Old Church Slavonic—which occupies a relationship to modern Macedonian comparable to the relationship of medieval Latin to modern Romance languages—and Russian also provided a source for lexical items.\n\nDuring the standardization process, there was deliberate care taken to try to purify the lexicon of the language. Serbianisms and Bulgarianisms, which had become common due to the influence of these languages in the region were rejected in favor of words from native dialects and archaisms. One example was the word for \"event\", \"настан\" , which was found in certain examples of folk poetry collected by the Miladinov Brothers in the 19th century, whereas the Macedonian writer Krste Misirkov had previously used the word \"собитие\" , a Russian loanword (\"событие\"). This is not to say that there are no Serbianisms, Bulgarianisms or even Russianisms in the language, but rather that they were discouraged on a principle of \"seeking native material first\".\n\nThe language of the writers at the turn of the 19th century abounded with Russian and, more specifically, Old Church Slavonic lexical and morphological elements that in the contemporary norm are substituted with native words or calqued using productive morphemes. Thus, the now slightly archaicized forms with suffixes –\"ние\" and –\"тел\", adjectives with the suffixes –\"телен\" and others, are now constructed following patterns more typical of Macedonian morphology. For example, \"дејствие\" (Russ. \"действие\") corresponds to \"дејство\" 'action', \"лицемерие\" (Russ. \"лицемерие\") → \"лицемерство\" 'hypocrisy', \"развитие\" (Russ. \"развитие\") → \"развиток\" 'development', \"определение\" (Russ. \"определение\") → \"определба\" 'determination, orientation', \"движение\" (Russ. \"движение\") → \"движење\" 'movement', \"продолжител\" (Russ. \"продолжитель\") → \"продолжувач\" 'extender, continuator', \"победител\" (Russ. \"победитель\") → \"победник\" 'winner, victor', \"убедителен\" (Russ. \"убедительный\") → \"убедлив\" 'convincing, persuasive', etc. Many of these words are now obsolete or archaic (as with \"развитие\"), synonymous (\"лицемерие\" and \"лицемерство\") or have taken on a slightly different nuance in meaning (\"дејствие\" 'military act' vs. \"дејство\" 'act, action' in a general sense).\n\nThe use of Ottoman Turkish loanwords is discouraged in the formal register when a native equivalent exists (e.g. \"комшија\" (← Turk. \"komşu\") vs. \"сосед\" (← PSl. *sǫsědъ) 'neighbor'), and these words are typically restricted to the archaic, colloquial, and ironic registers.\n\nNew words were coined according to internal logic and others calqued from related languages (especially Serbo-Croatian) to replace those taken from Russian, which include \"известие\" (Russ. \"известие\") → \"извештај\" 'report', \"количество\" (Russ. \"количество\") → \"количина\" 'amount, quantity', \"согласие\" (Russ. \"согласие\") → \"слога\" 'concord, agreement', etc. This change was aimed at bringing written Macedonian closer to the spoken language, effectively distancing it from the Bulgarian language with its numerous Russian loans, and represents a successful puristic attempt to abolish a lexicogenic tradition once common in written literature.\n\nThe modern Macedonian alphabet was developed by linguists in the period after the Second World War, who based their alphabet on the phonetic alphabet of Vuk Stefanović Karadžić, though a similar writing system was used by Krste Misirkov in the early 20th century. The Macedonian language had previously been written using the Early Cyrillic alphabet, or later using the Cyrillic script with local adaptations from either the Serbian or Bulgarian alphabets.\n\nThe following table provides the upper and lower case forms of the Macedonian alphabet, along with the IPA value for each letter:\n\nMacedonian orthography is consistent and phonemic in practice, an approximation of the principle of one grapheme per phoneme. A principle represented by Adelung's saying, \"write as you speak and read as it is written\" (\"пишувај како што зборуваш и читај како што е напишано\"). However, there are occasional inconsistencies or exceptions.\n\nThe Lord's Prayer\n\nThe region of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia are located on the Balkan peninsula. The Slavs first came to the Balkan Peninsula in the sixth and seventh centuries AD. In the ninth century, the Byzantine Greek monks Saints Cyril and Methodius developed the first writing system for the Slavonic languages. At this time, the Slavic dialects were so close as to make it practical to develop the written language on the dialect of a single region. The Ohrid Literary School was established in Ohrid in 886 by Saint Clement of Ohrid on orders of Boris I of Bulgaria. In the fourteenth century, the Ottoman Turks invaded and conquered most of the Balkans, incorporating Macedonia into the Ottoman Empire. Although the written language, now called Old Church Slavonic, remained static as a result of Turkish domination, the spoken dialects moved further apart.\n\nThe earliest lexicographic evidence of the Macedonian dialects, described as Bulgarian, can be found in a lexicon from the 16th century written in the Greek alphabet. The concept of the various Macedonian dialects as a part of the Bulgarian language can be seen also from early vernacular texts from Macedonia such as the four-language dictionary of Daniel Moscopolites, the works of Kiril Peichinovich and Yoakim Karchovski, and some vernacular gospels written in the Greek alphabet. These written works influenced by or completely written in the local Slavic vernacular appeared in Macedonia in the 18th and beginning of the 19th century and their authors referred to their language as Bulgarian.\n\nIn 1845 the Russian scholar Viktor Grigorovich travelled in the Balkans to study the south Slavic dialects of Macedonia. His work articulated for the first time a distinct pair of two groups of Bulgarian dialects: Eastern and Western (spoken in today Western Bulgaria and Republic of Macedonia). According to his findings, a part of the Western Bulgarian variety, spoken in Macedonia, was characterized by traces of Old Slavic nasal vowels. During the increase of national consciousness in the Balkans, standards for the languages of Slovene, Serbo-Croatian and Bulgarian were created. As Turkish influence in Macedonia waned, schools were opened up that taught the Bulgarian standard language in areas with significant Bulgarian population.\n\nHowever, the Russian linguist of Bulgarian origin, Petar Draganov (1857–1928), after his visit to Macedonia, strongly opposed this 'Bulgarian origin of the Macedonian dialects', and he claimed that Macedonia is a separate ethnogeographic unit of the Balkans and the Macedonian dialects form a separate language. Similar ideas were proposed in Krste Misirkov's works. Misirkov was born in a village near Pella in Greek Macedonia. Although literature had been written in the Slavic dialects of Macedonia before, arguably the most important book published in relation to the Macedonian language was Misirkov's \"On Macedonian Matters\", published in 1903. In that book, he argued for creation of a standard literary Macedonian language from the central dialects of Macedonia that would use a phonemic orthography.\n\nAfter the first two Balkan wars, the region of Macedonia was split between Greece, Bulgaria, and Serbia (later Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, Yugoslavia). Serbia occupied the area that is currently the Republic of Macedonia incorporating it into the Kingdom as \"Southern Serbia\". During this time, Yugoslav Macedonia became known as Vardar Banovina (Vardar province) and the language of public life, education and the church was Serbo-Croatian. In the other two parts of Macedonia the respective national languages, Greek and Bulgarian, were made official. In Bulgarian (Pirin) Macedonia, the local dialects continued to be described as dialects of Bulgarian.\nDuring the second World War, most of Yugoslav Macedonia was occupied by the Bulgarian army, who was allied with the Axis. The standard Bulgarian language was reintroduced in schools and liturgies. The Bulgarians were initially welcomed as liberators from Serbian domination until connections were made between the imposition of the Bulgarian language and unpopular Serbian assimilation policies. Even the Macedonian communists were then pro-Bulgarian oriented, but later the Bulgarians were seen as conquerors by the communist movement. However, there were pro-Bulgarian groups which advocated independence as a second Bulgarian state, and others, who supported the union with Bulgaria.\n\nThe eventual outcome was that almost all of Vardar Banovina (i.e. the areas that geographically became known as Vardar Macedonia) was incorporated into the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as a constituent Socialist Republic with the Macedonian language holding official status within both the Federation and Republic. The Macedonian language was proclaimed the official language of the Republic of Macedonia at the First Session of the Assembly for the National Liberation of Macedonia, held on August 2, 1944. The first official Macedonian grammar was developed by Krume Kepeski. One of the most important contributors in the standardisation of the Macedonian literary language was Blaže Koneski. The first document written in the literary standard Macedonian language is the first issue of the \"Nova Makedonija\" newspaper in 1944. \"Makedonska Iskra\" (Macedonian Spark) was the first Macedonian newspaper published in Australia, from 1946 to 1957. A monthly with national distribution, it commenced in Perth and later moved to Melbourne and Sydney.\n\nAs with the issue of Macedonian ethnicity, the politicians, linguists and common people from Macedonia and neighbouring countries have opposing views about the existence and distinctiveness of the Macedonian language.\n\nIn the ninth century AD, saints Cyril and Methodius introduced Old Church Slavonic, the first Slavic language of literacy. Written with their newly invented Glagolitic script, this language was based largely on the dialect of Slavs spoken around Thessaloniki; this dialect is closest to present-day Macedonian and Bulgarian.\n\nAlthough described as being dialects of Bulgarian or Serbian prior to the establishment of the standard, the current academic consensus (outside of Bulgaria) is that Macedonian is an autonomous language within the South Slavic dialect continuum.\n\nIn most sources in and out of Bulgaria before the Second World War, the southern Slavonic dialect continuum covering the area of today's Republic of Macedonia and Northern Greece was referred to as a group of Bulgarian dialects. The local variants of the name of the language were also \"balgàrtzki\", \"bùgarski\" or \"bugàrski\"; i.e. Bulgarian. Although Bulgaria was the first country to recognize the independence of the Republic of Macedonia, most of its academics, as well as the general public, regard the language spoken there as a form of Bulgarian. However, after years of diplomatic impasse caused by an academic dispute, in 1999 the government in Sofia solved the problem of the Macedonian language by using the euphemistic formula: \"the official language of the country (Republic of Macedonia) in accordance with its constitution\".\n\nGreeks were objecting to the use of the \"Macedonian\" name in reference to the modern Slavic language, calling it \"Slavomacedonian\" (), a term coined by some members of the Slavic-speaking community of northern Greece itself.\n\nIn 3 June 2018, the Greek Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Panagiotis Kouroublis, acknowledged that Greece fully recognizes the term \"Macedonian language\" for the modern Slavic language, since the 1977 UN Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names, a fact confirmed on 6 June by the Greek Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias, who stated that the language was recognized by the New Democracy-led government of that time. Kotzias also revealed classified documents confirming the use of the term \"Macedonian Language\" by the past governments of Greece, as well as pointing out to official statements of the Greek Prime Minister Evangelos Averoff who in 1954 and 1959 used the term \"Macedonian language\" to refer to the South Slavic language.\nA week later, on 12 June, the Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev, announced that the recognition of the Macedonian language by Greece is reaffirmed in the Prespa agreement.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5474046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5474046", "title": "Mangalorean Catholics", "text": "Mangalorean Catholics\n\nMangalorean Catholics (Konkani: \"Kodialchein Katholik\") are an ethno-religious community of Catholics following the Latin Rite from the Mangalore Diocese (erstwhile \"South Canara\" district) on the southwestern coast of Karnataka, India. They are Konkani people and speak the Konkani language. \n\nContemporary Mangalorean Catholics are descended mainly from Goan Catholics who migrated to South Canara between 1560 and 1763, throughout the course of the Goa Inquisition, Portuguese–Adil Shahi wars, and the Portuguese–Maratha wars. They learned the languages of South Canara, Tulu, and Kannada, but retained Konkani as their mother tongue and preserved their lifestyle. Their 15-year captivity at Seringapatam imposed by Tipu Sultan, the \"de facto\" ruler of the Kingdom of Mysore, from 24 February 1784 to 4 May 1799 led to the near extinction of the community. After Tipu's defeat and subsequent killing by the British in 1799, the community resettled in South Canara, and later prospered under British rule.\n\nAlthough early assertions of a distinct Mangalorean Catholic identity date from the migration period, a developed Mangalorean Catholic cultural identity only emerged following the captivity. The culture of Mangalorean Catholics is a blend of Mangalorean and Goan cultures. After migration, they adopted some aspects of the local Mangalorean culture, but retained many of their Goan customs and traditions, and like their Goan ancestors, modern Mangalorean Catholic culture can be best described as an increasingly Anglicised Indo-Latin culture. The Mangalorean Catholic diaspora is mostly concentrated in the Arab states of the Persian Gulf and the English-speaking world.\n\nThe Roman Catholics from the Mangalore Diocese and the newly formed Udupi Diocese (erstwhile \"South Canara\" district) and their descendents are generally known as Mangalorean Catholics. The diocese is located on the southwestern coast of India. It comprises the civil districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi in Karnataka state, and Kasaragod in Kerala state. This region was collectively referred to as South Canara during the British \"Raj\" and then from the partition of India until the States Reorganisation Act of 1956.\n\nIn 1526, Portuguese ships arrived in Mangalore, and the number of local converts to Christianity slowly increased. However, a sizeable Christian population did not exist there until the second half of the 16th century, when there was a large-scale immigration of Christians from Goa to South Canara. They were reluctant to learn the local languages of South Canara and continued to speak Konkani, the language they brought from Goa, so that local Christians had to learn Konkani to converse with them. After this migration, the skilled Goan Catholic agriculturists were offered various land grants by the native Bednore rulers of South Canara. They observed their traditional Hindu customs in conjunction with the newfound Catholic practices, and preserved their lifestyle.\n\nMost migrants were people from the lower economic strata who had been left out of government and economic jobs; their lands had been confiscated due to heavy taxation under the Portuguese in Goa. As a consequence of the wealth and privileges which these Goan migrants enjoyed in Mangalore, they began feeling superior to their landless kindred in Goa. Their captivity at Seringapatam (1784–1799), where many died, were killed, or were forcibly converted to Islam, led to the formation of a separate and common Mangalorean Catholic cultural identity among members of the group, who hitherto had considered themselves an extension of the larger Goan Catholic community. They no longer self-identified as Goan Catholics. After their years of captivity, prosperity under the British and under Italian Jesuits, followed by migration for employment to Bombay, Calcutta, Poona, the Persian Gulf Arab states, and the English-speaking world, enabled the community to restore their identity. The overwhelming majority of Mangalorean Catholics are of Goud Saraswat Brahmin lineage. Historian Alan Machado Prabhu estimates that almost 95 per cent of Mangalorean Catholics have Goan origins.\n\nAll records of an early existence of Christians in South Canara were lost at the time of their deportation by Tipu Sultan in 1784. Hence, it is not known exactly when Christianity was introduced in South Canara, although it is possible that Syrian Christians settled in South Canara, just as they did in Kerala, a state south of Canara. The Italian traveller Marco Polo recorded that there were considerable trading activities between the Red Sea and the Canara coast in the 13th century. It can be surmised that foreign Christian merchants were visiting the coastal towns of South Canara during that period for commerce; it is possible some Christian priests might have accompanied them for evangelistic work.\n\nIn April 1321 the French Dominican friar Jordanus Catalani of Severac (in south-western France) landed at Thana with four other friars. He then travelled to Bhatkal in North Canara, a port town on the coastal route from Thana to Quilon. Being the first bishop of India and the Quilon Diocese, he was entrusted the spiritual nourishment of Christian community in Mangalore and other parts of India by Pope John XXII. According to historian Severine Silva, no concrete evidence has yet been found that there were any permanent settlements of Christians in South Canara before the 16th century. It was only after the advent of the Portuguese in the region that Christianity began to spread.\n\nIn 1498 the Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama landed on a group of islands in South Canara on his voyage from Portugal to India. He named the islands \"El Padron de Santa Maria\"; they later came to be known as St Mary's Islands. In 1500 Portuguese explorer Pedro Álvares Cabral arrived at Anjediva in North Canara with eight Franciscan missionaries. Under the leadership of Frei Henrique Soares de Coimbra, the missionaries converted 22 or 23 natives to Christianity in the Mangalore region. During the early part of the 16th century, Krishnadevaraya (1509–1529), the ruler of the Vijayanagara Empire of Deccan, granted commercial privileges to the Portuguese on the Canara coast. There was complete freedom of worship, belief, and propagation of religious tenets in the Vijaynagara Empire. In 1526, under the viceroyship of Lopo Vaz de Sampaio, the Portuguese took possession of Mangalore.\n\nThe Portuguese Franciscans slowly started propagating Christianity in Mangalore. The most prominent local convert was the Brahmin \"mahant\" Shankarayya, who in 1751 travelled with his wife from Kallianpur to Goa and was baptised, with the Portuguese viceroy assuming the role of his godfather. The honoured \"mahant\" took the name of Francisco de Távora, after the Viceroy Marques de Távora. Their properties were subsequently taken over by their Hindu relatives, but the viceroy instructed his factor of Mangalore to get their property restored. In 1534 Canara was placed under the ecclesiastic jurisdiction of the Bishop of Goa, where the Portuguese had a strong presence. Missionaries soon arrived and gained converts. The number of local converts in South Canara continually increased until 1546. During the mid-16th century, the Portuguese faced resistance from Abbakka Rani of Ullal, the Queen of the Bednore dynasty. This put a halt to conversions. The first battle between Abbakka Rani and the Portuguese was fought in 1546; she emerged victorious and drove the Portuguese out of South Canara.\n\nIn 1510, a Portuguese fleet under Afonso de Albuquerque, sent by King Manuel I of Portugal, wrested the region of Goa from \"Sultan\" Yusuf Adil Shah of Bijapur. In 1534, the Diocese of Goa was established. Soon missionaries were sent to Goa, which led to conversion of a sizeable population to Roman Catholicism. The bulk of Christian settlers came in three major migration waves towards South Canara. These migrations occurred in periods of great unrest: the Goa Inquisition occurred from 1560 onwards; the Portuguese–Adil Shahi wars were between 1570–79; and the Portuguese–Maratha wars occurred between 1667–83 and 1737–40. Other factors that led to mass migrations were disease epidemics, famines, natural calamities, overpopulation, poor living conditions, heavy tax burdens, and social discrimination by the Portuguese.\n\nIn 1542, the Navarrese Jesuit Francis Xavier, co-founder of the Society of Jesus; arrived in Goa. He discovered that the newly converted Christians were practising their old Hindu customs and traditions. He requested the Portuguese king João III to install an Inquisition in Goa in 1545. Many of the Goan ancestors of the present Mangalorean Catholics fled Goa when the Inquisition began in 1560. King Sebastião I decreed that every trace of Indian customs should be eradicated through the Inquisition. Many Christians of Goa were tenaciously attached to some of their ancient Indian customs, especially their traditional Hindu marriage costumes, and refused to abandon them. Those who refused to comply were forced to leave Goa and to settle outside the Portuguese dominion, which resulted in the first major wave of migrations towards South Canara.\n\nThe Christians who left Goa were for the most part skilled agriculturists who abandoned their irrigated fields in Goa to achieve freedom. The remainder were skilled carpenters, goldsmiths, artisans, and merchants. At the time of migration, Canara was ruled by the Keladi king Shivappa Nayaka (1540–60). He evinced great interest in the development of agriculture in his empire and welcomed these agriculturists to his kingdom, giving them fertile lands to cultivate. They were recruited into the armies of the Bednore dynasty. This was confirmed by Francis Buchanan, a Scottish physician, when he visited Canara in 1801. In his book \"A Journey from Madras through the Countries of Mysore, Canara and Malabar\" (1807), he stated that \"The princes of the house of Ikkeri had given great encouragement to the Christians, and had induced 80,000 of them to settle in Tuluva.\" Later, this was identified as a probable mistake and should have read \"8,000\". This figure included the second emigration of Christians from Goa. The taxation policies of the Keladi Nayakas during 1598–1763 enabled the Goan Catholic migrants to emerge as prominent landowning gentry in South Canara. These migrants usually brought their own capital from Goa, which they invested in their new lands, thereby indirectly contributing to the prosperity of the Keladi kingdom.\n\nUnder the provisional treaties between the Portuguese and the Bednore rulers, and the Padroado, the Christians were allowed to build churches and help foster the growth of Christianity in South Canara. The arrival of the British and the Dutch halted the activity of the Portuguese, and they were gradually unable to send the required number of missionaries to Mangalore. Shivappa Nayaka had previously expelled the Portuguese from their forts a little before 1660, which brought about considerable changes in the ecclesiastical situation. The appointment of the Vicar Apostolic of Mangalore was felt by the Holy See to be of critical importance. Nayaka pressured the church authorities to appoint a native priest as the Vicar Apostolic, which resulted in the appointment of Fr. Andrew Gomez to the post; however, he died before the nomination papers could reach Mangalore.\n\nAt the recommendation of the Vicar General of Verapoly, Mons. Joseph Sebastiani, Pope Clement X appointed Bishop Thomas de Castro, a Goan Theatine and Bishop of Fulsivelem, as the Vicar Apostolic of Propaganda Fide in the Vicariate of Canara on 30 August 1675, for the purpose of providing spiritual leadership to the Canara Christians. After his consecration, he first went to Calicut and then moved to Mangalore, where he served from 1677 to 1684. In 1677, Bishop de Castro entered into a conflict with the Archbishop of Goa, Dom Frei António Brandão, for disregarding the Padroado. Consequently, they did not cede the jurisdiction to him despite the Pope's letter of appointment. The Padroado–Propaganda conflict which ensued divided the Catholics of Canara into two sides—those who recognised the authority of the Padroado Archbishop in Goa versus those who supported de Castro.\n\nThe Portuguese refused to recognise Bishop de Castro's appointment and vigorously opposed his activities. Archbishop Brandão's sudden death on 6 July 1678 further complicated matters, and the Cathedral chapter administering the Archdiocese of Goa following the vacancy created by his death, forbade the Canara Catholics from receiving the sacraments from the bishop or from priests appointed by him. In his turn, Bishop de Castro excommunicated those Catholics who were obedient to the Padroado authorities in Goa and their priests. In 1681, the Holy See appointed another Goan priest Fr. Joseph Vaz, as the Vicar Forane of Canara; he was asked not to submit to Bishop de Castro unless he showed the letter of appointment. However, after being convinced of its legitimacy, Fr. Vaz submitted to Bishop de Castro and brought about a truce. He further managed to persuade the bishop to delegate his jurisdiction to him while retaining the post. In 1700, the Catholics of Canara were again brought under the jurisdiction of the Padroado Archbishop of Goa.\n\nThe Milagres Church, one of the oldest churches in South Canara, was built in 1680 by Bishop Thomas de Castro. In 1568, the Church of \"Nossa Senhora do Rosário de Mangalore\" (Our Lady of Rosary of Mangalore) was erected by the Portuguese at Bolar in Mangalore. The Churches of \"Nossa Senhora de Mercês de Velala\" (Our Lady of Mercy of Ullal) and \"São Francisco de Assis\" (St. Francis of Assisi) at Farangipet were erected by the Portuguese in South Canara at around the same time. These three churches were mentioned by the Italian traveller Pietro Della Valle, who visited Mangalore in 1623.\n\nIn 1570, the \"Sultan\" of Bijapur, Ali Adil Shah I, entered into an alliance with the \"Sultan\" of Ahmadnagar, Murtaza Nizam Shah, and the \"Zamorin\" of Calicut for a simultaneous attack on the Portuguese territories of Goa, Chaul, and Mangalore. He attacked Goa in 1571 and ended Portuguese influence in the region. The Bijapur \"Sultans\" were especially renowned for their loathing of Christianity. Fearing persecution, many Goan Catholics fled to South Canara during this second wave of migrations, and settled in Barcoor, Kallianpur, Cundapore, and Basroor. For the next century, there was continual migration of Goan Catholics southwards, so that by 1650, a considerable number of Catholics were settled around Mangalore, Moolki, Shirva, Pezar, Bantval, Cundapore, Kallianpur, and Kirem. The Christian Goud Saraswat Brahmins who came during this wave belonged mostly to the Shenvi subcaste.\n\nThe attacks of the Maratha Empire on Goa during the mid-16th century precipitated the third major wave of migrations. In 1664 Shivaji, the founder of the Maratha empire, attacked Kudal, a town north of Goa, and began his campaign for Goa. After Shivaji's death on 3 April 1680, his son Sambhaji ascended to the throne. The onslaught of Sambahji along the northern territories of Goa drove nearly all the Christians from their homelands, and most of them migrated to South Canara. Migration increased with the fall of the Portuguese \"Province of the North\" (which included Bassein, Chaul and Salsette) and a direct threat to the very existence of Goa in 1738–40.\n\nAccording to one estimate, emigrations from the Salcete district of Goa were around the rate of 2,000 annually. Jesuit priests estimated that 12,000 Christians emigrated from the Bardez district of Goa between 1710–12, most of them going southward. A Goa government report of 1747 presently in the Panjim archives records that around 5,000 Christians fled from the Bardez and Tiswadi districts of Goa during the Maratha invasion. During the Maratha raids on Goa, about 60,000 Christians migrated to South Canara. These new migrants were given lands at Shirva, Kirem, Mundkur, Pezar, and Hosabettu by the Chowta kings of Moodbidri and at Milagres, Bondel, and Cordel by the Banghel kings of Mangalore.\nDuring later years, migration slowed because of the Maratha–Mughal wars, and some 10,000 Christians returned to Goa. According to Alan Machado Prabhu, Mangalorean Catholics numbered about 58,000 by 1765.\n\nSubsequent to this steady rise in South Canara's Catholic population, the Portuguese took advantage of every opportunity to extend their control over the Mangalorean Catholics, who came to be identified with Portuguese interests.\nThe Portuguese sought to expand the power of the priests, as from the beginning of their empire, priests had accompanied Portuguese delegations on diplomatic missions and on occasion were the principal negotiatiors. Treaties they signed with the Keladi Nayakas progressively incorporated clauses which increased the authority of the priests over the local Catholic population, making them obedient to the priests in matters of Christian laws as well as granting priests the authority to punish violations. The Portuguese promised to refrain from slaughtering cows and to halt forcible conversions in their factories. The terms of these treaties were not always honoured by the Portuguese, with the result that whenever hostilities broke out between the Keladis and the Portuguese, the Catholic settlers were often harassed or arrested by the Nayakas.\n\nIn 1686, Seringapatam, the capital of the Kingdom of Mysore, had a community of more than 400 Catholics. The community was severely harassed in the following two decades, with the churches destroyed and the priest's house confiscated. The destruction was undertaken under the name of the Wodeyar king, Kanthirava Narasaraja I, by his finance minister. The priest's house was returned to the church in 1709. Relations between the Wodeyars and the Mangalorean Catholics improved until 1717, when there was an anti-Christian outburst. The resident priest was expelled and forbidden to preach. Several more anti-Christian outbursts followed. By 1736, there were better relations between the two groups.\n\nFrom 1761 onwards, Hyder Ali, a distinguished soldier in the Mysore army, took \"de facto\" control of the throne of the Kingdom of Mysore through the Wodeyar dynasty. Hyder occupied Mangalore in 1763. The Mangalorean Catholics numbered 80,000 in 1767. In February 1768 the British captured Mangalore from Hyder. Toward the end of 1768, Hyder and his son Tipu Sultan defeated the British and recaptured Mangalore fort. After the conquest, Hyder was informed that the Mangalorean Catholics had helped the British in their conquest of Mangalore. Hyder believed that this behaviour of the Christians amounted to treachery against the sovereign.\n\nThe Christians were alleged to have helped General Mathews with a sum of Rs. 3,30,000/-. Hyder summoned a Portuguese officer and several Christian priests from Mangalore to suggest the punishment for the Mangalorean Catholics for treachery. The Portuguese officer suggested the death penalty for those Catholics who helped the British, because it was a fitting punishment for people who betrayed the sovereign. But Hyder exhibited a diplomatic stance and imprisoned the Christians, rather than killing them.\n\nLater, he opened negotiations with the Portuguese. As a result of the agreement, the suspicion against the clergy and the Christians was removed. During Hyder's regime, the Mangalorean Catholic community continued to flourish. After Hyder's death in the Second Anglo-Mysore War on 7 December 1782, the British captured the fort again. Hyder was succeeded by his son Tipu Sultan. Tipu laid several assaults on the Mangalore fort until January 1784, all of which resulted in failure. The fort was finally delivered to Tipu when the British capitulated on 30 January 1784.\n\nTipu received highly exaggerated reports about the role of the Mangalorean Catholics and their help to the British in the Second Anglo-Mysore War. To minimise the British threat to his kingdom and in the \"Sultan-ul-Tawarikh\", due to \"the rage of Islam that began to boil in his breast\", Tipu banished the Mangalorean Catholic community from their lands, and imprisoned them at Seringapatam, the capital of his empire. The captivity of Mangalorean Catholics at Seringapatam, which began on 24 February 1784 and ended on 4 May 1799, remains the most disconsolate memory in their history.\n\nSoon after the Treaty of Mangalore in 1784, Tipu gained control of Canara. He issued orders to seize the Christians in Canara, confiscate their estates, and deport them to Seringapatam, through the Jamalabad fort route. All this was accomplished in a secret and well-planned move on Ash Wednesday (24 February 1784). Accounts of the number of captives differ, ranging from 30,000 to 80,000. The generally accepted figure is 60,000, as per Tipu's own records. They were forced to climb nearly through the dense jungles and gorges of the Western Ghat mountain ranges along two routes; one group travelled along the Bantwal-Belthangadi-Kulshekar-Virajpet-Coorg-Mysore route, and the other along the Gersoppa falls (Shimoga) route. It was from Mangalore to Seringapatam, and the journey took six weeks.\n\nAccording to the \"Barcoor Manuscript\", written in Kannada by a Mangalorean Catholic from Barcoor after his return from Seringapatam, 20,000 of them (one-third) died on the march to Seringapatam due to hunger, disease, and ill treatment by the soldiers. At the camp at Jamalabad fort, Mangalorean Catholic leaders were thrown down from the fort. All Christian churches in South Canara, except the Hospet Church at Hospet and the Monte Mariano Church at Farangipet, were razed to the ground and all land owned by the captured Christians was taken over by Tipu and distributed among his favourites. After they were freed, all their belongings had disappeared and their deserted lands were being cultivated by the Bunts.\n\nAfter arriving at Seringapatam, the Christian captives were made to forcibly embrace Islam, were tortured, or sentenced to death. The young men who refused to embrace Islam were disfigured by cutting their noses, upper lips, and ears. They were seated on asses, paraded through the city, and thrown into the dungeons of Seringapatam. Historian Praxy Fernandes, author of \"Storm over Seringapatam: The Incredible Story of Hyder Ali & Tippu Sultan\", states that contrary to popular belief, 40,000 Christians were not kept manacled in the dungeons of Seringapatam.\n\nLudwig von Pastor, a German historian, author of \"The History of the Popes, from the Close of the Middle Ages. Volume 39\" emphasises saying \"countless\" Mangalorean Catholics were hanged, including women with their children clinging around their necks. Others were trampled or dragged by elephants. The able-bodied young men were drafted into the army after being circumcised and converted to Islam. The young women and girls were distributed as wives to Muslim officers and favourites living in Seringapatam. According to Mr. Silva of Gangollim, a survivor of the captivity, if a person who had escaped from Seringapatam was found, Tipu had ordered the cutting off of the ears, nose, the feet, and one hand as punishment. The persecutions continued until 1792. This was followed by a brief relaxation period from 1792–1797, during which a few Catholic families managed to escape to Coorg, Cannanore, and Tellicherry. The persecutions resumed in 1797.\n\nIn the Battle of Seringapatam on 4 May 1799, the British army under officers George Harris, David Baird, and\nArthur Wellesley stormed the fortress, breached the town of Seringapatam, and killed Tipu. After his death in the Fourth Anglo-Mysore War, the Mangalorean Catholics were freed from his captivity. Of the 60,000–80,000 Mangalorean Catholics taken captive, only 15,000–20,000 made it out as Christians.\n\nHistorian Alan Machado Prabhu mentions that only 11,000 survived the captivity as Christians. British general Arthur Wellesley helped 10,000 of them return to South Canara and resettle on their lands. Of the remaining Christians freed, about a thousand went to Malabar, and some hundreds settled in Coorg. According to Francis Buchanan, 15,000 of them returned to Mangalore and its vicinity, while 10,000 of them migrated to Malabar. The \"Gazetteer of the Bombay Presidency\" (1883) mentions that 15,000 persons returned, of which 12,000 were from South Canara and 3,000 from North Canara. According to genealogist Michael Lobo, the present Mangalorean Catholic community is descended almost entirely from this small group of survivors.\n\nLater, the British took over South Canara. In 1800, they took a census of the region. Of the people living in South Canara, 10,877 were Christians. Thomas Munro was appointed the first collector of Canara in June 1799. He passed three orders in respect of the estates of the Christians, which were taken over by non-Christians during the captivity. Through the assistance of the church and with the support of Munro, the Christians were able to recover their lands and estates. Fr. José Miguel Luis de Mendes, a Goan Catholic priest, was appointed Vicar of Our Lady of Rosary of Mangalore on 7 December 1799. He took interest in the re-establishment of the community from 1799 to 1808. Later, British general John Goldsborough Ravenshaw was appointed collector of South Canara. He took an active part in the restoration of the Catholic community's former possessions and the recovery of its estates. He constructed a church for them, which was completed in 1806.\nIn 1800, there were 2,545 Catholic households with a population of 10,877. Their population almost doubled by 1818. According to various parish books, Mangalorean Catholics numbered 19,068 in South Canara (12,877 in Mangalore and Bantval, 3,918 in Moolki, 2,273 in Cundapore and Barcoor). Most of the churches which were earlier destroyed by Tipu were rebuilt by 1815. The community prospered under the British, and the jurisdiction of the Archbishop of Goa recommenced.\n\nThe opening of the Protestant German Basel Mission of 1834 in Mangalore brought many handicraft industries, such as cotton weaving and tile-manufacturing, to the region and led to a large-scale rise in employment. In 1836–37, the political situation in Portugal was in turmoil. Antonio Feliciano de Santa Rita Carvalho, a Portuguese priest, was appointed Archbishop-elect of Goa in September 1836 without authorisation from the then Pope, Gregory XVI. Many Mangalorean Catholics did not accept the leadership of Carvalho but instead submitted to the Vicar Apostolic of Verapoly in Travancore, while some of them continued to be under the jurisdiction of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Goa and Daman. The parishes in South Canara were divided into two groups—one under Goa and the other under Verapoly.\n\nUnder the leadership of Joachim Pius Noronha, a Mangalorean Catholic priest, and John Joseph Saldanha, a Mangalorean Catholic judge, the Mangalorean Catholics sent a petition to the Holy See in 1840 to establish Mangalore as a separate Vicariate. Conceding to their request, Pope Gregory XVI established Mangalore as a separate Vicariate on 17 February 1845 under the Verapoly Carmelites. The Mangalore Mission was transferred to the French Carmelites by a bull dated 3 January 1870. During the regime of Carmelites, the Mangalorean Catholics constantly sent memorandums to the Holy See to send Jesuits to Mangalore to start institutions for higher education, since students frequently had to go to Bombay and Madras for educational purposes. Pope Leo XIII, by the Brief of 27 September 1878, handed over the Mangalore mission to the Italian Jesuits of Naples, who reached Mangalore on 31 December 1878.\n\nThe Italian Jesuits played an important role in education, health, and social welfare of the community. They built St. Aloysius College in 1880, St Aloysius Chapel in 1884, St. Joseph's Seminary\nand many other institutions and churches. On 25 January 1887, Pope Leo XIII established the Diocese of Mangalore, which is considered to be an important landmark in the community's history. By the later half of the 19th century, many Mangalorean Catholics were involved in the Mangalore tile industry, coffee plantations, and trade in plantation products. They prospered under the British and competed with the local Brahmins for offices in the service of the British. The overwhelming majority of Mangalorean Catholics continued to remain agriculturists.\n\nDuring the later 19th century, they started migrating to other urban areas, especially Bombay, Bangalore, Calcutta, Karachi, Madras, Mysore and Poona. The Mangalorean Catholics came to Bombay out of economic necessity. The first permanent settlement of Mangalorean Catholics in Bombay was recorded in the 1890s. The first Mangalorean Catholic settlement in Madras was recorded in the 1940s. Joachim Alva, a Mangalorean Catholic politician, actively participated in uniting the Mangalorean Catholic community against the British during the Indian Independence Movement.\n\nIn 1901, Mangalorean Catholics accounted for 76,000 of the total 84,103 Christians in South Canara., while in 1962, they numbered . During the mid-20th century, Victor Fernandes, Bishop of Mangalore from 1931 to 1955, erected a large cross at Nanthoor, near Padav hills, on the former outskirts of Mangalore, in honour of the memory of Mangalorean Catholic martyrs who died on the march and during their 15-year captivity at Seringapatam. During the 1970s, coastal communication increased between Bombay and Mangalore with the introduction of ships by the London-based trade firm Shepherd. These ships facilitated the entry of Mangalorean Catholics to Bombay. In 1993, the Mangalore Diocese estimated the population of Mangalorean Catholics to be out of a total South Canara population of . This amounts to 9.23 per cent of the population. A notable post-independence era event pertaining to the Mangalorean Catholics that occurred in southern Karnataka, and made national headlines, were the attacks on Christian religious institutions in September 2008.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Mangalore estimates the population of Mangalorean Catholics in the areas that comprise historical South Canara to be out of a total population of , or approximately 9.5 per cent of the population. Other regions of India having a significant proportion of Mangalorean Catholics, characterised by the presence of Mangalorean Catholic organisations or celebration of the unique Mangalorean Catholic \"Monti Fest\" festival, are Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, and Ranchi. A few Mangalorean Catholics are found in Kodagu and Kerala, where there are tiny pockets concentrated in Thalassery, Kasargod, Kannur and Kochi. They are mainly descended from those Catholics who fled the persecution and roundup by Tipu Sultan. The Mangalorean Catholic diaspora is scattered across the globe. Many Mangalorean Catholics are found in Persian Gulf Arab states in the Middle East. The Mangalorean Catholic Association of Sydney (MCAS) has estimated that around 300 Mangalorean Catholic families live in Sydney, Australia, with a lot of second generation families. Many of these are multi-racial, being married into Anglo-Saxon, Spanish, Italian, Greek, and other ethnicities. Mangalorean genealogist Michael Lobo has estimated that approximately half of the Mangalorean Catholics still reside in Mangalore and the other towns in the South Canara district. As for the remaining half, about 15 per cent reside in other parts of Karnataka (mostly Bangalore), 15 per cent reside in Mumbai and its neighbouring areas, 10 per cent reside in the Persian Gulf countries, 5 per cent reside in other parts of India, and the remaining 5 per cent reside in other parts of the world.\n\nThe German missionary Plebot set up the first tile factory at Mangalore in 1860. It was called the Basel Mission tile factory. Mangalorean Catholics learnt the technique of preparing Mangalore tiles. The Albuquerque tile factory, the first Indian Mangalore tile factory, was started in South Canara by Pascal Albuquerque at Panemangalore in 1868. Since then, Mangalorean Catholics have been actively involved in manufacturing the tiles. The Alvares tile factory was established in Mangalore by Simon Alvares, a Mangalorean Catholic from Bombay, in 1878. In 1991–1992, out of twelve Mangalore tile manufacturing factories in Mangalore, six were owned by Christians. These tiles, prepared from hard clay, were in great demand throughout India, Myanmar, and Sri Lanka, and were even shipped to East Africa, the Middle East, Europe, and Australia. These were the only tiles to be recommended for Government buildings in India, and still define Mangalore's skyline and characterise its urban setting. Urban and rural housing follows the traditional variety of laterite brick structures with Mangalore tile roofing on steeply sloped roofs. Inside the house, a spacious hall is present while a large verandah is present in front of the house. The traditional houses tend to have spacious porticos, red cement or terracotta floors, and have fruit trees outside the house. The old Catholic houses of South Canara bear traces of Portuguese influence. The tall windows, pointed roofs, and verandahs are some of the Portuguese influenced architectural features of the century-old houses.\n\nHistorically, the Mangalorean Catholic diet was completely vegetarian. This changed during the 20th century, when with the advent of Westernisation, meat came to be consumed increasingly in the community, especially amongst the elite. Coconut and curry leaves are common ingredients to most curries. \"Sanna-Dukra Maas\" (\"Sanna\" is \"idli\" fluffed with toddy or yeast; \"Dukra Maas\" is pork) is one of the most popular dishes of the Mangalorean Catholic community. \"Rosachi Kadi\" (\"Ros\" Curry), a fish curry made with coconut milk (\"ros\"), is a traditional curry served during the \"Ros\" ceremony. \"Patrode\", a dish of colocasia leaves stuffed with rice, \"dal\", jaggery, coconut, and spices is popular. \"Kuswar\" are sweet delicacies prepared during Christmas and include around 22 varieties of sweets. Fish and rice form the staple diet of most Mangalorean Catholics. Par-boiled rice, known as red rice, is the traditional rice eaten and is preferred over raw rice.\n\nBilingual names, having variants in both Konkani and English, like \"Zuãuñ\" (from Portuguese \"João\", meaning John) and \"Mornel\" (Magdalene) are common among Mangalorean Catholics. Most Mangalorean Catholic names for males follow the second declension. Among women, the names follow the first declension, while among young girls, the names follow the second declension. Portuguese surnames like D'Souza, Coelho, and Pinto are common among Mangalorean Catholics, and generally follow the second declension. Other European surnames are found. Mangalorean Catholics use their native language Konkani forms of their surnames in Konkani-language contexts, along with their Portuguese forms in English-language contexts, such as \"Soz\", \"Kuel\", and \"Pint\", instead of Sousa, Coelho, and Pinto. Some families use their original Konkani Brahmin such as Prabhu, Kamath, Naik, Shenoy and Shet. These original surnames are actually the names of five classes of persons: lord, cultivator, merchant, warrior, and writer. Four of these are Goud Saraswat Brahmin surnames, with the exception of Shet, which is used by a few who trace their origins to the Daivadnya Brahmins of Goa. These ancestral pre-conversion surnames of the Mangalorean Catholics are called \"paik\" in Konkani. To capture their tradition, many have reverted to their \"paik\" surnames, or use hyphenated names consisting of their post-conversion surnames in conjunction with their ancestral ones. Mudartha is a unique Mangalorean Catholic surname to be found among some Catholics that hail from Udupi.\n\nMangalorean Catholics speak the Konkani language, which they have retained as their mother tongue despite the migration; the language is central to the community's identity. They speak a dialect known as Mangalorean Catholic Konkani, which the \"Ethnologue\" broadly identifies as the \"Mangalore\" dialect.\n\nThe Mangalorean Catholic dialect has Sanskrit influences, and preserves many features of the Maharashtri, Shauraseni, and Magadhi dialects of Prakrit.\nIt also liberally uses loanwords from the Tulu and Kannada languages. It is written in the Kannada script. The dialect does not distinguish between the nouns of Kannada and Konkani and has developed into a language that is very practical for business. Some Kannada rootwords which have disappeared from the Goan dialects due to the influence of Portuguese have re-entered the Mangalorean lexicon. 350–400 Portuguese lexical items are found in the Mangalorean Catholic dialect, of which more than half are related to religious terminology. The influence of Portuguese syntax is only found in some sets of phrases and prayers which have come down from the pre-migration era.\n\nThe Mangalorean Catholic dialect is largely derived from the \"Bardeskaar\" (North Goan) dialect and bears a good degree of intelligibility with the modern \"Bardeskaar\" dialect (spoken by North Goan Christians, North Goan Hindus, and South Goan Hindus) and to a slightly lesser extent with the standard Konkani dialect. It consequently differs from the dialect spoken by the Goud Saraswat Brahmins in South Canara, which is copiously derived and bears a good degree of intelligibility with the modern \"Sashtikaar\" (South Goan) dialect spoken by South Goan Christians and North Canara Konkani Hindus. It is much closer to the dialects of the Goan Hindus than to that of the Goan Catholics.\n\nThe Italian Jesuits who arrived in Mangalore in 1878, devoted themselves to the study and development of Konkani, and were thus responsible for the revival of the Konkani language in Mangalore. The origin of their literature dates to 1883, when Angelus Francis Xavier Maffei, an Italian Jesuit, published the first \"An English–Konkani Dictionary\" in Mangalore. He published a book on Konkani grammar in 1882, with a revised version in 1893. In 1912 the first Konkani periodical, \"Konknni Dirvem\" (Konkani Treasure), was published in Mangalore by Louis Mascarenhas. Popular Konkani periodicals published in Mangalore include \"Raknno\" (Guardian) (1938) by Mons. Sylvester Menezes, \"Konkan Daiz\" (Heritage of Konkani) (1958), and \"Kannik\" (Donation) (1965) by Raymond Miranda. The twentieth-century literature focused on themes like the suffering of the Mangalorean Catholics during their 15-year captivity at Seringapatam and the oppression of Goan Catholics during the Goa Inquisition. The first Konkani novel in Karnataka \"Aangel\" (1915), was written in the Kannada script by Joachim Santan Alvares. In Bombay—which had a small Mangalorean Catholic community—periodicals like \"Sukh-Dukh\" (Ups and Downs) (1948) by G.M.B. Rodrigues, \"Konknni Yuvak\" (Konkani Youth) (1949) by George Fernandes, \"Poinnari\" (Traveller) (1950) by V.J.P. Saldanha, and \"Divo\" (Lamp) (1995) by J.B. Moraes were published.\n\nModern literature is diverse and includes themes such as Indian politics in books like \"What Ails the Socialists\" by George Fernandes, historical awakening, in books such as \"Sarasvati's Children: A History of the Mangalorean Christians\" by Alan Machado Prabhu, and sexual desires, in \"The Revised Kama Sutra: A Novel of Colonialism and Desire\" by Richard Crasta. Genealogist Michael Lobo published the first genealogical Encyclopedia of the Mangalorean Catholic community in 1999. This genealogical encyclopaedia, which exceeds 6,000 pages, covers over a thousand families, each of which is researched as far as its ancestry can be traced. Three offshoots have thus far been launched, which include \"Mangaloreans Worldwide – An International Directory\" (1999), \"Distinguished Mangalorean Catholics\" (2000), and \"The Mangalorean Catholic Community – A Professional History / Directory\" (2002). William Robert da Silva translated the first complete Bible from English into Konkani. The work entitled \"Baibol\" (Bible) was written in the Kannada script, and published by the Mangalore-based Konkani Bible committee in 1997. In 2000, the Mangalore Diocese also released a Konkani Bible in Kannada script entitled \"Pavitr Pustak\" (Holy Book), which was made available online on 26 July 2007.\n\nMangalorean Catholics have retained many Indian customs and traditions; these are especially visible during the celebration of a marriage. Their culture is more traditional and Indian. Though the Portuguese traded quite frequently in Mangalore, and most of the priests arriving in the region were Portuguese,\nthere did not develop a community identified with Portugal and Portuguese culture. The Mangalorean Catholics have no uniform rituals since they belong to both the patrilineal Brahmin stock and to the matrilineal non-Brahmin stock. Their marriage rites share many similarities with the Shenvi sub-caste of the Goud Saraswat Brahmins. It was mainly these pre-Christian marriage rites that the Portuguese found objectionable and prohibited during the Goan Inquisition.\n\nThe \"Roce\" (anointing) ceremony, conducted one or two days before a wedding, celebrates the last day of virginity of the bride and bridegroom and involves the parents' blessing of the bride and groom, who are anointed with \"roce\", a mixture of coconut milk and coconut oil, while a cross is inscribed on the bride's forehead. The marriage traditions include \"Soirik\" (betrothal), exchange of \"Paan Pod\" (betel leaves) during the marriage ceremony, which known as \"Badalchen\" (changing hands; formal acceptance of the promise made by the bride's father to the bridegroom's father that he will give his daughter in marriage). The bride is adorned with the \"Sado\" (wedding \"sari\") and \"Pirduk\" (wedding necklace). Other rites include the \"Onpnni\" (giving away the bride formally by the father or the guardian of the bride), \"Porthoponn\" (re-invitation to the bride's house), and singing of \"Honvious\" (hymns). Some non-marriage traditions include \"Novemjeevon\" (partaking of the food prepared from new corn) and \"Novem\" (blessing of new harvests).\n\nIn addition to common Christian festivals like Christmas, Good Friday, and Easter, the community celebrates many other festivals of religious and historical significance. \"Monti Fest\" is one of the major festivals, celebrated on 8 September. It combines the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary and blessing of \"Novem\" (new crops). The festival derives its name from the Monte Mariano Church at Farangipet in South Canara, and was initiated by Fr. Joachim Miranda, a Goan Catholic priest at Farangipet, in 1763. Although Tipu Sultan destroyed the churches of Canara, he spared Monte Mariano Church in deference to the friendship of his father Hyder Ali with Fr. Miranda. \"Attur Jatre\" or \"Attur Fest\" (Attur festival) is the feast of St. Lawrence, celebrated in the St. Lawrence Shrine on the outskirts of Karkala in South Canara. This shrine, in existence since 1759, is said to have a history of miracles. \"Evkaristik Purshanv\" (Eucharistic Procession) is an annual religious procession led by the Bishop of Mangalore from Milagres Church to Rosario Cathedral. The procession, held on the first Sunday of the New Year of the Gregorian calendar, seeks blessings for the new year.\n\nMangalorean Catholic men traditionally wore long, loose-frilled, white or black coats known as \"Kutanv\" (similar to the Maratha loose coats with buttons), over a \"Zibbo\" (loose shirt), while the \"Pudvem\" (\"dhoti\"), a piece of unstitched cloth, usually around long, was wrapped around the waist and the legs and knotted at the waist. The turban called \"Mundaas\" or \"Urmal\", were usually flattened like the \"Coorgi\" turbans. It was a long white piece of cloth with a \"Todop\" (golden hem) tied around the head like a turban in a particular manner by which they could be easily identified as Catholics. In modern times however, this mode has changed. Only a few older people can be seen wearing this traditional dress on church-going occasions.\n\nBefore marriage, women used to wear a \"Kirgi\" (\"sari\") and \"Baju\" (blouse). The \"Kirgi\" is a piece of cloth not longer than four feet, and about three feet wide. It was wrapped around the body from the waist down. A jacket with long sleeves called a \"Baju\", was used to cover the upper part of the body. This dress was a sign of the bride's virginity and was worn during the \"Ros\" ceremony. The \"Kirgi\" was wrapped around the waist, but the end of the \"sari\" is not thrown over the shoulder. To wear the \"sari\" with its end thrown over the shoulder, known as \"Worl\", is the exclusive right of a married woman. Married women used to wear sarees the general way. The \"Salwar kameez\" is another form of popular dress for females. The Mangalorean Catholic bride's wedding \"sari\" is known as a \"Sado\". It is usually a red-coloured \"Banarasi sari\" which is made of finely woven silk and is decorated with elaborate engravings. In olden days, the bride wore on her head a red cloth, three feet square. Gold ornaments were absent in those days: the bride went to the church dressed as a virgin girl. In modern times, the bride wears (in place of the \"Kirgi\") a red sari, but the end of the \"sari\" is not thrown over the shoulder; it is wrapped around the waist. The bride wears a few gold ornaments, some rings on the fingers, earrings, and at least two of the \"Dantoni\" (golden combs). Other ornaments worn by the bride in the olden days included \"Kanti\", \"Chakrasar\", \"Kap\", \"Karap\", \"Mugud\", \"Kanto\", and \"Dantoni\".\n\n\"Dantoni\" consist of two ordinary combs with the upper part of each one plated with gold; they are worn in the hair on both sides of the head over the ears. On the way to church the bride wears some white and red flowers stuck in the hair. In the centre of the forehead, a \"Bang\" (gold chain) was placed with a pendant. The \"Pirduk\" (\"Mangalsutra\") is a necklace made of black beads strung on gold wire as either as a single chain or double chain, with a connecting pendant. This necklace is worn as long as the husband is alive; a widow is expected to take it off. It is highly prized by women\nas the symbol of their married state. A widow is expected to wear a black \"sari\" for the remainder of her life, and is not allowed to wear ornaments. The bridegroom's dress in early times consisted of a short loincloth of hand-woven cloth (\"Dhoti\"), a shawl to cover his shoulders, and a red handkerchief on the head (\"Leis\"). Later, his dress consisted of a white loincloth with a red and gold hem (\"todop\"), a shirt with gold buttons and a coat (\"Kutanv\"), a shawl on the shoulders, and a towel (\"Urmal\") on the head. The bridegroom wore a \"Chakrasar\" (neck chain) around his neck. He wore a pair of sandals or at least a pair of socks. At present, most Mangalorean Catholic couples opt for a White wedding, where the bridegroom wears a suit, while the bride wears a white wedding gown. The traditional style of wedding is becoming exceedingly rare.\n\nMangalorean Catholics retained the same caste system as their ancestors in Goa. They were mainly divided into four castes: \"Bamonns\", \"Charodis\", \"Sudirs\", and \"Gaudis\".\n\nThe biggest group were the \"Bamonns\", who were converts from the priestly Brahmin class. All Brahmin sub-castes such as the Goud Saraswat Brahmins, Padyes, and Daivadnyas, especially the goldsmiths and a few merchants, were lumped into the Christian caste of \"Bamonn\". The descendants of Goud Saraswat converts comprised the majority of this caste. The \"Bamonns\" were further divided into other castes according to rank. In Mangalore, they were sub-divided into \"Sirudhegars\" (the highest class), \"Alhdhengars\", \"Cutdhnangars\", \"Dhivodegars\", \"Nathnolegars\", \"Sashragars\", \"Puruvargars\", and \"Maidhegars\". These names are taken from the villages to which they once belonged. This group constituted the landed gentry. In accordance with traditional Hindu law that allowed a Brahmin to practice any occupation except cultivation, the \"Bamonns\" refrained from cultivating their lands, and leased them to tenants.\n\nThe \"Charodis\", the second-largest group, were converts from the Kshatriya (warrior class) and Vaishya (merchant class) castes. They were generally engaged in trade and commercial vocations. The artisan converts formed the third-biggest group and were known as \"Sudirs\" (the Konkani word for Shudras, which were the labour class). They were workers and agricultural labourers engaged in service professions. The converts from the fisher caste residing around Ullal, Kuloor, and other places around the seacoast were called \"Gaudis\", and formed the fourth group. They cultivated the lands of the \"Bamonns\" and the high-caste Hindus. Other minor castes included the \"Padvals\", whom historian Severine Silva assumes to be local Jain converts.\nThe Mangalorean Catholics constituted a small community widely scattered across the South Canara district. Rather than being a closely knit and united group, the Goan Catholic immigrants and their progeny did not associate with the native Catholics on account of caste, origin, and language, and even among themselves were strongly divided by caste. The Hindus, including the indigenous Brahmins (mostly belonging to the Shivalli, Havyaka, and Kota sub-groups) and Bunts did not associate with the Catholics and would not admit them into their houses on account of their religion. However, a close contact was kept by the Catholics with the Hindus of the same caste who were refugees from Goa. Catholics would invite their Hindu cousins to festivities such as birth celebrations, weddings, and funeral feasts. The Hindus accepted such invitations. Unlike his Hindu counterpart, a high-caste Mangalorean Catholic did not consider himself polluted upon physical contact with a member of the lower caste, but members of different castes did not fraternise or invite each other home for dinner.\n\nMarriage between members of the various castes was not permitted, and such matches were strictly discouraged by the elders. For instance, a \"Bamonn\" boy would only marry a \"Bamonn\" girl and a \"Charodi\" boy would only marry a \"Charodi\" girl. The \"Bamonns\" and \"Charodis\" would invite neighbours and friends belonging to the \"Sudir\" and \"Gaudi\" castes to special occasions such as weddings and baptisms, although the latter would have to observe certain restrictions with regards to sitting and eating. The lower castes felt honoured if they were invited and usually accepted such invitations. The upper castes usually did not attend the ceremonies of the lower castes, even if expressly invited.\n\nIt was difficult for the few priests who had accompanied the Christian emigrants to South Canara to look after them properly. Thus, the \"Gurkar\" system came into existence. \"Gurkars\" were Mangalorean Catholic men of good moral character who were selected as headmen in Christian settlements. They were entrusted with the social and religious supervision of the community. After migration, the only possible occupation of a Mangalorean Catholic was agriculture, since they were skilled farmers. Every farmer practised carpentry, but it was quite primitive and unskilled, and other crafts and industries were non-existent. The mass was celebrated in Latin; but the sermon, the catechism, and the explication of the mysteries were delivered to the congregation in Konkani.\n\nThe parishes were grouped into deaneries called \"Varados\". Every parish was divided into wards, while Parish Councils were present in most parishes. About 15 percent of the households in the parishes were literate. A widow had to remain indoors, practically for the rest of her life. Since high-caste Hindu widows cannot remarry after the death of their husbands, the high-caste Christians too considered the remarriage of a widow as something unnatural. Canon law did allow remarriage for widows and therefore there was no direct prohibition for widows to remarry in the society of the Christians of South Canara. Few women had the courage to go against the strict conventions of their community. A widow who remarried was looked down upon, pitied, and shunned as unlucky. But she was not ill-treated or made an outcast, and no stigma was attached to her husband. Succession to property was practised as per the Hindu laws.\n\nOn 26 and 27 January 2008, a Konkani cultural event, \"Konkani Nirantari\", held in Mangalore by the Mangalorean Catholic organisation \"Mandd Sobhann\"; entered the Guinness Book of World Records for non-stop singing of Konkani hymns. \"Mandd Sobhann\" members sang for 40 hours, surpassing the old record of 36 hours held by a Brazilian musical troupe, \"Communidade Evangelica Luterana São Paulo\" (Lutheran Evangelical Community of São Paulo) of Universidade Luterana do Brasil (Lutheran University of Brazil). The Silver Band, started in 1906 by Lawrence D'Souza in Mangalore, is one of the oldest and most popular brass bands in Mangalore. The well-known Konkani hymn \"Riglo Jezu Molliant\" (Jesus entered the Garden of Gethsemene) was written by Fr. Joachim Miranda, an 18th-century Goan Catholic priest, when he was held captive by Tipu Sultan on his Canara mission.\nMons. Minguel Placid Colaco wrote the devotional hymn \"Jezucho Mog\" (Jesus' Love) in 1905, and translated the Latin hymn \"Stabat Mater\" into Konkani under the title \"Khursa Mullim\" (Bottom of the Holy Cross). Joseph Saldanha's \"Shembor Cantigo\" (100 Hymns) and Raimundo Mascarenhas' \"Deva Daia Kakultichea\" (O Compassionate Master) were popular. Other popular Konkani hymns composed by Mangalorean Catholics are \"Aika Cristanv Jana\" (Listen, O' Christian People), \"Utha Utha Praniya\" (Wake up, Creatures), and \"Sorgim Thaun\" (From Heaven).\n\nKonkani pop music became popular after Indian Independence in 1947. Henry D'Souza and Helen D'Cruz are known for the Konkani love duet \"Kathrina\" in 1971 and the love Ballad \"Garacho Divo\" (Lamp of the House) in the 1970s, while Wilfy Rebimbus' sonnet \"Mog Tuzo Kithlo Axelom\" (How I Have Loved Thee) from 1977 is popular. Konkani plays, especially religious ones, were written and staged in Mangalore in the 20th century by prominent playwrights such as Pedru John D'Souza, Pascal Sequeira and Bonaventure Tauro. The \"Ghumat\" was a popular musical instrument played especially during weddings. The instrument has the form of an earthen pot but is open at both sides. One end is covered with the skin of some wild animal, and the other is left open. The traditional theatre form is called \"Gumat\", and is performed on the eve of the marriage or in connection with the marriage celebrations in the decorated \"pandal\" (stage). The play is conducted by males belonging to both the brides' and bridegrooms' parties, and usually takes place for two or three nights. The plays performed are usually those of Biblical stories, and their morals are presented with the purpose of educating the bride and bridegroom. This tradition has almost completely died out among the present generation.\n\nThe tradition of \"Voviyo\" (wedding songs), sung by women during a \"Ros\", is important to this community. The procedure is that an elderly lady, usually the \"yejman\" (wife of the master of ceremonies, who is known as \"yejmani\") who knows the \"voviyos\", leads the song while the rest of the women sing along. Only women whose husbands are still living may sing. In ancient times, the wedding songs expressed very lofty sentiments and gave vent to the feelings of the people about the marriage partners and their families, invoking the blessing of God on them.\n\nMany organisations cater to the community in South Kanara. The most notable are \"Mandd Sobhann\", which broke the Guinness record for non-stop singing, and the Catholic Association of South Kanara (CASK). The first session of the Canara Konkani Catholic World Convention took place on 26 December 2004 in Mangalore. The convention aimed to establish institutions to conduct research on the history of Mangalorean Catholics.\n\nIn India, the Kanara Catholic Association, Mumbai, (KCA Mumbai, established in 1901), the Kanara Catholic Association, (KCA Bangalore, established in 1955) and Mangalore Catholic Association, Pune) (MCA, established on 10 February 1996) in are well known. Also the Kanara Entrepreneurs, Bangalore (established in 2007) a non profit group to promote skill development and success among Mangalorean Catholic Entrepreneurs, students and catholic institutions are part of the efforts to help the community.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Mangalorean United Konkani Association (MUKA) in Nottingham is popular.\n\nIn Australia, The Mangalorean Catholic Association of Victoria (MCAV) established in Melbourne was the first organisation for the community in Australia. In 2006 the Mangalorean Catholic Association of Sydney (MCAS) was established in Australia.\n\nIn North America, the Mangalorean Association of Canada and the Mangalorean Konkan Christian Association (MKCA) in Chicago are well known.\n\nIn the Middle East, the Mangalore Cultural Association (MCA) in Doha, Qatar; was established on March 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1965890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1965890", "title": "Mary Lee (suffragette)", "text": "Mary Lee (suffragette)\n\nMary Lee (née Walsh) (14 February 1821 – 18 September 1909) was an Irish-Australian suffragist and social reformer in South Australia.\n\nMary Lee was born in Ireland at Kilknock Estate, county Monaghan. She was married in 1844 to George Lee. The couple had seven children however little more is known about her life in Ireland. Her son Ben moved to Adelaide, South Australia. When he fell ill in 1879, Lee and her daughter, Evelyn, immigrated to Adelaide as well. They travelled on the maiden voyage of the steamship \"Orient\". Her son died on 2 November 1880.\n\nIn 1883 Mary Lee became active in the ladies' committee of the Social Purity Society. The Society advocated changes to the law relating to the social and legal status of young women, advocating an end to child labour to protect girls from abuse and preventing them from becoming prostitutes or child brides. The group's success was a passage in the 1885 \"Criminal Law Consolidation Amendment Act\" that raised the age of consent from 13 to 16. Her first achievement was a new law to protect young women, which made it illegal for a man to have sex with a girl under 16.\n\nThe Social Purity Society also was concerned with the working conditions of women. After the bill was passed in 1885 the group began campaigning for workers' rights. In December 1889 at a public meeting Lee proposed the formation of a women's trade union. The Working Women's Trades Union was founded in 1890, Mary Lee was the union's secretary for two years. In 1893 Lee attended the Trades and Labor Council meetings, served on the sub-committee which examined conditions in the clothing industry, and on the Distressed Women and Children's Committee which distributed clothes and food to the families hit by the economic depression of the 1890s.\n\nOn 13 July 1888 Lee, the Social Purity League, and others met and formed the South Australian Women's Suffrage League. She was the League's co-honorary secretary and for six and half years she fought for women's suffrage. Her own letters and reports of her speeches show that she was an astute and logical woman, employing sound argument, wit and humour in her correspondence and public speaking. In 1889 she wrote:\nLet husbands, brothers, fathers, be kept in mind that it is the duty of every free man to leave his daughters as free as his sons. -as women assist in maintaining Government they have a right to a say how and by whom they shall be governed. Nineteenth century civilisation has accorded to women the same political status as to the idiot and the criminal. Such is the basis of our reverence for the person of women and of our estimate of her work.\nLee was active in advocating the rights of the working class, publishing the following thoughts in \"The Barrier Miner\" in respect of the 1892 Broken Hill miners' strike:\n\n... Sir, this strike has one feature which renders it more profoundly interesting than any of its predecessors...which must secure it a prominent and distinguished page when the history of these colonies shall be written. It is that the women of Broken Hill are the first great body of working women who have raised their voices in united protest against the glaring injustice that ‘the present constitution will not allow them a voice in framing the laws ...'\n\nBills to grant women's suffrage were put forth in the South Australian parliament between 1889 and 1893, all failed. Spurred on by the grant of women's suffrage in New Zealand, Lee, the Social Purity League, the Woman's Christian Temperance Union and the Democratic League travelled all over South Australia, which included the Northern Territory at the time, collecting signatures on a petition. On 23 August 1894 when the \"Adult Suffrage Bill\" was read in the South Australian parliament, the women presented the great petition. The petition contained 11,600 signatures, on paper sheets from all over the colony, that had been pasted together to make a roll 122 metres long. The bill passed on 18 December 1894, it granted women the right to vote and stand for parliament, and South Australia was the first legislation worldwide to do so.\n\nOnce women had the vote, Lee was active in voter education, encouraging women to enrol and vote. By her 75th birthday 60,000 women had enrolled to vote. In 1885 she was nominated to stand for parliament but refused.\n\nShe was appointed to the honorary position of the only female official visitor to the Lunatic Asylums in 1896. During this latter part of her life, Lee struggled financially and had to sell her library. She continued to correspond with women in other Australian states where suffrage was not yet granted.\n\nShe died in 1909 from pleurisy following influenza and was buried with her son Ben.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2501674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2501674", "title": "Monetization", "text": "Monetization\n\nMonetization (also written monetisation) is the process of converting or establishing something into legal tender. While it usually refers to the coining of currency or the printing of banknotes by central banks, it may also take the form of a promissory currency.\n\nThe term \"monetization\" may also be used informally to refer to exchanging possessions for cash or cash equivalents, including selling a security interest, charging fees for something that used to be free, or attempting to make money on goods or services that were previously unprofitable or had been considered to have the potential to earn profits. And data monetization refers to a spectrum of ways information assets can be converted into economic value. \n\nStill another meaning of \"monetization\" denotes the process by which the U.S. Treasury accounts for the face value of outstanding coinage. This procedure can extend even to one-of-a-kind situations such as when the Treasury Department sold an extremely rare 1933 Double Eagle. The coin's nominal value of $20 was added to the final sale price, reflecting the fact that the coin was considered to have been issued into circulation as a result of the transaction.\n\nSuch commodities as gold, diamonds and emeralds have generally been regarded by human populations as having intrinsic value within that population based on their rarity or quality and thus provide a premium not associated with fiat currency unless that currency is \"promissory\". That is, the currency promises to deliver a given amount of a recognized commodity of a universally (globally) agreed-to rarity and value, providing the currency with the foundation of legitimacy or value. Though rarely the case with paper currency, even intrinsically relatively worthless items or commodities can be made into money, so long as they are difficult to make or acquire.\n\nDebt monetization is the financing of government operations by the central bank. If a nation's expenditure exceeds its revenues, it incurs a government deficit which can be financed by the government treasury by \n\nor by the central bank by\n\nIn the latter case, the central bank may purchase government bonds by conducting an open market purchase, i.e. by increasing the monetary base through the money creation process. If government bonds that have come due are held by the central bank, the central bank will return any funds paid to it back to the treasury. Thus, the treasury may \"borrow\" money without needing to repay it. This process of financing government spending is called \"monetizing the debt\".\n\nIn most high-income countries the government assigns exclusive power to issue its national currency to a central bank, but central banks may be forbidden by law from purchasing debt directly from the government. For example, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (article 123) forbids EU central banks' direct purchase of debt of EU public bodies such as national governments. Their debt purchases have to be from the secondary markets. Monetizing debt is thus a two-step process where the government issues debt (Government bonds) to cover its spending and the central bank purchases the debt, holding it until it comes due, and leaving the system with an increased supply of money. \n\nWhen government deficits are financed through debt monetization the outcome is an increase in the monetary base, shifting the aggregate-demand curve to the right leading to a rise in the price level (unless the money supply is infinitely elastic). When governments intentionally do this, they devalue existing stockpiles of fixed income cash flows of anyone who is holding assets based in that currency. This does not reduce the value of floating or hard assets, and has an uncertain (and potentially beneficial) impact on some equities. It benefits debtors at the expense of creditors and will result in an increase in the nominal price of real estate. This wealth transfer is clearly not a Pareto improvement but can act as a stimulus to economic growth and employment in an economy overburdened by private debt. It is in essence a \"tax\" and a simultaneous redistribution to debtors as the overall value of creditors' fixed income assets drop (and as the debt burden to debtors correspondingly decreases). If the beneficiaries of this transfer are more likely to spend their gains (due to lower income and asset levels) this can stimulate demand and increase liquidity. It also decreases the value of the currency - potentially stimulating exports and decreasing imports - improving the balance of trade. Foreign owners of local currency and debt also lose money. Fixed income creditors experience decreased wealth due to a loss in spending power.\nThis is known as \"inflation tax\" (or \"inflationary debt relief\"). Conversely,\ntight monetary policy which favors creditors over debtors even at the expense of reduced\neconomic growth can also be considered a wealth transfer to holders of fixed assets\nfrom people with debt or with mostly human capital to trade (a \"deflation tax\").\n\nA deficit can be the source of sustained inflation only if it is persistent rather than temporary, and if the government finances it by creating money (through monetizing the debt), rather than leaving bonds in the hands of the public.\n\nIn some industry sectors such as high technology and marketing, monetization is a buzzword for adapting non-revenue-generating assets to generate revenue. Web sites and mobile apps that do generate revenue are often monetized via advertisements, subscription fees or (in the case of mobile) in-app purchases. In the music industry, monetization happens when a recording artist puts a video on the Internet and the platform where it appears shows advertisements before, during, or after the video. For each public viewing, the advertising revenue is shared with the artist or others who hold rights to the video content. A previously free product may have premium options added thus becoming freemium.\n\nFailure to monetize web sites due to an inadequate revenue model was a problem that caused many businesses to fold during the dot-com bust. David Sands, CTO for Citibank Equity Research, affirmed that failure to achieve monetization of the Research Analysts' models as the reason the de-bundling of Equity Research has never taken hold.\n\nMonetization is also used to refer to the process of converting some benefit received in non-monetary form (such as milk) into a monetary payment. The term is used in social welfare reform when converting in-kind payments (such as food stamps or other free benefits) into some \"equivalent\" cash payment. From the point of view of economics and efficiency, it is usually considered better to give someone a monetary equivalent of some benefit than the benefit (say, a liter of milk) in kind.\n\n\nIn 2005, Russia transformed most of its in-kind benefits into monetary compensation.\n\nBefore this reform there were a large system of preferences: free/reduced price of travels on local transport, free supply of drugs, free health resort treatment, etc. for diverse categories of society: military personnel, the disabled, and separately, persons disabled due to World War II, Chernobyl liquidators, inhabitants of Leningrad during the siege, former political prisoners, and for all \"pensioners\" (that is, women 55+, men 60+). This system was a legacy of the Soviet Union, but it was heavily extended by populist laws passed by central and regional authorities during the 1990s.\n\nBy the law 122-ФЗ of 22 August 2004, this system was converted into cash payments by various means:\n\nThe main causes of friction in the reform were the following:\n\nA wave of protests emerged in various parts of Russia in the beginning of 2005 as this law started to take effect. The government responded with measures that eventually addressed the most pressing of the protesters' concerns (raising of compensations, normalization of bureaucratic mechanisms, etc.).\n\nThe long-term effects of the monetization reform varied for different groups. Some people received compensation in excess of the services they had previously received (e.g. in rural areas without any local transport, the free transport benefit was of little value), while others found the compensation to be insufficient to cover the cost of the benefits they had previously depended on. Transport companies and railroads have benefitted from monetization as they now collect higher revenue from the use their services by pensioners who had previously ridden at the government's expense. (In some regions, more than half of the passengers formerly did not pay for municipal transport, but the government did not compensate the transport companies for the full fare of these passengers.) Effects on the medical system are controversial. Doctors and nurses have to fill out many forms in order to receive compensation from the government for services provided to pensioners, thus reducing the time that they have to provide medical services.\n\nIn United States agricultural policy, \"monetization\" is a P.L. 480 provision (section 203) first included in the Food Security Act of 1985 (P.L. 99-198) that allows private voluntary organizations and cooperatives to sell a percentage of donated P.L. 480 commodities in the recipient country or in countries in the same region. Under section 203, private voluntary organizations or cooperatives are permitted to sell (i.e., monetize) for local currencies or dollars an amount of commodities equal to not less than 15% of the total amount of commodities distributed in any fiscal year in a country. The currency generated by these sales can then be used: to finance internal transportation, storage, or distribution of commodities; to implement development projects; or to invest and with the interest earned used to finance distribution costs or projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33865103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33865103", "title": "Mongolian State University of Agriculture", "text": "Mongolian State University of Agriculture\n\nMongolian State University of Agriculture (MSUA) is a national university of Mongolia, with the main branch situated in the capital of Ulaanbaatar. It lies in the southern part of the city in the Khoroo 11 district on the southern side of the Tuul River, just to the northwest of the Zaisan Memorial and the American School of Ulan Bator.\n\nIt was formerly the veterinary faculty of the Mongolian State University and Higher School of Agriculture from 1958 but underwent structural reform in 1990 and 1993, with seven schools, four research institutes and three university branches in Orkhon Province, Dornod Province and Khovd Province since 2001. 7060 undergraduates and 1045 graduates were reported in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "46827565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46827565", "title": "Nasīb (poetry)", "text": "Nasīb (poetry)\n\nNasīb () is an Arabic literary form, 'usually defined as an erotic or amatory prelude to the type of long poem called a \"qaṣīdah\".' However, although at the beginning of the form's development \"nasīb\" meant 'love-song', it came to cover much wider kinds of content: 'The \"nasīb\" usually is understood as the first part of the \"qaṣīdah\" where the poet remembers his beloved. In later ages the \"nasīb\" stood alone, and in that sense the meaning came to be understood as erotic and love poetry.'\n\nEarly and prominent examples of the \"nasīb\" appear in the \"Mu'allaqāt\" of the sixth-century poets Antarah ibn Shaddad and Imru' al-Qais. To quote from Imru' al-Qais's \"Mu'allaqah\":\nStay! let us weep, while memory tries to trace<br>\nThe long-lost fair one's sand-girt dwelling place;<br>\nThough the rude winds have swept the sandy plain,<br>\nStill some faint traces of that spot remain.<br>\nMy comrades reined their coursers by my side,<br>\nAnd \"Yield not, yield not to despair\" they cried.<br>\n(Tears were my sole reply; yet what avail<br>\nTears shed on sands, or sighs upon the gale?)\nOne prominent collection of self-standing \"nasīb\"s (not included in a \"qaṣīdah\") is Muḥyī al-Dīn Ibn al-ʿArabī's \"Tarjumān al-Ashwāq\", a collection of sixty-one \"nasīb\"s.\n\n"}
{"id": "30793907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30793907", "title": "Nepalis in Qatar", "text": "Nepalis in Qatar\n\nNepalis in Qatar are migrants from Nepal to Qatar, mostly migrant workers and permanent residents, as well as their locally born descendants. As of May 2017, 400 thousand Nepali Citizens lived in Qatar as migrant workers, Nepal is second largest expatriate community in Qatar. While there are Nepalese working in the business and administrative sectors of Qatar, most workers from Nepal fall under the umbrella of unskilled labor, and hold jobs in sectors such as construction and landscaping (trading and contracting or sub-contracting companies). Many workers from Nepal are hired to work on the construction of stadiums and railways that are being designed for the 2022 FIFA World Cup to be held in Qatar. According to \"Time Magazine\", due to the terrible working conditions in Qatar, a Nepali worker dies every other day. Though it has been alleged all deaths of Nepali workers in Qatar to the FIFA World Cup 2022, no such deaths have been reported in actual working sites related to the mega event.\n\nQatar is one of the favorite destinations for Nepali job aspirants who are mostly employed in construction works. All unqualified jobs are done by foreigners especially the Nepalis, who, nowadays, are the most sought after compared to Indians or other nationalities. About 9,650 Nepali nationals arrived in Qatar in December 2010. The Nepalese workers have a reputation of being hardworking, honest, cheap and not prone to complaining. According to the former Nepalese ambassador to Qatar, Surynath Mishra, \"Nepali migrant workers have the lowest per capita income in Qatar.\" According to the ambassador, they lack of education and technical skills mean that \"They get exploited the most out of all the migrant workers.\"\n\nThere has also been a steady increase in the number of Nepalese expatriates coming to Qatar to take up employment. There are currently about 100 executives from Nepal in Qatar. A growing number of employers in Qatar are showing more interest hiring engineers, accountants, hotel and travel professionals from Nepal.\n\nA major concern among the Nepalese officials in Qatar is the rise of deaths of Nepalese workers. Nepalese migrants building the infrastructure to host the 2022 World Cup have died at a rate of one every two days in 2014. According to Nepalese Ambassador Suryanath Mishra, Two-third of the deaths are caused by stress because they are cheated by employment agencies and his embassy receives about 20 complaints each day from Nepalese victims of such fraud and that about 10 Nepalese return to their home country each day from Qatar because of such scams. The International Trade Union Confederation estimated that the worker death toll could hit 4,000 (nine deaths were associated with the last two World Cups, in Brazil and South Africa) before the 2022 World Cup begins. Nepalese workers in Qatar are forced to work 10- to 14-hour work days, often in extreme heat, with four hours of sleep, and live in cramped accommodations with poor sanitation. Many have gone into debt just to get to Qatar and frequently have to work overtime to make ends meet. Some make only one-third of the money that they’re initially promised.\n\nIn 2013 a change.org petition began entitled, “End slavery of Nepalese migrant workers in Qatar!” The petition called on the government of Qatar to make specific changes to its migrant worker policy, specifically regarding the country’s Nepali workers. Among the demands were:\nIn 2015, the Nepalese in Qatar made headlines all over the world when, after an earthquake in Nepal killed 8,000 people, Qatar refused to let their Nepalese workers leave to attend the funerals of their family members in Nepal. It was after this moment that the government in Kathmandu publicly criticized FIFA for the first time, insisting that the organization should use its leverage to pressure Qatar into improving working conditions for the 1.5 million migrants employed in Qatar as part of the World Cup construction frenzy. Tek Bahadur Gurung, Nepal’s labour minister, said: “After the earthquake of 25 April, we requested all companies in Qatar to give their Nepalese workers special leave and pay for their air fare home. While workers in some sectors of the economy have been given this, those on World Cup construction sites are not being allowed to leave because of the pressure to complete projects on time.” He further added that the workers have, “lost relatives and their homes and are enduring very difficult conditions in Qatar. This is adding to their suffering.” The labor minister said that conditions for Nepalese workers in Qatar would not change unless FIFA and their sponsors put pressure on the small gulf state. The Nepali government estimates that around $4bn is sent home to Nepal every year by expatriates who work in the Persian Gulf region. This number accounts for nearly 20% of the country’s gross domestic product, and is money that would ultimately play an important role in rebuilding Nepal after the two earthquakes. The government of Nepal even offered to pay for the workers’ flights home to attend funeral services but the Qatari companies would not allow them bereavement leave.\n\nIn October 2015, more than 40 migrant Nepali workers based in Qatar were arrested by Qatari police and sent to the deportation center. The workers had been seeking justice for a year against their employer who had denied them regular payments. According to one Nepali worker, the police came into the labor camp where the workers are housed at midnight to arrest them: “The police arrested all our friends who were sleeping at the camp … Those who were not in the camp escaped the arrest.” Prior to their arrest, the workers had issued lawsuits against their employer Metal Farming Centre including at the High Court and Supreme Court of Qatar because they had not been paid in 15 months. The company hired 118 construction workers out of which 88 were Nepal is.\n\nIn most cases, when Nepalese workers come to Qatar, they have to pay fees to recruitment officers in Nepal including: processing fees, visa fees, and airplane tickets. This means that Nepali workers arrive in Qatar in a massive amount of debt before they even begin working. In 2016, Narayan Kaji Shrestha, head of the Unified Communist Party of Nepal, went to Qatar and asked the Qatari government to assist in a plan to minimize processing fees for laborers by monitoring the companies that hire Nepali workers and by helping to implement a “free ticket, free visa” system. In Qatar it is illegal to charge recruitment fees, however the practice exists in Nepal. A 2014 report commissioned by the Qatar Foundation showed that recruitment fees for workers average $1,300.\n\n"}
{"id": "2988373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2988373", "title": "Open Space Technology", "text": "Open Space Technology\n\nOpen Space Technology (OST) is a method for organizing and running a meeting or multi-day conference, where participants have been invited in order to focus on a specific, important task or purpose. OST is a participant-driven process whose agenda is created by people attending. At the end of each OST meeting, a document is created summarizing the work of the group. The OST method is based upon work, beginning in the 1980s, by Owen Harrison. It was one of the top ten organization development tools cited between 2004 and 2013.\nHarrison Owen, an Episcopal priest and Civil Rights activist, developed the idea of OST in the 1980s, based on his experience that coffee breaks and other unorganized encounters were the most productive parts of formal meetings. At the time, Owen was considered by many large corporations to be one of several New Age consultants whose methods might encourage employee participation and interest in company problems.\n\n\"Open space\" meetings are called \"self-organizing\" because, even though all participants have been invited by meeting sponsor and charged with addressing a pre-chosen theme, the agenda and organization of further discussions are created by the participants.\n\nAn \"open space\" meeting usually will start with short introductions by the sponsor and a single facilitator. The sponsor introduces the purpose; the facilitator explains the \"self-organizing\" process that is called \"open space.\" Throughout the process, the ideal facilitator is described as being \"fully present and totally invisible\", \"holding a space\" for participants to self-organize, rather than managing or directing the conversations.\n\nBecause the agenda of an Open Space meeting is emergent, it is impossible to know exactly what is going to be addressed during the meeting. That said, there are several important outcomes that are specifically built into the process, and some other outcomes that can be built in.\n\nAt the end of an open space meeting, notes on the proceedings are usually compiled into a document that is distributed physically or electronically to all participants. Good documentation design is vital for ideas, suggestions, discourse, and improvements; it is part of the pre-work to make a good design.\n\nSeveral other approaches to meeting organization share one or more features with OST. For example, several approaches other than OST are often called \"unconferences\", e.g. FooCamp and BarCamp. Both FooCamp and BarCamp are participant-driven, like OST, but neither is organized around a pre-set theme or aimed at solving a problem. The first Foo Camp was organized by Tim O'Reilly and Sara Winge; because Sara had been a student of Harrison Owen, many elements similar to OST are used in Foo Camp.\n\nA design sprint (a meeting technique related to design thinking and pioneered by Google Ventures) is similar to OST in that participants are invited by an organizer to work collaboratively on solving a problem, with the help of a facilitator who is trained in running such meetings. All participants are asked to contribute ideas toward what the problem is and how to solve it, but in a design sprint the facilitator is not invisible but in charge, guiding participants through a (typically) five-day process whose output includes a prototype part-solution and a user-test by some typical \"customers.\"\n\nSome meeting organizers use Open Space techniques in combination with other methods, to avoid what they see as \"shortcomings\" of OST, for example an atmosphere that is potentially unfriendly for introverts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19400366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19400366", "title": "Public holidays in Belize", "text": "Public holidays in Belize\n\nThis is a list of public holidays in Belize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1309334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1309334", "title": "Public holidays in Bulgaria", "text": "Public holidays in Bulgaria\n\nThe official public holidays in Bulgaria are listed in the table below.\n\n"}
{"id": "32291785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32291785", "title": "Quiet Birdmen", "text": "Quiet Birdmen\n\nThe Quiet Birdmen is a secretive club in the United States for male aviators. Founded in 1921 by World War I pilots, the organization meets in various locations, never announced to the public. Members, called QBs, must be invited to join, and they join for life. Today, the club's membership, organized into regional \"hangars\", is made up primarily of retired airline, military and freight pilots, as well as a few astronauts. It is also known as ye Anciente and Secret Order of Quiet Birdmen.\n\nIn France in November 1919, a group of World War I aviators started a drinking club called \"The American Flying Club\", and re-convened in New York City only to be barred from their clubhouse by the bailiff. In January 1921, a subset of that group, some ten to twenty aviators, began meeting fairly regularly on Monday nights in New York City at Marta, an Italian restaurant located at 75 Washington Place in the Greenwich Village neighborhood. Harold Hersey, the editor of \"Aces High\" magazine, ironically called the group the Quiet Birdmen because they were so boisterous. At one meeting, reporter Steve Hannigan noticed the jocular group, and visited again the next week, bringing a sketch artist. Hannigan wrote up a feature story about the group, accompanied by a sketch—the first public information about the group. The attendees that night were Harry Bruno, S. H. MacKeon, Wallace James, Richard R. \"Dick\" Blythe, Earle D. Osborn, Charles S. \"Casey\" Jones, Harold T. \"Slim\" Lewis, Ernest Loftquis, Paul G. Zimmerman, Donald Mcllhenny, Ladislas d'Orcy, Richard H. DePew Jr, George Hubbard, R. B. C. Noorduyn, John (Jack) Bishop and J. E. Whitbeck. Because the group grew too large, or because of the noise bothering other patrons, the management at Marta stopped them from meeting there. Subsequent meetings were held in a different location each time, often a restaurant. Membership in the 1920s cost one dollar and lasted until death. In the 1920s the emblem of the club was created: a blue shield with the letters QB in silver, the shield flanked by silver wings. In 1938, the club's meetings settled into the building owned by the Architectural League of New York.\n\nHarvey Mummert, vice president and chief engineer of Mercury Aircraft, has been credited as co-founder of the club. Early members Bruno and Blythe started a public relations firm in 1923 and in 1927 they became known for promoting Charles Lindbergh's solo trans-Atlantic flight. Lindbergh was made a member of the Quiet Birdmen. Unusually, a former combat foe was invited to join the club: Ernst Udet, the highest-scoring German flying ace to survive World War I. Known as a fun-loving playboy, Udet performed aerobatics at the National Air Races in Cleveland in 1931 and '32, Los Angeles in '33, and again in Cleveland in '38. While visiting the U.S., Udet befriended Lindbergh, Eddie Rickenbacker, Jimmy Doolittle, Wiley Post, Roscoe Turner and other American QBs.\n\nOutside of New York, other Quiet Birdmen regional groups, or hangars, were formed. Before 1938, the club had a strict agreement against having a constitution, by-laws, dues, assessments, or club officers. No business was to be conducted, and no sales. Only male aviators were allowed to join, not female aviators or \"Keewees\" (non-flyers). At the Cleveland Air Races in 1938, the QBs adopted a slightly more formal arrangement: a Board of Governors would be composed of one member from each hangar, and this board would choose an Executive Committee. Each regional hangar was to select a Key Man to handle club business. A year later, the group settled upon a QB Code of Procedure which described the structure of the club. During World War II in London, England, a temporary hangar was formed in 1943 for club members posted to the UK. The club's national Code of Procedure was modified again in 1953.\n\nIn addition to the still existing New York Hangar, other early Hangars, originally called \"leantos\" to the original New York Hangar, had been formed. Currently Hangars are formed independently and exist in Washington DC, Cleveland, Atlantic City, Wayne, San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, Palomar in San Diego County, Oxnard/Santa Barbara, Fresno, Santa Ana, Long Beach, Palm Desert, Philadelphia, Rhode Island, Ocala, Seattle, North Cascade in northern Washington state, Milwaukee, Fort Worth, Amarillo, Dallas, Houston, Phoenix, Columbia and Greenville in South Carolina, Daytona Beach, Honolulu, Kalamazoo, Lansing, Boise, Hartford, Rockford, Akron, Indiana, Syracuse, Las Vegas, Cincinnati, Tampa Bay, Orlando, Melbourne, Venice, Stuart, Jackson, Knoxville, Wilmington, Greensboro, New Orleans, Cape Cod, Kansas City, Austin, Dallas, San Antonio, Buffalo, Binghamton, Fort Smith, Chicago, Jackson Hole, Boston, Somerville, Hilton Head, Anchorage, Hagerstown, Denver, Lehigh Valley, Atlanta, Waterloo, and Tulsa, Shreveport, Colorado Springs, Salt Lake City, Pensacola, Trenton, and perhaps other cities throughout the US.\n\nDepending on its location, QB regular activities generally reflect the age of its members. Typical QB get-togethers start with a silent toast to deceased members, glasses raised to the west in keeping with an old pilot's expression euphemistically referring to death as having \"Gone West.\" Food and drink are served, and perhaps a talk or other program is given. Off-color jokes are plentiful. Occasionally semi-nude female entertainment has been seen at some of the meetings, especially the Wing Dings, which are larger parties held in late spring or summer.\n\nThe Quiet Birdmen print a periodical called \"BEAM\" which features stories, jokes, and news of hangar get-togethers. No photos of QB parties are allowed in the journal. From time to time, various hangars have published commemorative membership books consisting of a brief recounting of the club's history, and photograph portraits of individual members. One such book was owned by club member K. S. \"Slim\" Lindsay, printed in May 1936. After Lindsay's death, it was donated in 2007 by his daughter to Wright State University. The leather-bound book has 160 pages and 640 photographs of Quiet Birdmen including portraits of Jimmy Doolittle, Wiley Post, Roscoe Turner, Walter R. Brookins and Ephraim Watkins \"Pop\" Cleveland. Another QB book was donated to the National Air and Space Museum by Arthur Raymond Brooks; it contains photographs of the members of the New York hangar and a description of the history and by-laws of the club.\n\nAstronaut Edward Givens died in a car crash following a QB meeting. On a rainy Monday night, June 5, 1967, the Houston hangar of Quiet Birdmen met at the Skylane Motel on Telephone Road in Pearland, Texas. Fellow astronaut Gordon Cooper was there, and so were two U.S. Air Force reservists who had just been invited to their first QB meeting: Major William \"Bill\" Hall and Lieutenant Colonel Francis \"Fran\" Dellorto. Hall and Dellorto were told that they would become full members after attending twelve meetings. Givens was not drinking alcoholic beverages at the party as he was required at an important meeting the following morning. Between 11:30 pm and midnight, Givens offered Hall and Dellorto a ride back to their quarters at Ellington Air Force Base in Houston, and the three left the motel in Givens' Volkswagen Beetle. Givens drove north toward the main east–west highway, but mistakenly turned east onto parallel Knapp Road. He missed a sharp turn in the road and the car crashed into an irrigation ditch. Though he was wearing his lap belt, Givens' chest was crushed against the steering wheel. In the front passenger seat, Dellorto was seriously injured, while in the back seat, Hall was in fair condition. Givens, 37 years old, died on the way to the hospital early on June 6, pronounced dead on arrival at 12:40 am.\n\nIn Ventura, California, on a Monday night in October 1974, Ben Rich gave a talk to the Oxnard and Santa Barbara hangar of Quiet Birdmen about the Skunk Works program at Lockheed. Rich spoke of the Lockheed U-2 and SR-71 Blackbird programs which had recently been declassified, and identified QB member and attendee R. Scott Beat as a former U-2 pilot. Beat wrote in his book \"So Many Ways to Die: Surviving As a Spy in the Sky\" that this was the first time any of his friends or family had heard of that part of his past—he had faithfully kept the government's secrets to himself.\n\nBeginning in 1971, rancher and aviator John S. \"Jack\" Broome, a founding member of the Oxnard hangar, held an annual private airshow and barbecue for the Quiet Birdmen at his ranch in Camarillo, California. Members of the Commemorative Air Force and Planes of Fame often piloted several of their warbirds at the events. After Broome died in April 2009, the 39th annual airshow was held in his memory in June 2009. The Broome family hosted one final private airshow for the Quiet Birdmen on June 14, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "16095066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16095066", "title": "Science project", "text": "Science project\n\nA science project is an educational activity for students involving experiments or construction of models in one of the science disciplines. Students may present their science project at a science fair, so they may also call it a science fair project. Science projects may be classified into four main types. Science projects are done by students worldwide.\n\nExperimental projects, also known as investigatory projects, start with a question (AKA a hypothesis), use the scientific method to complete the research, and end with a report detailing the results and conclusions and an abstract.\n\nEngineering projects, also known as technology projects, start with a design of a machine or mechanical structure with the purpose of improving strength or performance. Researchers implement all their design ideas in a model they construct. The model will be tested to evaluate the design.\n\nDisplay projects involve a creative assembly of a display board and construction of a model to show a visual representation of a larger fact. Making a model of the solar system, a house, or of a simple electric circuit are considered display projects. Display boards are used to enhance the presentation. A tablet computer can be attached to the display board to make interactive display boards.\n\nTheoretical projects may involve the same format as experimental or engineering projects. However, for\nseveral possible reasons, such as lack of feasibility due to costs, the actual experiment is not performed.\n\n"}
{"id": "3161049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3161049", "title": "Sindhura Gadde", "text": "Sindhura Gadde\n\nSindhura Gadde is an Indian actress and former Femina Miss India World who also made to the semi-finals of Miss World Pageant in 2005.\n\nSindhura Gadde was born in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. She was raised by her grandparents in Vijayawada, while her parents were working abroad in New Zealand. When she was 10 years old, she moved to New Zealand. After completing her studies in New Zealand, she started her career in media and fashion industry. She returned to India and completed her double degree in Pharmacology & Physiology and a diploma in modeling. She also took introduction courses in Japanese, Chinese and Arabic.\n\nShe was crowned Femina Miss India World in 2005. When asked in the semi-final round which invention they would like to create and why, she replied she wanted to develop a natural remedy for cancer. After winning the contest, she said \"she felt on top of the world at winning, and hoped to make India proud globally\". Her fashion designer during the contest was Jayaram Ramineni\nShe was 1st runner up at Miss India NZ 2002 and 2nd runner up in Miss Auckland 2002.\nSince her crowning, she has made several public appearances such as the TANA Conference 2005 in Detroit, Michigan and at the Hindu Samaj Temple in Wappingers Falls, New York. Sindhura made it to the semi-finals in the 2005 Miss World Pageant held in China.\n\nGadde made her debut in Tollywood in the movie \"Sangamam\" opposite Rohit Khurana. The Telugu movie was directed by Rasool Ellore and produced by P Ramana and Gavara Parthasarathy. She also did a bit of role in \"Heyy Babyy\" and signed Nagesh Kukunoor's \"Bemisal\", but that film didn't go into production. She then went back to do a Telugu movie \"Amaravathi\" with director by Ravi Babu and \"Killer\".\n\nShe also continued to host Femina Miss India South for 3 continuous years.\n\nOn 4 December 2010, she married her boyfriend of 10 years, Jonathan Ward in New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2369153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2369153", "title": "Singapore Cricket Club", "text": "Singapore Cricket Club\n\nThe Singapore Cricket Club (Abbreviation: SCC; ) is one of the premier sports and social clubs in Singapore. Its clubhouse is located on Connaught Drive on the south end of the Padang in Singapore's central business district.\n\nThe SCC was established in 1837. Over the years, the club has had three clubhouse buildings on the Padang. The first was erected in the 1860s and the second in 1877. The third, which forms the core of the present-day clubhouse, was built in 1884. \n\nAs the second oldest club in Singapore, the SCC today has over 3,000 members. Cricket, rugby, football and field hockey are played on the Padang, and the club also has facilities for squash, tennis, lawn bowls, billiards and snooker.\n\nThe club has played host to many international cricket events over the years. It also hosts the annual Singapore Cricket Club International Rugby Sevens tournament and an annual Soccer Sevens competition.\n\nThey also have a football team participating in the National Football League\n\n"}
{"id": "44247801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44247801", "title": "Spanish immigration to Guatemala", "text": "Spanish immigration to Guatemala\n\nThe arrival of the Spaniards in Guatemala began in 1524 with the conquest of the Guatemalan Highlands and neighbouring Pacific plain under the command of Pedro de Alvarado. After the conquest and the colonial era, more people came to the country not as conquerors, but to do business or daily activities.\n\nEarly European immigrants to Guatemala were Spaniards who conquered the indigenous Maya population in 1524. They ruled for almost 300 years. Although the Spanish conquest of Guatemala was primarily the result of its technical superiority, the Spaniards were helped by Nahua allies from central Mexico, and by indigenous Maya who were already involved in bitter struggles between rival kingdoms. Following the Spaniards' arrival, European epidemics and oppression of conquerors reduced the indigenous population from 14 million to 2 million in two generations. Currently, the population of indigenous people is nearly 5 million.\n\nDespite being greatly outnumbered by the Maya - historians estimate that only a few thousand Spaniards settled in Guatemala before independence - the latter were able to impose their colonial system through a reign of terror. As a result of Guatemala having few naturally-rich resources, like gold and silver, the Spanish conquest focused their efforts on forced labor of the indigenous population.\n\nThe Spaniards established a system of domination that ensured slaves worked the land and paid taxes in the form of goods. The system is structured to exploit the indigenous population without destroying it. In 1663, King Philip IV of Spain tried to abolish slavery in the colonies, but the criollos (those of Spanish origin born in Guatemala), fought fervently to ensure that forced labor continued to practice until the early 20th century.\n\nHowever, when legislation to safeguard these lands was abolished in the 19th century, the criollos (from Spain, Germany and Switzerland) and Ladino soon came and established plantations producing export crops, turning the rural population into a mass of unemployed migrant farm workers.\n\nIn 1821, the Republic of Guatemala - which included the Soconusco region (now part of southern Mexico), as well as what are now the countries of El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica - had just 1.5 million inhabitants, mostly concentrated in the urban centers of the republic. In 1823, after a brief period as part of the Mexican Empire, the republic became known as the United Provinces of Central America.\n\nAfter a period of political instability exacerbated by the collapse of the world market for indigo, main exporter in the region of Europe, each province seceded from the federation, starting with Costa Rica. The federation collapsed between 1838 and 1840, when Guatemala became an independent nation.\n\n8,507,511 (probably 55% of mestizo and direct descendants of Spaniards).\n\nSpanish architectures and constructions found in Antigua Guatemala was part of the colonial period in Guatemala.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8115689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8115689", "title": "Surinamese Dutch", "text": "Surinamese Dutch\n\nSurinamese Dutch (Dutch: \"Surinaams-Nederlands\", ) is the form of Dutch spoken in Suriname and is the official language in Suriname, a former Dutch colony. Dutch is spoken as a native language by about 60% of the population, most of them being bilingual with Sranan Tongo, Hindustani, Javanese, and other languages. Nevertheless, Dutch is the sole official language of the country. Surinamese Dutch is easily intelligible with other forms of Dutch. Furthermore, as opposed to other languages that have different forms in the Americas (e.g., American English vs. British English) the regulation and thus standardised spelling of the Dutch language is done through a joint Dutch-Belgian-Surinamese organization, the Dutch Language Union, and thus has no regional differences regarding spelling. Suriname has been an associate member of this Nederlandse Taalunie since 2005. Therefore, many typical Surinamese words were added to the official Wordlist of Standard Dutch, known as \"the Green Booklet\" (\"Groene Boekje\").\n\nSome words exclusive to Surinamese Dutch are \"okseltruitje, bacove, cellulair, wied, zwamp, roti, kouseband, schaafijs, bobo\" and \"buitenvrouw.\" Surinamese Dutch has been heavily influenced by other languages spoken by residents.\n\nIn Surinamese Dutch, the voiced fricatives have completely merged with the voiceless into voiceless .\n\nDutch was introduced in what is now Suriname when Paramaribo and its environs became a Dutch colony. The remainder of Suriname, however, remained in British hands. Only after the Dutch had lost New Netherland (including present-day New York City) to the British did they in exchange receive the rest of Suriname. After this, Dutch became the language of communication between Native Surinamese, Africans and the Dutch colonial administration. In 1876, the language in addition became official in the Surinamese education system whilst new immigrants from British India and Java also picked up the language. These immigrants also added features to spoken Dutch that are not present in European variants of Dutch.\n"}
{"id": "23600007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23600007", "title": "Sustainable House Day", "text": "Sustainable House Day\n\nSustainable House Day is a national event held annually across Australia, where households open their doors to the public to give interested people the chance to learn about the benefits of energy efficiency in their homes. People have the opportunity to talk with sustainable home owners, architects, builders, designers and energy auditors to learn about sustainable living. The 2018 date is September 16.\n"}
{"id": "42535302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42535302", "title": "Teen Tech Week", "text": "Teen Tech Week\n\nTeen Tech Week is an annual national event held on the second week in March by YALSA in conjunction with ALA. Teen Tech Week promotes digital resources within libraries across the country that are available for teens and their families. Overall, the general theme of Teen Tech Week is \"Get Connected\". If the current years specific theme does not speak to you or your library you can always use the general theme instead. The most important thing about Teen Tech Week is that teens are being encouraged to come out and visit their local library and learn about all of the different technical and digital tools that are available to them.\n\nThis year's theme was DIY@your library. \"Libraries bridge the gap between in-school and out-of-school time, helping teens learn through digital media so they can achieve more academically and develop the digital and media literacy skills they will need in order to be informed, productive citizens.\"\n\nThe 2015 theme was \"Libraries Are for the Making.\"\n\nWhile there are millions of teens who do not have access to a home computer most still have access to a library. Libraries give teens the opportunity to gain important digital literacy skills. \"Libraries offer a bridge across the digital divide. Libraries also recognize that digital media plays an important part in a teens’ life. That is why more libraries than ever are helping teens build critical digital literacy skills, which they will use to obtain scholarships, secure jobs, effectively manage their online identity and more.\n\nThe first thing that you should do is sign up on YALSA's website to let them know that you are participating. The reason for this is because YALSA is a nonprofit organization that depends on the support of its members. When you register on the website you are letting them know that \"your library supports encouraging teens to be safe, responsible users of the many technologies available to them. By registering, you are telling YALSA that this program is worthwhile, and we will continue to sponsor the week.\" \n\nOnce registered how you participate?\n\nThere are numerous ways in which you and your library can participate in Teen Tech Week. You can incorporate special programs or activities into your library program for that week or you can even simply push your digital media items and encourage the teens and parents who come into the library and check them out and help them learn about what is available to them.\n\nCan non-librarians participate?\n\nYES! \"Teen Tech Week is a national initiative aimed at teens, their parents, librarians, educators, booksellers and other concerned adults. If you would like to participate, just register!\" \n\nAre you a teen? Then here is what you can do!\n\n\"The best thing to do is to talk to your public or school librarian. Ask them if they have anything planned for Teen Tech Week and let them know you are interested in helping out. If your teacher or librarian does not have anything planned or has never heard of Teen Tech Week, show them this web site and help them get started!\" \n\nWhat does it cost to participate in Teen Tech Week ?\n\nThere is no cost for participating in Teen Tech Week. Promotional materials are made available to be purchased but they are not required to participate.\n\nIf you have any additional questions about Teen Tech Week you might want to check out their Frequently Asked Questions Page.\n\nYALSA has created their own Wiki page about Teen Tech Week.\n\nFor more information on YALSA you can check out their Wiki page here.\n\nALA is the parent organization of YALSA and for more information on them you can find it here at their Wikipedia page.\n"}
{"id": "29566307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29566307", "title": "Utah Compact", "text": "Utah Compact\n\nThe Utah Compact is a declaration of five principles whose stated purpose is to \"guide Utah's immigration discussion.\" At a ceremony held on the grounds of the Utah State Capitol on November 11, 2010, it was signed by business, law enforcement and religious leaders including the Catholic Diocese of Salt Lake City, and by various other community leaders and individuals.\n\nThe Principles of the Utah Compact are\n\n\nAmong supporters, the compact was complimented in a New York Times editorial as coming from \"people of good sense and good will\". The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) notably endorsed the Compact via a public statement, though it declined to sign the Compact itself. The LDS Church counts about half of Utah's residents as its adherents, but the Compact is more controversial in Utah Mormon culture itself.\n\nThe Utah Compact is alleged by the Minuteman Project, conservative commentator Bob Lonsberry, and former Arizona State Senator Karen Johnson to contain deliberately misleading language intended to subtly promote tolerance of illegal immigration, opposition to enforcement of immigration law, and amnesty for illegal aliens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23844963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23844963", "title": "Violence against prostitutes", "text": "Violence against prostitutes\n\nViolence against prostitutes has been reported worldwide, both on a physical and psychological level. The victims are predominantly women, including in extreme cases murder both inside and outside the workplace.\n\nWomen working in prostitution experience more levels of violence against them than women working in other fields. In 2004 the homicide rate for female sex workers in the United States was estimated to be 204 per 100,000, although this figure mixes illegal work with legal work. This figure is considerably higher than that for the next riskiest occupations in the United States during a similar period (4 per 100,000 for female liquor store workers and 29 per 100,000 for male taxicab drivers). The prevalence of violence against prostitutes varies by location. A study of female prostitutes in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada over the age of 14 who used illicit drugs other than marijuana found that 57% of prostitutes experienced some form of gender-based violence over an 18-month period. However, a study of 1,000 female (both cisgender and transgender) sex-workers in Phnom Penh, Cambodia found 93% of women surveyed had been the victim of rape in the past year.\n\nPhysical violence is defined by the World Health Organization as \"the intentional use of physical force or power, threatened or actual, against oneself, another person, or against a group or community, which either results in or has a high likelihood of resulting in injury, death, psychological harm, maldevelopment, or deprivation\". Physical violence is more commonly experienced by outdoor sex-workers with 47% of prostitutes working outdoors reporting being kicked, punched, or slapped in one study. In a study of prostitutes working in San Francisco, 82% of participants reported having experienced some type of physical violence since entering prostitution, with 55% of these assaults being committed by a client. A different study found a slightly rate lower with 74% of sex-workers reported experiencing some form of physical abuse in their lifetime. Regardless, the general consensus among most studies regarding violence against prostitutes is that rates of physical violence against prostitutes is extremely high, particularly among female sex workers (transgender inclusive) who experience higher rates of physical violence than their male counterparts.\n\nPsychological abuse, also referred to as mental abuse or emotional abuse is characterized by a person subjecting or exposing another to behavior that may result in psychological trauma, including anxiety, chronic depression, or post-traumatic stress disorder. The United Nations Population Fund says that this type of violence \"includes, but is not limited to, being insulted (e.g. called derogatory names) or made to feel bad about oneself; being humiliated or belittled in front of other people; being threatened with loss of custody of one's children; being confined or isolated from family or friends; being threatened with harm to oneself or someone one cares about; repeated shouting, inducing fear through intimidating words or gestures; controlling behavior; and the destruction of possessions.\" There are certain types of psychological or emotional abuse that sex workers are more prone to such as denial of basic needs, forced drug or alcohol consumption, and being arrested for carrying condoms to name a few. Women working in prostitution are especially vulnerable to psychological abuse, particularly verbal abuse, because many customers and other members of society view them as \"whores\" or as generally undesirable women. Often verbal abuse will occur either while the service is being given, or after it has been given and the customer is not satisfied. In both these cases, verbal abuse can be a precursor to sexual violence from the client. In one study, 78% of sex-workers reported having experienced emotional or psychological abuse in their lifetime.\n\nSexual violence is any sexual act or attempt to obtain a sexual act by violence or coercion, unwanted sexual comments or advances, acts to traffic a person or acts directed against a person's sexuality, regardless of the relationship to the victim. The risks of sexual abuse are overall lower than the risks of physical abuse. with the exception of indoor prostitutes who report a higher rate of rape or attempted rape than any one type of physical violence. In one study, 44% of sex-workers reported having experienced sexual abuse in their lifetime. Rates of sexual assault and rape are higher among women (including transgender women) than among men, though the overall rate is high with one study finding that 68% of respondents had been raped since entering prostitution. These high levels of sexual violence suffered by sex workers have very traumatic effects on the men and women working as prostitutes. High levels of rape other forms of sexual violence while working as a prostitute have been linked to higher levels of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).\n\nStudies have shown that younger sex-workers tend to experience more client violence than their older colleagues. Furthermore, cisgender and transgender female sex workers are also more likely to experience violence committed by a client than their male sex worker counterparts.\n\nLaws prohibiting prostitution can make it difficult for the men and women engaging in prostitution to report any violence they may experience while on the job. Often transactions or arrangements to meet up with clients must be made in secret in places where prostitution is illegal. The decriminalization of sex work in New Zealand has shown that violence is reduced when sex workers are not forced to work alone, or in isolated places. Sex work was always legal in New Zealand but decriminalization removed laws that increased danger.\nThere are substantial differences in rates of victimization between street prostitutes and indoor sex workers who work as call girls, or in brothels and massage parlors. Women who work legally in licensed brothels are much less likely to be victimized, as are indoor workers in countries where sex work is legal. A 1999 study of 240 prostitutes found that half of sex-workers working outside faced some type of violence in the past six months, compared to a quarter of those working indoors.\n\nPerpetrators may include violent clients and pimps. Clients oftentimes attempt to maintain a power balance that favors them over the prostitutes. This is often done through different methods of violence such as sexual, emotional, and physical. Though pimps may be perpetrators of violence against sex workers with 53% of sex workers in one study reporting that violence at the hands of pimps is a major problem, 33% of subjects interviewed in that same study reported that the main benefit to having a pimp is the protection from potential assault.\n\nBecause of the illegality of sex work in many parts of the world, sex workers often have to service clients in discreet and isolated spaces where they are less likely to get caught by the police. Because of this isolation, sex workers are made more vulnerable to attacks by their clients. According to a study conducted on one hundred and thirty people working in San Francisco as street sex workers, 82% had been physically assaulted, 83% had been threatened with a weapon and 68% had been raped while working as prostitutes.\n\nIn countries such as the United States sex work is illegal, and so sex workers are not able to report violence done against them in fear of being arrested themselves. In certain states anti-prostitution mandates carry a minimum sentence and can increase to felony charge after multiple arrests, which leads to difficulty finding housing and employment, and disqualification for welfare benefits. Additionally sex workers may be registered as sex offenders, or face deportation if they have precarious migratory or citizenship status.\n\nBecause of the stigma that exists around sex work, police are less likely to investigate attacks on sex workers. As one sex worker in South Africa reports \"to gather evidence of a crime against a sex worker, they have to first take it seriously,”. “If we go to the police to report abuse, we’re made fun of, we’re told ‘you deserve it.’ They chase you away,” notes another sex worker.\n\nPolice officers themselves are common perpetrators of violence against prostitutes. A study of sex-workers in Phnom Penh, Cambodia found that half of the women had been beaten by police and about a third had been gang-raped by police. \"In South Africa, where sex work has been illegal since the former apartheid regime criminalized it in 1957, police officers often fine sex workers inordinate sums of money and pocket the cash, resulting in a pattern of economic extortion of sex workers by state agents.\"\n\nSex workers (particularly those engaging in street prostitution) are also sometimes targeted by serial killers, who may consider them easy targets and less likely to be missed, or who use the religious and social stigma associated with sex workers as justification for their murder.\n\nThe unidentified serial killer known as Jack the Ripper killed at least five sex workers in London in 1888. Due to the frequent murders of prostitutes at that time and place, however, it is difficult to be certain of the number killed by Jack the Ripper. These particular murders are distinguished from other murders of sex workers during the same time period due to the post-mortem mutilations that occurred, and it is for that reason that other murders of prostitutes are not usually attributed to the Ripper, or are disputed.\n\nPeter Sutcliffe (aka the Yorkshire Ripper) murdered 13 women, some of whom were sex workers, from 1975-1980 in Northern England.\n\nGary Ridgway (aka the Green River Killer), confessed to killing 48 sex workers from 1982 to 1998, making him one of the most prolific serial killers in U.S. history.\n\nRobert Hansen murdered between 15 and 21 sex workers, near Anchorage, Alaska, between 1980 and 1983.\n\nJoel Rifkin confessed to killing 17 sex workers in the New York area between 1989 and 1993, without there having been a missing persons report filed on any of the women during that time.\n\nRobert Pickton, a Canadian who lived near Vancouver, made headlines after the remains of numerous missing sex workers were found on his family farm. He has now been convicted of the murders of 6 women who went missing from Vancouver's Downtown Eastside, and is suspected by police of killing at least twenty more (though no charges have been filed in relation to their deaths). In December 2007 he was sentenced to life in prison, with no possibility of parole for 25 years.\n\nIn December 2006, Steve Wright murdered five sex workers in Ipswich, England (see Ipswich serial murders).\n\nMost efforts to advocate for prostitutes have focused on prevention of the spread of AIDS/HIV+ among the general population rather than focusing on how certain policies would benefit the prostitutes themselves. This focus has neglected many of the issues of violence facing sex workers. Recently, however, there has been an effort to eradicate violence against prostitutes from a wider perspective. The United Nations Population Fund, in conjunction with several other organizations, recommends community empowerment, led by sex workers, as a way to combat violence against sex-workers. UNPF also advocates for changing perceptions to view sex work as work, rather than an illegal activity. One issue facing efforts to prevent violence against prostitutes is that there is a low level of reporting violence among prostitutes. A study of female sex-workers in India found that 54% of female sex-workers do not report violence committed against them, and only 36% shared their experience with NGOs or a peer or family member.\n\nBecause of the increased risk of violence associated with working in sex work, many sex workers have begun adopting their own personal policies to reduce the likelihood of becoming the victims of violence. A study by Maureen A. Norton-Hawk found that \"40% percent of sex workers have a policy of refusing to provide services in an alley, 54% refuse to provide services in a drug house, and 68% refuse to provide services in an abandoned building.\" Often sex workers must rely on themselves or each other for support in ending violence as many campaigns to end violence against women ignore the needs of sex workers.\n\nUN Women supports the decriminalization of sex work in order to protect sex-workers from violence and abuse and encourages the criminalization of forms of violence, coercion and exploitation in sex work. Currently, however, the United States of America requires that all countries it gives aid to for AIDS/HIV+ prevention and relief agree to an \"anti-prostitution pledge\" that dictates that the country receiving aid must adopt policy that treats sex work and prostitution the same as sex trafficking. This policy has resulted in inadequate attention being paid to the health needs of prostitutes and limits the ability of the government to address the specific needs that sex workers have. Furthermore, in the United States, many states have mandatory minimum sentencing laws that require judges to give anyone convicted of prostitution a mandatory minimum prison sentence. This can, in turn, make it less likely that prostitutes take legal action against the perpetrators of violence against them because doing so could be risking jail time. One possible policy option that the Netherlands has done would be to designate specific places for sex workers and clients to meet up and arrange and engage in sexual activities. This would provide a safe and secure place for sexual services to be sold without having to remain in private which can be a risk factor for violence against prostitutes. Some organizations have even suggested forming support groups composed of sex workers in the area as a way to give sex workers the support they often lack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34599565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34599565", "title": "Vlachs in the history of Croatia", "text": "Vlachs in the history of Croatia\n\nThe term Vlachs () was initially used in medieval Croatian and Venetian history for a Romance-speaking pastoralist community, called \"Vlachs\" and \"Morlachs\", inhabiting the mountains and lands of the Croatian Kingdom and the Republic of Venice (Venetian Dalmatia) from the early 14th century. By the end of the 15th century they were highly assimilated with the Slavs and lost their language or were at least bilingual, while some communities managed to preserve and continue to speak their language (Istro-Romanians).\n\nLater in the 16th and 17th century with the Ottoman conquest and mass migrations, the term was primarily used for a socio-cultural and professional segment of the population rather than to an ethnicity, and referred to the mostly Slavic-speaking emigrants and refugees from Ottoman-held territories to the Habsburg Empire (such as Croatia) and Republic of Venice (Dalmatia), mostly of Eastern Orthodox faith, lesser Catholic. With the nation-building in the 19th century this population played a significant part in the national ideologies in Croatia and Serbia, and according to religious confession espoused either Serb (a majority) or Croat ethnicity.\n\nIn Croatia today, \"Vlachs\" is a recognized national minority (along with 22 other ethnic groups), with 29 individuals declared as Vlachs in the 2011 Croatian census, making them the smallest recognized minority in Croatia. Other Eastern Romance-speaking ethnic groups, that were also traditionally referred to as Vlachs in Croatia, now identify by their respective ethnic names – namely Romanians, Aromanians and Istro-Romanians (which are native to modern Croatia's Istria County).\n\nThe meaning of the term \"Vlach\" within the territory of present-day Croatia (like Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia) differed over time and had multiple meanings. In the Middle Ages it was primarily an exonym that referred to Romance-speaking pastoralist communities in the mountains, or rarely other Romance-speaking people like Italians. Due to their specific lifestyle, the term acquired a social-professional (shepherds) connotation. In the 13th and 14th centuries the shepherds of the Balkans were called Vlachs (\"Vlasi\"), including Slavic-speakers. Initially it was used for shepherds and transporters in the hinterland regardless of ethnicity and religion (though often Romance-speaking), strangers and newcomers as opposed to natives (in Istria, for speakers with Shtokavian traits), for hinterlanders by Dalmatian island inhabitants, for rugged villagers by the townspeople, and later an Orthodox Christian (with time mostly identified with Serbs). From the 16th century, with the Ottoman conquest and mass migrations of Slavic-speaking people, the term \"Vlach\" was primarily used for a socio-cultural and professional segment of the population, rather than to an ethnicity.\n\nThe Vlachs were distinguished by their semi-nomadic pastoral way of life as economically transhumant shepherds, mainly of sheep, goats and horses. Such a lifestyle allowed specific socio-cultural traits, like learning about the area, orientation during multi-day movement, organization and wartime skills, which was recognized and used already by the Late Medieval nobility and kings. They lived in extended families (as per the Western Balkan type), and were organised into local communities (\"knežine\"), and were bearers of a strongly patriarchal culture associated with the Dinaric Alps. Among characteristic cultural traits were wearing dark cloths, use of the \"gusle\" musical instrument (that accompanied epic singing), Ojkanje singing, Neo-Shtokavian \"Herzegovinian\" idioms and newcomer status.\n\nWhile the Slavic communities managed to form national identities founding regional provinces and kingdoms, Romance-speaking Vlachs didn't manage to form a national identity and were prone to assimilation. However, even if they were prone to national, linguistical and cultural assimilation with the Slavs, they did contribute to their respective communities. The problems the Vlachs faced with the creation of the national identity did not differ very much from what other rural communities face. Rural people comprised the majority of the population in the Middle Ages, and the centuries of war, conquest, regional boundaries, migrations, religious conversions, cultural blending and socio-economic problems affected the belonging of a population to a specific South Slavic national group. The regions of Lika (which mostly involved the Croatian Military Frontier) and Dalmatia were the border area between Habsburg, Ottoman and Venetian empires, a place of mass migrations and mixing of communities.\n\nIn the area, the confessional, socio-cultural and geo-regional characteristics had a crucial impact on the creation of an ethnic identity. The equalization between religious confession and ethnicity began in the middle of the 16th century when the Serbian Orthodox Church (Patriarchate of Peć), which had a significant religious and political influence on Serbs, started since 1557 to identify Orthodoxy with Serbdom. Gradually in the 17th century, as Croatian culture was preserved by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Senj-Modruš in Croatia, and the Franciscan Province of Bosna Srebrena in Ottoman Bosnia, the Roman Catholicism was identified with the Croatian national name. The socio-cultural difference was a lifestyle distinction between the natives (Catholic, peasant, smaller families) and the newer migrants (Orthodox, pastoralist, larger families) from Ottoman and Venetian territory who were referred to as Vlachs in the social sense, and their \"Vlach\" identity was mainly in the context of claiming the traditional legal rights and privileges of their social class by the state.\n\nThe Vlachs mentioned in medieval documents up until the 16th century, before the Ottoman invasion and migrations, were the progeny of Romanized Illyrians and Thraco-Romans, other pre-Slavic Romance-speaking people, and after arrival in the 6th-8th centuries also of Slavic people. Some Romance-speaking groups were autochthonous in Croatia and assimilated with Slavs, some were assimilated but preserved their identity and name, while some other groups migrated from Herzegovina to Dalmatia in very late 14th century.\n\nWith the arrival of Slavs, Vlachs began to assimilate with them, and being exposed to the Slavic language they gradually began to adopt it as their own. Raymond D'Aguilers and William of Tyre during the passage of the Crusaders in the 11th century pointed at the difference between the people who live in hilly hinterland, speak Slavic and deal with grooming of the cattle, from those in the coast who still speak Latin language (probably extinct Dalmatian language) and have different customs. In documents from Lika (1433), Cetina (1436), and Zrmanja (1486–87), a century after their first mention in Croatian historical documents, the Vlachs had mostly non-Christian, traditional South Slavic names and surnames. On that note, the Vlachs mostly differed from the Croats who usually had Christian names. The Vlachs were called as \"Vlasi na Hrvateh\", \"good Vlachs\" (dobri Vlasi), \"good men from katuns\" (dobri muži katunari), or \"royal Vlachs\" (Olahi domini nostri regis, Wolachi banatus regni Croatie).\n\nHowever, despite this cross-pollination of language some groups of Vlachs may have remained distinct from the Slavs; historical sources from the 14th-15th century differ Slavs and Vlachs in the area of Kotor, Dubrovnik, Bosnia and Croatia (\"Slavi et Vlachy\", \"Vlachy et Bosgniani\", \"Serbi et Vlachi\"). In 1345, in Cetina \"Croati et Olachy\" are differed, while in a 1436 document, Catholic Vlachs of the county of Cetina (around the town of Sinj) were represented as distinct from both the Croats and the Serbs inhabiting the county. In 1450, in the area of Šibenik were differed \"Morlachi ac Hervati\". In a book by Ragusan historian Ludovik Crijević (1459-1527), \"Writings on the Present Age\", Vlachs (\"Valachos\") were distinguished from other people, and were mentioned as \"nomadic Illyrians who in the common language are called Vlachs\" and there is also the mention of the present-day surname Kožul/lj in \"Cossuli, a kind of Illyrian people considered Romans\". During the Orthodox migration to Žumberak in 1538, general commander Nikola Jurišić mentioned the Vlachs who \"in our parts are called as Old Romans\" separate from the Serbs and Rascians.\n\nDuring the 14th century, Vlach settlements existed throughout much of today's Croatia, but centres of population were focused around the Velebit and Dinara mountains and along the Krka and Cetina rivers. The Vlachs were divided into \"common\" Vlachs from Cetina and \"royal\" Vlachs from Lika. The Vlach population lived on the territory of noble families; of Nelipić (Cetina–Knin), Šubić (Pokrčje), Gusić (Pozrmanje), and Frankopan (Lika). Between 1400 and 1600 many Vlach families had settled Istria and island of Krk. The Frankopans settled Vlachs on the island of Krk (Dubašnica, Poljica) in the 15th century, and later around Učka. The Venetian colonization of Istria started not later than the early 1520s, and there were several cases when they returned to Dalmatia.\nThe Vlach people distinctively lived a nomadic life as shepherds and as traveling merchants on trading routes. They lived in villages, and hamlets called \"katun\" (ro. \"\"), smaller village-like places in the mountains and lower areas where they dwelled during the transhumant period. The 1436 document (Vlach law) confirmed in Klis by ban Ivan Frankopan beside clear ethnic diversity in the Cetina county showed that there were two social groups of Vlachs, those with villages who pay tax, and those without villages who are nomads and thus obligated to serve in the army as horsemen.\n\nAccording to Stjepan Pavičić (1931), the Romance Vlachs or Morlachs of the Dinara and Velebit lost their Romance language by the 14th or 15th century, or were at least bilingual at that time. The so-called Istro-Romanians, called by themselves \"Rumeri\" or \"Vlasi\", continued to speak their language on the island of Krk (extinct in the 20th century; recorded Pater Noster) and villages around the Čepić lake in Istria, while other communities in the mountains (Ćićarija) above the lake preserved the Shtokavian-Chakavian dialect with Ikavian accent from the southern Velebit and area of Zadar. The documents about Vlachs from Cetina county indicate Chakavian dialect with Ikavian accent.\n\nThe evidence of their Romance language are toponyms throughout the Dinaric Alps, and many anthroponyms (surnames) with specific Romance or Slavic word roots, and Romanian ending suffixes found among South Slavic people. The \"Vlach\" or \"Romanian\" traditional system of counting sheep in pairs \"do\" (two), \"pato\" (four), \"šasto\" (six), \"šopći\" (eight), \"zeći\" (ten) has been preserved in Velebit, Bukovica, Dalmatian Zagora, and Ćićarija until today.\n\nSocioculturally, there were two main ethnic divisions in the Croatian Military Frontier, those of the \"native\" \"Croats\" and \"immigrant\" \"Vlachs\". The Croats were Catholics, Habsburg subjects, made up of an agrarian population concentrated around frontier towns, of nuclear families, and linguistically predominantly Chakavian-speaking (or Chakavian-based speech). The Vlachs were holders of patriarchal-pastoral culture of the Dinaric, refugees from Ottoman and Venetian territories, of extended families, and linguistically Neo-Shtokavian-speaking.\n\nThe Vlachs were predominantly Orthodox Christian by religion, and also, the traditional social grouping of Vlachs was the Orthodox group itself. The Orthodox Vlachs spoke the Eastern Herzegovinian dialect while the Catholic Vlachs (the Bunjevci), spoke the Western Herzegovinian dialect. The Vlachs were also called on some occasions as \"Rasciani sive Serviani\" and \"Valachicae seu Rascianae gentis\", which was an exonym for the Serbs or Orthodox Christians. In the 1500–1800 period in Europe, the religious difference was one of the main cultural differences in ethnic groups. The state triangle at Lika in what is today Croatia was an area in which Roman Catholicism, Serbian Orthodoxy, and Islam met. Ethno-confessionally, the Orthodox Vlachs were part of the Serb identity since the mid 16th-century.\n\nCroatian historian Marko Šarić notes that the Lika-Krbava Vlachs can be seen as one of the sub-ethnies of the pre-modern Serb ethnic group. The Serb–Rascian attributes points on the attachment of Vlach Orthodox communities to the wider pre-modern Serb ethnocultural corps. However, although in some documents from the 16th and 17th centuries the Habsburg Imperial Court used the terms \"Vlachs, Rascians and Serbs\" as synonyms (indicating their Orthodox confession), the socio-cultural and ethnological evidence on the ground doesn't support such a simplified interpretation of the ethnic identity of Orthodox Vlachs. \n\nJ. W. Valvasor in his 1689 work which described the Carniolan–Croatian area of the Croatian Military Frontier and the Maritime Frontier, differed between Croats and Vlachs (whom he also called Uskoks and Morlachs), and called the latter's Shtokavian language \"Vlach\" (\"Walachische\") which he said was close to the \"Dalmatian\" (\"Dalmatische\") and \"Slavonian\" (\"Schlavonische\") languages. In Venetian usage for Dalmatia, the Slavic language was called Illyrian (\"Illirico\") or Serbian (\"Serviano\"). At the time of the Morean War (1684–89) Vlachs fled Ottoman-held Lika and temporarily settled as 1,700 families in Venetian Dalmatia, and 530 families in the Karlovac Generalate (Croatian Military Frontier). Since 1690, they, and some Vlach families from Dalmatia and Bosnia, began to return to their original provinces in Lika and Krbava. With them in 1694 arrived Serbian Orthodox metropolitan who established the Lika–Krbava (\"Ličko-Krbavska\") and Zrinopolje (\"Zrinopoljska\") eparchies.\n\nThe data on Lika and Krbava in 1712–14 censuses was studied by Croatian historian Marko Šarić who also divided pre-modern ethnic groups (\"etnije\") into Orthodox Vlachs (Serbian Orthodox), Catholic Vlachs (Bunjevci), Carniolans (Kranjci), Croats and Turks (Catholicizated former Muslims), based on Zagreb bishop Martin Brajković's earlier groupings. The statistical categories were minimal to socio-religious and military and economic aspects of the population, but including a list of 713 surnames it is an important source for onomastics, and to comprehend the ethnic identity of the population. \n\nThe majority of nobility in Lika consisted of Catholic Croats, while the vast majority of population were Vlachs (Serbian Orthodox). The Serbian Orthodox numbered 71% of the total population in Lika and Krbava, while Catholics overall 29%; the Bunjevci were the second at 16% and Croats were only 4%. The future studies have found that at the beginning of the 20th century only 60–64% of the surnames were preserved, with mostly Carniolian surnames vanished. The \"Turk\" surnames indicate an Islamic-\"Oriental\" influence, and most are Muslim-patronymic. The \"Carniolian\" surnames indicate a Kajkavian cultural and regional sphere, and are characteristically mostly occupational, many linguistically Germanic, some permeate with other dialects, and they have the smallest share of the ending suffix \"-ić\". The \"Croat\" show an arhaic age, many are mentioned in the Middle Age and the 15th and 16th centuries, before the Council of Trent, while some are from the second half of 16th and 17th centuries of Dinaric origin.\n\nThe anthroponymic structure in surnames of Orthodox Vlachs and Catholic Bunjevci was very similar, while the pastoral (Dinaric) culture, Neo-Shtokavian speech, and social and military role in the frontiers created uniform anthroponymic forms. The religious confession wasn't crucial to the pattern of surnames as patronymic surnames of Catholic or Orthodox character were also found in the opposite confessional group of the mentioned. A very large number of surnames were derived from Slavic word roots \"-vuk\", \"-rad\", \"-mil\", and it was also noted that matronymic surnames and nicknames were more present in the Vlach group than in the others. Some 20% were of \"Old Balkanic\" origin, of Romance root words (and Slavic suffixes \"-ić\", \"-ac\", \"-an\", \"-en\", \"-elj\") or Romance suffixes (\"-ul\", \"-as\", \"-at\", \"-ta\", \"-er\", \"-et\", \"-man\"), and also some found derived from Illyrian–Thracian root words or with Albanian suffixes (\"-aj\" and \"-eza\").\n\nPope Gregory IX in letter from 14 November 1234 for king Béla IV of Hungary noted that the \"Vlachs, although by name are considered Christians... have rituals which are hostile to the Christian name\". Pope Gregory XI in letter from 1372 for Franciscans in Bosnia ordered to convert Vlachs who live in tents and pastures (\"Wlachorum... quorum nonnulli in pascuis et tentoriis habitant\"), also relating to the activity of the Bosnian Church (also see Stećaks). Scholar Bogumil Hrabak emphasized that there's no need to insist on the religious affiliation of the pastoralist communities in the Balkan, especially the Vlachs. Living in closed transhumance communities they changed religious affiliation according to the regional religion (Roman Catholic or Orthodox) where lived for a prolonged time, and if weren't followed by the specific priest. Their ignorance and lack of Christian Church commitment are seen in the case of Vlachs who were settled in Žumberak (the 1530s), who begged commander Johann Katzianer to be Christianized. Orthodoxy as such was also more akin to them rather than feudal Roman Catholicism which dogma did not allow to embrace as many pagan beliefs like in Orthodox Church.\n\nReference to the existence of Vlachs or Romance-speaking people in Medieval Croatia dates from the early Middle Age; One of the first mention of Vlachs is the 1071 charter by the Croatian King Krešimir IV about the Rab diocese, when on the island of Pag was mentioned the village \"Wlasici\" (today village Vlašići), but is considered a forgery from the late 12th and early 13th century. In the \"Libellus Policorion\", church cartular dated in the mid 14th century that includes transcriptions of older collected documents about estates of now extinct Benedictine Abbey of St John the Evangelist in Biograd and Saints Cosmas and Damian on the island of Pašman, is mentioned one \"Kutun\" (Katun) district. Vlachs can be traced by personal names and peculiarly by ending suffix \"-ul\" in Dalmatian cities documents since the 10th century.\nThe first collective reference of Vlachs, or Morlachs in some Latin and mostly Venetian and Italian documents, dates from the early 1320s (almost 900 years after Slavic migration); in 1321, a local priest from Dobrinj on the island of Krk granted land to the church (\"to the lands of Kneže, which are called Vlachian\"), while in 1322 they and people of Poljica were allied to Ban of Croatia, Mladen Šubić, who fought against Croatian pretenders at the Battle of Bliska in the hinterland of Trogir. In 1344 are mentioned \"Morolacorum\" in lands around Knin and Krbava, within the conflict of counts from Kurjaković and Nelipić families, and that they can shelter their livestock on islands of Rab, Hvar, and Brač. In 1345 are mentioned in the charter by king Louis I of Hungary to Nelipićs, to whom was confiscated Knin in exchange for Sinj and other forst in Cetina county with all \"with their inhabitants, Croats and Vlachs\".\n\nIn 1352, in the agreement in which Zadar sold salt to the Republic of Venice, in which Zadar retained part of the salt that \"Morlachi\" and others exported by land. In the 1357 charter of Šibenik was imposed a provision that Vlachs mustn't use without authority the city lands for pasture. In 1362, the \"Morlachorum\", unauthorized, settled on lands of Trogir but were allowed to use it for pasture for a few months.\n\nIn 1383, Vlachs around Šibenik, which partially belonged to the Queen Elizabeth and noble Ivan III Nelipić, were causing problems, and citizens wrote to the Queen asking for help. The Queen warned the Ban of Croatia, Emerik, and ordered him to send Vlachs away from the city lands and take fines from them, from which a part to be given to the citizens. In 1387, when nobles from the family Budislavić from Krbava confirmed with a charter the privileges of the citizens of city Pag, was determined that Vlachs musn't use the city lands for pasture. In the Statute of Senj dating to 1388, the Frankopans mentioned \"Morowlachi\" and defined the amount of time they had for pasture around river Gacka when they descended from the mountains.\n\nSome scholars consider that to the alleged Vlachian migration in the 14th century to the Dalmatian Zagora preceded black death which enabled permanent Vlachian colonization and pasture of animals on desolated land. This migration would be followed with the sudden appearance of stećak tombstones in the Cetina county, showing the cultural specificity of the newly arrived communities. The particular appearance of the stećaks indicate separate socio-cultural identity, to whom afterlife was important, as well socio-professional prosperity for such valuable burials. According to others, such a sudden appearance of the Vlachian name in the historical documents is due to the official introduction of specific rights in the notary books for taxation and trade only from 1307.\n\nIn the 1376 and 1454 documents by Republic of Dubrovnik about trade with Bosnian lands are distinguished \"Vlachi et Bosgnani\". In Bosnian documents are first mentioned in c. 1234 by ban Matej Ninoslav, and from 1361 up to 1417 were mentioned royal Vlachs of Bosnian bans and kings.\n\nOn 13 April 1411, Bosnian Duke Sandalj Hranić sold the Croatian town Ostrovica, which was a gift from King Ladislaus of Naples to the Republic of Venice. A year later on 10 April 1412, the \"Murlachos\" (probably in service of King Sigismund) captured the Ostrovica Fortress from Venice. In August 1417, Venetian authorities were concerned with the \"Morlachs and other Slavs\" from the hinterland, that were a threat to security in Šibenik.\n\nDuring the 15th century, the Vlach population in Croatia expanded so significantly that they were sometimes mentioned as a distinct entity along the Croatians. In 1412 King Sigismund bestowed the Sinj county and Travnik fortress to Ivan III Nelipić, and mentioned that Croats and Vlachs were at his disposal (\"cum universis Croatis et Vlahis\"). In the so-called Pašman Breviary (1431) were distinguished Croats and Vlachs enslaved by the Turks. On 6 August 1432, the Ragusians reported to King Sigismund that the Turks had invaded into the Croatian lands, and captured many Croats and Vlachs. In 1432, on the order of King Sigismund, Morlachs were required for military service and to gather at the Ban's camp where they were joined by the \"whole of the Croatian Kingdom and co-existing forces of the Vlachs\". In 1433 was released document which defined relation between \"good Vlachs\" and Church of St. Ivan in Gori in Lika, mentioning Vlach judicial court, and that \"not one Vlach among us brother Croat Vlachs will carry out any evil on the said property\".\n\nThe sale of Dalmatia on 7 April 1433 by King Sigismund to the Republic of Venice earned him the enmity of Ivan Frankopan. With death of last Nelipić in 1435, Frankopan convinced the Vlachs to side with him by promising them the resurrection of old \"Vlach Laws\" (previously given by Nelipić's) on 18 March 1436. These laws dated from the middle of the 14th century and included many personal rights for the Vlachs. According to the \"Vlach Laws\", Vlachs that chose to follow Frankopan received various privileges, such as serving under Vlach commanders instead of Croatian ones, crimes committed in the town of Sinj would be judged by a Vlach magistrate rather than a Croatian one, the Croatian prince of Cetina would not be permitted to appoint a voivode (prince) over them and Croats were restricted to having only one Vlach as their shepherd. Encouraged by these promises, the Vlachs attacked nearby littoral towns under Venetian control, but in 1436 on behalf of king Sigismund, Ban of Croatia Matko Talovac waged war against Ivan Frankopan who didn't manage to survive.\n\nAs they previously supported Frankopan, Vlachs from Cetina now were persecuted, resulting on 2 July 1436 informing the Vlachs of a peace treaty between Talovac and Venice that had been signed that forbade further attacks on Venetian towns, but it wasn't always respected. The persecution was also in part due to the new conflict between Talovac and herzog Stjepan Vukčić Kosača who at the time had capital in Imotski. Kosača managed to conquer in 1440 Omiš and Poljica, but lost them to Venice in 1444. From this time are dated stećaks from Bisko. In 1444 conflicts between Talovac and Vlachs again re-emerge, with estates of Vlachs Mikul Dudanović, Radoj Gerdanić and their siblings being given to the widow of Šimun Keglević. This resulted with the migration of Morlachs from the Talovac estates in Cetina to Poljica under Venice control in 1446.\n\nThe Vlachs of Lika, who were predominantly Catholic, were ruled by Croatian princes and bishops, while Vlachs who lived along the Cetina river were more autonomous and were governed by Vlach princes, dukes and judges. They also paid more favorable taxes and were free from paying for pasture for their cattle. However, they were not completely free citizens and faced restrictions such as prohibitions on becoming court witnesses, jurors and officers. Their rights were contained in the \"Vlach Paper\" from 1476, which itself is an extension of the \"Vlach Laws\" from 1436. Both of these were written in Cyrillic and kept in the Franciscan monastery in Trsat. Also, during this period, large numbers of Vlachs were traded or used as gifts between Croatian nobles, and local churches.\n\nIn the summer of 1448 during warfare around Šibenik city's authority complained in Venice about Morlachs and Croats who subordinate with Ban of Croatia. In 1463, in the župa of Vrlika were mentioned Vlachs from the \"de genere Thwlich\" (Tulić), gifted by the King Matthias Corvinus to the local Croatian nobel Ivan Čubretić. In 1481, by the king some Vlachs were settled in Lika. In 1486-87 were mentioned at the Zrmanja river region, around the Kegalj-grad, because of land disputes with nobles Keglević. In the late 1480s are mentioned in Dubašica and Poljica on island Krk, \"corvati et morlacchi\". In 1504 document from Krk mentions \"...every Christian, nobleman and peasnt, Vlach or Croat\". In the 1504 document about war tributes, besides from Vrlika, were also mentioned Vlachs from Knin (\"Tinninienses\"), Obrovac (\"Obrowacz\") and Nutjak.\n\nAnother group or Vlachian term besides Morlachs was \"Ćići\" (ger. Tschitsche). In the early 15th century was mentioned as a surname in Istria, while in 1463 by priest Fraščić as a group who under Ivan Frankopan plunder Istrian territory beneath mountain Učka. In 1499, the Carinthian parish priest Jakob Urnest mentioned a territory \"Czyschnlandt\" between Croatian and Bosnian kingdoms, which some consider to be the Cetina river region in southern Croatia. In penal records of Trieste from the year 1500 contain an inscription of an accused who, when asked of his home country, replied \"Ciccio da Segna\" (Senj), while another man declared himself as \"Ciccio da S. Michele di Leme (Lim valley in Istria)\". In 1523 and 1527, in the estate of Lupoglav were settled \"Tschizen aus Krabatten\". In 1528, \"Tschitschen\" were mentioned in regard of possible settling in Modruš and other lands as a resistance against \"Martolosi\". In 1530, they were prohibited to purchase grain in Novo Mesto and Metlika in Lower Carniola. In 1539, royal commissioner Erasmo von Thurn submitted a request by Ćići to King Ferdinand if they could be given some deserted land on karst and Istria. Also, previously in 1530 general commander Nikola Jurišić mentioned Vlachs who were commonly called Ćići (\"Valachi, quos vulgo Zytschn vocant\"), while Slovenian diplomat Benedikt Kuripešič in his travel through Bosnia mentioned his use of \"Zitzen\" and \"Zigen\" as exonym, along Vlach and Martolosi, for the Serbs and Orthodox immigrants in Bosnia.\n\nVlach migrations to the Austrian Empire from the Ottoman Empire, and vice versa, were generally caused by the loss of financial status or privileges of Vlach laws, rather than from any form of ethnic or religious persecution. Usually the migrations were caused or performed in periods after turbulent events, like Battle of Mohács (1526), the conquest of Dalmatia (1522), Lika and Krbava (1527-28), and subsequent battles. Many Vlachs served in Ottoman armies during their conquests. As part of the military, they often served either as light cavalry or infantrymen, or irregular soldiers (\"martolosi\"). However, since the movements of large Ottoman armies towards Inner Austria were rarely routed through Croatia-Slavonia, and military actions were focused on the vicinity of Jajce and Bihać, the role of the Uskok-Vlachs spying on the Ottomans was particularly important.\n\nThe Serb-Vlach colonization of Žumberak started between 1530 and 1538, at the same time when in Ottoman-conquered lands Vlachs laws were cancelled until 1550, partially or altogether, causing migration because of social and financial status. In June 1531, around 1,000 Vlachs, advised by Ivan Katzianer, settled in Kostel and Polajna, along the Kupa River near Žumberak, of which 700 were fit for military service. King Ferdinand I in September 1538 responded to general commander Nikola Jurišić, who informed him about some Servian or Rascian captains and dukes who are willing to come with their people to serve in military service, that they were given privileges. In October of the same year Jurišić informed the King that the Ban Petar Keglević and other nobles came from Ottoman-conquered territory with many \"Sirfen\" (Serbs). In the same letter, Jurišić informed the king about the Vlachs who \"in our (Croatian) parts are called as Old Romans\" (\"alt Römer genennt\"), and that came with others from Turkish parts, to be given the same promises and privileges which were given to the Serbs. In November, Ferdinand wrote to Keglević about \"captains and dukes of the Rasians, or the Serbs, or the Vlachs, who are commonly called the Serbs\" (\"capitanei et wayuode Rasciani sive Serviani atque Valachi, quos vulgo zrbschy vocant\"). Serbs from Cetina part of the 1538 migration were taken care of by captain of Bihać Erazmo Thurn and his men, Croatian Ban Petar Keglević, and counts of Slunj, Zrinski, and Blagaj. Military service becomes the main occupation of the new population.\nIn 1530, Vlachs from Lika and Srb, Unac and Glamoč came under Turkish rule. Catholic Vlachs in Prilišće and Rosopajnik settled in 1538, while in 1544 came under the protection of Nikola Šubić Zrinski. Around 1530, in lands of Stjepan Frankopan from Ozalj, in Otok and Hreljin, were settled some Vlachs who in 1540 were mentioned for rewarding by King Ferdinand because of successful spying on Turks. With the growing number of the Ottoman Vlachs passing over the Christian side, the Vlach leader from Glamoč, Ladislav Stipković, traveled to Ljubljana to offer his service, and those of his forces, to the Austrians. In a later battle, the combined forces of the army from Bihać and the Vlachs defeated an Ottoman army at Bihać.\n\nIn 1551, general Ivan Lenković reported to Ferdinand how Turks settled thousands of Morlachs and Vlachs around Srb, and \"Kosovo field\" near the town of Knin. In 1560, the towns of Lišnica and Novigrad along with large parts of the Una valley, Bušević and the Krupa river, were captuered, and settled with newcomers from Bosnia. In 1560, some Vlachs were settled around Ivanić-Grad, Križevci and Koprivnica.\n\nOrthodox Vlachs were also directed to settle in Lika when Arnaud Memi-Bey became commander of Lika Sanjak. The Beylerbey of Bosnia, Hasan-Pasha Predojević, himself an Islamized Orthodox \"Vlach\" from Herzegovina, received the support of these Orthodox Vlachs and many served in his armies. At Predojević's order, Vlachs, as well as some Turkish nobility, settled near the towns Brekovica, Ripča, Ostrvice and Vrla Draga near Sokolac in such numbers that they formed a significant population of this region. In 1579, Vlachs in Turkish service wanted to transfer the towns of Cazin and Ostrožac to \"Christian\", that is Croatian, ownership. In 1599, many Vlachs emigrated from Korenica and Bihać area to Gomirje.\n\nIn 1585, the general from Karlovac, Josip Turn, proposed Vlach settlement in Moravice, and later in 1597 general Lenković led Vlachs from Lika to Gorski Kotar and lands owned by Frankopan family. In Frankopan estate arrived yet again in 1609, and 1632. In 1605, General Vid Kisel brought Vlachs from Ostrožac to Ogulin and Bosiljevac, and some time later, Vlachs from Uzorac and Turje settled in Karlovac. In 1609, two burgs, Brlog and Gusić-Grad, were given by Senj captain and Croatian nobleman Sigismund Gusić to accommodate newly arrived Vlachs in exchange for their military service. In 1639, Nikola Frankopan of Tržac accused Senj captain Albrecht Herberstein of settling Catholic Vlachs (Bunjevci) at his deserted estates in Jablanac, Starigrad, and Orthodox Vlachs in Brinje and Brlog, without his permission. The same happened with Zrinski in Ledenice. Under Ottomans during the bishopric of Marcijan Lišnjić (1661–86) around Blato and Broćno/Brotnjo in Herzegovina were mentioned \"Croatian Vlachs\".\nAfter the Ottomans were defeated in Vienna in 1683, the Vlachs scattered throughout the Croatian Military Frontier. Concerned about this, Turks decided to settle them on the south side of the Una river, but were unable to execute this plan. During this period, Ottomans were vulnerable to Vlach raids from Banija and Karlovac. Vlachs, under the protection of the Ban of Croatia Miklós Erdődy and General Ivan Josip Herberstein, were also settled around Petrinja, Glina, Skradin, Vojnić, Krstinje and Budačko. After the magnate conspiracy (1670), executions and confiscation of Frankopan and Zrinski families estate, Vlachs were settled under permission of Frontier generals. The abandoned village of Plaški was settled in 1666, while 120 families settled below the Budački fortress, in 200 houses between Skrad, Slunj, Veljun, and Blagaj in 1686. With the liberation of Lika and Krbava in 1689, Vlachs from Kupres, Grahovo and Plavno near Knin returned to the region. Thirty individuals from Plaški were transferred to Jasenice in 1705, and 158 families were settled in the vicinity of Budački in 1711. In 1791, after the Treaty of Sistova, Orthodox Vlachs settled in new territory from Maljevac to Srb and the triangle border of Lika regiment, noted as the last of such migrations.\n\nIn the Ban's Croatia Vlachs mostly settled in the 17th century. In 1680 around 120 families were settled. In 1688 Vlachs settled in Bović, Kirin, and Gradišće. In 1718, noblewoman Marija Magdalena Drašković settled some Vlachs on her estate between the Tršca stream and village of Utinja. In 1750, an Orthodox priest and witnesses confirmed Vlachs didn't exist before around Kupa, Steničnjak, Petrova Gora and Slavsko Polje, but only around Hrvatska Kostajnica. They numbered around 4000 people.\n\nIn Slavonia, Friedrich Wilhelm von Taube wrote in the 18th century that there many Vlachs mixed with \"Illyrians\" (Croats and Serbs) and that have adopted their \"Illyrian\" (Slavic) language.\n\nIn Dalmatia the Morlachs were immigrants who settled in the Venetian-Ottoman border, in the hinterlands of coastal cities, and entered Venetian military service, in the late 16th and early 17th century. In 1593, provveditore generale Cristoforo Valier mentioned three nations constituting the Uskoks, the \"natives of Senj, Croatians, and Morlachs from the Turkish parts\". At the time of the Cretan War (1645–69) and Morean War (1684-99), a large number of \"Morlachs\" settled inland of the Dalmatian towns, and Ravni Kotari of Zadar. According to Venetian censuses, in 1761, Orthodox Christians were 31,211 of the total population numbering 220,287; in 1771, 38,652 out of 223,765; in 1781, 51,996 out of 236,997.\n\nThe settlement of the Vlachs in Croatia was beneficial to the Austrian Empire as the Emperor was reluctant to return the Military Frontier to Croatia. Further settlement of Vlachs was encouraged by the Austrian Government, but this antagonised the Sabor (the Croatian Parliament) and resulted in the passing of various laws, on 21 February 1629, guaranteeing certain privileges to the Vlachs. For example, any Vlach willingly becoming a subject of the Kingdom of Croatia was exempt from becoming a serf, rendering Vlachs almost equal with native Croatians. The laws enacted by the Emperor of the Austrian Empire and Sabor are collectively known as \"Statuta Valachorum\". The exemption of the Vlachs from serfdom can be compared to the same exemption for native Croats, which was not applied until 1848 during the rule of Josip Jelačić. To ensure cooperation from the Vlachs, Austrian generals conducted a propaganda campaign focusing on Vlach serfdom under Croatian rule. This activity prevented the Croatian envoy to the Austrian court, Benedikt Vinković, who was there to consult on the \"Vlach question\", from pursuing a union of the Vlach-settled Military Frontier with Croatia.\n\nMany scholars consider that the \"Vlachs\" since the 16th century referred to pastoralists (social status) being a common name for Serbs and other Slavs in the Ottoman Empire and later. Tihomir Đorđević considered that the Vlach didn't only refer to genuine Vlachs or Serbs but also to cattle breeders in general. Bogumil Hrabak emphasized that not all cattle breeders and shepherds in the Balkans were called Vlachs, an example being the Arbanasi. Another view, as held by Croatian-Albanian Zef Mirdita, is that there was a clear distinction between the Serb ethnic community and the Vlachs as seen in Serbian medieval documents mentioning \"Vlachs\" separately from \"Serbs\", and for example the prohibition of intermarriage between Serbs and Vlachs by Emperor Stefan Dušan (in \"Dušan's Code\"). However, as noted by John V. A. Fine Jr., \"a more detailed examination of the code shows that it was in fact occupational\". Mirdita and other scholars noted that the Vlachs were always mentioned as an ethnic group, and were in the process of Slavicization which wasn't completed in the 15th century.\n\nThe exact ethnic identity of the Frontier Vlachs (and ancestors of the Krajina Serbs) is complex and until now unexplained without at least some national ideologies and mythologization which emerged in the 19th century. Hrabak emphasized that South Slavic scholarship and Serbian nationalists tried to neglect or minimize (making it a social term) the contribution of Vlachs in their ethnogenesis and history because the old-Balkan element insulted their idea of \"pure\" Slavs. Jaroslav Šidak noted that due to receiving derogatory connotation, in \"Historija naroda Jugoslavije II\" (1959) the issue was tried to be avoided by writing lowercase \"vlachs\". Some international scholars like Noel Malcolm consider that Bosnian Serbs have a large element of non-Slavic ancestry (mainly Vlachs), and national concepts of Croats and Serbs are 19th- and 20th century constructs.\n\nSome older sources like, Belsazar Hacquet (1739–1815) noted that although some call the Vlachs as Serbs, the Croats are their actual descendants. In the work \"About the Vlachs\" from 1806, Metropolitan Stevan Stratimirović stated that Roman Catholics from Croatia and Slavonia scornfully used the name Vlach for \"the Slovenians (Slavs) and Serbs, who are of our, Eastern confession (Orthodoxy)\", and that \"the Turks in Bosnia and Serbia also call every Bosnian or Serbian Christian a Vlach\". Scholars like Vuk Stefanović Karadžić, Ferdo Šišić, Vjekoslav Klaić, Petar Skok, vaguely argued according to the ideologies of the time, that the Vlachs lacked national consciousness, belonging to Serbs or Croats, that Orthodoxy made them Serbs, or that due to them being mainly Orthodox the Roman Catholic priests started to identify them with the Serbs/Rascians which eventually got adopted.\n\nThe dispersion of Orthodox Slavs (Vlachs and Serbs) in present-day territory of Croatia, who mostly inhabited the historical borderland Military Frontier (\"Krajina\"), were a cultural, linguistical, and political factor used by extreme ideologies from both Serbia and Croatia. Drago Roksandić and Marko Šarić noted that the modern South Slavic national revival and historiography since 19th century tried to see and interpret its own national history through present day situation, like an \"ethnocentric mirror that shows the present\". The picture they tried to give about the Vlachs was most commonly simplified, uncritical and acted constructed, resulting with historiographic disputes.\n\nCroatian nationalist historiography (including Ustashe propaganda) claim that the Orthodox settlers in the Military Frontier were not Serbs, but Romance Vlachs; that Serbs of Croatia are not Serbs. Extreme Croatian historiography tried to neglect Serb component, contribution or origin of Vlachs. Some Croatian scholars like Ivo Banac consider that Orthodox Slavicized Vlachs in time acquired Serb national consciousness through their church organization. Others like Mirko Valentić claim that the Vlachs were Serbianized only in the 19th century. The Vlach origin of the Roman Catholic Bunjevci because of well integration in the Croatian corpus was ignored.\n\nIn Serbian historiography all Dinaric/Shtokavian cultural attributes were without exception proclaimed as being Serb, and also often stressed the ethno-demographic discontinuity wanting to prove that the Croatian Military Frontier lost its original Croat population and received a new, ethnically Serb majority population, and also downplayed Croat and overemphasized the importance of the Serbs in the history of the Military Frontier. Serbian historiography strongly considered that the term Vlach indicated status and not ethnos, and that they didn't exist in later centuries as an ethnic group, yet were true Serbs. Sima Ćirković noted that the name was maintained due to different crafts, way of life and distinct form of social organization, until the differences lost their meaning, with Slavicization process lasting for centuries; he considered that Serbs absorbed many Vlachs and other ethnic groups. Many Serbian scholars, including foreign, claim that the settlers in the Military Frontier were Serbs or mainly Serbs.\n\nOrthodox Vlach groups whose migrations were not accompanied by an ecclesiastical infrastructure were Catholicised and assimilated. According to Marko Šarić the Serb identity was finalized among the Orthodox Vlachs in Lika and Krbava after the establishment of the Serbian Orthodox eparchies of Zrinopolje and Lika-Krbava in 1695, which would be later unified into the Eparchy of upper Karlovac. He noted that the Catholic Vlachs (i.e. Bunjevci) were integrated into the Croatian nation.\n\nIn recent decades, the extent in which Orthodox Slavs (Vlachs and Serbs) lived in previous centuries (Military Frontier, Srijem, Baranja etc.) by Serb separatists was seen as a borderline between Croatia and self-proclaimed autonomous regions within Croatian territory, the SAO Krajina, SAO Western Slavonia and SAO Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Syrmia, and eventual Republic of Serbian Krajina (1991-1995), during the Croatian international recognition and War in Croatia which lasted from 1991 until 1995.\n\nCroatian historian Drago Roksandić claimed in 1991, before the war escalated, that until today, the \"Vlach question\" (\"Vlaško pitanje\") had caused and still caused many disagreements between experts and non-experts in ex-Yugoslavian countries, as well as in the other Balkan countries with Vlach communities. The Vlach heritage has had a remarkable impact on modern Serbs, Croats and Bosnians.\n\nIn 1948, 1 person registered as \"Vlach\"; 1953 - 2, 1961 - 34, 1971 - 13, 1981 - 16, 1991 - 22, 2001–12, 2011 - 29.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33066677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33066677", "title": "Wa language", "text": "Wa language\n\nWa (Va) is the language of the Wa people of Burma and China. There are three distinct varieties, sometimes considered separate languages; their names in \"Ethnologue\" are Parauk, the majority and standard form; Vo (Zhenkang Wa, 40,000 speakers), and Awa (100,000 speakers), though all may be called \"Wa, Awa, Va, Vo\". David Bradley (1994) estimates there are total of 820,000 Wa speakers.\n\nGerard Diffloth refers to the Wa geographic region as the \"Wa corridor\", which lies between the Salween and Mekong Rivers. According to Diffloth, variants include South Wa, \"Bible Wa\", and Kawa (Chinese Wa).\n\nChristian Wa are more likely to support the use of Standard Wa, since their Bible is based on a standard version of Wa, which is in turn based on the variant spoken in Bang Wai, 150 miles north of Kengtung (Watkins 2002). Bang Wai is located in northern Shan State, Burma, close to the Chinese border where Cangyuan County is located.\n\nCertain dialects of Wa preserve a final -/s/. They include the variants spoken in Meung Yang and Ximeng County (such as a variety spoken in Zhongke 中课, Masan 马散, Ximeng County that was documented by Zhou & Yan (1984)) (Watkins 2002:8).\n\nDavid Bradley (1994) estimates that there is a total of about 500,000 Wa speakers in Burma.\n\nA small number of Wa speakers also reside in Taunggyi, Mandalay, and Yangon.\n\nThe PRC writing system for Wa is based on the Wa variant in Aishuai, Cangyuan County, Yunnan.\n\nDavid Bradley (1994) estimates that there are 322,000 Wa speakers in China. In China, the Wa people live in (Watkins 2002):\n\n\nA small number of Wa speakers also reside in Kunming and throughout various parts of Yunnan.\n\nThe three dialects of Wa (and their respective subdialects) according to Zhou, et al. (2004) are:\n\n\nJackson Sun (2018a) lists the Awa dialects and their alternate names as follows.\n\nThe Dai exonym for the Wa of Yongde, Zhenkang, and Nanla 南腊 is '. In Sipsongpanna, the Dai call them the ', ' (\"Raw Va\" 生佤), ' (\"Head-carrying Wa\" 拿头佤), ' (\"Religious Wa\" 信教佤). In Ximeng and Menglian counties, the Wa autonym is ', while in Cangyuan and Gengma counties it is \"\" (Zhou, et al. 2004:2).\n\nYan & Zhou (2012:138) list the following names for Wa in various counties.\n\nA language known as \"Bujiao\" 补角 (autonym: \"Puga\" 仆嘎) in Mengla County was mentioned in Yunnan (1960) The Bujiao were classified as ethnic Bulang, and had a population of 212 in 1960.\n\nThe \"Kela\" 克拉 (Dai exonym: Kala 卡拉; population: 393 people) live in District 3 三区 of Tengchong County 腾冲县, Yunnan (You 2013:359). The Kela used to speak a variety of Wa, but now speak only Chinese. The Kela also refer to themselves as the \"Wama\" 佤妈.\n\nWa have also migrated to Thailand in the past several decades, mainly from Burma. There are about 10,000 Wa speakers in Thailand. Wa villages can be found in (Watkins 2002:6):\n\n\nStandard Wa is a non-tonal language. However, tone has developed in some of the dialects. There is correspondence between tones in tonal dialects and tenseness in non-tonal dialects.\n\nIn Wa, there are 44 phonemes; 35 consonants and 9 vowels. All of these vowels can be tense or lax. Tenseness is a phonemic feature in syllables with unaspirated initials.\n\nThere are 15 diphthongs: \"iu, ɯi, ui, ia, ɤi, ua, ei, ou, oi~ɔi, ai, aɯ, au\" and 2 triphthongs: \"iau, uai\". The general syllabic structure of Wa is C(C)(V)V(V)(C). Only a few words have zero-initials.\n\n! colspan=\"2\" rowspan=\"2\" |\n!colspan=2|Labial\n! colspan=\"2\" |Labiodental\n!colspan=2|Alveolar\n!colspan=2|Palatal\n!colspan=2|Velar\n! rowspan=\"2\" |Glottal\n!\n!\n!\n!\n!\n! colspan=\"2\" |Nasal\n"}
{"id": "46336658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46336658", "title": "Western Morocco Arabic", "text": "Western Morocco Arabic\n\nWestern Morocco Arabic, Western Moroccan Arabic or ʿAroubi Arabic is a dialectal continuum of Hilalian Arabic, mainly spoken in the plains of western (Doukkala, Abda, Tadla, Chaouia, Rhamna, Sraghna, Chiadma and Zaër) and central-western (Saïss, Gharb and pre-Rif) plains of Morocco.\n\nIt can be divided into 3 regiolects : northern, central and southern. \n"}
{"id": "5800513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5800513", "title": "Zay people", "text": "Zay people\n\nThe Zay are a small ethnic group of about 15,000 people in Ethiopia. “Zay” comes from a Hebrew word, Zayin, one of the twenty-two names for God. Oromo refer to the Zay as Laqi meaning “stirrer” or “paddler”. When the Oromo first saw the Zay on their boats they did not know what they were doing and knew only the stirring motion they made with their paddles. Zay people live on the islands of Lake Zway, south of Addis Ababa, and engage mainly in fishing. The Zay language belongs to the Semitic branch of the Afroasiatic family. It is closely related to the Silte, Harari language, Gurage languages spoken by the neighboring Gurage. The Zay belong to the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church.\nLocal tradition suggests that the Zay people comprise three streams of people that populated the islands of Lake Ziway between the early 9th and the mid-17th centuries. It is believed that the \nZay people spoke the ancient Harla language. The Zay economy is mainly based on subsistence agriculture and traditional fishing. The Zay people cultivate maize, sorghum, finger millet, teff, pepper and barley, and raise cattle, goats, sheep, donkeys and chicken. Island dwellers use papyrus boats for transport, while those on the shore use donkeys and horses. Common health issues include malaria, schistosomiasis, diarrhoea and respiratory diseases. The Zay people generally have limited access to modern health care and primarily rely on medicinal plants, although (as elsewhere in the country) environmental and cultural factors threaten both medicinal plants and traditional medical knowledge.\n\n"}
