{"id": "31033664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31033664", "title": "Abaca slippers", "text": "Abaca slippers\n\nAbaca slippers are made from dried abacá plants and leaves, as well as sometimes from dried pineapple plant leaves. Abaca slippers may be found in the Davao and Mindanao regions of the Philippines and are sold at many markets in the Philippines.\n"}
{"id": "1115938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1115938", "title": "Abaza family", "text": "Abaza family\n\nThe Abaza family (), is an Egyptian family that has had an influential role in Egyptian cultural, economic, intellectual and political life since their establishment in Egypt in the late 18th century to modern times.\n\nIt is known as \"the family of the pashas\" for having produced the largest number of nobles under the Muhammad Ali dynasty from the 19th to the mid-20th Century. While no individual Abaza has been the ruler or president of Egypt, some Egyptian media have referred to them as one of the \"families that rule the country\", and as \"Egypt’s oldest parliamentary dynasty\".\n\nThe Abaza family has also contributed to modern Arabic literature and art through the works of journalist and political activist Fekry Pasha Abaza, author Desouky Bek Abaza, poet Aziz Pasha Abaza, novelist Tharwat Abaza, actor Rushdy Abaza, among others.\n\nThey are thought to number around 50,000 members, but no official census has ever been conducted of Circassian communities residing in Egypt and thus the number is highly unreliable.\n\nAbkhazia is a region of the Caucasian Black Sea coast, the home of the Abkhazians, an ethnic group related to the Circassian people. The Abkhazians were one of several ethnic groups living in the Russian Empire who left during the ethnic cleansing of Circassians in the mid-19th century. However, some sources indicate that the Abaza family was well established in the Nile Delta by the late 18th century In Egypt, the Abkhazians took — or were given — the last name \"Abaza\".\n\nA belief among the Abaza family is that they were named after \"a beloved grandmother ... or her place of birth\". This maternal ancestor is thought to have married the head of the powerful El Ayed family prior to the reign of Muhammad Ali of Egypt. Many elders of the family sat on the Majlis created by Ibrahim Pasha. The monarchy had also endowed the family with villages and lands allowing the Abazas to flourish.\n\nHassan Pasha Abaza, is widely considered to be the modern founding father of the family, also titled \"Sheikh of the Arabs\", a title given to the heads of sufficiently influential families at the time. Other Abazas received variations on the title, such as \"Shiekh Boghdady Pasha Abaza\" who, along with Hassan Pasha, served in Ibrahim Pasha's Majlis making the Abazas the only family to hold two seats at the same time.\n\nOn one occasion, during the accession of the young King Farouk, the Abaza family solicited palace authorities to permit the royal train to stop briefly, at their village, so that the king could partake in refreshments which were offered in a large, ornate tent they had erected at the train station.\n\nIn 2014, the family sued Sada Elbalad TV for the creation of a children's cartoon named Abaza and the program was forced off the air. In the same year Egyptian satellite channel CBC Two aired a one-hour documentary about the family.\n\nA lentil dish attributed to Egypt's Abaza family is known in the country as \"'ads abazy\" ().\n\nNotable family members include Wagih Abaza, who served as governor in several Egyptian governorates including Sharqia, Cairo, Beheira and Gharbia. Wagih Abaza was an active member of the Free Officers Movement that toppled the Egyptian monarchy and forced King Farouk to abdicate in 1952. \n\nThe family is known for their contributions to modern Arabic literature through the works of Aziz Pasha Abaza and Tharwat Abaza, as well as the journalism and political activism of Fekry Pasha Abaza. Tharwat was a journalist and novelist who opposed the nationalization of the Suez Canal. His best-known novel, \"A Man Escaping from Time\", was televised in the late 1960s. \n\nRushdy Abaza, an actor with no less than 150 movies to his name was not chosen to star in Lawrence of Arabia but acted \"like a star\" during the audition.\n\nTharwat Abaza's daughter, Amina Tharwat Abaza, is an active member of Egypt's animal rights community, having founded the country's first and largest animal rights organization, the Society for Protection of Animal Rights in Egypt.\n\nOther notable members of the family include the longest-serving minister in Egyptian history, Maher Abaza. He was the Minister of Electricity and Energy and is credited with connecting the vast majority of the country's rural areas to the electric grid.\n\nTheir main stronghold was the governorate of Sharqia. Several villages in the Nile Delta are named after members of the family, mainly concentrated around the town of Kafr Abaza. For decades, the family had a political monopoly over several districts.\n\nIn the 2015 parliamentary elections, three members of the Abaza family won seats in the House of Representatives and this was criticized by some in the media referring to their win as \"dynastic heredity\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "614484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=614484", "title": "Academic freedom", "text": "Academic freedom\n\nAcademic freedom is the conviction that the freedom of inquiry by faculty members is essential to the mission of the academy as well as the principles of academia, and that scholars should have freedom to teach or communicate ideas or facts (including those that are inconvenient to external political groups or to authorities) without being targeted for repression, job loss, or imprisonment.\n\nAcademic freedom is a contested issue and, therefore, has limitations in practice. In the United States, for example, according to the widely recognized \"1940 Statement on Academic Freedom and Tenure\" of the American Association of University Professors, teachers should be careful to avoid controversial matters that are unrelated to the subject discussed. When they speak or write in public, they are free to express their opinions without fear from institutional censorship or discipline, but they should show restraint and clearly indicate that they are not speaking for their institution. Academic tenure protects academic freedom by ensuring that teachers can be fired only for causes such as gross professional incompetence or behavior that evokes condemnation from the academic community itself.\n\nAlthough the notion of academic freedom has a long implicit history, the idea was first clearly formulated in response to the encroachments of the totalitarian state on science and academia in general for the furtherance of its own goals. For instance, in the Soviet Union, scientific research was brought under strict political control in the 1930s. A number of research areas were declared \"bourgeois pseudoscience\" and forbidden, notably genetics (see \"Lysenkoism\") and sociology. The trend toward subjugating science to the interests of the state also had proponents in the West, including the influential Marxist John Desmond Bernal, who published \"The Social Function of Science\" in 1939.\n\nIn contrast to this approach, Michael Polanyi argued that a structure of liberty is essential for the advancement of science – that the freedom to pursue science for its own sake is a prerequisite for the production of knowledge through peer review and the scientific method.\n\nIn 1936, as a consequence of an invitation to give lectures for the Ministry of Heavy Industry in the USSR, Polanyi met Bukharin, who told him that in socialist societies all scientific research is directed to accord with the needs of the latest five-year plan. Demands in Britain for centrally planned scientific research led Polanyi, together with John Baker, to found the influential Society for Freedom in Science. The Society promoted a liberal conception of science as free enquiry against the instrumental view that science should exist primarily to serve the needs of society.\n\nIn a series of articles, re-published in \"The Contempt of Freedom\" (1940) and \"The Logic of Liberty\" (1951), Polanyi claimed that co-operation amongst scientists is analogous to the way in which agents co-ordinate themselves within a free market. Just as consumers in a free market determine the value of products, science is a spontaneous order that arises as a consequence of open debate amongst specialists. Science can therefore only flourish when scientists have the liberty to pursue truth as an end in itself:\n\n[S]cientists, freely making their own choice of problems and pursuing them in the light of their own personal judgment, are in fact co-operating as members of a closely knit organization.\n\nSuch self-co-ordination of independent initiatives leads to a joint result which is unpremeditated by any of those who bring it about.\n\nAny attempt to organize the group ... under a single authority would eliminate their independent initiatives, and thus reduce their joint effectiveness to that of the single person directing them from the centre. It would, in effect, paralyse their co-operation.\nProponents of academic freedom believe that the freedom of inquiry by students and faculty members is essential to the mission of the academy. They argue that academic communities are repeatedly targeted for repression due to their ability to shape and control the flow of information. When scholars attempt to teach or communicate ideas or facts that are inconvenient to external political groups or to authorities, they may find themselves targeted for public vilification, job loss, imprisonment, or even death. For example, in North Africa, a professor of public health discovered that his country's infant mortality rate was higher than government figures indicated. He lost his job and was imprisoned.\n\nThe fate of biology in the Soviet Union is also cited as a reason why society has an interest in protecting academic freedom. A Soviet biologist Trofim Lysenko rejected Western science – then focused primarily on making advances in theoretical genetics, based on research with the fruit fly (\"Drosophila melanogaster\") – and proposed a more socially relevant approach to farming that was based on the collectivist principles of dialectical materialism. (Lysenko called this \"Michurinism\", but it is more popularly known today as Lysenkoism.) Lysenko's ideas proved appealing to the Soviet leadership, in part because of their value as propaganda, and he was ultimately made director of the Soviet Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Subsequently, Lysenko directed a purge of scientists who professed \"harmful ideas\", resulting in the expulsion, imprisonment, or death of hundreds of Soviet scientists. Lysenko's ideas were then implemented on collectivised farms in the Soviet Union and China. Famines that resulted partly from Lysenko's influence are believed to have killed 30 million people in China alone.\n\nAFAF (Academics For Academic Freedom) of the United Kingdom is a campaign for lecturers, academic staff and researchers who want to make a public statement in favour of free enquiry and free expression. Their statement of Academic Freedom has two main principles:\n\n\nAFAF and those who agree with its principles believe that it is important for academics to be able not only to express their opinions, but also to put them to scrutiny and to open further debate. They are against the idea of telling the public Platonic \"noble lies\" and believe that people need not be protected from radical views.\n\nThe concept of academic freedom as a right of faculty members is an established part of most legal systems. Different from the United States, where academic freedom is derived from the guarantee of free speech under the First Amendment, constitutions of other countries (and particularly of civil law jurisdictions) typically grant a separate right to free learning, teaching, and research.\n\nDuring the interwar years (cir. 1919–1939) Canadian academics were informally expected to be apolitical, lest they bring trouble to their respective universities who, at the time, were very much dependent upon provincial government grants. As well, many Canadian academics of the time considered their position to be remote from the world of politics and felt they had no place getting involved in political issues. However, with the increase of socialist activity in Canada during the Great Depression, due to the rise of social gospel ideology, some left-wing academics began taking active part in contemporary political issues outside of the university. Thus, individuals such as Frank H. Underhill at the University of Toronto and other members or affiliates with the League for Social Reconstruction or the socialist movement in Canada who held academic positions began to find themselves in precarious positions with their university employers. Frank H. Underhill, for example, faced criticism from within and without academia and near expulsion from his university position for his public political comments and his involvement with the League for Social Reconstruction and the Co-Operative Commonwealth Federation. According to Michiel Horn this era marked, \"...a relaxation of the unwritten controls under which many Canadian professors had previously worked. The nature of the institutions, natural caution and professional pre-occupation had before the Depression inhibited the professoriate. None of these conditions changed quickly, but even at the provincial universities there were brave souls in the 1930s who claimed, with varying success, the right publicly to discuss controversial subjects and express opinions about them.\"\n\nProfessors at public French universities and researchers in public research laboratories are expected, as are all civil servants, to behave in a neutral manner and to not favor any particular political or religious point of view during the course of their duties. However, the academic freedom of university professors is a fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic, as defined by the Constitutional Council; furthermore, statute law declares about higher education that \"teachers-researchers (university professors and assistant professors), researchers and teachers are fully independent and enjoy full freedom of speech in the course of their research and teaching activities, provided they respect, following university traditions and the dispositions of this code, principles of tolerance and objectivity\". The nomination and promotion of professors is largely done through a process of peer review rather than through normal administrative procedures.\n\nThe German Constitution () specifically grants academic freedom: \"Art and science, research and teaching are free. Freedom of teaching does not absolve from loyalty to the constitution\" (Art. 5, para. 3). In a tradition reaching back to the 19th century, jurisdiction has understood this right as one to teach ('), study ('), and conduct research (') freely, although the last concept has sometimes been taken as a cover term for the first two. ' embraces the right of professors to determine the content of their lectures and to publish the results of their research without prior approval.\n\nSince professors through their \"Habilitation\" receive the right to teach () in a particular academic field, academic freedom is deemed to cover at least the entirety of this field. ' means a student's right to determine an individual course of study. Finally, ' permits academic self-governance and grants the university control of its internal affairs.\n\nIn Mauritius the academic staff have the following rights, which are stated in the Chapter II Constitution of Mauritius: the protection of Freedom of Conscience, Protection of Freedom of Expression, Protection of Freedom of Assembly and Association, Protection of Freedom to Establish schools and the Protection from Discrimination. In a 2012 paper on the University of Mauritius the author states that although there are no records of abuse of human rights or freedom of the state \"subtle threats to freedom of expression do exist, especially with regard to criticisms of ruling political parties and their leaders as well as religious groups.\" The government of Mauritius endorses the practice of academic freedom in the tertiary institutions of the country. Academic freedom became a public issue in May 2009 when the University of Mauritius spoke out against the previous vice chancellor Professor I. Fagoonee, who had forwarded a circular sent by the Ministry of Education to academics. This circular targeted public officers and required them to consult their superiors before speaking to the press. According to the paper, academics were annoyed by the fact that the vice chancellor had endorsed the circular by sending it to them when it was addressed to public officers. In an interview the vice- chancellor stated that while academics were free to speak to the press they should not compromise university policy or government policy. An academic spoke to the prime minister and the issue was eventually taken up to parliament. The vice chancellor was then required to step down. In return the government publicly endorsed the practice of academic freedom.\n\nThe institutional bureaucracy and the dependence on the state for funds has restricted the freedom of academics to criticize government policy. An interview with Dr. Kasenally an educator at the University of Mauritius expresses her views on academic freedom in the university. The professor states that in 1970s to 1980s the university was at the forefront of debates. But in the 1990s the university stepped away from controversial debates. In 1986, the rights of academics to engage in politics was removed to curtail academic freedom. Academics at the University of Mauritius have thus been encouraged to not express their views or ideas especially if the views oppose those of the management or government. While there have been no cases of arrests or extreme detention of academics, there is a fear that it would hinder their career progress especially at the level of a promotion thus, the academics try to avoid participating in controversial debates.\n\nIn the Netherlands the academic freedom is limited. In November 1985 the Dutch Ministry of Education published a policy paper titled \"Higher Education: Autonomy and Quality\". This paper had a proposal that steered away from traditional education and informed that the future of higher education sector should not be regulated by the central government. In 1992 the Law of Higher Education and Research (Wet op het hoger onderwijs en wetenschappelijk onderzoek, article 1.6) was published and became effective in 1993. However, this law governs only certain institutions.\n\nThe 1987 Philippine Constitution states that, \"Academic Freedom shall be enjoyed in all institutions of higher learning.\" Philippine jurisprudence and courts of law, including the Philippine Supreme Court tend to reflexively defer to the institutional autonomy of higher institutions of learning in determining academic decisions with respect to the outcomes of individual cases filed in the courts regarding the abuse of Academic Freedom by professors, despite the individual merits or demerits of any cases. A closely watched case was the controversial case of University of the Philippines at Diliman Sociology Professor Sarah Raymundo who was not granted tenure due to an appeal by the minority dissenting vote within the faculty of the Sociology Department. This decision was sustained upon appeal by the dissenting faculty and Professor Raymundo to the University of the Philippines at Diliman Chancellor Sergio S. Cao; and though the case was elevated to University of the Philippines System President Emerlinda R. Roman, Roman denied the appeal which was elevated by Professor Raymundo to the University's Board of Regents for decision and the BOR granted her request for tenure. A major bone of contention among the supporters of Professor Raymundo was not to question the institutional Academic Freedom of the Department in not granting her tenure, but in asking for transparency in how the Academic Freedom of the department was exercised, in keeping with traditions within the University of the Philippines in providing a basis that may be subject to peer review, for Academic decisions made under the mantle of Academic Freedom.\n\nThe South African Constitution of 1996 offers protection of academic freedom and the freedom of scholarly research. Academic freedom became a main principle for higher education by 1997. Three main threats are believed to jeopardize academic freedom: government regulations, excessive influence of private sector sponsor on a university, and limitations of freedom of speech in universities.\n\nThere have been an abundance of scandals over the restricted academic freedom at a number of universities in South Africa. The University of KwaZulu-Natal received fame over its restricted academic freedom and the scandal that occurred in 2007. In this scandal a sociology lecturer, Fazel Khan was fired in April 2007 for \"bringing the university into disrepute\" after he released information to the news media. According to Khan he had been airbrushed from a photograph in a campus publication because of his participation in a staff strike last February. In light of this scandal the South African Council on Higher Education released a report stating that the state is influencing academic freedom. In particular, public universities are more susceptible to political pressure because they receive funds from the public.\n\nAcademic freedom pertains to forms of expression by academic staff engaged in scholarship and is defined by the Education Act 1989 (s161(2)) as:\na) The freedom of academic staff and students, within the law, to question and test received wisdom, to put forward new ideas and to state controversial or unpopular opinions; \nb) The freedom of academic staff and students to engage in research; \nc) The freedom of the University and its staff to regulate the subject matter of courses taught at the University; \nd) The freedom of the University and its staff to teach and assess students in the manner they consider best promotes learning; and \ne) The freedom of the University through its Council and Vice-Chancellor to appoint its own staff. \nIn the United States, academic freedom is generally taken as the notion of academic freedom defined by the \"1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure\", jointly authored by the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) and the Association of American Colleges (AAC, now the Association of American Colleges and Universities). These principles state that \"Teachers are entitled to freedom in the classroom in discussing their subject.\" The statement also permits institutions to impose \"limitations of academic freedom because of religious or other aims\", so long as they are \"clearly stated in writing at the time of the appointment\". The Principles have only the character of private pronouncements, not that of binding law.\n\nSeven regional accreditors work with American colleges and universities, including private and religious institutions, to implement this standard. Additionally, the AAUP, which is not an accrediting body, works with these same institutions. The AAUP does not always agree with the regional accrediting bodies on the standards of protection of academic freedom and tenure. The AAUP lists (censures) those colleges and universities which it has found, after its own investigations, to violate these principles. There is some case law in the United States that holds that teachers are limited in their academic freedom.\n\nAcademic freedom has recently come under attack, but some people work to defend the first amendment on campuses.\n\nA prominent feature of the English university concept is the freedom to appoint faculty, set standards and admit students. This ideal may be better described as institutional autonomy and is distinct from whatever freedom is granted to students and faculty by the institution.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States said that academic freedom means a university can \"determine for itself on academic grounds:\n\n\nIn a 2008 case, a federal court in Virginia ruled that professors have no academic freedom; \"all\" academic freedom resides with the university or college. In that case, \"Stronach v. Virginia State University\", a district court judge held \"that no constitutional right to academic freedom exists that would prohibit senior (university) officials from changing a grade given by (a professor) to one of his students.\" The court relied on mandatory precedent of the U.S. Supreme Court case of \"Sweezy v. New Hampshire\" and a case from the fourth circuit court of appeals. The \"Stronach\" court also relied on persuasive cases from several circuits of the courts of appeals, including the first, third, and seventh circuits. That court distinguished the situation when a university attempts to coerce a professor into changing a grade, which is clearly in violation of the First Amendment, from when university officials may, in their discretionary authority, change the grade upon appeal by a student. The \"Stronach\" case has gotten significant attention in the academic community as an important precedent.\n\nAcademic freedom and free speech rights are not coextensive, although this widely accepted view has been recently challenged by an \"institutionalist\" perspective on the First Amendment. Academic freedom involves more than speech rights; for example, it includes the right to determine what is taught in the classroom. The AAUP gives teachers a set of guidelines to follow when their ideas are considered threatening to religious, political, or social agendas. When teachers speak or write in public, whether via social media or in academic journals, they are able to articulate their own opinions without the fear from institutional restriction or punishment, but they are encouraged to show restraint and clearly specify that they are not speaking for their institution. In practice, academic freedom is protected by institutional rules and regulations, letters of appointment, faculty handbooks, collective bargaining agreements, and academic custom.\n\nIn the U.S., the freedom of speech is guaranteed by the First Amendment, which states that \"Congress shall make no law... abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press...\" By extension, the First Amendment applies to all governmental institutions, including public universities. The U.S. Supreme Court has consistently held that academic freedom is a First Amendment right at \"public\" institutions. However, The United States' First Amendment has generally been held to not apply to \"private\" institutions, including religious institutions. These private institutions may honor freedom of speech and academic freedom at their discretion.\n\nAcademic freedom is also associated with a movement to introduce intelligent design as an alternative explanation to evolution in US public schools. Supporters claim that academic institutions need to fairly represent all possible explanations for the observed biodiversity on Earth, rather than implying no alternatives to evolutionary theory exist.\n\nCritics of the movement claim intelligent design is religiously motivated pseudoscience and cannot be allowed into the curriculum of US public schools due to the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, often citing \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" as legal precedent. They also reject the allegations of discrimination against proponents of intelligent design, of which investigation showed no evidence.\n\nA number of \"academic freedom bills\" have been introduced in state legislatures in the United States between 2004 and 2008. The bills were based largely upon language drafted by the Discovery Institute, the hub of the Intelligent Design movement, and derive from language originally drafted for the Santorum Amendment in the United States Senate. According to the Wall Street Journal, the common goal of these bills is to expose more students to articles and videos that undercut evolution, most of which are produced by advocates of intelligent design or biblical creationism. The American Association of University Professors has reaffirmed its opposition to these academic freedom bills, including any portrayal of creationism as a scientifically credible alternative and any misrepresentation of evolution as scientifically controversial. , only the Louisiana bill has been successfully passed into law.\n\nIn the 20th Century and particularly the 1950s during McCarthyism, there was much public date in print on Communism's role in academic freedom, e.g., Sidney Hook's \"Heresy, Yes–Conspiracy, No\" and Whittaker Chambers' \"Is Academic Freedom in Danger?\" among many other books and articles.\n\n\"Students for Academic Freedom\" (SAF) was founded and is sponsored by the David Horowitz Freedom Center to advocate against a perceived liberal bias in U.S. colleges and universities. The organization collected many statements from college students complaining that some of their professors were disregarding their responsibility to keep unrelated controversial material out of their classes and were instead teaching their subjects from an ideological point of view. SAF drafted model legislation, called the Academic Bill of Rights, which has been introduced in several state legislatures and the U.S. House of Representatives. The Academic Bill of Rights is based on the Declaration of Principles on Academic Freedom and Academic Tenure as published by the American Association of University Professors in 1915, and modified in 1940 and 1970.\n\nAccording to Students for Academic Freedom, academic freedom is \"the freedom to teach and to learn.\" They contend that academic freedom promotes \"intellectual diversity\" and helps achieve a university's primary goals, i.e., \"the pursuit of truth, the discovery of new knowledge through scholarship and research, the study and reasoned criticism of intellectual and cultural traditions, the teaching and general development of students to help them become creative individuals and productive citizens of a pluralistic democracy, and the transmission of knowledge and learning to a society at large.\" They feel that, in the past forty years, the principles as defined in the AAUP Declaration have become something of a dead letter, and that an entrenched class of tenured radical leftists is blocking all efforts to restore those principles. In an attempt to override such opposition, the Academic Bill of Rights calls for state and judicial regulation of colleges. Such regulation would ensure that:\n\nOpponents claim that such a bill would actually restrict academic freedom, by granting politically motivated legislators and judges the right to shape the nature and focus of scholarly concerns. According to the American Association of University Professors, the Academic Bill of Rights is, despite its title, an attack on the very concept of academic freedom itself: \"A fundamental premise of academic freedom is that decisions concerning the quality of scholarship and teaching are to be made by reference to the standards of the academic profession, as interpreted and applied by the community of scholars who are qualified by expertise and training to establish such standards.\" The Academic Bill of Rights directs universities to implement the principle of neutrality by requiring the appointment of faculty \"with a view toward fostering a plurality of methodologies and perspectives,\" an approach they claim is problematic because \"It invites diversity to be measured by political standards that diverge from the academic criteria of the scholarly profession.\" For example,\"no department of political theory ought to be obligated to establish 'a plurality of methodologies and perspectives' by appointing a professor of Nazi political philosophy.\" Concurring, the president of Appalachian Bible College in West Virginia fears that the Academic Bill of Rights \"would inhibit his college's efforts to provide a faith-based education and would put pressure on the college to hire professors... who espouse views contrary to those of the institution.\"\n\nPontifical universities around the world such as The Catholic University of America, the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" in Rome, the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium, and the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru depend for their status as pontifical universities and for the terms of academic freedom on the Pope through the Congregation for Catholic Education. The terms of academic freedom at ecclesiastical institutions of education are outlined in the apostolic constitution \"Sapientia Christiana\".\n\nWhile some controversies of academic freedom are reflected in proposed laws that would affect large numbers of students through entire regions, many cases involve individual academics that express unpopular opinions or share politically unfavorable information. These individual cases may receive widespread attention and periodically test the limits of, and support for, academic freedom. Several of these specific cases are also the foundations for later legislature.\n\nThe Bassett Affair at Duke University in North Carolina in the early 20th century was an important event in the history of academic freedom. In October 1903, Professor John Spencer Bassett publicly praised Booker T. Washington and drew attention to the racism and white supremacist behavior of the Democratic party. Many media reports castigated Bassett, and several major newspapers published opinion pieces attacking him and demanding his termination. On December 1, 1903, the entire faculty of the college threatened to resign \"en masse\" if the board gave into political pressures and asked Bassett to resign. He resigned after \"parents were urged to withdraw their children from the college and churchmen were encouraged not to recommend the college to perspective students.\" President Teddy Roosevelt later praised Bassett for his willingness to express the truth as he saw it.\n\nIn 1929, Experimental Psychology Professor Max Friedrich Meyer and Sociology Assistant Professor Harmon O. DeGraff were dismissed from their positions at the University of Missouri for advising student Orval Hobart Mowrer regarding distribution of a questionnaire which inquired about attitudes towards partner's sexual tendencies, modern views of marriage, divorce, extramarital sexual relations, and cohabitation. The university was subsequently censured by the American Association of University Professors in an early case regarding academic freedom due a tenured professor.\n\nIn a famous case investigated by the American Association of University Professors, President Hamilton Holt of Rollins College in March 1933 fired John Andrew Rice, an atheist scholar and unorthodox teacher, whom Holt had hired, along with three other \"golden personalities\" in his push to put Rollins on the cutting edge of innovative education. Holt then required all professors to make a \"loyalty pledge\" to keep their jobs. The American Association of University Professors censured Rollins. Rice and the three other \"golden personalities\", who were all dismissed for refusing to make the loyalty pledge, founded Black Mountain College.\n\nIn 1978, a Nobel prize-winning physicist, electronics inventor, and electrical engineering professor, William Shockley, was concerned about relatively high reproductive rates among people of African descent, because he believed that genetics doomed black people to be intellectually inferior to white people. He stated that he believed his work on race to be more important than his work leading to the Nobel prize. He was strongly criticized for this stance, which raised some concerns about whether criticism of unpopular views of racial differences suppressed academic freedom.\n\nIn 2006, Lawrence Summers, while president of Harvard University, led a discussion that was intended to identify the reasons why fewer women chose to study science and mathematics at advanced levels. He suggested that the possibility of intrinsic gender differences in terms of talent for science and mathematics should be explored. He became the target of considerable public backlash. His critics were, in turn, accused of attempting to suppress academic freedom. Due to the adverse reception to his comments, he resigned after a five-year tenure. Another significant factor of his resignation was several votes of no-confidence placed by the deans of schools, notably multiple professors in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.\n\nThe 2006 scandal in which several members of the Duke Lacrosse team were falsely accused of rape raised serious criticisms against exploitation of academic freedom by the university and its faculty to press judgement and deny due process to the three players accused. This case was very controversial due to the rape culture it pertains to.\n\nIn 2006 trade union leader and sociologist Fazel Khan was fired from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in Durban, South Africa after taking a leadership role in a strike. In 2008 international concern was also expressed at attempts to discipline two other academics at the same university – Nithiya Chetty and John van der Berg – for expressing concern about academic freedom at the university.\n\nJ. Michael Bailey wrote a popular science-style book, \"The Man Who Would Be Queen\", which promotes Ray Blanchard's theory that transwomen are motivated by sexuality, and dismisses the \"woman trapped in a man's body\" concept of transsexuality. In 2007 in an effort to discredit his book, some activists filed formal complaints with Northwestern University accusing Bailey of conducting regulated human research. They also filed a complaint with Illinois state regulators, requesting that they investigate Bailey for practicing psychology without a license. Regulators dismissed the complaint. Other academics have also accused him of sexual misconduct.\n\nIn 2009 Thio Li-ann withdrew from an appointment at New York University School of Law after controversy erupted about some anti-gay remarks she had made, prompting a discussion of academic freedom within the law school. Subsequently, Li-ann was asked to step down from her position in the NYU Law School.\n\nIn 2009 the University of California at Santa Barbara charged William I. Robinson with anti-Semitism after he circulated an email to his class containing photographs and paragraphs of the Holocaust juxtaposed to those of the Gaza Strip. Robinson was fired from the university, but after charges were dropped after a worldwide campaign against the management of the university.\n\nThe University of the Philippines at Diliman affair where controversy erupted after Professor Gerardo A. Agulto of the College of Business Administration was sued by MBA graduate student Chanda R. Shahani for a nominal amount in damages for failing him several times in the Strategic Management portion of the Comprehensive Examination. Agulto refused to give a detailed basis for his grades and instead invoked Academic Freedom while Shahani argued in court that Academic Freedom could not be invoked without a rational basis in grading a student.\n\nIn 2013 the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign offered Steven Salaita a faculty position in American Indian studies but then withdrew the offer in 2014, after reviewing some of his comments on Twitter about Israel.\n\nProfessor David Guth of Kansas University was persecuted by the Kansas Board of Regents due to his tweet, from a personal account linked to the university, regarding the shootings which stated, \"#NavyYardShooting The blood is on the hands of the #NRA. Next time, let it be YOUR sons and daughters. Shame on you. May God damn you.\" Following the controversial comments, Kansas University suspended, but ultimately allowed him to come back. Because of this incident and the moral qualms it raised, the Kansas Board of Regents passed a new policy regarding social media. This new legislature allowed universities to discipline or terminate employees who used social media in ways \"contrary to the best interests of the university.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2200630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200630", "title": "Ah Beng", "text": "Ah Beng\n\nAh Beng is a stereotype applied to a certain group of young Chinese men in Southeast Asia, particularly Singapore and Malaysia, who display common characteristics such as having dyed hair, wearing loud fashion and predominantly speaking Chinese. The female equivalent of an Ah Beng is an Ah Lian (Chinese: 阿莲; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: a-lián).\n\nAh Beng is usually used as a derogatory term for someone. Ah Beng usually means that someone is not highly educated, is unsophisticated, and operates within secret societies and street gangs. Ah Lians are regarded as bimbos, and are stereotyped as anti-intellectual, superficial, materialistic, and shallow.\n\nAh Beng comes from the romanization of the Hokkien pronunciation of 阿明 (). 明 is a word commonly used in the names of Chinese males in the region, thus the term \"Ah Beng\" alludes to their commonness. In the Cantonese-speaking parts of Malaysia, Ah Beng is also known as \"lala zai\". 'Lala' has no actual meaning in itself, while 'zai' means 'boy'. 'Lala zai' refers to individuals who speak Manglish and possess a strong preference for gaudy fashions or hairstyles.\n\nAh Bengs have been featured in several Singaporean films, including:\nThe stereotypical Ah Beng was the title character in the television series \"Phua Chu Kang Pte Ltd\", played by Gurmit Singh. In the show, Chu Kang's brother, Phua Chu Beng, is humorously nicknamed Ah Beng, despite being an articulate, educated architect, the complete antithesis of an Ah Beng.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3329308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3329308", "title": "Applied Drama", "text": "Applied Drama\n\nApplied Drama, also known as Applied Theatre, Interactive Theatre or Applied Drama and Theatre (ADT) is an umbrella term for the use of drama practice in an educational, community or therapeutic context. It is often done in non-theatrical spaces, with participants who do not consider themselves to be artists.\n\nThere are several forms and practices considered to be under the umbrella of Applied Drama. In all these fields approaches and methods of Applied Improvisation are used. \n\nApplied Drama is a term that has been contested, gaining popularity towards the end of the 20th century to describe drama practice in an educational, community or therapeutic context.\n\nJames Thompson states that \"Applied theatre is a participatory theatre created by people who would not usually make theatre. It is, I would hope, a practice by, with and for the excluded and marginalised.\" \n\nJudith Ackyroyd confirms the inclusion of both of these elements in ADT: \"I have identified two features which I believe to be central to our understanding of applied theatre; an intention to generate change (of awareness, attitude, behaviour, etc), and the participation of the audience.\"\n\nApplied drama can be either scripted or unscripted. Some practitioners focus primarily on improvisation, whereas others introduce a range of artistic practices, such as developing scripted plays, devised performances, or indigenous forms of cultural performance, sometimes combined with new forms of digital communication.\n\nPlayback Theatre involves audience or group members telling stories from their lives and viewing them as enacted by actors improvising. It can also be used in conjunction with Narrative Therapy.\n\nDrama in healthcare is drama created in medical contexts, often with the intention of rehabilitation.\n\nThis form of Applied Drama focuses on using theatre to educate, engage, and stimulate healing in medical professionals, patients, and the general public. Theatre and drama in healthcare are tilted towards conscientizing the populace about their health and improving their health and longevity irrespective of status or social stratification. This form of drama is often used to educate people on important health issues such as healthy eating, grief and loss, exercise, and sexual assault prevention. Examples include using actors to role-play health ailments in order to train healthcare professionals, performing plays focused on primary prevention, and facilitating drama workshops for patients.\n\nDrama therapy is the use of Applied Drama techniques to facilitate personal growth and promote mental health.\n\nDrama therapy is rooted in a clinical practice, facilitated by licensed clinicians, that stimulates language, cognitive development and builds resilience.\n\nTheatre for Development uses Applied Drama techniques to facilitate development in less developed countries.\n\nDrama in Education can allow students to develop an understanding of themselves and others. Kathleen Galllagher has argued that 'What is clear is that there is no correct pedagogical model on offer for drama education. [...] In theatre pedagogy, we not only endow experience with meaning, but we are - as players - invited to make manifest our own subjectivities in the world evoked through character and play, a world laden with metaphor and nuance, a world where relationship to other and self-spectatorship are in dynamic and unrelenting interaction.'\n\nTheatre in education (TIE) originated in Britain in the mid-1960s. Monica Prendergast and Juliana Saxton cite TIE as \"one of the two historic roots of applied theatre practice.\" TIE typically includes a theatre company performing in an educational setting (i.e. a school) for youth, including interactive and performative moments.\n\nPractitioner Lynn Hoare defines TIE as a combination of \"theatrical elements with interactive moments in which audience participants (in or out of role) work with actor-teachers towards an educational or social goal, using the tools of theatre in service of this goal.\"\n\nScholar Helen Nicholson notes that this work \"involves professional theatre-makers working with young people in all kinds of educational settings and learning environments, including schools, hospitals, theaters, museums and heritage sites.\"\n\nTIE seeks to educate young people in issues that are relevant to both them and their communities, for example: bullying, dating violence, environmental preservation, and peer conflict resolution. \"TIE companies have always been among the most socially conscious of theatre groups, consistently choosing to examine issues they believe to be of direct relevance to the lives of the children with whom they work.\"\n\n\"Theatre for Dialogue\" (TFD) is a more recent term describing a model that was created specifically for the University of Texas at Austin campus community which pulls methods and theory from a variety of applied theatre practices such as TO and TIE. In her thesis, Spring Snyder explains that \"Theatre For Dialogue performances explore the intersection between theatre and education as a way to investigate, reflect, provoke dialogue and serve as a rehearsal for reality without asking participants to share their own personal experiences. Although some of the Theatre For Dialogue’s roots originate from an adapted form of Boal’s Theatre of the Oppressed’s forum structure, it is Theatre in Education (TIE) that more closely aligns with TFD.\"\n\nIn prison theatre, practitioners engage offenders in correctional facilities, jails, prisons, and detention centers in exploring drama work often with the objective of education or rehabilitation.\n\nExamples include Wabash Valley Correctional Facility’s \"Shakespeare in Shackles\" where maximum security prisoners learn about and perform Shakespeare. The University of Texas’ Center for Women and Gender Studies’ Performing Justice Project works with incarcerated female youth to learn about gender and racial justice while devising a play based on the youth’s unique experiences.\n\nThe Theatre of the Oppressed (TO) describes theatrical forms that the Brazilian theatre practitioner Augusto Boal first developed in the 1960s, initially in Brazil and later in Europe. Boal's techniques aim to use theatre as means of promoting social and political change through allowing the audience to take an active role in the creation of the show. Theatre of the Oppressed can include aspects of Forum Theatre, Invisible Theatre, Legislative Theatre and Image Theatre.\n\nMuseum theatre aims to use theatrical techniques to add emotion and value to the museum experience. It is typically more common in cultural institutions like heritage sites, history museums, and science and industry museums. As with the other forms of applied drama, it can involve a variety of theatrical techniques.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7887962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7887962", "title": "Authority (textual criticism)", "text": "Authority (textual criticism)\n\nThe authority of a text is its reliability as a witness to the author's intentions. These intentions could be initial, medial or final, but intentionalist editors (most notably represented by Fredson Bowers and G. Thomas Tanselle editing school) generally attempt to retrieve final authorial intentions. The concept is of particular importance for textual critics, whether they believe that authorial intention is recoverable, or whether they think that this recovery is impossible. \n\nHere are some examples of authority:\n\n\nA text's authority is made more problematic when it has more than one author, when it falsely asserts itself to be someone else's work, or when it is revised many times. For instance:\n\n\nAuthority can also be related to a particular edition, especially if this edition reaches a degree of popularity.\n\n"}
{"id": "9864241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9864241", "title": "Banner of Poland", "text": "Banner of Poland\n\nThroughout most of the history of Poland, the banner of Poland was one of the main symbols of the Polish State, normally reserved for use by the head of state. Although its design changed with time, it was generally a heraldic banner, i.e., one based directly on the national coat of arms: a crowned White Eagle on a red field (\"Gules an eagle Argent crowned Or\"). The banner should not be confused with the flag of Poland, a white and red , officially adopted in 1919.\n\nDerived from early Slavic flag-like objects, a royal banner of arms dates as far back as the 11th century CE. A symbol of royal authority, it was used at coronations and in battles. In the interwar period, it was replaced with the Banner of the Republic of Poland, which was part of the presidential insignia. A national banner is not mentioned in the current (2007) regulations on Polish national symbols, although today's presidential jack is based directly on the pre-war design for the Banner of the Republic.\n\nThe banner of Poland traces its origins to the early Slavic vexilloids known as \"stanice\" (pronounced ; singular: \"stanica\"), probably used at least as early as the 10th century CE. Although no specimens or images are preserved, a \"stanica\" was probably a cloth draped vertically from a horizontal crosspiece attached to a wooden pole or spear, resembling the Roman \"vexillum\". It was both a religious and military symbol; the \"stanice\" were kept either inside or outside pagan temples in peacetime and were taken to war as military insignia.\n\nWith Poland's conversion to Christianity in the late 10th century, the pagan \"stanice\" were probably Christianized by replacing pagan symbols with Christian ones such as images of patron saints, or a Chi-Rho or dove symbolizing the Holy Spirit. In 1000 CE, during his pilgrimage to the tomb of Saint Adalbert in Gniezno, the capital of Poland until about 1040, Emperor Otto III officially recognized Duke Boleslaus the Brave as King of Poland (see Congress of Gniezno), crowning him and presenting him with a replica of the Holy Lance, also known as Saint Maurice's Spear. This relic, together with the \"vexillum\" attached to it, was probably the first insignia of the nascent Kingdom of Poland, a symbol of King Boleslaus's rule, and of his allegiance to the Emperor. It remains unknown what images, if any, were painted or embroidered on the \"vexillum\".\n\nA royal banner was used as early as the reign of Boleslaus the Generous (r. 1076-1079). The earliest mention of a banner (, pronounced ) bearing the sign of an eagle is found in Wincenty Kadłubek's \"Chronicle\" which says that Duke Casimir the Just fought the Ruthenians in 1182 \"under the sign of the victorious eagle\". A seal of Duke Premislaus II from 1290 shows the ruler holding a banner emblazoned with a crowned eagle. Five years later, Premislaus was crowned King of Poland, and he made the crowned White Eagle a national coat of arms. During the reign of King Ladislaus the Elbow-High (r. 1320–1333), the red cloth with the White Eagle was finally established as the Banner of the Kingdom of Poland (Polish: \"chorągiew Królestwa Polskiego\"). The orientation of the eagle on the banner varied; its head could point either upwards or towards the hoist. The actual rendering of the eagle changed with time according to new artistic styles.\n\nThe national banner was identical with that of Lesser Poland, the territory where Kraków, the capital of Poland until 1596, is located. It was therefore carried by the Standard-bearer of Kraków until that office was replaced by the Grand Standard-Bearer of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland (Polish: \"chorąży wielki koronny\", Latin: \"vexillifer regni\").\n\nOne of the most famous standard-bearers of Kraków was Marcin of Wrocimowice (d. 1442) who carried the national banner in the Battle of Grunwald (Tannenberg) in 1410. The military unit (\"chorągiew\") that went to the battle under that banner comprised the elite of Polish knights, including such chivalrous celebrities as Zawisza the Black, which is a clear sign that the banner, described by the chronicler Jan Długosz as \"the great banner of Kraków Territory\", was also the insignia of the entire kingdom. During the course of the battle, according to Długosz, the national banner slipped out of Marcin's hand and fell to the ground, but it was quickly picked up and saved from destruction by the Polish army's most valiant knights, which further motivated the Poles to strive for victory over the Teutonic Knights.\nWith the establishment of a dynastic union with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania in 1386, it became customary to use two banners—Polish and Lithuanian—as equally important insignia of royal authority. In the mid-16th century, before the creation of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth (real union) in 1569, a single banner for the entire entity also came into use. The Commonwealth banner was initially plain white emblazoned with the arms of the Commonwealth which combined the heraldic charges of Poland (White Eagle) and Lithuania (Pursuer). During the 17th century, the banner was often divided into three or four horizontal stripes of white and red, ending with swallowtails. Elective kings' dynastic arms were often placed in an inescutcheon. Variants with the White Eagle and the Pursuer placed side by side without an escutcheon directly in the field or with the Eagle on the obverse and the Pursuit on the reverse side of the banner were also used.\n\nDuring royal coronations, however, separate banners for each of the two constituent nations of the Commonwealth were still used. Crown (i.e., Polish) and Lithuanian standard-bearers carried the furled banners in a procession to the royal cathedral where, shortly after the anointment and just before the crowning of the king-elect, they handed the banners to the primate who unfurled them and handed them to the kneeling king. The king would then stand up and give the unfurled banners back to the standard-bearers.\n\nPartitions of Poland at the end of the 18th century brought an end to the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. In 1815, the Congress of Vienna established a semi-independent Kingdom of Poland (known as Congress Kingdom) under control of and in personal union with the Russian Empire. The King (Tsar) of Poland at that time used a white royal banner emblazoned with the arms of the Congress Kingdom—a black double-headed Russian eagle with the Polish White Eagle in an inescutcheon.\n\nIn August 1919, the Sejm (lower house of parliament) of the renascent Republic of Poland adopted a law defining the Banner of the Republic of Poland (\"chorągiew Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej\"). The banner was part of the insignia of the head of state—the State Leader (\"Naczelnik Państwa\") and, later, President of the Republic. It was plain red emblazoned with the crowned White Eagle and bordered with a \"wężyk generalski\", a wavy line used in the Polish military as a symbol of general's rank. It was modified on December 27, 1927 to reflect the adoption of a new official rendering of the national coat of arms.\n\nAs a symbol of presidential authority, the banner was carried or flown to mark the presence of the head of state and, at the same time, the commander-in-chief. It was flown on the president's official residence, and used as a car flag and instead of number plates on the president's vehicle. The banner was also used on special national occasions including the welcome ceremony for Ignacy Paderewski in Poznań in 1918 and Poland's wedding to the Baltic Sea in Puck in 1920. It also draped the coffins of Henryk Sienkiewicz in 1924, the Unknown Soldier in 1925, and Marshal Józef Piłsudski in 1935.\n\nFollowing the German-Soviet invasion of Poland in September 1939, President Ignacy Mościcki fled to Romania, taking the presidential insignia, including two specimens of the Banner of the Republic, with him. The banners were kept by the Polish government-in-exile in London until after the fall of Communism in Poland in 1989.\n\nMeanwhile, the new Communist authorities at home used a modified version of the banner with a crownless White Eagle and a wider border. It was first used during the celebrations of the anniversary of the battle of Grunwald in 1945. Officially abandoned in 1955, the banner continued to be used in practice by the prime minister and, during the 1960s, by the Council of State, a collective head of state of the time.\n\nOn December 22, 1990, the last Polish president-in-exile, Ryszard Kaczorowski, handed the presidential insignia, including one of the banners rescued by Mościcki in 1939, to Lech Wałęsa, the first democratically elected president of post-war Poland. The ceremony, held at the Royal Castle in Warsaw was seen as a symbol of the Third Republic's continuity with the pre-war Second Republic. However, since legal regulations on national symbols did not recognize a national banner at that time, the banner brought by Kaczorowski did not become the presidential insignia again but was instead donated to the Royal Castle museum where it is now on display. The other of the two banners remains in the Sikorski Institute in London. Today, a kilim embroidered with the design of the pre-war Banner of the Republic is hanging in the Senate chamber, above the chair reserved for the President of Poland.\n\nIn 1996, the Minister of National Defense established a jack of the President of the Republic of Poland with the purpose of flying it on Polish Navy ships while the commander-in-chief is on board. The jack is identical in its design to the former Banner of the Republic of Poland. In 2005, the use of the presidential jack was extended to all branches of the Polish Armed Forces. It was first flown on land during a Constitution Day ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Warsaw on May 3, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979907", "title": "Bulgari", "text": "Bulgari\n\nBulgari S.p.A (, ; stylized as BVLGARI) is an Italian luxury brand known for its jewelry, watches, fragrances, accessories and leather goods. \n\nWhile the majority of design, production and marketing is overseen and executed by Bvlgari, the company does, at times, partner with other entities. For example, Bvlgari eyewear is produced through a licensing agreement with Luxottica, and, in 2001, the brand formed a joint venture with Group Marriott International to launch its hotel brand, Bvlgari Hotels & Resorts, a collection of properties and resort destinations around the world. \n\nCurrently part of the LVMH Group, Bvlgari was founded in Rome in 1884 by the silversmith Sotirios Voulgaris (Italian: Sotirio Bulgari) as a single jewellery shop that has, over the years, become an international brand. The company has evolved into a player in the luxury market, with an established and growing network of stores.\n\nThe trademark is usually written BVLGARI in the classical Latin alphabet, and is derived from the surname of the company's founder Sotirios Voulgaris (1857-1932, , ). The root of the surname Voulgaris is Βούλγαρ (\"Voulgar\"), which in Greek translates as \"Bulgarian\". In Italy he changed it to Bulgari, which although different, further emphasizes the same meaning and translates as \"Bulgarians\" or people of Bulgarian descent in Italian. \n\nThe BVLGARI logo was used for the first time in 1934, when its gilded brass letters graced the central doorway of the Via Condotti flagship. In reference to ancient Rome, the “U” was replaced with the letter “V”, and a logo was born. Since then, the trademark is written BVLGARI in the classical Latin alphabet.\n\nThe Voulgaris were a silversmithing family from the Epirus region of Ottoman Greece. Whether or not the Voulgaris family of Corfu and the Voulgaris family of the Italian jewelers Bulgari from Epirus share the same paternal line is unclear, but the count Stefanos Voulgaris denied that the Bulgari family of the Italian jewelers family is genealogically related to the Voulgaris family of Corfu. According to chronicles of the Voulgaris family written in Venetian Corfu, the \"Voulgaris family of Saint Spyridon of Corfu\" descend from the royal figures of barbarian peoples from the Volga river, who \"finally settled in Moesia near the Haemus mountains\", so the founding father of this family was described as the \"Triballian\" (de facto Serbian) Prince Stefan Lazarevic in the 16th century testemant of the family, becoming such by taking refugee in the Venetian island Corfu.\n\nThe founder of the Bulgari brand is Sotirios Bulgari (, ) who was born in March 1857 in the Aromanian village Kalarites, Ottoman Empire and was one of eleven children of his father Georgios Voulgaris(1823-1889) and his Aromanian mother Eleni Stronggaris. In 1881, Sotirios Bulgari moved to Rome and, in 1884, opened his first store on via Sistina 85. In 1888, he married Aromanian Eleni Basio with whom he had six children: Constantine-Georgios(1889-1973), Leonidas-Georgios(1890-1966), Maria-Athena(1891-1976), Sofia(1893-1908), Alexandra(1895-1984) and Spyridon(1897-1932), so Leonidas-Georgios is the father of the current chairman of the company Paolo Bulgari. In 1905, he unveiled the Via Condotti shop that would become the company’s flagship. In its early years, Bvlgari was known for silver pieces that borrowed elements from Byzantine and Islamic art, combining them with floral motifs. At the time, Paris was the apex of fashion and creativity, and its trends influenced Sotirio’s designs for decades: jewels of the early 20s were characterised by platinum Art Deco settings while those of the 30s featured geometric diamond motifs—sometimes set in combination with coloured gemstones. Convertible jewels were also popular during the time, and one of Bvlgari’s major piece was the \"Trombino\", a small trumpet-shaped ring.\n\nIn 1932, Sotirio passed away, leaving the business to his two sons, Giorgio (1890–1966) and Costantino (1889–1973), who each had a keen interest in precious stones and jewels. During the Second World War, most new jewellery was crafted out of gold, as gems were scarce, and designs became more natural feeling. As the 40s came to a close, Bvlgari introduced \"Serpenti\" bracelet-watches.\n\nIn the 50s, some of Bvlgari best-known clients included Elizabeth Taylor, Anna Magnani, Ingrid Bergman and Gina Lollobrigida as Rome earned a reputation as \"Hollywood on the Tiber\" with the Cinecittà studios.\n\nAt the same time, Bvlgari went to a new style. The post-war boom saw a return to precious materials, particularly white metals covered in diamonds. In the 50s, Bvlgari launched its first floral brooches—called \"en tremblant\" because of their trembling diamond corollas. At the end of the 50s, Bvlgari began to establish its motifs, introducing structured, symmetrical shapes in yellow gold set with brilliant gems—chosen for their colour rather than intrinsic value. Among these multi-hued jewels, cabochon cuts were another innovation. These new pieces were a significant departure from classical Parisian design.\nAfter Giorgio's death in 1966, his son Gianni led the company as co-chief executive with his cousin Marina. \n\nDuring the 1970s, Bvlgari stores opened in New York, Geneva, Monte Carlo and Paris. This era marks the beginning of the Group’s international expansion, with Gianni as chairman and CEO. A number of new motifs made their debut as well—jewels became recognisable for their angular forms, strong colours, oval elements with cabochons, chains and maxi sautoirs, whilst the predominant use of yellow gold made precious pieces feel all the more wearable, and became known as a Bvlgari trademark. In 1977, Bvlgari entered the world of horlogerie with the launch of the \"BVLGARI BVLGARI\" watch. At the time, Gianni led a complete overhaul of the company, focusing on product design. \n\nIn the early 80s, to oversee all production of Bvlgari watches, Bvlgari Time was founded in Switzerland. In 1984, Paolo and Nicola Bulgari, Giorgio’s sons, became Chairman and Vice-Chairman, respectively, while their nephew, Francesco Trapani, became Chief Executive Officer. In 1985, Gianni resigned as CEO and in 1987, he left the family business after selling his one-third stake in the company to his brothers Nicola and Paolo.\n\nBvlgari diversified its brand in 1993 with the launch of its first fragrance, \"Eau Parfumée au\" \"The Vert\" and the founding of Bvlgari Parfums in Switzerland to oversee the creation and production of all perfumes. In 1995, Bvlgari pushed ahead with an aggressive programme for growth, becoming listed on the Milan Stock Exchange for the first time. In 1996, the brand launched its first accessories collection, beginning with silk scarves before developing a range of leather accessories and eyewear. In 1999, the brand launched the B.zero1 ring.\n\nThe company has seen 150% revenue growth between 1997 and 2003.\n\nThe year 2000 was the beginning of an increasingly aggressive period of verticalization for Bvlgari, with the acquisition of the luxury watchmaking brands Daniel Roth and Gérald Genta, followed by the takeover of the jewellery firm Crova and of other companies that specialised in leather goods and watchmaking. The opening of the first Bvlgari Hotel in Milan in 2004 further confirmed the expansion strategy of the brand, and was the result of a joint venture with Luxury Group, a division of Marriot International. In 2009, Bvlgari celebrated its 125th anniversary with a retrospective of the brand’s history, held in Rome at Palazzo delle Esposizioni. That same year, the snake—a motif that appeared in Bvlgari collections from the 1960s—re-emerged as the emblem of the \"Serpenti\" collection. In 2011, Bvlgari signed a strategic alliance with LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, the world’s leading luxury group. The agreement was based on a stock transfer of the Bulgari family's shares in Bvlgari S.p.A. to LVMH, an all-share deal for €4.3 billion ($6.01 billion), higher than LVMH had offered for any other company. Under the deal, the Bulgari family sold their 50.4 per cent controlling stake in exchange for 3 per cent of LVMH, thereby becoming the second-biggest family shareholder behind the Arnaults in LVMH. The takeover doubled the size of LVMH’s watches and jewellery unit, which at the time of the acquisition included Tag Heuer timepieces and De Beers diamond necklaces. The acquisition concluded on 4 October 2011 as Bulgari was delisted from the Borsa Italiana.\n\nIn 2014, Bvlgari celebrated the 130th anniversary of the brand. To mark the occasion, the shop at Via Condotti 10 was \"reimagined\" by the architect Peter Marino, and reopened. On the same day, the brand donated € 1.5 million to the city of Rome for the restoration of the Spanish Steps. A few months after the Grand Opening, the DOMVS was inaugurated in the redesigned Bvlgari boutique, creating a gallery space to house of Bvlgari’s Heritage Collection.\n\nIn 2017, Bvlgari opened a new jewellery manufacturing headquarters in Valenza. The largest in Europe, with a total area of 14,000sqm, the Manufacture has been given a Gold LEED (Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design) certification for sustainability in its design. The facility was built over the former home of the first goldsmith in Valenza, Francesco Caramora. The buildings follow the model of a Roman domus, and are built around a central courtyard.\n\nBvlgari’s jewellery collections include \"B.zero1, Divas’ Dream, Serpenti, BVLGARI BVLGARI, Parentesi,\" and a bridal line. \n\nBvlgari’s watches collections include \"Octo, BVLGARI BVLGARI, Diagono\" and \"Haute Horlogerie\" creations for men, and \"LVCEA, Serpenti, Divas’ Dream, BVLGARI BVLGARI, B.zero1\" and High Jewellery timepieces for women. It mixes Italian design and Swiss watchmaking. The company's Swiss subsidiary, Bvlgari Haute Horlogerie SA, is responsible for Bvlgari watch production. It was founded in 1980 and is headquartered in Neuchâtel. Bvlgari Haute Horlogerie SA employs about 500 people.\n\nBvlgari’s fragrance assortment includes \"Goldea, Splendida\" and \"Omnia\" for women, \"Bvlgari Man, Aqua\", \"the Classics\", and \"Blv Pour Homme\" for men, whilst \"Bvlgari Le Gemme\" and \"Eau Parfumée\".\n\nThe creation of Bvlgari accessories and leather goods is handled in the Bvlgari atelier in Florence. Twice a year, Bvlgari presents its latest collections at Milan Fashion Week, debuting them at the Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter shows.\n\nIn 2001, Bvlgari S.p.A. formed a joint venture with \"Luxury Group\", the Luxury Division of Marriott International, to launch Bvlgari Hotels & Resorts, a collection of hotels and resort destinations around the world. Their distinctive settings and Italian design by the architectural firm Antonio Citterio-Patricia Viel characterise the properties of Bvlgari Hotel Group. Having grown from a curated collection of three—Milan (opened in 2004), Bali (2006) and London (2012)—the Bvlgari Hotels & Resorts portfolio has recently added Beijing (2017), Dubai (2017) and Shanghai (2018) properties. There are three additional Hotels in the works, with Moscow, Paris and Tokyo slated to open between 2020 and 2022.\n\nBvlgari relies on a distribution network of about 300 stores. The largest Bvlgari store in the world is the 10-story Bvlgari Ginza Tower in Tokyo, 940 square meters of retail floor space, including a restaurant and lounge bar.\n\nNorth American Bvlgari boutiques and distributors are found in Aspen, Atlanta, Beverly Hills, Bal Harbour, Boca Raton, Bethesda (Chevy Chase), Charlotte, Chicago, Costa Mesa, Dallas, Honolulu, Houston, King of Prussia, New York, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Cabo San Lucas. Mx, Montreal, Palm Beach, San Francisco, Short Hills, and Scottsdale, Arizona.\n\nSouth American Bvlgari distributors are found in Lima, Bogotá, São Paulo, Margarita island & Quito.\n\nIn 2009, Bvlgari takes action on behalf of disadvantaged children around the world through a partnership with Save the Children. The brand launched a campaign which included the launch of a Save the Children custom-designed jewellery collection, of which a portion of the proceeds went to the charity. As of 2018, Bvlgari’s contribution has totalled 80 million dollars.\n"}
{"id": "33798461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33798461", "title": "Cheopji", "text": "Cheopji\n\nCheopji (hangul:첩지 ;hanja:疊紙) is a Korean hair accessory decorating the chignon of ladies when they wear a ceremonial dress. It is usually made of silver, and a frog-shape is its common form. The use of \"cheopji\" began after Baljaegaeheok(hangul: 발제개혁; hanja: 髮制改革; a reformation that prohibited Gache hair style, then promoted Chignon hair style) proclaimed by Yeongjo of Joseon. It was used routinely at court, but ordinary people were to use this only when they wear a ceremonial dress.\n"}
{"id": "10791444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10791444", "title": "Cinéma pur", "text": "Cinéma pur\n\nCinéma Pur (French for \"Pure Cinema\") was an avant-garde film movement begun by filmmakers, like René Clair, who \"wanted to return the medium to its elemental origins\" of \"vision and movement.\"\n\nThe term was first coined by Henri Chomette. The goal of the movement was to create a cinema that focused on the pure elements of film like motion, visual composition, and rhythm. It was begun by European filmmakers René Clair, Fernand Léger, Hans Richter, Viking Eggeling, Walter Ruttmann and others. They sought to accomplish their goal by minimizing story and plot, focusing instead on visual concerns by using close-ups, dolly shots, montage, lens distortions, and other cinematic techniques. Films like \"Ballet Mécanique\", \"Symphony Diagonale\", and \"\" projected rhythm and motion in the title of the films and the works themselves. In addition to close-ups, other filmmaking techniques were used to create rhythm and visual interest. They include fast and slow motion, trick shots, stop-action cinematography and dynamic cutting.\n\nThe clearest examples of pure cinema are said by essayist and filmmaker Hubert Revol to be documentaries.\n\nThe Dadaists saw in cinema an opportunity to transcend \"story\", to ridicule \"character,\" \"setting,\" and \"plot\" as bourgeois conventions, to slaughter causality by using the innate dynamism of the motion picture film medium to overturn conventional Aristotelian notions of time and space. The movement also encompasses the work of the feminist critic/cinematic filmmaker Germaine Dulac, particularly \"Thème et variations\", \"Disque 957\", and \"Cinegraphic Study of an Arabesque\". In these as well as in her theoretical writing, Dulac's goal was \"pure\" cinema, free from any influence from literature, the stage, or even the other visual arts.\n\nIt declares cinema to be its own independent art form that should not borrow from literature or stage. As such, \"pure cinema\" is made up of nonstory, noncharacter films that convey abstract emotional experiences through unique cinematic devices such as montage (the Kuleshov Effect), camera movement and camera angles, sound-visual relationships, super-impositions and other optical effects, and visual composition.\n\nCritics and artists used terms such as Absolute Film, True Cinema, and \"Integral Cinema\" — Dulac's term which might better be translated \"Self-Sufficient\" or \"Complete\" Cinema — to stress that these works, all of them, functioned only as cinema art: that they could not exist in any other medium because their essential effect arose from the unique potentials of the cinematic mechanism, such as flexible montage of time and space, measured pacing and control of gaze, exact repetition, single-frame diversity and continuity, superimposition and its related split-screen imagery. \n\nCinéma Pur, a 1920s and 1930s French avant-garde film movement also influenced the development of the idea of \"art film.\" The cinema pur film movement included Dada artists, such as Man Ray (\"Emak-Bakia\", \"Return to Reason\"), René Clair (\"Entr'acte\"), and Marcel Duchamp (\"Anemic Cinema\"). The Dadaists used film to transcend narrative (storytelling) conventions, bourgeois traditions, and conventional Aristotelian notions of time and space by creating a flexible montage of time and space.\n\nChomette adjusts the film speed and shoots from different angles to capture abstract patterns in his 1925 film \"Jeux des reflets de la vitesse\" (\"The Play of Reflections and Speed\"). His film made the following year, \"Cinq minutes du cinéma pur\" (\"Five minutes of Pure Cinema\") reflected a more minimal, formal style. Germaine Dulac's goal of \"pure cinema\" and some of her works inspired the French Cinema pur film movement. \"\" (\"Theme and Variations\") and \"Disque\", both made in 1928, are two examples of cinéma pur by Dulac.\n\nMan Ray directed a number of influential avant-garde short films, known as \"Cinéma Pur\". He directed \"Le Retour à la Raison\" (2 mins, 1923); \"Emak-Bakia\" (16 mins, 1926); \"L'Étoile de Mer\" (15 mins, 1928); and \"Les Mystères du Château de Dé\" (27 mins, 1929). Man Ray also assisted Marcel Duchamp with the cinematography of his film \"Anemic Cinema\" (1926) , and Ray personally manned the camera on Fernand Léger's \"Ballet Mécanique\" (1924). \n\nDirector George Lucas, as a teenager in San Francisco during the early 1960s, saw many exhilarating and inspiring abstract 16mm movies and nonstory noncharacter 16mm visual tone poems screened at cinematic artist Bruce Baillie's independent, underground Canyon Cinema shows; along with some of Baillie's own early visual motion pictures, Lucas became inspired by the work of Jordan Belson, Bruce Conner, Will Hindle, and others. Lucas then went on to enroll as a film student at USC School of Cinematic Arts, where he saw many more inspiring cinematic works in class, particularly the visual movies coming out of the National Film Board of Canada like Arthur Lipsett's \"21-87\", the French-Canadian cameraman Jean-Claude Labrecque's cinéma vérité \"60 Cycles\", the work of Norman McLaren, and the visualist cinéma vérité documentaries of Claude Jutra. Lipsett's \"21-87\", a 1963 Canadian short abstract collage film of discarded footage and city street scenes, had a profound influence on Lucas and sound designer/editor Walter Murch. Lucas greatly admired pure cinema and at film school became prolific at making 16 mm nonstory noncharacter visual tone poems and cinéma vérité, with such titles as \"Look at Life\", \"Herbie\", \"\", \"The Emperor\", \"Anyone Lived in a Pretty (how) Town\", \"Filmmaker\", and \"6-18-67\". Lucas's aesthetic and style was also strongly influenced for the \"Star Wars\" films. Lucas tributes to \"21-87\" appear in several places in \"Star Wars\", with the phrase, \"the Force\", said to have been inspired by \"21-87\". Lucas was passionate and interested in camerawork and editing, defining himself as a filmmaker as opposed to being a director, and he loved making abstract visual movies that create emotions purely through cinema.\n\nThis is a partial list of examples of Cinéma pur or Pure Cinema. For more examples, see the Cinéma pur / Pure Cinema template below.\n\n"}
{"id": "35458477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35458477", "title": "Continuum (journal)", "text": "Continuum (journal)\n\nContinuum: Journal of Media & Cultural Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal affiliated with the Cultural Studies Association of Australasia. It was established in 1987 by Thomas O'Regan and Brian Shoesmith. It is edited by Panizza Allmark (Senior/Chief Editor), John Tebbutt and Timothy Laurie. The journal is published by Taylor & Francis.\n\nFor over thirty years it has contributed to the formation of the discipline of media and cultural studies by identifying new areas for investigation and developing new agendas for enquiry in the fields. The journal has consistently provided a space for important new voices in media and cultural studies, while also featuring the work of internationally renowned scholars. \"Continuum \"is now one of the most highly regarded and most cited journals in media and cultural studies.\n\nThe journal is of central importance to all scholars involved in the research and teaching of media and cultural studies. It provides vital information and ideas for thinking about the formations of media in culture and wider issues of culture.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the International Bibliography of the Social Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "159031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159031", "title": "Cover version", "text": "Cover version\n\nIn popular music, a cover version, cover song, or simply cover, is a new performance or recording by someone other than the original artist or composer of a previously recorded, commercially released song.\n\nBefore the onset of rock 'n' roll in the 1950s, songs were published and several records of a song might be brought out by singers of the day, each giving it their individual treatment. Cover versions could also be released as an effort to revive the song's popularity among younger generations of listeners after the popularity of the original version has long since declined over the years.\nOn occasion, a cover can become more popular than the original, such as Elvis Presley's version of Carl Perkins' original \"Blue Suede Shoes\", Santana's 1970 version of Peter Green's and Fleetwood Mac's 1968 \"Black Magic Woman\", Johnny Cash's version of Nine Inch Nails' \"Hurt,\" Whitney Houston's versions of Dolly Parton's \"I Will Always Love You\" and of George Benson's \"The Greatest Love of All\", Glenn Medeiros's version of George Benson's \"Nothing's Gonna Change My Love for You\" or Jimi Hendrix's version of Bob Dylan's \"All Along the Watchtower\". The Hendrix recording, released six months after Dylan's original, became a Top 10 single in the UK in 1968 (US number 20) and was ranked 48th in \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.\nAnother famous example is the Beatles' cover of \"Twist and Shout\", originally by the Top Notes, and their cover of the song, \"Til There Was You\", by Meredith Willson, among many others.\n\nThe term \"cover\" goes back decades when cover version originally described a rival version of a tune recorded to compete with the recently released (original) version. The \"Chicago Tribune\" described the term in 1952: \"trade jargon meaning to record a tune that looks like a potential hit on someone else's label\". Examples of records covered include Paul Williams' 1949 hit tune \"The Hucklebuck\" and Hank Williams' 1952 song \"Jambalaya\". Both crossed over to the popular Hit Parade and had numerous hit versions. Before the mid-20th century, the notion of an original version of a popular tune would have seemed slightly odd – the production of musical entertainment was seen as a live event, even if it was reproduced at home via a copy of the sheet music, learned by heart or captured on a gramophone record. In fact, one of the principal objects of publishing sheet music was to have a composition performed by as many artists as possible.\n\nIn previous generations, some artists made very successful careers of presenting revivals or reworkings of once-popular tunes, even out of doing contemporary \"cover versions\" of current hits. Musicians now play what they call \"cover versions\" (the reworking, updating or interpretation) of songs as a tribute to the original performer or group. Using familiar material (such as evergreen hits, standard tunes or classic recordings) is an important method of learning music styles. Until the mid-1960s most albums, or long playing records, contained a large number of evergreens or standards to present a fuller range of the artist's abilities and style. (See, for example, \"Please Please Me\".) Artists might also perform interpretations (\"covers\") of a favorite artist's hit tunes for the simple pleasure of playing a familiar song or collection of tunes. A cover band plays such \"cover versions\" exclusively.\n\nToday three broad types of entertainers depend on cover versions for their principal repertoire:\n\nTribute acts or bands are performers who make a living by recreating the music of one particular artist or band. Bands such as Björn Again, Led Zepagain, The Fab Four, Australian Pink Floyd Show, The Iron Maidens and Glory Days are dedicated to playing the music of ABBA, Led Zeppelin, The Beatles, Pink Floyd, Iron Maiden and Bruce Springsteen respectively. Some tribute acts salute the Who, The Rolling Stones and many other classic rock acts. Many tribute acts target artists who remain popular but no longer perform, allowing an audience to experience the \"next best thing\" to the original act. The formation of tribute acts is roughly proportional to the enduring popularity of the original act; for example, dozens of Beatles tribute bands have formed and an entire subindustry has formed around Elvis impersonation. Many tribute bands attempt to recreate another band's music as faithfully as possible, but some such bands introduce a twist. Dread Zeppelin performs reggae versions of the Zeppelin catalog and Beatallica creates heavy metal fusions of songs by the Beatles and Metallica. There are also situations in which a member of a tribute band will go on to greater success, sometimes with the original act they tribute. One notable example is Tim \"Ripper\" Owens who, once the lead singer of Judas Priest tribute band British Steel, went on to join Judas Priest himself.\n\nCover acts or bands are entertainers who perform a broad variety of crowd-pleasing cover songs for audiences who enjoy the familiarity of hit songs. Such bands draw from current Top 40 hits and/or those of previous decades to provide nostalgic entertainment in bars, on cruise ships and at such events as weddings, family celebrations and corporate functions. Since the advent of inexpensive computers, some cover bands use a computerized catalog of songs, so that the singer can have the lyrics to a song displayed on a computer screen. The use of a screen for lyrics as a memory aid can dramatically increase the number of songs a singer can perform.\n\nRevivalist artists or bands are performers who are inspired by an entire genre of music and dedicate themselves to curating and recreating the genre and introducing it to younger audiences who have not experienced that music first hand. Unlike tribute bands and cover bands who rely primarily on audiences seeking a nostalgic experience, revivalist bands usually seek new young audiences for whom the music is fresh and has no nostalgic value. For example, Sha Na Na started in 1969 as a celebration of the doo-wop music of the 1950s, a genre of music that was not initially fashionable during the hippie counter-culture era. The Blues Brothers started in 1978 as a living salute to the blues, soul and R&B music of the 1950s and 1960s that was not in vogue by the late 1970s. The Blues Brothers' creed was that they were \"on a mission from God\" as evangelists for blues and soul music. The Black Crowes formed in 1984, initially dedicated to reviving 1970s style blues-rock. They started writing their own material in the same vein.\n\nSince the Copyright Act of 1909, United States musicians have had the right to record a version of someone else's previously recorded and released tune, whether it is music alone or music with lyrics. A license can be negotiated between representatives of the interpreting artist and the copyright holder, or recording published tunes can fall under a mechanical license whereby the recording artist pays a standard royalty to the original author/copyright holder through an organization such as the Harry Fox Agency, and is safe under copyright law even if they do not have any permission from the original author. A similar service was provided by Limelight by RightsFlow, until January 2015, when they announced they will be closing their service. The U.S. Congress introduced the mechanical license to head off an attempt by the Aeolian Company to monopolize the piano roll market.\n\nAlthough a composer cannot deny anyone a mechanical license for a new recorded version, the composer has the right to decide who will release the first recording of a song. Bob Dylan took advantage of this right when he refused his own record company the right to release a live recording of \"Mr. Tambourine Man\". Even with this, pre-release cover versions of songs can occasionally occur.\n\nLive performances of copyrighted songs are typically arranged through performing rights organizations such as ASCAP or BMI.\n\nEarly in the 20th century it became common for phonograph record labels record companies to have singers or musicians \"cover\" a commercially successful \"hit\" tune by recording a version for their own label in hopes of cashing in on the tune's success. For example, \"Ain't She Sweet\" was popularized in 1927 by Eddie Cantor (on stage) and by Ben Bernie and Gene Austin (on record), was repopularized through popular recordings by Mr. Goon Bones & Mr. Ford and Pearl Bailey in 1949, and later still revived as 33 and 45 RPM records by the Beatles in 1964.\n\nBecause little promotion or advertising was done in the early days of record production, other than at the local music hall or music store, the average buyer purchasing a new record usually asked for the tune, not the artist. Record distribution was highly localized, so a locally popular artist could quickly record a version of a hit song from another area and reach an audience before the version by the artist(s) who first introduced the tune in a particular format—the \"original\", \"introductory\" or \"popularizing\" artist—was widely available, and highly competitive record companies were quick to take advantage of these facts.\n\nThis began to change in the late 1930s, when the growing record-buying public began including a younger age group. During the Swing era, when a bobby soxer went looking for a recorded tune, say \"In the Mood\", typically she wanted the version popularized by her favorite artist(s), e.g. the Glenn Miller version (on RCA Victor's cheaper Bluebird label), not someone else's (sometimes presented on a more expensive record company's label). This trend was marked closely by the charting of record sales by the different artists, not just hit tunes, on the music industry's Hit Parades. However, for sound commercial reasons, record companies still continued to record different versions of tunes that sold well. Most audiences until the mid-1950s still heard their favorite artists playing live music on stage or via the radio. And since radio shows were for the most part aimed at local audiences, it was still rare for an artist in one area to reach a mass audience. Also radio stations tended to cater to broad audience markets, so an artist in one vein might not get broadcast on other stations geared to a set audience. So popular versions of jazz, country and western or rhythm and blues tunes, and vice versa, were frequent. Consider \"Mack the Knife\" (Die Moritat vom Mackie Messer): this was originally from Bertholt Brecht's 1928 Die Dreigroschenoper. It was popularized by a 1956 record \"Hit Parade\" instrumental tune, \"Moritat\", for the Dick Hyman Trio, also recorded by Richard Hayman & Jan August, but a hit also for Louis Armstrong 1956/1959, Bobby Darin, 1959, and Ella Fitzgerald, 1960, as vocal versions of Mack The Knife.\n\nEurope's Radio Luxembourg, like many commercial stations, also sold \"air time\"; so record companies and others bought air time to promote their own artists or products, thus increasing the number of recorded versions of any tune then available. Add to this the fact that many radio stations were limited in their permitted \"needle time\" (the amount of recorded music they were allowed to play), or were regulated on the amount of local talent they had to promote in live broadcasts, as with most national stations like the BBC in the UK.\n\nIn the US, unlike most countries, broadcasters pay royalties to authors and publishers. Artists are not paid royalties, so there is an incentive to record numerous versions of a song, particularly in different genres. For example, King Records frequently cut both rhythm and blues and country and western versions of novelty songs like \"Good Morning, Judge\" and \"Don't Roll those Bloodshot Eyes at Me\". This tradition was expanded when rhythm and blues songs began appearing on pop music charts.\n\nIn the early days of rock and roll, many tunes originally recorded by R&B and country musicians were still being re-recorded in a more popular vein by other artists with a more toned-down style or professional polish. This was inevitable because radio stations were reluctant to play formats outside their target audience's taste. By far the most popular style of music in the mid-1950s / mid-1960s was still the professional light orchestra, therefore popular recording artists sought that format.\nFor many purists these popular versions lacked the raw earthiness of the original introducing artists.\n\nMost did not have the kudos that rebellious teenagers craved, the street credibility — of rock and roll music; most were performed, and some were written, by black artists not heard in popular mass entertainment markets. Most parents considered the bowdlerized popular cover versions more palatable for the mass audience of parents and their children. Artists targeting the white-majority family audience were more acceptable to programmers at most radio and TV stations. Singer-songwriter Don McLean called the cover version a \"racist tool\". Many parents in the 1950s - 60s, whether intentionally racist or not, felt deeply threatened by the rapid pace of social change. They had, for the most part, shared entertainment with their parents in ways their children had become reluctant to do. The jukebox and the personal record disc player were still relatively expensive pieces of machinery — and the portable radio a great novelty, allowing truculent teenagers to shut themselves off.\n\nTunes by introducing or \"original\" niche market artists that became successful on the mass audience Hit Parade charts are called crossovers as they \"crossed over\" from the targeted country, jazz or rhythm audience. Also, many songs originally recorded by male artists were rerecorded by female artists, and vice versa. Such a cover version is also sometimes called a \"cross cover version\", \"male cover\", or \"female cover\". Incidentally, until the mid-1930s male vocalists often sang the female lyrics to popular songs, though this faded rapidly after it was deemed decadent in Nazi Germany. Some songs such as \"If Only for One Night\" were originally recorded by female artists but covered by mostly male artists.\n\nReworking non-English language tunes and lyrics for the Anglo-Saxon markets was once a popular part of the music business. For example, the 1954 worldwide hit The Happy Wanderer was originally \"Der fröhliche Wanderer\", to this must be added \"Hymne a l'amour\", \"Mutterlein\", \"Volare\", \"Seeman\", \"Quando, Quando, Quando,\" \"L'amour est bleu\", etc.\n\nCover versions of many popular songs have been recorded, sometimes with a radically different style, sometimes virtually indistinguishable from the original. For example, Sir Mix-a-Lot's 1992 rap \"Baby Got Back\" was covered by indie rock singer Jonathan Coulton in 2005, in an acoustic soft rock style. Coulton's cover was then covered, without attribution, in 2013 by the show \"Glee\", and was so similar that Coulton, among others, alleged plagiarism of his arrangement. Some producers or recording artists may also enlist the services of a sample replay company such as Titan Tribute Media or Scorccio, in order to replicate an original recording with precision detail and accuracy.\n\nA song may be covered into another language. For example, in the 1930s, a recording of \"Isle of Capri\" in Spanish, by Osvaldo Fresedo and singer Roberto Ray, is known. Falco's 1982 German-language hit \"Der Kommissar\" was covered in English by After the Fire, although the German title was retained. The English version, which was not a direct translation of Falco's original but retained much of its spirit, reached the Top 5 on the US charts. \"The Lion Sleeps Tonight\" evolved over several decades and versions from a 1939 Solomon Linda \"a cappella\" song. Many of singer Laura Branigan's 1980s hits were English-language covers of songs already successful in Europe, for the American record market. Numerable English-language covers exist of \"99 Luftballons\" by German singer Nena (notably one by punk band Goldfinger), one having been recorded by Nena herself following the success of her original German version. \"Popcorn\", a song that was originally completely instrumental, has had lyrics added in at least six different languages in various covers. During the heyday of Cantopop in Hong Kong in the late 1970s to early 1990s, many hits were covers of English and Japanese titles that have gained international fame but with localized lyrics (sometimes multiple sets of lyrics sung to the same tune), and critics often chide the music industry of shorting the tune-composing process.\n\nAlthough modern cover versions are often produced for artistic reasons, some aspects of the disingenuous spirit of early cover versions remain. In the album-buying heyday of the 1970s, albums of sound-alike covers were created, commonly released to fill bargain bins in the music section of supermarkets and even specialized music stores, where uninformed customers might easily confuse them with original recordings. The packaging of such discs was often intentionally confusing, combining the name of the original artist in large letters with a tiny disclaimer like \"as originally sung by\" or \"as made popular by\". More recently, albums such as the Kidz Bop series of compact discs, featuring versions of contemporary songs sung by children, have sold successfully.\n\nIn 2009 the American musical comedy-drama television series \"Glee\" debuted, featuring several musical performances per episode. The series featured solely cover songs performed by the series' titular glee club until near the end of its second season with the episode \"Original Song\". The series still primarily uses cover songs of both chart hits and show tunes, occasionally as mashups or distinct variations. The show's musical performances have been a commercial success, with over twenty-one million copies of \"Glee\" cast single releases purchased digitally, and over nine million albums purchased worldwide.\n\nCover versions (as the term is now used) are often contemporary versions of familiar songs. For example, \"Singin' in the Rain\" was originally introduced by Cliff Edwards in the film \"The Hollywood Revue of 1929\". The famous Gene Kelly version was a revision that brought it up to date for a 1950s Hollywood musical, and was used in the 1952 film \"Singin' in the Rain\". In 1978, it was covered by French singer Sheila accompanied by the B. Devotion group, as a disco song, once more updating it to suit the musical taste of the era. During the disco era there was a trend of taking well known songs and recording them in the disco style. More recently \"Singin' In the Rain\" has been covered and remixed by British act Mint Royale for a television commercial for Volkswagen. Another example of this, from a different angle, is the tune \"Blueberry Hill\", many mistakenly believe the Fats Domino 1956 release to be the original recording and artist. In fact, it was originally introduced on film by Gene Autry and popularized on the record Hit Parade of 1940 by Glenn Miller. The Fats Domino \"rock and roll\" version is the only one that might currently get widespread airplay on most media. Similarly, \"Unchained Melody\" was originally performed by Todd Duncan, featured in the 1955 film \"Unchained\" (based on the non-fiction story \"Prisoners are People\" by Kenyon J. Scudder); Al Hibbler having the biggest number of worldwide record sales for the vocal version with Jimmy Young's \"cover version\" rival outdoing this in the UK, Les Baxter's Orchestra gaining the big instrumentalist sales, reaching the US Hit Parade number one spot in May 1955, but The Righteous Brothers' later version (top five on the US Hit Parade of September 1965 stalling at number 14 in the UK in August) is by far the wider known version, and especially so following its appearance in the 1990 film \"Ghost\". \"House of the Rising Sun\" has hundreds of versions and in many genres such as folk, blues rock and punk as well as dance and dubstep.\n\nDirector Baz Luhrmann has contemporized and stylized older songs for use in his films. New or cover versions such as John Paul Young's \"Love Is in the Air\" occur in \"Strictly Ballroom\", Candi Staton's \"Young Hearts Run Free\" appear in \"Romeo + Juliet\", and adaptations of artists such as Nat King Cole, Nirvana, Kiss, Elton John, Thelma Houston, Marilyn Monroe, Madonna, T. Rex, David Bowie, Queen and The Police are used in \"Moulin Rouge!\" The covers are carefully designed to fit into the structure of each film and suit the taste of the intended audience.\n\nOther artists release new versions of their own previous songs, like German singer Nena who recorded an entire album with great success, with new versions of older hits. Cover songs can be used to display creativity of a performers work through the talent of another artist's previous production. Not to be confused with a Remix, which is defined as altering or distorting the original sound electronically; Cover Versions give a performer the ability to adapt music to their own style, typically allowing them to change the genre of a song and recreating it to their own taste. For example, in 2008, Fall Out Boy covered Michael Jackson's hit song \"Beat It\", changing the genre from pop rock to a more punk rock feel. This is more common with today's covers, taking older popular music and revamping it to compare with modern popular music. Aretha Franklin's cover of Otis Redding's \"Respect\" was voted the greatest cover song of all-time, according to Forbes.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "6946434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6946434", "title": "Cure Salee", "text": "Cure Salee\n\nThe Cure Salée (French: \"Salt Cure\"), or \"Festival of the Nomads\", is a yearly gathering of the Tuareg and Wodaabe peoples in the northern Niger town of Ingall. The ceremony marks the end of the rainy season, and usually occurs in the last two weeks of September. The government of Niger began sponsoring the festival in the 1990s, fixing its date for each year (in 2006: September 11), its duration (three days), and bringing in dignitaries, performers, and tourists.\n\nThe end of the rainy season is an especially important event in the lives of Saharan pastoralists. Tuareg clans gather at the salt flats and pools near Ingall to refresh their cattle and goat herds, and to prepare for the trip further south so they can survive the dry season. The Cure Salée is also believed to benefit the local people, and medicinal cures are a major part of the festival.\n\nHowever, the Cure Salée is as just as important as a social gathering. After a season in dispersed clan groups, there's the chance to share news, trade, and renew friendships both within and across ethnic lines.\n\nFor Tuareg and Wodaabe peoples, Cure Salée marks the time of traditional courtship and marriage. The most famous images of the festival are Wodaabe tradition of Gerewol, in which young men vie for the attention of women seeking husbands. Organized dances and tests of skill culminate in men donning traditional costume, headdress, and elaborate makeup.\n\nAmongst the Tuareg peoples, women seek for the attention of marriageable men, while men of all ages show off their skills as riders, artists, dancers, musicians and craftsmen. A great parade of Tuareg camel riders opens the festival, which continues with races, songs, dances, and storytelling. While the official festival is limited to three days, the festivities can last for weeks while nomadic groups remain in the area.\n\nWhile the Cure Salée has been taking place for several hundred years, independence from France in 1960 brought the involvement of the central government from Niamey, and the attempt to formalise it as a national festival and tourist attraction. During the last in a long line of Tuareg insurgencies (See: Tuareg Rebellion) against the central government, from 1990-1995, InGall was a prime fortification of the Niger armed forces, and no official Cure Salee was held. In September 2000, a \"Flamme du Paix\" ceremonial 'Burning of Weapons' by the rebel and government forces in Agadez forced the first Cure Salée following the final peace deals to be hastily rescheduled.\n\nOn September 17, 2001, a much publicized Tuareg memorial was held for the victims of the 9/11 attacks in the United States.\n\nIn recent years, the Niger government has tried to promote the Cure Salée, creating a tourist festival (sponsored by large international corporations like Coca-Cola) for western visitors, and using the cross-ethnic traditions of the Cure Salée to foster \"a celebration of social cohesion in Niger\". This aspect has come to the fore following 2000. Official involvement also has brought a greater emphasis on culture common to the rest of Niger: electric pop bands, beauty contests, and the sometimes forced ending of other rituals. In 2005, armed Niger Army troops enforced a ban on a traditional dance that emulates self-mutilation.\n\nOne Wodaabe man was quoted by the AFP:\n\nIt is more and more of a circus. The government sets the date artificially, decides who gets to perform, and creates a structure none of us understand.\n\nThe [UN Joint Programme on HIV/AIDS], UNICEF, and the Niger government have begun using Cure Salée to provide aid in stemming HIV infection, and as well as malaria, guinea worm, malnutrition and encourage the use of vaccines to control preventable diseases. Vaccines and treatment of livestock, many bound for more heavily populated southern Niger, have also been mandated by the government. The 2004-2006 drought and famine in much of Niger has also focused attention on food aid at the Cure Salée.\n\n"}
{"id": "37847920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37847920", "title": "Czech traditional clothing", "text": "Czech traditional clothing\n\nCzech traditional clothing expresses Czech history relative to Czech culture and behaviour. Czech folk clothing may be divided into two groups: the Western style in Bohemia and mid-Moravia, and the Eastern style in Moravia and Silesia. In both regions, clothes were made from wool and homespun linen (good for winter). During summer, Czechs wore lightweight fabrics such as silk. Women’s traditional clothing consisted of two aprons, tied in the front and back, and a white blouse. For men, a typical outfit included long breeches and a loose jacket.\n\nInformation became available during the fifteenth century about styles, accessories and materials used. Under serfdom valuable materials (such as silk and velvet) were prohibited, and farmers wore simple clothing. The sixteenth century was a time of development of textile and sewing technologies; for example, women's clothing was fitted at the waist.\n\nResidents of Plzeň wore traditional clothing until the late nineteenth century. Women in the city wore several layers of thin skirts, a distinguishing feature. The primary fabric was cotton, decorated with ribbons and a silk scarf tied across the chest.\n\nDress in the Prácheňsko region differed by generation. Typical dress for a teenaged boy would include a short jacket, narrow trousers and high boots. Older men wore long coats instead of jackets. Women's clothing had a number of differences between the young and old. Married woman wore long skirts (indicating their status), and a white scarf was tied around the head. The \"caftan\" consisted of a skirt and bodice.\n\nResidents of the Bohemian-Moravian Highlands dressed more simply. Young boys wore short undershirts, and the most elaborate element of traditional male clothing was a fur coat.\n\nIn Haná, folk dress was traditional and indicated occupation; dark, simple colors were worn by working people. Women wore a long dress or a high-belted skirt (\"oplicko\") with a short bolero jacket with a stand-up collar. Hanakian women wore a coloured scarf (\"uvodnice\") on special occasions. Like many areas of the Czech Republic, white (sometimes black or yellow) wool coats were popular. Men wore narrow breeches (\"cervenice\"), made of yellow leather in the rural districts near Brno. In cool weather a long, white coat was worn, followed by a dark cloth coat in cold weather. For holidays and festivals, coats with wide, gathered collars were worn. Fine clothing featured yellow, white or black embroidery.\n\nCompared to other Czech traditional costumes, clothing in the Moravian Slovak highlands was simple.\n\nContemporary dress in the Czech Republic does not differ from that of other Western countries. The shift from traditional to modern clothing occurred during the second half of the nineteenth century, with location playing an important role. Prague is a metropolis with many different nationalities, and the city changed to modern dress earlier than other parts of the Czech Republic; residents of small Bohemian and Moravian villages still wear folk dress. \n\nAlthough traditional folk costumes have fallen out of contemporary fashion, many painters, sculptors and writers use them to symbolize the history of the Czech Republic; painter Mikolas Ales depicts traditional Czech clothing, particularly that of his hometown Mirotice.\n"}
{"id": "8884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8884", "title": "Danse Macabre", "text": "Danse Macabre\n\nThe Danse Macabre (from the French language), also called the Dance of Death, is an artistic genre of allegory of the Late Middle Ages on the universality of death: no matter one's station in life, the Dance Macabre unites all.\n\nThe Danse Macabre consists of the dead or a personification of death summoning representatives from all walks of life to dance along to the grave, typically with a pope, emperor, king, child, and laborer. They were produced as mementos mori, to remind people of the fragility of their lives and how vain were the glories of earthly life. Its origins are postulated from illustrated sermon texts; the earliest recorded visual scheme was a now-lost mural at Holy Innocents' Cemetery in Paris dating from 1424 to 1425.\n\nThe earliest recorded visual example is the lost mural on the south wall of the cemetery of the Holy Innocents in Paris, which was painted in 1424-25 during the regency of John, Duke of Bedford: with its emphatic inclusion of a dead crowned king at a time when France did not have a crowned king, the mural may well have had a political subtext. There were also painted schemes in Basel (the earliest dating from c.1440); a series of paintings on canvas by Bernt Notke, in Lübeck (1463); the initial fragment of the original Bernt Notke painting (accomplished at the end of the 15th century) in the St Nicholas' Church, Tallinn, Estonia (Danse Macabre); the painting at the back wall of the chapel of Sv. Marija na Škrilinama in the Istrian town of Beram (1471), painted by Vincent of Kastav; the painting in the Holy Trinity Church, Hrastovlje, Istria by John of Kastav (1490). \n\nA notable example was painted on the cemetery walls of the Dominican Abbey in Bern by Niklaus Manuel Deutsch in 1516/7.\nThis work was destroyed when the wall was torn down in 1660, but a 1649 copy by Albrecht Kauw is extant.\nThere was also a Dance of Death painted around 1430 and displayed on the walls of Pardon Churchyard at Old St Paul's Cathedral, London, with texts by John Lydgate, known as the 'Dauce of (St) Poulys', which was destroyed in 1549.\n\nThe deathly horrors of the 14th century such as recurring famines, the Hundred Years' War in France, and, most of all, the Black Death, were culturally assimilated throughout Europe. The omnipresent possibility of sudden and painful death increased the religious desire for penance, but it also evoked a hysterical desire for amusement while still possible; a last dance as cold comfort. The danse macabre combines both desires: in many ways similar to the mediaeval mystery plays, the dance-with-death allegory was originally a didactic dialogue poem to remind people of the inevitability of death and to advise them strongly to be prepared at all times for death (see \"memento mori\" and \"Ars moriendi\").\n\nShort verse dialogues between Death and each of its victims, which could have been performed as plays, can be found in the direct aftermath of the Black Death in Germany and in Spain (where it was known as the \"Totentanz\" and \"la Danza de la Muerte\", respectively). The French term \"danse macabre\" may derive from the Latin \"Chorea Machabæorum\", literally \"dance of the Maccabees.\" In 2 Maccabees, a deuterocanonical book of the Bible, the grim martyrdom of a mother and her seven sons is described and was a well-known mediaeval subject. It is possible that the Maccabean Martyrs were commemorated in some early French plays or that people just associated the book's vivid descriptions of the martyrdom with the interaction between Death and its prey.\n\nAn alternative explanation is that the term entered France via Spain, the , \"maqabir\" (cemetery) being the root of the word. Both the dialogues and the evolving paintings were ostensive penitential lessons that even illiterate people (who were the overwhelming majority) could understand.\nFrescoes and murals dealing with death had a long tradition and were widespread, e.g. the legend of the Three Living and the Three Dead: on a ride or hunt, three young gentlemen meet three cadavers (sometimes described as their ancestors) who warn them, \"Quod fuimus, estis; quod sumus, vos eritis\" (What we were, you are; what we are, you will be). Numerous mural versions of that legend from the 13th century onwards have survived (for instance, in the of Wismar or the residential Longthorpe Tower outside Peterborough). Since they showed pictorial sequences of men and corpses covered with shrouds, those paintings are sometimes regarded as cultural precursors of the new genre.\n\nA \"danse macabre\" painting may show a round dance headed by Death or a chain of alternating dead and live dancers. From the highest ranks of the mediaeval hierarchy (usually pope and emperor) descending to its lowest (beggar, peasant, and child), each mortal's hand is taken by a skeleton or an extremely decayed body. The famous \"Totentanz\" by Bernt Notke in St. Mary's Church, Lübeck (destroyed during the Allied bombing of Lübeck in World War II), presented the dead dancers as very lively and agile, making the impression that they were actually dancing, whereas their living dancing partners looked clumsy and passive. The apparent class distinction in almost all of these paintings is completely neutralized by Death as the ultimate equalizer, so that a sociocritical element is subtly inherent to the whole genre. The \"Totentanz\" of Metnitz, for example, shows how a pope crowned with his mitre is being led into Hell by the dancing Death.\n\nUsually, a short dialogue is attached to each victim, in which Death is summoning him (or, more rarely, her) to dance and the summoned is moaning about impending death. In the first printed \"Totentanz\" textbook (Anon.: Vierzeiliger oberdeutscher Totentanz, Heidelberger Blockbuch, approx. 1460), Death addresses, for example, the emperor:\n\nAt the lower end of the \"Totentanz\", Death calls, for example, the peasant to dance, who answers:\n\nThe famous designs by Hans Holbein the Younger (1497–1543) for his Dance of Death series were drawn in 1526 while he was in Basel. They were cut in wood by the accomplished Formschneider (block cutter) Hans Lützelburger. William Ivins (quoting W.J. Linton) writes of Lützelburger's work: \"'Nothing indeed, by knife or by graver, is of higher quality than this man's doing,' for by common acclaim the originals are technically the most marvelous woodcuts ever made.\" These woodcuts soon appeared in proofs with titles in German. The first book edition, containing forty-one woodcuts, was published at Lyons by the Treschsel brothers in 1538. The popularity of the work and the currency of its message are underscored by the fact that there were eleven editions before 1562 and over the sixteenth century perhaps as many as a hundred unauthorized editions and imitations. Ten further designs were added in later editions.\n\nThe \"Dance of Death\" (1523–26) refashions the late-medieval allegory of the \"danse macabre\" as a reformist satire, and one can see the beginnings of a gradual shift from traditional to reformed religion. That shift had many permutations however, and in a thoroughly detailed study Natalie Zemon Davis has shown that the contemporary reception and afterlife of Holbein's designs lent themselves to neither purely Catholic or Protestant doctrine, but could be outfitted with different surrounding prefaces and sermons as printers and writers of different political and religious leanings took them up. Most importantly, it was \"The pictures and the Bible quotations above them were the main attractions ... Both Catholics and Protestants wished, through the pictures, to turn men's thoughts to a Christian preparation for death.\".\n\nThe 1538 edition which contained Latin quotations from the Bible above Holbein's designs, and a French quatrain below composed by Gilles Corrozet, actually did not credit Holbein as the artist. It bore the title: Les simulachres & / HISTORIEES FACES / DE LA MORT, AUTANT ELE/gammēt pourtraictes, que artifi/ciellement imaginées. / A Lyon. / Soubz l'escu de COLOIGNE. / M.D. XXXVIII. (\"Images and Illustrated facets of Death, as elegantly depicted as they are artfully conceived.\") These images and workings of death as captured in the phrase \"historiees faces\" of the title \"are the particular exemplification of the way death works, the individual scenes in which the lessons of mortality are brought home to people of every station.\" In his preface to the work Jean de Vauzèle, the Prior of Montrosier, addresses Jehanne de Tourzelle, the Abbess of the Convent at St. Peter at Lyons, and names Holbein's attempts to capture the ever-present, but never directly seen, abstract images of death \"simulachres.\" He writes: \"... simulachres les dis ie vrayement, pour ce que simulachre vient de simuler, & faindre ce que n'est point.\" (\"Simulachre they are most correctly called, for simulachre derives from the verb to simulate and to feign that which is not really there.\") He next employs a trope from the memento mori (remember we all must die) tradition and a metaphor from printing which well captures the undertakings of Death, the artist, and the printed book before us in which these simulachres of death barge in on the living: \"Et pourtant qu'on n'a peu trouver chose plus approchante a la similitude de Mort, que la personne morte, on d'icelle effigie simulachres, & faces de Mort, pour en nos pensees imprimer la memoire de Mort plus au vis, que ne pourroient toutes les rhetoriques descriptiones de orateurs.\" (\"And yet we cannot discover any one thing more near the likeness of Death than the dead themselves, whence come these simulated effigies and images of Death's affairs, which imprint the memory of Death with more force than all the rhetorical descriptions of the orators ever could.\").\n\nHolbein's series shows the figure of \"Death\" in many disguises, confronting individuals from all walks of life. None escape Death's skeletal clutches, not even the pious. As Davis writes, \"Holbein's pictures are independent dramas in which Death comes upon his victim in the midst of the latter's own surroundings and activities. This is perhaps nowhere more strikingly captured than in the wonderful blocks showing the plowman earning his bread by the sweat of his brow only to have his horses speed him to his end by Death. The Latin from the 1549 Italian edition pictured here reads: \"In sudore vultus tui, vesceris pane tuo.\" (\"Through the sweat of thy brow you shall eat your bread\"), quoting Genesis 3.19. The Italian verses below translate: (\"Miserable in the sweat of your brow,/ It is necessary that you acquire the bread you need eat,/ But, may it not displease you to come with me,/ If you are desirous of rest.\"). Or there is the nice balance in composition Holbein achieves between the heavy-laden traveling salesman insisting that he must still go to market while Death tugs at his sleeve to put down his wares once and for all: \"Venite ad me, qui onerati estis.\" (\"Come to me, all ye who [labor and] are heavy laden\"), quoting Matthew 11.28. The Italian here translates: (\"Come with me, wretch, who are weighed down,/ Since I am the dame who rules the whole world:/ Come and hear my advice,/ Because I wish to lighten you of this load.\").\n\nMusical examples include\n\nThe motif \"Death and the Maiden\", is related to, and may have been derived from, the \"Danse Macabre\". It has received numerous treatments in various media—most prominently Schubert's quartet of that name. Further developments of the \"Danse Macabre\" motif include \"Death and the King's Horseman\", \"Death and the Senator\", \"Death and the Compass\", and \"Death and the Physician\".\n\n\n“Dance Macabre” a song put out by a band called Ghost in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1299628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1299628", "title": "Danse macabre (Saint-Saëns)", "text": "Danse macabre (Saint-Saëns)\n\nDanse macabre, Op. 40, is a tone poem for orchestra, written in 1874 by the French composer Camille Saint-Saëns. It is in the key of G minor. It started out in 1872 as an art song for voice and piano with a French text by the poet Henri Cazalis, which is based on an old French superstition. In 1874, the composer expanded and reworked the piece into a tone poem, replacing the vocal line with a solo violin part.\n\nAccording to legend, \"Death\" appears at midnight every year on Halloween. Death calls forth the dead from their graves to dance for him while he plays his fiddle (here represented by a solo violin). His skeletons dance for him until the rooster crows at dawn, when they must return to their graves until the next year.\n\nThe piece opens with a harp playing a single note, D, twelve times (the twelve strokes of midnight) which is accompanied by soft chords from the string section. The solo violin enters playing the tritone, which was known as the \"diabolus in musica\" (\"the Devil in music\") during the Medieval and Baroque eras, consisting of an A and an E—in an example of scordatura tuning, the violinist's E string has actually been tuned down to an E to create the dissonant tritone. \n\nThe first theme is heard on a solo flute, followed by the second theme, a descending scale on the solo violin which is accompanied by soft chords from the string section. The first and second themes, or fragments of them, are then heard throughout the various sections of the orchestra. The piece becomes more energetic and at its midpoint, right after a contrapuntal section based on the second theme, there is a direct quote played by the woodwinds of \"Dies irae\", a Gregorian chant from the Requiem that is melodically related to the work's second theme. The \"Dies irae\" is presented unusually in a major key. After this section the piece returns to the first and second themes and climaxes with the full orchestra playing very strong dynamics. Then there is an abrupt break in the texture and the coda represents the dawn breaking (a cockerel's crow, played by the oboe) and the skeletons returning to their graves.\n\nThe piece makes particular use of the xylophone to imitate the sounds of rattling bones. Saint-Saëns uses a similar motif in the \"Fossils\" movement of \"The Carnival of the Animals\".\n\n\"Danse macabre\" is scored for an obbligato violin and an orchestra consisting of one piccolo, two flutes, two oboes, two clarinets in B, two bassoons; four horns in G and D, two trumpets in D, three trombones, one tuba; a percussion section that includes timpani, xylophone, bass drum, cymbals and triangle; one harp and strings.\n\nWhen \"Danse macabre\" was first performed it was not well received. The piece caused widespread consternation: the commentator Roger Nichols mentions adverse reaction to \"the deformed \"Dies irae\" plainsong\", the \"horrible screeching from solo violin\", the use of a xylophone and \"the hypnotic repetitions\", in which Nichols hears a pre-echo of Ravel's \"Boléro.\n\nToday, it's considered one of Saint-Saëns masterpieces, widely regarded and reproduced in erudite and popular culture.\n\nShortly after the premiere, the piece was transcribed into a piano arrangement by Franz Liszt (S.555), a good friend of Saint-Saëns. The best-known piano transcription (for four hands) is by Ernest Guiraud. The composition was again later transcribed for piano by Vladimir Horowitz. There is an organ transcription by Edwin Lemare.\n\nThe piece was later used in dance performances, including those of Anna Pavlova.\n\nThe piece is played offstage during the first act of Henrik Ibsen's 1896 play \"John Gabriel Borkman.\"\n\nThe piece is used as a recurring ironic motif in Jean Renoir's 1939 film \"The Rules of the Game\" (La Règle du Jeu),\n\nAn adaptation of the piece is used as the theme music for \"Jonathan Creek\", a mystery crime series on British television.\n\nThe piece is used in the animated television series \"Modern Toss\" as the theme tune for the character, Mr. Tourette - Master Signwriter.\n\nThe piece is used in the Dutch theme park \"Efteling\" in the attraction Haunted Castle.\n\nIt can be heard in \"Alone in the Dark\" after setting the record on the Gramophone in the Dance Hall.\n\nA portion of the piece can be heard in the 1993 western film \"Tombstone\" during the performance of the stage version of \"Faust\".\n\nA synthesized version of the piece is used in the soundtrack for the anime television series Dimension W.\n\nIn Neil Gaiman's novel \"The Graveyard Book\" the characters dance the \"Macabray\". In the audiobook, the Danse Macabre is played between chapters.\n\nKorean figure skater Yuna Kim used the piece as her short program music in 2008-2009 season.\n\nThe piece is used in several instances during the 2011 \"Grimm\" episode \"Danse Macabre\", for which it is named.\n\nThe piece can be heard during the New Year's Eve festivities in the 2014 gothic horror film, \"Stonehearst Asylum.\"\n\nThe piece is played in the \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" episode \"Hush\"; rather than serving merely as soundtrack, the character Rupert Giles plays the song in-universe while describing the episode's villains, the Gentlemen.\n\nThe piece's title is used for a \"Hitman\" mission set in Italy, in which Agent 47 is required to crush three victims with falling objects while dressed as a plague doctor.\n\nThe piece is arranged in multiple levels of \"The End is Nigh\", such as \"The End\" and \"Mortaman\".\n\nThe piece is used in the opening of Season 2 Episode 8 of the USA original, \"Mr. Robot\".\n\nThe piece was used in a Jameson Irish Whiskey commercial \n"}
{"id": "39509095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39509095", "title": "Dead Christ Supported by Two Angels", "text": "Dead Christ Supported by Two Angels\n\nDead Christ Supported by Two Angels is a painting by Italian Renaissance painter Giovanni Bellini, created around 1460. It is housed in the Museo Correr in Venice.\n\nThe panel is one of Bellini's earliest \"Pietà\" compositions, together with those in the Accademia Carrara of Bergamo and in the Museo Poldi Pezzoli of Milan. The date in the sepulchre's edge (1499) is apocriphal, such as Albrecht Dürer's monogram.\n"}
{"id": "521601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521601", "title": "Decimal Day", "text": "Decimal Day\n\nOn 15 February 1971, known as Decimal Day, the United Kingdom and Ireland decimalised their currencies.\n\nUnder the old currency of pounds, shillings and pence, the pound was made up of 240 pence (denoted by the letter \"d\" for Latin \"denarius\" and now referred to as \"old pence\"), with 12 pence in a shilling and 20 shillings (denoted by \"s\" for Latin \"solidus\") in a pound.\n\nThe loss of value of the currency meant that the \"old\" penny, with the same diameter as the US half-dollar, had become of relatively low value.\n\nThe Coinage Act of 1792 had officially authorized the United States as the first English-speaking nation to have decimalised currency, although Tsar Peter the Great used the concept for the Russian ruble close to a century earlier, in 1704, while China has used such a decimal system for at least 2000 years. The United Kingdom's Parliament rejected Sir John Wrottesley's proposals to decimalise sterling in 1824, which was prompted by the introduction in 1795 of the decimal French franc. After this defeat, little practical progress towards decimalisation was made for over a century, with the exception of the two-shilling silver florin (worth of a pound) first issued in 1849. A double florin or four-shilling piece was a further step in that direction but failed to gain acceptance and was struck only from 1887 to 1890.\n\nThe Decimal Association was founded in 1841 to promote decimalisation and metrication, both causes that were boosted by a realisation of the importance of international trade following the 1851 Great Exhibition. It was as a result of the growing interest in decimalisation that the florin was issued.\n\nIn their preliminary report, the \"Royal Commission on Decimal Coinage\" (1856–1857) considered the benefits and problems of decimalisation but did not draw any conclusion about the adoption of any such scheme. A final report in 1859 from the two remaining commissioners, Lord Overstone and Governor of the Bank of England John Hubbard came out against the idea, claiming it had \"few merits\".\n\nIn 1862, the \"Select Committee on Weights and Measures\" favoured the introduction of decimalisation to accompany the introduction of metric weights and measures.\n\nThe decimalisation movement even entered fiction. In Anthony Trollope's Palliser novels (and more so in the television series based on them), Plantagenet Palliser is a passionate advocate of decimalisation, a cause the other characters seem to find intensely boring. Palliser's scheme would have divided the shilling into ten (presumably revalued) pennies. This would have changed the threepence into new pence, the sixpence into fivepence and the half crown into a two shilling, five pence piece. It would also have required the withdrawal and reissuance of the existing copper coinage. At the end of the fifth book in the series, \"The Prime Minister\", Palliser (now Duke of Omnium) muses that the reform will not be accomplished, since it can only be done by a Chancellor of the Exchequer sitting in the House of Commons, and the Duke now sits in the House of Lords.\n\nThe \"Royal Commission on Decimal Coinage\" (1918–1920), chaired by Lord Emmott, reported in 1920 that the only feasible scheme was to divide the pound into 1,000 mills (the \"pound and mill\" system, first proposed in 1824) but that this would be too inconvenient. A minority of four members disagreed, saying that the disruption would be worthwhile. A further three members recommended that the pound should be replaced by the Royal, consisting of 100 halfpennies (i.e. there would be 4.8 Royals to the former pound).\n\nIn 1960, a report prepared jointly by the British Association for the Advancement of Science and the Association of British Chambers of Commerce, followed by the success of decimalisation in South Africa, prompted the Government to set up the \"Committee of the Inquiry on Decimal Currency\" (Halsbury Committee) in 1961, which reported in 1963. The adoption of the changes suggested in the report was announced on 1 March 1966. The Decimal Currency Board (DCB) was created to manage the transition, although the plans were not approved by Parliament until the Decimal Currency Act in May 1969. Former Greater London Council leader Bill Fiske was named as the Chairman of the Decimal Currency Board.\n\nConsideration was given to introducing a new major unit of currency worth ten shillings in the old currency: suggested names included the \"new pound\", the \"royal\" and the \"noble\". This would have resulted in the \"decimal penny\" being worth only slightly more than the old penny (this approach was adopted, for example, when South Africa, Australia and New Zealand decimalised in the 1960s, adopting respectively the South African rand, Australian dollar and New Zealand dollar equal in value to 10 shillings). But Halsbury decided, in view of the pound sterling's importance as a reserve currency, that the pound should remain unchanged.\n\nUnder the new system, the pound was retained but was divided into 100 new pence, denoted by the symbol \"p\". New coinage was issued alongside the old coins. The 5p and 10p coins were introduced in April 1968 and were the same size, composition, and value as the shilling and two shillings coins in circulation with them. In October 1969 the 50p coin was introduced, with the 10s note withdrawn on 20 November 1970. This reduced the number of new coins that had to be introduced on Decimal Day and meant that the public was already familiar with three of the six new coins. Small booklets were made available containing some or all of the new denominations.\n\nThe old halfpenny was withdrawn from circulation on 31 July 1969, and the half-crown (2s 6d) followed on 31 December to ease the transition. (The farthing had last been minted in 1956 and had ceased to be legal tender in 1960.)\n\nThere was a substantial publicity campaign in the weeks before Decimalisation Day, including a song by Max Bygraves called \"Decimalisation\". The BBC broadcast a series of five-minute programmes, \"Decimal Five\", to which The Scaffold contributed some specially written tunes. ITV repeatedly broadcast a short drama called \"Granny Gets The Point\", starring Doris Hare, the actress in \"On The Buses\", where an elderly woman who does not understand the new system is taught to use it by her grandson. At 10 am on 15 February itself (and again the following week) BBC1 broadcast 'New Money Day', a 'Merry-go-Round' schools' programme in which puppet maker Peter Firmin and his small friend Muskit encountered different prices and new coins when they went to the shops.\n\nBanks received stocks of the new coins in advance and these were issued to retailers shortly before Decimalisation Day to enable them to give change immediately after the changeover. Banks were closed from 3:30 pm on Wednesday 10 February 1971 to 10:00 am on Monday 15 February, to enable all outstanding cheques and credits in the clearing system to be processed and customers' account balances to be converted from £sd to decimal. In many banks the conversion was done manually, as most bank branches were not yet computerised. February had been chosen for Decimal Day because it was the quietest time of the year for the banks, shops, and transport organisations.\n\nMany items were priced in both currencies for some time before and after. Prior to Decimal Day the double pricing was displayed as e.g. \"1s (5p)\"; from Decimal Day the order was switched to \"5p (1s)\". For example, this order was used on most football programmes during the 1970–71 season. High denomination (10p, 20p, and 50p) stamps were issued on 17 June 1970. Post offices were issued with very simple training stamps in the same colours as the upcoming decimal stamps.\n\nExceptions to the 15 February introduction were British Rail and London Transport, which went decimal one day early, the former urging customers, if they chose to use pennies or threepenny pieces, to pay them in multiples of 6d (p, the lowest common multiple of the two systems). Bus companies (at that time many state-owned by the National Bus Company) were another exception, going decimal on Sunday 21 February.\n\nDecimal Day itself went smoothly. Criticisms included the small size of the new halfpenny coin and the fact that some traders had taken advantage of the transition to raise prices. Some used new pennies as sixpences in vending machines. After 15 February, shops continued to accept payment in old coins, but always issued change in new coins. The old coins were returned to the banks and in this way the bulk of them were quickly taken out of circulation.\n\nThe new halfpenny, penny, and twopence coins were introduced on 15 February 1971. Within two weeks of Decimal Day, the old penny (1d) and old threepenny (3d) coins had left circulation, and old sixpences were becoming rare. On 31 August 1971, the 1d and 3d were officially withdrawn from circulation, ending the transition period.\n\nThe government intended that in speech the new units would be called \"new pence\", but the public decided that it was clearer and quicker to pronounce the new coins as \"pee\". Shortenings such as \"tuppence\" are now rarely heard, and terms such as \"tanner\" (the silver sixpence), which previously designated amounts of money, are no longer used. However, some slang terms, such as \"quid\" and \"bob\", survived from pre-decimal times. Amounts denominated in guineas (21s or £1.05) are reserved for specialist transactions, such as the sale of horses and some auctions.\n\nThe public information campaign over the preceding two years helped, as did the trick of getting a rough conversion of new pence into old shillings and pence by simply doubling the number of new pence and placing a solidus, or slash, between the digits: 17p multiplied by 2 = 34, – approximately equal to 3/4 (\"three and four\", or three shillings and four pence), with a similar process for the reverse conversion. The willingness of a young population to embrace the change also helped. In general, elderly people had more difficulty adapting and the phrase \"How much is that in old money?\" or even \"How much is that in real money?\" became associated with those who struggled with the change. (This phrase is now often used to ask for conversion between metric and imperial weights and measures.)\nAround the time of Decimalisation Day, \"Decimal Adders\" and other converters were available to help people convert between the old and new coins. The following is a table showing conversions between the decimal and pre-decimal systems.\n\nAll pre-decimal coins (except for certain non-circulating coins such as crowns, sovereigns, and double florins which were explicitly excluded from demonetisation) are now no longer legal tender. Public outcry at the proposed demise of the old sixpence (6d), worth exactly p and originally slated for early withdrawal, postponed its withdrawal until June 1980.\n\nShillings and florins, together with their same-sized 5p and 10p coin equivalents, co-existed in circulation as valid currency until the early 1990s. In theory this included coins dating back to 1816; in practice the oldest were dated 1947, when these coins stopped containing silver. The coins were withdrawn when smaller 5p and 10p coins were introduced in 1990 and 1992 respectively.\n\nThe face value of Maundy money coins was maintained, increasing all their face values by a factor of 2.4, as the coins continued to be legal tender as new pence. The numismatic value of each coin, though, greatly exceeds face value.\n\nThe decimal halfpenny (p), introduced in 1971, remained in circulation until 1984, by which time its value had been greatly reduced by inflation. It was not struck, except for collectors' sets, after 1983 (those dated 1984 were struck only as proofs or in Uncirculated Mint Sets) and was demonetised on 31 December 1984. The 50p piece was reduced in size in 1997, following the reduction in size of the 5p in 1990 and the 10p in 1992 (the large versions of each of the three are now demonetised). The 1p and 2p underwent a compositional change from bronze to plated steel in 1992. However, both coins remain valid back to 1971, the only circulating coins valid on Decimal Day still to be valid.\n\nIn 1982, the word \"new\" in \"new penny\" or \"new pence\" was removed from the inscriptions on coins, to be replaced by the number of pence in the denomination (i.e. \"ten pence\" or \"fifty pence\"). This coincided with the introduction of a new 20p coin, which, from the outset, simply bore the legend \"twenty pence\".\n\nA £1 coin was introduced in 1983, and a £2 coin in 1997.\n\nWhen the old pounds, shillings, and pence system was in operation, the United Kingdom and Ireland operated within the Sterling Area, effectively a single monetary area. The Irish pound had come into existence as a separate currency in 1927 with distinct coins and notes, but the terms of the Irish Currency Act obliged the Irish currency commissioners to redeem Irish pounds on a fixed 1:1 basis, and so day-to-day banking operations continued exactly as they had been before the creation of the Irish pound ().\n\nThis state of affairs continued until 1979 when Irish obligations to the European Monetary System forced them to break the historic link with Sterling.\n\nIn Ireland, all pre-decimal coins, except the 1s, 2s and 10s coins, were called in during the initial process between 1969 and 1972; the ten shilling coin, which, as recently issued and in any event equivalent to 50p, was permitted to remain outstanding (though due to silver content, the coin did not circulate). The 1s and 2s were recalled in 1993 and 1994 respectively. Pre-decimal Irish coins may still be redeemed at their face value equivalent in euro at the Central Bank in Dublin.\n\nPre-decimal Irish coins and stamps' values were denoted with Irish language abbreviations (\"scilling\" (\"shilling\", abbreviated \"s\") and \"pingin\" (\"penny\", abbreviated \"p\")) rather than abbreviations derived from the Latin \"solidi\" and \"denarii\" used in other Sterling countries. Irish people and business otherwise used \"£sd\" just as in other countries. Thus prior to decimalisation coins were marked '1p', '3p' etc. rather '1d' and '3d' as in Britain. Low-value Irish postage stamps likewise used 'p' rather than 'd'; so a two-penny stamp was marked '2p' in Ireland rather than '2d' as in the UK. After decimalisation, while British stamps switched from 'd' to 'p', Irish stamps (but not coins) printed the number with no accompanying letter; so a stamp worth 2 new pence was marked '2p' in the UK and simply '2' in Ireland.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32602793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32602793", "title": "Dimensions (2011 film)", "text": "Dimensions (2011 film)\n\nDimensions is a 2011 science fiction-love story film set in the 1920s and 1930s. The film was directed by Sloane U’Ren and written by Ant Neely, who are a married couple. The film is U’Ren’s feature film directorial debut and is also known as \"Dimensions: A Line, A Loop, A Tangle of Threads\".\n\n\"Dimensions\" premiered as part of the 2011 Cambridge Film Festival (U.K.) and outsold, per screen, the U.K. premieres of \"Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy\", \"The Help\" and \"Midnight in Paris\". After the Cambridge screenings, the film underwent a minor re-edit and was finished in early 2012. \"Dimensions\" was voted Best Film 2012 at the 37th Boston Science Fiction Film Festival and awarded the Gort Award. Previous Gort Award winners have included Duncan Jones' \"Moon\". The film went on to win Best Film at the London Independent Film Festival and Best Film at the Long Island International Film Expo. Director Sloane U'Ren was also awarded Best Director at the Long Island International Film Expo.\n\nThe film follows Stephen, a brilliant young scientist who lives in Cambridge, England, in what appears to be the 1920s. His world is turned upside down upon meeting a charismatic and inspirational professor at a garden party, who demonstrates to Stephen and his friends what life would be like if they were one-, or two-dimensional beings. He then proceeds to explain that by manipulating other dimensions, time travel may actually be possible.\n\nSoon after the professor's visit, Stephan,his cousin, Conrad, and his neighbor, Victoria, were fooling around by a well. Conrad throws Victoria's skipping rope down the well. The nanny catches the boys rolling around fighting and drags them in the house by the ears leaving Victoria alone to play outside by herself. After some time, she decides to climb down the well to get her skipping rope. She never climbs out of the well and her body is never found.\n\nAs Stephen’s life unfolds, events lead him to dedicate himself to turning the Professor’s theories of time travel into reality. Jealousy, love, obsession, temptation and greed surround him, influencing his fragile mind and the direction of his work.\n\n\nSloane U'Ren and Ant Neely have worked in the film industry for many years on large Hollywood films and television productions, U'Ren as art director and designer with Neely as a composer and musician. The couple wanted to make their own film for many years and rather than wait for a large studio to invest decided to produce the film independently, Neely said, \"We could wait for someone to come knock on our door and get old waiting, or we could just go and do it.\"\n\nU'Ren and Neely sold their house to help finance the production, a move that caused some media attention in the UK.\n\nPrincipal photography started on 26 July 2010 and ended on 21 August 2010. \"Dimensions\" joins a small but growing list of feature films shot entirely using DSLR cameras, at times the film used three Canon 5D Mk II and a Canon 7D.\n\nThe film was shot entirely in and around Cambridge, England including Downing College, Cambridge University. Sloane U'Ren and Ant Neely, along with almost all of the cast, attended the world premiere: they introduced themselves before the screening, and answered questions about the project and how it was completed afterwards.\n\nThe original score was composed by Neely and recorded at British Grove Studios with the London Metropolitan Orchestra.\n\n"}
{"id": "1041300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1041300", "title": "Ethiopian calendar", "text": "Ethiopian calendar\n\nThe Ethiopian calendar (; \"yä'Ityoṗṗya zëmän aḳoṭaṭär\") is the principal calendar used in Ethiopia and also serves as the liturgical year for Christians in Eritrea and Ethiopia belonging to the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church, Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, Eastern Catholic Churches and Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria. It is a solar calendar which in turn derives from the Egyptian calendar, but like the Julian calendar, it adds a leap day every four years without exception, and begins the year on August 29 or August 30 in the Julian calendar. A gap of 7–8 years between the Ethiopian and Gregorian calendars results from an alternative calculation in determining the date of the Annunciation.\n\nLike the Coptic calendar, the Ethiopic calendar has 12 months of 30 days plus 5 or 6 epagomenal days, which comprise a thirteenth month. The Ethiopian months begin on the same days as those of the Coptic calendar, but their names are in Ge'ez. A 6th epagomenal day is added every 4 years, without exception, on August 29 of the Julian calendar, 6 months before the corresponding Julian leap day. Thus the first day of the Ethiopian year, 1 Mäskäräm, for years between 1900 and 2099 (inclusive), is usually September 11 (Gregorian). However, it falls on September 12 in years before the Gregorian leap year.\n\n\"Enkutatash\" is the word for the Ethiopian New Year in Amharic, the official language of Ethiopia, while it is called \"Ri'se Awde Amet\" (\"Head Anniversary\") in Ge'ez, the term preferred by the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church. It occurs on September 11th in the Gregorian Calendar; except for the year preceding a leap year, when it occurs on September 12th. The Ethiopian Calendar Year 1998 \"Amätä Məhrät\" (\"Year of Mercy\") began on the Gregorian Calendar Year on September 11th, 2005. However, the Ethiopian Years 1992 and 1996 began on the Gregorian Dates of 'September 12th 1999' and '2003' respectively.\n\nThis date correspondence applies for the Gregorian years 1900 to 2099. The Ethiopian leap year is every four without exception, while Gregorian centurial years are only leap years when exactly divisible by 400; thus a set of corresponding dates will most often apply for a single century. As the Gregorian year 2000 is a leap year, the current correspondence lasts two centuries instead.\n<br>\nThe start of the Ethiopian year (Feast of El-Nayrouz) falls on August 29th or 30th (in the year just before the Julian leap year). This date corresponds to the Old-Style Julian Calendar; therefore, the start of the year has been transferred forward in the currently used Gregorian Calendar to September 11th or 12th (in the year just before the Julian leap year). This deviation between the Julian and the Gregorian Calendar will increase with the passing of the time. You can observe the real start date in the future centuries in a Gregorian to Ethiopian Date Converter.\n\nTo indicate the year, Ethiopians and followers of the Eritrean churches today use the \"Incarnation Era\", which dates from the Annunciation or Incarnation of Jesus on March 25, AD 9 (Julian), as calculated by Annianus of Alexandria \"c.\" 400; thus its first civil year began 7 months earlier on August 29, AD 8. Meanwhile, Europeans eventually adopted the calculations made by Dionysius Exiguus in AD 525 instead, which placed the Annunciation 8 years earlier than had Annianus. This causes the Ethiopian year number to be 8 years less than the Gregorian year number from January 1 until September 10 or 11, then 7 years less for the remainder of the Gregorian year.\n\nIn the past, a number of other eras for numbering years were also widely used in Ethiopia and the Kingdom of Aksum.\n\nThe most important era – once widely used by the Eastern Christianity, and still used by the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria – was the Era of Martyrs, also known as the Diocletian Era, or the era of Diocletian and the Martyrs, whose first year began on August 29, 284.\n\nRespective to the Gregorian and Julian New Year's Days, 3 to 4 months later, the difference between the Era of Martyrs and the Anni Domini is 285 years (285= 15×19). This is because in AD 525, Dionysius Exiguus decided to add 15 Metonic cycles to the existing 13 Metonic cycles of the Diocletian Era (15×19 + 13×19 = 532) to obtain an entire 532 year medieval Easter cycle, whose first cycle ended with the year Era of Martyrs 247 (= 13×19) equal to year DXXXI. It is also because 532 is the product of the Metonic cycle of 19 years and the solar cycle of 28 years.\n\nAround AD 400, an Alexandrine monk called Panodoros fixed the Alexandrian Era (Anno Mundi = in the year of the world), the date of creation, on 29 August 5493 BC. After the 6th century AD, the era was used by Egyptian and Ethiopian chronologists. The twelfth 532 year-cycle of this era began on 29 August AD 360, and so 4×19 years after the Era of Martyrs.\n\nBishop Anianos preferred the Annunciation style as New Year's Day, 25 March \"(see above)\". Thus he shifted the Panodoros era by about six months, to begin on 25 March 5492 BC. In the Ethiopian calendar this was equivalent to 15 Magabit 5501 B.C. (E.C.). The Anno Mundi era remained in usage until the late 19th century.\n\nThe 4 year leap-year cycle is associated with the four Evangelists: the first year after an Ethiopian leap year is named the John-year, followed by the Matthew-year, and then the Mark-year. The year with the 6th epagomenal day is traditionally designated as the Luke-year.\n\nThere are no exceptions to the 4 year leap-year cycle, like the Julian calendar but unlike the Gregorian calendar.\n\nThese dates are valid only from March 1900 to February 2100. This is because 1900 and 2100 are not leap years in the Gregorian calendar, while they are still leap years in the Ethiopian calendar, meaning dates before 1900 and after 2100 will be offset.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "459303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459303", "title": "Flag of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines", "text": "Flag of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nThe flag of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines was adopted on 21 October 1985. It is composed of a vertical tricolour of blue, gold (double width) and green with three green diamonds arranged in the V pattern centred on the gold band, which represent the Grenadine Islands which fall under the government of Saint Vincent. These diamonds recall Saint Vincent as the \"gems of the Antilles\". Blue represents the tropical sky and the crystal waters, yellow stands for the golden Grenadine sands, and green stands for the islands' lush vegetation. The diamonds are set low on the yellow band, recalling the nation's location in the Antilles.\n\nThe previous flags had a realistic breadfruit leaf, where the gems are now, emblazoned with the coat of arms of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.\n"}
{"id": "36204723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36204723", "title": "Frederick Nicholas Charrington", "text": "Frederick Nicholas Charrington\n\nFrederick Nicholas Charrington (4 February 1850 – 2 January 1936) was an English social reformer who renounced succession to a fortune of over £1 million in order to devote his life to temperance work.\n\nCharrington was born in the Bow Road, in the East End of London. His father was a partner in the Charrington Brewery, one of London’s biggest brewing companies. Charrington was heir to a fortune of a million and a quarter pounds. He was educated at Marlborough College, but left because of illness and finished his school career at Brighton College. He subsequently joined the family business.\n\nAt the age of 19, Charrington had a conversion experience and became an Evangelical Christian. About a year later, while walking through Whitechapel, he saw a poorly dressed woman with her children begging her husband to leave a public house and give her money for food. The furious husband came out and knocked her into the gutter. Charrington went to help and was also knocked to the ground. Looking up, he saw his name on the sign above the pub.\n\n“When I saw that sign,” he later wrote, “I was stricken just as surely as Paul on the Damascus Road. Here was the source of my family wealth, and it was producing untold human misery before my own eyes. Then and there I pledged to God that not another penny of that money should come to me.”\n\nCharrington abandoned the family business to devote his life to helping the poor in the East End. He opened a school, led a fight to clean up the music halls and became an ardent worker for the Temperance Movement. In 1870 he founded the Tower Hamlets Mission and made the Great Assembly Hall in the Mile End Road a centre of Christian work in the East End of London.\n\nIn 1903 Charrington purchased Osea Island off the coast of Maldon in Essex and established a treatment centre for people with alcohol and opiate addictions. In return for free treatment, clients would remain on the island and work the land.\n\nHe was one of the original members of the London County Council (1889–95).\n\nHe died in the London Hospital in January 1936.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6850363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6850363", "title": "Haikai", "text": "Haikai\n\nHaikai (Japanese 俳諧 \"comic, unorthodox\") may refer in both Japanese and English to \"haikai no renga\" (renku), a popular genre of Japanese linked verse, which developed in the sixteenth century out of the earlier aristocratic renga. It meant \"vulgar\" or \"earthy\", and often derived its effect from satire and puns, though \"under the influence of [Matsuo] Bashō (1644–1694) the tone of haikai no renga became more serious\". \"Haikai\" may also refer to other poetic forms that embrace the haikai aesthetic, including haiku and senryū (varieties of one-verse haikai), haiga (haikai art, often accompanied by haiku), and haibun (haiku mixed with prose, such as in the diaries and travel journals of haiku poets). However, haikai does not include orthodox renga or waka.\n\nMatsuo Bashō is one of the most famous poets of the Edo period and the greatest figure active in Japanese haikai during the latter half of the seventeenth century. He made his life’s work the transformation of haikai into a literary genre. For Bashō, haikai involved a combination of comic playfulness and spiritual depth, ascetic practice and involvement in human society. He composed haikai masterpieces in a variety of genres, including renku, haibun, and haiga. In contrast to the traditional Japanese poetry of his day, Bashō’s haikai treated the ordinary, everyday lives of commoners, portraying figures from popular culture such as the beggar, the traveler and the farmer. In crystallizing the newly popular haikai, he played a significant role in giving birth to modern haiku, which reflected the common culture.\n\nA new group of poets emerged in the mid-1700s who \"condemned the commercialized practices [of] contemporary haikai and argued for a return to the ideals of Matsuo Bashō\". The 18th century reform movement, lasting from around the 1730s to the 1790s came to be called the Bashō Revival. Prominent poets of this movement included Yosa Buson (1716–1783), Miura Chora (1729–1780), Takai Kitō (1741–1789), and Wada Ranzan (d. 1773). \"[O]ther major 'Back to Bashō' poets were Tan Taigi 炭太祇 (1709–1771), Katō Kyōtai 加藤暁台 (1732–1792), Chōmu 蝶夢 (1732–1795), Kaya Shirao 加舎白雄 (1738–1791), and Hori Bakusui (1718-1783). The movement had followers all over the country, due in part to the itinerant habits of many of its members.\" The revival movement members competed with the tentori poets, who neglected the craft of poetry in favor of dazzling readers with wit, \"favor[ing] zoku 俗, the mundane or commonplace, over ga 雅, the elegant and refined\".\n\nIn the late Meiji period, the poet and literary critic Masaoka Shiki (1867–1902) first used the term \"haiku\" for the modern, standalone verses of haikai that Bashō had popularized. Until then, haiku had been called hokku, a term which refers to the first verse in a \"renga\" sequence. Shiki also rediscovered Yosa Buson, a prominent \"Back to Bashō\" poet and painter who died in 1784. Shiki considered Buson a painter in words and a visual poet, and Shiki's writings during the 19th century formed the foundation for the appraisal of Buson’s work in most of the 20th century.\n"}
{"id": "401331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401331", "title": "Index of civics articles", "text": "Index of civics articles\n\nCivics is usually considered a branch of applied ethics. Within any given political tradition or ethical tradition, \"civics\" refers to education in the obligations and the rights of the citizens under that tradition. Topics in civics include:\n\nAbortion, legal and moral issues --\nAdoption --\nAdultery --\nArbitration --\nAnimal Testing --\n\nCrime --\nCivic education --\nCapital punishment --\nConstitution --\n\nDefamation --\nDivorce --\nDental --\n\nEconomics\n\nGood faith --\nGrandisitation\n\nHate speech --\n\nIllegitimacy --\nImmigration --\nIndividual rights --\nInformed consent --\n\nMediation --\nMischief --\nMistake --\nMoral rights --\n\nNatural law --\n\nObscenity --\n\nPaternity --\nPersonal property --\nPolitics--\nProduct liability --\nProperty --\nPublic education--\nPublic domain --\nPublic property --\n\nRights --\nRape --\nReligion --\n\nSanctions (law) --\nSexual harassment --\nSlander --\nSocial control --\n\n"}
{"id": "20856654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20856654", "title": "Instructional simulation", "text": "Instructional simulation\n\nAn instructional simulation, also called an educational simulation, is a simulation of some type of reality (system or environment) but which also includes instructional elements that help a learner explore, navigate or obtain more information about that system or environment that cannot generally be acquired from mere experimentation. Instructional simulations are typically goal oriented and focus learners on specific facts, concepts, or applications of the system or environment.\nToday, most universities make lifelong learning possible by offering a virtual learning environment (VLE). Not only can users access learning at different times in their lives, but they can also immerse themselves in learning without physically moving to a learning facility, or interact face to face with an instructor in real time. Such VLEs vary widely in interactivity and scope. For example, there are virtual classes, virtual labs, virtual programs, virtual library, virtual training, etc.\nResearchers have classified VLE in 4 types:\n\nSimulations of one form or another have been used since the early 1900s as a method for training or training. The United States Defense Modeling and Simulation Coordination Office identifies three main types of simulation: live, virtual, and constructive. Live (live action) and virtual simulations are primarily used for training purposes, whereas a constructive simulation is used to view or predict outcomes like wargaming or stockmarket behavior. Each of these types is based on some reality and is intended to provide the user with a pseudo-experience without the danger, expense, or complexity of real life.\n\nWhile simulations are used for learning and training purposes, noted authors, such as Clark Aldrich and Andy Gibbons (Model-Centered Instruction) suggest that simulations in and of themselves are not instructional. Rather, a simulation only becomes instructional when instructional elements are included that help expose the learner to key parts or concepts of the system or environment. For example, an F-16 simulator is not inherently instructional because it is primarily intended to replicate the F-16 cockpit behavior and the environments the aircraft operates within. The simulator may be used for training purposes, but it requires an instructor or some other external element to identify key learning aspects of the system to the learner.\n\nIn education, simulations have had their use under a number of different names. Ken Jones in the 1980s defined simulations as interactions between people such as role-playing. Others suggest that experiential learning activities like those found in team training or ropes courses are also simulations because they replicate the human decision-making processes groups may display, albeit in a very different environment. These can be considered instructional simulations because the effective use of these simulation types include using instructional elements to help learners focus on key behaviors, concepts or principles.\n\nWith the ever decreasing cost of computing tools, virtual and constructive simulation are being used more and more. Simulation is used more and more in e-learning environments because of improved Web-authoring tools and an increasing demand for performance-based training. As a result, more non-technical personnel are involved designing simulation, a field dominated by engineers and computer scientists.\n\nMost traditional instructional design models have at least four components:\n\nADDIE is an example of an Instructional Systems Design (ISD) model.\n\nWhen designing VLEs more functions need to be considered than in designing traditional learning modalities. The process of virtual learning consists of organizational, quality control, correctional and predictable procedures. For example, the effectiveness of the organization of student self-learning - called the ‘pedagogical and didactical function’ in VLEs, will depend on the following:\n\n\nA widely used format for designing online learning environments is WebQuest. However, there are today on the market newer models for instruction that are more interactive and integrated, such as Project Page, MiniQuest, CuriculumQuest, DecisionQuest.\nReference: Jakes, D. (2003). \"Creating Virtual Workspaces: New Models for Developing Online Curriculum\". teachForum: Breakthrough Technologies for 21st century Schools, Chicago, Illinois. April 29, 2003. Retrieved on 6/28/09: http://www.biopoint.com/ibr/techforum.htm\n\nSince the 1990s, trends such as the performance technology movement, constructivism, Electronic Performance Support Systems, rapid prototyping, increasing use of Internet for distance education/distance learning, and knowledge management endeavors have influenced instructional design practices These changes are producing challenges to existing design models. According to Reigeluth (1996), the education and training field is in the midst of a paradigm shift from the Industrial Revolution to the Information Age, requiring a corresponding shift from standardization to customization of instructional design. Moreover, Gros et al. (1997), posit the inflexibility of traditional linear design processes, calling for a more iterative process, while Winn (1997) and Jonassen et al. criticize the positivist assumptions that learning situations are closed systems, imparting knowledge is the instructor's responsibility, and that human behavior is predictable.\n\nThere are many alternative models that have been proposed as more conducive to the new Information Age paradigm, including new methods of instruction such as instructional gaming and simulations – Jonassen's promotion of hermeneutics, fuzzy logic and chaos theory as bases for ID, Hoffman's use of Reigeleuth's Elaboration Theory and hypermedia,Akilli & Cagiltay's FIDGE model, among others.\n\nHermeneutics emphasizes the importance of socio-historical context in mediating the meanings of individuals creating and decoding texts. Massively multiplayer online learning environments, for example, require new social processes that go well with social constructivist, hermeneutic philosophy and methods. Chaos theory looks for order in chaotic systems, looking for repeating patterns such as fractals. It is useful for non-linear, dynamic situations or for situations where a small change in initial conditions can produce great changes later. Finally, fuzzy logic is based on the idea that reality is rarely bivalent, but rather multivalent – in other words, there are many \"in-between\" values that need to be designed for. Therefore, instructional models should move away from deterministic approaches and design for more probabilistic ways of thinking.\n\nKey aspects of ET are:\n\nHoffman states that \"the Web-like linking that characterizes hypermedia is more alike to the functioning of human cognition than is the traditional linear structure found in much educational programming\", further asserting that \"this kind of model could lead to the possibility of modularity and plasticity, which would bring along the ease to make changes in response to learner needs without changing the overall structure of the product and rapid development.\"\n\nThis model consists of dynamic phases with fuzzy boundaries, through which instructional designers move non-linearly. The main features are:\n\nA virtual world is an interactive 3-D environment where users are immersed in the environment. Users can manipulate the environment and interact with other users. Depending on the degree of immersion, users can begin playing a game, interact with other users, attend seminars, or complete course work for an online class. Online discussion groups and social networks such as Myspace and Facebook are already being used to supplement interaction within coursework (Baker 2009).\n\nSparkle is poised to become the first virtual world for the iPhone. What's more, it's being developed completely from scratch, exclusively as an MMO for the iPhone/iPod Touch. This will bring more mobility to the learner. They will no longer need to be at a desktop.\n\nSecond Life is a virtual world where users create avatars. An avatar is a virtual representation of the user to other users. These avatars then interact with any other user within the Second Life world. Avatars can purchase virtual land, own buildings, and travel, interact, conduct business, and even attend lectures by professors. Second Life is running 24 hours a day and is tied into the Internet, so there are always other avatars to interact with.\n\nMMORPGs such as World of Warcraft and Star Wars Galaxies are video game based virtual environments. These game engines hold the potential for instructional simulation. Unlike Second Life, these are pre-designed games with their own set of objectives that need to be completed through a progression.\n\nIn education, virtual learning environments are simulated experiences which utilize the pedagogical strategies of instructional modeling and role playing for the teaching of new concepts. The environment in which the experiences are presented is a virtual one often accessed via a computer or other video projection interface. Immersive virtual environment headsets have been used with younger children and students with special needs. The advantages of using instructional simulators via VLEs include: students are motivated when they are able to use computers and other technology; VLEs allow for interaction, exploration, and experimentation with locations, objects, and environments that would otherwise be unavailable in the absence of the VLE; instructors can adapt programs and parameters of the virtual learning experience to meet individual learner needs; when multi-user virtual environments are used collaborative and cooperative learning is encouraged; VLEs relate to students the real-world relevance of their learning by extending concepts and skills to application in the simulated environment; and learning can occur in an emotionally and physically safe environment without detrimental consequence.\n\nThe use of instructional simulation with individuals with special needs is gaining more attention. Mitchell, Parsons, and Leonard (2007) created a \"Virtual Café\" program designed to teach social interaction skills to adolescents with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The program provides feedback to guide, or scaffold, the user toward making appropriate social behavior decisions. Virtual learning environments are also beginning to be used to teach children with ASD how to respond in potentially dangerous situations such as crossing the street and evacuating a building on fire (Strickland, McAllister, Coles, and Osborne 2007). The instructional simulation provides a safe environment within which to practice appropriate response skills.\n\nDistance learning is growing. The importance of a physical classroom is being reduced as the technology of distance learning develops (Sanders, 2006). Sanders (2006) present a warning that students may do well in distance learning environments, however they need to have engaging moments within the course. He also warns students to critically assess a new technology before adopting it as a learning tool. The virtual learning environment needs to simulate the learning process, using goals and objectives to measure the learners’ achievement. Sanders (2006) uses movies like \"\", \"The Matrix\", and \"I, Robot\" as callbacks to allegorical warnings of potential mishaps of relying too much on technology. He presents possible ways to balance a distance course so that it can effectively simulate a learning environment.\n\nBarney, Bishop, Adlong, and Bedgood (2009) studied the use of a 3D virtual laboratory as a tool to familiarize distance learning chemistry students with an actual chemistry laboratory. While it was not incorporated into the initial study, the researchers suggest including instructional scaffolding experiences to help alleviate students’ anxieties with applying mathematics and chemistry concepts in the actual laboratory setting (Barney, Bishop, Adlong, and Bedgood 2009). The virtual laboratory does not replace the real-world experience, rather it helps to enhance the student's schema of a chemistry laboratory and prepare them for performance expectations in the actual environment.\nWeb-based virtual science laboratories are also used with elementary school students. In their study, Sun, Lin, and Yu (2008) found that students who used a web-based virtual science laboratory in conjunction with traditional teaching methods not only found the learning experience more enjoyable, they also performed better academically and received higher grades.\n\nBaker (2009) suggests multi-user virtual environments or MUVEs have the potential to engage students. Second Life holds more of a purpose in interaction (Baker, 2009). Instructors can hold lectures; students can collaborate through chat in Second Life. When compared to a discussion board, Second Life is a viable alternative for distance learning students to develop group work skills. At Chesapeake High School in Baltimore County, Maryland, students explore the ecological environment surrounding Mt. St. Helens via a 3D virtual learning environment (Curriculum Review 2009). Students navigate through the environment with a virtual unmanned vehicle and work collaboratively to solve ecological and environmental problems that are built into the program for instructional purposes. Engaging in the VLE provides many opportunities for application, data collection, and problem solving.\n\nSokolowski classifies medical simulations in 3 categories: 1. Simulators based on physical models, usually referred to as the Human Patient Simulator (HPS), of which several prototype exist for different purposes (CentraLine Man, Noelle and Pediasim mannequins); 2. Virtual Reality training simulators based on computers – i.e. LapVR Surgical Simulator, and Suture Tutor; 3. a hybrid model of the first two kinds combines a realistic 3D computerized representation of an organ system, for example, with the ability to interface with it through haptic devices.\n\nThe use of simulation-based learning in the medical field has many benefits, including patient safety, accelerating diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, unfulfilled demand for medical personnel, medical cost reduction and lowering of medical errors that amount to loss of life and associated costs. The use of current technologies allow for very high fidelity simulations. These include Immersive Virtual Environments (IVEs)- computer based 3D environments known as serious games, and other very highly immersive virtual environments, such as Cave Automatic Virtual environment(CAVE),in which the student sits in a projection room wearing goggles and gloves equipped with sensors. This \"haptic\" technology activates the sense of touch, allowing the trainee to interface with a simulated patient, as well as to receive visual and auditory feedbacks, making the simulated learning experience very realistic.\n\nAccording to research, the best instructional simulators, medical or otherwise, contain these elements:\n\nImmersive Virtual Environments (IVEs) in medical education range from teaching simple skills (taking a patient's blood) to complex skills (internal surgery). Different medical care providers use simulations for different purposes: emergency medical technicians, medics involved in combat environments, nurses, doctors, surgeons and medical First Responders in. IVEs simulate the human body so as to provide the student or trainee with the opportunity to realistically practice and thus become proficient as to the particular technique to be taught.\nIVEs are commonly used when teaching patient examination, surgical procedures and assessment (individual and collaborative). Students are relieved to know that these simulations are practice and appreciate the opportunity to make mistakes now rather than later. The use of IVEs provides a controlled, safe environment for students to learn and so the anxiety factor is reduced. Students can discuss the symptoms more openly than they could with an actual patient. At the same time, however, students use all the protocol they would with a real patient. That means they introduce themselves, address the patients by name and respect their privacy.\n\nThe use of the simulation saves lives and money by reducing medical errors, training time, operating room time and the need to replace expensive equipment. Simulation users may practice on a variety of patients, each of which has a different case history, exhibits unique symptoms, and responds to user actions with appropriate physiological responses. As in real life, patient anatomy moves with the beating of the heart and the breathing of the lungs while tissues deform, bruise and bleed. The system generates a detailed evaluation after each session, enabling users and supervisors to measure the success of simulated procedures.\n\nSimulations in medicine have been in use as early as the 16th century when the use of training mannequins helped to reduce the high maternal and infant mortality rates. Today they have evolved, to include IVEs, CAVE, robotic surgery, etc., but they are still relatively limited in their use by the health industry.\nMedicine is a profession that uses very advanced technical, high risk, as well as behavioral skills. However, unlike other areas with similar requirements (such as aviation), medicine has not totally embraced the use of simulations to assist with necessary medical training. The limited use of simulations for training in the medical field can be explained by several factors, including cost control, relatively limited modeling of the human body, lack of scientific evidence of effectiveness, and resistance to change by professional in the field. (Ziv, et al. 2003). A later study, conducted by Amalberti et al.(2005), points to 5 systemic structural barriers to the use of simulators to advance medical training. These are:\nThe existence of these barriers leads to a lower rate of patient safety, and prevent the health industry to come closer to the goal of \"ultrasafe performance,\" already achieved by the civil aviation and the nuclear power industries \n\n"}
{"id": "14726370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14726370", "title": "Jazz drumming", "text": "Jazz drumming\n\nJazz drumming is the art of playing percussion (predominantly the drum set, which includes a variety of drums and cymbals) in jazz styles ranging from 1910s-style Dixieland jazz to 1970s-era jazz fusion and 1980s-era Latin jazz. The techniques and instrumentation of this type of performance have evolved over several periods, influenced by jazz at large and the individual drummers within it. Stylistically, this aspect of performance was shaped by its starting place, New Orleans, as well as numerous other regions of the world, including other parts of the United States, the Caribbean, and Africa.\n\nJazz required a method of playing percussion different from traditional European styles, one that was easily adaptable to the different rhythms of the new genre, fostering the creation of jazz drumming's hybrid technique. As each period in the evolution of jazz—swing and bebop, for example—tended to have its own rhythmic style, jazz drumming continued to evolve along with the music through the 20th century. One tendency that emerged over time was the gradual \"freeing\" of the beat. But older styles persisted in later periods. The borders between these periods are unclear, partly because no one style completely replaced others, and partly because there were numerous cross influences between styles.\n\nThe rhythms and use of percussion in jazz, as well as the art form itself, were products of extensive cultural mixing in various locations. The earliest occasion when this occurred was the Moorish invasion of Europe, where the cultures of France, Spain, and Africa to some extent, encountered each other and most likely exchanged some cultural information. The influence of African music and rhythms on the general mix that created jazz was profound, though this influence did not appear until later.\n\nThere are several central qualities shared by African music and jazz, most prominently the importance of improvisation. Some instrumental qualities from African music that appear in jazz (especially its drumming) include using unpitched instruments to produce specific musical tones or tone-like qualities, using all instruments to imitate the human voice, superimposition of one rhythmic structure onto another (e.g., a group of three against a group of two), dividing a regular section of time (called a measure in musical terms) into groups of two and three, and the use of repetitive rhythms used throughout a musical piece, often called clave rhythms. This last quality is one of special importance, as there are several pronounced occurrences of this pattern and the aesthetics that accompany it in the world of jazz.\n\nClave is a tool for keeping time and determining which beats in a composition should be accented. In Africa, the clave is based on division of the measure into groups of three, on which only a few beats are emphasized. The Cuban clave, derived from the African version, is composed of two measures, one with three beats, one with two. The measures can be played in either order, with either the two or three beat phrase coming first, and are labeled \"2-3\" or \"3-2\", respectively.\n\nWithin the jazz band, phrases known as \"comping patterns\" have included elements of the clave since the very early days of the music. Comping is support of other musicians, often soloists, and echoing or reinforcement of the composition.\n\nThe culture that created the most commonly used version of this pattern was that of Cuba. The circumstances that created that music and culture were very similar to those that created jazz; French, African, Spanish, and native Cuban cultures were all combined in Cuba and created many popular musical forms as well as the clave, which was a rather early invention. The music also affected the development of a variant of jazz, known as Latin jazz.\n\nLatin jazz is generally characterized by the use of even note combinations, as opposed to the \"swung\" notes common in most other varieties of jazz. It is also heavily influenced by the clave, and composers of the music require a knowledge of the workings of percussion in Afro-Cuban music—the instruments must combine with each other in a logical fashion. The specific genre of Afro-Cuban jazz is influenced by the traditional rhythms of Cuba, rather than from the entire Caribbean and other parts of the world.\n\nThe military drumming of America, predominantly fife and drum corps, in the 19th century and earlier supplied much of the technique and instrumentation of the early jazz drummers. Influential players like Warren \"Baby\" Dodds and Zutty Singleton used the traditional military drumstick grip, military instruments, and played in the style of military drummers using rudiments, a group of short patterns which are standard in drumming. The rhythmic composition of this music was also important in early jazz and beyond. Very different from the African performance aesthetic, a flowing style which does not directly correspond to Western time signatures, the music played by military bands was rigidly within time and metric conventions, though it did have compositions in both duple and triple meter.\n\nThe equipment of the drummers in these groups was of particular significance in the development of early drum sets. Cymbals, bass, and snare drums were all used. Indeed, a method of damping a set of cymbals by crunching them together while playing bass drum simultaneously is probably how today's hi-hat, a major part of today's drum set, came about. Military technique and instrumentation were undoubtedly factors in the development of early jazz and its drumming, but the melodic and metric elements in jazz are more easily traced to the dance bands of the time period.\n\nBlack drummers were able to acquire their technical ability from fife and drum corps, but the application of these techniques in the dance bands of the 19th century allowed a more fertile ground for musical experimentation. Slaves learned traditional European dance music that they played at their masters' balls, most importantly a French dance called the quadrille, which had a particular influence on jazz and by extension jazz drumming. Musicians were also able to play dances that originated in Africa and the Caribbean in addition to the European repertoire. One such dance was the \"congo\". The performers of this novel music (to the predominantly white audience) created music for their own entertainment and uses as well.\n\nSlaves in America had many musical traditions that became important to the music of the country, particularly jazz. After work was done, these people would hold musical performances in which they played on pseudo-instruments made of washtubs and other objects newly used for musical purposes, and also played rhythms on their bodies, called \"pattin' juba\". The only area that slaves were allowed to perform their music, other than private locations, was a place in New Orleans called Congo Square.\n\nThe former Africans were able to play their traditional music, which started to intermingle with the sounds of the many other cultures in New Orleans at the time: Haitian, European, Cuban, and American, as well as many other smaller denominations. They used drums almost indistinguishable from those made in Africa, though the rhythms were somewhat different from those of the songs of the regions the slaves were from, probably the result of their having lived in America for several generations. A large number of musicians that played in Congo Square were from the Caribbean as well.\n\nAnother important influence to jazz was the blues, an expression of the hardships experienced daily by slaves, in direct contrast to the work song, a celebration of work. Its musical inspiration came from where its players did, Africa. The rhythmic form of blues was a basis for many developments that would appear in jazz. Though its instrumentation was mostly limited to melodic instruments and a singer, feeling and rhythm were tremendously important. The two primary feels were a pulse on alternating beats that we see in countless other forms of American music, and the shuffle, which is essentially the pattin' juba rhythm, a feel based on a division of three rather than two.\n\nOne of the final influences on the development of early jazz, specifically its drumming and rhythms, was Second line drumming. The term \"Second line\" refers to the literal second line of musicians that would often congregate behind a marching band playing at a funeral march or Mardi Gras celebration. There were usually two main drummers in the second line: bass drum and snare drum players. The rhythms played were improvisatory in nature, but similarity between what was played at various occasions came essentially to a point of consistency, and early jazz drummers were able to integrate patterns from this style into their playing as well as elements from several other styles.\n\nBefore jazz came to prominence, drummers often played in a style known as ragtime, where an essential rhythmic quality of jazz first really began to be used: syncopation. Syncopation is synonymous with being \"off-beat\", and it is, among many things, a result of placing African rhythms written in odd combinations of notes (e.g., 3+3+2) into the evenly divided European metric concept. Ragtime was another style derived from black musicians playing European instruments, specifically the piano, but using African rhythms.\n\nThe first true jazz drummers had a somewhat limited palette to draw on, despite their broad range of influence. Military rudiments and beats in the military style were essentially the only technique that they had at their disposal. However, it was necessary to adapt to the particular music being played, so new technique and greater musicianship evolved. The roll was the major technical device used, and one significant pattern was simply rolling on alternate beats. This was one of the first \"ride patterns\", a series of rhythms that eventually resulted in a beat that functions in jazz as the clave does in Cuban music: a \"mental metronome\" for the other members of the ensemble. Warren \"Baby\" Dodds, one of the most famous and important of the second generation of New Orleans jazz drummers, stressed the importance of drummers playing something different behind every chorus. His style was regarded as overly busy by some of the older generation of jazz musicians such as Bunk Johnson.\n\nBeneath the constant rhythmic improvisation, Dodds played a pattern that was only somewhat more sophisticated than the basic one/three roll, but was, in fact, identical to the rhythm of today, only inverted. The rhythm was as follows: two \"swung\" eighth notes (the first and third notes of an eighth note triplet), a quarter note, and then a repeat of the first three beats (sound sample \"Inverted ride pattern\" at right). Aside from these patterns, a drummer from this time would have an extremely small role in the band as a whole. Drummers seldom soloed, as was the case with all other instruments in earliest jazz, which was based heavily on the ensemble. When they did, the resultant performance sounded more like a marching cadence than personal expression. Most other rhythmic ideas came from ragtime and its precursors, like the dotted eighth note series.\n\nThe drummers and the rhythms they played served as accompaniment for dance bands, which played ragtime and various dances, with jazz coming later. It was common in these bands to have two drummers, one playing snare drum, the other bass. Eventually, however, due to various factors (not the least of which being the financial motivation), the number of drummers was reduced to one, and this created the need for a percussionist to play multiple instruments, hence the drum set. The first drum sets also began with military drums, though various other accessories were added later in order to create a larger range of sounds, and also for novelty appeal.\n\nThe most common of the accoutrements were the wood block, Chinese tom-toms (large, two-headed drums), cowbells, cymbals, and almost anything else the drummer could think of adding. The characteristic sound of this set-up could be described as \"ricky-ticky\": the noise of sticks hitting objects that have very little resonance. However, drummers, including Dodds, centralized much of their playing on the bass and snare drums. By the 1920s and '30s, the early era of jazz was ending, and swing drummers like Gene Krupa, Chick Webb, and Buddy Rich began to take the bases laid down by the early masters and experiment with them. It was not until a bit later, however, that the displays of technical virtuosity by these men were replaced by definite change in the underlying rhythmic structure and aesthetic of jazz, moving on to an era called bebop.\n\nTo a small extent in the swing era, but most strongly in the bebop period, the role of the drummer evolved from an almost purely time-keeping position to that of a member of the interactive musical ensemble. Using the clearly defined ride pattern as a base, which was brought from the previous rough quality to the smooth, flowing rhythm we know today by \"Papa\" Jo Jones, as well as a standardized drum set, drummers were able to experiment with comping patterns and subtleties in their playing. One such innovator was Sidney \"Big Sid\" Catlett. His many contributions included comping with the bass drum, playing \"on top of the beat\" (imperceptibly speeding up), playing \"with\" the soloist instead of just accompanying him, playing solos of his own with many melodic and subtle qualities, and incorporating melodicism into all of his playing. Another influential drummer of bebop was Kenny Clarke, the man who switched the four beat pulse that had previously been played on the bass drum to the ride cymbal, effectively making it possible for comping to move forward in the future. Once again, this time in the late 1950s and most of the '60s, drummers began to change the entire basis of their art. Elvin Jones, in an interview with \"Down Beat\" magazine, described it as \"a natural step\".\n\nDuring this time, the drummer took on an even more influential role in the jazz group at large, and started to free the drums into a more expressive instrument, allowing them to attain more equality and interactivity with the other parts of the ensemble. In bebop, comping and keeping time were two completely different requirements of the drummer, but afterward, the two became one entity. This newfound fluidity greatly extended the improvisatory capabilities that the drummer had. The feel in jazz drumming of this period was called \"broken time\", which gets its name from the idea of changing patterns and the quick, erratic, unconventional movements and rhythms.\n\nRhythm sections, in particular those of John Coltrane and Miles Davis, the former including Elvin Jones; the latter, Tony Williams, Philly Joe Jones, and Jimmy Cobb, were also exploring new metric and rhythmic possibilities. The concept of manipulating time, making the music appear to slow down or race ahead, was something that drummers had never attempted previously, but one that was evolving quickly in this era. Layering rhythms on top of each other (a polyrhythm) to create a different texture in the music, as well as using odd combinations of notes to change feeling, would never have been possible with the stiffness of drumming in the previous generation. Compositions from this new period required this greater element of participation and creativity on the part of the drummer.\n\nElvin Jones, a member of John Coltrane's quartet, developed a novel style based on a feeling of three partly due to the fact that Coltrane's pieces of the time were based on triple subdivision. Also, because of the greater space in this new style both rhythmically and harmonically, greater experimentation was much easier to attain. Musicians were not encumbered by as many aspects of bebop, like the extremely high tempos and quick chord changes.\n\nThroughout the history of jazz drumming, the beat and playing of the drummer have become progressively more fluid and \"free\", and in avant-garde and free jazz, this movement was largely fulfilled. A drummer named Sunny Murray is the primary architect of this new approach to drumming. Instead of playing a \"beat\", Murray sculpts his improvisation around the idea of a pulse, and plays with the \"natural sounds that are in the instrument, and the pulsations that are in that sound”. Murray also notes that his creation of this style was due to the need for a newer kind of drumming to use in the compositions of pianist Cecil Taylor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34364647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34364647", "title": "Jones Family", "text": "Jones Family\n\nThe Jones Family film series is seventeen 20th Century Fox second feature family comedies produced between 1936 and 1940.\n\nSomewhat similar to the mildly comic tone of MGM's \"Andy Hardy\" and Columbia Pictures \"Blondie\" films, the Joneses started as the Evanses, before the focus shifted and the formula was set. Jed Prouty played Mr. Jones, Spring Byington portrayed Mrs. Jones, veteran actress Florence Roberts was Grandma, Kenneth Howell was Jack, George Ernest was Roger, June Carlson was Lucy and Billy Mahan was Bobby in every film, with one exception: Prouty did not appear in the final entry. Bonnie was played by June Lang in the initial \"Every Saturday Night\", Shirley Deane in ten films and Joan Valerie in the second-to-last one.\n\nThe directors were Malcolm St. Clair, Herbert I. Leeds, James Tinling and Frank R. Strayer. Gags and the story line for \"The Jones Family in Hollywood\" and \"Quick Millions\" were written by Buster Keaton, briefly moonlighting from MGM for his friend St. Clair.\n\nRepublic Pictures launched their own competing film series of mild family comedies, the Higgins Family. It was the subject of nine movies from 1939 through 1941, most featuring actor James Gleason, his real-life wife Lucile Gleason and their son Russell.\n\n"}
{"id": "9548656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9548656", "title": "Koro Toro", "text": "Koro Toro\n\nKoro Toro is an anthropological and an archaeological site located in southern Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti Region in Chad. It is the location in which the fossil hominin \"Australopithecus bahrelghazali\" was discovered in January 1995.\n"}
{"id": "25603125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25603125", "title": "Lienzo charro", "text": "Lienzo charro\n\nA lienzo charro is an arena where charros hold the events of \"charreada\", \"torneo de colas\" and bull riding. \n\nA \"lienzo\" has two areas: one and a second, circular area in diameter. \"Charreada\" is a team competition in which teams go head-to-head to win points in different competitions. The team with the most points at the end wins. The \"torneo de colas\", also known as the \"coleadero\", is a multi- or single-competitor event in which a mounted \"charro\" throws a bull to the ground by catching its tail, wrapping it under his leg, and making a turn. The \"lienzo charro\" may be enclosed to accommodate bull-riding competitions. \n\n \n"}
{"id": "34957675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34957675", "title": "List of environmental social science journals", "text": "List of environmental social science journals\n\nThis is a list of articles about academic journals in environmental social science.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16436786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16436786", "title": "List of horticulture and gardening books/publications", "text": "List of horticulture and gardening books/publications\n\nThis list of horticulture and gardening books includes notable gardening books and journals, which can to aid in research and for residential gardeners in planning, planting, harvesting, and maintaining gardens. Gardening books encompass a variety of subjects from garden design, vegetable gardens, perennial gardens, to shade gardens. Every plant genus or category of plants may also be covered including roses, clematis, bulbs, hellebores, and hydrangeas. The Internet has expanded and enhanced the availability of gardening resources. Online plant databases, photographic collections, as well as detailed articles and blogs greatly add to the range and depth of home gardening information.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53709218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53709218", "title": "Lists of food and beverage topics", "text": "Lists of food and beverage topics\n\nThis article itemizes the various lists of food and beverage topics. Some of these lists link to hundreds of articles; some link only to a few.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23550896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23550896", "title": "Meu Testamento", "text": "Meu Testamento\n"}
{"id": "36802244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36802244", "title": "No Easy Day", "text": "No Easy Day\n\nNo Easy Day: The Firsthand Account of the Mission that Killed Osama bin Laden (2012) is a military memoir by a former member of the United States Naval Special Warfare Development Group (DEVGRU) who participated in the mission that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden. The book was written by Matt Bissonnette under the pen name Mark Owen. It details Owen's career with DEVGRU, including several combat missions in which he participated with the unit. At least half of the book focuses on Owen's participation in the mission that killed bin Laden.\n\nOwen and his publisher's decision to release the book without first submitting it for United States Department of Defense (DoD) review generated controversy. The DoD claims that the book contains classified information, which the book's publisher denies. In late August 2012, advance publicity drove the book to the top of the Amazon.com and Barnes&Noble.com best-seller lists and increased the initial print run from 300,000 copies to 575,000. This ultimately led the publisher to release the book on September 4, a week earlier than the originally planned September 11 release date. It also made the \"New York Times\" bestseller list.\n\nShortly after the book's announcement, Owen's identity was revealed as Matt Bissonnette and the DoD confirmed that he was in fact the author. For media appearances, including an interview on \"60 Minutes\", Owen appeared incognito. In August 2016, he was ordered to return his royalties of US$6.8 million to the US federal government.\n\nIn the book, Owen chronicles his upbringing in Alaska and his long desire to be a SEAL. He recounts the rigors of his entry into DEVGRU and describes several operations in which he participated with the group in Iraq and Afghanistan. Owen also discusses his involvement in the \"Maersk Alabama\" hijacking rescue operation. Throughout, he describes the camaraderie, professionalism, and dedication of his teammates during extremely demanding training and dangerous combat missions.\n\nThe second half of the book details Owen's participation in the raid that targeted bin Laden. Owen writes that he was one of the team members present in the third-floor room of bin Laden's compound when the terrorist leader was killed.\n\nIn the months following the mission, Owen retired and began writing the book with the journalist Kevin Maurer. Owen says the book accurately portrays DEVGRU's relationship and involvement with Operation Neptune Spear.\n\nThe book was published by Dutton Penguin and went on sale September 4, 2012, a week before the eleventh anniversary of the September 11 attacks. Owen stated that most of the proceeds from the book will be donated to families of SEALs killed in action.\n\nIn early September 2012, a former SEAL named Brandon Webb stated that he learned of Owen's intent to write the book after a \"slight\" from the U.S. Navy shortly before he separated from the service. According to Webb, when Owen told his comrades on SEAL Team Six of his intent to leave the service, he was ostracized by his leadership and ordered to return to his home base while his unit was in the middle of a training exercise. The book's publisher disputed Webb's account, repeating co-author Maurer's statement that,\nAfter spending several very intense months working with Mark Owen on this book, I know that he wrote this book solely to share a story about the incredible men and women defending America all over the world. Any suggestion otherwise is as ill-informed as it is inaccurate.\n\nBefore the book was released, DoD press secretary George E. Little stated that the book had yet to be evaluated for sensitive information that could potentially jeopardize national security. Lieutenant Colonel James Gregory of the DoD stated that, should the book contain specialized information about SEAL weapons and tactics, Owen could potentially be charged with a criminal offense. Christine Ball of Dutton Penguin stated that the contents of the book were vetted by a former special operations attorney and that sensitive content would not be an issue.\n\nOn August 25, 2012, members of al Qaeda spread Owen's personal information, calling for militants to exact revenge upon him, identifying him as the one responsible for the death of bin Laden.\n\nOn August 30, 2012, the Pentagon announced that it was considering legal action against the former U.S. Navy SEAL for material breach of non-disclosure agreements with his first-hand account of the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. The DoD chief counsel at the time, Jeh Johnson, sent Owen a letter threatening him with legal action to pressure him and his publisher to withdraw the book from release until it could be vetted by the DoD. According to the DoD, Owen had signed a Classified Information Non-Disclosure Agreement and a 2007 Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) Nondisclosure Statement that requires pre-publication security review under certain circumstances. Owen's lawyer, Robert D. Luskin, responded that the non-disclosure statements only require review of items that touch certain, highly classified programs, and Owen's book does not meet that description.\n\nIn an e-book, \"No Easy Op: The Unclassified Analysis of the Book Detailing the Killing of OBL\", Webb and other ex-SEALs state that Owen would have been \"best served\" by submitting the book for official review before its release, but understand his decision not to. Said the \"No Easy Op\" authors,\nIt has been our experience as writers that DOD reviews are painfully long and typically are more concerned with removing information that might make senior leadership look bad than with ensuring operational security [OPSEC]. Such a review would have come with intense scrutiny and put the integrity of the story at risk. In October 2012, the DoD informed Stanley A. McChrystal that its security review of his forthcoming memoir, \"My Share of the Task\", which had been under DoD review for 22 months, was not yet complete. The book's publisher was forced to postpone the book's release from its previously planned publication date of November 12, 2012.\n\nOn September 5, 2012, Pentagon officials stated that Owen revealed classified information in the book and it could endanger other special operations servicemen. Department of Defense Press Secretary George Little told reporters the department \"believe[s] that sensitive and classified information is contained in the book\" and called its publication without review the \"height of irresponsibility.\"\n\nIn the book, Owen mentions several SEAL-related charities and asks readers to consider donating to those organizations. On September 5, 2012, one of the organizations, the Navy SEAL Foundation, stated that it would refuse to accept any donations related to the book or associated activities. Unnamed retired SEAL officers interviewed by the \"Washington Times\" stated that, in their opinion, the book does not contain classified information. The officers stated that they expected the SEAL community to shun Owen, because he broke the informal code of silence that DEVGRU members traditionally adhere to.\n\n\"The Atlantic\" speculated in October 2012 that Owen and his publisher skipped a Pentagon review of their manuscript because they wanted to beat Mark Bowden's forthcoming book on the bin Laden raid, \"The Finish\", to market. According to Bowden, when he contacted Owen seeking an interview in \"late summer\" 2011, Owen asked him when Bowden's book would be published. Bowden said that he found it a little \"cheap\" and \"cheesy\" that Owen purposely planned to beat him to market while also taking a pen name, \"Mark Owen\", that is similar to his name, Mark Bowden. Bowden added,\nTo be honest, I hope he sells a million copies. I honestly think he is an American hero. Here’s a guy who spent ten years fighting these wars, and if anybody deserves to sell a lot of books, it’s him. I wish him well. I’m glad to have had the input [of his book]. I would rather have had it directly myself, but I completely understand why he did it the way he did.\n\nIn November 2012, it was revealed that seven SEALs recruited by Owen had been disciplined for revealing classified information to a video game company. Owen recruited seven of his former SEAL members to serve as paid consultants where they revealed details. All failed to notify their commanding officer and go through the proper channels; they revealed specifics, including showing their equipment to the game makers. They received a letter of reprimand, called \"a career killer\" making them unable to receive promotions, and had their wages cut for two months.\n\nIn November 2014, Owen sued his lawyer for $8 million, arguing the attorney improperly advised him that he did not need to have the manuscript reviewed by DoD. Owen revealed that his failure to have the book reviewed caused him to settle with the government by forfeiting $4.5 million, loss of his security clearance (and future consultant work), loss of the movie rights, and damage to his reputation.\n\nIn 2014, he published a follow-up, \"No Hero: The Evolution of a Navy SEAL\", which was vetted by the DoD, but is still under investigation by the government.\n\nIn August 2016, Bissonnette was ordered to pay back his royalties of US$6.8 million to the US government.\n\nKim Curtis of the Associated Press stated that the book's strengths were its cast of characters including Owen, and its \"remarkably intimate glimpse into what motivates men striving to join an elite fighting force like the SEALs—and what keeps them there\". She compliments the book's \"breathlessly paced, inexorable march toward an inevitable ending\".\n\nDexter Filkins, journalist and Pulitzer Prize finalist, wrote positively about the book, but described the end as giving off \"a tacky feel\". He explains \"Owen suggests that he doesn’t think much of President Obama, doesn’t have much respect for the civilians who ordered the raid and believes, more or less, that anyone in war who doesn’t carry a gun is a wimp\". Owen \"seems to resent the fact that Obama took credit for the raid and at one point even resisted signing a framed flag for him, on the now-preposterous grounds that he didn’t want his identity revealed\". Filkins concludes: \"This is the carping of a warrior with little appreciation of what his country actually stands for—like that messy thing called democratic politics. After all, he’s just a killing machine\".\n\nTony Perry of the \"Los Angeles Times\" called the book an \"important historical document\" and \"brisk and compelling in its telling of the training, execution and immediate aftermath of the bin Laden mission by the elite SEAL Team 6.\" He noted that Owen's efforts to protect his fellow SEALs' identities introduced some \"blandness\" into his story.\n\nJanet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" described the book as an \"exciting, suspenseful account\" of how Owen trained for the bin Laden and other, potentially dangerous missions. Maslin added that the book's details of certain aspects of the bin Laden raid were \"shocking and revelatory\".\n\nGary Anderson wrote for \"The Washington Times\" that the book's \"author and his co-writer have done what they set out to do. They give a feel for the sights, sounds and emotions of the raid and how the special operations forces of the United States train for and plan such operations.\" Anderson says that he has a \"problem\" with the author's decision to write the book, saying, \"open-source information about special operations set out in this way puts our troops and their missions in danger.\"\n\nOn September 13, 2012, the book replaced \"Fifty Shades of Grey\" atop \"USA Today's\" bestselling books list. Dutton Penguin stated that the book's print run for its first week of sales was up to 1 million copies, not counting e-books. \"USA Today\" stated that hardback versions were outselling e-versions.\n\nAlthough Owen was rumored to be in talks with DreamWorks and Steven Spielberg to turn the book into an action movie, a representative for DreamWorks and Spielberg said the director does not have any plans to make the book into a movie.\n"}
{"id": "2511306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2511306", "title": "Nosegay", "text": "Nosegay\n\nA nosegay, posy, or tussie-mussie is a small flower bouquet, typically given as a gift. They have existed in some form since at least medieval times, when they were carried or worn around the head or bodice. Doilies are traditionally used to bind the stems in these arrangements. Alternatively, \"posy holders\", available in a variety of shapes and materials (although often silver), enable the wearing of these arrangements \"at the waist, in the hair, or secured with a brooch\".\n\nThe term \"nosegay\" arose in fifteenth-century Middle English as a combination of \"nose\" and \"gay\" (the latter then meaning \"ornament\"). So a \"nosegay\" was an ornament that appeals to the nose or nostril.\n\nThe term ' (also ') comes from the reign of Queen Victoria (1837–1901), when the small bouquets became a popular fashion accessory. Typically, tussie-mussies include floral symbolism from the language of flowers, and therefore may be used to send a message to the recipient. In modern times the term specifically refers to small bouquets in a conical metal holder, or the holder itself, particularly when used at a white wedding.\n\n"}
{"id": "273303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273303", "title": "Patera", "text": "Patera\n\nIn the material culture of classical antiquity, a phiale or patera () is a shallow ceramic or metal libation bowl. It often has a bulbous indentation (\"omphalos\", \"bellybutton\") in the center underside to facilitate holding it, in which case it is sometimes called a mesomphalic phiale. It typically has no handles, and no feet. (A drinking cup with handles is a \"kylix\". A circular platter with a pair of C-handles is not a \"patera\", but a few \"paterae\" have single long straight handles.) Although the two terms may be used interchangeably, particularly in the context of Etruscan culture, \"phiale\" is more common in reference to Greek forms, and \"patera\" in Roman settings.\n\nLibation was a central and vital aspect of ancient Greek religion, and one of the simplest and most common forms of religious practice. It is one of the basic religious acts that define piety in ancient Greece, dating back to the Bronze Age and even prehistoric Greece. Libations were a part of daily life, and the pious might perform them every day in the morning and evening, as well as to begin meals. A libation most often consisted of mixed wine and water, but could also be unmixed wine, honey, oil, water, or milk.\n\nThe form of libation called \"spondē\" is typically the ritualized pouring of wine from a jug or bowl held in the hand. The most common ritual was to pour the liquid from an \"oinochoē\" (wine jug) into a \"phiale\". Libation generally accompanied prayer. The Greeks stood when they prayed, either with their arms uplifted, or in the act of libation with the right arm extended to hold the \"phiale\". After the wine offering was poured from the \"phiale\", the remainder of the contents was drunk by the celebrant.\n\nIn Roman art, the libation is shown performed at an altar, \"mensa\" (sacrificial meal table), or tripod. It was the simplest form of sacrifice, and could be a sufficient offering by itself. The introductory rite (\"praefatio\") to an animal sacrifice included an incense and wine libation onto a burning altar. Both emperors and divinities are frequently depicted, especially on coins, pouring libations from a \"patera\". Scenes of libation and the \"patera\" itself commonly signify the quality of \"pietas\", religious duty or reverence.\n\nIn architecture, oval features on plaster friezes on buildings may be called \"paterae\" (plural).\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "43118228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43118228", "title": "Picture hat", "text": "Picture hat\n\nA picture hat, also sometimes known as a Gainsborough hat, is an elaborate woman's hat with a wide brim. It has been suggested that the name may be derived from the way the broad brim frames the face to create a 'picture'.\n\nThis is a very broad category of hat; some versions may be similar to the halo or cartwheel hat. This style featured in virtually every decade of the 20th century, and has a history dating back to at least the 18th century.\n\nThe picture hat was first popularised as a style at the end of the 18th century and is said to have been inspired by the hats seen on portraits of society women painted by Thomas Gainsborough. It was then often known as the \"Gainsborough Chapeau\". Other names included garden hat. These early hats were large, with a wide brim and were designed to perch on top of the lavish hairstyles popular during this era. Hats incorporated details such as feathers and trims – some are said to have even included whole stuffed birds. \n\nThe picture hat became fashionable again from the end of the 19th century – popularised in images of Gibson Girls in the United States and Canada and in the Gaiety Girls of the London theatre.\n\nIn the early 1920s, \"The Times\" described Paris fashions of large picture hats in black velvet trimmed with traditional garden flowers. In the same year, the picture hat was described as: \"greatly in favour\", alongside the toque. As a fashion correspondent noted in 1922, its popularity may have been due to its adaptable nature: \"They are wearable in every season, and vary more in the way they are put on than in shape\". Styles were simpler than those worn in the Edwardian era – following the prevailing fashion of cloches by including a more close-fitting crown to flatter shorter hairstyles. A 1920s advert for Harrods' spring hats showcased a black straw picture hat with a wide brim embroidered with silk and chenille. By the end of the 1920s, picture-style hats were changing shape, as noted by a fashion correspondent: \"Hats with higher fronts to the crown are being made, and one new shape has a turned-back brim at the side, in the style of the old-fashioned picture hat, but smaller\".\n\nA 1930 review of millinery designs created by Madame Agnès – who was also a sculptor – noted a trend towards more unusual shapes for picture hats: \"The brims of picture hats are irregular and are attached to the crown in such a way as to lift the front away from the forehead or to form a little point\". Picture hats remained popular for sporting events and marriages, although by the middle of the decade some designs were becoming smaller. In 1935, \"The Times\" described summer designs worn forward on the head, with low crowns and trimmings of flowers, fruit or draped fabric. Picture hats continued to be worn for both day and evening events – a Paquin evening gown of 1938 included a black velvet model with veil, worn with matching elbow-length gloves.\n\nThe Queen and other members of the British royal family continued to favour picture hats in the immediate post-war years, and they remained a fixture at weddings and sporting occasions. By 1955, however, \"The Times\" had announced the disappearance of the picture hat in fashion, as streamlined cloche, cocktail and new conical-shaped hats came into vogue. The article noted: \"A solitary wide-brimmed classic among some 60 models selected from those now going into the shops...but such a shape has for long been beloved of many Englishwomen, and by comparison the rest of the hats were a chic and challenging assortment\". The death knell was perhaps sounded too soon, as by 1958 hats were either very large or very small. Parisian milliner Claude Saint-Cyr was designing dramatic picture hats – relying more on shape than on trimmings for effect – very much in the style that would be worn three years later by Audrey Hepburn in \"Breakfast at Tiffany's\".\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, the picture hat persisted – although designs such as the pillbox and bucket hat were more popular – but tended to have a higher crown. The Victoria and Albert Museum archive has a photograph of a Madame Paulette model from 1963 that illustrates the fashion for height as well as width. By the early 1970s, there was a revival – with memorable examples including the design worn at the Saint Tropez wedding of Bianca Jagger in 1971, and the outsize model worn by Farah Fawcett at her wedding to Lee Majors in 1973.\n\nThe picture hat remains a popular style for events such as Ladies' Day at Ascot and its high-profile fans include Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, who is known for her wide-brimmed designs. Many of the hats she wears are created by Philip Treacy. \n\nPicture hats still appear on the fashion catwalk; notably Marc Jacobs included oversized fur designs harking back to in the late Victorian age his 2012 autumn-winter show at New York Fashion Week.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30431633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30431633", "title": "Political myth", "text": "Political myth\n\nA political myth is an ideological narrative that is believed by social groups.\n\nIn 1975, Henry Tudor defined it in the book \"Political Myth\". He said that myths are believed to be true even if they may be false, and they are devices with dramatic constructions used \"in order to come to grips with reality\". Political myths simply deal with political topics and always use a group of people as the hero or protagonist. In 2001, Christopher G. Flood described a working definition of a political myth as \"an ideologically marked narrative which purports to give a true account of a set of past, present, or predicted political events and which is accepted as valid in its essentials by a social group\".\n\nExamples cited as political myths include Manifest Destiny, The Clash of Civilizations, and national myths.\n\nIn 1946 Ernst Cassirer recounted political theory in his \"The Myth of the State\".\n\nIn 1973, T.L. Thorson wrote in the 4th edition of \"A History of Political Theory\": \"It is the mark of a modern mind to be able to explicitly create a 'myth' as a way of influencing others (as, for example, Plato does in \"The Republic\"). In it original sense myth is a literal description.\"\n\nAccording to Tudor, what recasts myth as political in nature is its subject matter, that being politics. In order for a political narrative to be recast as myth, the narrative of events must be cast in dramatic form and it must serve a practical argument.\n\nTudor defines \"dramatic form\", stating \"there is indeed a critical event by reference to which men can order their present experience but the events in question are thought of as taken place in the past.\" The function of political myth can be better understood when it is broken down into the following components: (1) myth provides the theoretical argument, which is incorporated into an (2) ideology that supports the myth by providing a practical argument.\n\nEvery myth has its protagonist/heroic figure that represents a particular community destined to create a morally coherent world which orients the community's activities towards this end. \nMythopoeic narratives in political discourse can range from origin stories (foundation myths) that recount the establishment of a community, to ascribing a political existence to a community based in the future (often a utopic vision), to restoring a political community that has ceased to exist. \n\nAlthough, both myth and ideology carry certain values and beliefs, ideology provides a practical argument rooted in rendering the community's past experiences as coherent, allowing them to make sense of their present circumstances and often, as a result, providing communities with objectives for future activities. A myth is considered a \"political myth\" when the narrative provides an ideologically marked account of the past, present, and future of the political community. By \"ideologically marked\", the narrative carries \"assumptions, values, and goals associated with a specific ideology… that conveys an implicit invitation to assent to a particular ideological standpoint.\"\n\nIn short, political myths offer \"an account of the past and the future in the light of which the present can be understood.\" A political myth's success is dependent on the practical argument being accepted as true.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1931734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931734", "title": "Ry Tanindrazanay malala ô!", "text": "Ry Tanindrazanay malala ô!\n\nRy Tanindrazanay malala ô! is the national anthem of Madagascar. The lyrics were written by Pasteur Rahajason and the music by Norbert Raharisoa. It is similar to a march and was strongly influenced by European music and the French colonial education system It is often played by Malagasy musicians on the accordion. The anthem was officially adopted on April 27, 1959 by the parliament of Madagascar prior to the official granting of independence on 26 June 1960. Philibert Tsiranana was Prime Minister of Madagascar during the creation of the anthem and Michel Debré was the French Prime Minister during this time. The main focus of the anthem is love of the land, as well as thankfulness to God and an appeal to unity and loyalty under the nation.\n\n\"Pastor\" Rahajason is credited with writing the national anthem of Madagascar. He was a priest born in 1897 and died in 1971. He was influenced by the French colonial education system, the aim of which was to assimilate the colonized people and was part of the broader civilizing mission. This system was designed to orient local Malagasy populations towards the French colonial project, promoting strong ties to the French language, as well as French civilization, values, and cultural preferences. The schools were often associated with various missionary organizations, imparting a strong religious education overtone, also accounting for Rahajason's exposure to Christianity and his subsequent decision to become a pastor.\n\nNorbert Raharisoa is credited with composing the national anthem of Madagascar. Raharisoa was also a music teacher and professor. He was born in 1914 and died in 1963, shortly following the adoption of his composition. He was honoured for his contributions to Malagasy culture by being featured on the 40 franc postage stamp in 1967. Like his colleague Rahajason, Norbert Raharisoa was raised under the French colonial education system, which explains the colonial influence on the anthem.\n\nPhilibert Tsiranana, the Prime Minister of Madagascar during the independence talks with France, was content to remain within the broader influence of the French, including the franc zone. He wanted to ask for an independent ability to conduct diplomatic relations, allowing France to continue its role in other aspects of governance such as defense.\n\nMichel Debré was the French Prime Minister during this time.\n\nThe anthem is written as a European-style march, consistent with many national anthems around the world. The march is traditionally a military style, with a strong and even beat, originally meant to help troops \"march\" in step while traveling.\n\nThe anthem betrays its colonial influence through the general absence of local musical styles and instrument types. Ron Emoff, professor of music and anthropology at OSU Newark, notes that the anthem is not played in the \"vakondra-zana\" style, which is the style of the ancestors' music, also known as a form of traditional music. Emoff also notes that the anthem is usually not played on the local instrument, the \"valiha\"\".\" This is because the anthem replicates the same essential ingredients that European hymns use, which are themselves based on old religious and nationalistic hymns.\n\nThe national anthem of Madagascar was officially adopted on April 27, 1959, approximately one year before Madagascar achieved independence from the French, on June 26, 1960. The song was originally written in French and Malagasy, an Indonesian language, indicating both the influence of the French colonizers and the prominence of Indonesian immigration to Madagascar.\n\nAnthems are meant to be hymns to the nation, celebrating important national traditions, goals, and histories and Madagascar's anthem follows this tradition well. They are meant to create a strong sense of national unity and nationalism, and in nations like Madagascar, they are designed to supersede ethnic affiliations.\n\nResearcher Igor Cusack identified several themes under which national anthems generally fall: calls to awake, arise, or work for future progress; praise for what's already there; and/ or thanks to God. Cusack defines anthems as essentially praise hymns to God, the nation, or a parental figure, in keeping with the European origin of anthems as hymns. Writing about Madagascar, Cusack explains that it was influenced by its French colonial masters, and featured the themes: blessed by God, God save our land/people, and a nonspecific love of their beloved land.\n\nThe anthem is officially written in both French (the colonial language) and Malagasy (the predominant local Indonesian language). This is because prior to Madagascar being conquered by the French in 1896, the island was already home to many different people groups, beginning with the arrival of Indonesians in AD 350. African migrants came from AD 1000 and onwards, as well as other smaller groups, making Madagascar a very diverse nation and explaining the emphasis in the anthem of uniting as a nation based on the beauty of the land rather than a specific ethnic identity. In all, the people of Madagascar were influenced by Indonesian, French, Indian, Arab, and African cultural and religious practices.\n\nAlthough the independence movement in Madagascar can be traced back to the nationalist attacks against the French in late March 1947, it is officially credited to the successful referendum vote in 1958 and the founding of the Malagasy Republic on October 14, 1958. They were officially granted independence from France on June 20, 1960 and became known as the Republic of Madagascar.\n\nBased on the themes provided by Igor Cusack, the Madagascar anthem strongly demonstrates elements of \"blessed by God\", \"God save our land/people\", and a \"love of their beloved land\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14581235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14581235", "title": "Scanners II: The New Order", "text": "Scanners II: The New Order\n\nScanners II: The New Order, also known as Scanners 2: The New Order, is a 1991 science fiction thriller film. It is a standalone sequel to the 1981 feature film \"Scanners\" with a different cast, starring David Hewlett, Deborah Raffin, Raoul Trujillo, and Yvan Ponton. It was written by B.J. Nelson and directed by Christian Duguay. The plot involves a crooked police commissioner (Ponton) who schemes to gain control of a major city by manipulating Scanners (persons born with telepathic and telekinetic abilities) to do his bidding. The film was released direct-to-video in North America.\nDuring one of his classes, a young veterinarian intern named David Kellum (David Hewlett) discovers that he has mental abilities to read and control minds of others. When he moves from his country home to the city to continue his studies, he finds difficulty in controlling himself: the congestion of many minds and the ability to hear voices overwhelm him.\n\nHe stumbles across a store robbery and kills the gunman with his mind. Police Commander John Forrester watches the store's security tape and plans to enlist David to work for him. He tells David that he knows what he is: a Scanner. And, there are others like him around the world. He asks for David's help in tracking down elusive criminals and David agrees.\n\nAfter capturing a man who put strychnine in milk containers throughout the city, Forrester introduces David to Peter Drak, another Scanner who also works for him. Drak proves to be more aggressive when it comes to using his powers. Forrester teaches David techniques by using Drak as a test subject. Drak considers Kellum an enemy but is injected with the drug Eph2, a variant of Ephemerol. It calms him down before he could harm David.\n\nThe drug Ephemerol was what originally created Scanners. It was administered to ease expecting mother's discomfort in the 50's. Its side effect caused babies to develop into Scanners. Forrester tells David that although Eph2 manages to calm a Scanner's mind, the drug is addictive and that he should never use it. Forrester encourages him to develop and control his mental abilities on his own.\n\nDavid feels he has accomplished something by helping with law enforcement. His feeling changes when Forrester orders him to control the mayor and have her announce Forrester as the next Chief of Police. Forrester reassures him that it is the best choice for everyone and together they can stop all crimes. David, feeling guilty, disagrees and questions Forrester's agenda. He explains to the mayor how he forced her to appoint Forrester and apologizes. They then plan a way to remove Forrester from office. David tells Forrester that he is quitting, so Forrester has Drak attack David and kill the mayor before she can react. David escapes and hides at his parents's home.\n\nHe asks his parents about his abilities, and they tell him that he was adopted. They explain that his birth parents were Cameron Vale and Kim Obrist (Stephen Lack and Jennifer O'Neill, respectively, from the first film \"Scanners\"). Vale and Obrist told them about his abilities and that he was in danger. They took David in as their own. David needs to go for a walk but while he is gone, Drak and his accomplices kill David's mother and leave David's father for dead. When David returns, his father tells him about his older sister, Julie Vale. He leaves his father with paramedics and begin searching for his sister.\n\nHe finds Julie in a secluded cabin. She confirms who she is and explains that their parents were killed by Forrester for resisting him. She also states that her former boyfriend Walter agreed to test the earlier version of Ephemerol and was one of the first Scanner to use the drug, a more unstable version. Walter was kidnapped by Forrester and never seen again. Julie agrees to help David.\n\nTogether they go to Forrester's secret compound and discover that Walter is alive and is one of the test subjects with addiction in Eph2. Julie and David disable the perimeter guards. But, once inside, Julie is tranqilized by a dart. David leaves her behind to destroy the research and free the test subject Scanners.\n\nDrak attacks David in the test subject quarters. Drak almost succeeds in killing him, but is stopped by a combined attack by all test subjects, which drains away Drak's life force. This reverses the physical damage all addicted Scanners were suffering from, as well as David's injuries from Drak's attack.\n\nForrester arrives on the scene, in response to David and Julie's assault. Television news reporters and camera crews also show up. He denies the existence of Scanners and his connection to the mayor's death. With his power, David forces Forrester to admit his involvement and motivation before camera. Afterward, Forrester grabs a gun and tries to shoot David, but David and Julie deform Forrester with telekinesis: everything was caught on tape. David then announces that Scanners mean no harm and wish to live in peace.\n\n\nThe film was released on VHS by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment and Media Home Entertainment in the U.S. and in Canada by Malofilm Home Video. A DVD version of the film is included in the Scanners Trilogy box set released only in Europe by Starz Home Entertainment. Shout! Factory's new horror label Scream Factory released a Region 1 DVD/Blu-ray edition on September 10, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "13550031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13550031", "title": "Sociohistorical linguistics", "text": "Sociohistorical linguistics\n\nSociohistorical linguistics, or historical sociolinguistics, is the study of the relationship between language and society in its historical dimension. A typical question in this field would, for instance, be: \"How were the verb endings \"-s\" and -\"th\" (\"he loves\" vs. \"he loveth\") distributed in Middle English society\" or \"When did people use French, when did they use English in 14th-century England?\"\n\nSociohistorical linguistics is a relatively new field of linguistic research which represents a merger of two distinct sub-disciplines of linguistics; sociolinguistics and historical (or diachronic) linguistics. Researchers in this field use sociolinguistic methods to explain historical change. This approach is particularly useful when language-internal data alone is unable to account for some seemingly inexplicable developments. Instead of relying solely upon intra-linguistic evidence and data to explain language change, socio-historical linguists search for extra-linguistic causes of change. One of the seminal works in the field is Romaine (1982)'s \"Socio-Historical Linguistics\". Other studies such as John McWhorter's work, \"The Missing Spanish Creoles\", are more specific in this case examining the extra-linguistic reasons why there are no creoles with Spanish as a lexifier language (as opposed to English, French, Dutch, Portuguese, etc.). Not all linguists believe that sociolinguistic methods can be applied to historical situations. They argue that the sociolinguistic means at our disposal today (e.g. face-to-face interviews, recording of data, large and diverse sampling, etc.) are necessarily unavailable to sociolinguists working on historical developments. They therefore argue that it is exceedingly difficult to do socio-historical linguistics, and that the results will always be suspect due to lack of data and access to native speakers in real-world situations. For those who question the validity of socio-historical linguistics, it is a field of conjecture rather than solid conclusions. Those arguing for the validity of socio-historical linguistics reply that it is better to use what remaining textual evidence is available to begin to posit likely scenarios rather than leave some questions completely unanswered. Methods such as social network theory (cf. Lesley Milroy) that look at human interactions and their effects on the larger society are particularly well-suited to socio-historical research.\n\nThe first monograph in sociohistorical linguistics, \"Socio-historical Linguistics; Its Status and Methodology\" was published by Suzanne Romaine in 1982. The field became established in linguistics in the 1990s. Since 2000 there has also been an internet journal \"Historical Sociolinguistics and Sociohistorical Linguistics\". In 2005 the Historical Sociolinguistics Network (HiSoN) was founded which now is the main scholarly network in the domain, organizing annual summer schools and conferences.\n\nDue to the lack of recordings of spoken language, sociohistorical linguistics has to rely exclusively on written corpora.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4120613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4120613", "title": "Solomonari", "text": "Solomonari\n\nThe Solomonar or Șolomonar (In German sources often: \"Scholomonar\") is a wizard believed, in Romanian folklore to ride a dragon (zmeu or a balaur) and control the weather, causing rain, thunder, or hailstorm.\n\nThey are recruited from common folk and taught their magic at the Solomonărie or Şolomanţă (German phonetization: Scholomance).\n\nThe Solomonars are said to be tall, red-haired, wearing long white robes of peasants, sometimes woolen, or clad in ragged attire made from patches, and they are most often seen around begging for alms. The contents of their magic bag are instruments such as an iron ax, birchbark reins or bridal, a book of wisdom. A branch that has killed a snake is included in some lists. Once they are in the guise of beggars, often as a crippled one or a blindfolded one, they blend in with the populace so they cannot be distinguished as wizards. However, they apparently have the knowledge and memory of which peasant's farm deserves his retribution when he acts as a dragon-rider sending down his hailstorm.\n\nThe Solomonari, by some accounts, are recruited from the people. They are taught their magic and the speech of animals at the school (Scholomance), and become capable of riding the dragons. Tradition says they became the Devil's students, either being instructed by him, or becoming a servant to his commands.\n\nAn additional belief was that the students were taught at the Devil's school which was situated underground, and that the students avoided the rays of the sun for the 7-year duration of their study. They were in fact a type of \"strigoi\" or vampire, according to S. F. Marian, who collected the folklore from the field.\n\nThe solomonari were regarded as dragon-riders who control the weather, causing thunder, or rain, or hail to fall.\n\nOne way in which this belief was articulated was that a particular pupil out of the graduating class of ten would be selected by the Devil to become the designated Weather-maker () who rode the dragon \"Ismeju\" (German phoneticization of \"zmeu\"). Or he became the \"Devil's aide-de-camp\" who rode the \"zmeu\" to make thunderbolts. Or thirdly, the \"Solomonariu\" would fly up into the skies, and whenever his dragon glanced the clouds rainfall would come. But God made sure the dragon would not weary, because if it plummeted, it would devour a great part of the earth.\n\nA rather different presentation is that Solomonari who normally lived as beggars among the populace, would occasionally engage himself to become the drgaon-rider and hail-bringer. He selected which fields to damage, knowing which of the peasants were unkind to them. A peasant may hire a \"counter-Solomonari\" who will pronounce spells to divert the dragon-riding Solmomonari.\n\nIn this version, the type of dragon they rode were the \"balauri\" (sing. \"balaur\"). This dragon can be brought out of a bottomlessly deep lake by using \"golden reins\" (; ), and the wizard and dragon would create storms or bring down hail.\n\n\"Scholomance\" and \"Scholomonariu\" appeared in print in the Austrian journal \"Österreichische Revue\" in 1865, written by Wilhelm Schmidt (1817–1901) The piece is discussed as a belief present in the Central Romanian Fogarasch (Făgăraș) district and beyond, with additional lore from Hermannstadt.\n\nEmily Gerard later wrote on the topic of \"Scholomance\", although she only referred to its attendees as \"scholars\", and did not specifically employ the term \"Solomanari\" or the equivalent.\n\nRomanian ethnobotanist Simion Florea Marian described the Solmonari in his article on \"Daco-Romanian Mythology\" in the ' (1879. Marian collected this folklore orally from the people in Siebenbürgen (Transylvania) and the adjoining Bukovina-Moldavia region.\n\nThe term \"Solomonar\" (\"solomonar\" - singular, \"solomonars\" - plural) has been in use since at least the 18th century. \"Scholomonáriu\", defined as \"Zauberer\" or \"sorcerer\" occurs in a particularly early instance in a glossary dating from 1781.\n\nThe default explanation is that the word is connected to King Solomon via the addition of the occupational suffix \"-ar\", although this may be folk etymology. A folkloric account attests to the association with the biblical king. In an account given by Friedrich von Müller the \"Kaiser Salomo\" has the ability to control the weather, and the inheritors of his art are called \"Scholomonar\".\n\nGaster, more complicatedly, suggested a hybrid of the word for the magic school \"Scholomantze\" (Romanian orthography: \"Şolomanţă\") from association with Salamanca, and \"Solomonie\" (from Solomon). An alternate derivation from the German \"Schulmänner\" (\"scholars\"), in reference to the popular belief that solomonars attended a school, is credited to J. Vulcan.\n\nKing Solomon as weather-maker may derive from the Greek myth of Zeus the king of gods controlling the weather, a theory proposed by A. Oișteanu This notion that Solomon's adherents were wizards may have been popularized by the influence of the adventure tale \"Solomon and Morcolf\".\n\nAs the Solomonari have been described as red-haired giants (, \"pl.\"), a connection to them and the legendary Red Jews (\"evreilor roşii\") has been suggested by . This hypothesis builds on Lazăr Șăineanu's theory that giant/Jews in Romanian folklore derived from the historical Khazars, and Arthur Koestler bringing the notion of the \"Red Jews\" into that formulation (Koestler's \"The Thirteenth Tribe\", the ultimate source being A. N. Poliak's book on the Khazars in Hebrew).\n\nSimilarity with the Geto-Dacian ascetics called the \"ktistai\" described by Strabo was noted by Traian Herseni (d. 1980) who hypothesized that they were the original Solomonari. Herseni posited that the \"ktisai\" were more properly called \"skistai\" meaning \"those who abstain from worldly pleasures\", and that the cryptic byname that Strabo gave them \"Kapnobatai\" (which literally means \"smoke-treaders\") really meant \"travelers in the clouds\".\n\nThe theory has found its strong proponent in Eugen Agrigoroaiei, who pronounced that the origins of the Solomonari had been established, and the Dacian cloud travelers must have been authentic Solomonari. Andrei Oișteanu cautions that while \"enticing\", the \"hypothesis remains as only as plausibility\". He points out that a tradition kept alive from Caesar's time to the 19th century presents a credibility issue, since there is a complete vacuum in the records about any of it for the 1900-year interim. is another skeptic who referred to the idea as \"speculation by Herseni\".\n\nParallels with the legend of the Serbo-Croatian \"garabancijaš dijak\" () \"necromantic scholar\" had been sought in Moses Gaster's paper, which is one a major source for the Solomanarii folkloristics. The Croatian version was described by Vatroslav Jagić and the Hungarian version by .\n\nThe meaning of the term is very similar if not identical in all its occurrences because it always refers to an enchanter (practitioner of magic based on incantation), a summoner and master of high and subtle energies.\n\nA number of synonyms can be found in Romanian, including \"zgrimințeș\", and it is considered synonymous or closely connected to the widespread Balkan legend known in Serbo-Croatian (for example) as \"grabancijaš dijak\" (\"the necromancy student\").\n\nSome sources like to refer to the dragons that the Solomonari ride as \"storm dragons\". The riders may travel together with Moroi.\n\nFearing their wrath, people usually ask a Master Stonemason for advice. This Master Stonemason is a former Solomonar himself, who dropped the craft in favor of being again amongst people; his knowledge is highly prized because he knows the secrets of Solomonars.\n\nThe Solomonars were not supernatural creatures, but rather humans who learned special abilities. It is said that the children who become solomonar are born bearing a particular type of membrane on their head or on the whole of their body. Later, as the legend says, these children were to be selected into apprenticeship by experienced Solomonars, taken into forests or in caves which would usually be marked with encoded inscriptions. These children would learn the art and craft of wizardry, which they would use to fight against the dark forces of nature and of the human spirit. They are often said to be very secretive and if they lied or broke the caste rules, they were severely and cruelly punished. Some accounts state that Solomonars have a special book in which all their knowledge and power is gathered. This is the book they use during their apprenticeship and only one out of seven apprentices becomes a solomonar.\n\nThe Solomonars lived like ascetics, away from the civilized world, and sometimes they are said to actually live on \"\" although they are known to return to civilization and beg for alms although they do not need anything and wherever they are not received well, they would call a hailstorm as a means of punishment.\n\nIn early times, the solomonars were considered benevolent, but as Christianity began to supplement early beliefs, the \"solomonars\" started to be perceived as evil and the popular beliefs even invented an \"anti-solomonar\" hero type. Fortunately, like we saw, the belief in \"solomonars\" has not died out; it had diminished over time but it is still kept in remote locations of Romania. The \"Solomonars\" are often rather seen as cunning and intelligent people. However, generally speaking, people did and do not treat them as evil wizards.\n\nThe Romanian tradition does not doubt their existence. There are even witnessing accounts in Transylvania and Moldavia regarding the existence of living solomonars.\n\nFriedrich von Müller (1857) reported a story from Schäßburg (Sighișoara in Transylvania) in which a Romanian mistook a robed student for a solomonar.\n\n"}
{"id": "43504850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43504850", "title": "Spara och Slösa", "text": "Spara och Slösa\n\nSpara och Slösa was a Swedish comic strip series created by Birgitta Lilliehöök, and published between the years of 1926–1963 for the Swedish bank concern Sparbanken's children's magazine \"Lyckoslanten\". Today the comic, which has become well known for the generation growing up in mid 20th century Sweden, is illustrated by Lena Forsman.\n\nThe main characters are two girls, where Slösa (\"Waste\") always throws away her money on entertainment and consumption while Spara (\"Save\") saves her money. The comics were intended to educate children on how to spend money properly.\n"}
{"id": "4851082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4851082", "title": "Spiritualism in fiction", "text": "Spiritualism in fiction\n\nThis article provides a list of fictional stories in which Spiritualism features as an important plot element. The list omits passing mentions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1970514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1970514", "title": "Tadelakt", "text": "Tadelakt\n\nTadelakt (tadla:kt) is a waterproof plaster surface used in Moroccan architecture to make baths, sinks, water vessels, interior and exterior walls, ceilings, roofs, and floors. It is made from lime plaster, which is rammed, polished, and treated with soap to make it waterproof and water-repellant. Tadelakt is labour-intensive to install, but durable. Since it is applied as a paste, tadelakt has a soft, undulating character, it can form curves, and it is seamless. Pigment can be added to give it any colour, but deep red is traditional. It may have a shiny or matte finish.\n\n\"Tadelakt\" means \"to rub in\", from Amazigh/Berber.\n\nTadelakt is thought to have evolved from qadad, a similar plaster treated with calcium hydroxide and oils and fats instead of soaps.\n\nThe basic constituents of tadelakt plaster are:\n\nThe soap chemically reacts with the lime plaster, forming lime (calcium) soaps. Calcium soaps are insoluble in water, and fairly hard. They are familiar, in areas with calcium-rich (\"hard\") water, as deposits in bathtubs, sinks, and showers; when soap is mixed with the water's dissolved calcium carbonate/lime, calcium soaps form.\n\nTraditional application includes polishing with a river stone and treatment with oleic acid, in the form of olive oil soap, to lend it its final appearance and water resistance.\n\nIn Morocco, the traditional application technique:\n\nLong-term maintenance of tadelakt requires regularly re-sealing the surface with a soap solution; in the case of qadad roofs, this was traditionally done every few years.\n\nTadelakt can be elaborately carved into yeseria.\n\nTadelakt is the traditional coating of the palaces, hammams and bathrooms of the riads in Morocco. The restoration of the riads of Morocco had led to a resurgence in its use.\n\nIn modern times, it has been used outside.\n\n"}
{"id": "58746123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58746123", "title": "The Invisible Boy - Second Generation", "text": "The Invisible Boy - Second Generation\n\nThe Invisible Boy - Second Generation () is a 2018 Italian fantasy-superhero film directed by Gabriele Salvatores, sequel of the 2014 film \"The Invisible Boy\".\n\nThree years have passed since the adventures of Michele Silenzi, now sixteen. By now he lives alone: his adoptive mother Giovanna, in fact, died after the fall of her car after a telephone discussion about her academic performance; Stella - whose memory was erased by Andrey - remembers nothing of what happened in the submarine and got engaged to Brando, who made her believe she was her saviour.\n\nIn the class of Michael comes a new girl, Natasha, who has a special power: pyrokinesis. During a party given at the home of Brando, Michele decides to reveal in front of everyone the truth of what happened during that night; while he is about to show Stella his power, Natasha conjures up the fire to create a stir so as to be able to stun Michele.\n\nThe boy wakes up in the bedroom of an abandoned noble house, where he finds before him Natasha and a woman named Yelena, who reveals to him that the girl is his sister and that she is their mother. In the meantime, some specials scattered around the world are kidnapped.\n\nYelena explains to Michele that he needs blood transfusions from him and Natasha to be able to reinforce since he is belonging to the typology of first-generation specials. Transfusions are performed by the Doctor. KA, a doctor belonging to the \"normal\" who has worked with her for some time; the mother tells her son that Andrey has been mysteriously kidnapped and is convinced that the abductor is the cruel Igor Zavarov, a Russian oligarch known to her as a bitter enemy and exploiter of the specials. Yelena's plan is to get her children to help kidnap Zavarov so as to stop him in his campaign against the specials and, at the same time, save Andreji.\n\nThe kidnapping must be carried out while he is in Trieste for the inauguration of his new pipeline and Yelena entrusts Michele with the task of entering the offices of the police station and stealing the security plans for the day of the inauguration of the gas pipeline so as to discover the exact movements of Zavarov. Through his invisibility, Michele succeeds very well in the task by making his mother proud of him.\n\nThe family begin to know each other and love each other, the two brothers are confiding some of the key episodes of their lives lived in those years, Natasha says she was taken to Morocco and entrusted to a good woman, then died. Her brother, Yusuf, became her legal guardian and began to mistreat her until she tried to take advantage of her. This until the girl discovered her power, just before being saved by her mother; one day Natasha is also intrigued by a talisman spotted in a jewellery store, Michele uses her power to steal it for her and, together, deliver the jewel to the mother who, joyful to be re-forming her family, wear it saying that he would never have taken it off.\n\nThat night the brothers sleep hugging their mother, who remembers the events following the flight with Andrey and the children. While the man had managed to save himself, the woman had been captured again and locked up in an institute where with the arrival of Zavarov the experiments on specials to try to understand the origin of their power became real torture. Only Doctor KA showed a certain respect for them but Zavarov did not care about their lives and when during an experiment Katia, the elastic girl dies, Yelena had told Claw that it was time to unleash the rebellion. The special took the power of the fortress but they could not stop Zavarov who therefore saved himself. While most of the specials decided to return to life by hiding their skills, Yelena wanted to find her children, with the help of Artiglio and Doctor KA.\n\nOnce the time for the inauguration of the gas pipeline has arrived, Yelena and Natasha tell Michele to say goodbye to anyone who wants to remember her past life and Michele goes to the invisible at the gym where Stella and Candela rehearse their last issue of artistic gymnastics, so as to see for the last time the girl who loved. As he is about to leave, the boy notices a man and a woman, Cinetica and Morpheus, stealing a wallet through her paranormal modalities and, recognizing them as Specials, the boy follows them. The two enter the villa where Michele lives with his mother and sister and Michele follows them down to the basement, where he is holding a meeting in which there are Yelena, Natasha, Doctor KA and the specials who had been kidnapped in Europe. Yelena, who is the leader of the group, exposes an extreme plan that shows how the tortures by Zavarov had made her so rebellious that she became even cruel: at the inauguration of the gas pipeline, the group will go to the warehouse where it is located. 'generator plant, KA will pour inside it an explosive substance produced by him, which will be driven by the intensity of the fire of Natasha. The substance will circulate to the pipeline, and then to the square where the event will take place, so as to provoke a great explosion that will exterminate in addition to Zavarov, their sworn enemy, even a large part of the population of Trieste. So it was Yelena who kidnapped the specials so that they could use them as allies in that operation that will serve to destroy a good part of the normals that Zavarov belongs to and give the sign of the supremacy of the specials over them. Michele now knows the truth, he would like to warn the police but Natasha, bequeathed by Andreji, can hear his brother's thoughts and find out.\n\nMichele is locked in the cell that is in the basement, reproaches the mother of not being able to act in the first person being too weak to do it, and Yelena gives him a bitter news: Doctor KA has managed to combine the DNA of Second Specials Generation of Natasha and Michele in a car called UTERO, thanks to which Yelena and the special allies have regained their full strength. That's why the mother so badly needed her children. Natasha, who had not had an acceptable life like that of Michele, is determined to follow her mother to the end while boy discovers that next to his cell is the one in which his father is locked up, kidnapped by his mother and segregated there for all the time as for not having approved the extreme rebellion of Yelena. Andreji, through the mental connection he has with his son, shows him the truth about what happened to Giovanna, or that Yelena killed her; after sneaking into her car and having anaesthetized her, the woman pushed the car and the policewoman off the cliff. Michele, by the anger and frustration of what was revealed to him, takes control of his mental power of manipulation of the molecules and destroys the walls of the cells.\n\nFather and son reach the pipeline pumping station where Yelena and the team are about to implement the plan. Andreji is stunned by Roccia, who then lashes out against Michele, who, however, makes the most of his powers of molecular control through anger, managing to throw the super strong on the ground. At this point, Kinetics begins to bring down from the van that carries the team of artistic gymnastics in which there are also Stella and Candela, as a threat to Michael to stop him. With an incredible readiness and skill, Michele shoots Kinetica aside and takes the van down and also tries to dissuade Natasha, ready to hit the generator to operate the explosive. Stripped on the side Natasha, however, is stopped by Kinetics who raises it upwards. Natasha, supported by her mother, is preparing to strike but Michele communicates telepathically with her and shows her the images of Giovanna's murder so as to make her aware of the unkempt, unreachable meadows of her mother.\n\nIn tears, Natasha turns her disagreement over her mother, disappointed by his constant lies as a function of her goals, and hits Kinetic so as to free Michael. The two brothers are preparing to fight against the allies of the mother, but take advantage of the fireball hurled by Natasha and finished against the timber in the warehouse. Resasi invisible and recovered one of the burning beams directs the race towards the generator; Andreji finds and hears the thoughts of the woman identifies her and starts to chase her. Father and mother have a fight that ends tragically: the two fall embraced against a blunt iron that protrudes from the floor, remaining pierced.\n\nMichele has saved his friends and the city but also Zavarov, the three special helpers leave suggesting that they will continue the Russian hunting alone. Michele confronts Stella, who has now figured out who was saving her that night and asks her to keep the secret for her. In front of the parents' bodies, the two brothers hug each other. Natasha murmurs in Michele's ear: \"We are new orphans, Misha\".\n\nIn the end, the two brothers are embraced on the back of a coach and Michele shows a normal child his power, and then ask him not to reveal it to anyone: he realizes, therefore, another relationship of trust between special and normal that the mother had not believed possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28278995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28278995", "title": "The Society for the Preservation of Wild Culture", "text": "The Society for the Preservation of Wild Culture\n\nThe Society for the Preservation of Wild Culture (SPWC) was a Toronto arts organization in existence from 1986 to 1991 that explored environmental and ecological issues from an artistic perspective in a \"quirky and innovative\" way. The SPWC was best known for three programs: a literary magazine, The Journal of Wild Culture; artist-guided walks, \"landscape readings\"; and a series of cabarets, The Café of Wild Culture.\n\nThe organization was a unique hybrid. The oxymoron \"wild culture\" tweaked the interest of contrasting types: artists, scientists and activists, and the efforts made by the organization to develop creative projects and discourse around the term were well received. It was concurrently accepted as an arts organization by artists and an environmental organization by environmentalists.\n\nThe organisation was resurrected in 2011 and is now producing an online magazine based in London and Toronto.\n\nThe style of the organization was determined by how participating artists expressed themselves around the undefined idea of \"wild culture\" (also see \"wildculture\"). While calling for new articulations of wild culture through its projects, at its height the society filled the cultural vacuum in Toronto with an eclectic kind of \"thinking man's\" fun and provided a forum for experimentation amongst performance artists. The broader public was encouraged by the SPWC to engage with questions about nature and art, while frequently congregating in the outdoors. This audience was also attracted to the organization's ability to 'soft pedal doom and gloom while partying for the planet\".\n\nDuring a landscape reading on the aboriginal history of downtown Toronto, poet M. T. Kelly offered a view of how the SPWC sought to affect its audience: \"There is a bridge between history and landscape. To get people to change their view of the environment, you can't just argue in economic terms. It's an emotional thing. People act politically when they get emotionally involved\".\n\nThe notion of \"wild culture\" grew out of multidisciplinary artist Whitney Smith's experience of \"a spiritual updraft in the art spheres\" while foraging wild foods in the Ontario forest that he sold to local chefs. From 1982 to 1985 a series of three performances, \"Fern Policy\", explored the possibilities of artistic growth in the nature-culture ecotone. In May 1985 Smith made the first public announcement on the formation of the society at a Toronto art event, \"L'Affaire 'Pataphysique\", that presented examples of 'pataphysics by local artists parodying theory and methods of modern science. Following this event Smith began recruiting artists to help develop \"The Journal of Wild Culture\".\n\nThough there were attempts by the organization to define \"wild culture\", there was never an accepted definition. Smith preferred his colleagues and audiences to find wild culture's meaning through the titles of the projects in which it appeared, where the social context was at play; that is, that there existed a serious-sounding and possibly genuine academic journal published by a preserving society with a long name, all devoted to a subject no one knew anything about. Negotiating the serious and the non-serious in a way that made sense and entertained became part of the artists' work.\n\nBefore there was Smith's recent definition of wild culture (\"the articulated ecotone between what humans do and what they can't control in nature\"), no single explanation existed around which the S.P.W.C artists\" work was done. Some said that it was the vagueness of the idea, the inability to pin it down, that made it so attractive. In the absence of concrete description, Smith offered a metaphor, which he has recently modified: On the surface of a transparent painting is the human geographic reality that is part of our everyday life, and in the background are elements of nature, seen and unseen, that are very much alive but that people aren\"t always aware of, whether out of convenience, ignorance, apathy, or any state of unconsciousness or self-centeredness that contributes to the disconnection from our primal history and our present psychic hold on the home terrain. Wild culture is the two planes, foreground and background, seen together.\n\nThe literary organ of the SPWC, its subtitle, ecology, and imagination, spoke to the notion of \"The Journal of Wild Culture\" being a platform for artists to express themselves through the lens, or mirror, of the natural world. Smith said that \"one of the things wild culture \"is\", is a tolerance for ambiguity and an acceptance that things cannot be defined\". The \"quirky and innovative\" magazine carried on its discourse in a way that influenced the way more serious themes could be delivered with a sense of play and timeliness.\n\nBorn out of the wild foods foraging of founder Whitney Smith, the magazine was conceived in 1986-1987 by an editorial team that included Smith and architect Peter Ferguson, public relations consultant Kim Obrist and filmmaker and publisher Christopher Lowry. Smith attributed his inspiration for the formation of the society to the National Geographic Society (which published its own journal) and \"FILE\" magazine, produced by the conceptual and media-based art collective, General Idea, and to the \"Utne Reader\"'s use of other published materials. The SPWC was in production in Toronto from 1986 to 1991. Graphic designer Bernard Stockl became the art director and quickly established the look of the magazine, including the characteristic contents page. Smith and Lowry assembled a photocopied \"Journal of Wild Culture\" Preview Issue that was circulated in the arts community, and a donation of $5000 \"from an anonymous angel\" followed, just enough to pay for the printing of the first issue.\n\nThe premier issue was launched on July 27, 1987 at the Wild Culture Hoedown on Toronto Island. It was described by Smith at the time as \"a cross between a literary journal and an arty comic book with ecology as its theme\". Future Wild Culture events followed the format and spirit of the Hoedown by offering down-home high-end cuisine using wild foods and made on site by Chris Klugman, a well-known local chef, and featuring artists whose personae related to nature themes: the Marquis de Sod and Mr. Potatohead were the guests of honour at the launch. Poet Christopher Dewdney, an early contributor to the magazine, said that \"half of the experience at \"The Journal of Wild Culture\" is the parties.) Volume I, Number 1 was sold for $3.95 and 3000 copies were widely distributed in Canada by Disticor, and the issue sold out; later distribution of increased numbers went into the U.S. It developed a small but devoted fan base, particularly in British Columbia. In 1990 its southwestern U.S. distributor reported that the magazine had \"a cult following in Texas\".\n\nSmith said that Stockl, who died of AIDS-related causes in 1992, was a significant contributor to JWC. \"Bernie's deep sense of graphic taste and design intelligence struck the right tone with the first issue: serious like an academic journal but also accessible and visually engaging. In order for the quirkiness to work we needed the credible and elegant look that his gave us\". Stockl said he modeled the JWC design after \"Harper's\" and \"Arts and Architecture\": \"The trick was to create certain effects with what was available to us. Trying to cheat our way through it without it looking like that\". The Bernard Franklin Stockl Memorial Scholarship is offered annually at the Alberta College of Design for \"creative and innovative exploration in the use of typography for the purpose of communication\".\n\nIn the late 1980s, when advertisers were slow to embrace the few existing green magazines, and particularly one which the \"Utne Reader\" editor, Eric Utne, called \"indescribable\", low ad sales made it difficult to pay the bills and meet that quarterly schedule; only seven issues were published. Two Wild Culture auctions and funding from the federal and provincials arts councils helped take up the slack, but with a low subscription base and advertising revenue, a sudden drop in grant revenue, fund-raising and marketing fatigue, Smith's reluctance to step into the role of \"a career publisher\", the magazine decided to take a sabbatical. More recently Smith commented on his own burn-out keeping the magazine and the SPWC going, the dilemma of the artist-publisher, and the difficulty of keeping cultural magazines afloat in factors relating to demise of JWC. In early 1991, on CBC radio's \"Arts Report\", it was announced that the magazine was suspending publication. The plan was to pursue a more economically feasible course by following the format of \"Granta\" magazine, offering it as a trade paperback available in bookstores. A pilot issue of selections from past JWC issues was put out by Somerville House in 1992, \"Wild Culture\", edited by Smith and Lowry, but sales were not encouraging; one explanation for this was that the book did not offer new material.\n\nAn attempt by Smith and some new colleagues in 2002 to resurrect the \"Journal of Wild Culture\" online never got off the ground. Smith said that wild culture was \"a notion with a mind of its own\" and that \"the ingredients for a re-launch in 2002 just weren't there\".\n\nLandscape Readings were public walking tours led by artists of outdoor environments that held an intellectual or personal interest for the artist. Landscape Readings were a hybrid that combined the attraction of authors reading their own works with a bracing picnic outing in a setting which combines the context for a lecture on ecology, geology, history or biography.\n\nThe readings were a project initially conceived by Smith to provide a venue for writer and poet Christopher Dewdney to share his extensive knowledge of palaeozoic geology, among other things, and his sense of humour. In July 1987 he gave the first landscape reading of Toronto's High Park Carolinian forest, which was documented in the forthcoming issue of \"The Journal of Wild Culture\".\n\nOther artist guides included Gordon Rayner, Hank Hedges, M. T. Kelly, June Callwood, Larry Zolf, Joyce Weiland, and architect Donald Schmitt. The Readings were created to \"give [SPWC participating] artists a new venue\".\n\nThe Café of Wild Culture was conceived in collaboration with bookseller and film programmer Marc Glassman, who recognized that the sense of humour that was so much a part of the 60s and 70s was missing in the 80s. The Café was performed first in Toronto at The Rivoli, and later in New York at the Village Gate and at Goddard College in Vermont. Its legitimate non-theatre style played off the vaudeville and variety revue made up of several short unrelated acts (in the Café's case, no longer than 7 minutes) that caught the wild culture spirit of thoughtful irreverence. Acts ranged from tendentious 'pataphysical lectures, authentic scientific explanations, obtuse dance works, gentlemen's shirt-ironing contests, and wild food cooking demonstrations, in which small servings were provided for the audience, and a game called StorySlide where artists improvised a performed text based on a random photographic slide show.\n\nSmith met his match when he began a project called the Great Festival of the Lakes, which was to encourage the presentation of community arts festivals in Great Lakes cities. \"I was very concerned about water quality issues at the time, and thought that the SPWC needed an activist project to sponsor. I was wrong. Organizing anything around the Great Lakes is like trying to organize Europe. I learned a lot about underestimating scale on that one, and spreading myself too thin\". The project was abandoned after a couple of years.\n\nIn 1990, the SPWC worked with an organization started by Michael Stadtlander and Jamie Kennedy, Knives and Forks, on Spring Feast, which became a precursor of future events promoting local chefs and wild and organic foods.\n\nFrom September 2011 Smith's work on the SPWC focused on the online publishing platform, The Journal of Wild Culture. The project was beta-launched in December 2012 in London as www.wildculture.com by an editorial and design team including Smith, Joe Hedges of Branding by Garden, Tom Jeffreys, Sarah Lester, Rosie Jackson and Liam Desroy, continued with Smith, Jeffreys and designer Hedges from February to October 2013, at which time Smith took over sole editorial responsibilities, in collaboration, until 2016, with board members Lisa Wilson and Richard Stursberg; Stursberg continues to participate in an advisory role. The publication has no advertising, sends out a weekly newsletter, is supported by donations and the work of a growing community of international contributors. Current editors and contributing editors under publisher/editor Smith include Chellis Glendinning, Herbert Wright, Chris Lowry, Henry Giroux and illustrator Brad Harley.\n\n"}
{"id": "48875904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48875904", "title": "The Sound of Music Live (2015)", "text": "The Sound of Music Live (2015)\n\nThe Sound of Music Live is a television special that was originally broadcast by ITV on 20 December 2015. The special was an adaptation of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Broadway musical \"The Sound of Music\", starring Kara Tointon as Maria von Trapp, performed and televised live from 3 Mills Studios in London. \n\nOn 9 November 2018, the production was broadcast in the United States as part of PBS's performing arts anthology series \"Great Performances\".\n\nIn October 2015, ITV announced that it would transmit a live adaptation of the musical \"The Sound of Music\" as part of its holiday programming lineup, in what would be the first time that such a programme had been attempted in the United Kingdom. \"The Sound of Music Live\" was part of ITV's continuing efforts to broadcast more live \"event\" programs, which are designed to attract critical masses of viewers by encouraging them to watch via the original broadcast, rather than via catch-up services and digital video recorders. The desire for increased ITV viewership came especially in the wake of declining ratings for its reality music competition \"The X Factor\", whose series 12 finale had the second-smallest viewership in the programme's history. ITV had similarly broadcast live episodes of its series \"Coronation Street\" in 2000 and 2010 in honour of its 40th and 50th anniversary respectively, and in 2015 for ITV's 60th anniversary.\n\nThis was not the first time that \"The Sound of Music\" had been adapted in such a manner. In 2013, U.S. network NBC broadcast its own live television adaptation of \"The Sound of Music\" starring country singer Carrie Underwood; similarly to ITV's version, it was an adaptation of the original musical, and not based on the film version. Although it received mixed reviews, it was seen by over 18 million viewers. As follow-ups, NBC produced similar adaptations of \"Peter Pan\" and \"The Wiz\" in 2014 and 2015 respectively. Creative director Coky Giedroyc stated that ITV's iteration would be a \"whole different animal\" in comparison to NBC's, explaining that she wanted to \"keep it true to the original\", and maintain a focus on the political aspects of the story. The production was conducted on soundstages at 3 Mills Studios in London, with the sets alone having a budget of nearly £750,000.\n\nKara Tointon played Maria, and Julian Ovenden played Captain Georg von Trapp. The supporting cast included veterans of British television and theatre, including Alexander Armstrong as Max Detweiler, Katherine Kelly as Baroness Elsa Schraeder, Maria Friedman as Mother Abess, Evelyn Hoskins as Liesl von Trapp, Jon Tarcy as Rolf Gruber, Mel Giedroyc as the housekeeper, Frau Schmidt, and Paul Copley as the butler, Franz.\n\n\"The Sound of Music Live\" received mixed reviews. Mark Shenton of \"The Stage\" said it was a failed experiment, with \"uninspired and sometimes insipid\" choreography and direction, although he praised the cast's performances. Claire Allfree of \"The Daily Telegraph\" said it lacked both the intimacy of live theatre and the scope of the big screen, but nevertheless judged it \"more a success than it was a failure,\" saying that former \"EastEnders\" star Tointon \"brought a refreshing earthiness and grit to Maria that made the passionate, unconventional novice feel thoroughly modern and accessible.\" \"The Mirror\" said that Tointon was \"showered with praise\" for her performance.\n\nThe programme was watched by over 3.82 million viewers according to overnight ratings figures, being beaten by the series eleven finale of \"The Apprentice\" (5.31 million) and its lead-in, the BBC Sports Personality of the Year presentation (5.78 million).\n\n"}
{"id": "46815469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46815469", "title": "Towing Jehovah", "text": "Towing Jehovah\n\nTowing Jehovah is a 1994 fantasy novel by American writer James K. Morrow, published by Harcourt Brace. The book is about the death of God and the subsequent towing of his body across the Atlantic Ocean. In 1995 it received the World Fantasy Award for best novel, with two additional best novel awards. It was followed by two sequels in 1996 and 1999.\n\nGod is dead, and now God's two-mile-long cadaver is floating in the Atlantic Ocean, just off the coast of Africa. As a result, the archangel Raphael hires supertanker captain Anthony Van Horne to tow the cadaver into the Arctic, with the intention of having it be preserved by the cold.\n\n\"Towing Jehovah\" won the 1995 World Fantasy Award for best novel, and was nominated for the 1995 Hugo Award for Best Novel and the 1995 Nebula Award for Best Novel, shortlisted for the 1995 Arthur C. Clarke Award, and ranked second for the 1995 Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel. As well, the French translation, \"Remorquant Jehovah\", won the 1996 Grand Prix de l'Imaginaire for best foreign-language novel.\n\nJo Walton has described it as \"brilliant but weird\", and \"terrific\", while Steven H Silver has called it \"interesting\" and \"intriguing\", and commended Morrow's skill as a religious satirist, but criticized him for the quality of his satires of non-religious topics, saying that \"[w]hen he turns his attention to satirizing other aspects of society, [Morrow] tends to fling his darts at random.\"\n\nThe \"Chicago Tribune\" praised Morrow for his \"light-handed sense of satire\", and said that \"(\"Towing Jehovah\"s) title alone is enough to send your imagination racing off into the cosmos.\" The \"Los Angeles Times\" compared it to the works of Kurt Vonnegut, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, William Shakespeare, and Cecil B. DeMille, but stated that the novel was \"buoyant\" for the same reason that it is \"ultimately, a little disappointing\": namely, \"Morrow doesn't care as much [as Vonnegut]\".\n\nA sequel, \"Blameless in Abaddon\", was published in 1996, and a second sequel, \"The Eternal Footman\", was published in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "48211414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48211414", "title": "Turma do Xaxado", "text": "Turma do Xaxado\n\nTurma do Xaxado is a Brazilian comic strip created by the cartoonist Antônio Cedraz. Set in a rural area in Bahia, more precisely in the Caatinga region, it shows the adventures of a boy who lives on a lower-class farm and his friends. Most of the stories are focused on comedy, showing Xaxado and his friends in funny situations often with an absurd and slapstick humor, with creatures from Brazilian mythology like Saci, the Headless Mule and Iara. However, environmental matters and financial conditions are also shown in many stories, showing the problems that occur in the Caatinga region such as drought and unemployment.\n\nThe comics have been published in various newspapers and magazines. The last comic book was published in 2010 by HQM Editora. In 2015, a new cartoon was announced.\n"}
