{"id": "11195016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11195016", "title": "Alfie Hale", "text": "Alfie Hale\n\nAlfred \"Alfie\" Hale (born 28 August 1939 in Waterford, Republic of Ireland) is a former Irish footballer and manager who played for several clubs in both the League of Ireland and the English League, most notably, Waterford United, Aston Villa, Doncaster Rovers and Cork Celtic. During his career Hale scored 153 goals in the League of Ireland and a further 66 with English League clubs. As an international, Hale also played for the Republic of Ireland.\n\nAfter retiring as a player Hale managed several teams in the League of Ireland, most notably, Cork Celtic, Waterford United and Kilkenny City. In June 2003, Hale and such other notable Waterford footballers as Davy Walsh, Paddy Coad, Peter Thomas, Jim Beglin and John O'Shea were honoured by the Waterford City Council and presented with a Waterford Crystal vase.\n\nHale spent much of his playing and coaching career at Waterford United. His father, three brothers and two uncles had all played for the club in the 1930s. In 1930 the trio even formed an all-Hale half-back line in a league game at home to Bohemians. At the age of 17 Hale junior along with Peter Fitzgerald (footballer) made a scoring League of Ireland debut at Kilcohan Park on St Patrick's Day 1957 in a 3–1 win over Bohemians\n\nHe left Waterford in 1960 but after seven seasons in the English League, he returned in 1966. Then together with Johnny Matthews, he became a central figure in a Waterford team that dominated the League of Ireland. In 1971–72 Hale was player-manager of the side when they beat Cork Hibernians in dramatic circumstances at Flower Lodge to claim his fifth league title in six seasons. In both 1971–72 and 1972–73 he also finished as joint top goalscorer in the league, scoring 22 and 20 goals respectively. He is also the 7th highest League of Ireland goalscorer of all time with 153 league goals. He was awarded a benefit game in August 1971.\n\nHe scored twice against AC Omonia in the 1972–73 European Cup.\n\nIn June 1960, aged 19, Hale was sold by Waterford United to Aston Villa for a fee of £4,500. However, Hale failed to establish himself in the Villa first team and went on to make just 7 first team appearances, scoring 2 goals. Despite this Hale won his first international cap for the Republic of Ireland while at Villa.\n\nHale signed for Doncaster Rovers in the summer of 1962 and made his debut for the club on 18 August in a 2–0 defeat to Brentford in the Football League Fourth Division. He scored four goals in a single game as he helped Rovers to a record league win when they beat Darlington. In three seasons with Rovers, Hale made 119 league appearances and scored 42 goals. He also made 7 appearances for Rovers in the League Cup and 9 in the FA Cup, scoring 2 further goals.\n\nBetween 1962 and 1973, Hale made 14 appearances and scored 2 goals for the Republic of Ireland national football team. He made his senior international debut on 8 April 1962 in a 3–2 home defeat against Austria. Hale went on to score twice for the Republic of Ireland, both goals coming in 1968, against Poland and then Austria. He made his last appearance for the Republic of Ireland on 21 October 1973 as a substitute in a 1–0 home win against Poland.\n\nAs a manager Hale would return to Waterford United for two further spells. During the first of these, between 1982 until 1986, he guided the club to victory in the League of Ireland Cup in 1985 and to the FAI Cup final in 1986. He returned to manage the club again between 1991 and 1993 and helped them achieve promotion from the First Division in 1992. In 2005, he briefly returned to Waterford United once again, this time acting as special advisor.\n\nAside from Waterford, Hale has also coached several other teams in the League of Ireland. He was appointed player/manager of Thurles Town in May 1981 where he made history by becoming the League of Ireland's oldest ever goalscorer, and also the only player to score in four different League of Ireland decades. As manager of Cobh Ramblers, Hale gave Roy Keane his debut in 1990. Between 1995 and 1999 he was manager of Kilkenny City and in 1997, with a team which included the likes of his son Richie, Brendan Rea, Paul Cashin and Pascal Keane, he guided them to the First Division title. After leaving Kilkenny, Hale remained active in junior football working with Waterford Crystal F.C. and Tramore F.C, winning the first league in 50 years with Tramore in 2000–01.\n\nAt the same time as managing various League of Ireland clubs, Hale also established himself as a prominent businessman in the Waterford area. In 1978, he opened a sports shop, currently trading under the name \"Alfie Hale's Intersport\" and located at Arundal Square. He also owns a chain of pubs including \"Alfie Hale's Bar\" in Ballybricken and \"Alfie Hale's Sports Bar\" on Lombard Street.\n\nIn December 2008, he settled with the Revenue Commissioners for over €100,000.\n\nAt the end of the 2012 League of Ireland season Hale is tenth in the all-time League of Ireland goalscoring list with 153 league goals.\n\nWaterford\n\n\nCork Celtic\n\n\nWaterford\n\n\nKilkenny City\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44567598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44567598", "title": "Atul Shah", "text": "Atul Shah\n\nAtul Shah is a businessman and entrepreneur in Kenya. He is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Nakumatt Holdings Limited, the parent company of Nakumatt Supermarkets, the largest, privately owned supermarket chain in the African Great Lakes area, with branches in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda. , the retail chain maintained 50 stores in four countries, employed over 7,000 people and had annual sales in excess of US$650 million.\n\nHe was born in Nandi Hills, Kenya in 1961. In 1965, when Atul was four years old, the family relocated to Nakuru. Atul's father, Mangalal Shah, who had migrated to Kenya from India in 1947, opened a retail clothing store opposite the Nakuru open air market. Atul' s older brother, Vimal started working in the business in 1970. In 1975 Mangalal began exporting clothing to Uganda, often on credit. Towards the end of 1976, with debtors behind on their payments and creditors demanding for their money, Atul's father declared bankruptcy, with total debts of KSh1.2 million. The store was closed and Mangalal went to work for his brother Hasmukh Shah, who then owned a shop called Nakuru Mattresses.\n\nFollowing the closure of their father's business, Atul Shah and his brother, Vimal Shah opened a clothing store that they named Furmatts, which among other things, sold bed sheets which the brothers stitched at home. In 1978, due to booming business, supported by the 1970s coffee boom in East Africa, the two sons and their father managed to pay off the KSh1.2 million debt. They bought Nakuru Mattress from their uncle, who relocated to the United Kingdom.\n\nUnder new ownership, Nakuru Mattress and Furmatts began integrating their operations. From two stores Nakuru town in 1978, they diversified the list of items on offer. In addition to clothes and mattresses, they began selling saucepans, cooking pots, plastic basins and umbrellas, among other products. In 1984, they opened a store in Eldoret, their first outside of Nakuru. In 1986 the retail chain expanded to Nairobi, with a store on Ukwala Road.\n\nOver the next 30 years, the supermarket chain has grown into the largest retailer in Kenya, with over 36 stores, employing over 4,500 people. In 2008, the retailer opened its first outlet outside of Kenya, in Kigali, Rwanda. New branches in neighboring Uganda followed in 2009. The first store in Tanzania came in 2011. The retail chain has plans to expand operations to Burundi and South Sudan in the next two to three years.\n\nIn 2013, Atul Shah is reported to have valued shareholders' equity in the retail chain at US$400 million (KSh34 billion at that time). The privately owned family business does not publish its financial statements. However, given that the family is the majority shareholder, Atul Shah is one of Kenya's wealthiest individuals.\n\nAtul Shah is married with two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6344015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6344015", "title": "Carl-Peter Forster", "text": "Carl-Peter Forster\n\nCarl-Peter Edmund Moriz Forster (born 9 May 1954, in London), is an English born German businessman. Forster was the group Chief Executive of Tata Motors between January, 2010 and 9 September 2011.\n\nBorn in London, Forster was raised in London, Bonn and Athens. His father was a German diplomat. Forster holds degrees in Economics from Bonn University, and in Aviation and Space Technology from Munich University of Technology.\n\nOn graduation in 1982, Forster joined McKinsey as a consultant in Munich.\n\nIn 1986, he joined BMW where he held various leadership positions before becoming Managing Director of BMW South Africa in 1996, and the board member responsible for all vehicle development projects in 1999.\n\nIn April 2001, Forster was appointed Chairman and Managing Director of Adam Opel AG. In June 2004 he became President of GM Europe, based in Zurich, Switzerland, and Chairman of the Opel Supervisory Board. In April 2005 he also became Chairman of Saab. On 1 January 2006, he was additionally appointed General Motors Group Vice President and a member of the GM Automotive Strategy Board, and took over the role as the senior-ranking executive for GM’s activities in Europe.\n\nOn November 3, 2009 General Motors announced that it would retain ownership of its Opel subsidiary . Forster commented about GM’s decision not to sell the units to Magna International:\n\nOn 6 November 2009 General Motors confirmed that Forster would be leaving all positions with GM Group globally.\n\nOn 15 February 2010 India's Tata Motors announced that Carl Peter Forster has been appointed as the group CEO with overall responsibility for Tata Motors globally, including that of its British unit Jaguar and Land Rover.\n\nFollowing a surprise announcement on Friday 9 September 2011 it was revealed that Carl-Peter would step down from his group CEO role due to 'unavoidable personal circumstances'. However, he remained on the Tata Motors board of directors in a non-Executive capacity.\n\nEx-Tata group CEO joined Gordon Murray design house.\n\nIn June 2014 it was announced that Forster had been appointed a non-executive director of the UK packaging conglomerate Rexam.\n\nForster is married and has three children and lives in Oxford.\n"}
{"id": "46407515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46407515", "title": "Carlos Tavares", "text": "Carlos Tavares\n\nCarlos Tavares (born on August 14 1958) is a Portuguese businessman who serves as the chief executive officer and Chairman of the Managing Board of Groupe PSA, France's largest car manufacturer. He was formerly the chief operating officer at Renault\n\nCarlos Tavares was born in 1958 in Portugal. He grew up in Lisbon. He graduated from the École Centrale Paris.\n\nTavares started his career at Renault in 1981. He was director of the Renault Mégane II project. \n\nHe then worked for the Nissan subsidiary of Renault. By 2009, he oversaw Nissan's presence in North and South America. \n\nBy 2011, he was chief operating officer for Renault, the number two executive under Carlos Ghosn, the chairman and chief executive officer of Renault and Nissan. Tavares had much in common with Ghosn, as both were \"raised in Portuguese-speaking environments. Both went on to graduate from French Grandes Ecoles and - perhaps less surprisingly - both like fast cars\". However, Tavares resigned from Renault on August 29, 2013, two weeks after publicly saying that he wanted to become CEO at an automaker, and Tavares reportedly refusing Ghosn's demand that he apologize to staff for the gaffe. It was said that Tavares was ambitious and sought more responsibilities at Renault, however Ghosn was only four years older and had no plans to step aside soon.\n\nTavares has served as the chief executive officer and Chairman of the Managing Board of Groupe PSA since 2014, replacing Philippe Varin. During his tenure, he has spearheaded cost-cutting measures and increased the company's market share in China, which returned Groupe PSA back to profitability after several years of losses.\n\nTavares has three children. He has been an amateur race car driver since the age of twenty-two. He has competed in the Rallye Monte-Carlo Historique. He also collects \"classic cars\" and owns a \"1979 Peugeot 504 V6 Coupé, a 1976 Alpine A110 and a Porsche 912 from 1966\".\n"}
{"id": "25364269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25364269", "title": "Caspian International Petroleum Company", "text": "Caspian International Petroleum Company\n\nCaspian International Petroleum Company (CIPCO) (Azerbaijani: \"Xəzər Beynəlxalq Neft Şirkəti\") was a joint operating company established by production shareholding companies for exploration, development and production sharing of the Karabakh field in the section of the Caspian Sea within Azerbaijan. \n\nIt was incorporated on 4 June 1996. The company was led by President James A. Tilley, who had been the President of \"Pennzoil Caspian\".\n\nShareholders of CIPCO had the following stakes in Karabakh field:\nThe company estimated an investment of up to $2 billion, if the feasibility studies proved the expectations for reserves. CIPCO spent nearly $100 million on feasibility studies. \n\nIn January 1999, the consortium management announced the project was not commercially feasible and as of 23 February 1999 it stopped its operations and was dissolved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18006285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18006285", "title": "Common Impact", "text": "Common Impact\n\nCommon Impact is an American nonprofit organization headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. It catalyzes a new, connected economy by aligning business and social purpose, connecting business professionals to local nonprofits that need assistance in information technology, marketing, human resources, operations and finance. Common Impact's model for social change involves social innovation, employee engagement, and corporate social responsibility.\n\nTheresa M. Ellis co-founded Common Impact in 2000 with Zach Goldstein, both graduates of Dartmouth College. Ellis helped connect her friend, an IT professional, to a Washington, D.C. nonprofit needing assistance with a database while she was working for another nonprofit. She founded Common Impact to help more corporate professionals volunteer their professional skills and help solve social problems in the areas of health, housing and education.\n\nMany of the projects between corporate employees and nonprofit organizations involve improving databases, creating new marketing materials and restructuring human resources tools. Before each project, Common Impact screens the nonprofit and matches it to a trained team of business professionals who are skilled in the project area. A few examples of projects include redesigning a website and evaluating marketing materials.\n\nCommon Impact \"helps nonprofits evaluate their internal operations. Then it finds corporate volunteers who can work with them to improve their technology, marketing, and human resource functions.\" These projects have generated over $6 million in resources for the nonprofit sector. Businesses are increasingly recognizing the importance of volunteering professional skills as more employees want to help their communities More than 400 corporate employees from companies such as Cisco, Genworth Financial, Fidelity Investments and State Street Corporation have volunteered their skills by working with Common Impact. Some examples of projects Fidelity Investments volunteers worked on are fundraising, case management, databases, and website design. The organization has connected business professionals to over 150 nonprofit organizations in Greater Boston, New York City, and Richmond, Virginia. The employee engagement relationships Common Impact fosters have translated into an estimated 9,000 hours of skilled volunteer time donated to nonprofit organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7458921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7458921", "title": "Downtown Spokane", "text": "Downtown Spokane\n\nRiverside, is a neighborhood that entirely comprises Downtown Spokane (the city's central business district), as well as the area immediately to the north of Riverfront Park. Riverside's rough boundaries are I-90 to the south, Division Street to the east, Maple Street to the west, and across the Spokane River north to Boone Avenue. Bridges (some of them pedestrian-only) span the river at nearly every block.\n\nThe Bank of America Financial Center, standing at tall, is the tallest building in Spokane. It was completed in 1981. The nearby Wells Fargo Center is the second tallest building (243 ft), and was completed in one year later 1982. Until 2006, with the construction of the Davenport Tower & Residences (an expansion of The Davenport Hotel), no other high-rise has gone up in Spokane.\n\nOther significant buildings in downtown include the Spokane Convention Center, the First Interstate Center for the Arts, and the Spokane Arena.\n\nThe topography of Riverside is mostly flat except for areas downstream of the Spokane Falls which are located in a canyon. South of Riverside slopes up to the South Hill, quite steeply in some places such as Pioneer Park, where long cliffs oriented east-west provide great views of Riverside, the North Side and Spokane Valley to the east.\n\nRiverside straddles Sprague Avenue, which divides the city into North and South. On the eastern end of Riverside, Division Street splits the city into East and West. I-90 is elevated through almost all of downtown, often with parking lots underneath, but occasional blocks are solid cement, forming a barrier at the southern end of Riverside. Immediately south of the Interstate the high density area continues into a growing medical district with Spokane's two largest hospitals, Sacred Heart and Deaconess.\n\nTo the west is one of Spokane's oldest and densest neighborhoods, Browne's Addition. In the photo, Browne's addition is the treed area in the foreground on the right. The left side of the foreground is the valley cut by the Spokane river immediately downstream of the falls; this is the small and similar neighborhood of Peaceful Valley.\n\nGonzaga University is located just upstream on the north side of the river from Riverside. Across the river from Gonzaga are the new University District home campuses of Eastern Washington University and Washington State University. Division Street separates Downtown from the University District.\n\nRiverside had undergone a major rebirth in the years before the recession, after the completion of the River Park Square Mall. The historic Davenport Hotel underwent a major renovation in 2002 after being vacant for over 20 years. The project was funded by local entrepreneur Walt Worthy, who also added a Safari-themed 20 story tower to the hotel in 2007. Other major projects include the Holley Mason Building - seen as the catalyst to Riverside's rebirth, the building of the Big Easy concert house (now renamed the Knitting Factory), the remodeling of the historic Montvale Hotel and Fox Theater (now home to the Spokane Symphony), numerous new condo buildings, and renovations of historic, older brick buildings that will soon house both condos and business. Also, the Spokane Convention Center just finished a major expansion which helped host the 2007 US Figure Skating Championships.\n\nRiverfront Park, created after Expo '74 and occupying the same site, is in Riverside and the site of some of Spokane's largest events. The park has views of the Spokane Falls, and holds a number of civic attractions, including a Skyride that is a rebuilt gondola that carries visitors across the falls from high above the river gorge, a 5-story IMAX theater, and a small amusement park (which is converted into an ice-skating rink during the winter months) with numerous rides and concessions. The park is host to a full schedule of family entertainment and events such as the Bloomsday Post-Race Celebration, Hoopfest, the IMAX Film Festival, Spokane Music Festival, Pig-Out in the Park, Restaurant Fair, Pow Wow, First Night Spokane, plus many outdoor concerts and other community activities. The Park also includes a hand-carved carousel created in 1909 by Charles I. D. Looff as a wedding present for his daughter. The carousel still operates in Riverfront Park, where riders can participate in an old-time ring toss. The carousel continues to offer a free ride to the rider who grabs the brass ring. Riverfront Park also includes ample views of the Spokane falls as well as other water features (some man-made) of the Spokane River.\n\nThe Downtown Core is the heart of Riverside and is generally considered to be the several block vicinity surrounding Spokane City Hall, River Park Square, the STA Plaza, and the Davenport Hotel. A majority of Spokane's high-rise buildings are located in this core area. Spokane's skywalk system also overlays the street grid and street life within the core, linking 14 blocks together. A number of downtown's retailers and restaurants are also located within the Downtown Core.\n\nRiverside's rich Entertainment District is home to some of the best restaurants, live entertainment venues, and hotels in Spokane. Located south and west of the Downtown Core, this area hosts many concerts, plays, galleries, and other shows. These events are hosted in a variety of venues including the Fox Theater, The Bing Crosby Theater, and The Knitting Factory. \n\nThe Arts and Entertainment District has a number of large historic buildings. Many of these buildings are hotels that have been beautifully renovated, and capture the charm of turn of the century Spokane. More recently, this area has become a hub for breweries. There are multiple tasting rooms between Lincoln and Cedar Street along First and Second Avenue, making it a popular destination for brewery tours.\n\nThe Convention Center District is situated to the east of the Downtown Core and is anchored by the Spokane Convention Center and First Interstate Center for the Arts. Its location is directly adjacent to Riverfront Park; an advantage that has been embraced through careful planning and architectural design of buildings in the district which allows the buildings to interface with the park, the river, and recreational trails (including the Centennial Trail) that run along it. The district was born out of Expo '74, which developed the original structure that ultimately became the IFirst Interstate Center for the Arts and the Spokane Convention Center. The convention center has been expanded several times since its original construction, stretching the bounds of the district farther east, where it ties into the University District.\n\nMuch of the other development around the Convention Center District stems from the Spokane Convention Center and the First Interstate Center for the Arts, including restaurants, retail, and hotels. Spokane's largest and tallest hotels, including the DoubleTree, Davenport Grand, and Red Lion Hotel at the Park are located in or immediately adjacent to the convention center district. The business types located around the Convention Center District provide a common overlap with businesses supporting the adjacent University District as well, helping to alleviate some of the \"urban dead zones\" that are all too commonly created when the convention centers - particularly large ones in major cities much larger than Spokane - are not in use.\n\nLocated along the southern edge of the West Central neighborhood just across the Spokane River from Downtown Spokane is Kendall Yards, a new urbanist community. Though not officially within the boundaries of Riverside, Kendall Yards plays a vital role in the culture and future of the downtown core by increasing the urban residential population in the immediate vicinity of it.\nThe neighborhood is one of the largest urban infill development projects in the city's history and has reclaimed a brownfield formerly occupied by rail yards. The site of Kendall Yards used to be the main entry point of the railroad into Riverside before alterations to the downtown area in preparations for Expo '74 relocated the railroads south of the Spokane River. The site sat vacant from that point on for another three decades until 2005, when a brownfield cleanup took place in preparations for the groundbreaking of the development. The cleanup, which won a US EPA award, took approximately one year and removed over 223,000 tons of contaminated soil from the site.\n\nThe initial proposal for Kendall Yards called for 2,600 residences and 1 million square feet of commercial space, worth up to $1 billion. The development broke ground in 2007, however, the impending Great Recession bankrupted the project's developer before any buildings were constructed. The now cleaned-up site continued to sit vacant for another few years until a Spokane-based developer, Greenstone Corp., purchased the site in 2009 and began construction in 2010. In response to the economic conditions at the time, the original plans for the development were scaled back; the proposed density, residential unit count, and commercial square footage were all reduced to approximately one-half of the original scope. However, the scaled-back plans did have its advantages; the development was more likely to be successful, the more land would be available for open green space, and the reduced density would be more compatible with the existing fabric of the adjacent West Central neighborhood to the north. Construction of the development is phased and is expected to be ongoing through the mid-2020s.\nDesigned on new urbanist principles, the plan and makeup of the neighborhood emphasizes mixed-use development, diversity of densities and housing types, open space, and walkability. Much of the neighborhood consists of multi-family structures of townhomes, condominiums, and apartments. There are also single-family detached homes, community gardens, free-standing commercial buildings, and mixed-use buildings (with ground-floor retail and apartment units above). Green and recreational space is also emphasized; the community includes parks, sidewalks, and plazas and also completed a long-awaited infill section of the Centennial Trail, extending it from Downtown through the entire site along the northern banks of the Spokane River Gorge.\n\nThe North Bank area is located to the north of the Spokane River and Riverfront Park. It is home to a variety of uses including civic, residential, shopping, dining, and lodging. Destinations include the Spokane Arena, the central YMCA/YWCA, Spokane Civic Theater, and Flour Mill. A number of businesses based on the North Bank are in the health, banking, hotel, and real estate industries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "965906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965906", "title": "Du Pont family", "text": "Du Pont family\n\nThe Du Pont family () is an American family descended from Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours (1739–1817). Since the 19th century, the Du Pont family has been one of the richest families in America.\n\nMany former Du Pont family estates have been opened to the public as museums, gardens, or parks, such as Nemours Mansion and Gardens, Longwood Gardens, and Winterthur Museum, Garden and Library. The family's first American estate, located at Hagley Museum and Library, has been designated a National Historic Landmark. In recent years, the family has continued to be known for its association with political and business ventures, as well as philanthropic efforts on behalf of various organizations such as The Jockey Club, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Delaware Art Museum, and the Grand Opera House.\n\nTwo family members were the subjects of well-publicized criminal cases. Heir John Eleuthère du Pont was convicted of murdering wrestling coach Dave Schultz in 1996 and heir Robert H. Richards IV was convicted of raping his 3-year-old daughter in 2009.\n\nThe family is depicted in the 2014 biographical film \"Foxcatcher\" with Steve Carell playing John Eleuthère du Pont and Vanessa Redgrave playing Jean du Pont, the wife of William du Pont, Jr.\n\nThe family fortune as of 2016 was $14.3 billion with over 3,500 living members around the world, most of whom are only marginally related.\n\nPierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours was the son of a Parisian watchmaker and a member of a Burgundian Huguenot family, and descendant of a minor noble family on his mother's side. He and his sons, Victor Marie du Pont and Éleuthère Irénée du Pont, emigrated from France in 1800 to the United States and used the resources of their Huguenot heritage to found one of the most prominent of American families, and one of its most successful corporations, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, initially established by Éleuthère Irénée as a gunpowder manufacturer.\n\nIn 1802, Éleuthère Irénée du Pont established a gunpowder mill on the banks of the Brandywine River near Wilmington, Delaware. The location provided all the necessities to operate the mill: a water flow sufficient to power it, available timber (mainly willow trees) that could be turned into charcoal fine enough to use for gunpowder, close proximity to the Delaware River to allow for shipments of sulfur and saltpeter, the other ingredients used in the manufacture of gunpowder. There were also nearby stone quarries to provide needed building materials.\n\nOver time the Du Pont company grew into the largest black powder manufacturing firm in the world. The family remained in control of the company up through the 1960s and family trusts still own a substantial amount of the company's stock. This and other companies run by the Du Pont family employed up to 10 percent of Delaware's population at its peak. During the 19th century, the Du Pont family maintained their family wealth by carefully arranged marriages between cousins which, at the time, was the norm for many families.\n\nThe family played a large part in politics during the 18th and 19th centuries and assisted in negotiations for the Treaty of Paris and the Louisiana purchase. Both T. Coleman and Henry A. du Pont served as U.S. senators, and Pierre S. du Pont, IV served as Governor of Delaware.\n\nThe family has also played an important role in historic preservation and land conservation, including helping to found the National Trust for Historic Preservation, preserving President James Madison's home Montpelier, and establishing numerous museums such as Winterthur and the Delaware Museum of Natural History. The Brandywine Conservancy founded by family member George Alexis Weymouth owns around of land in Pennsylvania and Delaware, and owns permanent conservation easements on an additional . In 2013, Lammot du Pont Copeland's Mt. Cuba Center contributed over $20 million to purchase land for donation to the federal government to form the First State National Historical Park.\n\nBeginning with William du Pont, Jr. and his sister, Marion duPont Scott, many members of the Du Pont family have been involved in the breeding and racing of thoroughbred racehorses, as well as establishing racehorse venues and training tracks.\n\nThe stylings “Dupont”, “DuPont”, du Pont\" and \"Du Pont\" for the family name have both been widely used in published writings. In many publications, the styling is \"du Pont\" when quoting an individual's full name and \"Du Pont\" when speaking of the family as a whole, although some individual Du Ponts have chosen to style it differently, such as Samuel Francis Du Pont. The name of the chemical company founded by the family is today styled solid as \"DuPont\" in the short form (but the long form is styled as E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company); the stylings \"Du Pont\" and \"DuPont\" for the company's short name coexisted in the 20th century, but the latter is now consistently used in the company's branding. The solid styling \"duPont\" is less common, but the Nemours Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children uses it, as does the duPont Registry. William S. Dutton's mid-20th-century history of the family business uses \"Du Pont\" both for the family mentioned generally and for the company's short name but \"du Pont\" in an individual's full name (for example, \"Éleuthère Irénée du Pont\", \"Henry du Pont\", \"Alfred Victor du Pont\", \"Lammot du Pont\"); for example, \"when he [Lammot du Pont] went to General Henry du Pont with the proposal that the Du Ponts manufacture dynamite, he was answered by a blunt and unqualified 'No!'\") The first page of Dutton's monograph contains the following footnote about the surname's styling (the mention of \"Samuel Dupont\" here refers to the 18th-century Parisian watchmaker, not to his 19th-century descendant): \"Samuel Dupont used this form of the family name [i.e., Dupont], but beginning in 1763 his son signed himself 'Du Pont.' Later, he added 'de Nemours' to his name to prevent confusion with two other Duponts in the French Chamber of Deputies. Du Pont, in English, is pronounced with the accent on the second syllable. In French, neither syllable is accented.\" \n\nFrench orthographic tradition for the styling of \"de\" (or its inflected forms) as a surname particle, in either nobiliary or non-nobiliary form, is discussed at \"Nobiliary particle \n§ France\". In non-nobiliary form, the prevalent French styling of the name is \"\", and thus the choice by Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours to begin styling himself so during the monarchical era hints at social ambition. But the influence of French orthography and prerevolutionary class structure on how English orthography styles surnames today is outweighed by how families and individuals so named style themselves.\n\nBelow is an alphabetical listing of selected notable members of the family. It is followed by a listing of their families in order of descent. The listing is intended only to illustrate the relationships among the notable members of the family and is not a complete genealogy. The only family groupings and lines of descent shown are those necessary to illustrate relationships for notable members of the family. By 1942 there were believed to be 705 direct descendants of Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours, and in the 21st century there are well more than 2,000 living members of the family.\n\nThe following list is not a complete genealogy, but is ordered by descent to show the familial relationships between members of the du Pont family throughout history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "692495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=692495", "title": "Edward Douglass White", "text": "Edward Douglass White\n\nEdward Douglass White Jr. (November 3, 1845 – May 19, 1921), American politician and jurist, was a United States Senator and the ninth Chief Justice of the United States. He served on the Supreme Court of the United States from 1894 to 1921. He is best known for formulating the \"Rule of Reason\" standard of antitrust law.\n\nBorn in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana, White practiced law in New Orleans after graduating from the University of Louisiana. His father, Edward Douglass White Sr., was the 10th Governor of Louisiana and a Whig Congressman. White fought for the Confederacy during the Civil War, and was captured in 1865. After the war, White won election to the Louisiana State Senate and served on the Louisiana Supreme Court. As a member of the Democratic Party, White represented Louisiana in the United States Senate from 1891 to 1894.\n\nIn 1894, President Grover Cleveland appointed White as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. In 1910, President William Howard Taft elevated him to the position of Chief Justice. The appointment surprised many contemporaries, as Taft was a member of the Republican Party. White served as Chief Justice until his death in 1921, when he was succeeded by Taft.\n\nHe was generally a conservative member of the court. He sided with the Supreme Court majority in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\", which upheld the legality of state segregation to provide \"separate but equal\" public facilities in the United States, despite protections of the Fourteenth Amendment to equal protection of the laws. In one of several challenges to Southern states' grandfather clauses, used to disfranchise African-American voters at the turn of the century, he wrote for a unanimous court in \"Guinn v. United States\", which struck down many Southern states' grandfather clauses. He also wrote the opinion in the \"Selective Draft Law Cases\", which upheld the constitutionality of conscription.\n\nWhite was born in 1845 in his parents' plantation house, now known as the Edward Douglass White House, near the town of Thibodauxville (now Thibodaux) in Lafourche Parish in south Louisiana. He was the son of Edward Douglass White Sr., a former governor of Louisiana, and Catherine Ringgold. He was a grandson of Dr. James White, a U.S. representative, physician, and judge.\n\nOn his mother's side, he was the grandson of Tench Ringgold, appointed as a U.S. marshal of the District of Columbia under the James Monroe and Andrew Jackson administrations. He was also related on his maternal side to the Lee family of Virginia. The White family's large plantation in Louisiana was based on cultivating and processing for market sugar cane, depending on the extensive labor of slaves.\n\nWhite's paternal ancestors were of Irish Catholic descent, and he was reared in that religion, a devout Roman Catholic his entire life. He studied first at the Jesuit College in New Orleans, then at Mount St. Mary's College near Emmitsburg, Maryland. Last, he attended Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., where he was a member of the Philodemic Society. After the American Civil War, he returned to academic work and studied law at the University of Louisiana (now Tulane University) in New Orleans.\n\nWhite's studies at Georgetown were interrupted by the Civil War. It has been suggested that he returned to Bayou Lafourche, where he purportedly enlisted as an infantryman in the Confederate States Army under General Richard Taylor and eventually attained the rank of lieutenant. This is questionable , as his widowed mother had remarried and was living with the rest of the family in New Orleans at the time. When he returned to Louisiana, it was probably to his primary home in New Orleans.\n\nAn apocryphal account states that White was almost captured by General Godfrey Weitzel's Union army when they invaded Bayou Lafourche in October 1862, but that he evaded capture by hiding beneath hay in a barn. It is possible that White enlisted in the Lafourche militia, as its muster rolls are not complete. There is no documentation, however, that White served in any Confederate volunteer unit or militia unit engaged in campaigns in the Lafourche area.\n\nAnother account suggests that he was assigned as an aide to Confederate General W. N. R. Beall and accompanied him to Port Hudson, Louisiana, which had a garrison of 18,000 Confederate soldiers, but a numerically superior Union force surrounded it. After a siege lasting from May 21 to July 8, 1863 (the longest siege in North American history), the Confederate forces unconditionally surrendered after learning of the fall of Vicksburg to the Union. White's presence at Port Hudson, when he was 18 years old, is supported by a secondhand account of a postwar dinner conversation he had with Senator Knute Nelson of Minnesota, a Union veteran of Port Hudson, and another recounted by Admiral George Dewey (then a Federal naval officer at Port Hudson), in both of which White referred to being part of the besieged forces. But, White's name does not appear on any list of prisoners captured at Port Hudson. According to another account of questionable reliability, White was supposedly sent to a Mississippi prisoner of war camp. (As practically all Confederate soldiers of enlisted rank of the Port Hudson garrison were paroled, and officers sent to prison in New Orleans and later to Johnson's Island, Ohio, this account is likely not true.) When White was paroled, he supposedly returned to the family plantation, to find it abandoned, the canefields barren, and the place nearly empty of most former slaves.\n\nThe only \"hard\" evidence of White's Confederate service consists of an account of his capture on March 12, 1865 in an action in Morganza in Pointe Coupee Parish, which is contained in the Official Records of the American Civil War, and his service records in the National Archives, documenting his subsequent imprisonment in New Orleans and parole in April 1865. These records confirm his service as a lieutenant in Captain W. B. Barrow's company of a Louisiana cavalry regiment, for all practical purposes a loosely organized band of irregulars or \"scouts\" (guerrillas). One organizing officer of this regiment, which was sometimes called \"Barrow's Regiment\" or the \"9th Louisiana Cavalry Regiment,\" was Major Robert Pruyn. Pruyn (a postwar mayor of Baton Rouge, Louisiana) served as courier relaying messages from Port Hudson's commander, General Franklin Gardner, to General Joseph E. Johnston, crossing the Union siege lines by swimming the Mississippi. Pruyn escaped from Port Hudson prior to its surrender in the same manner. According to another account, after White was paroled in April 1865 and following the surrender of the western Confederate forces, he ended his military career by walking (his clothing in rags) to a comrade's family home in Livonia in Pointe Coupee Parish.\n\nWhite's Civil War service was taken as a matter of common knowledge at the time of his initial nomination to the United States Supreme Court, and the \"Confederate Veteran\" periodical, published for the United Confederate Veterans, congratulated him upon his confirmation. White was one of three ex-Confederate soldiers to serve on the Supreme Court. The others were Associate Justices Lucius Quintus Cincinnatus Lamar (II) of Mississippi and Horace Harmon Lurton of Tennessee. The Court's other ex-Confederate, Associate Justice Howell Edmunds Jackson, had held a civil position under the Confederate government.\n\nWhite was a member of the Ku Klux Klan in the aftermath of the death of the Confederacy. Later, while on the Supreme Court, he approved of the film The Birth of a Nation, which helped reignite the Klan in the 1920s.\nIn 1877, White served on the Reception Committee of the Knights of Momus in New Orleans, whose widely condemned extreme political satire of Reconstruction and its aftermath earned even the vilification of the Krewe of Rex, according to The New Orleans newspaper \"The Republican\" of February 14, 1877.\n\nWhile living on his family's abandoned plantation, White began his legal studies. He enrolled at the University of Louisiana in New Orleans to complete his study of the law, at what is now known as the Tulane University Law School. He subsequently was admitted to the bar and commenced practice in New Orleans in 1868.\n\nWhite briefly served in the Louisiana State Senate in 1874, a year marked by interracial violence in political campaigns and elections. He was appointed as an Associate Justice of the Louisiana Supreme Court, serving from 1879 to 1880. He was politically affiliated with Governor Francis T. Nicholls, a former Confederate general who served 1877 to 1880, and later was elected again, serving 1888 to 1892.\n\nWhite later became famous in Louisiana for helping to abolish the Louisiana Lottery, considered a hotbed of corruption. A case challenging the lottery reached the state's Supreme Court, which in 1894 ordered the state to discontinue the gaming.\n\nThe state's legislature appointed White to the United States Senate in 1891 to succeed James B. Eustis. He served until his resignation on March 12, 1894, when he was nominated by President Grover Cleveland (D) to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States after the failed nominations of William B. Hornblower and Wheeler Hazard Peckham. In 1896 White sided with the six justices whose majority opinion in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" approved segregation. (One justice abstained, so only eight were voting.)\nIn 1910, he was elevated by President William Howard Taft to the position of Chief Justice of the United States upon the death of Melville Fuller. At the time, his was a controversial appointment: first, White was a Democrat while Taft was a Republican. The media of the day widely expected Taft to name Republican Justice Charles Evans Hughes to the post. Second, White was the first Associate Justice to be appointed as Chief Justice since John Rutledge in 1795. Some historians believe that President Taft appointed White, who was 65 years old at the time and overweight, in the hope that White would not serve all that long and that Taft himself might be appointed to succeed him. Following White's death in 1921, Taft was indeed appointed as his successor, making White the only Chief Justice to be followed in office by the president who appointed him.\n\nWhite was generally seen as one of the more conservative members of the court. He originated the term, the \"Rule of Reason.\" But, White also wrote the 1916 decision upholding the constitutionality of the Adamson Act, which mandated a maximum eight-hour work day for railroad employees.\n\nAs Chief Justice at a time when the Court's work was carried out with more than 8,000 cases brought each year before the court, and only a few clerks to work for all the members of the Court, the Chief Justice held weekly meetings with fellow jurists, assigned all the cases and wrote the majority opinions in 711 cases, as well as 155 dissenting opinions, all opposing income taxes. White wrote for a unanimous Court in \"Guinn v. United States\" (1915), which invalidated the Oklahoma and Maryland grandfather clauses (and, by extension, those in other Southern states) as \"repugnant to the Fifteenth Amendment and therefore null and void.\" But, Southern states quickly devised other methods to continue their disfranchisement of blacks (and in some cases, many poor whites) that withstood Court scrutiny.\n\nIn 1918, the \"Selective Draft Law Cases\" upheld the Selective Service Act of 1917, and more generally, upheld conscription in the United States, which President Taft said was \"one of his great opinions.\"\n\nAs Chief Justice, White swore in presidents Woodrow Wilson (twice) and Warren G. Harding.\n\nChief Justice White was one of thirteen Catholic justices of 112 total through the 2009 appointment of Justice Sonia Sotomayorin the history of the Supreme Court.\n\nWhite married Leita Montgomery Kent, the widow of Linden Kent, on November 6, 1894, in New York City.\n\nWhite died in office and his remains were buried at the Oak Hill Cemetery in Washington, D.C. The Georgetown graveyard overlooks Rock Creek; also interred there are Associate Justice Noah Swayne and \"almost-Justice\" Edwin M. Stanton. Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase was also buried there, but his body was transferred after 14 years to Cincinnati, Ohio's Spring Grove Cemetery.\n\n\n Retrieved on 2009-04-11\n\n"}
{"id": "13883731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13883731", "title": "Galaxy Award (Japan)", "text": "Galaxy Award (Japan)\n\nThis is a partial list of winners:\n\n"}
{"id": "4675328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4675328", "title": "Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (Canada)", "text": "Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (Canada)\n\nGenerally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) of Canada provides the framework of broad guidelines, conventions, rules and procedures of accounting.\n\nIn Canada, professional development paralleled that of the United States. In 1936, the Terminology Committee of the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (CICA) formed and was asked to take steps to encourage greater uniformity in the use of accounting terms by its members. In 1939, the establishment of a joint research program with Queen's University culminated in the establishment in 1946 of the Accounting and Auditing Research Committee. The aim of the committee was to improve the quality of judgement exercised in both accounting and auditing and to provide guidelines for communicating financial information and economic facts and for auditing procedures and techniques.\n\nIn 1973, the Accounting and Auditing Research Committee (AARC) gave way to two new committees – the Accounting Research Committee (ARC) and the Auditing Standards Committee (ASC). A deviation from prior policy was the invitation to other organizations to participate in ARC work by appointing up to six of its proposed members. The chief aim of the expanded structure is to continue the search for ways of increasing the thrust and scope of accounting and auditing research. In 1982, ARCs name was changed to the Accounting Standards Committee (ASC) and in 1991 to the Accounting Standards Board (AcSB).\n\nFor a number of years prior to 1968, the Research Committee issued bulletins on financial disclosure, accounting principles, terminology, reporting and auditing procedures. In 1968, these bulletins were consolidated to form a major part of the CICA Handbook. Since 1968, the Handbook has been constantly updated by inclusion of approved exposure drafts on various current topics.\n\nThe handbook is currently updated by a number of groups, including the AcSB for profit and not for profit organizations, the Public Sector Accounting Standards board for the public sector, and the Auditing Standards Board for the auditing sections.\n\nIn early 2006, the AcSB decided to completely converge Canadian GAAP with international GAAP, i.e. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as set by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), for most entities that must follow AcSB standards. For publicly accountable enterprises, IFRS will become mandatory in Canada for fiscal periods beginning after January 1, 2011. Privately accountable enterprises will have the option of adopting IFRS, or a new set of standards called Accounting Standard for Private Enterprises (ASPE).\n\nTo develop financial accounting in Canada a group of organizations influence its evolution: The Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (CICA), the Certified General Accountants (CGA), the Society of Management Accountants of Canada (CMA), and the Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA).\n\nThese groups' activities have shaped accounting thought through:\n\n\nParticularly active in monograph publication is the Canadian Certified General Accountants' Research Foundation incorporated in 1979 to foster and promote the advancement of education and research in accounting. The association also publishes the GAAP Guide, which summarizes and compares Canadian, United States and international accounting standards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33397463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33397463", "title": "Georgia Statewide Minority Business Enterprise Center", "text": "Georgia Statewide Minority Business Enterprise Center\n\nThe Georgia Statewide Minority Business Enterprise Center is funded by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) and operated by the Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2). The MBDA Business Center (MBC), Atlanta, Ga., is part of a national network of centers established to increase the number of minority-owned businesses and strengthen existing ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "6687133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6687133", "title": "Gerry Robinson", "text": "Gerry Robinson\n\nSir Gerrard Jude \"Gerry\" Robinson (born 23 October 1948, Dunfanaghy, County Donegal, Ireland) is an Irish-born British business executive and television presenter. He is the former non-executive Chairman of Allied Domecq and the ex-Chairman/chief executive of Granada.\n\nThe ninth of 10 children born to Anthony and Elizabeth Robinson, an Irish father and a Scottish mother, Robinson moved with his family to England from County Donegal in his early teens. He briefly trained to become a Catholic priest at St. Mary's Seminary of the Holy Ghost Fathers at Castlehead, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire. He began a career in accounting in 1965 as a clerk with the Matchbox Toys company. While with the firm, he progressed through various accounting roles to become Chief Management Accountant in 1974. He also, during that time, qualified as an Associate Chartered Management Accountant.\n\nIn 1974, he left Matchbox to work for Lex Vehicle Leasing as a management accountant. He then rose through the company before being appointed finance director. In 1980, he joined the UK franchise of Coca-Cola, owned at that time by Grand Metropolitan. In 1983 he was appointed managing director of Grand Metropolitan's international services division. In 1987 he led the successful £163m management buyout of the loss-making contract services and catering division of Compass Group, known as Compass Caterers. He joined Granada as CEO in 1991, and soon ousted Granada's chairman, David Plowright in 1992, which led John Cleese to call Robinson \"an upstart caterer \".\n\nRobinson steered the company through various mergers, and hostile takeovers including London Weekend Television (1993) and Forte Group (1996). In 1999 Robinson was the subject of a biography, \"Lord of the Dance\", written by business journalist William Kay, and published by Orion Business Books . In 2005 he made an unsuccessful attempt to oust Doug Flynn as CEO of Rentokil Initial and install himself as Executive chairman for a 5% stake in the company, then valued at £56M. \n\nRobinson's first foray into broadcasting was a revival of the BBC's \"Troubleshooter\" show, originally fronted by Sir John Harvey-Jones in the early 1990s. Titled \"I'll Show Them Who's Boss\" and co-produced by the Open University, in 2004 he went into struggling businesses to try to turn them round by advice and mentoring.\n\nIn January 2007 following a similar format, he presented a three-part series, \"Can Gerry Robinson Fix the NHS?\" as he attempted to reduce waiting lists at Rotherham General Hospital. He returned a year later for a sequel, \"Can Gerry Robinson Fix the NHS? One Year On\". In December 2009, Robinson presented a programme in a similar format entitled \"Can Gerry Robinson Fix Dementia Care Homes?\".\n\nIn June 2009 he presented a special edition of \"The Money Programme\" entitled \"Gerry Robinson's Car Crash\" investigating the history and future of the British motor industry. He regularly appears on British TV as a celebrity businessman. In July 2009 he started a TV series called \"Gerry's Big Decision\", in which he reviews struggling companies and decides whether it is worth investing his own money to save them.\nFrom 14 January – 18 February 2011 he presented BBC2 show \"Can't Take It with You\", which helps people to write their wills.\n\nRobinson also served as chairman of the Arts Council England for six years from 1998, in which capacity he was one of the many victims of a spoof by British comedian Ali G.\n\nRobinson has divorced and remarried and has four children. He lives in Raphoe,Co Donegal ; he established a botanical garden with a narrow gauge railway – the Difflin Lake Railway – which is open to the public.\n\nAlthough originally a Conservative Party supporter, he supported Tony Blair and starred in a Labour Party election broadcast, saying that \"... frankly, there's only one party that can represent Britain best, getting business right, and that's New Labour\".\n\nIn June 2008, Robinson was one of four Labour donors who expressed their concerns with Gordon Brown's leadership and stated he would not be contributing any more money to the Labour Party until there was a change of leader. He had donated some £70,000 to the party between 2001 and 2005.\n\nHe was knighted in the 2004 New Year Honours List.\n\n"}
{"id": "8835809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8835809", "title": "Global Data Synchronization Network", "text": "Global Data Synchronization Network\n\nThe Global Data Synchronization Network (GDSN) is an internet-based, interconnected network of interoperable data pools and a global registry known as the GS1 Global Registry, that enables companies around the globe to exchange standardised and synchronised supply chain data with their trading partners using a standardised Global Product Classification.\n\nGDSN assures that data exchanged between trading partners is accurate and compliant with universally supported standards. GDSN consists of supplier/retailer trading partner, data pools that hold and process trading partner data and the GS1 Global Registry, a directory that helps locate data sources and keep relationships between trading partners in sync.\n\nThe Global Location Number (GLN) and the Global Trade Item Number (GTIN) are the global identification numbers in the GDSN. The GLN is the identifier for legal entities, trading partners and locations while the GTIN is the identifiers for trade items.\n\n"}
{"id": "25385347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25385347", "title": "Haim Kaufman", "text": "Haim Kaufman\n\nHaim Kaufman (, 12 December 1934 – 7 August 1995) was an Israeli politician who served as a member of the Knesset for Likud between 1977 and 1988, and again from 1990 until his death in 1995.\n\nBorn in Tel Aviv during the Mandate era, Leket served in the Artillery Corps during his national service in the IDF. He studied law at the School of Law and Economics in Tel Aviv, and later worked as a corporate director.\n\nA member of Herut, Kaufman chaired the party's youth group and the Dor Hemsheh group within it. He was on the Likud list (an alliance of Herut and several other right-wing parties) for the 1973 elections, but failed to win a seat. However, he entered the Knesset on 19 January 1977 as a replacement for Binyamin Halevi, He was re-elected in the May 1977 elections, and again in 1981 and 1984, serving as Deputy Minister of Finance between 1981 and 1984. He became a member of the Likud secretariat and chairman of its municipal branch, as well as chairing the party's Petah Tikva branch and editing the party magazine \"BeEretz Yisrael\".\n\nAlthough he lost his seat in the 1988 elections, Kaufman returned to the Knesset on 8 October 1990 as a replacement for Zalman Shoval. He retained his seat in the 1992 elections, but died in office on 7 August 1995. His seat was taken by Yosef Ahimeir.\n"}
{"id": "17945707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17945707", "title": "Hani Sarie-Eldin", "text": "Hani Sarie-Eldin\n\nHani Sarie-Eldin is an Egyptian lawyer and writer. He has published many articles and books in English and Arabic focusing on law, economic development and how economic reform is not possible without institutional and social reform to turn policies and visions into reality.\n\nHe has been chairman of the Capital Market Authority of Egypt.\n\nSarie-Eldin has numerous legal publications in Arabic and English.\n\n\n\nSarie-Eldin has written many research articles in Arabic, some of which have been translated to English and French.\n\n"}
{"id": "252754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252754", "title": "Herminie Cadolle", "text": "Herminie Cadolle\n\nHerminie Cadolle (1845–1926) was the French inventor of the modern bra and founder of the Cadolle lingerie house.\n\nCadolle was a close friend of the French insurrectionist Louise Michel, and it was this connection that led her to leave for the safety of Buenos Aires. Here, in 1887, Herminie opened a shop selling made-to-measure underwear.\n\nReturning to Paris in 1889, she opened a similar lingerie workshop on the street \"Chaussée d'Antin\", where she invented a two-piece undergarment called \"le bien-être\" (the wellbeing). The lower part was a corset for the waist and the upper supported the breasts by means of shoulder straps. She exhibited at the Great Exposition of 1900 and by 1905 the upper half was being sold separately as a \"soutien-gorge\" (literally, \"support for the throat\", but \"gorge\" in old French meant breast), the name by which bras are still known in France.\n\nHerminie became a fitter of bras to queens, princesses, dancers, and actresses. Mata Hari was among her customers. She was also the first to use cloth incorporating rubber (elastic) thread. Cadolle's business is still running today.\n\n"}
{"id": "5219699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5219699", "title": "Human Genome Project", "text": "Human Genome Project\n\nThe Human Genome Project (HGP) was an international scientific research project with the goal of determining the sequence of nucleotide base pairs that make up human DNA, and of identifying and mapping all of the genes of the human genome from both a physical and a functional standpoint. It remains the world's largest collaborative biological project. After the idea was picked up in 1984 by the US government when the planning started, the project formally launched in 1990 and was declared complete on April 14, 2003. Funding came from the US government through the National Institutes of Health (NIH) as well as numerous other groups from around the world. A parallel project was conducted outside government by the Celera Corporation, or Celera Genomics, which was formally launched in 1998. Most of the government-sponsored sequencing was performed in twenty universities and research centers in the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, France, Germany, Spain and China.\n\nThe Human Genome Project originally aimed to map the nucleotides contained in a human haploid reference genome (more than three billion). The \"genome\" of any given individual is unique; mapping the \"human genome\" involved sequencing a small number of individuals and then assembling these together to get a complete sequence for each chromosome. Therefore, the finished human genome is a mosaic, not representing any one individual.\n\nThe Human Genome Project was a 15-year-long, publicly funded project initiated in 1990 with the objective of determining the DNA sequence of the entire euchromatic human genome within 15 years. In May 1985, Robert Sinsheimer organized a workshop to discuss sequencing the human genome, but for a number of reasons the NIH was uninterested in pursuing the proposal. The following March, the Santa Fe Workshop was organized by Charles DeLisi and David Smith of the Department of Energy's Office of Health and Environmental Research (OHER). At the same time Renato Dulbecco proposed whole genome sequencing in an essay in Science. James Watson followed two months later with a workshop held at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.\n\nThe fact that the Santa Fe workshop was motivated and supported by a Federal Agency opened a path, albeit a difficult and tortuous one, for converting the idea into a public policy in the United States. In a memo to the Assistant Secretary for Energy Research (Alvin Trivelpiece), Charles DeLisi, who was then Director of the OHER, outlined a broad plan for the project. This started a long and complex chain of events which led to approved reprogramming of funds that enabled the OHER to launch the Project in 1986, and to recommend the first line item for the HGP, which was in President Reagan's 1988 budget submission, and ultimately approved by the Congress. Of particular importance in Congressional approval was the advocacy of Senator Peter Domenici, whom DeLisi had befriended. Domenici chaired the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, as well as the Budget Committee, both of which were key in the DOE budget process. Congress added a comparable amount to the NIH budget, thereby beginning official funding by both agencies.\n\nAlvin Trivelpiece sought and obtained the approval of DeLisi's proposal by Deputy Secretary William Flynn Martin. This chart was used in the spring of 1986 by Trivelpiece, then Director of the Office of Energy Research in the Department of Energy, to brief Martin and Under Secretary Joseph Salgado regarding his intention to reprogram $4 million to initiate the project with the approval of Secretary Herrington. This reprogramming was followed by a line item budget of $16 million in the Reagan Administration’s 1987 budget submission to Congress. It subsequently passed both Houses. The Project was planned for 15 years.\n\nCandidate technologies were already being considered for the proposed undertaking at least as early as 1985.\n\nIn 1990, the two major funding agencies, DOE and NIH, developed a memorandum of understanding in order to coordinate plans and set the clock for the initiation of the Project to 1990. At that time, David Galas was Director of the renamed “Office of Biological and Environmental Research” in the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Science and James Watson headed the NIH Genome Program. In 1993, Aristides Patrinos succeeded Galas and Francis Collins succeeded James Watson, assuming the role of overall Project Head as Director of the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) National Center for Human Genome Research (which would later become the National Human Genome Research Institute). A working draft of the genome was announced in 2000 and the papers describing it were published in February 2001. A more complete draft was published in 2003, and genome \"finishing\" work continued for more than a decade.\n\nThe $3-billion project was formally founded in 1990 by the US Department of Energy and the National Institutes of Health, and was expected to take 15 years. In addition to the United States, the international consortium comprised geneticists in the United Kingdom, France, Australia, China and myriad other spontaneous relationships. Considering the inflation, the project roughly costed $5 billion.\n\nDue to widespread international cooperation and advances in the field of genomics (especially in sequence analysis), as well as major advances in computing technology, a 'rough draft' of the genome was finished in 2000 (announced jointly by U.S. President Bill Clinton and the British Prime Minister Tony Blair on June 26, 2000). This first available rough draft assembly of the genome was completed by the Genome Bioinformatics Group at the University of California, Santa Cruz, primarily led by then graduate student Jim Kent. Ongoing sequencing led to the announcement of the essentially complete genome on April 14, 2003, two years earlier than planned. In May 2006, another milestone was passed on the way to completion of the project, when the sequence of the last chromosome was published in \"Nature\".\n\nThe project was not able to sequence all the DNA found in human cells. It sequenced only \"euchromatic\" regions of the genome, which make up 92% of the human genome. The other regions, called \"heterochromatic\", are found in centromeres and telomeres, and were not sequenced under the project.\n\nThe Human Genome Project was declared complete in April 2003. An initial rough draft of the human genome was available in June 2000 and by February 2001 a working draft had been completed and published followed by the final sequencing mapping of the human genome on April 14, 2003. Although this was reported to cover 99% of the euchromatic human genome with 99.99% accuracy, a major quality assessment of the human genome sequence was published on May 27, 2004 indicating over 92% of sampling exceeded 99.99% accuracy which was within the intended goal. Further analyses and papers on the HGP continue to occur.\n\nIn March 2009, the Genome Reference Consortium (GRC) released a more accurate version of the human genome, but that still left more than 300 gaps.\n\nIn October 2018, the GRC still indicated 514 gaps, most of which are annotated as \"stalled\" or \"under investigation/review\", so it seems they will not be resolved any time soon.\n\nThe sequencing of the human genome holds benefits for many fields, from molecular medicine to human evolution. The Human Genome Project, through its sequencing of the DNA, can help us understand diseases including: genotyping of specific viruses to direct appropriate treatment; identification of mutations linked to different forms of cancer; the design of medication and more accurate prediction of their effects; advancement in forensic applied sciences; biofuels and other energy applications; agriculture, animal husbandry, bioprocessing; risk assessment; bioarcheology, anthropology and evolution. Another proposed benefit is the commercial development of genomics research related to DNA based products, a multibillion-dollar industry.\n\nThe sequence of the DNA is stored in databases available to anyone on the Internet. The U.S. National Center for Biotechnology Information (and sister organizations in Europe and Japan) house the gene sequence in a database known as GenBank, along with sequences of known and hypothetical genes and proteins. Other organizations, such as the UCSC Genome Browser at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and Ensembl present additional data and annotation and powerful tools for visualizing and searching it. Computer programs have been developed to analyze the data, because the data itself is difficult to interpret without such programs. Generally speaking, advances in genome sequencing technology have followed Moore’s Law, a concept from computer science which states that integrated circuits can increase in complexity at an exponential rate. This means that the speeds at which whole genomes can be sequenced can increase at a similar rate, as was seen during the development of the above-mentioned Human Genome Project.\n\nThe process of identifying the boundaries between genes and other features in a raw DNA sequence is called genome annotation and is in the domain of bioinformatics. While expert biologists make the best annotators, their work proceeds slowly, and computer programs are increasingly used to meet the high-throughput demands of genome sequencing projects. Beginning in 2008, a new technology known as RNA-seq was introduced that allowed scientists to directly sequence the messenger RNA in cells. This replaced previous methods of annotation, which relied on inherent properties of the DNA sequence, with direct measurement, which was much more accurate. Today, annotation of the human genome and other genomes relies primarily on deep sequencing of the transcripts in every human tissue using RNA-seq. These experiments have revealed that over 90% of genes contain at least one and usually several alternative splice variants, in which the exons are combined in different ways to produce 2 or more gene products from the same locus.\n\nThe genome published by the HGP does not represent the sequence of every individual's genome. It is the combined mosaic of a small number of anonymous donors, all of European origin. The HGP genome is a scaffold for future work in identifying differences among individuals. Subsequent projects sequenced the genomes of multiple distinct ethnic groups, though as of today there is still only one \"reference genome.\"\n\nKey findings of the draft (2001) and complete (2004) genome sequences include:\n\n\nThe Human Genome Project was started in 1990 with the goal of sequencing and identifying all three billion chemical units in the human genetic instruction set, finding the genetic roots of disease and then developing treatments. It is considered a megaproject because the human genome has approximately 3.3 billion base pairs. With the sequence in hand, the next step was to identify the genetic variants that increase the risk for common diseases like cancer and diabetes.\n\nIt was far too expensive at that time to think of sequencing patients’ whole genomes. So the National Institutes of Health embraced the idea for a \"shortcut\", which was to look just at sites on the genome where many people have a variant DNA unit. The theory behind the shortcut was that, since the major diseases are common, so too would be the genetic variants that caused them. Natural selection keeps the human genome free of variants that damage health before children are grown, the theory held, but fails against variants that strike later in life, allowing them to become quite common (In 2002 the National Institutes of Health started a $138 million project called the HapMap to catalog the common variants in European, East Asian and African genomes).\n\nThe genome was broken into smaller pieces; approximately 150,000 base pairs in length. These pieces were then ligated into a type of vector known as \"bacterial artificial chromosomes\", or BACs, which are derived from bacterial chromosomes which have been genetically engineered. The vectors containing the genes can be inserted into bacteria where they are copied by the bacterial DNA replication machinery. Each of these pieces was then sequenced separately as a small \"shotgun\" project and then assembled. The larger, 150,000 base pairs go together to create chromosomes. This is known as the \"hierarchical shotgun\" approach, because the genome is first broken into relatively large chunks, which are then mapped to chromosomes before being selected for sequencing.\n\nFunding came from the US government through the National Institutes of Health in the United States, and a UK charity organization, the Wellcome Trust, as well as numerous other groups from around the world. The funding supported a number of large sequencing centers including those at Whitehead Institute, the Wellcome Sanger Institute (then called The Sanger Centre) based at the Wellcome Genome Campus, Washington University in St. Louis, and Baylor College of Medicine.\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) served as an important channel for the involvement of developing countries in the Human Genome Project.\n\nIn 1998, a similar, privately funded quest was launched by the American researcher Craig Venter, and his firm Celera Genomics. Venter was a scientist at the NIH during the early 1990s when the project was initiated. The $300,000,000 Celera effort was intended to proceed at a faster pace and at a fraction of the cost of the roughly $3 billion publicly funded project. The Celera approach was able to proceed at a much more rapid rate, and at a lower cost than the public project because it relied upon data made available by the publicly funded project.\n\nCelera used a technique called whole genome shotgun sequencing, employing pairwise end sequencing, which had been used to sequence bacterial genomes of up to six million base pairs in length, but not for anything nearly as large as the three billion base pair human genome.\n\nCelera initially announced that it would seek patent protection on \"only 200–300\" genes, but later amended this to seeking \"intellectual property protection\" on \"fully-characterized important structures\" amounting to 100–300 targets. The firm eventually filed preliminary (\"place-holder\") patent applications on 6,500 whole or partial genes.\nCelera also promised to publish their findings in accordance with the terms of the 1996 \"Bermuda Statement\", by releasing new data annually (the HGP released its new data daily), although, unlike the publicly funded project, they would not permit free redistribution or scientific use of the data. The publicly funded competitors were compelled to release the first draft of the human genome before Celera for this reason. On July 7, 2000, the UCSC Genome Bioinformatics Group released a first working draft on the web. The scientific community downloaded about 500 GB of information from the UCSC genome server in the first 24 hours of free and unrestricted access.\n\nIn March 2000, President Clinton announced that the genome sequence could not be patented, and should be made freely available to all researchers. The statement sent Celera's stock plummeting and dragged down the biotechnology-heavy Nasdaq. The biotechnology sector lost about $50 billion in market capitalization in two days.\n\nAlthough the working draft was announced in June 2000, it was not until February 2001 that Celera and the HGP scientists published details of their drafts. Special issues of \"Nature\" (which published the publicly funded project's scientific paper) and \"Science\" (which published Celera's paper) described the methods used to produce the draft sequence and offered analysis of the sequence. These drafts covered about 83% of the genome (90% of the euchromatic regions with 150,000 gaps and the order and orientation of many segments not yet established). In February 2001, at the time of the joint publications, press releases announced that the project had been completed by both groups. Improved drafts were announced in 2003 and 2005, filling in to approximately 92% of the sequence currently.\n\nIn the IHGSC international public-sector HGP, researchers collected blood (female) or sperm (male) samples from a large number of donors. Only a few of many collected samples were processed as DNA resources. Thus the donor identities were protected so neither donors nor scientists could know whose DNA was sequenced. DNA clones from many different libraries were used in the overall project, with most of those libraries being created by Pieter J. de Jong's. Much of the sequence (>70%) of the reference genome produced by the public HGP came from a single anonymous male donor from Buffalo, New York (code name RP11).\n\nHGP scientists used white blood cells from the blood of two male and two female donors (randomly selected from 20 of each) – each donor yielding a separate DNA library. One of these libraries (RP11) was used considerably more than others, due to quality considerations. One minor technical issue is that male samples contain just over half as much DNA from the sex chromosomes (one X chromosome and one Y chromosome) compared to female samples (which contain two X chromosomes). The other 22 chromosomes (the autosomes) are the same for both sexes.\n\nAlthough the main sequencing phase of the HGP has been completed, studies of DNA variation continued in the International HapMap Project, whose goal was to identify patterns of single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) groups (called haplotypes, or “haps”). The DNA samples for the HapMap came from a total of 270 individuals: Yoruba people in Ibadan, Nigeria; Japanese people in Tokyo; Han Chinese in Beijing; and the French Centre d’Etude du Polymorphisme Humain (CEPH) resource, which consisted of residents of the United States having ancestry from Western and Northern Europe.\n\nIn the Celera Genomics private-sector project, DNA from five different individuals were used for sequencing. The lead scientist of Celera Genomics at that time, Craig Venter, later acknowledged (in a public letter to the journal \"Science\") that his DNA was one of 21 samples in the pool, five of which were selected for use.\n\nIn 2007, a team led by Jonathan Rothberg published James Watson's entire genome, unveiling the six-billion-nucleotide genome of a single individual for the first time.\n\nThe work on interpretation and analysis of genome data is still in its initial stages. It is anticipated that detailed knowledge of the human genome will provide new avenues for advances in medicine and biotechnology. Clear practical results of the project emerged even before the work was finished. For example, a number of companies, such as Myriad Genetics, started offering easy ways to administer genetic tests that can show predisposition to a variety of illnesses, including breast cancer, hemostasis disorders, cystic fibrosis, liver diseases and many others. Also, the etiologies for cancers, Alzheimer's disease and other areas of clinical interest are considered likely to benefit from genome information and possibly may lead in the long term to significant advances in their management.\n\nThere are also many tangible benefits for biologists. For example, a researcher investigating a certain form of cancer may have narrowed down their search to a particular gene. By visiting the human genome database on the World Wide Web, this researcher can examine what other scientists have written about this gene, including (potentially) the three-dimensional structure of its product, its function(s), its evolutionary relationships to other human genes, or to genes in mice or yeast or fruit flies, possible detrimental mutations, interactions with other genes, body tissues in which this gene is activated, and diseases associated with this gene or other datatypes. Further, deeper understanding of the disease processes at the level of molecular biology may determine new therapeutic procedures. Given the established importance of DNA in molecular biology and its central role in determining the fundamental operation of cellular processes, it is likely that expanded knowledge in this area will facilitate medical advances in numerous areas of clinical interest that may not have been possible without them.\n\nThe analysis of similarities between DNA sequences from different organisms is also opening new avenues in the study of evolution. In many cases, evolutionary questions can now be framed in terms of molecular biology; indeed, many major evolutionary milestones (the emergence of the ribosome and organelles, the development of embryos with body plans, the vertebrate immune system) can be related to the molecular level. Many questions about the similarities and differences between humans and our closest relatives (the primates, and indeed the other mammals) are expected to be illuminated by the data in this project.\n\nThe project inspired and paved the way for genomic work in other fields, such as agriculture. For example, by studying the genetic composition of Tritium aestivum, the world’s most commonly used bread wheat, great insight has been gained into the ways that domestication has impacted the evolution of the plant. Which loci are most susceptible to manipulation, and how does this play out in evolutionary terms? Genetic sequencing has allowed these questions to be addressed for the first time, as specific loci can be compared in wild and domesticated strains of the plant. This will allow for advances in genetic modification in the future which could yield healthier, more disease-resistant wheat crops.\n\nAt the onset of the Human Genome Project several ethical, legal, and social concerns were raised in regards to how increased knowledge of the human genome could be used to discriminate against people. One of the main concerns of most individuals was the fear that both employers and health insurance companies would refuse to hire individuals or refuse to provide insurance to people because of a health concern indicated by someone's genes. In 1996 the United States passed the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) which protects against the unauthorized and non-consensual release of individually identifiable health information to any entity not actively engaged in the provision of healthcare services to a patient.\n\nAlong with identifying all of the approximately 20,000–25,000 genes in the human genome, the Human Genome Project also sought to address the ethical, legal, and social issues that were created by the onset of the project. For that the Ethical, Legal, and Social Implications (ELSI) program was founded in 1990. Five percent of the annual budget was allocated to address the ELSI arising from the project. This budget started at approximately $1.57 million in the year 1990, but increased to approximately $18 million in the year 2014.\n\nWhilst the project may offer significant benefits to medicine and scientific research, some authors have emphasized the need to address the potential social consequences of mapping the human genome. \"Molecularising disease and their possible cure will have a profound impact on what patients expect from medical help and the new generation of doctors' perception of illness.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23634091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23634091", "title": "Income (United States legal definitions)", "text": "Income (United States legal definitions)\n\nIn U.S. business and financial accounting, the income is generally defined by GAAP and the Financial Accounting Standards Board as: \nRevenues - Expenses; however, many people use it as shorthand for \"net\" income, which is the amount of money that a company earns after covering all of its costs as well as taxes. \n\nNet income is also called net profit. It is calculated as follows:\n\n\nNet income or net profit which is not expended to shareholders in the form of dividends becomes part of retained earnings.\n\nAll public companies are required to provide financial statements on a quarterly basis, and the income statement of income is one of the most important of these. Some companies also provide a more rosy financial report of their income, with \"pro forma\" reporting, or, EBITDA reporting. \"Pro forma\" income is an estimate of how much the company would have earned without including the negative effect of exceptional \"one-time events\", supposedly in order to show investors how much money the company would have made under normal circumstances if these exceptional, one-time events had not occurred. Critics charge that, in most cases, the \"one-time events\" are normal business events, such as an acquisition of another company or a write off of a cancelled project or division, and that \"pro forma\" reporting is an attempt to mislead investors by painting a rosy financial picture. Besides that, when discussing results with analysts and shareholders, CEOs and CFOs have a tendency to do even more \"hypothetical accounting\". EBITDA stands for \"earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation\", and is also criticised for being an attempt to mislead investors. Warren Buffett has criticised EBITDA reporting, famously asking, \"Does management think the tooth fairy pays for capital expenditures?\" \n\nIt is common for some other companies, such as real estate investment trusts, to present reports using a standard called FFO, or \"Funds From Operations\". Like EBITDA reporting, FFO ignores depreciation and amortization. This is widely accepted in the industry, as real estate values tend to increase rather than decrease over time, and many data sites report earnings per share data using FFO.\n"}
{"id": "48515986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48515986", "title": "Isaac Benayon Sabba", "text": "Isaac Benayon Sabba\n\nIsaac Benayon Sabba (Arabic: إسحاق بن آيون صباغ ; Portuguese: Isaac Benayon Sabbá; Hebrew: יצחק בניון שבח; February 12, 1907 – March 22, 1996) was a Brazilian entrepreneur, founder of the IB Sabbá Ltda. group and Petroleo Sabbá S.A., the largest business group operating on the Brazilian Amazon region during the twentieth century.\n\nIsaac Sabbá was born into a Jewish family of Moroccan origin, he was the third son among five children of Primo Sabbá and Fortunata (née.Benayon) Sabbá. His father was son of Moroccan immigrants born in Cametá when it was the capital of the state of Grão-Pará. His mother was born in Faro, Portugal her parents were both Jewish immigrants from Morocco.\n\nHis family moved Manaus for his older sister wedding, because his future brother in law had offered employment, he was 12. Soon began working as an office assistant representation of his brother in law. The workload did not allow him to study, interrupting their school life in the second grade.However, he reserved his spare time for reading, a habit that he cultivated all his life.\n\nSabbá founded the firm IB Sabbá, an exporting firm and later changing the name to IB Sabbá & Cia. Ltda. his most successful company was the Petróleo Sabbá, the company had the participation of his nephew Moyses Israel.\n\nThe group had diversified its business portfolio created over 42 factories, as FiteJuta (beneficiation Jute), alligator leather benefiting Co., oil refinery and distribution of petrol .They exported rosewood, Brazil nut, Oil refinery among other products of the extractive industry.\n\nIn 1930 he joined in partnership with one of his brothers, and founded the firm J.Sabbá representations & Cia. He soon realized the limited potential of this line of business, and moved to an export firm. Began, then a sort of interstate commerce while exporting firms of Amazonas then existing employed its activities almost exclusively in foreign trade.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II, the Federal Government established the monopoly of rubber, a time when Isaac Sabbá company accounted for 64% of export of the Amazon. This would not be the only time that the government would nationalize his companies.\n\nIn 1942, Isaac Sabbá had founded the Companhia Mercantil Comissionária e Exportadora, transformed later in Devel - Amazon Development Society Ltda., in order to increase the elastic-tire businesses.\n\nThat company was equipped vessels that sailed all state rivers in search of latex. Also created during the war, the company Jacy Paraná, in the current state of Rondônia, aiming to increase rubber production.\n\nWith the rapid increase in consumption of chewing gum after World War II, he set up a raw materials dehydration plant, with the aim of ensuring the placement of the Amazon product in the international market. He did the same with Brazilian nuts.\n\nUnderstanding the weaknesses of the Amazonian business environment, characterized by poverty and lack of financial resources that could be used for the exploitation of its immense natural wealth, he studied and put in action a funding system that benefited the producer. After analysing the situation of the local industries, he saw that it was not possible to increase the production of raw materials without a fuel supply, at an affordable price on the Amazon region. Hence came the idea of building an oil refinery in Manaus which became Reman.\n\nHe was called by the Time Magazine and the Los Angeles Times as \"The King of the Amazon\".\n\nThe Oil Refinery Isaac Sabbá, built on the shores of the Rio Negro in Manaus, began operations on September 6, 1956 under the name Companhia de Petroleo do Amazonas(Copam - Petroleum Company of the Amazon). The refinery was officially opened on January 3, 1957, with the presence of President Juscelino Kubitschek.\n\nHowever, only to produce fuel was not enough, most important was to make them accessible to other consumer centers, his aim was the integration of the Amazon region in the economic life of the country.\n\nIn 1971 IB Sabbá partnered with Royal Dutch Shell and formed the society Petróleo Sabbá SA, which took over the activities of the Petroleum department of IB Sabbá & Cia. Ltda. In the same year COPAM was nationalized by the military government, and was renamed Refinaria de Manaus(REMAN) which means Manaus Refinery, only in 1996 after his death it was renamed Refinaria Isaac Sabbá. On May 31, 1974, Copam it was incorporated into the Petrobras System as Manaus Refinery (Reman).\n\nA soccer team was named after a Petroleo Sabbá gas station the Associação Atlética Cori-Sabbá.\n\nIsaac Sabbá died on March 26, 1996 of pneumonia. He was survived by his wife Irene and his four children, seven grandchildren and three great grandchildren.\n\nSabbá built the Military Hospital of Manaus the federal funding for the construction of the hospital would be returned, the hospital that still serves up to its objectives.\n\nWhen the CEM - Manaus Electricity Company - was implemented in the city it had Isaac Sabbá as a guarantor. He also surveyed the necessary resources with banks in order to pay the payroll of the employees. In order to help, he putted the equipment and machinery of his refinery at the disposal of the new company, without charge.\n\nIsaac Sabbá also helped create and was the one who helped the BEA - Amazonas state bank - in the most difficult moments, lending you money whenever the cash needs of the isntituição required.\n\nAs a Jew throughout his life, he was a member of the Amazonas Jewish Committee, and he raised money to build Manaus synagogue Beit Yaacob - Rebi Meyr.\n\nSabbá married Irene (née. Assayag) Gonçalves Sabbá in 1942. The couple had 5 children, Moises Gonçalves Sabbá (b.1944), Alberto Mimon Gonçalves Sabbá (b. 1945), Mario Gonçalves Sabbá (b.1947), Ester Gonçalves Sabbá (b.1949) and Débora Gonçalves Sabbá (1963-1963). He took as a pupil his nephew Moyses Benarrós Israel, who was his right hand during all of his life.\n"}
{"id": "37294063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37294063", "title": "István Herman", "text": "István Herman\n\nIstván Ervin Herman (born October 16, 1947) is a Hungarian entrepreneur and politician, member of the National Assembly (MP) for Füzesabony (Heves County Constituency VI) from 2010 to 2014.\n\nHe finished his secondary studies at the Dobó István Grammar School in Eger from 1963 to 1967. He learned zincography in the Kossuth Press in Budapest. He graduated pedagogy from the Eszterházy Károly College of Eger in 2002.\n\nHe co-founded the Grafotip Advertising and Trading Ltd. in 1989. He was appointed President of the Heves County Chamber of Crafts in 1995. He was the \"Entrepreneur of the Year\" in 1999.\n\nHerman served as a representative in the Eger Assembly from 1990 to 1994. He was a member of the Committee on Budgets between 1994 and 1998. He became a member of the Heves County General Assembly in 1998.\n\nHe functioned as deputy chairman of the Hungarian Democratic Forum (MDF) in Heves County between 2002 and 2005. He joined the Entrepreneurs' Party on October 30, 2005. He was elected chairman of the party on October 18, 2006, however the previous leader Antal Császár refused to recognize the victory, referring to formal reasons. Császár directed the case to legal proceedings who, finally, won the lawsuit in August 2008. Proceedings were initiated on suspicion of money laundering against Herman and his deputy chairman Tamás Janzsó in November 2007, because they opened a private account for managing the finances of the party, while the slush fund was blocked by the Court.\n\nHerman joined Fidesz in 2006 and became chairman of the 6th constituency of Heves County. He was elected to the National Assembly from that constituency in 2010. He was a member of the Committee on Audit Office and Budget since May 14, 2010 and of the Economic and Information Technology Committee since February 14, 2011.\n\nHe is married and has two sons.\n"}
{"id": "32005267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32005267", "title": "Jorge Camil Starr", "text": "Jorge Camil Starr\n\nJorge Camil Starr (born 1980) is a Mexican-American social entrepreneur and businessman specializing in technology, education and the environment. He is co-founder and coordinator of technology and education in Enova, a social enterprise focusing on technology and educational strategies. Jorge was recognized as an Endeavor Entrepreneur and an Ashoka Fellow in 2011.\n\nHe completed a double bachelor's degree in Economics and Business Administration at Pepperdine University, in 2004, and also holds diplomas in Marketing from Imperial College London (2003); Corporate Finance, Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México (ITAM), 2006; Digital Governance, Tecnológico de Monterrey (ITESM), Mexico (2007); and Senior Management in Technology and Innovation, El Instituto Panamericano de Alta Dirección de Empresa (IPADE), Mexico (2008).\n\nHe was board member of IMIFAP.\n\nHe previously served as Director of PLC Networks, S.A. de C.V, a broadband over powerline company. In 2005, Jorge co-created LT Solutions S.A. de C.V, a distributor of Ncomputing for México and Central America. \n\nHe has served as coordinator for the movement “Time for Nature 2008.” Jorge also serves as a representative volunteer for TCP, The Climate Change Project.\n"}
{"id": "38529272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38529272", "title": "Jose Mari Gonzales", "text": "Jose Mari Gonzales\n\nJosé Mari Gonzáles, or José Mari (born June 15, 1942), is a Filipino former actor, matinee idol and politician.\n\nGonzáles entered the movies at the age of 17 in the late 1950s. He appeared in \"Ulilang Anghel\" (1958), \"Tawag Ng Tanghalan\" (1958), \"Mga Anghel Sa Lansangan\" (1959), \"Handsome\" (1959) and \"Baby Face\" (1959). He became a matinee idol in Sampaguita Pictures in movies such as \"Beatnik\" (1960) with Susan Roces, \"Joey, Eddie, Lito\" (1961) with Eddie Gutiérrez and Lito Legaspi, \"Operatang Sampay Bakod\" (1961) with Amalia Fuentes and Dolphy, \"Tindahan Ni Aling Epang\" (1961) with Liberty Ilagan, \"Kaming Mga Talyada\" (1962) where he played gay roles together with Juancho Gutiérrez, Dindo Fernando and Barbara Pérez among others.\n\nIn the 1960s, he was paired with Liberty Ilagan as a \"loveteam\" in Sampaguita Pictures movies. Larry Santiago Productions continued their team-up in the 1966 picture \"Dearest One\".\n\nIn 1971, Gonzáles was elected the first president of the Philippine Association of the Record Industry (PARI).\n\nGonzáles produced the first single \"Enveloped Ideas\" of The Dawn in 1987.\n\nIn 2005, Gonzáles was inducted in the Eastwood City Walk of Fame in Eastwood City, Quezon City.\n\nGonzáles was born in Tacloban City. He studied in De La Salle College in Manila. His major was Electronics and Communication Engineering.\n\nHe is married to Charito Malarky, a former model of Spanish and British ancestry. Their paths first crossed when she was twelve and he, seventeen. He is the father of actresses Cristina Gonzáles (wife of Mayor Alfred Romualdez) and Ana Margarita Gonzáles.\n\nDuring the term of President Cory Aquino, Gonzales was made the Director of the Bureau of Broadcast. In 1994, he was appointed as RPN 9's top honcho. As a TV executive, he reinvented the telenovela's Marimar and \"La Traidora\", dubbed to Tagalog.\n\nIn 1998, he ran for Congressman as an independent candidate and won in San Juan, Metro Manila.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24076499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24076499", "title": "Komeil Bahmanpour", "text": "Komeil Bahmanpour\n\nKomeil Bahmanpour (born January 28, 1978) is an Iranian entrepreneur, software architect and author. He is a co-founder and the president of Chortkeh.\n\nKomeil Bahmanpour was born and raised in Tehran, Iran. Thanks to his father being an influential banker, he grew up learning about IBM mainframes at Tejarat Bank Bureau of Informatics. Starting his profession as a teenager in 1992, he studied computer programming in IUST and obtained his IBM mainframe Assembly programming license. He has also studied software engineering at Azad South Tehran University of Technology.\n\nIn 1999, Komeil Bahmanpour was introduced to an American eforms software company willing to open overseas subsidiaries for the purpose of Middle Eastern software development and marketing. The deal went on and Chortkeh ()—back then doing business as \"Chortkeh Rayaneh Hamrah, LLC\" ()—was established.\n\nHe was assigned as the chief software architect also managing development teams working on projects in different fields such as eforms conversion, virtual printer, object recognition, barcode, etc.\n\nSince 2003, Komeil Bahmanpour has been the managing editor of Netscape's Persian ODP, still maintaining its Persian portal at Dmoz.ir.\n\nHe won the Best World/Farsi Editor at the 2004 ODP Autumn Editor Awards.\n\nAs the Persian ODP managing editor, Bahmanpour was behind a big decision to change the URL of the Persian ODP from Dmoz.org/World/Farsi/ into Dmoz.org/World/Persian/. Believing in the fact that employing \"Farsi\" instead of \"Persian\" across the English Web is betraying Persian language, during a month-long discussion between him and the ODP meta editors, he persisted on replacing the transliterated word \"Farsi\" with the more adequate word \"Persian\", but metas on the other hand precluded the change based on the assumption that URLs have been promoted for years, so it will not be a wise choice to change them. Eventually, in March 2007 the URL was changed.\n\nMultilingual software and fonts have always been his main interests. He has contributed to the development of the Unicode Standard, especially in Arabic, Persian and Hebrew languages. He also authored Chortkeh Font Toolbox, a font management software suite comprising the freeware Chortkeh BDF Font Viewer since January 19, 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "39164636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39164636", "title": "Lugcentrokuz", "text": "Lugcentrokuz\n\nLugcentrokuz () is a Ukrainian rail transport industrial company headquartered in Luhansk. It was established as an independent company, separate from the press forging department of Luhanskteplovoz in 1991.\n\nLugcentrokuz is one of the various companies founded from the existing steam locomotive factory in Luhansk that was built by the German entrepreneur Gustav Hartmann. A steam forge was one of its first departments.\n\nAfter the Ukrainian War of Independence, up until 1991, Lugcentrokuz was a part of this factory and was best known as the October Revolution Locomotive Factory (after the October Revolution).\n\nAn extensive rebuild of the Luhansk factory was undertaken during 1928–1933 by the construction board, Luhanbud, during which the present company's central premises were reconstructed.\n\nDuring the 1970s, the Luhansk locomotive factory produced up to 1500 locomotive units a year, 96% of which were main-line diesels.\n\nThe majority of Lugcentrokuz's exports went to Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria,Egypt, Syria, India, Iran, Mongolia, North Korea and Cuba. Altogether, a total of 4000 main-line diesel locomotives were exported to countries outside of the Soviet Union.\nAfter regaining Ukrainian Independence in 1991, a separate company under the name of \"Luhansk Central Forging Factory\" was founded, based on the press forging department. In 1992, it gained its current name.\n\nDuring the next several years, several new manufacturing techniques were introduced, which included electric arc steel furnacing, die manufacturing, mechanical assembling, leaf spring manufacturing and a testing center.\n\nAs of 2013, the export countries are:\nAustria, Belarus, Bulgaria, Zambia, India, Indonesia, Spain, Kazakhstan, Canada, China, Germany, Pakistan, Poland,Russia,Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Finland, Czech Republic and Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34653679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34653679", "title": "Manuel Vicente", "text": "Manuel Vicente\n\nManuel Domingos Vicente (born 15 May 1956) is an Angolan politician who served as Vice President of Angola between September 2012 and September 2017. Previously he was chief executive officer of Sonangol, Angola's state oil company, from 1999 to 2012, and he briefly served in the government as Minister of State for Economic Coordination in 2012.\n\nBorn at Sambizanga neighborhood in Luanda, his father was a shoemaker while his mother was a laundress. Vicente was raised by President José Eduardo dos Santos eldest sister, Isabel Eduardo dos Santos. He received primary and secondary education at the São Domingos Mission School. However, his studies was interrupted by financial problems and he had to work as a locksmith and linotypist to help support the family. He earned an electronic engineering degree at the University of Angola (Agostinho Neto University) in 1983. After working as a chief engineer during the 1980s, he headed the technical department of the Ministry of Oil from 1987 to 1991. He was appointed as Deputy Director-General of Sonangol, the state oil company, in 1991.\n\nIn his professional training, Vicente had his degrees Substation and Transmission Lines, Furnas / Brazil-1985 Business Management of Petroleum, London, 1991, Marketing of Petroleum and its Derivatives, London-1991 Economics of Oil Operations - Petroleum Institute, London, 1991, Risk Analysis and Decision in the Oil Industry (OGCI) - Calgary 1992 petroleum Economics - (OGCI) - London 1992, among others connected to the oil industry.\n\nHe is the stepfather of a businessman, Mirco Martins.\n\nIn 1999, Vicente was appointed as head of Sonangol. In that key post, he presided over the most important sector of the Angolan economy and was considered a close associate of President José Eduardo dos Santos. During his time in charge of the company, oil production increased dramatically. He routinely traveled abroad, acquiring \"an excellent reputation from the international business community\". Vicente was appointed as a member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), the ruling party, in December 2009.\n\nA September 2011 report in \"Novo Jornal\" claimed that dos Santos intended for Vicente to be his successor. The report was followed by a flurry of speculation. Vicente was, however, reappointed for another term at the head of Sonangol in December 2011, briefly tempering the speculation.\n\nPresident dos Santos appointed Vicente as Minister of State for Economic Coordination on 30 January 2012; Francisco de Lemos José Maria succeeded Vicente at Sonangol. In line with earlier speculation, the move was generally interpreted by observers as suggesting that dos Santos was positioning Vicente as his eventual successor. It appeared that Vicente's government post would give him a great deal of authority in managing the economy, and it would bolster Vicente's credibility and experience given that he had previously only been involved in the oil industry. Nevertheless, it was believed that some other leading figures in the ruling party were skeptical about Vicente, given his relative inexperience in politics, and could be trying to resist the President's efforts to position him for the succession.\n\nAgence France-Presse reported in February 2012, citing an MPLA source, that Vicente would have the second spot on the MPLA's candidate list for the 2012 election, behind dos Santos, and would become Vice-President of Angola after the election. As anticipated, the MPLA Central Committee designated President dos Santos as head of the MPLA party list and Vicente as the second candidate on the list on 13 June 2012. The MPLA won the election, and Vicente took office as Vice President on 26 September 2012.\n\nIn August 2014 Manuel Vicente participated, representing the Angolan Head of State, in the United States–Africa Leaders Summit, an initiative of the American president, Barack Obama, held in Washington DC under the theme \"Investing in the future of Africa.\"\n\nManuel Vicente was present at the 69th General Assembly of the United Nations, which took place in September 2014 in New York City. The Angolan Vice-President defended a reform in the UN Security Council, which, according to him, should “be more in line with the international context and reflect an equal geographical representation through the increase in the number of permanent members”, namely by including an African country. In his speech, the Angolan Vice-President also approached issues such as the resurgence of armed conflicts and the religious fundamentalism in some African countries, as well as the importance of disarmament and the combating of drug and human trafficking and transnational organized crime.\n\nIn November 2014, Manuel Vicente was distinguished with the \"Sirius Award\" by the multinational corporation Deloitte.\n\nIn December 2016, the MPLA chose João Lourenço, the Minister of Defense and Vice-President of the MPLA, as the party's top candidate and therefore its presidential candidate for the 2017 election. Lourenço, and not Vicente, was thus expected to succeed dos Santos as President.\n\nIn June 2017, a Portuguese court ruled that Vincente should face trial over bribery allegations brought against him by a prosecutor in February 2017 after accused of bribing a magistrate with $810,000 in order to shelve investigations into his deals at an oil company named Sonangol Group which he headed between 2009 and 2012.\n"}
{"id": "43748938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43748938", "title": "Marat Abiyev", "text": "Marat Abiyev\n\nMarat Zhaksylykovich Abiyev ( born September 6, 1989) is a Kazakh businessman, author of the Kazakhstani Dream book. He is the youngest millionaire, according to the Forbes Kazakhstan magazine, Marat Abiyev's net worth is estimated at US$11 million as of November 2013.\n\nUnder Abiyev's leadership and due to efforts of his professional team of young professionals, Kazakhstani pipe products have been recognized and purchased by almost 80% of Kazakhstan's subsoil users.\n\nAbiyev was born on September 6, in Kandyagash, Aktobe Region, Republic of Kazakhstan.\n\nIn 1999, due to the economic crisis of 1998, the Abiyev family moved to the regional center of Aktobe.\n\nAbiyev Zhaksylyk Medihatovich, the father, graduated from Kazakh Polytechnic Institute named after V.I. Lenin now called Satbayev Kazakh National Technical University, majoring in machinery and equipment for Oil and Gas Industry. He worked with such organizations as: Aktobe oil exploration, geophysical expedition in the position of a diesel engineman; Oktyabrskoe Drilling Operations Institution in the positions of a mechanic and shop superintendent; Central Operational Support Base in the position of the chief engineer; TOO KKBK Velikaya Stena in the position of the shop superintendent; In recent years he worked as the deputy commander for operations at the VPFO Ak Beren Central Headquarters Professional Uniformed Emergency Services State Enterprise in the rank of lieutenant colonel.\n\nAbiyeva Tamara Asauhanovna, the mother, is a teacher at the university on the Architecture and building construction course, the Kazakh SSR chess champion.\n\nZhaksylyk Marzhangul Zhaksylykovna, a sister, is a full-time student at Kazakh Humanities and Law Institute of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan (KAZGUU).\n\nAfter graduating from high school, he entered the Aktobe Cooperative College majoring in automated systems for information processing and management. He graduated from Aktobe Cooperative College in 2009.\n\nIn 2002 he started working in network marketing.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2005 he was a producer of various Aktobe's rap bands.\n\nIn 2004 he founded the company called \"AAA Technology\" which was engaged in servicing computers and office supplies.\n\nIn 2007 M.Z. Abiyev started working as an entrepreneur. He started two companies, one called \"W\" and the other one called IT-outsourcing. The \"W\" company was a web-based studio which was engaged in creation, design, and maintenance of websites. It was one of the first companies in the Aktobe region offering website services. \"W\" Web Studio won \"the Best in the service sector medal-award\". The company offered full and partial support of the activity, as well as the maintenance and modernization of IT infrastructure of various companies.\n\nIn 2009, Marat created \"LLP Euromobile Kazakhstan\", the main focus of the company was the provision of satellite-based monitoring of vehicles.\n\nIn 2011, Marat founded LLP KSP Steel Trading House. KSP Steel Trading House was created in order to increase sale volumes of LLP KSP Steel which was the only producer of seamless steel pipes for subsoil users and businesses operating in the oil and gas industry in the Republic of Kazakhstan.\n\nDue to successful LLP KSP Steel Trading House's activity, Kazakhstani pipe products have been recognized. And almost 80% of the Republic of Kazakhstan subsoil users started buying products offered by LLP KSP Steel. Previously subsoil users of Kazakhstan would only purchase goods from foreign suppliers.\n\nKSP Steel Trading House got all the rewards it deserved. This included \"Best in the area of Products\" medal, \"Choose Kazakhstani products award\", and \"Europe – Asia – Cooperation without Borders\" medal.\n\nThe establishment of \"the Association of Producers of Kazakhstan\" association of legal entities was initiated by him in 2012. The main mission of the Association is to \"protect and promote domestic producers.\"\n\nAbiyev is also the founder of various companies in the UK and the Russian Federation. Some of these companies are engaged in the sale of goods produced in the Republic of Kazakhstan. Others are involved in international trade for the supply of the metal, food and medical equipment to the Islamic Republic of Iran from the United Kingdom, the Russian Federation, Turkey, People's Republic of China and Belarus.\n\n\nAccording to the Forbes Kazakhstan magazine, Marat Abiyev's net worth is estimated at 11 million U.S. dollars as of November 2013\n\n"}
{"id": "49254586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49254586", "title": "Marwan Hayek", "text": "Marwan Hayek\n\nMarwan Hayek is the Chief Executive Officer of Alfa Telecom in Lebanon.\n\nBorn 7 September 1969, Hayek is a telecoms executive and digital economy specialist who was part of the team that built the first GSM network in Lebanon. Marwan has over 18 years experience in the telecom sector across the MENA region. \n\nHayek holds a master's degree in Telecommunications and Electrical Engineering from the Faculte Polytechnique de Mons in Belgium. He attended and participated in several technical, IT and Management trainings including CCL, MEIRC, HEC, INSEAD, MIT & Harvard.\n\nHayek started his career with France Telecom in Lebanon – Cellis, known currently as Alfa, where he was part of the initial team that built the first GSM network in Lebanon, before joining later on the Orascom Telecom Holding in 1999. Hayek has held several assignments within the Orascom Telecom Group’s subsidiaries and its Holding, the latest before his current appointment was in September 2007, where he joined Mobinil - Egypt as VP Technology in charge of both network and IT infrastructure.\n\nPrior to Mobinil, Hayek was the CTO of Mobilink in Pakistan (an OTH subsidiary) between June 2003 and September 2007. Between 2000 and 2002, Hayek was part of the team who built Sabafon’s network in Yemen in the position of CTO. Under Hayek, OTH grew to over 120M subscribers.\n\nHayek took the helm of Alfa, the first Lebanese mobile operator managed by Orascom Telecom, as its chairman and CEO, since the beginning of March 2010. He led the introduction of the 3G+ technology that was first launched in October 2011 as well as the introduction of 4G-LTE technology in May 2013. The Lebanese internet cable networks do not currently support fibre optics and the introduction of 3G+ followed by 4G-LTE gave access to the Lebanese people to high-speed internet.\n\nSince 1999, following the winning of the Management Agreement of Alfa by Orascom Telecom in February 2009 and in addition to his position at Mobinil, Hayek was appointed on the board of MIC1-Lebanon and Orascom Telecom Lebanon. Since November 2014, he also sits at the board of directors of WIS Telecom (an OTMT international carrier subsidiary operating out of Belgium and Italy).\n\nThe mobile penetration rate in Lebanon is close to saturation, indexed at 94% as per beginning year 2016.\n\nIn 2015 there was a controversy where the Governmental Tender Office claimed that Hayek did not submit the tender for the renewal of Alfa's governmental regulated contract on time and the Prime Minister's office disqualified Orascom from taking part in the bidding. The Shura Council cancelled the decision and ordered the Tender Office to endorse the company’s application. The council also urged it to conduct a public and equally competitive bid.\nThe telecom operators in Lebanon are government regulated and have to go back to the Minister of Telecommunications whenever they want to invest in the network.\n\nHayek has received several awards in recognition of his contributions to the telecom sector’s development in Lebanon and the MENA region. \nIn June 2011, he was awarded the Pan Arab “Telecommunications Man of the Year” title by the “Pan Arab Web Awards Academy.”\nIn 2012, he received the “Visionary Entrepreneur Award” at the Business Forum 2012 and he was awarded the “Golden Order of Merit for Leadership\" from the “Arab Administrative Development Organization” (ARADO), an affiliate of the League of Arab States, and “Tatweej” Academy.\n\nFor contributions to the advancement of Lebanon’s digital economy, Hayek was awarded the “Golden Award for Leadership in Digital Economy” from “Tatweej” Academy. He was awarded the “International Hisham Jaroudi Championship” trophy for support of sports development in Lebanon.\n\nHayek is married, with three children and lives in Beirut, Lebanon. He speaks Arabic, English and French.\n\n"}
{"id": "42613754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42613754", "title": "Mercurio Martinez", "text": "Mercurio Martinez\n\nMercurio J. Martinez, Jr., often known as Merc Martinez (born July 25, 1937), is an educator, rancher, and businessman from his native Laredo, Texas. From 1991 to 2002, he was the County Judge of Webb County in South Texas.\n\nMartinez was one of two children born at the age of sixty-three to Mercurio Martinez, Sr. (1876-1965), and his third wife, the 42-year-old former Cristina Treviño. The senior Martinez was a descendant of Spanish-Mexican pioneers who had settled on the banks of the Rio Grande River in the mid-eighteenth century. An educator and public official in his native Zapata County, Martinez subsequently practiced law in Laredo until 1942, when he retired at the age of sixty-six. He continued to associate with other lawyers on occasional cases dealing with land ownership and engaged in historical research. The younger sister of Martinez, Jr., is named Rosa, which is also the name of his wife, the former Rosa Ancira, whom he married in 1959. Mercurio and Rosa Martinez have six children, Leticia, Adriana, Mercurio, III, Jorge, Carlos, and Rosalycia.\n\nMartinez, Jr., was reared in the downtown La Azteca neighborhood of Laredo and graduated from St. Augustine High School, then located downtown in the San Agustin de Laredo Historic District adjacent to the Cathedral of San Agustin. He studied at Laredo Junior College, renamed in 1993 as Laredo Community College. He was exempt from conscription in the 1960s because he was a married father. From 1968 to 1978, Martinez was trustee of LJC and its parent organization, the Laredo Independent School District. This was an era where the \"Patron Party\" ruled all local governmental entities providing political favors in return for loyalty and votes. He has served since 2004 on the elected LCC board. He received his Bachelor of Business Administration in 1959 from St. Mary's University in San Antonio. He procured a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of North Texas in Denton. He did post-graduate study at Southern Methodist University near Dallas, Colorado State University in Fort Collins, and the Harvard University School of Business.\n\nMartinez was an LJC business and economics instructor from c. 1960 until 1967, when he joined Union National Bank of Laredo, since Wells Fargo near City Hall.\n\nIn 1978, Martinez was elected to the Laredo City Council, a nominally nonpartisan position. At the same time, Aldo Tatangelo was elected mayor to succeed the retiring J. C. \"Pepe\" Martin of the former \"Independent Club\" or \"Patron Party\", who subsequently spent time in the Webb County Jail for theft of municipal services. Martinez worked on the council to change the city government from \"strong mayor\" to \"weak mayor\" format through a new municipal charter. After a brief time on the council, he was asked by U.S. President Jimmy Carter, a fellow Democrat, to head the Southwest Regional Office in Dallas of the Small Business Administration. During this stint, he lived in Dallas on weekdays but returned to Laredo most weekends.\n\nIn 1982, Martinez returned to Laredo to run for mayor against Tatangelo, and though he had led in the primary, he lost in the runoff election. Martinez was \"considered the best Old Party (Patron) candidate to reclaim the mayorship\" in Fernando Piñon's book titled Patron Democracy. In 1990, he was elected county judge, having unseated the incumbent Andres \"Andy\" Ramos. Though he had no Republican opponent in the general election, former Mayor Tatangelo, at the age of seventy-seven, opposed his former mayoral rival Martinez for county judge as a write-in candidate. Martinez still prevailed with some 75 percent of the votes cast, but the county Republican leadership, headed by Esther Buckley, endorsed Tatangelo. After three terms as county judge, Martinez was unseated in the 2002 Democratic primary by Louis H. Bruni, a former member of the Laredo City Council from District 2. Thereafter, beginning in the fall of 2003, Martinez began teaching accounting at Texas A&M International University in Laredo.\n\nIn 2006, Martinez ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination to represent Texas House District 42, having been defeated by the incumbent and still serving Richard Raymond of Laredo. In the primary Raymond fell .07 percent plus one vote short of an outright victory. He finished first with 11,806 votes (49.8 percent); Martinez trailed with 7,650 (32.3 percent). Two other contenders held the remaining 17.9 percent of the vote. In the runoff in April 2006, Raymond prevailed, 8,828 votes (57.8 percent) to 6,456 (42.2 percent). Oddly, in 2005, Martinez contributed $1,000 to Raymond's proposed run for the United States House of Representatives, a race that never materialized.\n\nIn 2016, Martinez ran for reelection for the Laredo Community College board of trustees and was challenged by educator, author, and political activist Justin Allen Hundsnurscher. He won reelection with 61.89% of the vote or 28,723 votes against Hundsnurscher's 17,687 votes.\n\nIn 2017, the still staunchly Democratic Martinez emerged as one of the first persons in Webb County to endorse Beto O'Rourke, the U.S. representative for Texas' 16th congressional district, who expects to challenge Republican U.S. Senator Ted Cruz in the general election scheduled for November 6, 2018. Martinez claimed that Cruz has \"alienated the majority of the senators ... We cannot afford somebody that has alienated the Senate that way. I've always felt that politics is the act of compromise. Let's reach a middle ground. In my opinion, Beto O'Rourke has that ability.\" Martinez said at a campaign stop that he sees no reason why O'Rourke won't match John F. Kennedy's 90 percent margin in Webb County in the 1960 presidential election.\n\nIn 2014, Martinez was honored with the \"Higher Education Award\" by the League of United Latin American Citizens, formally presented as part of the Washington's Birthday Celebration in Laredo. He is a past recipient of the Paul Harris Award from Rotary International, the St. George and Silver Beaver medals from the Boy Scouts of America, the Tejano Achiever Award from LULAC, and \"Distinguished Alumni\" in 2001 of Laredo Community College.\n\nMartinez's namesake grandson, Mercurio Martinez, IV, was killed in an automobile accident in 2009 at the age of eighteen. Each year the community honors his memory with the \"Mercurio Martinez, IV\nTeens in the Driver Seat, Annual 5K Run\", sponsored by the Vidal M. Treviño School of Communications and Fine Arts, an entity of the Laredo Independent School District named for the late educator and State Representative Vidal M. Treviño.\n"}
{"id": "21879118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21879118", "title": "Miloud Chaabi", "text": "Miloud Chaabi\n\nMiloud Chaabi (Arabic:ميلود الشعبي; September 15, 1930 – April 16, 2016) was a Chleuh-Berber Moroccan businessman and politician who had an estimated net worth of $800 million in 2015. He was the founder of Ynna Holding and the owner of the Riad Mogador hotel chain and group of supermarkets Aswak Assalam in Morocco. He was known for his strong stance against alcohol which is banned from both his hotel chain and supermarkets. His daughter, Asma Chaâbi has been mayor of the city of Essaouira from 2003 to 2009, and was the first woman to hold such a position in Morocco. His son, Mohcine, is a current member of the House of Representatives, while his late son Mohamed and his other son Faouzi, held the same positions in the past. He was also the parliamentary representative of Essaouira after winning the elections in 2011, until he resigned on December 8, 2014 due to his declining health. His seat in the parliament was taken by his daughter Asma, who was second on the electoral list.\n\nIn 2011, his fortune was estimated by Forbes Magazine at some $3 billion which made him the sixth richest man in Africa at the time, and the wealthiest person in Morocco.\n\nChaâbi was also known for his philanthropic and charity work and donated 10% of his fortune to build the first American university in Morocco in conjunction with the University of Maryland, College Park. He was the operator of one of the largest charity organisations in Morocco, the Miloud Chaâbi Foundation.\n\nAs a child he was taught in a mosque and started working alternatively as a goat herder and farmer. At 15, he saved up enough money and moved from Marrakech to Kenitra where he started his first construction company in 1948.\n\nAt a time when trading business in Kenitra was restricted to the French, some Jewish businessmen, and some of the well known Moroccan families, Chaâbi ventured into the field. His interest went toward the ceramic industry which made him start his own ceramic company in 1964. \nSoon, Chaâbi gained enough experience in the business and began to seek for opportunities to purchase large companies. He offered to become an investor in a French company but the company refused his offer, which drove him to keep pressuring it by selling products with competitive prices until it had finally collapsed and was on the verge of bankruptcy. In 1985, the company sold all of its properties to Chaâbi himself. This success was a turning point for Chaâbi's professional career, and as a result he founded Ynna Group which became one of the most powerful holding companies in Morocco.\n\nIn 1992, he founded JBC for cardboard paper and got a deal for the sale of the petrochemical company SNEP in 1993. In 1994, he launched ELECTRA for electrical components, cables and television batteries. In 1998, he launched Aswak Assalam shopping chain which was followed by the launch of Riyad Mogador hotel chain in 1999.\n\nUntil he resigned in 2014, Miloud Chaabi won all Moroccan parliamentary elections since 1984, though he changed his political party multiple times. Parties of which he was a member include Party of Progress and Socialism and Environment and Development Party.\nIn July 2008, he heavily criticized Driss Jettou's government for selling public properties at low prices without taking the proper legal procedures.\n\n"}
{"id": "27260796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27260796", "title": "Mini-MBA", "text": "Mini-MBA\n\nMini-MBA is a training regimen focused on the fundamentals of business. Mini-MBA programs are typically non-credit bearing programs that require less than 100 hours of total learning. Mini-MBA will also be applicable to the other programs viz., Advanced Management Program (AMP), General Management Program (GMP) etc. that confer alumni status of the business school. Such mini-MBA programs are offered by several leading business schools, including Harvard Business School, McGill Executive Institute (McGill University), Wharton, Columbia, Stanford, Booth Chicago, INSEAD, London Business School, Florida Institute of Technology, University at Buffalo and Rutgers University. In Denmark Mini MBA programs are offered by e.g. and Aros Business Academy and in Spain a Mini MBA program is offered by IEBS Business School and .\n\nMini MBA in Ukraine\n"}
{"id": "50770789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50770789", "title": "Olof K. Gustafsson", "text": "Olof K. Gustafsson\n\nOlof K. Gustafsson (born 14 May 1993) is a Swedish entrepreneur and businessman, currently serving as CEO of Escobar Inc, a holding company for Pablo and Roberto Escobar Gaviria.\n\nAt age 13 he founded his first company retailing comics online in Sweden. At age 17 in Sweden he had been running four companies while completing his Upper Secondary Education in two years instead of the mandatory three years. He has published a comics compilation Since 2014\nhe serves as CEO of Escobar Inc, a holding company for Pablo Escobar he founded with Roberto de Jesús Escobar Gaviria.\nAnd today wanted by many investors of his Scam DDX coin, that he started with his friends from Escobar INC. They steal ad least 1 to 5 miljoen Dollars. And Mr Materialscientist leave this line because the news is hot and will get into the news really soon, \nsame as the news about this Scammer Olof Gustafsson who was try to sell paintings to some guy in Dubai art dealing with Pablo's paintings in Dubai by Olof gustafsson \n"}
{"id": "2086925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2086925", "title": "Pink-collar worker", "text": "Pink-collar worker\n\nIn the United States and (at least some) other English-speaking countries, a pink-collar- worker refers to someone working in the care-oriented career field or in jobs historically considered to be \"women’s work.\" This may include jobs in nursing, teaching, secretarial work, waitressing, or child care. While these jobs may be filled by men, they are typically female-dominated and may or may not pay significantly less than white-collar or blue-collar jobs.\n\nThe term \"pink-collar\" was popularized in the late 1970s by writer and social critic Louise Kapp Howe to denote women working as nurses, secretaries, and elementary school teachers. Its origins, however, go back to the early 1970s, to when the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was placed before the states for ratification. At that time, the term was used to denote secretarial staff as well as non-professional office staff, all of which were largely held by women. These positions were not white-collar jobs, but neither were they blue-collar, manual labor. Hence, the creation of the term \"pink-collar,\" which indicated it was not white-collar, was nonetheless an office job and one that was overwhelmingly filled by women.\n\nPink-collar occupations tend to be personal-service-oriented worker working in retail, nursing, and teaching (depending on the level), are part of the service sector, and are among the most common occupations in the United States. The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that, as of May 2008, there were over 2.2 million persons employed as servers in the United States. Furthermore, the World Health Organization's 2011 World Health Statistics Report states that there are 19.3 million nurses in the world today. In the United States, women comprise 92.1% of the registered nurses that are currently employed.\n\nPink-collar occupations include:\nHistorically, women were responsible for the running of a household. Their financial security was often dependent upon a male patriarch. Widowed or divorced women struggled to support themselves and their children.\n\nWomen began to develop more opportunities when they moved into the paid workplace, formerly of the male domain. In the 20th century women aimed to be treated like the equals of their male counterparts. In 1920 American women won the right to vote, marking a turning point in their roles in life.\n\nMany single women traveled to cities like New York where they found work in factories and sweatshops, working for low pay operating sewing machines, sorting feathers, rolling tobacco and so on.\n\nThese factories were dirty, noisy, dark, and dangerous. Workers frequently breathed dangerous fumes and worked with flammable materials. Women lost fingers and hands in accidents because in order to save money they were required to clean and adjust the machines while they were running. Unfortunately, most women who worked in the factories did not earn enough money to live on and lived in poverty.\n\nThroughout the 20th century certain women helped change women's roles in America. Emily Balch, Jane Addams, and Lillian Wald are among the most notable. They created settlement houses and launched missions in crowded, unsanitary neighborhoods where immigrants lived. Balch, Addams, and Wald offered social services to the women and children, often inviting them into their homes and classrooms.\n\nWomen took on leadership roles starting in the church. Women became involved with the church activities, a few went on to become president of the societies. The women who joined these societies worked with their members some of whom were full-time teachers, nurses, missionaries, and social workers to accomplish their leadership tasks and make a difference. The Association for the Sociology of Religion was the first to elect a woman president in 1938.\n\nWorld War I was the beginning of \"pink-collar jobs\" as the military needed personnel to type letters, answer phones, and perform other tasks. One thousand women worked for the U.S. Navy as stenographers, clerks, and telephone operators.\n\nThe field of nursing also became \"feminized\" and was an accepted profession for women. In 1917, Louisa Lee Schuyler opened the Bellevue Hospital School of Nursing, the first to train women as professional nurses. After completing training, some female nurses worked in hospitals, but most worked in field tents.\n\nWorld War II marked the first time women began working in high-paying industrial jobs. They worked in factories and some even joined the armed forces. These women were segregated from men in separate groups. Although women joined the workforce they still encountered discrimination in and out of the workplace, which persisted despite anti-discrimination laws passed in the 1960s.\n\nWomen who joined the armed forces participated in every military field except combat. One thousand female pilots joined the Women Airforce Service Pilots, one hundred and forty thousand women joined the Women's Army Corps and one hundred thousand women joined the U.S. Navy as nurses and administrative staff.\n\nTwo million women held office jobs during World War II, which offered job security because they had become \"feminized\".\n\nA typical job sought by working women was that of a telephone operator or Hello Girl. The Hello Girls began as women who operated on switchboards during the first world war by answering telephones and talking to impatient callers in a calming tone. The workers would sit on stools facing a wall with hundreds of outlets and tiny blinking lights. The women had to work quickly when a light flashed by plugging the cord into the proper outlet. Despite the difficult work, many women wanted this job because it paid five dollars a week and provided a rest lounge for the employees to take a break.\n\nFemale secretaries were also popular. They were instructed to be efficient, tough, and hardworking while also appearing soft, accommodating, and subservient. Women were expected to be the protector and partner to their boss behind closed doors and a helpmate in public. These women were encouraged to go to charm schools and express their personality through fashion instead of furthering their education.\n\nSocial work became a female-dominated profession in the 1930s, emphasizing a group professional identity and the casework method. Social workers gave crucial expertise for the expansion of federal, state and local government, as well as services to meet the needs of the Depression.\n\nTeachers in primary and secondary schools remained female, although as the war progressed, women began to move on to better employment and higher salaries. In 1940, teaching positions paid less than $1,500 a year and fell to $800 in rural areas.\n\nWomen scientists found it hard to gain appointments at universities. Women scientists were forced to take positions in high schools, state or women's colleges, governmental agencies and alternative institutions such as libraries or museums. Women who took jobs at such places often did clerical duties and though some held professional positions, these boundaries were blurred.\n\nMostly women were hired as librarians who had been professionalized and feminized. In 1920, women accounted for 88% of librarians in the United States.\n\nTwo-thirds of the American Geographical Society (AGS)'s employees were women, who served as librarians, editorial personnel in the publishing programs, secretaries, research editors, copy editors, proofreaders, research assistants and sales staff. These women came with credentials from well-known colleges and universities and many were overqualified for their positions, but later were promoted to more prestigious positions.\n\nAlthough female employees did not receive equal pay, they did get sabbaticals to attend university and to travel for their professions at the cost of the AGS. Those women working managerial and library or museums positions made an impact on women in the work force, but still encountered discrimination when they tried to advance.\n\nIn the 1940s, clerical work expanded to occupy the largest number of women employees, this field diversified as it moved into commercial service. The average worker in the 1940s was over 35 years old, married, and needed to work to keep their families afloat.\n\nDuring the 1950s, women were taught that marriage and domesticity were more important than a career. Most women followed this path because of the uncertainty of the post-war years. Suburban housewives were encouraged to have hobbies like bread making and sewing. The 1950s housewife was in conflict between being \"just a housewife\" because their upbringing taught them competition and achievement. Many women had furthered their education deriving a sense of self-worth.\n\nA single woman working in a factory in the early 20th century earned less than $8 a week, which is equivalent to roughly less that $98 dollars a week today. If the woman was absent or was late, employers penalized them by docking their pay. These women would live in boarding houses costing $1.50 a week, waking at 5:30 a.m. to start their ten-hour work day. When women entered the paid workforce in the 1920s they were paid less than men because employers thought the women's jobs were temporary. Employers also paid women less than men because they believed in the \"Pin Money Theory\", which said that women's earnings were secondary to that of their male counterparts. With this being said, women took typical jobs that were \"considerably less substantial than their husbands' in terms of both the average number of hours worked per week as well as continuity over time\". However, working women still experienced stress and overload because they were still responsible for the majority of the housework and taking care of the children. This left women isolated and subjected them to their husband's control.\n\nIn the early 1900s women's pay was one to three dollars a week and much of that went to living expenses. In the 1900s female tobacco strippers earned five dollars a week, half of what their male coworkers made and seamstresses made six to seven dollars a week compared to a cutter's salary of $16. This differed from women working in factories in the 1900s as they were paid by the piece, not receiving a fixed weekly wage. Those that were pinching pennies pushed themselves to produce more product so that they earned more money. Women who earned enough to live on found it impossible to keep their salary rate from being reduced because bosses often made \"mistakes\" in computing a worker's piece rate. As well as this, women who received this kind of treatment did not disagree for fear of losing their jobs. Employers would frequently deduct pay for work they deemed imperfect and for simply trying to lighten the mood by laughing or talking while they worked. In the 1937 a woman's average yearly salary was $525 compared to a man's salary of $1,027. In the 1940s two-thirds of the women who were in the labor force suffered a decrease in earnings; the average weekly paychecks fell from $50 to $37. This gap in wage stayed consistent, as women in 1991 only earned seventy percent of what men earned regardless of their education.\n\nLater on in the 1970s and 1980s as women began to fight for equality, they fought against discrimination in jobs where women worked and the educational institutions that would lead to those jobs. In 1973 the average salaries for women were 57% compared to those of men, but this gender earnings gap was especially noticeable in pink-collar jobs where the largest number of women were employed. Women were given routine, less responsible jobs available and often with a lower pay than men. These jobs were monotonous and mechanical often with assembly-line procedures.\n\nIn 1975, a study was carried out that examined the pay differences between single and married women. It was found that married women made substantially less than single women, as single women made up to 97% of what a single man would make and married women would only make up to 62% of married men's pay. This was found to potentially be because of taking maternity leaves, as less work related experience would be gained in the time that these women left to care for their children, leading to less investment from the company. It was also found that women now are more likely to join or re-join the work force after having children, rather than the traditional role of becoming a stay at home mother.\n\nWomen entering the workforce had difficulty finding a satisfactory job without references or an education. However, opportunities for higher education expanded as women were admitted to all-male schools like the United States service academies and Ivy League strongholds. Education became a way for society to shape women into its ideal housewife. In the 1950s, authorities and educators encouraged college because they found new value in vocational training for domesticity. College prepared women for future roles because while men and women were taught together, they were groomed for different paths after they graduated. Education started out as a way to teach women how to be a good wife, but education also allowed women to broaden their minds.\n\nBeing educated was an expectation for women entering the paying workforce, despite the fact that their male equivalents did not need a high school diploma. While in college, a woman would experience extracurricular activities, such as a sorority, that offered a separate space for the woman to practice types of social service work that was expected from her.\n\nHowever, not all of a woman's education was done in the classroom. Women were also educated through their peers through \"dating\". Men and women no longer had to be supervised when alone together. Dating allowed men and women to practice the paired activities that would later become a way of life.\n\nNew women's organizations sprouted up working to reform and protect women in the workplace. The largest and most prestigious of these organizations was The General Federation of Women's Clubs (GFWC), whose members were conservative middle-class housewives. The International Ladies Garment Workers Union (ILGWU) was formed after women shirtwaist makers went on strike in New York City in 1909. It started as a small walkout, with a handful of members from one shop and grew to a force of ten of thousands, changing the course of the labor movement forever. In 1910 women allied themselves with the Progressive Party who sought to reform social issues.\n\nAnother organization that grew out of women in the workforce, was the Women's Bureau of the Department of Labor. The Women's Bureau regulated conditions for women employees. As female labor became a crucial part of the economy, efforts by the Women's Bureau increased. The Bureau pushed for employers to take advantage of \"women-power\" and persuaded women to enter the employment market.\n\nIn 1913 the ILGWU signed the well-known \"protocol in the Dress and Waist Industry\" which was the first contract between labor and management settled by outside negotiators. The contract formalized the trade's division of labor by gender.\n\nAnother win for women came in 1921 when congress passed the Sheppard-Towner Act, a welfare measure intended to reduce infant and maternal mortality; it was the first federally funded healthcare act. The act provided federal funds to establish health centers for prenatal and child care. Expectant mothers and children could receive health checkups and health advice. \n\nIn 1963 the Equal Pay Act was passed making it the first federal law against sex discrimination, equal pay for equal work, and made employers hire women workers if they qualified from the start.\n\nUnions also became a major outlet for women to fight against the unfair treatment they experienced. Women who joined these types of unions stayed before and after work to talk about the benefits of the union, collect dues, obtain charters, and form bargaining committees.\n\nThe National Recovery Administration (NRA) was approved in May 1933. The NRA negotiated codes designed to rekindle production. It raised wages, shortened workers' hours, and increased employment for the first time maximizing hour and minimizing wage provisions benefiting female workers. The NRA had its flaws however, it only covered half of the women in the workforce particularly manufacturing and trade. The NRA regulated working conditions only for women with a job and did not offer any relief for the two million unemployed women who desperately needed it.\n\nThe 1930s proved successful for women in the workplace thanks to federal relief programs and the growth of unions. For the first time women were not completely dependent on themselves, in 1933 the federal government expanded in its responsibility to female workers. In 1938 the Fair Labor Standards Act grew out of several successful strikes. Two million women joined the workforce during the Great Depression despite negative public opinion.\n\n\"Pink ghetto\" is a term used to refer to jobs dominated by women. The term was coined in 1983 to describe the limits women have in furthering their careers, since the jobs are often dead-end, stressful and underpaid. The term \"pink ghetto\" is just simply another way of describing pink-collar work. \"Pink ghetto\" was more commonly used in the early years, when women were finally able to work. Pink-collar work became the popular term once it was popularized by Louise Kapp Howe, a writer and social critic, in the 1970s.\n\n\"Pink ghetto\" can also describe the placement of female managers into positions that will not lead them to the board room, thus perpetuating the \"glass ceiling\". This includes managing areas such as human resources, customer service, and other areas that do not contribute to the corporate \"bottom line\". While this allows women to rise in ranks as a manager, their career eventually stalls out and they're excluded from the upper echelons.\n\nScholars such as Judy Wajcman argue that technology has long been monopolized by men and is a great source of their power historically. However, more millennial men are doing pink collar work because technology is affecting blue collar work. Machines are able to perform many of the tasks that were typically gendered male within factories. In a 1990 study conducted by Allan H. Hunt and Timothy L. Hunt, they examined how industrial robots would impact both the creation of jobs as well as job displacement among unskilled workers in the United States. It was concluded that the impact of unemployment due to the spread of robotics would be felt the greatest by uneducated, unskilled blue-collar workers. New technology in the form of robotics eliminates many semi or unskilled jobs, and has taken traditional men filled roles away from the job market. Judy Wajman maintains that skills involving machines and strength are associated with masculinity. This means that the least technical jobs (pink-collar) jobs are associated with women. These machines designed by men, using the technology they have always monopolized, are now displacing them and forcing them into feminized pink-collar work.\n\nIt was found as well that men going into traditionally claimed pink collar jobs are felt discriminated and threatened in their jobs. Men going into positions such as teaching, nursing and childcare faced many negative stereotypes in these lines of work, as men have traditionally been viewed as stern, strong and holding dominant attitudes. This stereotype about men negatively impacts men in these lines of work, as it is expected that a woman with the same position would be more nurturing, caring and well suited for the work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41444248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41444248", "title": "Reza Zarrab", "text": "Reza Zarrab\n\nReza Zarrab (, ; born 12 September 1983 in Tabriz, Iran) is a Turkey-based businessman. He has quadruple Iranian, Azerbaijani, Turkish and Macedonian citizenship.\n\nOn 19 March 2016 he was arrested in the United States, and is accused of being a member of international criminal organization. He was charged with evading the US economic sanctions on Iran and money laundering in an alleged racket scheme to help Iran bypass the sanctions, involving ministers of the Turkish government of then prime minister and now president of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.\n\nHis father, Hossein Zarrab, had a close relationship with Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who served as the President of Iran between 2005 and 2013. The U.S. Department of Treasury accused Hossein Zarrab of violating U.S. sanctions on Iran and slapped a $9.1 million fine against him. His fine reduced to $2.3 million following his colloboration with the U.S. officials.\n\nZarrab was arrested by the FBI in Miami in the US on March 19, 2016 and was accused of bank fraud, money laundering and helping the Iranian government in evading the US economic sanctions on Iran to hinder its nuclear-weapons program. His charges; conspiracy to defraud, violating the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, money laundering, and bank fraud; could bring up to 70 years in prison if found guilty in the U.S. Federal Court.\n\nZarrab was born in Tabriz to Iranian Azerbaijani parents and grew up in Azerbaijan and Turkey. Reza Zarrab became a dual citizen of Turkey and the Republic of Azerbaijan after settling in Istanbul. Zarrab's parents remained in Baku through 2010–11; in 2013 they were granted Turkish citizenship reportedly through facilitation of then Interior Minister Muammer Güler. \nIn 2008, Reza Zarrab married to a Turkish pop star, Ebru Gündeş and had a child in 2011. He started his business life in Turkey in 2008 with the company named Royal Maritime A.S. He founded Royal Holding with his brother Mohammed Zarrab (Can Sarraf) in 2010.\n\nZarrab’s chauffeur, Turgut Harpani, was arrested by the Turkish Customs Protection agency during his trip to Russia from Turkey in 2011 for carrying $150 millions in cash and was accused of conducting illegal money couriering, but he was then released by Turkish authorities. Happani shared his own pictures on Facebook with suitcases full of money. \n\nThe Turkish National Intelligence Agency (MIT) urged then Prime Minister Erdoğan in April 2013 about Zarrab’s corrupted relations with the Turkish cabinet members. Zarrab received an “exceptional citizenship” and became a Turkish citizen with the decision given by the Turkish Council of Ministers on June 1, 2007. He was accused of bribing $1.5 million to receive Turkish Citizenship in the indictment.\n\nZarrab, who has a business affiliation with the Iranian billionaire and business magnate Babak Zanjani, was detained in Istanbul on 17 December 2013 due to his involvement with the sons of three ministers (Erdoğan Bayraktar, Muammer Güler and Zafer Çağlayan) in the Turkish government and Egemen Bağış, the former minister for EU Affairs and Turkey's chief negotiator in accession talks with the European Union, in an alleged bribery, corruption and smuggling racket. The court ordered his arrest on 21 December along with Barış Güler, son of Muammer Güler, and Kaan Çağlayan, son of Zafer Çağlayan. He was released on 28 February 2014.\n\nThe investigation in Turkey revealed a system to help Iran bypass US sanctions against the country concerning the SWIFT payment system, in a scheme based on Turkish public bank Halkbank, whereby money was transferred to front companies in China and Turkey, and gold bought with that money transferred to Iran via Dubai.\n\nThen Interior Minister Muammer Güler’s son, Barış Güler, then Economy Minister Zafer Çaglayan’s son, Kaan Çaglayan, and General Director of Halk Bank, Suleyman Arslan, were among the suspects including Reza Zarrab. They were arrested due to accusations of “bribery, professional misconduct, bid rigging, and smuggling”.\n\nErdogan backlashed and announced the investigation as a “judicial coup” against his government, and dismissed the prosecutors and police officials investigating the corruption scheme. After a 70-day detainment, Zarrab and the sons of cabinet members were released from jail. Erdogan received harsh criticism for obstructing and undermining justice and putting the judiciary under his executive authority. However, Erdogan announced that “justice has been served”.\n\nEgemen Bağış, then Minister of European Union Affairs, was dismissed after the corruption investigation. The Ministers of Interior Affairs, Economic Relations, and Environment and Urbanization – Muammer Güler, Zafer Çaglayan, and Erdoğan Bayraktar, respectively – had to resign from their positions. The indictment charged high-ranked officials with significant accusations for receiving bribes: Zafer Caglayan received $52 million worth of bribes; Muammer Guler received $10 million worth of bribes; and Egemen Bağış received $1.5 million worth of bribes. The summary of proceedings were sent to the Turkish parliament for the vote on whether to lift ministers’ immunity and send them to court. However, given the strong majority of Erdoğan's ruling party (AKP), in January 2015 the parliament did not lift their immunity and swept away the significant investigation.\n\nIn May 2014, Erdoğan announced that he initiated a “witch-hunt” against the Gulen movement for, as he alleged, being behind the corruption investigation. Two months after this announcement, the government arrested and detained police officials who conducted the corruption investigation. The prosecutors of the corruption investigation were also dismissed from their positions.\n\nWhile Erdoğan has alleged that Zarrab conducted trade and business in aligned with Turkish interests, there have been several reports that suggest Zarrab’s illegal activities extensively harmed the Turkish economy.\n\nOn 19 March 2016, Zarrab was arrested in Miami, Florida, for conspiring to evade U.S. sanctions against Iran (by using his gold business to help Iran’s government evade the sanctions), money laundering and bank fraud. He was later indicted by a grand jury with charges that could bring up to 75 years in prison.\nThe case is being prosecuted by the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, led by Preet Bharara, with assistance from a trial attorney of the National Security Division’s Counterintelligence and Export Control Section.\n\nDuring the case, prosecutors have noted that Zarrab donated $4.5 million to a charity founded by Emine Erdoğan, the wife of former prime minister and now president of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. Prosecutors stated that Zarrab has \"close ties\" to Erdoğan.\n\nAfter Zarrab's arrest, shares in Halkbank, whose CEO was among those charged with taking bribes from Zarrab, had fallen by 20%. He has offered to pay $50 million to be granted a bail. Bail has been denied. In their brief against granting bail, prosecutors had argued that \"if the defendant were able to reach Turkish soil, he could cause the highest levels of Turkish government to block his return to the United States.\"\n\nIn April 2017, media reported that negotiations involving the U.S. and Turkish governments were undergoing, to the effect that Zarrab would be extradited to Turkey while in return \"Turkey would be much less resistant to the US’s missions in Syria, and primarily its support to the PYD.\"\n\nOne of the most striking arguments in the indictment about Zarrab was that the Zarrab family sent a letter addressed to the president of Iran’s Central Bank and stated that he was ready for \"Economic Jihad\" against sanctions on Iran.\n\nErdoğan's first comment on Zarrab’s arrest by the United States government was: “it was not a case that interests Turkey\". However, it is claimed that Erdoğan, on September 21, 2016 during a special meeting with then Vice President Joe Biden, requested Zarrab's release from jail and prosecutor Bharara to be dismissed from his position. Also, it is claimed that Erdogan’s wife, Emine Erdogan, did a similar request to Biden’s wife, Jill Biden. Furthermore, Bekir Bozdag, the Turkish Minister of Justice, visited the United States Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch in October 2016 and stated how the Zarrab case was unfounded and that Zarrab should be released\n\nBy the time, it came out that Zarrab's attorneys, Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former New York City mayor, and Michael B. Mukasey, who served as attorney general in President George W. Bush’s administration, held a secret meeting with Erdoğan.\n\nHalkbank Deputy Chief Executive Mehmet Hakan Atilla, who was in connection with Zarrab, was arrested in the United States in March 2017 with the charges of \"conspiring to evade US sanctions against Iran and other offenses”. Afterwards, it was announced in September 2017 that the US charged then Turkish Minister of Economic Affairs Zafer Caglayan and former General Manager of Halk Bank Suleyman Aslan with offenses similar to Zarrab's.\n\nErdoğan appeared to be involved in the allegations about the US investigation. It was claimed that Erdogan's effort to save Zarrab was the fear that the inquiry had reached him. It is also alleged that Erdoğan wanted the US to release Zarrab in return for the detained US citizen pastor Andrew Brunson being held in a prison in Turkey.\n\nMetin Topuz, a Turkish employee of the US Consulate General in Istanbul, was arrested on October 4, 2017 for espionage, being a member of crime network, and taking the evidences of the 2013 corruption investigation to the US. In the arrest warrant, it is emphasized that the main suspects of the December 17th corruption investigation were “foreign intelligence agencies and countries”\n\nAs a response to the arrest, the US Embassy in Turkey announced on October 8, 2017, that \"visa applications from Turkey were suspended.\"\n\nOn November 16, 2017, \"NBC News,\" reported that Zarrab is now cooperating with federal prosecutors in a money-laundering case and that he was then out of jail, a move President Erdoğan had been desperately hoping to avoid. It is thought that Zarrab is Robert Mueller's key to taking down Michael T. Flynn in the 2017 Special Counsel Investigation.\n\nIn response to Zarrab's release from detention to another facility inside the United States, the Turkish government expressed concern as to the status of Zarrab. Two weeks later, Zarrab reappeared in Manhattan court as a witness in the case against Atilla, having accepted a plea deal with federal prosecutors.\n\nA day after Zarrab testified in US Federal District Court, the Turkish government seized the assets of his and his family, including his wife Ebru Gündeş.\n\nZarrab is married to the Turkish singer Ebru Gündeş. They have one child together. Ebru Gündeş reportedly filed for divorce in September 2016, but the couple reconciled shortly afterwards.\n\nIn June 2015, Zarrab received the Turkish Export Award jointly from the hands of Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmuş, Minister of Economy Nihat Zeybekçi, and President of the Turkish Exporters Council Mehmet Büyükekşi, in a ceremony attended by President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.\n\n"}
{"id": "4669390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4669390", "title": "Ricardo Belmont Cassinelli", "text": "Ricardo Belmont Cassinelli\n\nRicardo Belmont Cassinelli is a Peruvian TV network owner and politician. He was the mayor of Lima from 1990 to 1995. He was popularly known as \"El Hermanón\" (Big Brother) for his friendliness and also as \"El Colora'o\" (Ginger) because of his reddish hair.\n\nRicardo Belmont is the son of Augusto Belmont Bar, who founded TV Bego Excelsior (Channel 11 in Peru) in 1967. TV Bego Excelsior also owned Excelsior FM radio (104.7 FM in Peru). The younger Belmont was an avid sportsman who enjoyed soccer and boxing, and was a patron of players in both sports. His sports passion would later influence him in his political speeches, using sporting terms such as \"let's all kick into the same goal post\", and, during his reelection bid, \"Second half time is about to start, and it's works vs. words. Choose the tree [his electoral symbol] and we'll win the game.\" In his \"serious\" life, he dedicated himself to journalism, befriending several local and national politicians all the while aspiring to be his own man in the media business. In his spare time he also dedicated his life to worthy causes, the most prominent being the local Telethon (based on the American version by Jerry Lewis), dedicated to helping the disabled kids at the San Juan de Dios Clinic in Lima.\n\nIn 1986 he took over Channel 11 and renamed it Red Bicolor de Comunicaciones (\"Bicolor Communications Network\"; the initials RBC allude to his personal name). Initially airing only from noon to midnight, Belmont mostly purchased American programming such as Bonanza, Get Smart, Bravestarr, and The Twilight Zone (the 1985 version). The few RBC-produced shows included \"Desafio Familiar\", which was a Peruvian version of Family Feud, \"Habla el Pueblo\", a Larry King-inspired talk show with Belmont himself as host, and \"Mirando la Música\", a music video program. In the late 1980s RBC started diversifying to break out of the niche market to compete with the Peruvian Big Two, America Television and Panamericana Television. RBC Radio 980 AM was mostly sports talk, while 91.9 FM was adult contemporary, in addition to Excelsior, which was mostly tropical and salsa.\n\nIn 1990 he announced his candidacy for the Lima provincial mayoralty as an independent. His political party, OBRAS (Works) alluded to the need for public works in Lima and the overall lack of progress as mayor by Jorge del Castillo Gálvez, who was seen more as a lackey of Peruvian President Alan García than as an effective mayor. Although he supported Mario Vargas Llosa's Presidential candidacy, he chose to oppose Vargas Llosa's party's chosen mayoral candidate, Juan Inchaustegui. Belmont's charisma developed as a TV host and his lack of political affiliation helped him earn the people's vote, and he began to start his public-works program, which included several road and community improvement projects detailed below.\n\nInitially Belmont and the new Peruvian president, Alberto Fujimori, were seen as comrades in arms because of their common political backgrounds as independents. The fiercely independent Belmont, however, drawing on his business skills, was able to get funds from several private enterprises to fund his programs.\n\nAmong the many public works projects he completed include:\n\nElected to a second term in 1994, Belmont and Fujimori had a falling out, due to resentment from Fujimori at Belmont's former support of Vargas Llosa. Fujimori, through his party-controlled Congress, issued Legislative Decree No. 776, by which provincial mayors were forced to distribute their government income down to the distrital halls under them (particularly from rich to poor distrital municipalities in the interior of the country). This stopped Belmont from pursuing further public works and improvements, and the municipal employees (most of whom were APRA party members left over from the Castillo administration) began turning against him through demonstrations, increasing his unpopularity.\n\n"}
{"id": "7995705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7995705", "title": "Selah B. Strong", "text": "Selah B. Strong\n\nSelah Brewster Strong (May 1, 1792 Brookhaven, Suffolk County, New York – November 29, 1872 Setauket, Suffolk Co, NY) was an American lawyer and politician from New York.\n\nHe was born on May 1, 1792 at Brookhaven, New York, the son of Judge Thomas Sheppard Strong and Hannah Brewster. His mother was the daughter of Joseph Brewster, of Setauket and Rebecca Mills. She was also a descendant of Elder William Brewster, (c. 1567 – April 10, 1644), the Pilgrim leader and spiritual elder of the Plymouth Colony and a passenger on the \"Mayflower\", through his son Jonathan Brewster. [This lineage appeared in some genealogies of the Strong family. However, she was actually descended from Rev. Nathaniel Brewster of New Haven and his wife Sarah Ludlow. They died in the Town of Brookhaven.] She was also a descendant of Lt. Gov. Roger Ludlow.\n\nHe was also a descendant of Lion Gardiner, an early English settler and soldier in the New World, founded the first English settlement in what became the state of New York. His legacy includes Gardiners Island which remains in the family and is the largest privately owned island in the United States. He graduated from Yale College in 1811. He studied law, was admitted to the bar in 1814, and commenced practice in New York City.\n\nHe married on August 14, 1823, Cornelia Udall, who was born at Islip, Long Island, New York on March 20, 1806 the daughter of Dr. Richard Udall and Prudence Carll, dau. of Silas Carll of Huntington, Long Island, New York. She was the sister of Richard Udall, who studied law under Strong.\n\nDuring the War of 1812 he was commissioned as an ensign and quartermaster in the 10th Regiment, Third Brigade, New York City and County Troops, and in 1815 was promoted successively to lieutenant and captain. He was master in chancery in 1817, moved to Brookhaven in 1820, and was District Attorney of Suffolk County from 1821 to 1847, except for nine months in 1830. He was appointed judge advocate of the First Division of the New York State Infantry in 1825.\n\nHe was elected as a Democrat to the 28th United States Congress, and served from March 4, 1843, to March 3, 1845. Afterwards he resumed the practice of law. In March 1846, he was appointed Judge of the Second Judicial Circuit, but did not take office. He was a justice of the New York Supreme Court (2nd District] from 1847 to 1849 and from 1852 to 1859, and was ex officio a judge of the New York Court of Appeals in 1849 and 1859. He was a delegate to the New York State Constitutional Convention of 1867–68. He died in 1872; interment was on his estate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48782694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48782694", "title": "Service governance", "text": "Service governance\n\nService governance is a means of achieving good corporate governance through governing internal corporate services across, and throughout, an enterprise. Even though the initial focus was on IT services, it can include accounting, business administration, and other internal service sectors. Institutionalizing these services enables the monitoring and control of risk, value, and cost. Principle among the issues is the fair funding for each service and the allocation system for scarce services. \n\nInstitutionalizing internal corporate services is the corporate management equivalent a general ledger, only with the line items reflecting the services, not simply departments. The service portfolio allows the governance of services as a means to govern the organization by value.\n\nThe portfolio of services is a list of all internal services within the organization that is available outside their own department. The portfolio describes each service, how it is funded, associated costs, ownership boundaries, along with its current performance and identified conflicts. This portfolio contains all services in the organization, including those which have been outsourced and are now supplied to the organization by third parties.\n\nThe portfolio provides a map of the organization that provides directors with a different way of understanding the dynamics of the organization than that received from financial reports, and, thus, makes it easier for the board to make decisions based on accurate, contemporaneous information.\n\nService governance uses the methods described in the management of value (MoV) to discover the requirements of the organization and to use those on design services, and their measures to deliver those values.\n\nWell established best practice methods are used to design measures and metrics for the organization. These are designed to meet the requirements of the corporate mission, charter, and policy. This ensures that they measure what is required by the organization and, thus, supply accurate real-time information to the board for strategic governance decisions, and to management for operational decisions.\n\nThis also ensures compliance with the requirements of Audit as well as enabling the production of the financial and sustainability report and reporting on good corporate citizenship.\n\nEnterprise service management (ESM) is a means of extending service management across an entire organization, often from IT service management (ITSM). It is a component of service governance.\n\nESM provides an integrated view of core service business processes, often in real-time, using common databases. ESM systems track business resources—people, parts, assets—and the status of customer commitments: service requests, orders, repairs, and SLAs. The applications that make up the system share data across various departments (customer service, technical support, sales, field service, etc.) that use the information for their work. ESM facilitates information flow between departments and coordinates activities with external resources involved in the service business process.\n\nEnterprise service management is also a term used to sometimes generically describe the use of service processes and technologies across an organization. It is meant to be a broader term (like ERP and EAM) in contrast to IT service management which only concerns the management of IT services. \n\nThe term has been used to describe the success that a number of organizations have had in using the \"Best Practice\" advice, found in frameworks such as ITIL, TOGAF, and others, for company-wide service design and operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "9493394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9493394", "title": "Shin Kyuk-ho", "text": "Shin Kyuk-ho\n\nShin Kyuk-ho (born 8 October 1922), known in Japan as Takeo Shigemitsu, is a South Korean businessman and founder of the Korean conglomerate Lotte Corporation.\n\nShin was born in Ulsan, Japanese Korea in 1922. In 1941, he stowed away on a ship to Japan, where he studied chemical engineering at Waseda University. He adopted the Japanese name Takeo Shigemitsu and opened a rice cooker manufacturing plant in 1942. After the plant was destroyed during an air raid, Shin founded Lotte in 1948, which grew from selling chewing gum to becoming a major multinational corporation. \n\nIn 2006, Shin and his family were ranked 136th on \"Forbes\" magazine's list, \"The World's Billionaires.\" In 2009, Shin was ranked 38th on the magazine's list of South Korea's richest people. Lotte itself was South Korea's fifth largest conglomerate as of 2017.\n\nIn June 2017, Shin retired from his role as board director of Lotte Holdings Co. after holding the position for nearly 70 years.\n\nIn December 2017, he was sentenced to four years in prison after he was convicted of embezzling 128.6 billion won (119 million USD) from Lotte. However, Shin was allowed to remain free given his poor health.\n\nShin has a total of four children from three marriages. His first wife, Noh Soon-hwa, died in 1951. They have one daughter, Shin Young-ja (born 1942). Shin then married a Japanese woman, Hatsuko Shigemitsu, in 1952. They have two sons, Shin Dong-joo (born 1954) and Shin Dong-bin (born 1955). Shin is also married to Seo Mi-Kyung in South Korea under the country's common-law marriage system. They have one daughter, Shin Yu-mi (born 1983).\n\n"}
{"id": "48789398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48789398", "title": "SolvV", "text": "SolvV\n\nSolvV is short for \"Solvabilitätsverordnung\" which means solvability directive in German, i.e. the delegated legislation of §§ 10 ff of the Kreditwesengesetz and in effect since 2006. The long name in German is \"Verordnung über die angemessene Eigenmittelausstattung von Instituten, Institutsgruppen und Finanzholding-Gruppen\", literally \"directive on the appropriate setting of equity for (financial) institutes, groups of institutes and financial holding groups\". There is an analogous directive with the same name in Austria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20617854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20617854", "title": "St. Thomas Manor", "text": "St. Thomas Manor\n\nSt. Thomas Manor (1741) is a historic home and Catholic church complex located near Port Tobacco, Charles County, Maryland. It is now known as St. Ignatius Church and Cemetery. The manor house complex is recognized as the oldest Jesuit residence in the world to have been continuously occupied by that order. The mission settlement of Chapel Point was started in 1641 by Father Andrew White, S.J., an English Jesuit missionary. He administered to the Potapoco Native Americans, some of whom he converted to Catholicism. Established in 1662, this is the oldest continuously active Roman Catholic parish in the Thirteen Colonies of North America founded by Great Britain. With the consecration in 1794 of Bishop John Carroll, St. Thomas became the first Roman Catholic see in the United States.\n\nThe house is a two-story, seven-bay, brick structure of Georgian architecture, of Flemish bond construction. The mansion is the oldest surviving example of the Georgian style in Maryland. The manor house was built in 1741 as the headquarters of the Maryland Mission of the Society of Jesus, replacing an earlier structure. It served as the Superior's and later the Provincial's official residence. This house was also the nucleus of other missions in Maryland and the mid-Atlantic region.\n\nConnected to the manor house stands a two-story brick wing that incorporates a former chapel built in 1798, now called St. Ignatius Church. Outbuildings are also significant, including a small, mid-19th century wood-frame slaves' quarter, \"one of remarkably few such buildings to survive in this area.\" In addition, the former corn crib is the \"largest structure of its type recorded in Charles County, and one that exhibits many construction features not represented elsewhere.\"\nA cemetery lies to the west of the manor house and church. Notable parishioners are buried there, including a Confederate agent, Olivia Floyd, and US Congressmen, Sydney Emanuel Mudd, William M Digges, and Sydney Emanuel Mudd II.\n\nSt. Thomas Manor was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1988. Due to its history and scenic waterfront setting, the manor grounds, church and cemetery attract visitors from distant places. They make up a favorite rest-stop for many bicycle tour groups.\n\nIn 1794 it was at St. Thomas Manor that John Carroll was invested in his robes as the first Catholic bishop of the United States of America, after the nation gained independence in the Revolutionary War. (He later traveled to London for official consecration as a bishop by the Vicar Apostolic.) This investiture established St. Thomas as the first Roman Catholic see in the United States.\n\nThe St. Thomas complex was also the site of the revival of the Jesuit order in the United States in 1805, after it had been suppressed by the Catholic Church in 1773. Three American priests took their vows at St. Ignatius Church.\n\nThe Jesuits of the Maryland Province who resided at St. Thomas Manor sold several members of the Georgetown 272 in 1838. In a letter, William McSherry, S.J. estimated that the sale of the enslaved persons would amount to approximately $16,000. The money from this sale went to repay the debts of the struggling Georgetown College (now Georgetown University) in Washington, D.C. The Maryland Province Jesuits opposed the slave trade, but not slavery in practice. Because of this, they frequently sold enslaved individuals in order to repay debts and raise money to support the Jesuit Missions and Georgetown College. \n\nDuring the years of slavery and after the American Civil War, when most southern governments classified people as only black or white in a binary system related to the racial caste of slavery, St. Ignatius was among the Catholic parishes that continued to record their Native congregational members as Indian, regardless of whether they were of mixed race. In colonial and United States records, by contrast, the tribal identities of some Native Americans were lost when they were classified by outsiders as free people of color, \"colored,\" or \"white,\" regardless of how they identified ethnically. Research in Catholic records has helped some tribes document their continuous cultural history and identification as Native American, and to gain state and federal recognition as tribes since the late 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "45017279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45017279", "title": "Statutory employee", "text": "Statutory employee\n\nA statutory employee is an independent contractor under American common law who is treated as an employee, by statute, for purposes of tax withholdings. For a standard independent contractor, an employer cannot withhold taxes. Statutory employees are also permitted to deduct work-related expenses on IRS Schedule C instead of Schedule A in the United States tax system. As a result, they are allowed a greater tax deduction for business expenses than standard employees, as Schedule C expenses are not subject to the 2% adjusted gross income threshold as seen with Schedule A. \n\nFor an individual to be considered a statutory employee, all of the following conditions must apply:\nSome examples of persons who may be considered statutory employees are as follows:\n\nStatutory employees occupy an intermediate position between employees and independent contractors from the perspective of the employer. Statutory employees are less expensive to hire than regular employees because the employer does not have to pay unemployment taxes. However, such employees are more expensive to hire than independent contractors because Social Security and Medicare taxes must be paid on wages in the form of FICA tax. Statutory employees pay FICA tax through their employer, and so do not pay self-employment tax; despite this, they must report expenses, income and wage.\n\nSimilar to independent contractors, statutory employees may deduct business expense from W-2 earnings.\n\n"}
{"id": "33689446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33689446", "title": "The Queen's Award for Enterprise: Innovation (Technology) (2011)", "text": "The Queen's Award for Enterprise: Innovation (Technology) (2011)\n\nThe Queen's Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Development (Innovation Technology) (2011) was awarded on 21 April 2011, by Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nThe following organisations were awarded this year.\n\n"}
{"id": "48897238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48897238", "title": "The a2 Milk Company", "text": "The a2 Milk Company\n\nThe a2 Milk Company Limited (previously known as A2 Corporation) is an ASX 200 public listed company that commercialises intellectual property relating to a2 milk, as well as the milk and related products like infant formula.\n\nThe a2 Milk Company is the successor of A2 Corporation Limited, a New Zealand company founded in 2000 by Dr Corran McLachlan, who was researching health effects of A1 beta-casein; and Howard Paterson who was one of New Zealand's richest men, a significant dairy farmer, and an important stakeholder in Fonterra, a dairy cooperative. The company commercialised a genetic test to determine whether a cow will produce milk without the A1 protein, and to market a2 Milk.\n\nInitially, A2 Corporation focused on dairy farm breeding programs to develop herds that would produce only a2 milk. However the launch of a2 milk was delayed by opposition from Fonterra, which had protected contracts under New Zealand law with about 98% of New Zealand dairy farms. Seeking leverage in the battle with Fonterra over access to farmers, and over patent rights, Paterson led the company into litigation against Fonterra, asking the New Zealand High Court to order Fonterra to put health warnings on its conventional milk concerning risks of type 1 diabetes, heart disease, autism and schizophrenia due to the presence of A1 beta-casein, and to force Fonterra to publicly disclose all the information it had about the links between A1 beta-casein and health risks. The litigation threatened New Zealand's economy and international reputation as at the time Fonterra was responsible for 20% of New Zealand's exports. The press over the litigation and public concern over the claims of A2 Corporation led the New Zealand Food Safety Authority and the Ministry of Health and the Food Standards Australia New Zealand to issue statements confirming the safety of conventional milk.\n\nA2 Corporation was able to obtain agreements with enough dairy farmers to launch A2 milk in New Zealand at the end of April 2003. In the middle of 2003, both founders of the company died. In July, Paterson was found dead in his hotel room during a business trip at the age of 50, and a month later Dr Corran McLachlan died of cancer at the age of 59. In New Zealand it is illegal to make health claims about a food product without providing scientific evidence and registering the food as a medicine, and in November 2003 the New Zealand Commerce Commission advised that A2 Corporation Ltd and its licensed A2 producers had agreed to amend the health claims in their promotional material following a warning from the commission. By end of 2003 the weakened A2 Corporation had withdrawn the litigation against Fonterra and negotiations had resumed.\n\nThe company, which had been in a tenuous financial situation since beginning trading in May, went into administration in October and was liquidated in November, owing farmers and processors tens of thousands of dollars. A $1.27 million federal government grant awarded to the company in August as part of the Regional Partnerships Program was also cancelled. A2 Corporation set up a new subsidiary and licensee, A2 Australia, to market and produce its product. A2 Australia established new contracts with the dairy farmers who had A2 herds, promising better payment terms—a week in advance instead of once per month, after shipment.\n\nIn December, A2 Corporation sold its interests in A2 Australia to Fraser & Neave, a food marketing giant in Asian markets, for about $1.1 million. A2 Corporation had lost about $1.3 million for 2004, the same as it has lost the year before; the sale allowed A2 Corporation to rely on Fraser & Neave to build the Australian and Asian businesses. A2 Corporation focused on recovering from the deaths of its founders organizationally and financially, relied on its New Zealand licensees to develop the New Zealand market, and turned its focus to developing overseas markets.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2006, A2 Corporation business continued to grow. Dairy Australia, the national association of the Australian dairy industry, and market competitors like Parmalat in response have consistently stated that there is no conclusive scientific evidence to suggest A1 proteins are dangerous and have warned that criticism of normal milk is damaging the entire dairy industry.\n\nIn 2006, A2 Corporation was on sound enough footing to buy back A2 Australia from Fraser & Neave. In 2006, it lost about $1 million, after having lost $9 million the year before, but revenues had approximately doubled. In that year it warned shareholders not to expect profit for another three years.\n\nCommercial development proceeded, and by 2010 some 40 million litres of a2 Milk were being produced by 12,000 A2-certified cows across Australia, with milk processed at four plants in Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland, and yoghurt made with a2 Milk went on the market in Australia in April 2010.\n\nIn February 2011 A2 Corporation announced it had a made a profit over a half-year for the first time; in the six months ending 31 December 2010, it made a net $894,000, or 17 cents/share.\n\nIn December 2012 A2 Corporation announced it would attempt to raise $20 million and list on the New Zealand Stock Exchange main board, and that it would use the funds to grow its Chinese infant formula and UK milk businesses. It listed in March 2013.\n\nIn 2015, a2 Milk whole milk powder and a2 Milk Ice Cream products were launched. For the 2014–2015 Financial year, The a2 Milk Company reported its Australian and New Zealand segment revenue grew by 40% vs pcp; and sales on a2 infant formula increased by 650%.\n\nIn December 2017 the company announced that in the summer of 2018 Geoffrey Babidge, who had been nearing retirement age, would step down and Jayne Hrdlicka would take over as CEO; at that time she was CEO of Jetstar Airways. She took over in July 2018. At that time the company was experiencing strong growth via sales in China and had ramped up spending to further increase Chinese sales and to expand the US market.\n\na2 claims that milk containing A1 proteins are harmful, but a 2009 European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) review of scientific literature found there was insufficient evidence to prove that bioactive peptides in A1 milk have a negative effect on health.\n\nA1 and A2 beta-casein are genetic variants of the beta-casein milk protein that differ by one amino acid. The A1 beta-casein type is the most common type found in cow's milk in Europe (excluding France), the USA, Australia and New Zealand. A genetic test, developed by the A2 Milk Company, determines whether a cow produces the A2 or A1 type protein in its milk. The test allows the a2 Milk Company to license milk producers once proven their cows produce only A2 beta-casein protein in their milk, to the exclusion of the A1 beta-casein protein type.\n\nA2 Corporation licensed patents filed in the 1990s by the New Zealand Dairy Board, and filed its own patents on genetic tests to determine what form of beta-casein cows produce in milk, and concerning potential adverse health consequences of A1 milk.\n\nBy 2012 A2 Corporation had developed a worldwide suite of intellectual property, including trademarks, trade secrets, and patents covering products, the genetic test and methods to develop A2 producing herds, as well as methods to check the protein content and fatty acid content of milk, dietary supplements with A2 beta-casein, and even therapeutic uses of A2.\n\nThe a2 Milk Company continues to develop a portfolio of intellectual property, including trademarks and patents. The a2 Milk Company also invests in targeted research and development associated with the benefits of the A2 protein. In September 2017, It was reported that A2 Milk got approval to keep selling its products in China.\n\nSales of a2 Milk in Australia and New Zealand boosted significantly following 2007, after the publication of a book, \"Devil in the Milk\" by Keith Woodford, about A1 beta-casein and its perceived dangers to health and prompted the New Zealand Food Safety Authority to propose again reviewing the science to address consumer concerns that A1 milk might be harmful. It asked the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) to undertake such a review. The EFSA report, released in 2009, found that \"a cause and effect relationship is not established between the dietary intake of BCM7 (beta-casomorphin-7), related peptides or their possible protein precursors and non-communicable diseases”.\n\nThe a2 Milk Company launched an infant formula in New Zealand and Australia in September 2013 and a2 Milk thickened cream was launched in January 2014.\n\nA2 Corporation changed its name to The a2 Milk Company Limited effective April 2014, and at that time had about 8% market share of the milk products market in Australia.\n\nIn 2014 Lion, a beverage and food company that operates in Australia and New Zealand and is owned by Kirin, relaunched their \"Pura\" milk product with a new label stating: \"Naturally contains A2 protein.\"\n\nThe a2 Milk Company announced in November 2014 that it had begun the application process for a dual listing on the Australian Securities Exchange in a bid to open its register to Australian investors and boost the liquidity of its shares. The company successfully listed on ASX 30 March 2015.\n\nIn August 2003, The a2 Milk Company exclusively licensed patent and trademark rights to US-based Ideasphere Incorporated (ISI) to market a2 Milk products in North America. ISI acquired Twinlab in September 2003, followed by another string of acquisitions in the dietary supplement market. In June 2005, ISI and A2 Corporation agreed to form a joint venture, a2 Milk Company LLC.\n\nIn April 2007 A2 Corporation announced a deal in which the joint venture would license rights to the Original Foods Company, whose branding the a2 Milk product would carry, and in which the product would be sold in several midwestern states through the Hy-Vee supermarket chain.\n\nIn A2 Corporation's 2009 Annual Report, the company announced that the joint venture had regained all rights to the US market through a settlement with the Original Foods Company, and that \"The US dairy milk market remains intensely competitive and continues to be a major challenge.\" In 2010 The a2 Milk Company bought out all but less than 1% of ISI's share in the joint venture.\n\nThe a2 Milk Company formed a joint venture with a major British milk supplier, Müller Wiseman Dairies, in November 2011 to process, market and sell its a2 Milk products in Britain and Ireland. In June 2014 The a2 Milk Company reported it had 20 dedicated farms supplying milk for processing in the UK. In its first year the milk recorded ₤1 million in sales through 1000 stores. On 1 January 2014, The a2 Milk Company exited its joint venture with Müller Wiseman Dairies by acquiring MWD's stake for a “nominal” amount.\n\nThe first consignments of The a2 Milk Company infant formula - a2 Platinum were sent to China in 2013. Exports to China have increased dramatically following the 2008 Chinese milk scandal.\n"}
{"id": "51615572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51615572", "title": "Thomas Moody (1779–1849)", "text": "Thomas Moody (1779–1849)\n\nColonel Thomas Moody (1779–1849), , Knight of the Order of Military Merit of France, was a British Aide-de-camp to the Colonial Office, Royal Engineer, and merchant. He served as the Commander of the Royal Engineers in the West Indies, as the Director of several trading companies in the City of London, and as an Advisor to the East India Company.\n\nMoody was Parliamentary Commissioner into the conditions of African slaves in the West Indies, as which he engaged in a feud with Lord Macaulay. Moody's ultimate conclusion was that the indentured Africans in the West Indies should be taken back to West Africa.\n\nIn 1828, Moody and his friend Sir James Stirling offered to colonise Australia using their own capital, but were prohibited from doing so by the British Government.\n\nHe was the father of Major-General Richard Clement Moody, the founder of British Columbia and first British Governor of the Falkland Islands, and Colonel Hampden Clement Blamire Moody CB, the Commander of the Royal Engineers in China, amongst others.\n\nThomas was born into a family with an extensive history of military service to the British Empire. He was the third son of Thomas Moody (1732–1796) and Barbara Blamire (1740–1806), who was a member of the Blamire family of Cumberland and a cousin of William Blamire MP, High Sheriff of Cumberland, and a cousin of the poet Susanna Blamire. He was born in Longtown, Cumbria. His eldest brother, Charles, was a merchant in the West Indies, and his other brother, George, was a surgeon.\n\nIn character, Moody was obsessed with social hierarchy, discipline, and surveillance: with what he termed 'the bonds of respect and subordination'.\n\nMoody was a Freemason and was described by Sir Humphrey Fleming Senhouse as 'an Officer of high character and reputation'.\nMoody was incorporated in diverse factions of the London establishment. Inside the Colonial Office, Moody had 'all its archives open to him'. In the City of London, Moody was an Advisor to the East India Company; a Director of the Crown Life Assurance Company, of 33 Bridge Street, Blackfriars; and a Director of the New Brunswick and Nova Scotia Land Company, of 5 Coptball Court, London. \nHe was a member of the Political Economy Club, at which he disputed with both James Mill and John Ramsay McCulloch, and at which he admired the philosophy of Jean-Baptiste Say. Moody’s other friends included Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, with whom he had an extensive private correspondence, and after\nwhom he named one of his sons; Shute Barrington, Bishop of Durham, after whom he named another of his sons; Sir James Leith, after whom he named another of his sons; Sir Humphrey Fleming Senhouse; Charles-Augustin de Coulomb; James Macqueen; James Mangles; Thomas Hyde Villiers; and Sir James Stirling.\n\nMoody was a polymath who read in several languages, and in diverse subjects, including philosophy, climatology, sociology, economics, history, and physics. His reading included the works of Montesquieu; William Petty; William Robertson; Charles-Augustin de Coulomb (whom he knew personally, and of whom he was a fervent admirer);Johannes van den Bosch; and those of the Africans Toussaint Louverture and Henri Christophe. He was also influenced by the African Jean-Pierre Boyer, the President of Haiti. He disputed the economic philosophy of James Mill, that of John Ramsay McCulloch, and that of Adam Smith, and admired the philosophy of Jean-Baptiste Say.\nMoody was also extensively read in abolitionist literature.\n\nMoody arrived in Barbados in 1797, to serve as mathematics master, writing master, and Assistant Headmaster, of Codrington College, at which he served until 1805. In these positions, Moody demonstrated such an aptitude for mathematics that Lord Seaforth, the British General in Barbados, granted Moody his patronage, and procured for Moody a direct commission in the Royal Engineers, which Moody entered as a Lieutenant on 1 July 1806. Moody's first duty was to administer the Office of Ordinance in Demerara, and he proceeded, subsequently, to distinguish himself in the Napoleonic Wars. Moody was promoted to Second Captain on 1 May 1811; to Captain on 20 December 1814; and to Brevet Major on 23 May 1816. \n\nMoody served as aide-de-camp to Sir James Leith, who was Governor of Barbados from May 1815 to October 1816, and Superintendent of the Crown Plantations in Guadeloupe. Moody named his son James Leith Moody after Leith, of whom he was a fervent admirer. During his service as aide-de-camp to Leith, Thomas Moody was involved in the successful Invasion of Guadeloupe (1815), for which he was subsequently knighted, in 1820, by Louis XVIII, in the Order of Military Merit. Moody also served as aide-de-camp to both the President of Tortola; and to Stapleton Cotton, 1st Viscount Combermere, who was Governor of Barbados from 1817 to 1820, after whom Moody named one of his sons. Thomas was put on half-pay by the Army, in 1815, at the cessation of the Napoleonic Wars, in which he had served with distinction: subsequently, he spent one year in Guiana as an attorney for Wolfert Katz, who was the wealthiest planter in the colony.\n\nIn 1816, Moody was responsible for the transfer of groups of rescued Africans to the Crown estates in Guadeloupe. Moody believed that rescued Africans made an 'extremely useful' contribution to the British Empire. His competent performance in this appointment may have contributed to his subsequent appointment as a Parliamentary Commissioner on Slavery.\n\nMoody owned plantations in Barbados by 1816, but he supported the Barbados Slave Rebellions of September and October 1816, which he witnessed, and which he described as an attempt 'by the mass of the slaves... to gain independence'.\n\nThomas owned extensive plantations and estates in the Caribbean, including in Barbados, Guiana, Demerara, Berbice, and Tortola. He was a claimant on insolvent estates in Berbice in 1827 (\"The Times\", 4 April 1827, p. 4) and was awarded the compensation for one enslaved person in British Guiana.\nIn 1820, Moody was knighted by Louis XVIII in the Order of Military Merit for defending the French colony of Guadeloupe. He was permitted by George IV to wear the Cross of the Order whilst in Britain, but not to use the title 'Sir'. Moody received the rank of Major in the British Army for his services in conflicts in the West Indies.\n\nIn 1821, William Wilberforce proposed to the House of Commons the creation a Commission to investigate the condition of slaves in the West Indies due to omnipresent reports that the Slave Trade Act 1807, which had made the trade of slaves illegal, was being universally violated by wealthy plantation owners, who were redesignating their slaves as 'apprentices' and continuing to trade. There were to be two commissioners who were to report to Lord Bathurst, Secretary of State for War and the Colonies. Moody and John Dougan (1765-1826) volunteered for each of the commissionerships and were selected by Bathurst. Moody was a friend of the President of Tortola, the island on which the commissioners were to commence their investigations.\n\nDougan was the son of an owner of sugar plantations on Demerara: Dougan stated, 'all my nearest relations and friends were either Planters or Owners of slaves'. Dougan had lived on Tortola, where he worked as a merchant, privateer, Prize Agent for the Royal Navy, and Colonial administrator. Dougan was the uncle of Moody's wife, Martha Clement, and the son of a slave-plantation owner.\n\nDougan was influenced by the zealous idealism of Whig agitators in England, such as the Quaker John Barton, and by the Clapham Sect, with which he was associated. Moody, in contradistinction, was influenced by Montesquieu, William Petty, William Robertson, Charles-Augustin de Coulomb, Johannes van den Bosch, and by the Africans Toussaint Louverture, Henri Christophe, and Jean-Pierre Boyer, the President of Haiti. Moody was also extensively read in abolitionist literature, and had noted that Stephen's recommendation, in 1802, of a period of indenture had provided the basis for both the Act for the Abolition of the Slave Trade, and for the Orders in Council.\n\nMoody and Dougan arrived on Tortola in May 1822. Moody objected to the interview process recommended by the Commission, in which masters and apprentices were supposed to be interviewed together, because he thought that it were 'calculated to excite complaints of the servant against the master'. Among the ex-slaverowners interviewed by Moody was Abraham Mendes Belisario, the Deputy Provost Marshal of Tortola, who possessed 17 African apprentices. As a consequence of the unreliability of the reports of apprentices that such masters provided, which were known as 'Characters' of apprentices, Moody insisted that such reports should not be heard, nor quoted in the official Commission report, but that he and Dougan, the Commissioners, should specify only their own opinions of the masters of the apprentices.\n\nThe Commissioners recorded that many black African apprentices were employed by free black Africans. When ‘apprentices’ employed by H. C. Maclean, a prosperous merchant who served as Comptroller of the Customs on Tortola, complained to the Commission, Macclean had them beaten. Moody refused to criticise Macclean: Dougan objected to Moody's refusal, but received no sympathy amongst the Colonial administration of the islands. This event provoked a spiteful feud between Dougan and Moody: Dougan complained about the 'state of Irritation and Disunion of the Commission'. Dougan attempted to reconcile himself with Moody, but Moody refused to forgive him, and, as a consequence, Dougan was compelled to resign from the Commission, in June 1822, to return to England, and to submit his report to the House of Commons in private. In this report, dated 20 December 1823, Dougan contends that \"free labour in the West Indies is preferable to compulsory labour\". On his resignation, Dougan stated that '[the] repeated attacks, the State of Irritation of Major Moody's Mind, and all hopes of Conciliation [were] ended': however, their 'protracted and unpleasant dispute' continued even after the death of Dougan, in 1826, subsequent to which his efforts for reform were continued by his daughter, Mary, between whom and Moody the feud continued.\n\nIn 1824, Moody's friend Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, forwarded one of Moody's papers to George Canning, then Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Subsequently, in 1825, Moody returned to London and presented to the House of Commons an exposition of the reasons for his refusal to sign the report prepared by Dougan in Tortola, in addition to the official Commission report, which he had completed on his own, without Dougan, and which he submitted without the consent of Dougan, that is dated 2 March 1825, and consists of over 200 pages. Moody's official Commission report contends that \"without some species of coercion African labour would be worthless\". The Whig Lord Macaulay described Moody's report as 'in substance, a defence of West Indian slavery', but Moody described his theories as a 'Philosophy of Labour', and himself as a 'practical philanthropist'. Lord Macaulay's description is inaccurate because, although Moody desired the employment of Africans, Moody did not desire their employment under conditions of enslavement: indeed, Moody had supported the Barbados Slave Rebellions of September and October 1816, despite owning plantations in Barbados. \nMoody was influenced by the theory of the climatological determination of the human constitution that was advocated by Montesquieu, and contended that it were a 'physical fact' that only blacks possessed the ability to perform agricultural labour in the 'torrid zone'. Moody was also extensively read in abolitionist literature.\n\nMoody's ultimate conclusion was that the indentured Africans in the West Indies should be taken back to West Africa.\n\nMoody submitted a second report, also of over 200 pages, in 1826. Moody's philosophy also analysed Dutch agricultural colonies, the Bengal peasantry, slavery in India, prostitution in Sierra Leone, slavery in the United States, and the American Colonization Society for African-American settlement in West Africa.\n\nMoody's philosophy, which incorporated innumerable scholarly references, won the advocacy of the director of the Commission, Lord Bathurst, and of his Under-Secretary, Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, with whom Moody had an extensive private correspondence; of the Tories; and of the advocates of Britain's\ncolonial empire: Parliament declared Moody's ‘great experience in the control of labour, both slave and free, both African and European, in garrison, and in the field’, and his notions were highly influential in London society in its entirety. Moody was incorporated in diverse factions of the London establishment. Inside the Colonial Office, Moody had 'all its archives open to him'. Moody was a friend of the imperialist James Macqueen, to whom he provided inside information, which Macqueen would not disclose, throughout the period 1824 - 1828. Moody was a member of the Political Economy Club, at which he disputed with both James Mill and John Ramsay McCulloch, and at which he stated his admiration for the philosophy of Jean-Baptiste Say. Moody maintained an extensive private correspondence with Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, (after whom he named one of his sons), and another with Shute Barrington, Bishop of Durham (after whom he named another of his sons), before he returned to the West Indies. In the City of London, Moody was an Advisor to the East India Company; a Director of the Crown Life Assurance Company, of 33 Bridge Street, Blackfriars; and a Director of the New Brunswick and Nova Scotia Land Company, of 5 Coptball Court, London. Subsequent to the publication of his reports, Moody became increasingly close to James Mangles, the Director of the East India Company, to whom he subsequently proffered advice regarding the settlement of the Swan River Colony at minimal cost to the British Government. However, Moody's report provoked the Whigs, evangelicals, and abolitionists to ire. Zachary Macaulay and other abolitionists condemned Moody's philosophy in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, and Lord Macaulay cited Moody's reports in an anti-slavery essay that was published in the Edinburgh Review in\nin 1827. Moody's contentions and his style of expression were condemned by Lord Macaulay, and in a series of anonymous letters to the Morning Chronicle newspaper, all which provoked extensive defensive refutations from Moody. Throughout the period in which London political society responded to his reports, Moody maintained a continuous dialogue with the Colonial Office, in which he vigorously refuted the criticisms of his reports, and repudiated the doctrines of his critics in private correspondences and in the newspapers. Moody's friends Sir Robert Wilmot Horton and Thomas Hyde Villiers MP also wrote articles - under the pseudonym 'Vindex', which Moody had also used - to the Star newspaper, in which they refuted the objections that others had made to Moody's philosophy and defended Moody. Moody proceeded to testify before the Privy Council, on the matter, in 1828. Moody's report influenced Lord Bathurst, Sir Henry Taylor, and James Stephen.\n\nDougan was infuriated when he discovered that Moody had submitted the report without his consent, and began to compose a response, but he died, destitute, in September 1826, before he had completed his response. Dougan's response was completed after his death by his daughter, Mary, but it was intercepted by Moody, who annotated it extensively with refutations, before it reached Bathurst. A feud between Moody and Mary Dougan continued after the death of John Dougan.\n\nFor their efforts, Dougan and Moody were each made a Justice of the Peace.\n\nWhen the British Government abandoned plans to implement the plans of Sir James Stirling to settle the Swan River Colony, Stirling and Moody, in August 1828, offered form an association of private capitalists that would settle Australia, using their own capital, observing the 'principles' that had been observed by William Penn in the settlement of Pennsylvania, but this proposal was rejected by the government.\n\nMoody’s residential office at the Colonial Office was abolished in 1828. His departure from this office was a consequence of his 'unpopularity with the saints'. Moody returned to the West Indies in 1828, to perform special service in the Dutch Colonies for Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, which he completed in 1829. During this period in which he were in the West Indies, Moody rose from the rank of Major to that of Colonel in the Royal Engineers. \nMoody served as Commander of the Royal Engineers in the West Indies from 1829 to 1837: he was made a Lieutenant-Colonel in 1830 and had been promoted to Colonel by 1847.\n\nThe British Government considered Moody to be a highly competent civil engineer and consulted him in regard of several important projects, such as the Caledonian Railway, the West Cumberland Railway, and the Furness Railway, and the embankments at Morecambe Bay and at Duddon Sands. For his civil engineering, Moody received a DCL degree from the University of Oxford.\n\nThe Government appointed Moody as the director of two major government manufactories, one making gunpowder and the other making small arms, at Waltham Abbey.\n\nThomas was posted, by the Colonial Office, to Guernsey in 1846.\n\nThomas Moody's London residences were 7 Alfred Place, Bedford Square, and 23 Bolton Street, Mayfair. He died on 5 September 1849 at Berrywood House, near Southampton. In 1852, an advertisement appeared in The Times (02/06/1852 p. 1.) for unclaimed stock of the value of £120 that had been the property of 'Lieutenant-Colonel [sic] Thomas Moody, of Waltham Abbey', and the dividends of which had been unclaimed since 1839.\n\nIt is likely that the illustrious reputation, at the Colonial Office, that Thomas had acquired, contributed to the Office's decision to appoint his son, Richard Clement Moody, to the position of Lieutenant-Governor of the Falkland Islands when Richard Clement Moody was only the unprecedentedly young age of 28 years. Thomas's reputation may also have contributed to the appointment of Richard Clement Moody as the first Lieutenant-Governor of British Columbia, by Sir Edward Bulwer-Lytton, in 1858.\n\nOn 1 January 1809, Thomas married Martha Clement (1764–1868), who was the daughter of Richard Clement (1754–1829), a Dutch landowner of Barbados, and the niece of John Dougan (1765-1826). Thomas's father in law, Richard Clement, after whom Thomas named his son Richard Clement Moody, was the owner of the Black Bess (196 slaves) and Clement Castle (220 slaves) estates on St Peter's Island, which passed to Clement's sole remaining son, Hampden Clement, on his death. Thomas and Martha had 10 children, 8 of whom were living at the time of their father's death.\n"}
{"id": "4353528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4353528", "title": "Val de Seine", "text": "Val de Seine\n\nThe Val de Seine is one of the most important business districts of the Paris agglomeration. Located southwest of the city, it spreads along a bend of the Seine, mainly in the municipalities\nof Boulogne-Billancourt and Issy-les-Moulineaux and in the 15th arrondissement of Paris.\n\nThe district, dominated by industry during most of the 20th century, has specialized since the 1980s in communication activities and today it is the most important business district of the Paris agglomeration in that field. The Val de Seine contains the headquarters of most major French TV networks, including TF1, France Télévisions, Arte, Canal+, TPS, Eurosport and France 24.\n"}
{"id": "23173851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23173851", "title": "World Innovation Forum (New York City)", "text": "World Innovation Forum (New York City)\n\nThe World Innovation Forum is a business innovation summit held annually in New York City. The event is organized by HSM, an executive education and management content firm.\n\nThe World Innovation Forum is a two-day event in which business executives learn ideas and strategies to maximize innovation within their organizations. Officially launched in 2006, the event takes place around May to June of each year in New York City. The event's speakers are top business and intellectual pioneers in the field of innovation. The World Innovation Forum brings together approximately 900 attendees, consisting mostly of senior executives, from over 20 countries and 23 states. In 2007, two forums took place—one was held at Newport Beach in Orange County, California in the Island Hotel in addition to the one in New York City.\n\nPast speakers in the World Innovation Forum include sought-after business advisers such as Gary Hamel, Clayton Christensen, and Vijay Govindarajan, as well as distinguished professors such as Dan Ariely.\n\nThe event is organized by HSM, an executive education and management content firm which has been holding business conferences globally for over 20 years under the names World Business Forum and ExpoManagement.\n\nThe 2012 World Innovation Forum will be held at the New York City Center on June 20–21, 2012 and will feature the following speakers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37713677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37713677", "title": "Yannis Vardinoyannis", "text": "Yannis Vardinoyannis\n\nΥannis Vardinoyannis (; born April 7, 1962) is a Greek of Cretan descent, the first-born son of Vardis Vardinogiannis. Αfter graduating from the Athens College High School, he continued his university studies at Vassar College where he majored in Economics.\n\nUpon graduation he served in the Hellenic Navy. Upon completion of his navy duties, he started working for the family business, which has interests in diverse sectors such as energy, refineries, banking, shipping and media. Simultaneously, he actively pursued car racing and won 6 Greek Rally titles from 1987 till 1992, when he retired. In May 1996 he got married and now has three sons.\n\nIn 2000, while continuing to work for various family companies, he also assumed the responsibility of Panathinaikos FC succeeding his uncle Yorgos Vardinoyannis. In 2005, he was a founding member of the Greek Super League and was elected President in 2007. He has been credited in his efforts to achieve European standards in the Greek football league.\n\nAt present, among other positions he serves as the Executive Vice Chairman of the independent oil refinery Motor Oil Hellas.\n"}
{"id": "30687569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30687569", "title": "Yuri Milner", "text": "Yuri Milner\n\nYuri Borisovich (Bentsionovich) Milner (; born 11 November 1961) is an Israeli-Russian entrepreneur, venture capitalist and physicist. Milner is Russia's most influential tech investor as the founder of investment firms Digital Sky Technologies (DST) now called Mail.ru Group and DST Global. Through DST Global, Milner is an investor in Facebook, Zynga, Twitter, Flipkart, Spotify, Zocdoc, Groupon, JD.com, Xiaomi, OlaCabs, Alibaba, Airbnb, WhatsApp, Nubank, Wish and many others.\n\nMilner's personal investments also include a stake in 23andMe, Habito, Planet Labs, minority stake in a real estate investments start-up, Cadre, founded by Jared Kushner, and others. \n\nIn September 2017 Forbes included Milner to the list of 100 greatest living business minds. Milner was named one of the World's Greatest Leaders by \"Fortune\" magazine in March 2017, was listed in the \"Titans\" category of \"Time\" magazine's 2016 \"Time\" 100. \"Foreign Policy\" magazine included Milner on its \"Power List\" – an inaugural list of the 500 most powerful people on the planet in May 2013. Milner was included in Bloomberg Markets' 2012 50 Most Influential list. In \"Fortune\"s 2010 list of the world's fifty most prominent businessmen, Milner was ranked 46th. That same year Russian business magazine \"Vedomosti\" recognized him as \"Businessman of the Year\".\n\nBorn into a Jewish family on 11 November 1961 in Moscow, Yuri Milner was the second child of Russian intellectuals. His father, , was active in the sphere of management and organisation. He was Chief Deputy Director at the Institute of Economics of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Betty Iosifovna Milner, Yuri's mother, worked at the capital's state-run virological laboratory for disease control. His older sister, eight years his senior, is an architect.\n\nMilner studied theoretical physics at Moscow State University, graduating in 1985. He went on to work at Lebedev Physical Institute, one of the institutes of the Russian Academy of Sciences, in the same department as the Nobel Prize winner Vitaly Ginzburg. As a doctoral candidate in particle physics, Milner befriended Soviet nuclear physicist and human rights activist Andrei Sakharov. Sakharov's forward thinking would later influence Milner's venture investment strategy.\n\nIn 1990, Milner became the first non-émigré from the Soviet Union to go to the United States to receive an MBA at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. The press quoted him as saying that he made this decision after \"being disappointed in myself as a physicist\". Milner was a commencement speaker for Wharton Business School 2017 class. \n\nMilner started his business career selling grey market DOS computers in the Soviet Union, which displeased his father. When the national government collapsed, he stopped selling computers to enroll at the Wharton School to earn an MBA.\n\nAfter graduating, Milner spent the first half of the 1990s at the World Bank in Washington, D.C., as a Russian banking specialist focused on the development of private sector banking. He has described his time at the World Bank as his \"lost years\", due to watching from afar the privatization of government holdings during the presidency of Boris Yeltsin. In the spring of 1995, Milner was appointed CEO of Alliance-Menatep, an investment brokerage company belonging to then oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky. In December 1996 Milner worked as Vice President and Head of Investment Management of Menatep Bank. In February 1997 Milner was appointed the deputy chairman and the head of the investment division of Menatep Bank but left this position in early 1998. At the time, the market makers described him as \"a well-known professional, who will bring the bank valuable experience in international financial institutions and transactions in the Russian investment market\".\n\nIn 1999, after reading a review by Morgan Stanley analyst Mary Meeker on the prospects for online businesses, Milner decided to create an internet company. He sought funding from his friend from Menatep days Gregory Finger, who at the time led the Russian branch of the US investment fund New Century Holding. The fund agreed to invest $4.5 million with the proviso that Milner and Finger each personally invest $750,000. Milner, Finger, and NCH created a new company, NetBridge. In 2000, Milner became the president of Netbridge Services Ltd (netBridge) – the company that was, \"created as an Internet incubator and investment fund\". Netbridge succeeded in transferring a variety of U.S.-pioneered internet business models to Russia, creating companies including the portal List.ru, online auction site Molotok.ru (based on eBay), free web-hosting Boom.ru (based on GeoCities), and online shop 24×7, using the formula of Amazon.com.\n\nIn February 2001, netBridge and Port.ru (which owned Mail.ru) announced a merger. Milner became CEO of the new company named Mail.ru (though the legal name Port.ru was also retained).\n\nFrom January 2003 to December 2004, Milner was the CEO of \"Neftyanoi\", owned by Igor Linshits.\n\nIn 2005, NCH shifted its focus from Russian Internet projects and Milner founded the investment fund Digital Sky Technologies (DST), becoming its chairman in 2006. A meeting through mutual friends resulted in Alisher Usmanov becoming a shareholder of Mail.ru Group in 2008.\n\nIn 2010 Mail.ru Group completed successful initial public offering on the London Stock Exchange with market valuation of $5.6 billion.\n\nIn March 2012, Milner stepped down from the role of chairman of Mail.ru and from the board of directors. Dmitry Grishin was elected to the board and appointed as chairman while retaining his CEO position. There were no other changes to management or to the board.\n\nPost Mail.ru Group’s IPO, DST is the sole vehicle for further international investments. The company is now fully independent of Mail.ru Group.\n\nFrom May 2009 to January 2012 Milner was a member of the Commission on Modernization established by Dmitry Medvedev, the Russian President from 2008 to 2012.\n\nIn January 2009, while in Palo Alto, Milner became acquainted with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg. The meeting led to an agreement on 26 May 2009 under which DST bought a 1.96% stake in Facebook for $200 million.\n\nOn 16 September 2010, Digital Sky Technologies (DST) changed its name to \"Mail.ru Group\". The group's portfolio included Mail.ru, Odnoklassniki.ru, ICQ, a minority stake in the social network VKontakte (Russian Facebook equivalent), online payments service OSMP.ru, e‑Port, as well as some other Russian assets. Milner's commercial interests in Facebook, Zynga, and Groupon were transferred to DST Global. Milner became the CEO of DST Global and the chairman of the board of directors of Mail.ru Group. In November 2010, Mail.ru Group held its offering on the London Stock Exchange. In March 2012, Milner stepped down from the role of chairman of Mail.ru and from the board of directors. Milner focused on international Internet investments.\n\nDST Global became one of the world’s leading technology investors and its portfolio has included some of the world's most prominent internet companies, such as Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, Snapchat, Airbnb, Spotify, Alibaba, and others.\n\nOn 5 November 2017, \"The New York Times\" reported that Milner had strong Kremlin backing for his investments in Facebook and Twitter. Milner denied this allegations in his open letter published in ReCode \n\nOn 29 January 2011, Milner announced that he would invest $150,000 into each of the start‑up program participants selected by the incubator Y Combinator.\n\nOn 2 August 2011, DST Global invested $800 million in Twitter.\n\nIn September 2011, DST Global together with Silver Lake launched $1.6 billion tender offer for shares in the Alibaba Group.\n\nDST Global invested $125 million in WhatsApp.\n\nIn February 2014, it was announced that Milner had led a round of funding for cloud-graphics company, Otoy.\n\nIn May 2014, Flipkart raised $210 million in a financing round Led by DST Global.\n\nIn March 2015, British online luxury fashion company Farfetch said it raised $86 million from investment firm DST Global and existing shareholders, valuing the company at $1 billion.\n\nAccording to press reports, in April 2015 OlaCabs raised $315 million from DST Global and some existing investors.\n\nIn April 2016, online mortgage broker platform Habito launched with backing from Milner, amongst other fintech investors.\n\nIn July 2012, Yuri and Julia Milner established the Breakthrough Prize, joined the following year by Sergey Brin, Priscilla Chan, Anne Wojcicki and Mark Zuckerberg. The Prize is a set of international awards recognizing three fields of endeavor: Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics, Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences, and Breakthrough Prize in Mathematics. Laureates receive $3 million each in prize money, making the Breakthrough Prizes the largest scientific awards in the world. There are also New Horizons awards in physics and mathematics for younger researchers who have already produced significant work.\n\nCommittees of previous laureates choose the winners from candidates nominated in a process that is online and open to the public. , $174.8m in prize-money has been awarded to 70 individual scientists and four large research teams.\n\nThe Prizes are presented annually at a gala ceremony featuring celebrity presentations, films, comedy and live music. The last four ceremonies took place at Hangar One (Mountain View, California). The annual celebrations also includes symposiums in the three recognized fields. The program is broadcast live on the web.\n\nIn July 2015, Milner launched Breakthrough Initiatives, a scientific program to investigate the question of life in the Universe. He announced the initiatives at the Royal Society in London, alongside Stephen Hawking, Martin Rees, Frank Drake, Geoff Marcy and Ann Druyan.\n\nThree initiatives have been announced so far:\n\n\nThe first, Breakthrough Listen, will invest $100 million over 10 years in a search for evidence of civilizations beyond Earth. Utilizing the Green Bank, Parkes, Lick, and FAST observatories, Listen is searching for radio and laser signals from the nearest million stars, the nearest 100 galaxies, and the plane and center of the Milky Way. The initiative will also use the SETI@home distributed computing project.\n\nThe second initiative, Breakthrough Message, will be a $1 million annual prize for digital messages representing Earth and humanity, that could be decoded by another civilization. The messages will not be sent into space until a global discussion on the ethics of such a move has taken place.\n\nThe third project, Breakthrough Starshot, was announced 12 April 2016. Starshot is a US$100 million program to develop a proof-of-concept light sail spacecraft fleet capable of making the journey to Alpha Centauri at 20% the speed of light (60 million m/s or 215 million km/h) taking about 20 years to get there, and about 4 years to notify Earth of a successful arrival.\n\nOn 20 April 2017, the Breakthrough Discuss conference was held, during which the results of a year worth of data analysis was discussed. According to the researchers, 692 stars were analyzed.\n\nIn September 2015, the Breakthrough Prize launched the Breakthrough Junior Challenge, a science competition for people between thirteen and eighteen years of age, in collaboration with Khan Academy.\n\nMilner believes that the internet will develop into a \"global brain\"—which is often described as an intelligent network of individuals and machines—functioning as a nervous system for the planet Earth. He also envisages that the advent of the internet of things and ever increasing use of social media will increase humans' collective intelligence.\n\nIn an interview with \"Vedomosti\" in 2010, Milner said:\nIn the past few years I simply do not have time for hobbies. I am even starting to forget what I was fond of. Such as in the past it was reading of literature not related to work.\n\nMilner is married to former high fashion model and contemporary artist Julia Milner (\"née\" Bochkova). She is interested in photography: during the 52nd Venice Biennale of Contemporary Art she produced a contribution entitled \"Click I Hope\".\n\nIn 2011, Milner bought a $100 million home in Los Altos Hills. The compound spans three plots totaling seven hectares and includes a roughly main house and a guest house. The current tax bill is about $304,000 a year. \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported the price as $100 million, saying it was the most ever paid for a single-family home in the United States. The property is appraised by the Santa Clara County assessor at $50 million. Milner lives in Silicon Valley with his family. Milner attends synagogue, but says that he is only minimally religiously observant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51273044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51273044", "title": "İzmir Commodity Exchange", "text": "İzmir Commodity Exchange\n\nİzmir Commodity Exchange (ICE) is a commodities exchange based in İzmir, Turkey. It was the first commodities exchange established in Turky and focuses on agricultural products. It functions in accordance with the Turkish Law No. 5174 regarding the Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey and the Chambers and Commodity Exchanges.\n\nThe İzmir Commodity Exchange was established in İzmir, the 3rd largest province of Turkey, in 1891 as the first commodity exchange of Turkey.\n\nİzmir has always been an important hub for agricultural production and one of the centers for domestic and foreign trade throughout the Ottoman Empire and the Republic of Turkey. In fact, İzmir harbour was the most important export harbour of the Ottoman Empire in the early 20th century, which made the city the host for the first efforts to systemize the agricultural markets and the first commodity exchange of Turkey.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, the boost in the volume of the trade in İzmir urged the merchants to seek for new methods and regulations in order to catch up with novelties. Although new warehouses had been built to store the goods, unbalanced price adjustments, lack of proper statistics to determine demand and supply, and uncertainty of the money markets used to negatively affect the commercial life of the city. These problems caused the tradesmen and producers to suffer great losses. The tradesmen of İzmir commenced to make several attempts to overcome these problems. The Commercial Assembly and İzmir Chamber of Commerce were established in 1850 and 1885, respectively. The English, French, Italians and the Dutch had their own chambers of commerce in İzmir. However, these attempts had fallen behind in creating solutions to the problems of the market.\n\nAlthough the first legal arrangements in the Ottoman Empire were carried out in 1886, it is known that some attempts were made before this date to establish a commodity exchange in İzmir. It is also known that the building belonging to a tradesman called Nişli Hacı Ali Efendi was used as “the grain exchange” just before the 1890s. The arguments to establish a modern commodity exchange based on a legal status and conforming to certain rules were brought forward in the early 1890s. In 1891, two different commodity exchanges were attempted to be established by two different tradesmen, however, the General Commodity Exchange regulations specified only one commodity exchange in each city. Therefore, upon the inspections by the Ministry of Public Works, Nişli Hacı Ali Efendi’s Commodity Exchange was declared as the sole legal exchange in the city and it was inaugurated with a ceremony on Monday, 13 June 1892.\n\nThe first elections were held at the end of that year and the first board of directors was formed. The regulations came into effect on 21 January 1895. The products traded at the Exchange in 1897 were barley, wheat, refined flour, semolina, bran, rye, flour, corn, maize, chickpea, dry beans, black-eyed pea, hemp seed, vetch, aniseed, dent corn, sesame, broad bean, poppy seed, olive oil, cotton, cotton seed and opium poppy. The public was informed daily of the transactions and prices through the local newspapers, which made monitoring supply and demand volume of the market possible.\n\nAs the economic life was severely damaged and agricultural production decreased during the World War I and Turkish Independence War, İzmir Commodity Exchange experienced rough times. Following the independence of Turkey and declaration of the republic, the present building of the İzmir Commodity Exchange was built and opened with a ceremony on 11 June 1928.\n\nSince then, İzmir Commodity Exchange has been serving its members and the society in general in the same building, the Exchange Palace, located at Gazi Boulevard No:2, Konak/İzmir.\n\n"}
{"id": "22655426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22655426", "title": "Željko Kerum", "text": "Željko Kerum\n\nŽeljko Kerum (born 25 September 1960) is a Croatian entrepreneur and a politician. He was mayor of Split, between 2009 and 2013, after which he failed to qualify for the second round of elections. He also owned the supermarket chain \"Kerum\" until it folded in 2012.\n\nŽeljko Kerum was born in the village of Ogorje (part of Muć) in the Dalmatian hinterland. He graduated from the Technical High School in Split, Croatia in 1978. In 1981 he got his first job in the Split construction company \"Melioracija\" spending a year in Iraq working on military bases.\n\nHe founded the company \"Kerum\" in 1989, opening his first convenience store in 1990. Six years later he opened his first supermarket in the Lora neighborhood of Split. In 2003 he bought the \"Diokom\" industrial facilities (ex-\"Jugoplastika\") and in 2007 he opened the \"Joker\" Shopping Mall, the largest in Dalmatia at the time.\n\nIn the first round of the 2009 elections for mayor of Split, Kerum (independent) won 40.21% of the popular vote, while his closest rival Ranko Ostojić (SDP) won 34.72%. On May 31, he won 58.42% of the vote, making him the incumbent mayor of Split.\n\nIn September 2009 during a live television interview on the \"Nedjeljom u 2\" talk show that airs on the Croatian state broadcaster HRT 1, in response to host Aleksandar Stanković's question if Serb businessmen are welcome in Croatia, Kerum answered: \"If it was up to me I wouldn't let them because Serbs never brought us anything good in the past and they won't do it now. Not only Serbs, but also Montenegrins. And whoever is doing business with them will not make out OK\". Asked further by Stanković if he would accept a man of Serb ethnicity as a son-in-law, Kerum answered emphatically: \"No, never\".\n\nOn January 16, 2011 the citizens of Split, on the initiative of an informal group of citizens gathered on Facebook, protested at the Prva voda beach on the park mountain Marjan in Split against a change of city urban planning regulation that allowed construction of restaurants and bars in the beach area. According to plans, on the proposed beach site a company owned by his mistress Fani Horvat planned to build such an object, with the destruction of protected wood area. The idea was perceived as a nepotistic venture and favouring of Kerum's own interests instead of the city's. Kerum also caused a stir in Split when he proposed to build a 40 meter tall statue of Christ the Redeemer to rival that of Brazil.\n\nIn 2011, he became a candidate in the Croatian parliamentary election, 2011 on the electoral list of the Croatian Democratic Union.\n\nIn the Croatian local elections, 2013 Kerum won only 18.57% of the popular vote while re-running for mayor, which did not qualify him to the second round of the elections. Also, Kerum's Croatian Civic Party won only 12.41% of the popular votes for the city council of Split.\n\nIn the Croatian parliamentary election, 2015, his Croatian civic party won only 2234 votes in the two Dalmatian constituencies and became a non-parliamentary party.\n\nIn 1989 Kerum married Anka Lalin, with whom he has a daughter and son. In 2009, he surprised the public by publicly announcing he was divorcing his wife to be with his pregnant mistress Fani Horvat, who was nearly 25 years his junior. The news caused many in the media to point out the hypocrisy in his political image, where he has consistently presented himself as a supporter of traditional values and a conservative world view, but had been participating in an extramarital affair.\n\nKerum has been known to own expensive cars including a Hummer, a Mercedes S500, a BMW 7, a Maybach 62, a Ferrari F430, and a Ferrari 599 GTB Fiorano. His Cessna Citation X, a business jet worth approximately US$17 million, is the most expensive privately owned aircraft in Croatia.\n"}
