{"id": "4183306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4183306", "title": "Acts of Parliament (Commencement) Act 1793", "text": "Acts of Parliament (Commencement) Act 1793\n\nThe Acts of Parliament (Commencement) Act 1793 (33 Geo. 3 c. 13) was an Act of the Parliament of the Kingdom of Great Britain which provided that Acts of Parliament would come into force on the date on which they received royal assent, unless they specified some other date, instead of the first day of the session in which they were passed.\n\nPreviously, Acts of Parliament came into force on the first day of the session in which they were passed, because of the legal fiction that a session lasted one day. This meant that all Acts came into force retroactively, and that an Act could come into force on a date a year before it was actually passed. The preamble to this Act said that this was liable to produce \"great and manifest injustice\".\n\nThis Act provides that it applies to Acts of Parliament passed after 8 April 1793.\n\nThis Act imposes a duty on the Clerk of the Parliaments to endorse any Act which passes with the date (\"the day, month and year\") on which that Act passed and received royal assent. It provides that the date must be written, in English, immediately after the title of that Act, and that that endorsement is part of the endorsed Act.\n\nThis Act originally provided that the endorsed Act was to come into force on the date specified by the endorsement, where no other commencement was specified by the endorsed Act. The relevant words were repealed, on 1 January 1979 and have been replaced by section 4 of the Interpretation Act 1978, which says the same thing.\n\nBecause of the fiction that an Act had come into force on the first day of the session, it was also the convention in citing a pre-1793 Act to date it to the year in which the session had commenced. In the context of modern historical writing, however, it is more usual to date Acts (especially well-known and historically significant Acts) to the actual year in which they passed through Parliament. This leads to discrepancies in the way in which the same Act may be cited or referred to: for example, the Act of Uniformity (1 Eliz 1 c 2) is often dated to 1558 in legal contexts, but to 1559 in historical contexts; the Toleration Act (1 Will & Mary c 18) to 1688 in legal contexts, but 1689 in historical contexts; the Bill of Rights (1 Will & Mary sess 2 c 2) to 1688 in legal contexts, but 1689 in historical contexts; and the Union with Scotland Act (6 Anne c 11) to 1706 in legal contexts, but 1707 in historical contexts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36880606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36880606", "title": "Ancillary copyright for press publishers", "text": "Ancillary copyright for press publishers\n\nThe so-called ancillary copyright for press publishers () is a proposal incorporated in 2012 legislation proposed by the ruling coalition of the German government, led by Angela Merkel of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), to extend publishers' copyrights. The bill was agreed by the Cabinet at the end of August 2012 and submitted to parliament on 14 November 2012. It was passed by the on 1 March 2013 by 293 to 243, following substantial changes in the week before the vote.\n\nIn its original form, the law would have forced Internet content providers to pay fees, collected by a central clearinghouse, to publishers for displaying their content: fees would have been levied for even short snippets of news made available by news aggregators and web search engines. The intended effect would have been to force Google, a leading search engine, to pay publishers fees for display of news search results, causing the bill to be dubbed a \"Google tax\" by some. It would give press agencies the exclusive right to publish press releases for commercial purposes on the Internet and would require search engines such as Google to obtain licenses for using small text passages. A Google spokesman called it \"a black day for the Internet in Germany\". Many trade associations regard it as useless and critics fear a reduction in diversity of opinion. Wikimedia Deutschland regards this as dangerous \"for the creators of free content in general and for providers of open content platforms in particular\". It was agreed between the coalition parties, the CDU and the FDP in their coalition agreement for the 17th session of the German \"\".\n\nIt passed in the March 22, 2013, was published in the May 14, and came into force on August 1, 2013.\n\nGerman copyright law already provides for similar \"related rights\" in relation to other protected objects. They are regulated in sections 70 ' of the German Copyright Act ('). A press release from the German Federal Association of Newspaper Publishers (\"\", BDZV) dated 7 May 2009 justified the demand for such a \"related right\" for press publishers on the grounds that press enterprises needed to defend themselves against unpaid use of their products on the Internet. This demand found its expression in the coalition agreement, which, in line 4776, states:\nIn a speech to the Newspaper Congress of the German Federal Association of Newspaper Publishers in September 2011, the chancellor, Angela Merkel, stated that legislation on such related rights was in preparation:\nMerkel also announced that she would push the idea at the European level.\n\nOn 5 March 2012, the joint coalition committee agreed to introduce \"related rights\" for press publishers as part of the third basket of the reform of the German Copyright Act. Within a year, the commercial use of press products on the Internet, particularly for search engine providers and news aggregators, was to be subject to a charge. There was to be the equivalent of a performing rights society for collection and distribution of the fees. One thing that remains unclear is where the line should be drawn between chargeable commercial use and private use, which was to remain free.\n\nOn 14 June 2012, it became known that the German Federal Ministry of Justice had sent a draft of a bill to other ministries and lobby groups. This draft, which would insert new sub-sections 87f to 87h into the German Copyright Act is currently available on the Internet.\n\nOn 25 August 2016, Statewatch published a draft of the European Commission's impact assessment on the modernisation of EU copyright rules. This draft states that the Commission will indeed propose the introduction of an EU wide ancillary copyright for news publishers, contradicting reassurances from Andrus Ansip that no link tax would be introduced.\n\nNumerous German publishers entered a zero-cost licensing agreement with Google so that their content continued to be displayed on Google News.\n\nOpponents of the measure believe that granting copyright protection to what may be little more than headlines violates the freedom of speech. Till Kreutzer of the Bureau for Information Law Expertise wrote in 2011 that this expansion of copyright, sought by publishers since 2009, could cause \"collateral damage to fundamental freedoms like the freedom of the press, the freedom of expression, the freedom of science and education as well as the communication and publication practices on the Web.\"\n\nSupporters have stated that freedom of speech would be protected because \"journalistic citations from news articles\" would be exempt from the bill, as would private Internet users. Publishers perceive the fees as fair compensation for the effort put into reporting; in an example presented at a hearing on the bill, \"a bank employee reads his morning newspaper online and sees something about the steel industry, and then advises his clients to invest in certain markets ... The publishers argued that the bank consultant was only able to advise his clients because of the journalistic work in the published article. So that means the publisher deserves a fair share of any money made\"\n\nAccording to Till Kreuzer, writing in \"Computer Law & Security Review\" and cited by a group opposing the bill, \"\", the 2009 German coalition government announced in its coalition contract that \"Press Publishers shall not be discriminated against other disseminators of copyright protected works [e.g. film or music producers]. Therefore we aim for the introduction of a neighbouring right for press publishers to increase the protection of press publications on the Internet.\" However, Kreuzer disputed that the proposed right is comparable to neighboring rights for other forms of copyrighted media, writing that the regulation of extraction of snippets from news sources and regulation of the right to read (\"reception\") of the sites containing media were unprecedented in the law.\n\nThe co-founder of questioned what criteria would be used to determine eligibility to receive payments from the clearinghouse, noting that if every blog were eligible, benefits to newspapers would be very small. These criteria remain under consideration by drafters of the proposal.\n\nGerman authors of news articles retain author's right to control news articles after their publication, raising the question of how payments would be divided between publishers and authors.\n\nThe Federation of German Newspaper Publishers issued a statement that \"In the digital age, such a right is essential to protect the joint efforts of journalists and publishers,\" describing such revenues as \"an essential measure for the maintenance of an independent, privately financed news media.\"\n\nA spokesman of Google denounced the proposal: \"We don't have any sympathy for these plans, as an ancillary copyright lacks all factual, economic, and legal foundation. And we are not alone with this opinion: The Federation of German Industries (BDI) and 28 other associations vehemently oppose an ancillary copyright for publishers. The German parliament is divided on the issue as well. For a good reason: An ancillary copyright would mean a massive damage to the German economy. It's a threat to the freedom of information. And it would leave Germany behind internationally as a place for business.\" Critics have suggested that Google might respond to the law by ceasing to do business in Germany.\n\n\"The New York Times\" quoted Cristoph Keese, described as \"co-chairman of a copyright committee of German publishers\" and president of public affairs for Axel Springer, \"There is no other developed country that has given publishers this kind of right against aggregators. This could be a benchmark.\" The \"Times\" compared the measure to NewsRight, a system introduced by the \"Times\" and other newspapers, that tracks unpaid use of articles, while noting that the NewsRight system does not address the use of snippets.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42563863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42563863", "title": "Baidu Wangpan", "text": "Baidu Wangpan\n\nBaidu Wangpan (; translation: Baidu Web Drive) is a Cloud service provided by Baidu, Inc., headquartered in Haidian District in Beijing. It offers a cloud storage service, client software, file management, resources sharing, and Third Party Integration. After being created on one client terminal, files can be synchronized automatically on other internet-connected client terminals. It was launched as Baidu WangPan on 23 March 2012. On 22 August 2013, an offer of permanent free 2 Terabytes storage for users was announced.\n\nThe March 2012 Baidu Developer Conference released a Cloud development strategy, including the launch of a Developer Center Website (http://developer.baidu.com/en/)\n, and\na cloud storage platform called Baidu WangPan, meaning \"web disk\", for individual users. Baidu WangPan had PC and Android client terminals, provided users a free 15 GB of space and allowed users to upload files and access them. It operated in competition with established Cloud operations such as Dropbox.\n\nOn 19 August 2012, Baidu started to build its Cloud Computing Center in Shanxi's Yangquan, which is the hometown of Baidu's Founder Robin Li. Baidu was reported to invest CNY4.708 billion in this center, with CNY2.92 billion for equipment and CNY1.788 billion for infrastructure. It aimed to \"attract the world's top information technology manufacturers, and promote the information technology industry development in Yangquan and Shanxi.\"\n\nDuring the 2012 Baidu World Conference, Baidu announced upgrades to Baidu WangPan, and a re-branding to \"Baidu Cloud\". It also launched a new logo, using graphics of clouds, which has been used since. It also issued \"seven weapons\" for developers, including: PCS, Screen X technical building services Site App, applications, cloud MTC LBS moving clouds, cloud Test Engine, Baidu engine BAE, and kernel browsing.\n\nOn 19 November 2012, Baidu offered free cloud storage for Qualcomm chip-based devices. It provided Snapdragon-powered Android phones with 30GB cloud storage, which had been tailored to suit the Snapdragon S4 MSM 8×25 processor and the Snapdragon S4 MSM8x25Q processor.\n\nOn 22 August 2013, Baidu Cloud announced its offer of 2 Terabytes of free permanent storage for users, as its strategy in the Cloud Storage 'war' in China. The other competitors in the war included Tencent, and Qihoo 360, Sina, Huawei, 115.com. Before the war, China’s free storage services were mainly focused on storage capacity under 15GB.\n\nOn 11 October 2016, Baidu Yun were renamed to Baidu Wangpan. Meanwhile, its cloud computing services were renamed to Baidu Yun.\n\nBaidu Wangpan supports preview of files of photos, musics, videos and documents on each of its client terminal without downloading them as local files. The videos can be viewed directly on the web browsers, Android system, and iOS system. It provides file synchronization, enabling users to upload and download files of different types. It supports file sharing between different users, and different devices.\n\nBaidu Wangpan provides a platform to share resources. Combined with its own search engine, users can search resources and browse them online.\n\nBaidu's cloud operation can be divided into two main categories: 1. Personal users (http://yun.baidu.com), and 2. Developers (http://developer.baidu.com/en), which is the Open Cloud.\n\nOn 26 December 2013, the Japanese government's National Information Security Center (NISC) and Ministry of Education, Culture, Science and Technology advised 140 institutions to either disable the cloud-input function of Baidu Input Method Editors (IMEs) or stop using Baidu IMEs. According to Bloomberg News, Tsuneo Tosaka, IDC Japan's Software & Security Research Manager claimed: \"Baidu provides the service using a cloud server, which means content flows through servers in China\" and \"Government-related documents from Japan central ministries and findings from university research institutions are important, so there is a possibility that sensitive information leaks abroad.\" NISC also suggested not using Google input software and Microsoft input software. Baidu denied the claim and responded that the function aims to improve users' experience and vocabulary habits in the cloud, and \"the content uploaded to its server does not contain any personal and private information and the only aim of uploading is to improve users' experience\". It also said that there is no illegal uploading behavior or information leakage risk, as the uploaded information and servers are kept and managed in Japan.\n"}
{"id": "4849510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4849510", "title": "Bare trust", "text": "Bare trust\n\nA bare trust is a trust in which the beneficiary has a right to both income and capital and may call for both to be remitted into his own name. Assets in a bare trust are held in the name of a trustee, but the beneficiary has the right to all of the capital and income of the trust at any time if they’re 18 or over (in England and Wales), or 16 or over (in Scotland). Bare trusts are often used to pass assets to young people - the trustees look after them until the beneficiary is old enough.\n\nRecent amendments to the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS Act), allow superannuation funds to invest in any kind of asset and to borrow, charging those assets so long as there is no recourse for the borrowing against the superannuation fund. New section 67A & 67B provides that a fund can borrow money if:\n\n1. the borrowed monies are used to acquire an asset which the fund is not otherwise prohibited from acquiring\n\n2. the asset acquired (or a replacement asset) is held on trust (the holding trust) so the fund receives a beneficial interest in the asset\n\n3. the SMSF has the right to acquire legal ownership of the asset (or, if applicable, the replacement asset) by making one or more payments after acquiring the beneficial interest\n\n4. any recourse the lender has under the arrangement against the SMSF trustee is limited to rights relating to the asset acquired (or, if applicable, the replacement asset). For example, the lender can have the right to recover outstanding amounts where there is a default on the borrowing by repossessing or disposing of the asset being acquired under the arrangement, but cannot have the right to recover such amounts through recourse to the fund's other assets.\n\nThe Bare Trust Deed Trust Deed is a key document. Care is required to ensure there are no adverse GST, taxation or stamp duty consequences. The legal and beneficial interests in the property must be separated, so that an entity separate from the Superannuation Fund Trustee holds the legal title, while the Superannuation Fund Trustee holds the beneficial interest.\n\nA case that deals with the limited powers of a bare trustee to deal with trust assets is Caterpillar Financial Australia Ltd v Ovens Nominees Pty Ltd [2011] FCA 677 which considered the law relating to the duties, powers and rights of a bare trustee in a winding up. This case is an important reminder to practitioners of some of the difficulties that can arise where an insolvent company owns property as a corporate trustee. Care should be taken to carefully review the trust deed on appointment to ensure the trustee retains its powers to sell trust assets.\n\n"}
{"id": "26021507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26021507", "title": "Bibb County School District vs. Wickman", "text": "Bibb County School District vs. Wickman\n\nBibb County School District vs. Wickman (2005) was a case heard before the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama. It ruled that a policy permitting student-led, student-initiated prayer at football games held at private venues and initiated by personnel of said venue does not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. Oral arguments were heard April 6, 2005. The court announced its decision on June 27, holding the policy constitutional in a 6-3 decision. School prayer is a controversial topic in American jurisprudence.\n\nThe Bibb County School District (BCSD), a school district in Alabama between Birmingham and Montgomery, allowed students to offer Christian prayers over the public address system at home football games held off of school property at a private venue. These prayers were given by a student selected by the director of the private venue.\n\nA pair of former students and their father—a Mormon, objected to this practice and filed a suit on the basis of a violation of the Establishment Clause. These are the Wickmans.\n\nDuring the litigation, the school held its policy: as long as they held football games off of school district property and off of property controlled by the county, they would allow students to pray before sporting events if the director(s) of the venue holding the event invited a student to pray over the stadium's public announcement system.\n\nThe district court allowed this policy, though it required that they be nonsectarian and non-proselytizing. The judge's main authority was \"Thomas v. Dothan SD\" (Dothan SD being another Alabama school district), which allows certain types of school prayers at sporting events. The district court's final judgment was in December 2003.\n\nThe Wickmans appealed to the Alabama Supreme Court. The Wickmans appealed, wanting the football prayers found unconstitutional altogether, citing Santa Fe Independent School Dist. v. Doe.\n\nThe Wickmans chose not to appeal to the United States Supreme Court after the decision was rendered, since Bibb County took possession of all sporting venues within the county, effectively eliminating their right to pray prior to school events. This did not, however, nullify the court's decision.\n\nThe Court held that the policy allowing the student-led prayer at the football games was constitutional and in no way violated the establishment clause of the first amendment to the constitution. The majority opinion, written by Chief Justice Cobb depended on Santa Fe Independent School Dist. v. Doe, 530 U.S. 290 and Lee v. Weisman, 505 U.S. 577. It held that pre-game prayers delivered on school property, at school-sponsored events, over the school's public address system, by a speaker representing the student body, under the supervision of school faculty, and pursuant to a school policy that explicitly and implicitly encourages public prayer are public speech, but that the school, and by definition the district and state were not fully represented when the school was invited to play off school property, using facilities not owned, operated, or related to the school faculty, and therefore the state was not responsible for prayers made by students, if said student was invited by the operation staffs of the private facility being used.\n\nA dissenting opinion was written by Justice Smith, joined by Justices Murdoch and Shaw. Her dissent stated that the majority opinion \"failed to recognize the many precedents set throughout the years, both on the state and national level, especially the Santa Fe ISD case, which explicitly outlaw prayer sponsored by public institutions in any way\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4455409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4455409", "title": "Burying in Woollen Acts", "text": "Burying in Woollen Acts\n\nThe Burying in Woollen Acts 1666-80 were Acts of the Parliament of England (citation \"18 & 19 Cha. II c. 4\" (1666), \"30 Cha. II c. 3\" (1678) and \"32 Cha. II c. 1\" (1680) ) which required the dead, except plague victims and the destitute, to be buried in pure English woollen shrouds to the exclusion of any foreign textiles.\n\nIt was a requirement that an affidavit be sworn in front of a Justice of the Peace (usually by a relative of the deceased), confirming burial in wool, with the punishment of a £5 fee for noncompliance. Burial entries in parish registers were marked with the word \"affidavit\" or its equivalent to confirm that affidavit had been sworn; it would be marked \"naked\" for those too poor to afford the woollen shroud. \n\nThe legislation was in force until 1814, but was generally ignored after 1770. The 1666 Act was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1863.\n\nBurial records so annotated can be a source of genealogical information, providing evidence of economic status and relationships that may be otherwise unavailable or ambiguous.\n"}
{"id": "6712972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6712972", "title": "California Voter Bill of Rights", "text": "California Voter Bill of Rights\n\nThe California Voter Bill of Rights is an adaptation of the United States Voting Rights Act passed in 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "3784254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3784254", "title": "Chaïm Perelman", "text": "Chaïm Perelman\n\nChaïm Perelman (20 May 1912, Warsaw – 22 January 1984, Brussels) was a Polish-born philosopher of law, who studied, taught, and lived most of his life in Brussels. He was among the most important argumentation theorists of the twentieth century. His chief work is the \"Traité de l'argumentation – la nouvelle rhétorique\" (1958), with Lucie Olbrechts-Tyteca, translated into English as \"The New Rhetoric: A Treatise on Argumentation\", by John Wilkinson and Purcell Weaver (1969).\n\nPerelman and his family emigrated from Warsaw to Antwerp, Belgium in 1925. He began his undergraduate studies at the Université Libre de Bruxelles, where he would remain for the duration of his career. He earned a doctorate in law in 1934, and after completing a dissertation on the philosopher and mathematician Gottlob Frege, earned a second doctorate in 1938. In the same year, Perelman was appointed lecturer at Brussels in the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters. By the end of the war, he became the youngest full professor in the history of that university.\n\nPerelman’s initial research in law and philosophy was carried out under the aegis of logical positivism. In 1944, he completed an empiricist study of justice and concluded that since applications of the law always involve value judgments – and since values cannot be subjected to the rigors of logic – the foundations of justice must be arbitrary. Upon completing the study, Perelman considered its conclusion untenable since value judgments form an integral part of all practical reasoning and decision making, and to claim that these judgments lack any logical basis was to deny the rational foundations of philosophy, law, politics, and ethics.\n\nAs a result of his empiricist study of justice, Perelman rejected positivism in favour of regressive philosophies that provided a rationale for value judgments. In 1948, he met Lucie Olbrechts-Tyteca, who had also attended the Université Libre de Bruxelles, and began collaborating on a project that would eventually establish ancient rhetoric as the foundation for a logic of value judgments.\n\nIn 1958, Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca published their study of informal reasoning as \"Traité de l'argumentation: la nouvelle rhétorique\". Undertaken in the spirit of Fregian observation and synthesis, the work analyzed a wide range of actual arguments from the realms of philosophy, law, politics, ethics, and journalism. The result was a theory of argumentation that was grounded in considerations of value and audience and that outlined points of departure and general techniques for argument.\n\nIn 1962, Perelman was invited by Henry W. Johnstone and Robert Oliver to take a position at Pennsylvania State University as a distinguished visiting professor. The collaboration between Johnstone and Perelman in particular, which had begun prior to the publication of \"la nouvelle rhétorique\", proved fruitful. Johnstone created the influential journal \"Philosophy and Rhetoric\", and Perelman became established in the United States as a leading argumentation theorist.\n\nThroughout the next two decades, Perelman continued publishing works related to or derived from the \"New rhetoric\". He also made significant contributions to studies in law as director of the National Center for Research in Logic at the Université Libre de Bruxelles, and through continued publications on legal philosophy and argument. In 1973 he was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto II.\n\nIn recognition of his academic and civic accomplishments, Perelman was appointed to the baronage by the Belgian legislature in December 1983. In 1962 Chaïm Perelman was awarded the Francqui Prize for Human Sciences. He died at his home in Brussels from a heart attack on 22 January 1985.\n\nAfter completing , Perelman rejected the usefulness of logical positivism beyond its applications to pure science. In published five years later, he further outlined the limits of first philosophies or metaphysics. Because these approaches relied on a series of self-evident and mutually supporting axioms, any perceived error would disable the entire philosophy and its claims to reveal universal and absolute truths. Prevalent alternatives, especially the relativism of Jean-Paul Sartre, were also untenable for Perelman since the absolutes of metaphysics were merely replaced in these approaches by absolute skepticism.\n\nDuring his research with Olbrechts-Tyteca, Perelman would develop a philosophy that avoided the absolutes of both positivism and radical relativism. After encountering an excerpt of Brunetto Latini in the appendix of Jean Paulhan’s , Perelman began researching ancient Greco-Latin approaches to argumentation. He found that while a specific logic of value judgments had never been established, an approach to the problem was apparent in the works of Aristotle. In the \"Posterior analytics\", Aristotle establishes the principles of demonstration or analytics, which rely on the accepted premises and necessary conclusions of the syllogism. In the \"Topics\" and elsewhere, Aristotle opposes the demonstrative approach to dialectics, or rhetorical reasoning, which relies on premises that are acceptable in a given situation and are thus contingent. With Aristotle's distinctions, Perelman was able to perceive the contradiction of first philosophies: while claiming to reveal universal and absolute truths according to demonstrative methods, philosophy was in reality more concerned with persuading specific audiences to accept its claims. For Perelman, then, a viable philosophy – capable of establishing aspects of being and inducing reasonable action – must be constructed according to probabilities and must be able to withstand impositions of value and other contingencies stemming from its reception by particular audiences. Perelman’s approach, which he termed regressive philosophy, thus sought to incorporate socially constructed truths and to remain amenable to changes should those truths be modified.\n\nWhile rhetoric and argumentation provided the core of Perelman’s philosophy, his regressive approach also shaped his treatise on non-formal argumentation. In the conclusion of the , Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca state that in opposition to the absolutes common in philosophy, their project acknowledges that \"men and groups of men adhere to opinions of all sorts with a variable intensity\" and that \"these beliefs are not always self-evident, and they rarely deal with clear and distinct ideas.\" To uncover the logic that governs these beliefs and ideas, Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca rely on a regressive philosophy that accounts for the variability of particular situations and particular values. Perelman would employ this same approach in future developments of the New Rhetoric and in subsequent writings on law and justice.\n\nPerelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca began research on the logic of non-formal arguments in 1948. Following Frege’s comprehensive approach to the study of mathematics, they collected a wide range of writing from academic, professional, religious, and popular realms to devise and apply their theory. After encountering Latini and \"rediscovering\" the Greco-Latin rhetorical tradition, both the project and its philosophical basis took a definitive shape. Perelman hypothesized that the rationale governing non-formal argument could be derived from the principles of rhetorical theory and from considerations of audience and values in particular. These considerations in turn affected the specific structure of arguments, including the bases of agreement and the availability of specific appeals. Perelman’s analysis also produced an overview of the various techniques apparent across the diverse group of arguments collected in the course of research.\n\nThe following discussion of the \"New rhetoric\" is organized according to the three sections of the book, and covers the major concepts contained in each.\n\nThe \"New Rhetoric\" is founded on the idea that \"since argumentation aims at securing the adherence of those to whom it is addressed, it is, in its entirety, relative to the audience to be influenced\" (1969, p. 19). Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca rely in particular for their theory of argumentation on the twin concepts of universal and particular audiences: while every argument is directed to a specific individual or group, the orator decides what information and what approaches will achieve the greatest adherence according to an ideal audience. This ideal, Perelman explains, can be embodied, for example, \"in God, in all reasonable and competent men, in the man deliberating or in an elite\" (2001, p. 1393). Like particular audiences, then, the universal audience is never fixed or absolute but depends on the orator, the content and goals of the argument, and the particular audience to whom the argument is addressed. These considerations determine what information constitutes \"facts\" and \"reasonableness\" and thus help to determine the universal audience that, in turn, shapes the orator's approach.\n\nThe adherence of an audience is also determined by the orator's use of values, a further key concept of the \"New Rhetoric\". Perelman's treatment of value and his view of epideictic rhetoric sets his approach apart from that of the ancients and of Aristotle in particular. Aristotle's division of rhetoric into three genres – forensic, deliberative, and epideictic – is largely motivated by the judgments required for each: forensic or legal arguments require verdicts on past action, deliberative or political rhetoric seeks judgment on future action, and epideictic or ceremonial rhetoric concerns values associated with praise or blame and seeks no specific decisions. For Aristotle, the epideictic genre was of limited importance in the civic realm since it did not concern facts or policies. Perelman, in contrast, believes not only that epideictic rhetoric warrants more attention, but that the values normally limited to that genre are in fact central to all argumentation. \"Epideictic oratory, \" Perelman argues, \"has significance and importance for argumentation because it strengthens the disposition toward action by increasing adherence to the values it lauds\" (1969, p. 50). These values, moreover, are central to the persuasiveness of arguments in all rhetorical genres since the orator always attempts to \"establish a sense of communion centered around particular values recognized by the audience\" (1969, p. 51).\n\nAll argumentation, according to Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca, must proceed from a point of agreement; contentious matters in particular cannot be introduced until sufficient agreement on prior or related issues has already been established. The bases of agreement are divided into two categories: the first deals with facts, truths, and presumptions; the second with values, hierarchies, and \"loci of the preferable\".\n\nBoth facts and truths are normally established prior to argument; these are aspects of reality that would be agreed to, for instance, by the universal audience as conceived by the orator. Neither facts nor truths provide opportunity for dispute; as Perelman explains, \"if we presuppose the coherence of reality and of our truths taken as a whole, there cannot be any conflict between facts and truths on which we would be called to make a decision\" (2001, p. 1394). Presumptions, like facts and truths, need not be defended. Should the argument require opposing presumptions, however, the orator may overturn previous opinion by proving an opposite case.\n\nValues, both concrete and abstract, may also constitute starting points, although none should be treated as universal. Establishing and reinforcing common values is necessary, according to Perelman, because they influence action and determine acceptable behaviour (2001, p. 1394). Values, moreover, are normally arranged in hierarchies that can also serve as starting points for argument. An audience will value both justice and utility, for example, but an argument may require a determination of preference between the two. Like values, hierarchies can be abstract or concrete; they may also be homogeneous, in the case of degrees, or heterogeneous, in the example of honesty and truthfulness. Both values and hierarchies can be justified by the final point of agreement, which Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca term \"loci of the preferable\". These \"loci\" or commonplaces are derived from the third book of Aristotle's \"Topics\" and allow agreement according to the determination of which, between two \"loci\", is more preferred. Thus, an argument may begin from the determination that an intrinsic quality, such as health, is preferred over a contingent quality, such as beauty.\n\nThe final aspect of argument starting points discussed in the \"New rhetoric\" is the creation of \"presence. \" From the body of ideas that are agreed upon by a given audience, the orator may choose to emphasize or lend presence to certain elements while deemphasizing others. As Perelman explains, \"things present, things near to us in space and time, act directly on our sensibility, \" yet if things distant – from the past or future – are more relevant to the argument, they may be lent presence through specific rhetorical figures, such as \"hypotyposis\" or \"anaphora\" (2001, p. 1395). All points of agreement, moreover, may be distinguished as primary or secondary according to the purpose of the argument and the composition of the particular audience. This is accomplished, Perelman notes, by linguistic categories that allow the orator to mount arguments \"under the guise of a descriptive narrative\" (ibid).\n\nBecause non-formal argument is concerned with the adherence of an audience – rather than the mere demonstration of propositions proper to formal logic – the orator must ensure that the audience adheres to each successive element of an argument. Perelman outlines two ways the orator may achieve this acceptance or adherence: the first involves associations according to quasi-logical arguments, appeals to reality, and arguments that establish the real; the second approach responds to incompatible opinions through the dissociation of concepts.\n\nQuasi-logical arguments, Perelman explains, are \"similar to the formal structures of logic and mathematics\" (2001, p. 1396). Definition is a common quasi-logical approach that is used not only for establishing the meaning of a term but also for emphasizing certain features of an object for persuasive purposes. Other quasi-logical arguments include relations of division, arguments of reciprocity, and arguments of probability. While these techniques appear to share the qualities of formal demonstrations, Perelman notes that for all quasi-logical approaches, \"complementary, nonformal hypotheses are necessary to render the argument compelling\" (2001, p. 1398).\n\nThe remaining associative techniques involve appealing to reality and establishing the real. Arguments of the former category can be further divided into those conveying succession and those dealing with coexistence. Relations of succession include causes and effects, such as the consequences of a particular action, or means and ends, such as the projected outcome of an event or process. Relations of coexistence, on the other hand, associate a person or essence to a specific act, and include arguments from authority. Like appeals to the real, arguments that establish the structure of reality can be divided into two categories: arguments from example or model, and arguments by analogy. The former rely on generalizations derived from a single situation, in the case of example, or on the conformation of a single situation to an accepted practice or ethos, in the case of models. Appeals to the real that rely on analogy are common and, according to Perelman, are \"typical to Plato, Plotinus, and all those who establish hierarchies within reality\" (2001, p. 1399). These appeals establish the relation between two terms by noting their similarity to another, more familiar set of terms; for example, \"truth is to Socrates what gold is to a miser. \" Metaphor, another common aspect of argumentation, is a form of condensed analogy.\n\nWhen orators seek to reconcile incompatible opinions, they may gain adherence by a dissociation of concepts. The final technique discussed by Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca is a common approach in metaphysics that opposes appearances to reality. As Perelman explains, reality is normally perceived \"through appearances that are taken as signs referring to it. When, however, appearances are incompatible – an oar in water looks broken but feels straight to the touch – we must admit...that some appearances are illusory and may lead us to error regarding the real\" (2001, p. 1400). This recognition in turn fosters a conception of reality by which appearances may be judged; those aspects conforming to the real are considered valuable, while those not consistent with reality are dismissed as illusive. The dissociation of ideas can be extended to any realm where the tenets of an argument are incompatible with accepted opinion; \"real democracy, \" for instance, can be opposed to \"apparent democracy, or formal or nominal democracy, or quasi-democracy\" (ibid. ). In the process of this opposition, adherence to \"real democracy\" is achieved not on the basis of its merit as an idea, but rather through the devaluation of opposing terms.\n\nThe most common criticisms of the \"New Rhetoric\" focus on Perelman's concept of a universal audience. Prominent criticisms by Jürgen Habermas, Henry Johnstone Jr., and John Ray challenge the practicality and applicability of Perelman’s concept. In response, Perelman and Crosswhite both offer support for the concept of the universal audience. The work has been translated, in whole or in part, into nine languages and has been described variously as \"groundbreaking,\" by J. Robert Cox, a \"bombshell,\" by Michael Leff, and as \"one of the most influential modern formulations of rhetorical theory,\" by Brian Vickers. The \"New Rhetoric\" and its later developments have been foundational for argumentation theory in the last thirty years, and Perelman's work has influenced studies ranging from justice and reason to social psychology and political geography.\n\nCrosswhite discusses Jürgen Habermas’s theory of truth in relation to the concept of a universal audience. However, when he tries to distinguish between rational consensus and de facto consensus (or truth from agreement), there is limited relevance to the \"ideal speech situation.\" Because the universal audience requires there to be equality for all speakers, ideas, and audience members, it is not a realistic representation of a situation that would ever occur and thus the idea of a universal audience is not practical.\n\nPerelman’s theory of a universal audience includes reasonable people of all time, thus removing the argument or speech out of the context of history. Perelman’s theory requires the speaker to understand universal values and ideals throughout history. Henry Johnstone Jr., argues the philosophical and cultural changes over time are sometimes so great, that arguments cannot be universally effective and understood. Simply due to the differences in circumstance, it is impossible for a universal audience to exist. People of a certain time and place, the particular audience, are the limits of persuasive capacities.\n\nJohn Ray critiques the concept of a universal audience as irrelevant because it lacks structure and content. Ray claims a universal audience is disorganized because it is different for each speaker based on his or her purpose. While the construction of a universal audience does require setting aside \"all the particular, local features of the audience and consider only those features of the audience one considers universal,\" the concept of a universal audience will vary based on the motives, goals, and experiences of the speaker. When abiding by the universal audience, it is difficult to construct a persuasive argument, as the speaker must use general and vague language to be cognizant of all the audience-members values and ideals. Ray is concerned that when forced to follow such constraints, the speaker will not only fail to be persuasive, but will also fail to remain valid in specific situations.\nJames Crosswhite addresses concerns about the validity of universal claims in formal argument. One way to construct this universal audience is to discover its universal character. The speaker must set aside any conflicting ideas or values, but because this process of creating a universal audience is specific to the circumstances, it can yield different and conflicting ideals as universal. Perelman makes the distinction that when creating a universal audience you should only eliminate conflicting concepts and values that are relevant. Additionally, because the idea of a universal audience itself is empirical, the speaker forms the imagined universal audience based on past experiences and pre-existing notions of how the universal audience should be defined.\nWhile the concept of the universal audience has been criticized for trying to create complete agreement, Perelman claims its main purpose is to steer the speakers towards reasonableness. And in regards to validity of arguments formed around the universal audience, the creation of a universal audience is a tool and constraint for the speaker. It is meant to be a moral standard when addressing any audience, but will still allow for persuasion and specificity.\n\nThe German philosopher Hans-Georg Gadamer cites Perelman's work on rhetoric as an influence on the hermeneutical philosophy he presented in \"Truth and Method\".\n\nHe married Fela Perelman in 1935.\n\n\n\"Selected French bibliography\"\n\nArticles\n\nBooks\n\nWith Lucie Olbrechts-Tyteca\n\n\"Selected English bibliography\"\n\nArticles\n\nBooks\n\nWith Lucie Olbrechts-Tyteca\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46179885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46179885", "title": "Christopher J. Schneider", "text": "Christopher J. Schneider\n\nChristopher J. Schneider (born April 16, 1979) is an American sociologist and associate professor of sociology at Brandon University.\n\nSchneider received his B.A. \"summa cum laude\" in 2002 from Northeastern Illinois University, with a major in sociology and a minor in criminal justice. Schneider was selected as the NEIU 2002 spring commencement speaker He received an M.A. in Sociology with a concentration in Criminology in 2004 from Northern Illinois University Schneider continued his graduate studies in Justice Studies at Arizona State University. In 2008, he graduated from ASU with a Doctoral Degree in Justice Studies.\n\nWhile studying toward his M.A. he was an instructor at NIU. From 2004-2008 Schneider was a part-time instructor and a teaching assistant at ASU. After receiving his PhD in Justice Studies in 2008, Schneider began his career as an assistant professor of sociology at the University of British Columbia, Okanagan campus where he taught for six years. In 2014, Schneider relocated to Wilfrid Laurier University where he was granted tenure and promoted to the position of Associate Professor of Law & Society. He relocated to Brandon University in 2015 where he is presently an associate professor of sociology\n\nIn November 2016, Schneider held the Public Visiting Scholar position in the Department of Criminology at WLU, a position offered to a scholar with \"innovative research with public appeal\". He has also been invited to hold the Endowed Chair of Criminology and Criminal Justice position at St. Thomas University in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada. The Endowed Chair at STU is \"offered to a scholar with a well-established record of research.\" \n\nSchneider is a member of various editorial boards, e.g., including the Editorial Board of \"The Annual Review of Interdisciplinary Justice Research\" (IJR), Canada's only interdisciplinary journal of justice studies. Schneider is a member of the Brandon, MB John Howard Society Board of Directors\n\nSchneider's research is qualitative and focuses on how developments in media and technology contribute to changes in social interaction and social control. \nHis book \"Policing and Social Media: Social Control in an Era of New Media\" illustrates the process by which new information technology—namely, social media—and related changes in communication formats have affected the public face of policing and police work in Canada. \"Policing and Social Media\" has been well-received by an array of critics that include academics, police practitioners, journalists, and activists. \"Policing and Social Media\" reached No. 1 on Amazon's list of Hot New Releases in Canadian politics.\n\nAccording to a review in the academic journal \"Symbolic Interaction\", \"\"Policing and Social Media\" is essential reading for scholars of media and crime.\" A review in the \"Police Journal: Theory, Practice and Principles\" said \"This book is timely and of major importance given the increasingly central role social media now occupies in global policing, governance and accountability discourses. Alexandre Turgeon writes in the \"American Review of Canadian Studies\": \"In light of the many high-profile and recent police shootings in the United States, and the way that they were framed on YouTube and other social media sites, this book is a significant contribution on the field of policing and information\".\n\nThe book has also been profiled extensively in news media. A review in Canadian news magazine Maclean's called \"Policing and Social Media\" \"surprisingly populist\". Community activist and freelance writer Tom Sandborn (in a review he wrote published in the Vancouver Sun), called the book \"important\" continuing \"Schneider has done a fine job with this study, and anyone in Canada who cares about policing, privacy, civil liberties and personal freedom should read it\"\n\nSchneider's work has focused on the impact of social media on crime related matters including vigilante justice and crowd sourced-policing efforts online. Much of this research has examined the role of social media in relation to the 2011 Vancouver Stanley Cup riot Some of this research is cited in \"Policing Canada in the 21st Century: New Policing for New Challenges\" a 2014 Council of Canadian Academies report that addresses the external and internal challenges facing Canada's police. Other related research has explored the impact of social media on policing and police work in Canada.\n\nSchneider's research has also focused on popular culture and social control. Some of this work has examined the relationships between media and popular culture including the framing and censorship of rap music and the use of mobile phone ringtones as individual ways to manage identity. Other work in the area of popular culture has explored celebrity news coverage and TMZ\n\nSchneider has written or collaborated on five books and has published dozens of academic journal articles, book chapters, and essays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185365", "title": "Cod Wars", "text": "Cod Wars\n\nThe Cod Wars (, \"the cod wars\", or \"Landhelgisstríðin\", \"the wars for the territorial waters\") were a series of confrontations between the United Kingdom and Iceland on fishing rights in the North Atlantic. Each of the disputes ended with an Icelandic victory. The Third Cod War concluded in 1976, with a highly favourable agreement for Iceland; the United Kingdom conceded to a Icelandic exclusive fishery zone after threats that Iceland would withdraw from NATO, which would have forfeited NATO's access to most of the GIUK gap, a critical anti-submarine warfare during the Cold War.\n\nAs a result, British fishing communities lost access to rich areas and were devastated, with thousands of jobs lost. Since 1982, a exclusive economic zone has been the United Nations standard.\n\nThe term \"cod war\" was coined by a British journalist in early September 1958. None of the Cod Wars met any of the common thresholds for a conventional war, and they may more accurately be described as militarised interstate disputes. There is only one confirmed death during the Cod Wars: an Icelandic engineer, who was accidentally killed in the Second Cod War. While he was repairing damage on the Icelandic gunboat \"Ægir\" after a collision with the British frigate \"Apollo\", they collided again, on 29 August 1973.\n\nSeveral explanations for the Cod Wars have been put forward. Recent studies have focused on the underlying economic, legal and strategic drivers for Iceland and the United Kingdom, as well as the domestic and international factors that contributed to the escalation of the dispute. Lessons drawn from the Cod Wars have been applied to international relations theory.\n\nFishermen from Britain began to fish in the international waters near Iceland in the 15th century. From the early 16th century onward, English sailors and fishermen were a major presence in the waters off Iceland. Some Icelandic historians view the history of Iceland's struggle for control of its maritime resources in ten episodes, or ten cod wars. The first episode was a dispute between Norway and England in 1415 to 1425 over England's trading with Iceland in violation of Norway's monopoly on the Icelandic trade. The dispute ended when the English arrested Eric of Pomerania's officials in Iceland, effectively restoring the Anglo-Icelandic trade. The agreement that was reached in 1976 concluded what in modern times is called the Third Cod War (the final and tenth Cod War in long-term history).\n\nWith the increases in range of fishing that were enabled by steam power in the late 19th century, boat owners and skippers felt pressure to exploit new grounds. Their large catches in Icelandic waters attracted more regular voyages across the North Atlantic. In 1893, the Danish government, which then governed Iceland and the Faroe Islands, claimed a fishing limit of around their shores. British trawler owners disputed the claim and continued to send their ships to the waters near Iceland. The British government did not recognise the Danish claim on the grounds that setting such a precedent would lead to similar claims by the nations around the North Sea, which would damage the British fishing industry.\n\nIn 1896, the United Kingdom made an agreement with Denmark for British vessels to use any Icelandic port for shelter if they stowed their gear and trawl nets. In return, British vessels were not to fish in Faxa Bay east of a line from Ílunýpa, a promontory near Keflavík to Þormóðssker (43.43° N, 22.30° W).\n\nWith many British trawlers being charged and fined by Danish gunboats for fishing illegally within the limit, which the British government refused to recognise, the British press began to enquire why the Danish action against British interests was allowed to continue without intervention by the Royal Navy. The British made a show of naval force (gunboat diplomacy) in 1896 and 1897.\n\nIn April 1899, the steam trawler \"Caspian\" was fishing off the Faroe Islands when a Danish gunboat tried to arrest her for allegedly fishing illegally inside the limits. The trawler refused to stop and was fired upon first with blank shells and then with live ammunition. Eventually, the trawler was caught, but before the skipper, Charles Henry Johnson, left his ship to go aboard the Danish gunboat, he ordered the mate to make a dash for it after he went on to the Danish ship. The \"Caspian\" set off at full speed. The gunboat fired several shots at the unarmed boat but could not catch up with the trawler, which returned, heavily damaged, to Grimsby, England. On board the Danish gunboat, the skipper of the \"Caspian\" was lashed to the mast. A court held at Thorshavn convicted him on several counts including illegal fishing and attempted assault, and he was jailed for 30 days.\n\nThe Anglo-Danish Territorial Waters Agreement of 1901, which set territorial limits, measured narrowly, for Iceland for 50 years.\n\nThe Icelandic fisheries grew in importance for the British fishing industry around the end of the 19th century. The reduction in fishing activity brought about by the hostilities of the First World War effectively ended the dispute for a time.\n\nWhile data is incomplete for the prewar period, one historian argues that the Icelandic fishing grounds were 'very important' to the British fishing industry as a whole. Data from 1919 to 1938 showed a significant increase in the British total catches in Icelandic waters. The British catches in Iceland were more than twice the combined catches of all other grounds of the British distant water fleet. Icelanders grew increasingly dismayed at the British presence.\n\nIn October 1949, Iceland initiated the two-year abrogation process of the agreement made between Denmark and the United Kingdom in 1901. The fishery limits to the north of Iceland were extended to . However, since the British trawling fleet did not use those ground, the northern extension was not a source of significant contention between the two states. Initially planning to extend the rest of its fishery limits by the end of the two-year abrogation period, Iceland chose to postpone its extension to wait for the outcome of the UK-Norway fisheries case in the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which was decided in December 1951.\n\nIcelanders were satisfied with the ICJ ruling, as they believed that Iceland's preferred extensions were similar to those afforded to Norway in the ICJ ruling. The UK and Iceland tried to negotiate a solution but were unable to reach agreement. The Icelandic government declared, on 19 March 1952, its intention to extend its fishery limits on 15 May 1952.\n\nIceland and the United Kingdom were involved in a dispute from May 1952 to November 1956 over Iceland's unilateral extension of its fishery limits from . Unlike in the Cod Wars, the Royal Navy was never sent into Icelandic waters. The British trawling industry, however, implemented costly sanctions on Iceland by imposing a landing ban on Icelandic fish in British ports. The landing ban was a major blow to the Icelandic fishing industry (the UK was Iceland's largest export market for fish) and caused consternation among Icelandic statesmen. The two sides decided to refer one part of the Icelandic extension to the ICJ in early 1953: the controversial Faxa Bay delimitation.\n\nCold War politics proved favourable for Iceland, as the Soviet Union, seeking influence in Iceland, stepped in to purchase Icelandic fish. The United States, fearing greater Soviet influence in Iceland, also did so and persuaded Spain and Italy to do likewise.\n\nSoviet and American involvement resulted in weakening the punitive effects of the British landing ban. Some scholars refer to the dispute of 1952 to 1956 as one of the Cod Wars, as the object of the dispute and its costs and risks were all similar to those in the other three Cod Wars.\n\nJust as the other Cod Wars, the dispute ended with Iceland achieving its aims, as the Icelandic fishery limits were recognized by the United Kingdom, following a decision by the Organisation of European Economic Co-operation in 1956.\n\nTwo years later, in 1958, the United Nations convened the first International Conference on the Law of the Sea, which was attended by 86 states. Several countries sought to extend the limits of their territorial waters to , but the conference did not reach any firm conclusions.\n\nThe First Cod War lasted from 1 September 1958 to 11 March 1961. It began as soon as a new Icelandic law came into force and expanded the Icelandic fishery zone from at midnight on 1 September 1958.\n\nAll members of NATO opposed the unilateral Icelandic extension. The British declared that their trawlers would fish under protection from their warships in three areas: out of the Westfjords, north of Horn and southeast of Iceland. In all, twenty British trawlers, four warships and a supply vessel were inside the newly declared zones. The deployment was expensive; in February 1960, Lord Carrington, the First Lord of the Admiralty, responsible for the Royal Navy, stated that the ships near Iceland had expended half a million pounds sterling worth of oil since the new year and that a total of 53 British warships had taken part in the operations. Against that, Iceland could deploy seven patrol vessels and a single PBY-6A Catalina flying boat.\n\nThe deployment of the Royal Navy to contested waters led to protests in Iceland. Demonstrations against the British embassy were met with taunts by the British ambassador, Andrew Gilchrist, as he played bagpipe music and military marches on his gramophone. Many incidents followed. The Icelanders were, however, at a disadvantage in patrolling the contested waters because of the size of the area and the limited number of patrol ships. According to one historian, 'only the flagship Thór could effectively arrest and, if necessary, tow a trawler to harbour'.\n\nOn 4 September ICGV \"Ægir\", an Icelandic patrol vessel, attempted to take a British trawler off the Westfjords but was thwarted when HMS \"Russell\" intervened, and the two vessels collided. On 6 October, V/s \"María Júlía\" fired three shots at the trawler \"Kingston Emerald\", forcing the trawler to escape to sea. On 12 November, V/s \"Þór\" encountered the trawler \"Hackness\", which had not stowed its nets legally. \"Hackness\" did not stop until \"Þór\" had fired two blanks and one live shell off its bow. Once again, HMS \"Russell\" came to the rescue, and its shipmaster ordered the Icelandic captain to leave the trawler alone, as it was not within the limit recognised by the British government. The captain of \"Þór\"', Eiríkur Kristófersson, said that he would not do so and ordered his men to approach the trawler with the gun manned. In response, the \"Russell\" threatened to sink the Icelandic boat if it fired a shot at the \"Hackness\". More British ships then arrived, and the \"Hackness\" retreated.\n\nIcelandic officials threatened to withdraw Iceland's membership of NATO and to expel US forces from Iceland unless a satisfactory conclusion could be reached to the dispute. Even the cabinet members who were pro-Western (proponents of NATO and the US Defence Agreement) were forced to resort to the threats, as that was Iceland's chief leverage, and it would have been political suicide not to use it. Thus, NATO engaged in formal and informal mediations to bring an end to the dispute.\n\nFollowing the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea between 1960 and 1961, the UK and Iceland came to a settlement in late February 1961, which stipulated Icelandic fishery limits but that Britain would have fishing rights in allocated zones and under certain seasons in the outer for three years. The Icelandic Althing approved the agreement on 11 March 1961.\n\nThe deal was very similar to one that Iceland had offered in the weeks and days leading up to its unilateral extension in 1958. As part of the agreement, it was stipulated that any future disagreement between Iceland and Britain in the matter of fishery zones would be sent to the International Court of Justice, in the Hague.\n\nThe Second Cod War between the United Kingdom and Iceland lasted from September 1972 until the signing of a temporary agreement, in November 1973.\n\nThe Icelandic government again extended its fishing limits, now to . It had two goals in extending the limits: (1) to conserve fish stocks and (2) to increase its share of total catches. The reasons that Iceland pursued 50 nmi fishery limits, rather than the 200 nmi limits that they had also considered, were that the most fruitful fishing grounds were within the 50 nmi and that patrolling a 200 nmi limit would have been more difficult.\n\nThe British contested the Icelandic extension with two goals in mind: (1) to achieve the greatest possible catch quota for British fishermen in the contested waters and (2) to prevent a \"de facto\" recognition of a unilateral extension of a fishery jurisdiction, which would set a precedent for other extensions.\n\nAll Western European states and the Warsaw Pact opposed Iceland's unilateral extension. African states declared support for Iceland's extension after a meeting in 1971 where the Icelandic prime minister argued that the Icelandic cause was a part of a broader battle against colonialism and imperialism.\n\nOn 1 September 1972, the enforcement of the law that expanded the Icelandic fishery limits to began. Numerous British and West German trawlers continued fishing within the new zone on the first day. The Icelandic leftist coalition then governing ignored the treaty that stipulated the involvement of the International Court of Justice. It said that it was not bound by agreements made by the previous centre-right government, with Lúdvik Jósepsson, the fisheries minister, stating that 'the basis for our independence is economic independence'. The next day, ICGV \"Ægir\" chased 16 trawlers, in waters east of the country, out of the 50 nmi zone. The Icelandic Coast Guard started to use net cutters to cut the trawling lines of non-Icelandic vessels fishing within the new exclusion zone.\n\nOn 5 September 1972, at 10:25, ICGV \"Ægir\", under Guðmundur Kjærnested's command, encountered an unmarked trawler fishing northeast of Hornbanki. The master of the black-hulled trawler refused to divulge the trawler's name and number and, after being warned to follow the Coast Guard's orders, played \"Rule, Britannia!\" over the radio. At 10:40, the net cutter was deployed into the water for the first time, and \"Ægir\" sailed along the trawler's port side. The fishermen tossed a thick nylon rope into the water as the patrol ship closed in, attempting to disable its propeller. After passing the trawler, \"Ægir\" veered to the trawler's starboard side. The net cutter, behind the patrol vessel, sliced one of the trawling wires. As ICGV \"Ægir\" came about to circle the unidentified trawler, its angry crew threw coal as well as waste and a large fire axe at the Coast Guard vessel. A considerable amount of swearing and shouting came through the radio, which resulted in the trawler being identified as \"Peter Scott\" (H103).\n\nOn 25 November 1972, a crewman on the German trawler \"Erlangen\" suffered a head injury as an Icelandic patrolship cut the trawler's trawling wire, which struck the crewman. On 18 January 1973, the nets of 18 trawlers were cut. That forced the British seamen to leave the Icelandic fishery zone unless they had the protection of the Royal Navy. The next day large, fast tugboats were sent to their defence, the first being the \"Statesman\". The British considered that to be insufficient and formed a special group to defend the trawlers.\n\nOn 23 January 1973, the volcano Eldfell on Heimaey erupted, forcing the Coast Guard to divert its attention to rescuing the inhabitants of the small island.\n\nOn 17 May 1973, the British trawlers left the Icelandic waters, only to return two days later when they were escorted by British frigates. The naval deployment was codenamed Operation Dewey. Hawker Siddeley Nimrod jets flew over the contested waters and notified British frigates and trawlers of the whereabouts of Icelandic patrolships. Icelandic statesmen were infuriated by the entry of the Royal Navy and considered to appeal to the UN Security Council or call for Article 5 of the NATO Charter to be implemented. According to the American ambassador at the time, Frederick Irving, Ólafur Jóhannesson demanded for the US to send jets to bomb the British frigates. There were major protests in Reykjavík on 24 May 1973. All the windows of the British embassy in Reykjavík were broken.\n\nThe Icelandic lighthouse tender V/s \"Árvakur\" collided with four British vessels on 1 June, and six days later ICGV \"Ægir\" collided with HMS \"Scylla\", when it was reconnoitring for icebergs off the Westfjords even though no trawlers were present.\n\nOn 29 August the Icelandic Coast Guard suffered the only fatality of the conflict, when ICGV \"Ægir\" collided with another British frigate. Halldór Hallfreðsson, an engineer on board the Icelandic vessel, died by electrocution from his welding equipment after sea water flooded the compartment in which he was making hull repairs.\n\nOn 16 September 1973, Joseph Luns, Secretary-General of NATO, arrived in Reykjavík to talk with Icelandic ministers, who had been pressed to leave NATO, as it had been of no help to Iceland in the conflict. Britain and Iceland were both NATO members. The Royal Navy made use of bases in Iceland during the Cold War to fulfill its primary NATO duty, guarding the Greenland-Iceland-UK gap.\n\nAfter a series of talks within NATO, British warships were recalled on 3 October. Trawlermen played \"Rule Britannia!\" over their radios, as they had done when the Royal Navy entered the waters. They also played \"The Party's Over\". An agreement was signed on 8 November to limit British fishing activities to certain areas inside the 50 nmi limit. The agreement, resolving the dispute, was approved by the Althing on 13 November 1973. The agreement was based on the premise that British trawlers would limit their annual catch to no more than 130,000 tons. The Icelanders were reportedly prepared to settle for 156,000 tons in July 1972 but had increased their demands by spring of 1973 and coffered 117,000 tons (the British demanded 145,000 tons in spring 1973). The agreement expired in November 1975, and the third \"Cod War\" began.\n\nThe Second Cod War threatened Iceland's membership in NATO and the US military presence in Iceland. It was the closest that Iceland has come to canceling its bilateral Defence Agreement with the US.\n\nIcelandic NATO membership and hosting of US military had considerable importance to Cold War strategy because of Iceland's location in the middle of the GIUK gap.\n\nAfter the entry of the Royal Navy into the contested waters, at any given time, four frigates and an assortment of tugboats would generally protect the British trawling fleet. Over the course of this Cod War, a total of 32 British frigates had entered the contested waters.\n\nOn 19 July 1974, more than nine months after the signing of the agreement, one of the largest wet fish stern trawlers in the British fleet, \"C.S. Forester\", which had been fishing inside the limit, was shelled and captured by the Icelandic gunboat V/s \"Þór\" after a pursuit. \"C. S. Forester\" was shelled with non-explosive ammunition after repeated warnings. The trawler was hit by at least two rounds, which damaged the engine room and a water tank. She was later boarded and towed to Iceland. Skipper Richard Taylor was condemned to 30 days of imprisonment and fined £5,000. He was released on bail after the owners paid £2,232. The trawler was also allowed to depart with a catch of 200 tons of fish. Also, her owners paid a total of £26,300 for the release of the ship.\n\nAt the third United Nations Conference of the Law on the Sea in 1975, several countries supported a limit to territorial waters. On 15 July 1975, the Icelandic government announced its intention to extend its fishery limits. The Third Cod War (November 1975 – June 1976) began after Iceland again extended its fishing limits, now to from its coast. The British government did not recognise the large increase to the exclusion zone and so an issue occurred with British fishermen and their activity in the disputed zone. The conflict, which was the most hard-fought of the Cod Wars, saw British fishing trawlers have their nets cut by the Icelandic Coast Guard, and there were several incidents of ramming by Icelandic ships and British trawlers, frigates and tugboats.\n\nOne of the most serious incidents occurred on 11 December 1975. As reported by Iceland, V/s \"Þór\", under the command of Helgi Hallvarðsson, was leaving port at Seyðisfjörður, where it had been minesweeping, when orders were received to investigate the presence of unidentified foreign vessels at the mouth of the fjord. The vessels were identified as three British ships: \"Lloydsman\", an oceangoing tug three times bigger than V/s \"Þór\"; \"Star Aquarius\", an oil rig supply vessel of British Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food; and her sister ship, \"Star Polaris\". They were sheltering from a force nine gale within Iceland's territorial waters. In the Icelandic account, when ordered to leave Icelandic territorial waters by the commander of \"Þór\", the three tugboats initially complied. However, around two nautical miles (4 km) from the coast, \"Star Aquarius\" allegedly veered to starboard and hit \"Þór\"s port side as the Coast Guards attempted to overtake her. Even as \"Þór\" increased speed, \"Lloydsman\" again collided with its port side. \"Þór\" had suffered considerable damage by these hits and so when \"Star Aquarius\" came about, a blank round was fired from \"Þór\". That did not deter \"Star Aquarius\", as it hit \"Þór\" a second time. Another shot was fired from \"Þór\" as a result, this time a live round that hit the bow of \"Star Aquarius\". Then, the tugboats retreated. V/s \"Þór\", which was close to sinking after the confrontation, sailed to Loðmundarfjörður for temporary repairs.\n\nThe British reports of the incident differ considerably and maintain that \"Þór\" attempted to board one of the tugboats, and as \"Þór\" broke away, \"Lloydsman\" surged forward to protect \"Star Aquarius\". Captain Albert MacKenzie of \"Star Aquarius\" said that \"Þór\" approached from the stern and hit the support vessel before it veered off and fired a shot from a range of about . Niels Sigurdsson, the Icelandic Ambassador in London, said that \"Þór\" had been firing in self-defence after it had been rammed by British vessels. Iceland consulted the UN Security Council over the incident, which declined to intervene.\n\nThe immediate Royal Navy response was to dispatch a large frigate force, which was already well on the way to Icelandic waters, before the Prime Minister, Harold Wilson, or the Foreign Secretary, Anthony Crosland, were informed. The Royal Navy saw the opportunity to demonstrate the capabilities of its older Type 12 and Type 81 frigates for sustained deployment in the area of the Denmark Strait, where they were expected to deter the passage of Soviet submarines while the Royal Navy was threatened by further serious defence and naval cuts by the Royal Navy's chief \"bête noire\", the Chancellor of Exchequer and former Minister of Defence, Denis Healey. The Royal Navy saw its strategic aim at the time to be as much as fighting Healey as the Soviet Navy. The Second and Third Cod Wars were necessary wars for the Royal Navy, like the Falklands Operation, six years later. To Crosland, also MP for the trawler port of Grimsby, the third war was a more serious threat to the Western Alliance than the Middle East was.\n\nAnother incident occurred in January 1976, when HMS \"Andromeda\" collided with \"Þór\", which sustained a hole in its hull; the hull of \"Andromeda\" was dented. The British Ministry of Defence said that the collision represented a \"deliberate attack\" on the British warship 'without regard for life'. The Icelandic Coast Guard, on the other hand insisted, that \"Andromeda\" had rammed \"Þór\" by \"overtaking the boat and then swiftly changing course'. After the incident and facing a growing number of ships enduring dockyard repairs, the Royal Navy ordered a 'more cautious approach' in dealing with 'the enemy cutting the trawlers' warps'.\n\nOn 19 February 1976, the British Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food announced that a fisherman from Grimsby had become the first British casualty of the Third Cod War, when a hawser hit and seriously injured him after Icelandic vessels cut a trawl. While a British parliamentary source reported in a 1993 debate that a British trawlerman was accidentally killed by a solid shot fired by an Icelandic patrol boat, this suggestion has not been corroborated by any historical sources.\n\nBritain deployed a total of 22 frigates and ordered the reactivation from reserve of the Type 41 frigate HMS \"Jaguar\" and Type 61 HMS \"Lincoln\", refitting them as specialist ramming craft with reinforced wooden bows. In addition to the frigates, the British also deployed a total of seven supply ships, nine tugboats and three support ships to protect its fishing trawlers, but only six to nine of the vessels were on deployment at any one time. The Royal Navy was prepared to accept serious damage to its Cold War frigate fleet, costing millions and disabling part of its North Atlantic capacity for more than a year. HMS \"Yarmouth\" had its bow torn off, HMS \"Diomede\" had a 40 ft gash ripped through its hull and HMS \"Eastbourne\" suffered such structural damage from ramming by Icelandic gunboats that it had to be reduced to a moored operational training frigate. Iceland deployed four patrol vessels (V/s \"Óðinn\", V/s \"Þór\", V/s \"Týr\", and V/s \"Ægir\") and two armed trawlers (V/s \"Baldur\" and V/s \"Ver\"). The Icelandic government tried to acquire US Asheville class gunboats and when it was denied by Henry Kissinger, it tried to acquire Soviet Mirka class frigates instead.\n\nA more serious turn of events came when Iceland threatened closure of the NATO base at Keflavík, which would have severely impaired NATO's ability to deny access to the Atlantic Ocean to the Soviet Union. As a result, the British government agreed to have its fishermen stay outside Iceland's exclusion zone without a specific agreement.\n\nOn the evening of 6 May 1976, after the outcome of the Third Cod War had already been decided, the V/s \"Týr\" was trying to cut the nets of the trawler \"Carlisle\" when Captain Gerald Plumer of HMS \"Falmouth\" ordered it rammed. \"Falmouth\" at the speed of more than 22 knots (41 km/h) rammed \"Týr\", almost capsizing her. \"Týr\" did not sink and managed to cut the nets of \"Carlisle\", and \"Falmouth\" rammed it again. \"Týr\" was heavily damaged and found herself propelled by only a single screw and pursued by the tug-boat \"Statesman\". In the dire situation, Captain Guðmundur Kjærnested gave orders to man the guns, in spite of the overwhelming superiority of firepower HMS \"Falmouth\" enjoyed, to deter any further ramming. The Third Cod War saw 55 ramming incidents altogether.\n\nIn NATO-mediated sessions, an agreement was reached between Iceland and the UK on 1 June 1976. The British were allowed to keep 24 trawlers within the 200 nmi and fish a total of 30,000 tons.\n\nWhile Iceland came closest to withdrawing from NATO and expelling US forces in the Second Cod War, Iceland actually took the most serious action in all of the Cod Wars in the Third Cod War by ending diplomatic relations with the United Kingdom on 19 February 1976. Although Icelandic government was firmly pro-Western, the government linked Iceland's NATO membership with the outcomes of the fishery dispute. If a favorable outcome could not be reached, Iceland implied that it would withdraw from NATO. However, the government never explicitly linked the US Defence Agreement to the outcome of the dispute.\n\nIceland achieved its overall aims. As a result, the already-declining British fisheries were hit hard by being excluded from their prime fishing grounds and the economies of the large northern fishing ports in the United Kingdom, such as Grimsby, Hull, and Fleetwood, were severely affected, with thousands of skilled fishermen and people in related trades being put out of work. The cost for repairing the damaged Royal Navy frigates was probably over £1 million.\n\nIn 2012, the British government offered a multimillion-pound compensation deal and apology to fishermen who lost their livelihoods in the 1970s. More than 35 years after the workers lost their jobs, the £1,000 compensation offered to 2,500 fisherman was criticised for being insufficient and excessively delayed.\n\nA 2016 review article finds that the underlying drivers behind the desire to extend fishery limits were economic and legal for Iceland, but they were economic and strategic for the United Kingdom. It, however, argues that \"these underlying causes account for the tensions but are not enough to explain why bargaining failure occurred\". After all, the outbreak of each Cod War was costly and risky for both sides.\n\nSeveral factors are mentioned to explain why bargaining failure occurred. The nature of nationalism and party competition for Iceland and pressure from the trawling industry for Britain are reasons that both sides took actions that were of noticeable risk to their broader security interests. Interdepartmental competition and unilateral behaviour by individual diplomats were also factors, with the British Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries influencing the British government's decision 'more than the Foreign Office'.\n\nA 2017 study argues that both a combination of powerful domestic pressures on statesmen to escalate and miscalculation by those statesmen contributed to the outbreak of the Cod Wars. The study argues that Iceland won each of the Cod Wars because Icelandic statesmen were too greatly constrained by domestic politics to offer compromises to the British, but British statesmen were not as constrained by public opinion at home.\n\nInternational relations scholars such as Robert Keohane, Joseph Nye, Hans Morgenthau, Henry Kissinger and Ned Lebow have written on the Cod Wars.\n\nThe 2016 review article finds that lessons from the Cod Wars have most commonly been applied to liberal and realist international relations theory and theories on asymmetric bargaining. It claims that the Cod Wars are widely seen as inconsistent with the precepts of the liberal peace, since democracy, trade and institutions are supposed to pacify interstate behavior. The Cod Wars are also held up as an example of the decreasing salience of hard power in international relations, with implications for realist theory which emphasizes the importance of hard power. Theorists on asymmetric bargaining have emphasized how Iceland, lacking structural power, can still have an issue power advantage, with its greater commitment to the cause.\n\nA 2017 study argues that the occurrence of the Cod Wars is inconsistent with liberal international relations theory, including the democratic peace thesis, as the \"supposedly pacifying factors of the liberal peace – democracy, trade and institutional ties – effectively made the disputes more contentious\".\n\nThe Cod Wars are often mentioned in Icelandic and British news reporting when either state is involved in a fishery dispute or when there are disputes of some sort between the two countries. The Cod Wars were extensively covered by media during the Icesave dispute between Iceland and the UK, and in preparation for the Iceland-England match at the round of 16 in Euro 2016.\n\nIn February 2017, the crews of two ships involved in the Cod Wars, the Hull trawler \"Arctic Corsair\" and the Icelandic patrolship \"Odinn\", exchanged bells in a gesture of goodwill and sign of friendship between the cities of Hull and Reykjavík. The event was part of a project by Hull Museums on the history between Iceland and the United Kingdom during and after the Cod Wars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13648171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13648171", "title": "Collaborative law", "text": "Collaborative law\n\nCollaborative law, also known as collaborative practice, divorce or family law, is a legal process enabling couples who have decided to separate or end their marriage to work with their lawyers and, on occasion, other family professionals in order to avoid the uncertain outcome of court and to achieve a settlement that best meets the specific needs of both parties and their children without the underlying threat of litigation. The process allows parties to have a fair settlement. The voluntary process is initiated when the couple signs a contract (a \"participation agreement\") binding each other to the process and disqualifying their respective lawyer's right to represent either one in any future family-related litigation.\n\nThe collaborative process can be used to facilitate a broad range of other family issues, including disputes between parents and the drawing up of pre and post-marital contracts. As the traditional method of drawing up pre-marital contracts is oppositional, many couples prefer to begin their married life with documents drawn up consensually and mutually.\n\nCollaborative law processes also have the added benefit of being cost efficient for the involved parties. As the necessary tasks in the collaborative model are assigned to specialist professionals without duplication of effort, cost savings are realized. These cost efficiencies, in addition to other potential benefits, have led parties in other contexts to explore the use of collaborative law to resolve disputes, including M&A transactions.\n\nThe history of the Collaborative Law process is disputed, except that it originated in the Midwestern United States. Although some credit Minnesota lawyer, Stu Webb alone, New Jersey divorce lawyer, Curtis J. Romanowski first introduced the concept in 1988 as \"Collaborative Dispute Resolution (CDR).\" At the time, Romanowski was based in Kansas City, Missouri, and was providing consulting services in Alternate Dispute Resolution to clients throughout the United States. Stu Webb's model of the process that he started calling \"Collaborative Law\" in 1990 was based upon the use of a \"disqualification agreement,\" where, in the event the collaborative process failed, both attorneys would have to recuse themselves from further case involvement. Webb's approach also involved the retention of joint experts where indicated.\n\nAlthough the name \"Collaborative Law\", or \"Collaborative Family Law\" in its present form, is believed to have originated circa 1988-1990, the ideas in the family law context, appear to have had a clear antecedent in the concept of \"Therapeutic Family Law\", as put forward by Canadian-born Chicago family lawyer and writer Nester C. Kohut in the 1960s, as set out in his book\"Therapeutic Family Law; a complete guide to marital reconciliation\" and his later \"Therapeutic Separation Agreements\", ideas that attracted favorable comment in several law journal articles. According to his writings, these are methods that he developed and implemented in his own Chicago family law practice.\n\nRomanowski, who had a background including organizational development and trial advocacy, introduced CDR as a team approach to dispute resolution. The approach also included a \"recusal pact,\" at least initially. The application was geared toward labor and domestic relations disputes. Shortly after introducing the model in 1988, he changed his terminology and began calling his concept \"Collaborative Law,\" owing primarily to the confusion the abbreviation \"CDR\" was causing with \"Complimentary Dispute Resolution.\"\n\nWebb has consistently defended the recusal pact as essential to the Collaborative Law model. Romanowski, on the other hand, rejected the idea of entering into a recusal pact ab initio, thereby signaling his break from what had grown to be the mainstream movement. In 1998, Romanowski introduced \"Progressive Divorce(R),\" which broke down his model into four incremental phases.\n\nAt the heart of the Progressive Divorce(R) model was the rejection of the recusal pact until later in the process, only when settlement is imminent. Another key feature is the sparing of ancillary settlement team personnel until such time as the process stage requires it, if at all, maintaining that entering into a recusal pact and establishing a full-blown settlement team are not to be undertaken lightly, and certainly not committed to in the early stages of the process. It is speculated that Romanowski's name has not been as quickly associated with the founding of Collaborative Law since, although he independently developed the concept at about the same time as Stu Webb, he quickly became a leading critic of the model he originally created, believing it to be cumbersome, deceptively costly and largely academic, if not inherently coercive.\n\nEver since its inception in 1988, the Collaborative Law movement has spread rapidly to most of the United States, Europe, Canada and Australia., More than 22,000 lawyers have been trained in Collaborative Law worldwide and more than 1,250 lawyers have completed their training in England and Wales where Collaborative Law was launched in 2003.\n\nThe growth of the collaborative process in England and Wales has been encouraged by both the judiciary and the family lawyers organisation, Resolution. In an address to London family lawyers in October 2009, the newly appointed Supreme Court Justice, Lord Kerr of Tonaghmore became the first member of the Supreme Court to publicly endorse Collaborative Law and called for its extension to other areas. Previously, in October 2008 the Hon. Mr Justice Coleridge, a High Court Judge of the Family Division, had promised that collaborative agreements would be fast tracked in the High Court of England and Wales. On 29 November 2011, speaking at a reception hosted by the group, Collaborative Family Law, Supreme Court Justice Lord Wilson of Culworth reaffirmed his commitment to Collaborative Law and other Family Dispute Resolution Services whilst criticising the Government's plans to cut legal aid, which he called a \"false economy\".\n\nThe primary global collaborative organisation is the International Academy of Collaborative Professionals (IACP), which was founded in the late 1990s by a group of northern California lawyers, psychotherapists, and financial planners. IACP has more than 5,000 members and there are more than 325 practice groups of collaborative practitioners worldwide. The IACP offers an opportunity for education and networking for its members as well provides a resource for research on collaborative divorce.\n\nThe American Bar Association (\"ABA\"), the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers, and the International Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers (\"IAML\") all have Collaborative Law committees.\n\nIACP is an interdisciplinary organisation whose members include lawyers, mental health professionals and financial specialists. National Collaborative organisations have been established in many jurisdictions,including Australia, Austria, Canada, the Czech Republic, England, France, Germany, Israel, Hong Kong, Kenya, New Zealand, Northern Ireland, the Republic of Ireland, Scotland, Switzerland, and Uganda, as well as the United States. There is an active on-line collaborative community on Be-fulfilled.org. \nIn England and Wales, Resolution, has assumed responsibility for the training and accreditation of all collaborative professionals. Almost one-third of all English family lawyers have now completed their collaborative training. In the Republic of Ireland regional collaborative law associations have been set up in cities such as Galway, Cork, and Dublin. In France the AFPDC was created in 2009 to develop and implement collaborative practice in France.\n\nA number of states in the United States have their own individual organizations for collaborative law practitioners, including Collaborative Practice California, the Collaborative Family Law Council of Florida, Collaborative Law Institute of Georgia, the Collaborative Law Institute of Illinois, the Collaborative Law Institute of Minnesota, the Collaborative Law Institute of North Carolina, the Collaborative Law Institute of Texas and the Massachusetts Collaborative Law Council, and the Washington DC Academy of Collaborative Professionals.\n\nFurther, most metropolitan areas, such as San Diego, Los Angeles, Tampa, Dallas, Raleigh, Cleveland, St. Louis and Chicago have local collaborative practice groups.\n\nIn the United States, the Uniform Collaborative Law Act was adopted in 2009 by the Uniform Law Commission, and thereby became available to the individual States to enact as law. In 2010, the Uniform Collaborative Law Act was amended to add several options and renamed the Uniform Collaborative Law Rules and Act. As of June 2013, the Uniform Collaborative Law Act was enacted into law in the states of Utah, Nevada, Texas, Hawaii, Ohio, the District of Columbia, and Washington State, and passed by the Alabama Legislature but awaiting the Governor's signature, and was pending enactment in several additional U.S. states. In Texas, Houston-based family lawyer Harry Tindall has been instrumental in securing passage of the UCLA by the Texas Legislature. On March 24, 2016, Florida Governor Rick Scott signed the Collaborative Law Process Act, Florida's version of the Uniform Collaborative Law Act, which creates a statutory privilege that makes confidential communications had during the collaborative process.\n\nThe Overview to the Act provides a comprehensive and reliable history of the emergence of collaborative law in the United States.\n\nIn some states, like Florida, which were waiting on the passage of the Uniform Collaborative Law Act, local judges had been teaming up with collaborative professionals and creating local rules and administrative orders endorsing and regulating collaborative law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4603792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4603792", "title": "Death flights", "text": "Death flights\n\nDeath flights () are a form of extrajudicial killing practised by military forces in possession of aircraft: victims are dropped to their death from airplanes or helicopters into oceans, large rivers or even mountains. Death flights have been carried out in a number of internal conflicts, including the 1957 Battle of Algiers and by the junta dictatorship during the Argentine 1974–1983 \"Dirty War\".\n\nDuring the Argentine Dirty War, from 1976 to 1983 an estimated 10,000 people disappeared, kidnapped clandestinely by groups acting for the dictatorship. Human rights groups in Argentina often cite a figure of 30,000 disappeared; Amnesty International estimates 20,000. Many were killed in death flights, a practice initiated by Admiral Luis María Mendía, usually after detention and torture. Typically they were drugged into a stupor, loaded into aircraft, stripped, and dropped into the Río de la Plata or the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nAccording to the testimony of Adolfo Scilingo, a former Argentine naval officer convicted in Spain in 2005 of crimes against humanity under the doctrine of universal jurisdiction, there were 180–200 death flights in the years 1977 and 1978; Scilingo confessed to participating in two such flights, with 13 and 17 people killed respectively. He estimated that the navy conducted the flights every Wednesday for two years, 1977 and 1978, and that 1,500 to 2,000 people were killed.\n\nVictims were sometimes made to dance for joy in celebration of the freedom that they were told awaited them. In an earlier interview, in 1996, Scilingo said, \"They were played lively music and made to dance for joy, because they were going to be transferred to the south. ... After that, they were told they had to be vaccinated due to the transfer, and they were injected with Pentothal. And shortly after, they became really drowsy, and from there we loaded them onto trucks and headed off for the airfield.\" Scilingo said that the Argentine Navy was \"still hiding what happened during the Dirty War\".\n\nIn May 2010, Spain extradited pilot Julio Alberto Poch to Argentina. Poch, born in 1952, had been arrested in Valencia, Spain, on September 23, 2009 and was wanted in Argentina for his alleged participation as a pilot on the death flights. At his trial in February 2013, Poch not only denied that he had participated, but claimed that all he knew about death flights was from what he had read.\n\nIn April 2015 further arrests were made. It was reported that flights had started even before 1976, and continued until 1983. An organised military structure was in place to carry out these flights, \"Batallón de Aviación del Ejército 601\" (Army Air Battalion 601), with a commander, sub-commander, chief of staff, and officers of five companies making up the unit. Soldiers who refused to take part, as well as others who acted as airfield guards and runway cleaners, testified that they had seen live people and corpses loaded onto aircraft; after taking off, the planes returned empty.\n\nOn 12 March 2016 Interpol, through the National Police of Colombia, arrested Juan Carlos Francisco Bossi in the city of Medellín. Also known as \"El doctor\", Bossi is credited for activating the death flights during the Dirty War and is wanted by the Argentine authorities for taking part in death flights and forced disappearance of over 30,000 people. After his arrest, Bossi confessed to the Colombian authorities of being responsible in the deaths of 6,000 individuals.\n\nA five-year trial (nicknamed \"the ESMA mega-trial\" or the \"Death Flights trial\") of 54 former Argentine officials accused of death flights and other crimes against humanity (\"lesa humanidad\") heard 830 witnesses and investigated the death of 789 victims. The trial reached a verdict on 29 November 2017. 29 defendants got life in prison; six others were acquitted; the rest got prison terms ranging from eight to 25 years.\n\nOregier Benavente, Pinochet's former personal helicopter pilot, has admitted that, many times, he threw prisoners into the ocean or into the high peaks of the Andes.\n\nFlights were also used to make bodies of already killed dissidents disappear. A testimony describes the following procedure: Corpses were put in gunny sacks, the sacks were attached to a piece of rail using wire, and a second gunny sack was put around both. The sacks were carried on a pickup truck to the helicopters that flew towards the open sea off the coast of the Valparaíso Region, where the bodies were thrown into the ocean. Osvaldo Romo confessed in a 1995 interview to have participated in death flights. Showing no remorse, he added, \"Now, would it not be better throwing bodies into a volcano?\"\n\nIn 2001, Chilean President Ricardo Lagos informed the nation that during Pinochet's rule, 120 civilians had been tossed from helicopters into \"the ocean, the lakes and the rivers of Chile\".\n\nDeath flights were used during the Algerian War by French paratroopers of the 10th Parachute Division under Jacques Massu during the Battle of Algiers. After it was discovered that the corpses sometimes resurfaced, the executioners began to attach concrete blocks to their victims' feet. These victims came to be known as \"Bigeard's shrimps\" (), after one of the paratrooper commanders, Marcel Bigeard. \nDuring the Malagasy Uprising of 1947, in Mananjary hundreds of Malagasy were killed, among them 18 women and a group of prisoners thrown from aircraft.\n\nDuring the Mobutu era, an unknown number of persons were extrajudicially executed by being dropped from helicopter into the Zaire River, the Kinsuka Rapids or Lake Kapolowe (in the Shaba region).\n\nScholars have compared the practicalities of the Argentine death flights to the US-led procedure of extraordinary rendition during the War on Terror.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59546", "title": "Dial-up Internet access", "text": "Dial-up Internet access\n\nDial-up Internet access is a form of Internet access that uses the facilities of the public switched telephone network (PSTN) to establish a connection to an Internet service provider (ISP) by dialing a telephone number on a conventional telephone line. The user's computer or router uses an attached modem to encode and decode information into and from audio frequency signals, respectively. \n\nIn 1979, Tom Truscott and Steve Bellovin, graduates for Duke University, created an early predecessor to dial-up Internet access called the USENET. The USENET was a UNIX based system that used a dial-up connection to transfer data through telephone modems. Dial-up Internet has been around since the 1980s via public providers such as NSFNET-linked universities and was first offered commercially in July 1992 by Sprint. Despite losing ground to broadband since the mid-2000s, dial-up is still used where other forms are not available or where the cost is too high, such as in some rural or remote areas.\n\nDial-up connections to the Internet require no infrastructure other than the telephone network and the modems and servers needed to make and answer the calls. Where telephone access is widely available, dial-up is often the only choice available for rural or remote areas, where broadband installations are not prevalent due to low population density and high infrastructure cost. Dial-up access may also be an alternative for users on limited budgets, as it is offered free by some ISPs, though broadband is increasingly available at lower prices in many countries due to market competition.\n\nDial-up requires time to establish a telephone connection (up to several seconds, depending on the location) and perform configuration for protocol synchronization before data transfers can take place. In locales with telephone connection charges, each connection incurs an incremental cost. If calls are time-metered, the duration of the connection incurs costs.\n\nDial-up access is a transient connection, because either the user, ISP or phone company terminates the connection. Internet service providers will often set a limit on connection durations to allow sharing of resources, and will disconnect the user—requiring reconnection and the costs and delays associated with it. Technically inclined users often find a way to disable the auto-disconnect program such that they can remain connected for more days than one.\n\nA 2008 Pew Research Center study stated that only 10% of US adults still used dial-up Internet access. The study found that the most common reason for retaining dial-up access was high broadband prices. Users cited lack of infrastructure as a reason less often than stating that they would never upgrade to broadband. That number had fallen to 6% by 2010, and to 3% by 2013.\n\nThe CRTC estimated that there were 336,000 Canadian dial-up users in 2010.\n\nBroadband internet access via cable, digital subscriber line, satellite and FTTx has replaced dial-up access in many parts of the world. Broadband connections typically offer speeds of 700 kbit/s or higher for two-thirds more than the price of dial-up on average. In addition broadband connections are always on, thus avoiding the need to connect and disconnect at the start and end of each session. Broadband does not require exclusive use of a phone line and so one can access the Internet and at the same time make and receive voice phone calls without having a second phone line.\n\nHowever, many rural areas still remain without high speed Internet despite the eagerness of potential customers. This can be attributed to population, location, or sometimes ISPs' lack of interest due to little chance of profitability and high costs to build the required infrastructure. Some dial-up ISPs have responded to the increased competition by lowering their rates and making dial-up an attractive option for those who merely want email access or basic web browsing.\n\nDial-up Internet access has undergone a precipitous fall in usage, and potentially approaches extinction as modern users turn towards broadband. In contrast to the year 2000 when about 34% of the U.S. population used dial-up, this dropped to 3% in 2013. Adding to the extinction of dial-up is many newer programs such as antivirus and major applications download their sizable updates automatically in the background when a connection is first made and this can greatly impact the available bandwidth available to other applications like browsers until all updates have completed which may take several minutes or longer. Since an \"always on\" broadband is the norm expected by most newer applications being developed, this automatic upload trend in the background is expected to continue to eat away at dial-up's available bandwidth to the detriment of dial-up users' applications. Many newer websites also now assume broadband speeds as the norm and when confronted with slower dial-up speeds may drop (timeout) these slower connections to free up communication resources. On websites that are designed to be more dial-up friendly, use of a reverse proxy prevents dial-ups from being dropped as often but can introduce long wait periods for dial-up users caused by the buffering used by a reverse proxy to bridge the different data rates.\n\nModern dial-up modems typically have a maximum theoretical transfer speed of 56 kbit/s (using the V.90 or V.92 protocol), although in most cases, 40–50 kbit/s is the norm. Factors such as phone line noise as well as the quality of the modem itself play a large part in determining connection speeds.\n\nSome connections may be as low as 20 kbit/s in extremely noisy environments, such as in a hotel room where the phone line is shared with many extensions, or in a rural area, many miles from the phone exchange. Other factors such as long loops, loading coils, pair gain, electric fences (usually in rural locations), and digital loop carriers can also slow connections to 20 kbit/s or lower.\nAnalog telephone lines are digitally switched and transported inside a Digital Signal 0 once reaching the telephone company's equipment. Digital Signal 0 is 64 kbit/s and reserves 8 kbit/s for signalling information; therefore a 56 kbit/s connection is the highest that will ever be possible with analog phone lines.\n\nDial-up connections usually have latency as high as 150 ms or even more; this is longer than for many forms of broadband, such as cable or DSL, but typically less than satellite connections. Longer latency can make video conferencing and online gaming difficult, if not impossible. An increasing amount of Internet content such as streaming media will not work at dial-up speeds.\n\nVideo games released from the mid-1990s to the mid-2000s that utilized internet access such as \"EverQuest\", \"Red Faction\", \"Warcraft 3\", \"Final Fantasy XI\", \"Phantasy Star Online\", \"Guild Wars\", \"Unreal Tournament\", \"\", \"Audition\", \"\", \"\" and \"Ragnarok Online\", etc., accommodated for 56k dial-up with limited data transfer between the game servers and user's personal computer. The first consoles to provide Internet connectivity, the Dreamcast and PlayStation 2, supported dial-up as well as broadband. The GameCube had an ability to use dial-up and broadband connections, but this was used in very few games and required a separate adapter. The original Xbox exclusively required a broadband connection. Many computer and video games released since the mid-2000s do not even include the option to use dial-up. However, there are exceptions to this, such as \"Vendetta Online\", which can still run on a dial-up modem.\n\nThe V.42, V.42bis and V.44 standards allow modems to accept uncompressed data at a rate faster than the line rate. These algorithms use data compression to achieve higher throughput.\n\nFor instance, a 53.3 kbit/s connection with V.44 can transmit up to 53.3 × 6 = 320 kbit/s if the offered data stream can be compressed that much. However, the compressibility of data tends to vary considerably, for example, due to the transfer of already-compressed files (ZIP files, JPEG images, MP3 audio, MPEG video). A modem might be sending compressed files at approximately 50 kbit/s, uncompressed files at 160 kbit/s, and pure text at 320 kbit/s, or any rate in this range.\n\nAs telephone-based internet lost popularity in the mid 2000s, some Internet service providers such as TurboUSA, Netscape, CdotFree, and NetZero started using data compression to increase the perceived speed. As an example, EarthLink advertises \"surf the Web up to 7x faster\" using a compression program that squeezes images, text/html, and SWF flash animations prior to transmission across the phone line.\n\nThe pre-compression operates much more efficiently than the on-the-fly compression of V.44 modems. Typically website text is compacted to 5% thus increasing effective throughput to approximately 1000 kbit/s, and JPEG/GIF/PNG images are lossy-compressed to 15–20% (increasing throughput up to 300 kbit/s).\n\nThe drawback of this approach is a loss in quality, where the graphics acquire compression artifacts taking on a blurry or colorless appearance; however the perceived speed is dramatically improved. (If desired the user may choose to view uncompressed images instead, but at a much slower load rate.) Since streaming music and video are already compressed at the source, they are typically passed by the ISP unaltered.\n\nNote that the values given are maximum values, and actual values may be slower under certain conditions (for example, noisy phone lines).\n"}
{"id": "13160155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13160155", "title": "Directive on the energy performance of buildings", "text": "Directive on the energy performance of buildings\n\nThe Energy Performance of Buildings Directive (EPBD) is the European Union's’s main legislative instrument aiming to promote the improvement of the energy performance of buildings within the Community. It was inspired by the Kyoto Protocol which commits the EU and all its parties by setting binding emission reduction targets.\n\nThe first version of the EPBD, directive 2002/91/EC, was approved on 16 December 2002 and entered into force on 4 January 2003. EU Member States (MS) had to comply with the Directive within three years of the inception date (4 January 2006), by bringing into force necessary laws, regulations and administrative provisions. In the case of lack of qualified and/or accredited experts, the directive allowed for a further extension in implementation by 4 January 2006.\n\nThe Directive required that the MS strengthen their building regulations and introduce energy performance certification of buildings. More specifically, it required member states to comply with Article 7 (Energy Performance Certificates), Article 8 (Inspection of boilers) and Article 9 (Inspection of air conditioning systems). \n\nDirective 2002/91/EC was later on replaced by the so-called \"EPBD recast\", which was approved on 19 May 2010 and entered into force on 18 June 2010. \n\nThis version of the EPBD (Directive 2010/31/EU) broadened its focus on Nearly Zero-energy buildings, cost optimal levels of minimum energy performance requirements as well as improved policies. \n\nAccording to the recast:\n\nOn 30 November 2016, the European Commission published the \"Clean Energy For All Europeans\", a package of measures boosting the clean energy transition in line with its commitment to cut CO2 emissions by at least 40% by 2030, modernise the economy and create conditions for sustainable jobs and growth. The package included a whole set of legislative proposals, e.g.:\n\nThe proposal for a revised directive on the EPBD (COM/2016/0765) puts energy efficiency first and supports cost-effective building renovation. \n\nThe EU Council agreed its position on the proposal on 26 June 2017.\n\nThe proposal will update the EPBD through:\n\nIn particular the proposal:\n\nOn 11 October 2017, the European Parliament's Committee on Industry, Research and Energy (ITRE) voted positively on a draft report on the revised EPBD. The Committee \"\"approved rules to channel the focus towards energy-efficiency and cost-effectiveness of building renovations in the EU, updating the EPBD as part of the \"Clean Energy for All Europeans\"\" \"package\"\". \n\nBendt Bendtsen, member of ITRE and rapporteur of the EPBD review dossier said: \"It is vital that Member States show a clear commitment and take concrete actions in their long-term planning. This includes facilitating access to financial tools, showing investors that energy efficiency renovations are prioritised, and enabling public authorities to invest in well-performing buildings\".\n\nThe Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety of the European Parliament (ENVI), also provided its opinion (voted on 7 September 2017) to ITRE's report introducing an \"obligation to ensure that energy performance upgrades also contribute to a healthy indoor environment\". In August 2017, during his earlier interview for the REHVA journal, ITRE's rapporteur also supported that \"Indoor climate and health is a priority\".\n\nThe European Commission has launched practical support initiatives with the objective to help and support EU countries with the implementation of the EPBD.\n\nThe Concerted Action EPBD (CA EPBD) was launched in 2005 under the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme to address the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive (EPBD), with the objective to promote dialogue and exchange of knowledge and best practices between all 28 Member States and Norway for reducing energy use in buildings.\n\nThe first CA EPBD was launched in 2005 and closed in June 2007 followed by a second phase and a third phase from 2011 to 2015. The current CA EPBD (CA EPBD IV), a joint initiative between the EU Member States and the European Commission, runs since October 2015 to March 2018 with the aim to transpose and implement the EPBD recast. \n\nThe EPBD Buildings Platform was launched by the European Commission in the framework of the Intelligent Energy – Europe, 2003–2006 Programme, as the central resource of information on the EPBD. The Platform comprises databases with publications, events, standards and software tools. Interested organisations or individuals could submit events and publications to the databases. A high number of information papers (fact sheets) were also produced, with the aim to inform a wide range of people of the status of work in a specific area. The platform also offered a helpdesk with lists of frequently asked questions and the possibility to ask individual questions.\n\nThis initiative was completed in the end of 2008, and a new one, 'BUILD UP' was launched in 2009.\n\nAs a continuation of its support to the Member States in implementing the EPBD, the European Commission launched the BUILD UP initiative in 2009 . The initiative has been receiving funding under the framework of the Intelligent Energy Europe (IEE) Programme. The first BUILD UP (BUILD UP I) was launched in 2009 and closed in 2011 when BUILD UP II followed in 2012 and ran until 2014. BUILD UP III was running from January 2015 till December 2017. BUILD UP IV started early 2018.\n\nThe BUILD UP web portal aims to increase awareness and foster the market transformation towards Nearly Zero-Energy Buildings, catalysing and releasing Europe's collective intelligence for an effective implementation of energy saving measures in buildings, by connecting building professionals, including competent authorities. \n\nThe portal includes databases of publications, news, events, software tools & blog posts. Since the start of BUILD UP II in 2009 the portal introduced added value content items namely as overview articles (allowing for users to read / download them on demand) and free participation webinars, providing an effective learning resource. \n\nThe platform also incorporates the \"BUILD UP Skills\" webpage, an initiative launched in 2011 under the IEE programme to assist with the training and further education of craftsmen, on-site workers and systems installers of the building sector. BUILD UP hosts all BUILD UP Skills related information (EU Exchange Meetings, Technical Working Groups (TWGs), National pages and country factsheets, news, events and previous newsletters) under its separate section \"Skills\".\n\nThe EU's Intelligent Energy Europe (IEE) Programme was launched in 2003; the first IEE Programme (IEE I) closed in 2006, and was followed by the second IEE Programme (IEE II) from 2007 to 2013. Most parts of the IEE programme were run by the Executive Agency for SMEs, EASME -formerly known as the Executive Agency for Competitiveness and Innovation (EACI)- on behalf of the European Commission. The Programme \"supported projects which sought to overcome non-technical barriers to the uptake, implementation and replication of innovative sustainable energy solutions\" .From 2007 to 2013, the IEE II Programme allocated €72m (16% of the entire IEE II funding) to 63 building-related projects (including CA EPBD II & III), revealing the strong support for enabling EPBD implementation. The range of topics was broad, covering the fields of deep renovation, Nearly Zero-Energy Buildings, Energy Performance Certificates, renewable energy and the exemplary role of public buildings. Since the Programme's completion, the EU's Horizon 2020 Framework Programme has been funding these type of activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12233489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12233489", "title": "Dog fighting in the United States", "text": "Dog fighting in the United States\n\nDog fighting in the United States is an activity in which fights between two game dogs are staged as a form of entertainment and gambling. Such activity has existed since the early 19th century in the United States and was gradually prohibited in all states. It continues as an underground activity in both rural and urban locations.\n\nIn the late 20th century, police and animal control law enforcement task forces of primarily local and state authorities were formed in many parts of the country to combat dog fighting rings to combat serious animal welfare violations with links to organized crime and social problems. In 2007, the U.S. Congress passed a Federal law against interstate dog fighting activities, providing for felony-level penalties including multi-year prison sentences and large fines for each offense; passage of this law was followed by the involvement of the Inspector General's Office of the U.S. Department of Agriculture in ongoing investigations around the country.\n\nIn April 2007, the illegal activity received widespread attention after evidence surfaced suggesting professional football player Michael Vick had a dog fighting ring operating on his property. The case resulted in guilty pleas by several individuals and to a single felony count for Vick, who received a 21-month federal sentence.\n\nAccording to a study by the Michigan State University College of Law published in 2005, in the United States, dog fighting was once completely legal and was sanctioned and promoted during the colonial period (17th century through 1776) and continuing through the Victorian era in the late 19th century. The early 19th century saw the development in England of the Staffordshire Bull Terrier, first imported into the United States ca. 1817. Organized dog fighting became a part of American culture, and was promoted by the United Kennel Club. As the activity grew in popularity, so too did opposition to it. By the early 20th century the United Kennel Club dropped its support and by the 1960s most states had made it illegal. It was not until 1976 that it was outlawed in all states and even then, enforcement was generally lax.\nBy the late 20th century, as dog fighting became more popular in the poor areas of major U.S. cities, research and investigations revealed strong links with connected with street gangs and social ills, enforcement efforts increased.\n\nDespite legality issues, dogs are still commonly used for fighting purposes all across the continent. The American Pit Bull Terrier is the most popular breed used for fighting, but foreign breeds, such as the Dogo Argentino (used widely in South America), and to a lesser extent, the Presa Canario are also gaining popularity. The Dogo Argentino is now often seen in dog fight circuits in areas of the United States where the American Pit Bull Terrier (APBT) has been banned. In Miami-Dade County, Florida, where the APBT, American Staffordshire Terrier, and the Staffordshire Bull Terrier (or any other dog that substantially conforms to any of these breeds' characteristics) is banned, the Dogo Argentino has become the main fighting dog of choice, being used at both organized and street level dogfighting.\n\nIn the 21st century, dog fighting has become an objectionable and unlawful activity in most places broad categories, and each have motivated constituencies in many areas.\n\nDog fighting is often considered one of the most serious forms of animal abuse, not only for the violence that the dogs endure during and after the fights, but because they often suffer their entire lives. At least one major study alleges that the prevailing mind set among dog fighters is that, the more the dog suffers, the tougher he will become, and the better fighter he will therefore be. This position and the resulting treatment afforded the dogs stand in stark contrast with prevailing public values regarding the treatment of dogs in many civilized societies.\n\nIn addition to the controversial treatment a dog receives when he has potential as a fighter, according to a filing in U.S. District Court in Richmond by Federal investigators in Virginia, which was obtained under the Freedom of Information Act and published by the \"Baltimore Sun\" on July 6, 2007, a losing dog or one whose potential is considered unacceptable faces \"being put to death by drowning, strangulation, hanging, gun shot, electrocution or some other method\".\n\nDuring the furor arising around the Bad Newz Kennels investigation in Virginia in 2007 and revelations of extreme brutality there, even such diverse notables as hip-hop mogul Russell Simmons and the Reverend Al Sharpton joined with People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) in calling for strong stands against animal cruelty, jointly stating:\n\nIn addition to the fate which awaits fighters or even dogs likely to become fighters, often \"bait\" animals are used to test a dog's fighting instinct. With the use of \"Adoption Wanted\" or \"Good Home Needed\" posters to track their \"bait\" which is used in the training for these \"fighters\". The \"bait\" is mauled or killed in the process. Often \"bait\" animals are stolen pets, as officials with the Sheriff's Department in Pima County, Arizona say they were shocked to discover a few years ago, according to a story by \"National Geographic News\". According to news reports compiled by the National Humane Society, the snouts of bait dogs are wrapped with duct tape to prevent them from injuring dogs being trained for fighting. Some bait animals have been recovered with their teeth ground down to the gums to render them helpless against fighting dogs. Other animals, such as cats and rabbits are also reported to be used as \"bait\" for fighting dogs. Experts have said small dogs, kittens, and rabbits are more at risk of being stolen for bait than larger animals.\n\n\"National Geographic\" noted that there are no statistics on how many pets are taken and used as bait by dog fighting rings each year. Patricia Wagner, head of the National Illegal Animal Fighting Task Force for the Humane Society of the United States, offered the statement \"I think every state has a problem with it, whether they know it or not.\"\n\nAfter a life of training as a fighting dog, if a dog does not suffer its death while in such service, it is often euthanized. In Richmond, Virginia, when a dog fighter was sentenced in June 2007, it was revealed in court that over a dozen of his dogs had to be euthanized, either because of serious illness, injury or malnutrition, or because their training as fighting dogs made them too dangerous for adoption. Until 2006, the man had kept 16 pit bulls in the backyard of his house, confined with heavy chains used for automobile towing. Experts say chaining the animals is a dogfighting technique for building strength. When an animal control officer arrived in response to a complaint from a neighbor that one of the dogs had died, he found the dead dog in a trash can. The others had no food, no clean water and no adequate shelter. Jody Jones, program manager of Richmond Animal Care and Control, said in court that the case produced more dogs euthanized than any other case she knows of from her 15-year career in animal control.\n\nFollowing the seizure of a large number of dogs in an April 2007 dog fighting case in Mississippi, Tara High, executive director of the Humane Society of South Mississippi said \"The reality is that they've been used for entertainment. It's quite tragic for those of us that are kind of left to deal with it and the reality that these animals aren't going to be able to be rehabilitated,\" she said. Ms. High compared the animals to \"a loaded weapon. And not something we feel very comfortable letting out into the community.\"\n\nFor many years, even after it was outlawed, dog fighting was considered an isolated animal welfare issue, and as such was ignored, denied, or disregarded by law enforcement agencies. However, it has now been established that the dog fighting culture is often intimately connected to other criminal activity, with dog fighters frequently involved in organized crime, racketeering, drug distribution, or gangs, and dog fighting events often facilitating gambling and drug trafficking.\n\nAccording to the aforementioned Michigan State study,\nDog fighting is unlawful in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, as well as Guam, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Before the Federal law was passed, New York already had issued felony penalties up to four years to individuals fighting any types of animals, but some other levels of participation were only misdemeanor offenses. The state of New York considers attending an animal fight to be merely a violation, which ultimately leads to a fine. States surrounding New York like New Jersey and Connecticut passed a bill, stated that attendance at an animal fight is indeed a felony charge. Due to a loophole it is legal in 49 out of 50 states to possess dogs for fighting. The Animal Fighting Spectator Prohibition Act closed the loophole that allowed people to knowingly attend dogfighting events.\n\nIn all states, it is against the law (and often a felony) even to attend a dog fighting event, regardless of direct participation. According to authorities, dog fighting is increasingly practiced by gangs, and is linked to other unlawful activities, such as illegal gambling. On February 7, 2014 President Obama signed the Farm Bill which contained the U.S. H.R. 366/S. 666—Animal Fighting Spectator Prohibition Act. \"The final bill includes a provision making it a federal crime to attend or bring a child under the age of 16 to an animal fighting event[.]\" \"The Animal Fighting Spectator Prohibition Act would make it a federal offense to knowingly attend an organized animal fight and would impose additional penalties for bringing children to animal fights. Violators would face up to one year in prison for attending a fight, and up to three years in prison for bringing a minor to a fight.\" \n\nEven though it is illegal, dog fighting still occurs across the globe. To combat dog fighting and curb ownership of \"dangerous dogs,\" Breed Specific Legislation (BSL) has been passed in some countries, as well as in some local and regional jurisdictions. However, opponents argue that BSL affects responsible pet owners more than those who keep dogs for fighting purposes. Even though Breed Specific Legislation (BSL) is to keep tough dogs out of some states, many people have had problems with it and have started Petitions and held events to get rid of it.\n\nIn May 2007, a new Federal law went into effect making interstate dog fighting activities felonious and providing for imprisonment and imposition of large fines. The Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act, a new Federal law sponsored by US Senators Arlen Specter (D-PA.), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA.), and John Ensign (R-NV.), was enacted by the U.S. Congress earlier in 2007 and signed by President George W. Bush on May 3, making organizing a dog fight a felony. The law provides a penalty of up to three years of imprisonment and up to a $250,000 fine for each offense of interstate or foreign transport of animals for fighting purposes. Using the provisions of the new law, which took effect immediately, the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is pursuing cases in a number of locations around the country with considerable support from humane societies and local police departments.\n\nThe United States Humane Society estimates that more than 40,000 people across the country buy and sell fighting dogs and are involved in dogfighting activities. But authorities say those in dogfighting circles also are involved in a number of other crimes, including narcotics trafficking, illegal gambling and murder.\n\nIn August 2006, a suspected dog fighter in Texas bled to death after he was shot by intruders who apparently intended to torture him into revealing where he had hidden $100,000 wagered in a high-stakes dog match.\n\nThe \"Chicago Sun-Times\" reported that an analysis during a study by the College of Law at Michigan State University found that, in more than two dozen raids on dogfights, in virtually every instance police also seized illegal narcotics and weapons. Police seized $250,000 in cash during another 2004 raid in Covington, Georgia. \"Law enforcement is realizing it's a real community problem, intertwined with other crimes such as drugs and gambling,\" John Goodwin, an official with the Humane Society stated in an interview for the Norfolk \"Virginian-Pilot\" newspaper published in June 2007.\n\nMany communities in widespread areas across the United States are aggressively targeting dog fighting by coordinating local and regional dog fighting task forces. \"It's clear that when you have dogfighting, drugs and gambling and other criminal subcultures follow,\" according to Mark Plowden, a spokesman for the South Carolina Attorney General's Office, which in 2004 created a dogfighting task force. In Chicago, Illinois, a special police unit is devoted to investigating cases of abuse due to the connection between dog fighting and other gang crimes. In 2005, the police in Los Angeles, California formed an Animal Cruelty Task Force, leading to prosecutions of gang members there for animal abuse.\n\nAmong those linked to dog fighting is Doug Atkins was an American football defensive end who played for the Cleveland Browns, Chicago Bears, and New Orleans Saints in the National Football League (NFL) was a enthusatic participator in dog fighting, LeShon Johnson, former NFL running back, received a five-year deferred sentence in 2005 after officials seized 200 dogs during a raid of his dog fighting operation that led to 20 people being convicted in Oklahoma. Former National Basketball Association forward Qyntel Woods, pleaded guilty to animal abuse in 2005 at his home in Portland, Oregon. Former Dallas Cowboys lineman Nate Newton was arrested at a dogfight in Texas, although charges were later dropped.\n\nCurrently, NFL quarterback Michael Vick is linked to property in southeastern Virginia where authorities believe a multi-state dog fighting operation was based. In an interview with WAVY-TV, Portsmouth, Virginia, Washington Redskins running back Clinton Portis and a teammate, offensive tackle Chris Samuels, defended Vick. Portis said that if Vick is charged and convicted of dog fighting, \"then you're putting him behind bars for no reason. I don't know if he was fighting dogs or not, but it's his property. It's his dog. If that's what he wants to do, do it.\" Those comments were sharply criticized by NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell. The Redskins and Portis himself later apologized, stating that his controversial remarks about dog fighting were insensitive and that he now realizes he \"shouldn't have made the comments.\" He added, \"At that time I had no idea the love people have for animals, and I didn't consider it when I made those comments.\"\nNew York Animal Control Officer Kleinfelder says, \"For pro athletes, it's not about the money... Instead of boxers just beating up on each other, they want to see it go to the death, and with dogs they can let it go that far. To them, dogs are expendable.\"\n\nRhonda Evans is a sociologist and associate professor in the department of criminal justice at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette who has published four academic articles on dog fighting. She stated in a story published by the \"Palm Beach Post\" that she had found that owners of high-dollar fighting dogs spanned all walks of life and social classes, with a common link of \"a machismo mentality.\" Evans said \"For them, tough dogs are a symbol of manhood... and by winning, the dogs build up their owners' ego. They see it as a valid, legitimate sport that is no worse than boxing or football.\"\n\nRap and other urban music also seem to glorify dog fighting. Jay-Z shows dogs being prepared for a fight in the uncensored version of his music video, \"99 Problems\". A powerful-looking pit bull is on the cover of a CD by rapper DMX that is titled \"Grand Champ\". \"Grand Champ\" is said to be a reference to a dog that has won five dogfights.\n\nMadison Avenue advertising firms have capitalized on the same theme. When Nike was criticized about an ad featuring a growling pit bull and Rottweiler about to face off, the company denied the ad encourages dog fighting. The representative went on to state, however, \"People have to understand the youth culture we cater to. Our market is the urban, edgy, hip-hop culture.\"\n\nInternational Boxing Federation Champion Steve Cunningham: \"Dogs are truly Man's best friend. Yet some people take advantage of their loyalty by forcing them into dog fighting. It's disgusting and a heinous thing to do. It must be stopped. So join me in Knocking Out Dog Fighting.\"\n\nMixed Martial Arts Champion Tito Ortiz: \"Animal abuse happens every day in the form of dog fighting. It's cruel, inhumane, and it needs to be stopped. Show your strength and join me, Tito Ortiz, The Huntington Beach Bad Boy, in Knocking Out Dog Fighting.\"\n\nMixed Martial Arts Champion Andrei Arlovski: \"The pit bull has a long history in America. In the early 1900s the U.S. proudly used pit bulls on WWI posters to symbolize qualities that make up America - friendly, courageous, hard working and worthy of respect. I chose my name because I admire the breed for the same reasons. When I hear about pit bulls being used in dog fighting, it makes me angry. I have a choice to step into the cage to fight, but these dogs have no choice. Dog fighting is morally wrong and inhumane. In my opinion it's torture. Please join me in Knocking Out Dog Fighting.\"\n\nMixed Martial Arts Champion Cung Le: \"Dog fighting is cruel and inhumane and those who engage in it are losers. Show your strength and join me in Knocking Out Dog Fighting.\"\n\nMixed Martial Arts Champion Josh Thomson: \"Torturing or abusing animals is not cool nor is it a sign of strength. Real fighters stand up for what is right to protect those less able to do so. Show your strength and join me in Knocking Out Dog Fighting.\"\n\nMixed Martial Arts Champion Rob McCullough: \"I choose to fight, but a lot of dogs don't get that choice. Knock Out Dog Fighting...cuz dog fighting is not cool.\"\n\nIn recent times, a combination of animal rights groups and law enforcement agencies have drawn new attention to dog fighting and related criminal activities in the United States. A story in the New York \"Daily News\" published on June 10, 2007, stated \"dog fighting is a multi-million-dollar industry that is part of an underground subculture that holds its events in secret locations. It is extremely difficult for authorities to prove who has dogs for fighting purposes.\" A few weeks later, in Buffalo, New York, police and animal control officers at the City of Buffalo Animal Shelter rescued 15 pit bulls believed to be part of dogfighting activities during a two-week period. Authorities found pit bulls — dead and alive — as well as \"dogfighting kits\", which include harnesses, muzzles, pre-fight training guides, stacks of breeding papers, and even videos on dogfighting. \"We have been back to the same house three different times, and each time we pull out more and more dogs,\" said Animal Control Officer Andrew Kleinfelder. \"Even when someone is arrested, a normal pit bull fighting ring has at least 30 people involved. Someone keeps the fights going.\"\n\nRecently, longer sentences have resulted in some dog fighting-related cases. In South Carolina, David Tant, breeder of fighting dogs, is serving a 30-year sentence, among the stiffest ever imposed for the crime. Tant, 63, formerly of the Charleston area, pleaded guilty in November 2004 to more than 40 counts of illegally breeding fighting dogs, and one assault count connected to a surveyor who was wounded by a booby trap after he wandered onto Tant’s property in southern Charleston County. The surveyor was showered by an explosion of birdshot, injuring him slightly. The device was described as a \"directional mine\" meant to ward off intruders. \"Fat Bill\" Reynolds of Henry County, Virginia near Martinsville, publisher of \"American Gamedog Times\", a dog fighting magazine with an Internet website, was convicted in 2001 of transmitting images of fighting dogs across state lines and sentenced to 30 months in prison.\n\nIn March 2007, a combined Federal, state and local law enforcement team disrupted a large dog fighting network in Dayton, Ohio which was operating in Ohio, Kentucky, and Michigan. The investigation of the operation based in Montgomery County, Ohio had lasted a year. More than two dozen arrests were made and more than 60 dogs were seized. In May, 7 persons in Ohio submitted guilty pleas to state charges. Sentencing was pending at the time of a USDA news release in June 2007.\n\nOn April 24, authorities in Pass Christian, Mississippi raided a large dog fighting training compound owned by Maxwell Landry. According to several news stories on local television station WLOX, 17 persons were arrested and fighting dogs from Louisiana, crack cocaine and several other illicit drugs were found at the scene and confiscated. 44 pit bulls were seized. Landry once lived in Chalmette, Louisiana. After the area was damaged as a result of Hurricane Katrina in 2005, he moved to the Harrison County, Mississippi site, located about north of Interstate 10. Federal agents with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) discovered the dogs and the training compound during aerial surveillance relating to an investigation of drug trafficking.\n\nMembers of the Louisiana Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals came to help take care of the dogs. Property owner Landry was one of 14 people named in a Federal drug trafficking indictment involving activity between Mississippi, Louisiana and South Carolina. He faces to 43 counts of illegal dog fighting in Harrison County.\n\nJohn Wesley Black and Constance Jean Courtney could spend a minimum of one year in prison per illegal dog fighting charge, and are linked to two dog fighting allegations. Courtney was employed as a veterinarian's assistant. According to Harrison County Prosecutor Herman Cox, Landry has confessed to investigators that he made about $5,000 a month fighting his dogs against other dogs.\n\nOn April 25, 2007, an investigation began in Virginia after evidence of a dog fighting ring turned up during a narcotics search of a home and property owned by Michael Vick, a professional football player with the Atlanta Falcons of the NFL and a dog breeder. The property is located in southeastern Surry County a few miles northwest of the Isle of Wight County town of Smithfield. The original search began following several narcotics arrests of 26-year-old Davon T. Boddie, Vick's cousin and cook, who had given authorities the address of Vick's property at 1915 Moonlight Road, Surry, Virginia as his home address when he was arrested.\n\nThe investigation eventually involved local, state and Federal authorities. In late April, Vick told \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" \"I'm never at the house…I left the house with my family…They just haven't been doing the right thing…It's unfortunate I have to take the heat behind it. If I'm not there, I don't know what's going on.\"\n\nOn July 2, agents of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) filed court documents describing a five-year operation of an interstate dog fighting ring which called itself \"Bad Newz Kennels\" and had been based at Vick's property. No one was named individually in the July 2 court papers. WAVY-TV (Portsmouth, Virginia) posted a copy of one of the Federal court document from July 2, and has made it available online.\n\nOn July 17, Vick and three men described as his employees were indicted by a Federal grand jury for \"conspiracy to travel in interstate commerce in aid of unlawful activities and to sponsor a dog in animal fighting venture\". They faced $350,000 in fines and six years in prison if convicted of the Federal felony and misdemeanor charges.\n\nDetails in the indictments describing extreme acts of brutality against losing and under-performing dogs included executions by electrocution, hanging, drowning, shooting, and blunt force resulted in widespread public protests and calls for Vick's removal from NFL play pending resolution by a diverse spectrum of notable persons and public officials. On July 23, Commissioner Roger Goodell suspended him for an indefinite period pending investigation of possible violations of the league's Personal Conduct Policy. Atlanta Falcons team owner Arthur Blank stated that Vick should give up thoughts of playing until the case is resolved.\n\nAn arraignment and detention hearing was held on July 26 in U.S. District Court in Richmond. A trial date was set for November 26, and all four defendants were released without bond, but under the direct supervision of the court and under certain conditions. Federal prosecutors stated they would file a superseded indictment in August, which could have included additional charges and/or defendants. According to the Code of Virginia at the time, various violations of the Virginia laws involving dog fighting and cruelty to companion animals were considered class 6 felony crimes, each carrying a fine and 1 to 5 years in prison per offense. Over fifty dogs were seized, in addition to carcasses recovered during several searches of Vick's property.\n\nOn August 24, Vick plead guilty. He joined three others who had also plead guilty earlier to similar charges. The four faced up to five years in prison, fines of up to $250,000 and restitution. Each received sentences ranging from 60 days to 23 months.\n\nIn June 2007, a circuit court judge in Richmond, Virginia imposed a four-year prison sentence and $20,000 in fines on 40-year-old Stacey A. Miller, an Army veteran and convicted dog fighter. The \"Richmond Times-Dispatch\" reported that Miller was convicted in January by a jury of felony dogfighting, two counts of felony animal cruelty, a dozen counts of misdemeanor animal cruelty and two counts of possessing steroids. The jury recommended the four-year sentence and $20,000 in fines that the judge imposed. Miller also was ordered to pay Richmond Animal Care and Control $26,205.29 in restitution for the cost of caring for the 15 American pit bull terriers that were seized from him in February 2006, 12 of which had to be euthanized.\n\nOn July 13, 2007, police in a suburb of Chicago, Illinois rescued 37 fighting dogs from a heavily insulated and ventilated old chicken coop behind a house in the village of South Holland. At a news conference, Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart stated that it was \"the largest seizure of fighting dogs in state history.\"\n\nAccording to the \"Chicago Tribune\", an investigation began in May after police were informed that fighting dogs were being bred and raised at the home. Two workers for an animal shelter said that they had tipped off police. Officials close to the investigation confirmed their role. Neighbors told the news media that they had also called police to complain about barking from the barn and what was described as \"a stench\" by several. One neighbor said that he had called police several months ago after seeing a dog chained in the yard on a hot day without water. Another neighbor who lives across the street told reporters that he began seeing police in unmarked cars watching the home several weeks earlier, and one investigator had interviewed him about a week before the raid. The \"Tribune\" reported that the neighbor said that he told the investigator \"...the place was like a gas station, people coming and going constantly at night...I thought maybe he was dealing drugs.\"\n\nExecuting a warrant, a team formed by the Cook County sheriff's police special operations unit, Cook County animal control, and the South Holland Police Department entered the property and the soundproofed barn, seizing the dogs and evidence. They also found a boa constrictor snake and a substance suspected of being crack cocaine inside of the home, according to a WLS-TV (Chicago) news report.\n\nThe \"Chicago Sun-Times\" reported that the site had \"all the makings of a sophisticated and professional dog fighting operation.\" It was noted that treadmills and weights were nearby for building strength, while a female dog was kept in a separate room where breeding was done. Drugs used to make them stronger and fight harder were also found. One of the dogs, larger than the pit bulls and described as \"urine-soaked\" with its hair falling out, was thought to be a \"bait dog\" used in training others.\n\nWBBM radio news reported that the dogs seized in the raid ranged from weeks-old puppies to older dogs, some of whom suffered from physical injuries. Officers wore industrial masks Friday as they rescued the dogs, which were kept in pet transport carriers in the barn and positioned in a way that restricted sunlight. Several of the carriers had bite marks around their openings. Dart described the conditions inside the barn as horrible. \"It's very difficult to breathe inside,\" he said. \"The smell is overwhelming, and the conditions are deplorable.\"\n\nSheriff Dart said it was clear that the 29-year-old homeowner was an active ringleader on the dog-fighting circuit, breeding fighting dogs while renting out others for matches and raking in hundreds of dollars each time. Kevin Taylor was known to authorities. He has two prior convictions related to dog fighting, including cruelty to animals. He was convicted On June 15, 2007 in Livingston County after being arrested for attending dog fights near Pontiac in September 2005. According to news reports, a Livingston County jury convicted Taylor on a Class C misdemeanor charge. He paid a fine of $1,275 and spent six days in jail, a total that counts his initial arrest and subsequent arrests on bench warrants after he failed to show for court dates.\n\nOn July 14, Taylor was charged with 37 misdemeanor counts of cruelty to animals, a felony count of possession of a controlled substance, a felony count of dog-fighting and two other misdemeanor charges, one count each of possession of dogs by a felon and owning sport fighting dogs. Sheriff Dart said that although Taylor is thought to have bred and trained the dogs to sell or rent there, evidence did not indicate that any dogfights took place at the South Holland location. On July 16, Cook County Circuit Judge Camille Willis set Taylor's bond at $100,000.\n\nOn July 19, 2007, U.S. Senator Robert Byrd, 89, of West Virginia, a well-known dog lover, gave a passionate speech in the U.S. Congress about the practice of dog fighting in response to the indictment of football player Michael Vick. Senator Byrd stated:\n\nThe following day, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts said he had sent a letter to the NFL commissioner calling for Vick's immediate suspension. Kerry wrote to Commissioner Roger Goodell:\n\nKerry, the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, also said he planned to introduce anti-dogfighting legislation. According to his office, Senator Kerry's proposal would make it illegal to transmit images of dogfighting, to run Web sites that cater to dogfighting, and to own or train dogs for the purpose of fighting under Federal laws.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48422486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48422486", "title": "Etuate Tavai", "text": "Etuate Tavai\n\nEtuate Tavai (died 1999) served as Attorney General of Fiji from 1996 to 1999. He also served as a Senator. In this capacity he refused to legalize same-sex marriage and other homosexual relationships.\n"}
{"id": "54593275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54593275", "title": "Farm Debt Review Act", "text": "Farm Debt Review Act\n\nThe Farm Debt Review Act () was an Act of the Parliament of Canada dealing with the farm crisis affecting Canadian agriculture in the 1980s. It was in force from 1986 to 1998.\n\nFarm credit increased significantly in the late 1970s as Canadian farmers expanded their operations to meet greater world demand with expectations of continuing high commodity prices for their production. In the early 1980s, prices collapsed, and annual interest rates suddenly rose from 10% to as high as 24%. Similar, but more severe, conditions had been previously encountered during the Great Depression of the 1930s.\n\nIn September 1985, a moratorium had been placed on all foreclosure actions by the Farm Credit Corporation. To provide debt relief on a nationwide basis, the Act was introduced in June 1986, and received Royal Assent later that month.\n\nThe Act's scope was broad, as noted in its definitions:\n\nIts aim was to \"help farmers with the potential to be viable and remain in business.\" The significance of its framework was later described thus by one commentator:\nThe Act's operation was conducted in a decentralized manner:\n\nThe Act protected hobby farmers as well as commercial farmers, and the stay of proceedings applied to all the farmer's assets, whether connected to the farm or not. As well, a stay of proceedings under the Act voided any actions by a secured creditor, whether the stay was pleaded or not before a judge.\n\nThe Act would be in effect until the coming into force of the \"Farm Debt Mediation Act\" in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "494704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=494704", "title": "Fisheries management", "text": "Fisheries management\n\nFisheries management is the activity of protecting fishery resources so sustainable exploitation is possible, drawing on fisheries science, and including the precautionary principle. Modern fisheries management is often referred to as a governmental system of appropriate management rules based on defined objectives and a mix of management means to implement the rules, which are put in place by a system of monitoring control and surveillance. A popular approach is the ecosystem approach to fisheries management. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), there are \"no clear and generally accepted definitions of fisheries management\". However, the working definition used by the FAO and much cited elsewhere is: \nThe integrated process of information gathering, analysis, planning, consultation, decision-making, allocation of resources and formulation and implementation, with enforcement as necessary, of regulations or rules which govern fisheries activities in order to ensure the continued productivity of the resources and the accomplishment of other fisheries objectives.\n\nFisheries have been explicitly managed in some places for hundreds of years. More than 80 percent of the world's commercial exploitation of fish and shellfish are harvested from natural occurring populations in the oceans and freshwater areas. For example, the Māori people, New Zealand residents for about 700 years, had prohibitions against taking more than what could be eaten and about giving back the first fish caught as an offering to sea god Tangaroa. Starting in the 18th century attempts were made to regulate fishing in the North Norwegian fishery. This resulted in the enactment of a law in 1816 on the Lofoten fishery, which established in some measure what has come to be known as territorial use rights.\n\"The fishing banks were divided into areas belonging to the nearest fishing base on land and further subdivided into fields where the boats were allowed to fish. The allocation of the fishing fields was in the hands of local governing committees, usually headed by the owner of the onshore facilities which the fishermen had to rent for accommodation and for drying the fish.\"\nGovernmental resource protection-based fisheries management is a relatively new idea, first developed for North European fisheries after the first Overfishing Conference held in London in 1936. In 1957 British fisheries researchers Ray Beverton and Sidney Holt published a seminal work on North Sea commercial fisheries dynamics. In the 1960s the work became the theoretical platform for North European management schemes.\n\nAfter some years away from the field of fisheries management, Beverton criticized his earlier work in a paper given at the first World Fisheries Congress in Athens in 1992. \"The Dynamics of Exploited Fish Populations\" expressed his concerns, including the way his and Sidney Holt's work had been misinterpreted and misused by fishery biologists and managers during the previous 30 years. Nevertheless, the institutional foundation for modern fishery management had been laid.\n\nIn 1996, the Marine Stewardship Council was founded to set standards for sustainable fishing. In 2010, the Aquaculture Stewardship Council was created to do the same for aquaculture.\n\nA report by Prince Charles' International Sustainability Unit, the New York-based Environmental Defense Fund and 50in10 published in July 2014 estimated global fisheries were adding $270 billion a year to global GDP, but by full implementation of sustainable fishing, that figure could rise by an extra amount of as much as $50 billion.\n\nAccording to the FAO, fisheries management should be based explicitly on political objectives, ideally with transparent priorities. Typical political objectives when exploiting a fish resource are to:\n\nSuch political goals can also be a weak part of fisheries management, since the objectives can conflict with each other.\n\nFisheries objectives need to be expressed in concrete management rules. In most countries fisheries management rules should be based on the internationally agreed, though non-binding, Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries, agreed at a meeting of the U.N.'s Food and Agriculture Organization FAO session in 1995. The precautionary approach it prescribes is typically implemented in concrete management rules as minimum spawning biomass, maximum fishing mortality rates, etc. In 2005 the UBC Fisheries Centre at the University of British Columbia comprehensively reviewed the performance of the world's major fishing nations against the Code.\n\nInternational agreements are required in order to regulate fisheries in international waters. The desire for agreement on this and other maritime issues led to three conferences on the Law of the Sea, and ultimately to the treaty known as the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). Concepts such as exclusive economic zones (EEZ, extending from a nation's coasts) allocate certain sovereign rights and responsibilities for resource management to individual countries.\n\nOther situations need additional intergovernmental coordination. For example, in the Mediterranean Sea and other relatively narrow bodies of water, EEZ of are irrelevant. International waters beyond from shore require explicit agreements.\n\nStraddling fish stocks, which migrate through more than one EEZ also present challenges. Here sovereign responsibility must be agreed with neighbouring coastal states and fishing entities. Usually this is done through the medium of a regional organisation set up for the purpose of coordinating the management of that stock.\n\nUNCLOS does not prescribe precisely how fisheries confined only to international waters should be managed. Several new fisheries (such as high seas bottom trawling fisheries) are not (yet) subject to international agreement across their entire range. In November 2004 the UN General Assembly issued a resolution on Fisheries that prepared for further development of international fisheries management law.\n\nMany countries have set up Ministries/Government Departments, named \"Ministry of Fisheries\" or similar, controlling aspects of fisheries within their exclusive economic zones.\nFour categories of management means have been devised, regulating either input/investment, or output, and operating either directly or indirectly:\n\nTechnical means may include:\n\nSystems that use \"individual transferable quotas\" (ITQ), also called individual fishing quota limit the total catch and allocate shares of that quota among the fishers who work that fishery. Fishers can buy/sell/trade shares as they choose.\n\nA large scale study in 2008 provided strong evidence that ITQ's can help to prevent fishery collapse and even restore fisheries that appear to be in decline. Other studies have shown negative socio-economic consequences of ITQs, especially on small-sclale fisheries. These consequences include concentration of quota in that hands of few fishers; increased number of inactive fishers leasing their quotas to others (a phenomenon known as armchair fishermen); and detrimental effects on coastal communities.\n\n\"A Fishery Manager's Guidebook\" issued in 2002 by the FAO advises that a set of working principles should be applied to \"highlight the underlying key issues\" of fisheries management.\" There are 8 principles that should be considered as a whole in order to best manage a fishery. The first principle focuses on the finite nature of fish stocks and how potential yields must be estimated based on the biological constraints of the population.\n\nIn a paper published in 2007, Shertzer and Prager suggested that there can be significant benefits to stock biomass and fishery yield if management is stricter and more prompt. This is supported by recent work on the management of North Sea fisheries in accordance with ranges of acceptable fishing, where fishing at the top of the \"acceptable\" ranges is many times more risky than fishing near the bottom, but delivers only 20% more yield.\n\nFisheries law is an emerging and specialized area of law which includes the study and analysis of different fisheries management approaches, including seafood safety regulations and aquaculture regulations. Despite its importance, this area is rarely taught at law schools around the world, which leaves a vacuum of advocacy and research.\n\nFisheries legislation on a national level differs greatly between countries Fisheries may also me managed on an international level. One the first laws enacted was the \"United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 (LOS Convention)\", which entered into force in 1994. This law set the foundation for all international agreements related to oceans that followed.\n\nIn the past, changing climate has affected inland and offshore fisheries and such changes are likely to continue. From a fisheries perspective, the specific driving factors of climate change include rising water temperature, alterations in the hydrologic cycle, changes in nutrient fluxes, and relocation of spawning and nursery habitat. Further, changes in such factors would affect resources at all levels of biological organization, including the genetic, organism, population, and ecosystem levels. Understanding how these factors affect fisheries at a more nuanced level stand as challenges that fish biologists, across multiple fields, still need to face.\n\nPopulation dynamics describes the growth and decline of a given fishery stock over time, as controlled by birth, death and migration. It is the basis for understanding changing fishery patterns and issues such as habitat destruction, predation and optimal harvesting rates. The population dynamics of fisheries has been traditionally used by fisheries scientists to determine sustainable yields.\n\nThe basic accounting relation for population dynamics is the BIDE model:\n\nwhere \"N\" is the number of individuals at time 1, \"N\" is the number of individuals at time 0, \"B\" is the number of individuals born, \"D\" the number that died, \"I\" the number that immigrated, and \"E\" the number that emigrated between time 0 and time 1. While immigration and emigration can be present in wild fisheries, they are usually not measured.\n\nCare is needed when applying population dynamics to real world fisheries. In the past, over-simplistic modelling, such as ignoring the size, age and reproductive status of the fish, focusing solely on a single species, ignoring bycatch and physical damage to the ecosystem, has accelerated the collapse of key stocks.\n\nAccording to marine ecologist Chris Frid, the fishing industry points to pollution and global warming as the causes of unprecedentedly low fish stocks in recent years, writing, \"Everybody would like to see the rebuilding of fish stocks and this can only be achieved if we understand all of the influences, human and natural, on fish dynamics.\" Overfishing has also had an effect. Frid adds, “Fish communities can be altered in a number of ways, for example they can decrease if particular sized individuals of a species are targeted, as this affects predator and prey dynamics. Fishing, however, is not the sole perpetrator of changes to marine life - pollution is another example [...] No one factor operates in isolation and components of the ecosystem respond differently to each individual factor.\"\n\nIn contrast to the traditional approach of focusing on a single species, the ecosystem-based approach is organized in terms of ecosystem services. Ecosystem-based fishery concepts have been implemented in some regions. In 2007 a group of scientists offered the following \"ten commandments\":\n\n\nTraditional management practices aim to reduce the number of old, slow-growing fish, leaving more room and resources for younger, faster-growing fish. Most marine fish produce huge numbers of eggs. The assumption was that younger spawners would produce plenty of viable larvae.\n\nHowever, 2005 research on rockfish shows that large, elderly females are far more important than younger fish in maintaining productive fisheries. The larvae produced by these older maternal fish grow faster, survive starvation better, and are much more likely to survive than the offspring of younger fish. Failure to account for the role of older fish may help explain recent collapses of some major US West Coast fisheries. Recovery of some stocks is expected to take decades. One way to prevent such collapses is to establish marine reserves, where fishing is not allowed and fish populations age naturally.\n\nAccording to fisheries scientist Milo Adkison, the primary limitation in fisheries management decisions is the absence of quality data. Fisheries management decisions are often based on population models, but the models need quality data to be effective. He asserts that scientists and fishery managers would be better served with simpler models and improved data.\n\nThe most reliable source for summary statistics is the FAO Fisheries Department.\n\nEcopath, with Ecosim (EwE), is an ecosystem modelling software suite. It was initially a NOAA initiative led by Jeffrey Polovina, later primarily developed at the UBC Fisheries Centre of the University of British Columbia. In 2007, it was named as one of the ten biggest scientific breakthroughs in NOAA’s 200-year history. The citation states that Ecopath \"revolutionized scientists’ ability worldwide to understand complex marine ecosystems\". Behind this lies two decades of development work by Villy Christensen, Carl Walters, Daniel Pauly, and other fisheries scientists. As of 2010 there are 6000 registered users in 155 countries. Ecopath is widely used in fisheries management as a tool for modelling and visualising the complex relationships that exist in real world marine ecosystems.\n\nManaging fisheries is about managing people and businesses, and not about managing fish. Fish populations are managed by regulating the actions of people. If fisheries management is to be successful, then associated human factors, such as the reactions of fishermen, are of key importance, and need to be understood.\n\nManagement regulations must also consider the implications for stakeholders. Commercial fishermen rely on catches to provide for their families just as farmers rely on crops. Commercial fishing can be a traditional trade passed down from generation to generation. Most commercial fishing is based in towns built around the fishing industry; regulation changes can impact an entire town’s economy. Cuts in harvest quotas can have adverse effects on the ability of fishermen to compete with the tourism industry.\n\nEffective management of fisheries includes involving all stakeholders in the fishery. To do this successfully, stakeholders need to feel empowered enough to make meaningful contributions to the management process.\n\nEmpowerment has a wide application but in this context it refers to a tool that gives people within the fishing communities an opportunity to shape their own future in order to cope with the impacts from large-scale commercial fishing, competition of resources, and other threats that impact fishing communities.\n\nHowever, there are limits to empowerment in the fisheries management process. Empowerment maintains an involvement on the part of the state in fisheries management and no matter how empowered the other stakeholders are, the success of fisheries isn't possible without the legislative powers, financial resources, educational support, and research the government provides.\n\nThis concept is not accepted by all, as some communities and individuals argue that the state should withdraw completely and let the local communities handle their own fishery management based on cultural traditions and established practices. Additionally, others have argued that co-management only empowers the wealthy and powerful which in turn solidifies and validates the already existing inequalities of fisheries management. \n\nEmpowerment working as a function of co-management, carried out correctly, will not only enable but it will authorize individuals and communities to make meaningful contributions to fisheries management. It is a mechanism that works in a loop, where an individual gains empowerment and encouragement from being a part of the group and the collective action is only successful because of its empowered individuals. In order to effectively and successfully use empowerment as co-management, it is imperative that study programs, guidelines, reading materials, manuals, and checklists are developed and incorporated into all fisheries management. \n\nThe biomass of certain global fish stocks have been allowed to run down. The biomass of many species have now diminished to the point where it is no longer possible to sustainably catch the amount of fish that could be caught. According to a 2008 UN report, titled \"The Sunken Billions: The Economic Justification for Fisheries Reform\", the world's fishing fleets incur a \"$US 50 billion annual economic loss\" through depleted stocks and poor fisheries management. The report, produced jointly by the World Bank and the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), asserts that half the world's fishing fleet could be scrapped with no change in catch.\n\"By improving governance of marine fisheries, society could capture a substantial part of this $50 billion annual economic loss. Through comprehensive reform, the fisheries sector could become a basis for economic growth and the creation of alternative livelihoods in many countries. At the same time, a nation’s natural capital in the form of fish stocks could be greatly increased and the negative impacts of the fisheries on the marine environment reduced.\"\nThe most prominent failure of fisheries management in recent times has perhaps been the events that lead to the collapse of the northern cod fisheries. More recently, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists produced a series of journalistic investigations called \"Looting the seas\". These detail investigations into the black market for bluefin tuna, the subsidies propping up the Spanish fishing industry, and the overfishing of the Chilean jack mackerel.\n\n"}
{"id": "43116663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43116663", "title": "Food render", "text": "Food render\n\nFood render or food rent (Old English: \"foster\") was a form of tax in kind (Old English: \"feorm\") levied in Anglo-Saxon England, consisting of essential foodstuffs provided by territories such as \"regiones\", multiple estates or hundreds to kings and other members of royal households at a territory's royal vill.\n\nThe early medieval British Isles lacked the sophisticated trade in essential foodstuffs that had supported the urban economies of Roman Britain, and which would be necessary to support large agriculturally unproductive households remaining static in a single location. Kings and their entourages therefore constantly toured the subdivisions of their kingdoms, staying at networks of royal properties where they could expect to be supported by the territory's inhabitants. In the words of historian Thomas Charles-Edwards: \"it made much more sense to take a royal household to the food than the food to the royal household\".\n\nFood renders were distinct from the tribute that Kings extracted from other subjugated kingdoms. Food renders consisted of the varied range of foodstuffs that constituted a balanced diet and were consumed within the donor's territory. If the King or members of his household did not visit the donor was freed from his obligations for the year. Kings did not routinely travel through subjugated kingdoms, however, and tribute extracted from such areas often took the form of livestock that could easily be transported to the dominant kingdom.\n\nThe late 7th century laws of Ine of Wessex list the food render expected of an estate of ten hides as \"10 vats of honey, 300 loaves, 12 ambers of Welsh ale, 30 ambers of clear ale, 2 full-grown cows or 10 wethers, 10 geese, 20 hens, 10 cheeses, a full amber of butter, 5 salmon, 20 pounds in weight of fodder, and 100 eels.\" Grazing would also have been made available for visitors mounts.\n\n"}
{"id": "6833714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6833714", "title": "Hate crime laws in the United States", "text": "Hate crime laws in the United States\n\nHate crime laws in the United States are state and federal laws intended to protect against hate crimes (also known as \"bias crimes\") motivated by enmity or animus against a protected class of persons. Although state laws vary, current statutes permit federal prosecution of hate crimes committed on the basis of a person's protected characteristics of race, religion, ethnicity, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, and disability. The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ)/FBI, as well as campus security authorities, are required to collect and publish hate crime statistics.\n\nThe Civil Rights Act of 1968 enacted (b)(2), which permits federal prosecution of anyone who \"willingly injures, intimidates or interferes with another person, or attempts to do so, by force because of the other person's race, color, religion or national origin\" or because of the victim's attempt to engage in one of six types of federally protected activities, such as attending school, patronizing a public place/facility, applying for employment, acting as a juror in a state court or voting.\n\nPersons violating this law face a fine or imprisonment of up to one year, or both. If bodily injury results or if such acts of intimidation involve the use of firearms, explosives or fire, individuals can receive prison terms of up to 10 years, while crimes involving kidnapping, sexual assault, or murder can be punishable by life in prison or the death penalty. U.S. District Courts provide for criminal sanctions only. The Violence Against Women Act of 1994 contained a provision at which allowed victims of gender-motivated hate crimes to seek \"compensatory and punitive damages, injunctive and declaratory relief, and such other relief as a court may deem appropriate\", but the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"United States v. Morrison\" that the provision is unconstitutional.\n\nThe Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act, enacted in note Sec. 280003, requires the United States Sentencing Commission to increase the penalties for hate crimes committed on the basis of the actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin, ethnicity, or gender of any person. In 1995, the Sentencing Commission implemented these guidelines, which only apply to federal crimes.\n\nThe S. 1980 (104th): Church Arson Prevention Act of 1996 was introduced to Congress on June 19, 1996, but died because the Senate Committee found some places for improvement of the bill. It was sponsored by Republican Duncan Faircloth. On May 23, 1996, the House of Representatives introduced H.R. 3525 (104th): Church Arson Prevention Act. The Act was passed by both houses in Congress and signed by President Bill Clinton on July 3, 1996. This bill became law number Pub.L. 104-155. It was sponsored by Republican Henry Hyde. The bill was summarized by the Congressional Research Service as follows: \"[the Church Arson Prevention Act of 1996] makes Federal criminal code prohibitions against, and penalties for, damaging religious property or obstructing any person's free exercise of religious beliefs applicable where the offense is in, or affects, interstate commerce.\" One of the changes in the bill was the sentence increase for \"defacing or destroying any religious real property because of race, color, or ethnic characteristics…\" from 10 to 20 years. It also changed the statute of limitations from five years to seven years after the date the crime was committed. It reauthorizes the Hate Crimes Statistics Act.\n\nOn October 28, 2009 President Obama signed the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, attached to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, which expanded existing United States federal hate crime law to apply to crimes motivated by a victim's actual or perceived gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability, and dropped the prerequisite that the victim be engaging in a federally protected activity.\n\n45 states and the District of Columbia have statutes criminalizing various types of bias-motivated violence or intimidation (the exceptions are Arkansas, Georgia, whose hate crime statute was struck down by the Georgia Supreme Court in 2004, Indiana, South Carolina, and Wyoming). Each of these statutes covers bias on the basis of race, religion, and ethnicity; 32 cover disability; 31 of them cover sexual orientation; 28 cover gender; 17 cover transgender/gender-identity; 13 cover age; 5 cover political affiliation. and 3 along with Washington, D.C. cover homelessness.\n\n31 states and the District of Columbia have statutes creating a civil cause of action, in addition to the criminal penalty, for similar acts.\n\n27 states and the District of Columbia have statutes requiring the state to collect hate crime statistics; 16 of these cover sexual orientation.\n\n3 states and the District of Columbia cover homelessness.\n\n\nOn May 26, 2016, Louisiana was the first state to add police officers and firefighters to their state hate crime statute, when Governor John Bel Edwards signed an amendment from the legislature into law. This amendment was added, in part, as a response to the Black Lives Matter movement, which seeks to end police brutality against black people, with some advocates of the amendment using the slogan \"Blue Lives Matter\". Since the inception of Black Lives Matter, critics have found some of the movement's rhetoric anti-police, with the author of the amendment, Lance Harris, stating some \"were employing a deliberate campaign to terrorize our officers\". Despite the killing of a Texas sheriff in 2015 and the killings of two NYPD officers in the previous year, in response to the death of Eric Garner and the shooting of Michael Brown, there was little to no data suggesting hate crimes against law enforcement were a common problem when the bill was passed. A little less than two months after the amendment was passed, Baton Rouge was in the national spotlight after the Baton Rouge Police killing of Alton Sterling by two white police officers. This sparked protests in Baton Rouge, resulting in hundreds of arrests and increased racial tension nationally. In the week during those protests, five police officers were killed in Dallas, and the week after the protests, three more officers were killed in Baton Rouge. Both perpetrators were killed and the motives behind both shootings were responses to the recent police killings by police officers of black men.\n\nThe Hate Crime Statistics Act of 1990 , requires the Attorney General to collect data on crimes committed because of the victim's race, religion, disability, sexual orientation, or ethnicity. The bill was signed into law in 1990 by George H. W. Bush, and was the first federal statute to \"recognize and name gay, lesbian and bisexual people.\" Since 1992, the Department of Justice and the FBI have jointly published an annual report on hate crime statistics.\n\nIn 1994, the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act expanded the scope to include crimes based on disability, and the FBI began collecting data on disability bias crimes on January 1, 1997. In 1996, Congress permanently reauthorized the Act.\n\nThe Campus Hate Crimes Right to Know Act of 1997 enacted , which requires campus security authorities to collect and report data on hate crimes committed on the basis of race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, ethnicity, or disability. This bill was brought to the forefront by Senator Robert Torricelli.\n\nThe DOJ and the FBI have gathered statistics on hate crimes reported to law enforcement since 1992 in accordance with the Hate Crime Statistics Act. The FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services Division has annually published these statistics as part of its Uniform Crime Reporting program. According to these reports, of the over 113,000 hate crimes since 1991, 55% were motivated by racial bias, 17% by religious bias, 14% sexual orientation bias, 14% ethnicity bias, and 1% disability bias. David Ray Hate Crimes Prevention Act\n\nPlease note that the figures in the table below do not contain data from all reporting agencies every year. 2004 figures covered a population of 254,193,439, 2014 covered 297,926,030.\n\nFlorida, Maine, Maryland, and Washington, D.C. have hate crime laws that include the homeless status of an individual.\n\nA 2007 study found that the number of violent crimes against the homeless is increasing. The rate of such documented crimes in 2005 was 30% higher than of those in 1999. 75% of all perpetrators are under the age of 25. Studies and surveys indicate that homeless people have a much higher criminal victimization rate than the non-homeless, but that most incidents never get reported to authorities.\n\nIn recent years, largely due to the efforts of the National Coalition for the Homeless (NCH) and academic researchers the problem of violence against the homeless has gained national attention. The NCH called deliberate attacks against the homeless hate crimes in their report \"Hate, Violence, and Death on Mainstreet USA\" (they retain the definition of the American Congress).\n\nThe \"Center for the Study of Hate & Extremism\" at California State University, San Bernardino in conjunction with the NCH found that 155 homeless people were killed by non-homeless people in \"hate killings\", while 76 people were killed in all the other traditional hate crime homicide categories such as race and religion, combined. The CSHE contends that negative and degrading portrayals of the homeless contribute to a climate where violence takes place.\n\nPenalty-enhancement hate crime laws are traditionally justified on the grounds that, in Chief Justice Rehnquist's words, \"this conduct is thought to inflict greater individual and societal harm... bias-motivated crimes are more likely to provoke retaliatory crimes, inflict distinct emotional harms on their victims, and incite community unrest.\"\n\nIn a 2001 report: \"Hate crimes on campus: the problem and efforts to confront it,\" by Stephen Wessler and Margaret Moss of the Center for the Prevention of Hate Violence at the University of Southern Maine, the authors note that \"although there are fewer hate crimes directed against Caucasians than against other groups, they do occur and are prosecuted.\" In fact, the case in which the Supreme Court upheld hate crimes legislation against First Amendment attack, \"Wisconsin v. Mitchell\", 508 U.S. 476 (1993), involved a white victim. Hate crime statistics published in 2002, gathered by the FBI under the auspices of the Hate Crime Statistics Act of 1990, documented over 7,000 hate crime incidents, in roughly one-fifth of which the victims were white people. However, these statistics have caused dispute. The FBI's hate crimes statistics for 1993, which similarly reported 20% of all hate crimes to be committed against white people, prompted Jill Tregor, executive director of Intergroup Clearinghouse, to decry it as \"an abuse of what the hate crime laws were intended to cover\", stating that the white victims of these crimes were employing hate crime laws as a means to further penalize minorities.\n\nJames B. Jacobs and Kimberly Potter note that white people, including those who may be sympathetic to the plight of those who are victims of hate crimes \"by\" white people, bristle at the notion that hate crimes against whites are somehow inferior to, and less worthy than, hate crimes against other groups. They observe that while, as stated by Altschiller, no hate crime law makes any such distinction, the proposition has been argued by \"a number of writers in prominent publications\", who have advocated the removal of hate crimes against whites from the category of hate crime, on the grounds that hate crime laws, in their view, are intended to be affirmative action for \"protected groups\". Jacobs and Potter firmly assert that such a move is \"fraught with potential for social conflict and constitutional concerns.\"\n\nAnalysis of the 1999 FBI statistics by John Perazzo in 2001 found that white violence against black people was 28 times more likely to be labelled as a hate crime (1 in 45 incidents) than black violence against white people (1 in 1254 incidents). In analyzing hate crime \"hoaxes\", Katheryn Russell-Brown propounds a hypothesis explaining the disparity in how hate crimes against whites are viewed with respect to hate crimes against blacks. She hypothesizes that the prevailing view in the minds of the public, that hate-crimes-against-blacks hoaxers intend to take advantage of, is that the crime that whites are most likely to commit against blacks is a hate crime, and that it is hard for (in her words) \"most of us\" to envision a white person committing a crime against a black person for a different reason. The \"only\" white people who commit crimes against black people, goes the public belief, are racially prejudiced white extremists. Whereas in contrast, she continues, the situation with hate-crimes-against-whites hoaxers differs, because the popular perception is that black people \"in general\" are liable to \"run amok, committing depraved, unprovoked acts of violence\" against white people.\n\nP. J. Henry and Felicia Pratto assert that while certain hate crimes (that they do not specify) against white people are a valid category, that one can \"speak sensibly of\", and that while such crimes may be the result of racial prejudice, (and therefore if that is the case, they are squarely covered by hate crime legislation intent for prosecution), in a limited definition of the word, they assert do not constitute actual \"racism\" per se, because a hate crime against a member of a group that is superior in the alleged and dated power hierarchy by a member of one that is inferior, they believe may not be racist. The concept of racism as understood by a limited number of social scientists and some others, they allege, requires as a fundamental element a superior-to-inferior group-based power relationship, which a hate crime against white people they believe does not have. However, other social scientists who define racism in a broader sense realize \"whites\" have over the many centuries, and often do experience discrimination and segregation from their \"non white\" human cousins, because of their actually or perceived race. And since the components of discrimination and segregation exist within an academic definition of racism, \"whites\" have been, and many times are victims of racism. Current prison culture in America is a classic example of such discrimination and segregation, as whole groups, and different \"races\" are discriminated against and segregated based on such, with \"whites\" receiving more harsh treatment because of their perceived race and/or minority status in prison.\n\nNot all social scientists agree or affirm the opinion/supposition that racism litmus tests should be based on a group-based power relationships that include thousands of individuals over hundreds of years, rather they affirm they should be taken on a more individual case by case basis. Many social scientists agree that this is the most comprehensive and sensible way to determine whether racism is truly a motivating factor when the victim is white and the perpetrator is black. \"Whites\" are legally protected by hate crimes laws both within the laws themselves, and within the constitution's requirement they receive equal protection of the laws. Therefore, it's a moot point to determine if racism is a factor in the case of \"black\" on \"white\" crime for prosecution, since racism alone is not the only factor needed for prosecution. What is relevant to determine prosecution for a hate crime is whether any race or some other \"protected characteristic\" not \"protected groups\" was a factor in why a person targeted that/those individual/s to be their victim. e.g. If a \"black\" person targets a \"white\" person to be their victim simply because of his/her race or perceived race, whatever their accompanying rationale, they would be subject to hate crime prosecution. However, it's not without merit to determine their rationale, because it's within their rationale that one may verify if a true hate crime has been committed. This is why hate crimes are difficult to prosecute, because they essentially involve prosecuting thoughts rather than physical crimes, which are easier to prove. Therefore, this individual approach has been preferred over a blanket broad brush approach of past perceived ancestral sufferings and feelings of inferiority and/or superiority of groups that encompass thousands of individuals over hundreds of years.\n\nA United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary hearing entitled \"Responses to the Increase in Religious Hate Crimes\" was held on May 2, 2017 following a \"wave of more than 150 bomb threats against Jewish community centers and day schools\". In his statement to the hearing, Vanita Gupta, of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, reported that,\n\nDuring the hearing Eric Treene, the Justice Department's \"special counsel for religious discrimination\" said that Attorney General Jeff Sessions was \"committed to prosecuting those who commit religious hate crimes.\" Democratic senators raised concerns that the \"rhetoric and policies\" of President Donald Trump's administration had \"contributed to a spike\" in hate crimes. The hearing did not include any Muslims.\n\nA May 30 article in \"The Guardian\" entitled \"Legitimized in their hatred': a weekend of violence in Trump's America\" questioned whether Trump's presidency had \"emboldened racial violence\" and listed the \"brutal double murder in Portland, a stabbing in California, and the hit-and-run death of a Native American man\" over Memorial weekend as \"dark signs\". Thirty-four-year-old Anthony Hammond faced hate crime charges after reportedly stabbing \"a black man with a machete after yelling racial slurs\" on May 27, 2017 in Clearlake, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1991560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1991560", "title": "Imperial Diet", "text": "Imperial Diet\n\nImperial Diet means the highest representative assembly in an empire, notably:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17424222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17424222", "title": "Intangible asset finance", "text": "Intangible asset finance\n\nIntangible Asset Finance is the branch of finance that deals with intangible assets such as patents (legal intangible) and reputation (competitive intangible). Like other areas of finance, intangible asset finance is concerned with the interdependence of value, risk, and time.\n\nIn 2003, one estimate put the economic equilibrium of intangible assets in the U.S. economy at $5 trillion, which represented over one-third or more of the value of U.S. domestic corporations in the first quarter of 2001.\n\nOne of the goals of people working in this field is to unlock the \"hidden value\" found in intangible assets through the techniques of finance. Another goal is to measure how firm performance correlates with intangible asset management.\n\nIntangible assets include business processes, Intellectual Property (IP) such as patents, trademarks, reputations for ethics and integrity, quality, safety, sustainability, security, and resilience. Today, these intangibles drive cash flow and are the primary sources of risk. Intangible asset information, management, risk forecasting and risk transfer are growing services as the economic base divests itself of physical assets. Rights to tangible and intangible assets are intangible, and can be traded globally.\n\nA number of intangible asset business models have evolved over the years.\n\n\n\nOn June 23, 2008, the United States National Academies hosted a one-day conference in Washington, D.C. entitled \"Intangible Assets: Measuring and Enhancing Their Contribution to Corporate Value and Economic Growth.\"\n\nThe Intangible Asset Finance Society provides a forum for finance, innovation, legal and management professionals to discover better ways to create, capture and preserve the value of intangible assets.\n\nThe Athena Alliance is a non-profit organization dedicated to\npublic education and research on the emerging global information economy. On April 16, 2008 it published a widely circulated working paper on the topic of intangible asset finance.\n\n"}
{"id": "19448330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19448330", "title": "Intellectual property law in Senegal", "text": "Intellectual property law in Senegal\n\nAs in most developing countries, intellectual property protection in Senegal is weak. Copyright infringement is not regarded as a crime, and it is widely accepted by consumers. Senegal’s criminal law provisions do not provide for criminal procedures in case of trademark counterfeiting or copyright piracy on a commercial scale. In addition, because of budget constraints, Senegal’s Copyright Office has had difficulty enforcing sanctions against individuals who infringe copyrights in the course of business, including hackers and distributors of infringed copies. Nonetheless, the Copyright Office has begun vigorous attempts against counterfeit media, seizing items as well as putting stickers on legal merchandise. It is currently continuing these enforcement efforts. Microsoft began an anti-piracy campaign in Senegal in early 2004 and reports some success in converting users of pirated Microsoft products through the sale of deeply discounted Microsoft licenses.\nSenegal is a signatory to the Berne Convention. It also is a member of the African Organization of Intellectual Property (OAPI), a grouping of 15 Francophone African countries, which has established among its member states a common system for obtaining and maintaining protection for patents, trademarks and industrial designs. Therefore, rights registered in one member country are valid in all. Patent validity is 20 years. Registered trademarks are protected for 20 years at each registration, renewable without limit.\nSenegal is a signatory to the World Trade Organization and its Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Agreement (TRIPS). Since January 2000, Senegal theoretically has been in full compliance with the TRIPS accord, but has yet to deposit its instruments of ratification for WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms.\n"}
{"id": "18513897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18513897", "title": "International copyright treaties", "text": "International copyright treaties\n\nWhile no creative work is automatically protected worldwide, there are international treaties which provide protection automatically for all creative works as soon as they are fixed in a medium. There are two primary international copyright agreements, the Universal Copyright Convention and the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works.\n\nThe Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (also referred to as just the Berne Convention) requires protection for all creative works in a fixed medium be automatic, and last for at least 50 years after the author's death for any work except for photographic and cinematographic works. Photographic works are tied to a minimum of 25 years. Cinematographic works are protected for 50 years after first showing, or 50 years after creation if it hasn't been shown within 50 years after the creation. The Berne Convention also allows for the rule of the shorter term, stating that \"unless the legislation of that country otherwise provides, the term shall not exceed the term fixed in the country of origin of the work\". Not all countries have applied this rule however.\n\nThe Buenos Aires Convention (Third Pan-American Convention) was a treaty signed by most North and South American countries, which allows for protection of all creative works as long as they contain a notice informing that the creator claims copyright on it. The Buenos Aires Convention also instituted the \"rule of the shorter term\", where the length of the copyright term for the work in a country was whichever was shorter - the length of the term in the source country, or the protecting country of the work.\n\nAll Buenos Aires countries are now also parties to the Berne Convention, but elements from Buenos Aires are still used in the modern era, such as the rule of the shorter term.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001926", "title": "Kermit Roosevelt III", "text": "Kermit Roosevelt III\n\nKermit Roosevelt III (born July 14, 1971) is an American writer, author, lawyer, and professor at the University of Pennsylvania. He is a great-great-grandson of United States President Theodore Roosevelt (1858–1919) and the fifth cousin four times removed of President Franklin D. Roosevelt (1882–1945).\n\nRoosevelt was born in Washington, D.C. on July 14, 1971. His father, also named Kermit (born April 7, 1938), is a great-grandson of President Theodore Roosevelt. He graduated from St. Albans School (where he was a Presidential Scholar), Harvard University, and Yale Law School. He was a law clerk for Judge Stephen F. Williams of the D.C. Circuit, and clerked for U.S. Supreme Court Justice David Souter.\n\nRoosevelt worked as a lawyer with Mayer Brown in Chicago from 2000 to 2002 before joining the Penn Law faculty in 2002.\n\nRoosevelt's areas of academic interest include conflicts of law and constitutional law. He has published in the Virginia Law Review, the Michigan Law Review, and the Columbia Law Review, among others, and his articles have been cited twice by the United States Supreme Court and numerous times by state and lower federal courts.\n\nSome of his recent scholarly publications include \"Detention and Interrogation in the Post-9/11 World,\" delivered as the Donahue Lecture at Suffolk University Law School in 2008, \"Guantanamo and the Conflict of Laws: \"Rasul\" and Beyond\" (2005), published in the \"University of Pennsylvania Law Review\", \"Constitutional Calcification: How the Law Becomes What the Court Does,\" \"University of Virginia Law Review\" (2005), and \"Resolving Renvoi: the Bewitchment of Our Intelligence by Means of Language,\" \"Notre Dame Law Review\" (2005).\n\nRoosevelt is also an award-winning novelist. His debut novel \"In the Shadow of the Law\" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 2005) won the Philadelphia Athenaeum Annual Literary Award. A national campus bestseller, the novel was the New York Times Book Review Editors' Choice Selection and a Christian Science Monitor Best Book of the Year. In a 2005 \"New York Times\" review of Roosevelt's novel \"In the Shadow of the Law\", Alan Dershowitz wrote, \"I recommend this book with real enthusiasm. Why? Precisely because it doesn't glamorize its subject. Roosevelt's gritty portrayal of the transformation of bright-eyed and colorful young associates into dim-eyed and gray middle-aged partners (no one seems to make it to his or her golden years) rings true of all too many corporate law factories.\" In 2006, Paramount filmed a pilot episode (written by Carol Mendelsohn) for a TV series based on the novel, starring Joshua Jackson, Frank Langella, Kevin Pollak, Monet Mazur, and Alan Tudyk.\n\nHis second novel, \"Allegiance\", published in 2015, was a Harper Lee Prize finalist. It received favorable reviews in \"The Wall Street Journal\" (\"well worth reading\") and \"The Richmond Times-Dispatch\" (\"splendid, troubling, and authoritative\") and a starred review from Publishers Weekly. Based on actual events, the story examines U.S. national security policies during World War II, focusing on President Franklin D. Roosevelt's executive order 9066, which authorized the internment of Japanese Americans. Roosevelt studied court documents and personal diaries of key political figures, including Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black, J. Edgar Hoover, Felix Frankfurter, and Francis Biddle, to accurately portray the circumstances and motivations behind the decisions that led to the internment. \"Allegiance\" recaptures the legal debates within the US government, including the Supreme Court cases Hirabayashi vs. United States and Korematsu vs. United States, and explores the moral issues surrounding U.S. national security policies.\n\nIn December, 2015, Kermit Roosevelt was a keynote speaker at The Commonwealth Club in San Francisco, California. Karen Korematsu, daughter of Fred Korematsu and director of The Korematsu Institute, attended the event. In May, 2016, Roosevelt and Karen Korematsu were featured speakers at the National Constitution Center for a program entitled, \"Civil Liberties in Times of Crisis.\" Jess Bravin, the Supreme Court correspondent for \"The Wall Street Journal\", served as moderator. It is the first time a member of the Roosevelt family and a member of the Korematsu family appeared in a public forum.\n\nIn January, 2015, the Japan Society hosted an event featuring Kermit Roosevelt and actor/activist George Takei, who was five years old when he and his family were forced into an internment camp. Takei called Roosevelt's book \"Allegiance,\" \"A rip-roaring good read.\"\n\nRoosevelt is a Distinguished Research Fellow of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania and a member of the American Law Institute. In November 2014, the American Law Institute announced that Roosevelt had been selected as the Reporter for the Third Restatement of Conflict of Laws. Roosevelt is also a lecturer for Kaplan Bar Review. He prepares students in all 50 states for the Constitutional Law portion of the bar exam.\n\nRoosevelt is an internationally recognized expert on constitutional law, the Supreme Court, national security and civil liberties, US Presidential history, and Japanese American internment. He is a frequent contributor to national and international media outlets, including \"Time\", \"The New York Times\", the \"Huffington Post\", and \"Newsmax\". His TEDx talk (June, 2016) is entitled \"Myth America: The Declaration, the Constitution, and Us.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26245531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26245531", "title": "Land consolidation", "text": "Land consolidation\n\nLand consolidation is a planned readjustment and rearrangement of land parcels and their ownership. It is usually applied to form larger and more rational land holdings. Land consolidation can be used to improve the rural infrastructure and to implement the developmental and environmental policies (improving environmental sustainability and agriculture).<ref name=\"10.1016/j.landusepol.2009.07.008\"></ref>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53504025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53504025", "title": "Legal syllogism", "text": "Legal syllogism\n\nLegal syllogism is a legal concept concerning the law and its application. It is based upon deductive reasoning applied for the sake of law, hence it is also called legal deduction or deductive legal reasoning.\n\nIn legal syllogism there are two premises, minor and major, and one conclusion.\n\nThe place of the major premise is taken by a legal norm (or rule). This norm (rule) may be derived from canonical text (text of statutes, constitutions, regulations, international treaties and agreements, ordinances, bylaws etc) or from a judicial precedent. In the latter case, it can be called \"ratio decidendi\" or ruling. In the main, it can be considered as a general expression which, in generic terms, states what one ought to do or ought not to do in a certain type of circumstances. \n\nThe facts of the case at hand (also called pending, instant, \"sub judice\", at bar or under argument) serve as the minor premise. These facts may be understood as all elements of the factual setting of the case at hand, i.e. the details of the events, things and persons which occurred in a case to which the rule/norm that constitutes the major premise is to be applied deductively.\n\nThe conclusion is formed by the legal consequence for the case at hand.\n\nIf the norm that forms the major premise is valid (binding in a given legal system) and the facts of the case at hand are proven or posited as true, the conclusion of legal syllogism which flows from subsuming these facts under this norm (rule) is supposed to be correct as well.\n\nIn that sense, legal syllogism can be deemed to be equally infallible as 'ordinary' ('logical') syllogism. Such a claim is, however, ill-founded and, in fact, subsumption of a concrete case under a general rule proves to be a value-laden and goal-oriented process. Neither is it 'logical', nor 'mechanical'. \n\n"}
{"id": "24515390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24515390", "title": "List of international law journals", "text": "List of international law journals\n\nThis list presents representative law reviews concerned with international law and related fields.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45381714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45381714", "title": "MyMiniFactory", "text": "MyMiniFactory\n\nMyMiniFactory is an online community for designers and makers who want to share free or paid 3d printable designs. Unlike other sites, they guarantee the printability of their files. MyMiniFactory has over twelve categories of objects including Toys and Games, Props and Cosplay, Fan Art, Education, Jewellery, Gadgets, board games and tabletop, Home and Garden, Fashion and Accessories, Spare Parts, Sports and Outdoors, and Upcycling.\n\nWith the initiative to preserve the cultural heritage through 3d printing, MyMiniFactory is also home to the largest collection of 3D scanned statues and artifacts from around the globe - the Scan The World collection.\n\nLaunched in 2013, and now hosting over 60,000 3D printable files and objects, and a community of 270,000 users, MyMiniFactory has become the largest guaranteed social platform for 3D printable designs. The social platform hosts 3D printable objects from over 10,000 talented 3D designers.\n\nMyMiniFactory values openness and quality over quantity. The vast majority of the 3D printable files available are free to download, edit and re-upload—after going through the validation and test print processes. Through this curation and open distribution,  users are encouraged to create original and derivative content, provide feedback and support to other users, and generally stimulate the proliferation of 3D design and 3D printing technology in a free and open manner. In this vein MyMiniFactory have partnered with the likes of Oxfam in an attempt to solve humanitarian problems using open source design and manufacture.\n\nIn June 2018 MyMiniFactory opened an online STL file store where 3D designers can sell premium 3D printable files.\n\nMyMiniFactory offers to brands the possibility to crowdsource their creation of quality innovative  3D designs via 3D design competitions. The platform has been very successful in attracting world class brands such as Royal Mail (see partnership section for more information), IKEA, the Warner Bros Group - Turner's Adventure time, Rovio's Angry Birds, Autodesk, Google or the Exxon Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "55816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55816", "title": "National Labor Relations Act of 1935", "text": "National Labor Relations Act of 1935\n\nThe National Labor Relations Act of 1935 (49 Stat. 449) (also known as the Wagner Act after New York Senator Robert F. Wagner) is a foundational statute of United States labor law which guarantees basic rights of private sector employees to organize into trade unions, engage in collective bargaining for better terms and conditions at work, and take collective action including strike if necessary. The act also created the National Labor Relations Board, which conducts elections that can expect employers to engage in collective bargaining with labor unions (also known as trade unions). The Act does not apply to workers who are covered by the Railway Labor Act, agricultural employees, domestic employees, supervisors, federal, state or local government workers, independent contractors and some close relatives of individual employers.\n\nPresident Franklin Roosevelt signed the legislation into law on July 5, 1935.\n\nIt also has its roots in a variety of different labor acts previously enacted:\n\nUnder section 1 () of the Act, the key principles and policy findings on which the Act was based are explained. The Act aims to correct the \"inequality of bargaining power between employees who, according to the Act's proponents, do not possess full freedom of association or actual liberty of contract and employers who are organized in the corporate or other forms of ownership association\". To achieve this, the central idea is the promotion of collective bargaining between independent trade unions, on behalf of the workforce, and the employer.\n\nVarious definitions are explained in section 2, () including 2(5) defining \"labor organization\" and 2(9) defining \"labor dispute\". The Act aims to protect employees as a group, and so is not based on a formal or legal relationship between an employer and employee.\n\nThe National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), which was established in NLRA 1935 sections 3 to 6 (), is the primary enforcer of the Act. Employees and unions may act themselves in support of their rights, however because of collective action problems and the costs of litigation, the National Labor Relations Board is designed to assist and bear some of the costs. Under section 3, () the NLRB has two basic functions: overseeing the process by which employees decide whether to be represented by a labor organization and prosecuting violations. Those processes are initiated in the regional offices of the NLRB. The General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board give legal advice. Sections 4 () and 5 () set out provisions on the officers of the Board and their expenses. Section 6 () empowers the Board to issue rules interpreting the labor legislation. This will generally be binding, unless a court deems it to have acted outside its authority.\n\nUnder section 10 () the NLRB is empowered to prevent unfair labor practices, which may ultimately be reviewed by the courts. Under section 11 it can lead investigations, collect evidence, issue subpoenas, and require witnesses to give evidence. Under section 12 () it is an offense for people to unduly interfere with the Board's conduct.\n\nSection 7 () sets out the general principle that employees have the right to join a trade union and engage in collective bargaining.\n\nSpecific rules in support of collective bargaining are as follows.\n\nUnder section 8 () the law defines a set of prohibited actions by employers, employees, and unions, known as an unfair labor practice. The first five unfair labor practices aimed at employers are in section 8(a). These are,\n\nIn addition, added by the Taft–Hartley Act, there are seven unfair labor practices aimed at unions and employees.\n\nUnder section 9 () the people elected by a majority of the workforce have the right to become the exclusive representatives of workers in collective bargaining with the employer.\n\nThe NLRA 1935 does not cover two main groups of employees: those working for the government, and in the railway or airline industries. Section 2(2) (29 USC §152(2)) states that the Act does not apply to employees of the \"United States or any wholly owned Government corporation, or any Federal Reserve Bank, or any State or political subdivision thereof, or any person subject to the Railway Labor Act\". Under section 19 (), people who have religious convictions against joining a trade union are entitled to not associate or financially support it.\n\nIt also excludes domestic workers and farm workers. \nThe Social Security Act of 1935 excluded from coverage about half the workers in the American economy. Among the excluded groups were agricultural and domestic workers—a large percentage of whom were African Americans.\n\nThe act was bitterly opposed by the Republican Party and business groups. The American Liberty League viewed the act as a threat to freedom and engaged in a campaign of opposition in order to repeal these \"socialist\" efforts. This included encouraging employers to refuse to comply with the NLRB and supporting the nationwide filing of injunctions to keep the NLRB from functioning. This campaign continued until the NLRA was found constitutional by the Supreme Court in \"National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation\" (1937).\n\nLabor groups, while overwhelmingly supportive, expressed a set of reservations. The American Federation of Labor and some employers accused the NLRB of favoring the Congress of Industrial Organizations, particularly when determining whether to hold union elections in plant-wide, or wall-to-wall, units, which the CIO usually sought, or to hold separate elections in separate craft units, which the craft unions in the AFL favored. While the NLRB initially favored plant-wide units, which tacitly favored the CIO's industrial unionism, it retreated to a compromise position several years later under pressure from Congress that allowed craft unions to seek separate representation of smaller groups of workers at the same time that another union was seeking a wall-to-wall unit.\n\nEmployers and their allies in Congress also criticized the NLRA for its expansive definition of \"employee\" and for allowing supervisors and plant guards to form unions, sometimes affiliated with the unions that represented the employees whom they were supposed to supervise or police. Many accused the NLRB of a general pro-union and anti-employer bias, pointing to the Board's controversial decisions in such areas as employer free speech and \"mixed motive\" cases, in which the NLRB held that an employer violated the Act by using misconduct that ordinarily would not result in termination to fire an employee who was engaged in pro-union activity. In addition, employers campaigned over the years to outlaw a number of union practices such as closed shops, secondary boycotts, jurisdictional strikes, mass picketing, strikes in violation of contractual no-strike clauses, pension and health and welfare plans sponsored by unions and multi-employer bargaining.\n\nMany of these criticisms included provisions that employers and their allies were unable to have included in the NLRA. Others developed in reaction to NLRB decisions. Over all, they wanted the NLRB to be neutral as to bargaining power, but the NLRA's policy section takes a decidedly pro-employee position:\n\nIt is declared to be the policy of the United States to eliminate the causes of certain substantial obstructions to the free flow of commerce and to mitigate and eliminate these obstructions when they have occurred \"by encouraging the practice and procedure of collective bargaining and by protecting the exercise by workers of full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing, for the purpose of negotiating the terms and conditions of their employment or other mutual aid or protection\".\n\nSome of these changes were later achieved in the 1947 amendments.\n\nOpponents of the Wagner Act introduced several hundred bills to amend or repeal the law in the decade after its passage. All of them failed or were vetoed until the passage of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, or the Taft–Hartley Act, in 1947.\n\nMore recent unsuccessful efforts included attempts in 1978 to permit triple backpay awards and union collective bargaining certification based on signed union authorization cards, a provision that is similar to one of the proposed amendments in the Employee Free Choice Act. Under the NLRA, unions can become the representative based on signed union authorization cards only if the employer voluntarily recognizes the union. If the employer refuses to recognize the union, the union can be certified through a secret-ballot election conducted by the NLRB.\n\nThe Little Wagner Act, written by Ida Klaus, is the New York City version of the Wagner Act.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17558932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17558932", "title": "National Service (Armed Forces) Act 1939", "text": "National Service (Armed Forces) Act 1939\n\nThe National Service (Armed Forces) Act 1939 was enacted by the Parliament of the United Kingdom on 3 September 1939, the day the United Kingdom declared war on Germany at the start of the Second World War. It superseded the Military Training Act 1939 (passed in May of that year) and enforced full conscription on all males between 18 and 41 who were residents in the UK. It was continued in a modified form in peacetime by the National Service Act 1948.\n\n\n\n3. Broad, Roger, \"Conscription in Britain 1939-64: The Militarisation of a Generation\" (Abingdon Routledge, 20060\"\n\n"}
{"id": "42131338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42131338", "title": "Oleksandr Shevchenko", "text": "Oleksandr Shevchenko\n\nOleksandr Oksentiyovych Shevchenko (; 26 June 1937 – 15 January 2016) was a Ukrainian scientist, jurist, politician, and doctor of legal sciences.\n\nShevchenko was born on June 26, 1937 in sovkhoz Partizany, Simferopol Raion, Russian SFSR. He graduated from the historic-philosophy faculty of Kiev University in 1965. Shevchenko obtained his doctorate in 1995. After graduation, he worked at Dnipropetrovsk National University and as an English language interpreter during construction of a metallurgy plant in Egypt. Since 1971 Shevchenko has worked at Kiev University.\n\nIn the October 2014 parliamentary election Shevchenko was 31st on the election list of his party; since the party came 0.29% short to overcome the 5% threshold to win seats on the nationwide list he was not elected into parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "13376109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13376109", "title": "Police Reservists Act 1902", "text": "Police Reservists Act 1902\n\nThe Police Reservists Act 1902 (2 Edw 7 c. 10) was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, given the royal assent on 22 July 1902 and repealed shortly thereafter.\n\nIt provided that if a police constable was called out for permanent service in the Army Reserve as a result of the proclamation of 7 October 1899 (embodying the reserves for the South African War), the police authority was empowered to count any time served in the Reserve as time spent in police service for the purpose of pensions awarded under the Police Act 1890 or the Police (Scotland) Act 1890.\n\nThe Act was repealed by the Police (Superannuation) Act 1906 in so far as it applied to England and Wales, and by the Police (Scotland) Act (1890) Amendment Act 1910 for the residue applying to Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "23736675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23736675", "title": "Public Service Commission of Canada", "text": "Public Service Commission of Canada\n\nThe Public Service Commission of Canada (PSC; ) is an independent government agency that safeguards merit-based hiring, non-partisanship, representativeness of Canada's diversity and the use of both official languages (English and French) in the Canadian public service. The PSC aims to protect the integrity of hiring and promotion within the public service. As well, the Commission works to protect the political impartiality and non-partisanship of public servants. The Commission develops staffing policies and provides guidance to public service managers and recruits Canadians into the public service. To ensure the staffing system in the government is properly maintained, the PSC has the authority to audit and investigate to ensure departments and managers make improvements. While typical government departments are headed by Ministers, the PSC is an independent agency that is headed by a President (currently Patrick Borbey) who reports to the Canadian Parliament.\n\nThe PSC has the mandate to appoint people to the public service, and to promote people within the government which can in turn be delegated to deputy heads (often referred to as Deputy Ministers in Canada). The PSC can also assist government departments with recruitment and assessment services.\nThe PSC oversees the integrity of the hiring and promotion system, and makes sure that the hiring process is not compromised by partisan interference from elected officials. Part of this overseeing role involves collecting and analyzing data on hiring and promotion in the public service (e.g., hiring of different groups, by region, by department). As well, the PSC performs audits across the staffing system, examining hiring and promotion files, to ensure that employees are hired and promoted based on merit. Lastly, the PSC administers the Part VII of \"Public Service Employment Act\" that recognizes the rights of public service employees to engage in political activities while maintaining the principle of political impartiallity in the public service.\nThe mission of the PSC is to achieve \"A highly competent, non-partisan and representative Public Service, able to provide services in both official languages and in which employment practices are characterized by fairness, access, representativeness and transparency\n\nThe PSC has set out four program activities that are done to reach its strategic outcome:\n\n\nThe 2003 \"Public Service Employment Act\" (which came into force on December 31, 2005) emphasizes the values of merit, non-partisanship, fairness, access, transparency and representativeness.\n\nMerit refers to the use of essential qualifications during the hiring and promotion process. This means that people who are hired and promoted in the public service must possess certain competencies, skills, and experience (merit), rather than based on political connections or partisan affiliations (political patronage). The merit principle requires that every person who is appointed to the public service has met the essential qualifications and requirements established for the position. The essential requirements can include official language proficiency, asset qualifications, operational requirements (e.g., availability to do shift work or work on weekends), and organizational needs (e.g., need to increase the hiring of women) that have been identified by the head of a department or agency.\n\nNon-partisanship means that appointments of people to the public service (and promotions of public servants )have to be made without political influence from Ministers or partisan officials. Although Canadian public servants were disallowed any involvement in political activities in their private time throughout much of the 20th century, in 1967, legislative changes allowed public servants to request permission to take leave without pay to run in an election. In 1991, a Supreme Court decision gave public servants the right to engage in political activities. The 2003 Public Service Employment Act clarified what political activities public servants are allowed to engage in.\n\nPublic servants can engage in political activities such as supporting a candidate in an election or taking leave without pay to run in an election, but they have to maintain their political impartiality as public servants. In order to comply with the non-partisanship values in the Act, public servants must only do the types of political activities that do not conflict or impair their ability to fulfill their responsibilities in a politically impartial manner. The type and degree of political activities that a public servant can engage in depends on several factors, such as the visibility of the political activities that the public servant wants to engage in and the visibility of the public servant in their job in the public service.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57941026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57941026", "title": "Secretariat of Justice (San Marino)", "text": "Secretariat of Justice (San Marino)\n\nThe Secretariat of State for Justice, Information & Research of San Marino (or Ministry of Justice) implements the policies concerning justice set out in the government program. In particular, the ministry has the following duties:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "362945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362945", "title": "Senior counsel", "text": "Senior counsel\n\nThe title of senior counsel or state counsel (post-nominal letters: SC) is given to a senior lawyer in some countries that were formerly part of the British Empire. \"Senior Counsel\" is used in current or former Commonwealth countries or jurisdictions that have chosen to change the title \"Queen's Counsel\" to a name without monarchical connotations, sometimes (but not always) because the British monarch is no longer head of state, such that reference to the Queen is no longer appropriate. Examples of jurisdictions which have made the change because of the latter reason include Mauritius, Zambia, India, Hong Kong, the Republic of Ireland, South Africa, Kenya, Malawi, Singapore, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago. Just as a junior counsel is \"called to the [Outer] Bar\", a senior counsel is, in some jurisdictions, said to be \"called to the Inner Bar\". Senior counsel may informally style themselves as \"silks\", like their British counterparts. This is the case in Ireland, Australia, Hong Kong and South Africa.\n\nA second usage, prevalent in the United Kingdom itself (which retains the separate and distinct Queen's Counsel title for barristers) refers to a solicitor who is senior and autonomous, but is neither a partner nor on the career path to partnership. \n\nIn Hong Kong, senior counsel (both men and women) must wear the black robe and silk gown together with a wig when appearing in open court.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, senior counsel wear a silk gown which differs from that of a Junior Counsel. The wig is optional in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe rank of senior counsel has also been introduced in most states and territories of Australia, even though the Queen remains head of state. Between 1993 and 2008 all Australian jurisdictions except the Northern Territory replaced the rank of Queen's Counsel with that of senior counsel. However, in 2013 Queensland restored the rank of Queen's Counsel and there was talk of other Australian states following suit. On 3 February 2014, the Victorian Attorney-General announced that the rank of Queen's Counsel would shortly be reinstated in Victoria, with existing and future senior counsel having the option to apply to be issued with letters patent appointing them as Queen's Counsel.\nThe formal difference appears to be that QCs receive a warrant signed by the relevant State Governor, who is the formal representative of the Head of State, whereas SCs receive a certificate issued by the relevant Bar Association or bureaucracy such as by the judicature of the State Supreme Court as the case may be.\n\n\"Senior Counsel\" () replaced QC in the law of Hong Kong after the transfer of the sovereignty of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom to China in 1997. Queen's Counsel who had been appointed QC in HK or British Queen's Counsel who had been admitted to practice in Hong Kong generally prior to the handover became senior counsel automatically.\n\nQueen's Counsel from England or other senior counsel from other jurisdictions are not accorded any precedence if they are admitted generally in Hong Kong. However, visiting Queen's Counsel from another jurisdiction who have been admitted for a specific case are entitled to use the title, and to be accorded the status, of senior counsel for the purposes of those proceedings.\n\nThe Irish Free State became independent in 1922 as a dominion of the British Crown. Shortly after the Courts of Justice Act 1924 came into effect, Chief Justice Hugh Kennedy in conjunction with the Bar Council of Ireland modified the procedure for issuing patents of precedence. From July 1924, \"King's Counsel\" was replaced by \"Senior Counsel\" on patents; these were issued by the chief justice, although the \"privilege of patent\" continued to fall within the royal prerogative until transferred to the Executive Council (government) by the Executive Powers (Consequential Provisions) Act 1937. The title \"KC\" continued to be used by many senior counsels, both those created before July 1924 and those after.\n\nIn 1949, shortly before the coming into force of the Republic of Ireland Act 1948 which broke the final link with the British Crown, Frank Aiken asked John A. Costello during Taoiseach's questions \"whether, in view of the fact that certain members of the Inner Bar who received their patents as senior counsel continue to describe themselves as king's counsel, he will introduce a bill entitled an act to declare that the description of a senior counsel shall be senior counsel\"; Costello said he had \"no intention of wasting public time and money\" on the idea.\n\nAs late as the 1960s, R. G. L. Leonard was described in the official Irish law reports as \"Queen’s Counsel\", reflecting the British change from King to Queen in 1952.\n\nThe title \"Senior Counsel\" was briefly established in New Zealand from 2007 until 2009. It was abolished by the following government in favour of restoring the title of Queen's Counsel on the basis of the respect felt accorded to those appointed Queen's Counsel. Those appointed as senior counsel have been given the option of becoming Queen's Counsel or remaining as senior counsel.\n\n\"Senior Counsel\" () is used in the law of Singapore. There is no independent bar in Singapore and senior counsel practice as members of law firms.\n\n\"Senior Counsel\" (in Afrikaans Senior Advokaat) replaced QC in South Africa after the union became a republic in 1961, with appointments being made by the state president until 1994, when the office was succeeded by that of president. A judge in the high court in the province of Gauteng ruled that under the 1993 constitution, the president did not have the power to grant senior counsel status. This judgment has been overturned by the supreme court of appeal and also the constitutional court. See Advocate#Advocates in South Africa.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the position of Senior Counsel is used to denote an experienced solicitor (who need not be an advocate), who is not on the path to partnership. This position is therefore analogous to the American title of counsel, and is not directly comparable to the position of Queen's Counsel, which is held by barristers.\n\nOther jurisdictions have adopted similar titles:\n\n"}
{"id": "54009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54009", "title": "Shill", "text": "Shill\n\nA shill, also called a plant or a stooge, is a person who publicly helps or gives credibility to a person or organization without disclosing that they have a close relationship with the person or organization. Shills can carry out their operations in the areas of media, journalism, marketing, politics, confidence games, or other business areas. A shill may also act to discredit opponents or critics of the person or organization in which they have a vested interest through character assassination or other means.\n\nIn most uses, \"shill\" refers to someone who purposely gives onlookers, participants or \"marks\" the impression of an enthusiastic customer independent of the seller, marketer or con artist, for whom they are secretly working. The person or group in league with the shill relies on crowd psychology to encourage other onlookers or audience members to do business with the seller or accept the ideas they are promoting. Shills may be employed by salespeople and professional marketing campaigns. \"Plant\" and \"stooge\" more commonly refer to a person who is secretly in league with another person or outside organization while pretending to be neutral or a part of the organization in which they are planted, such as a magician's audience, a political party, or an intelligence organization (see double agent).\n\nShilling is illegal in many circumstances and in many jurisdictions because of the potential for fraud and damage; however, if a shill does not place uninformed parties at a risk of loss, but merely generates \"buzz\", the shill's actions may be legal. For example, a person planted in an audience to laugh and applaud when desired (see claque), or to participate in on-stage activities as a \"random member of the audience\", is a type of legal shill. \"Shill\" can also be used pejoratively to describe a critic who appears either all-too-eager to heap glowing praise upon mediocre offerings, or who acts as an apologist for glaring flaws.\n\nThe origin of the term \"shill\" is uncertain; it may be an abbreviation of \"shillaber\". The word originally denoted a carnival worker who pretended to be a member of the audience in an attempt to elicit interest in an attraction. Some sources trace the usage back to 1914.\n\nIn online discussion media, satisfied consumers or \"innocent\" parties may express specific opinions in order to further the interests of an organization in which they have an interest, such as a commercial vendor or special interest group. In academia, this is called \"opinion spamming\". Web sites can also be set up for the same purpose. For example, an employee of a company that produces a specific product might praise the product anonymously in a discussion forum or group in order to generate interest in that product, service, or group. In addition, some shills use \"sock puppetry\", where they sign on as one user soliciting recommendations for a specific product or service. They then sign on as a different user pretending to be a satisfied customer of a specific company.\n\nIn some jurisdictions and circumstances, this type of activity is illegal. The plastic surgery company Lifestyle Lift ordered their employees to post fake positive reviews on websites. As a result, they were sued, and ordered to pay $300,000 in damages by the New York Attorney General's office.\n\nReputable organizations may prohibit their employees and other interested parties (contractors, agents, etc.) from participating in public forums or discussion groups in which a conflict of interest might arise, or will at least insist that their employees and agents refrain from participating in any way that might create a conflict of interest.\n\nBoth the illegal and legal gambling industries often use shills to make winning at games appear more likely than it actually is. For example, illegal three-card monte and shell-game peddlers are notorious employers of shills. These shills also often aid in cheating, disrupting the game if the \"mark\" is likely to win. In a legal casino, however, a shill is sometimes a gambler who plays using the casino's money in order to keep games (especially poker) going when there are not enough players. The title of one of Erle Stanley Gardner's mystery novels, \"Shills Can't Cash Chips\", is derived from this type of shill. This is different from \"proposition players\" who are paid a salary by the casino for the same purpose, but bet with their own money.\n\nIn marketing, shills are often employed to assume the air of satisfied customers and give testimonials to the merits of a given product. This type of shilling is illegal in some jurisdictions, but almost impossible to detect. It may be considered a form of unjust enrichment or unfair competition, as in California's Business & Professions Code § 17200, which prohibits any \"unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising\".\n\nShills, or \"potted plants\", are sometimes employed in auctions. Driving prices up with phony bids, they seek to provoke a bidding war among other participants. Often they are told by the seller precisely how high to bid, as the seller actually pays the price (to himself, of course) if the item does not sell, losing only the auction fees. Shilling has a substantially higher rate of occurrence in online auctions, where any user with multiple accounts can bid on their own items. One detailed example of this has been documented in online auctions for used cars. Many online auction sites employ sophisticated (and usually secret) methods to detect collusion. The online auction site eBay forbids shilling; its rules do not allow friends or employees of a person selling an item to bid on the item, even though eBay has no means to detect if a bidder is related to a seller or is in fact the seller.\n\nIn his book \"Fake: Forgery, Lies, & eBay\", Kenneth Walton describes how he and his cohorts placed shill bids on hundreds of eBay auctions over the course of a year. Walton and his associates were charged and convicted of fraud by the United States Attorney for their eBay shill bidding.\n\nWith the proliferation of live online auctions in recent years, shill bidding has become commonplace. Some websites allow shill bidding by participating auctioneers. These auctioneers are able to see bids placed in real time and can then place counter bids to increase the amount. One Proxibid auctioneers' website states, \"At the request of the auction company, this auction permits bids to be placed by the seller or on the seller's behalf, even if such bids are placed solely for the purpose of increasing the bid.\"\n\nThe term can apply to journalists, commentators, and media outlets, who have vested interests in or associations with parties, and report in a way favorable to those interests. The term is often used by antiestablishment figures to denounce the media.\n\nA shill in a psychology experiment, or the like, is called a \"confederate\". In Stanley Milgram's experiment, in which the subjects witnessed people getting electric shocks, a confederate would pretend to be one of the experimental subjects who would receive the fake shocks, so that the real experimental subject would think that a draw of names from a hat was random. The confederate would always play the role of the learner, and the subject would be the teacher, and the subject would think that this was a random draw from a hat containing papers that say \"learner\" and \"teacher\".\n\nIn performance art, such as DECONference (Decontamination Conference), the confederates were called \"deconfederates\". When a large group of DECONference attendees were asked to remove all clothing prior to entry to the event, the deconfederates, planted among the attendees, would comply immediately with the request, causing all of the others to follow the orders and disrobe as well.\n\nPolice or military interrogators sometimes use undercover agents (called \"plants\") to assist with the interrogation of an individual or suspect. The plant can pose as a fellow inmate or internee, build a rapport and earn the confidence of the interviewee. The plant may subtly suggest that telling the interrogators what they want to know is the sensible or right thing to do. Even if no outright confessions are obtained, minor details and discrepancies that come out in supposedly innocent conversation can be used to chip away at the interviewee. Some plants are in reality inmates or prisoners of war who have been promised better treatment and conditions in return for helping with the interrogation; the character played by William Hurt in the film \"Kiss of the Spider Woman \"is an example of this. One notorious UK case is that of Colin Stagg, a man who was falsely accused of the murder of Rachel Nickell, in which a female police officer posed as a potential love interest to try to tempt Stagg to implicate himself.\n\nPuppet, vassal, quisling, or satellite states have been routinely used in exercises of foreign policy to give weight to the arguments of the country that controls them. Examples of this include the USSR's use of its satellites in the United Nations during the Cold War. These states are used to give the impression of legitimacy to domestic policies that are ultimately harmful to the population they control, while beneficial to the government that controls them.\n\nEven outside the spectrum of sovereign powers many multiparty democratic systems give foreign powers the capacity to influence political discourse through shills and pseudo sock-puppets. Thanks to the reliance of many political parties on external sources of revenue for campaigns it can be easy for a government or business to either choose which party it funds or to outright create one. This way they can either choose to support existing minority voices that echo their views or form their own, using their funds and usually semi-covert influence to make them a more prominent voice.\n\nAnother concept in foreign policy is seen in sovereign alliances. In these instances, an allied country acts on behalf of another's interests so that it appears that the original power does not want to get involved. This is useful in situations where there is little public support in the original country for the actions. This type of collusion is typically practiced between countries that share common goals and are capable of returning favours. An example of this may be Cuba's role during the Cold War, in sending active combat troops to wars in Africa when it was unpalatable for the USSR to do so.\n\nDuring covert operations or police investigations agents may routinely claim to be of political views or a part of an organization in order to gain the confidence of the people they wish to surveil. Sometimes this goes further with the agents participating in acts on behalf of the organizations they infiltrate or falsely represent as was the case during the Operations like Gladio and Chaos. Often the end goal is not just to gain information about the organization but to discredit them in the eyes of the public. However, these kinds of actions are more similar to false flag operations than typical undercover operations. In other examples, operatives may act in a manner they deem positive to assist an organization to which they cannot have overt ties.\n\n"}
{"id": "36335628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36335628", "title": "Soviet–Albanian split", "text": "Soviet–Albanian split\n\nThe Soviet–Albanian split refers to the worsening of relations between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) and the People's Socialist Republic of Albania, which occurred in the 1955–1961 period as a result of Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev's rapprochement with Yugoslavia along with his \"Secret Speech\" and subsequent de-Stalinization, including efforts to extend these policies into Albania as was occurring in other Eastern Bloc states at the time. The Albanian leadership under Enver Hoxha perceived Khrushchev's policies as contrary to Marxist–Leninist doctrine and his denunciation of Joseph Stalin as an opportunistic act meant to legitimize revisionism within the international communist movement. Occurring within the context of the larger split between China and the USSR, the Soviet–Albanian split culminated in the rupturing of relations in 1961.\n\nThe Communist Party of Albania (known as the Party of Labour of Albania after 1948) was founded in November 1941 in the context of the foreign occupation of the country, with the majority of its members including its leader, Enver Hoxha, having no connection to the Comintern. Historian Jon Halliday has commented that \"it was set up without any known direct contact with Moscow. It was not at all a 'Moscow creation' ... the bulk of the founding leadership were middle-class intellectuals on whom the strongest influences were \"Western\" intellectual traditions.\" Albania furthermore was the only country in Eastern Europe, except Greece, which had liberated itself without the presence of the Red Army on its soil. A combination of these factors led Stalin to initially have been \"both curious and suspicious about the only leader of a Communist regime in the Soviet bloc who escaped from any historical ties or contact with the Soviet Union.\" This, Halliday continues, \"was true not just of Hoxha as an individual, but of almost the entire leading group in Albania.\" Despite this, however, Hoxha was \"the quintessential Stalinist. Many of the descriptions Nikita Khrushchev used to denounce Josef Stalin ... could easily be applied to Enver Hoxha.\"\n\nFollowing Albania's liberation on November 29, 1944 the country's economic and foreign policies were dominated by its neighbor Yugoslavia under the leadership of Josip Broz Tito, and Albania became in the words of historian Miranda Vickers a \"sub-satellite.\" During this period ties with the Soviet Union remained limited, though formal diplomatic relations were established in December 1945.\n\nWithin the leadership of the Communist Party of Albania tensions arose between pro- and anti-Yugoslav factions and personalities, with the former increasingly coming under attack by Koçi Xoxe, the head of the pro-Yugoslav faction. Hoxha was threatened on the basis of his opposition to the pro-Yugoslav line, as Xoxe's final goal was to overthrow Hoxha and to incorporate Albania into Yugoslavia as its Seventh Republic. The Soviet–Yugoslav split in 1948, however, had allowed Albania to break from Yugoslav dominance, and it became the first state to side with the Information Bureau (better known in the West as the Cominform) with its resolution attacking the Yugoslav leadership for allegedly pursuing a road of nationalist deviation and capitalist restoration. From that point onwards relations between Albania and the Soviet Union \"remained quite close until March 5, 1953,\" when Stalin died. In the words of historian Nicholas C. Pano, \"by the beginning of 1949, Albania had progressed from the status of a sub-satellite to that of a full-fledged satellite of the Soviet Union.\" Albania became a member of Comecon in 1949 and the Warsaw Treaty upon its founding in 1955. In addition the Soviets built a submarine base at Vlora in 1952.\n\nIn his memoirs Hoxha recounts the apprehension he and others had about the post-Stalin leadership, just days after Stalin's death. \"The way in which the death of Stalin was announced and his funeral ceremony was organized created the impression ... that many members of the Presidium of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union had been awaiting his death impatiently.\" A meeting with Soviet leaders held in June that year further raised his suspicions about the intentions of the new leadership, as did a reduction in Soviet and Eastern Bloc aid to Albania early in 1954 as Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev \"seemed to believe that the high cost of aid to support Albania was not worth the return in terms of Soviet strategic interests in the country.\" Reacting to early post-Stalin Soviet pressure on the East European countries to pursue economic and political reforms, Albania announced slight changes in planning priorities and some willingness to improve state relations with Yugoslavia as the Soviets were doing. There was also a reshuffling of political portfolios in line with the Soviet re-emphasis on the principle of collective leadership.\n\nHoxha regarded Soviet pressure as acting in the service of ulterior, revisionist aims in an effort to unseat or otherwise undermine \"Stalinist\" leaders. Thus in a meeting with Khrushchev on the issue of collective leadership, he recalled that, \"Khrushchev told us that the other sister parties had been told of the Soviet 'experience' of who should be first secretary of the party and who prime minister in the countries of people's democracy. 'We talked over these questions with the Polish comrades before the congress of their party,' Khrushchev told us. 'We thrashed matters out thoroughly and thought that Comrade Bierut should remain chairman of the Council of Ministers and Comrade Ochab should be appointed first secretary of the party ...' Hence, right from the start Khrushchev was for pushing Bierut aside in the leadership of the party ... [the Soviets] were giving the green light for all the revisionist elements, who, up till yesterday, were wriggling and keeping a low profile, awaiting the opportune moments. Now these moments were being created by Khrushchev who, with his actions, stands and 'new ideas', was becoming the inspirer and organizer of 'changes' and 'reorganizations'.\"\n\nJon Halliday has noted that, \"On the surface, relations between Moscow and Tirana seemed good right up to the late 1950s\" but that Khrushchev's rapprochement with Yugoslavia in 1955 and his denunciation of Stalin in 1956 were the two main issues responsible for the deterioration of relations between the two states. In June 1954 Khrushchev sent a letter to the leaders of the parties of the Eastern Bloc in which the Cominform resolutions denouncing Yugoslavia in the 1948–49 period were criticized for allegedly forcing Tito and the rest of the Yugoslav leadership \"into the arms of the United States and Great Britain and had led to Yugoslavia's conclusion of a military pact with two NATO members.\" Hoxha, however, disagreed with this view, later writing that \"even if the Yugoslav leadership had been unjustly condemned in 1949, as Khrushchev was claiming, nothing could permit or justify its falling into the lap of imperialism.\"\n\nIn May 1955 Khrushchev led a Soviet delegation to the Yugoslav capital of Belgrade with the aim of rehabilitating Tito, a move which encouraged reformist and dissident trends in Eastern Europe. The Albanian government had received a letter two days before the Soviet delegation was to leave Moscow: in it, the Soviets requested that the Albanians approve a statement drawn up by Khrushchev in the name of the Information Bureau even though he had not convened it. The move was refused by the Albanians \"on the grounds that there had been no change in the line of the Yugoslav leadership since it had been condemned by the 1948 resolution of communist and workers' parties represented on the Bureau.\" On May 25 the Central Committee of the Party of Labour sent a letter to its Soviet counterpart stating among other things that, \"In our opinion such a hasty (and ill-considered) decision on an issue of great importance and of principle\" was conducted \"without first making a profound analysis together with all the parties interested in this issue.\" With only Albania among the Eastern Bloc states opposing Khrushchev's move, the Soviets succeeded in unilaterally rehabilitating Tito's standing within the international communist movement and apologized for past Soviet activities in relation to Yugoslavia.\n\nAt the Twentieth Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in February 1956 Khrushchev issued, in addition to his main report, his \"Secret Speech\" denouncing Stalin. Hoxha later remarked of the Congress that, in addition to its attack on Stalin, \"All the distortions of the major issues of principle, such as those about the character of our epoch, the roads of transition to socialism, peaceful coexistence, war and peace, the stand towards modern revisionism and towards imperialism, etc., etc., which later became the basis of the great, open polemic with modern revisionism, have their official beginning in Khrushchev's report to the 20th Congress ... we saw how the Khrushchevites, in order to consolidate their power, operated allegedly with 'a great party spirit', 'free from the fear of Stalin' ... Every good thing of the past was distorted, allegedly in light of the 'new situations', 'new developments', 'new roads and possibilities', in order to go ahead.\"\n\nA notable event at the Congress was the promotion of the policy of \"peaceful coexistence\" by Khrushchev, which officially was a policy to increase East-West collaboration against the threat of nuclear war, but which anti-revisionists believed \"was merely a way to divide the world in to spheres of influence inside which each side would enjoy unquestioned supremacy.\" One anti-revisionist author described Khrushchev's policy as follows: \"Khrushchev made it clear that he was prepared to give up international class struggle, renouncing on behalf of the colonial peoples any right to liberate themselves from oppression and reassuring capitalist governments by emphasising 'peaceful transition to socialism' or the Parliamentary road ...\" He then quoted Khrushchev as saying that \"'if any mad man wanted war, we [the Soviet Union and the United States], the two strongest countries in the world, would have but to shake our fingers to warn him off.'\"\n\nOne of Tito's preconditions for improving relations with the Soviets was for a Soviet-backed removal of \"Stalinist\" leaders in Eastern Europe, such as Mátyás Rákosi of Hungary and Valko Chervenkov of Bulgaria; Hoxha was also an obvious target for removal due to his intransigent position on Yugoslavia. The Soviets sought without success to force Hoxha to rehabilitate Koçi Xoxe. In April 1956 a party conference was held in Tirana: various delegates, inspired by Khrushchev's actions, attacked the line of the Party of Labour, calling for a review of the case of Xoxe along with other political and economic policies and phenomena. However, Hoxha entered the conference and managed to defeat these proposals. The Third Congress of the Party of Labour was convened a month later, electing a Central Committee and Politburo \"composed of staunch Hoxha loyalists\" while also demonstrating \"Hoxha's first public defiance of the Soviet Union\" by refusing to rehabilitate Xoxe and other persons linked with, or otherwise supportive of, rapprochement with Yugoslavia.\n\nAlthough the Third Party Congress did not openly criticize the 20th Party Congress of the CPSU in part because \"the real aims of [the Soviets] were still not fully recognized\" and there was a perceived need to keep intact the unity of the international communist movement, it did declare that the line of the Party of Labour which had been \"followed up to now has been correct\" and thus tacitly rejected Khrushchev's \"de-Stalinization\" policies.\n\nFollowing the Hungarian Uprising in November 1956 relations between Albania and the Soviet Union improved somewhat due to Yugoslavia's part in the event, which caused friction in Yugoslav-Soviet relations. On November 7 Hoxha wrote an article for \"Pravda\" denouncing Tito for encouraging the activity of the rebels, though the Soviets rebuked Hoxha for his harsh tone soon after. Soviet efforts to improve relations with Yugoslavia resumed before long, prompting a further deterioration in Soviet–Albanian relations.\n\nIn a February 1957 speech to a plenum of the Central Committee of the Party subsequently published in the newspaper \"Zëri i Popullit\", Hoxha defended Stalin's legacy and attacked the Yugoslavs (but not the Soviet leadership by name.) He added that, \"In blackening Stalin, the enemies are not concerned about him as a person, but their aim is to discredit the Soviet Union, the socialist system, and the international communist movement, consequently, to undermine the workers' faith in socialism.\"\n\nAs a result of the February plenum of 1957, which was seen as directly rebuffing many post-Stalin Soviet views, the Soviet leadership invited Hoxha to visit Moscow in April that year allegedly for consultations. Instead, Khrushchev called on Hoxha to rehabilitate and reinstate party members who had been sacked for their support of Yugoslavia and the theses of the 20th Party Congress; Hoxha refused. In response to this Khrushchev accused Hoxha of sectarianism and of being \"hell-bent on pursuing Stalinist policies.\" Hoxha later recalled the meeting as follows: Khrushchev advised the Albanians to improve their relations with Yugoslavia, to which Hoxha replied, \"We have always wanted to have good relations with Yugoslavia, but to put it bluntly, we do not trust the Yugoslav leaders, because they speak against the social system in our countries and are opposed to the foundations of Marxism-Leninism. In all their propaganda, they do not say one word against imperialism, on the contrary, [they] have joined the chorus of the Western powers against us.\" He once more said that the Yugoslav leadership failed to understand \"any of its grave mistakes and deviations,\" to which Khrushchev replied that Yugoslavia did not betray Marxism–Leninism though it had \"slipped\" from its positions. \"According to you,\" Khrushchev continued, \"we ought to return to what Stalin did, which caused all these things we know about.\" The meeting became increasingly acrimonious and when the subject of rehabilitating disgraced Albanian politicians came up Khrushchev eventually concluded, \"You are like Stalin who killed people,\" to which Hoxha replied, \"Stalin killed traitors, and we kill them, too.\"\n\nIn an effort to persuade the Albanian leadership to reconcile itself with the Soviets, the USSR gave a credit of $160 million ruble loan to Albania in late 1957 for Albania's Third Five-Year Plan and among other things forgave $105 million in past debts Albania owed the Soviet Union. These efforts proved unsuccessful in persuading the Albanians to change their course. James S. O'Donnell remarked that the Soviets, then in an early stage of the Sino-Soviet split, may have also tried to demonstrate Soviet \"generosity\" in an effort to counteract the amount of trade Albania was conducting with the People's Republic of China. Albania's passive trade balance with China had grown from 4.2% in 1955 to 21.6% in 1957.\n\nRelations between the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia deteriorated further following Tito's refusal to attend the 1957 International Conference of the Communist and Workers' Parties, the goal of which was to establish the general line and common positions of the international communist movement. As Hoxha later wrote, \"Khrushchev and Co. made feverish efforts not only to ensure that the League of Communists of Yugoslavia would take part as a 'party of a socialist country', but if possible also, to ensure that Tito would reach agreement with Khrushchev over the platform ... Each side wanted to exploit the meeting for its own aims: Khrushchev, to declare 'unity', even with painful concessions to satisfy and draw in Tito, while the latter, to urge the others to openly and finally abandon Marxism-Leninism, the struggle against modern revisionism and any principled stand.\" The Albanian delegation led by Hoxha worked with the Chinese and other like-minded delegations to the Conference in drafting a declaration alongside the CPSU and the pro-Soviet parties, with the resulting document being described by some Western observers as a compromise; historian William E. Griffith wrote that \"the statement leaned strongly toward the Russian position but usually was sufficiently ambiguous so that the Chinese and Albanians could (and did) interpret it in their favor.\" In a notable example, the Albanian and Chinese view that revisionism was the \"principal danger in the communist world\" existed alongside the Soviet view that the Twentieth Party Congress \"opened a new stage in the international communist movement,\" but despite this the declaration was considered overall by both Albania and China as an ideological victory. In Hoxha's view, \"The whole concern of the Soviet Khrushchevites was 'to preserve unity', to keep the socialist countries and the communist parties of different countries in check ... They retreated, held back temporarily, in order to gather strength and take their revisionist revenge in the future.\" O'Donnell states that after the Moscow Conference any trouble in Soviet–Albanian relations \"was kept strictly private\" until June 1960.\n\nAt the end of 1958 Comecon had begun to push for what was later termed an \"international socialist division of labor,\" in which Albania was relegated to \"the task of supplying the member states with agricultural and mineral raw materials.\" In May 1959 Khrushchev paid a visit to Albania with the aim of pressuring Albania's leadership into building up Yugoslav–Albanian and Soviet–Albanian ties and also to, in the words of historian Miranda Vickers, \"focus their economy on the growing of citrus fruits rather than concentrate on industrialization and the expansion of their oil industry ... Khrushchev's visit was clouded by an atmosphere of mistrust, which culminated in a hurried departure two days earlier than scheduled.\" According to Hoxha, Khrushchev displayed contempt for Albanian archaeology in Butrint and said to Rodion Malinovsky, the Soviet Defense Minister who was visiting the country with him, \"Look, how marvelous this is! An ideal base for our submarines could be built here. These old things [reference to archaeological findings] should be dug up and thrown into the sea ... We shall have the most ideal and most secure base in the Mediterranean. From here we can paralyze and attack everything.\" He was also said to have remarked to Hoxha to turn his country \"into a flourishing garden,\" suggested he make it an attractive holiday spot for Soviet tourists, and that rather than produce grain, Albania should focus on growing oranges for export. Khrushchev allegedly said, \"The Soviet Union has such an abundance of grain that the mice eat more than you can produce here.\"\n\nBy the beginning of 1960 Albania and China had concurred \"on such questions as Yugoslav revisionism, global strategy, and de-Stalinization\" and the Albanian leadership made \"little secret of their sympathies for the Chinese stand.\" With the Sino-Soviet split also deepening the Soviet leadership began applying its first signs of economic pressure on Albania in March 1960, stating its intention to alter a scholarship agreement for Albanians to study in the USSR in which the Soviets paid 60% of tuition costs and upkeep for the students; this threat was subsequently retracted on the eve of the Bucharest Conference in June that year, possibly in an attempt not to push Albania further into the Chinese orbit.\n\nEarly in June, however, Khrushchev met with Greek politician Sophocles Venizelos and reacted positively to the latter's suggestion of greater autonomy for Greeks in Albania; O'Donnell comments that, \"The obvious purpose of this discussion was to infuriate Enver Hoxha as Albanian-Greek relations were strained at this time. It became known that Khrushchev had hinted to Venizelos that the Soviet Union would not be against territorial and/or political concessions to the Greeks by the Albanians ... It is likely that Khrushchev used the meeting with Venizelos as a way to pay back Hoxha for snubbing him during his visit to Albania.\" Griffith comments that, \"Hoxha viewed this move by Khrushchev as an implicit threat to partition Albania – the overwhelming traditional fear of all Albanian nationalists.\"\n\nAt the opening of the Bucharest Conference on June 21, 1960, which was held on the occasion of the Third Congress of the Romanian Workers' Party, Hoxha was not among the various heads of communist parties and states in attendance; Politburo member Hysni Kapo took his place. The stated purpose of the Conference was to have \"the character of a preliminary meeting of the representatives of the communist and workers' parties, mainly for the purpose of 'exchanging opinions' and taking a joint decision on the date and place of a future meeting of the communist and workers' parties of the world.\" In his memoirs Hoxha describes the Conference as being a \"putsch\" and adds, \"The revisionist renegades needed another meeting of international communism to gain approval for their old plan for the final legitimization of modern revisionism,\" he did not attend because \"[we] suspected that the problem of the differences which had emerged between China and the Soviet Union would be discussed ... we had heard only one side of the argument, the Soviet side, and we were not acquainted with the objections of the Chinese ... They had to be thrashed out thoroughly, they had to be studied carefully, and time was required for this. Therefore our Party sent Comrade Hysni Kapo to Bucharest to discuss only the date of the future meeting,\" for decisions besides this date were not to be taken at the Conference itself.\n\nIn the words of Nicholas C. Pano, \"Khrushchev attempted to transform the Bucharest Conference into a communist summit meeting for the purpose of securing the condemnation of the Chinese\" with Kapo being the only representative of a European party \"to refrain from criticizing Peking, to attack Yugoslav revisionism, and to refuse to alter his stand on the Chinese and Yugoslav issues despite Soviet pressure. Khrushchev's hopes of bringing the Albanians to heel by means of peaceful persuasion were certainly shattered by the time the Bucharest Conference had come to an end.\" During the Conference Hoxha communicated with Kapo via radiogram, stating for instance on June 24, in response to a lengthy document distributed at the Conference by the Soviets attacking the Chinese, \"When you make your speech at the meeting you should declare: 'I am not authorized to make statements on these matters because our leadership knows that these matters will be discussed at the forthcoming Meeting of representatives of the parties, as we have all agreed.' ... We understand your difficult situation, but don't worry at all, for we are on the right road.\"\n\nAfter the Conference ended Khrushchev stepped up economic pressure on Albania, delaying a reply concerning 50,000 tons of requested grain to offset an acute food shortage caused by drought, and then issuing significant reductions in the amount of grain shipments. According to an Albanian account, the Soviet Union began to \"cut systematically all economic aid to Albania. It delayed and in some cases ceased altogether the delivery of goods and industrial equipment to Albania, refused to ship the grain our people were in urgent need of ... sell[ing it] not through clearing but in free currency ... stopped all supplies for the Albanian People's Army, from food and clothing to weapons and technical equipment whose delivery had been approved by the Joint Command of the Warsaw Treaty. The countries of Eastern Europe, too, set out on the course of aggravating relations with the PRA [People's Republic of Albania] and created a difficult situation by setting up a blockade on Albania jointly with the Soviet government.\"\n\nThe Soviets also attempted to threaten the Albanians with force; Andrei Grechko, then Commander-in-chief of the Warsaw Treaty forces, remarked to an Albanian military delegation that they would not get military equipment agreed upon beforehand, saying, \"You are only in the Warsaw Pact for the time being, anyway.\" Attempts were made to inoculate anti-government views in Albanian students studying abroad in the USSR and to convince the armed forces to go against the government. According to an Albanian account, the Soviet embassy in Albania also \"carried out intensive diversionist activity in order to create an atmosphere of uncertainty and ideological confusion about the correct line of the PLA [Party of Labour of Albania].\" In July a military plot headed by Soviet-trained Rear Admiral Teme Sejko was uncovered and the plotters executed.\n\nWithin the Party itself an effort was also made by pro-Soviet elements to overthrow Hoxha. In June Politburo member Liri Belishova visited China, giving a speech on June 6 which, in the words of Griffith, \"could hardly have made her pro-Soviet sympathies clearer,\" having been full of praise for the Soviet Union, with said praise being omitted when the text was published the day after in the Party newspaper \"Zëri i Popullit\". While in China Belishova made contact with the Soviet embassy there, telling them what the Chinese had told her without authorization from the Albanian Politburo. Belishova and Koço Tashko, Chairman of the Central Auditing Committee, shared leadership of the pro-Soviet faction. Foreign journalist Harry Hamm was told by Albanian functionaries that \"Belishova and Tashko had never made any secret of their pro-Soviet leanings, and that they had maintained their attitude long after the decision had been made to move closer to Peking's general line. Their stubborn attitude was bound to lead to their expulsion from the Party and to their being relieved of all their offices.\" Tashko, asked to speak on his own behalf, had his text prepared beforehand by the Soviet embassy and, having gotten confused, accidentally read the punctuation mark for a full stop in Russian amid a burst of laughter from those present. Both Belishova and Tashko were expelled from the Party in September.\n\nIn October 1960 a preparatory Commission for the upcoming International Conference of the Communist and Workers' Parties scheduled for November that year was held from October 1–21, with the Albanian delegation being led by Hysni Kapo and Ramiz Alia. Alia later recalled that \"the aim of the Soviets was to ensure that our Party did not come out against their party and Khrushchev, did not bring the fight out in the open, and speak about Bucharest and the contradictions which existed. To this end, they created around our delegation a harsh and dangerous atmosphere, in which open threats were combined with cunning flattery.\" Hoxha once again communicated via radiogram, writing to Kapo on October 13 that, \"We are not of the same opinion as those who are trying to smooth out the problems by means of phrases in resolutions or declarations ... \"We are for carrying the matter through to the end.\" If this is not understood, \"it means that the danger which the Khrushchev group represents for the world communist movement is not understood.\" It does not depend on us whether this group should continue in power or not, but \"it is essential that we, should expose this group with Khrushchev at the head, as they deserve\" ... we shall not allow ourselves to be impressed by those who say: 'How can one attack the glorious Soviet Union or the great Communist Party of Lenin for the faults of a few rascals?' We say: \"Precisely to defend the Soviet Union and the Party of Lenin, these 'rascals' must be exposed, and there must be no toning down of criticism or covering up of the deviationists.\"\"\n\nOn October 22, after the work of the Commission had ended, Khrushchev invited the delegates to a dinner which, according to Alia, was used \"to threaten those parties which might oppose the line of the Soviets in November.\" He gave as an example an exchange between Soviet Politburo member Yekaterina Furtseva and Kapo, in which the former asked, \"Are you Hysni Kapo?! I've heard so much about you ...\" Kapo replied, \"For good or bad?\" to which Furtseva stated, \"You have attacked the Soviet Union, but you are heading for trouble on that course,\" getting \"the reply she deserved\" from Kapo, with Alia further writing that \"her mission was just to transmit the signal. Throughout the whole dinner she did not speak to us again.\"\n\nFrom November 3–25 Enver Hoxha headed the Albanian delegation which would present its case at the Second International Conference of the Communist and Workers' Parties together with Kapo, Alia, and others. Alia later noted, \"The Soviets' aim was to ensure that Comrade Enver did not speak openly in Moscow, that, at the most, he should restrict himself to general criticisms on a theoretical plane ... they brought all-sided pressure to bear on our delegation ... even us[ing] the official reception for the celebration of November 7 against our delegation for these purposes.\" On November 5 a 125-page letter was sent from the Central Committee of the CPSU to its Chinese counterpart ignoring the existence of Albania as a socialist country and \"malign[ing] the Party of Labour of Albania.\" Later noting this letter in regards to China, Hoxha wrote that, \"They distributed this voluminous material against China before the meeting, in order to prepare the terrain and to brainwash the delegations of other parties, and to intimidate the Chinese, to compel them to take a moderate stand, if they would not submit. This anti-Chinese material did not surprise us, but it strengthened the conviction we had in the correctness of the line and the Marxist-Leninist stands of our Party in defence of the Communist Party of China.\"\n\nOn November 10, 1960 the second International Conference of the Communist and Workers' Parties was convened. As Hoxha recalled, \"In his speech Khrushchev expressed the revisionist views completely and attacked the Communist Party of China and the Party of Labour of Albania, as well as those who were going to follow these parties, but without mentioning any names ... wanted to keep all the communist and workers' parties of the world under his conductor's baton, under his dictate.\" On November 12 a private meeting was held between members of the Albanian delegation including Hoxha and members of the Soviet leadership, which \"showed that no compromise between them was possible.\" During the meeting Hoxha noted that \"[The Soviet ambassador to Albania] has asked to whom the Albanian army will be loyal. This question he addressed to our generals at the airport, in the presence of one of your generals. Our officers replied that our army would be loyal to Marxism-Leninism, to the Party of Labour and socialism.\" Khrushchev replied, \"If our ambassador said such a thing, he was foolish.\" Hoxha in turn replied, \"He was no fool. He committed this 'foolishness' following the Bucharest Meeting.\" The subject eventually came to the Vlora naval base, which was the subject of a Soviet–Albanian dispute to become acute months later. Khrushchev threatened Hoxha, saying, \"We can dismantle the base if you like.\" Hoxha replied, \"If you dismantle the base you will be making a big mistake. We have fought empty-bellied and bare-footed, but have never kowtowed to anybody.\" As the meeting's atmosphere became increasingly hostile Khrushchev declared, \"You flare up in anger. You spat on me; no one can talk to you.\" The meeting ended after Kapo declared, \"I do not agree that the talks should be conducted like this.\"\n\nHoxha delivered his speech to the Conference on November 16; he \"spoke of the tremendous Soviet pressures to which the Albanian party and government had been subjected after the Bucharest meeting ... The only crime his régime had committed, the Albanian leader added, was that it did not agree that the Chinese communist party should be summarily and unjustly condemned. For this it had been treated in a manner that was shabby, anti-Marxist and uncomradely. Hoxha's speech had a shattering effect on the Moscow gathering.\" Amongst other things Hoxha said that, according to Khrushchev, the Party of Labour and Albania itself \"should merely applaud and approve, but express no opinion of its own. But this is neither Marxist nor acceptable. Marxism-Leninism has granted us the right to have our say, and no one can take this from us, either by means of political and economic pressure, or by means of threats and names they might call us.\" According to Alia, Khrushchev \"tried to appear calm\" when first replying, reading his written text \"almost mechanically\" in regards to China but as soon as he began to reply to Hoxha's speech \"he lost his head and began to shout, scream and splutter.\" Khrushchev was said to have angrily remarked, \"Comrade Hoxha, you have poured a bucket of filth over me: you are going to have to wash it off again.\" Jon Halliday states that, \"On this occasion Hoxha truly succeeded in putting himself and Albania on the world map. His denunciation of Khrushchev made headlines round the world and even his harshest critics usually concede that Hoxha turned in an able performance and showed personal courage.\" In retirement Khrushchev later recalled the Conference and said that Hoxha \"bared his fangs at us even more menacingly than the Chinese themselves. After his speech, comrade Dolores Ibarruri, an old revolutionary and a devoted worker in the Communist movement, got up indignantly and said, very much to the point, that Hoxha was like a dog who bites the hand that feeds it.\"\n\nAlia relates that during the Conference a Soviet security officer had said to both him and Kapo that the Soviet leadership might have been contemplating Hoxha's assassination. For this reason, as Hoxha relates in his memoirs, \"The Khrushchevites were capable of anything and we took our own measures ... Hysni and Ramiz stayed on in Moscow, as they had to sign the declaration\" while Hoxha left the Soviet Union by train and \"arrived in Austria, went down by train through Italy and from Bari returned safe and sound to Tirana on our own aircraft and went directly to the reception organized on the occasion of the 28th and 29th of November.\"\n\nAt the Conference itself the Albanian delegation played a leading role together with its Chinese counterpart in giving the draft declaration \"Marxist-Leninist content\" and that, despite \"serious flaws\" (in the view of these delegations) \"the Declaration eventually signed by the 81 parties was a repudiation of revisionist theses ... [and] condemned the Yugoslav form of 'international opportunism which is a concentrated expression of the theories of modern revisionism.' ... the Soviet revisionists and the revisionists in other countries and parties demonstrated [in the view of Albania and China] their opportunistic character by completely disregarding the principles set forth in a document they had found it expedient to sign.\"\n\nOn December 19 Hoxha delivered his report to a plenum of the Central Committee of the Party concerning the Moscow Conference, remarking on the mutual defenses Albania and China provided for each other at Bucharest and Moscow and adding, \"In the future our Party will strengthen its ties and friendship with the Communist Party of China and the great Chinese people, always upholding the teachings of Marxism-Leninism and the correct line always pursued by the Central Committee of our Party.\"\n\nAt the Fourth Congress of the Party of Labour held in February 1961 Hoxha declared—although still not mentioning the Soviets by name—that, \"During the past few years, our Party and other Marxist-Leninist parties have waged a successful struggle against the views of modern revisionists ... But in spite of all the crushing blows and defeats it has received, revisionism ... remains the main danger to the international communist movement ... a resolute and uncompromising struggle must be waged against revisionism until it is utterly destroyed.\" According to an Albanian account, \"Right after the 4th Congress of the PLA, when it became clear that its attempts at imposing its will on Albania were futile, the Soviet leadership cut off all the credits envisaged in the agreements between the two countries.\" The Congress, which was the last one in which Soviet and East European representatives from other parties would attend, \"confirmed that the rift with Russia was almost complete and the alliance between China and Albania an accomplished fact.\"\n\nOn January 20 that year the Soviets announced that their oil specialists would be withdrawn within a seven- to ten-day period. The Albanians later claimed that the specialists had sabotaged Albania's oil installations before departing. Although Khrushchev had symbolically delivered blueprints for the Palace of Culture of Tirana on the occasion of his 1959 visit, all Soviet construction efforts on it ceased by April 1961. A shipment of materials for the Palace, which arrived in Durrës, was \"withdrawn at once on the pretext that the materials 'had been loaded by mistake and were not really intended for Albania.'\" On April 23 a Sino–Albanian trade agreement was concluded; Soviet First Deputy Premier Alexei Kosygin sent a letter five days later which effectively signaled an end to Soviet–Albanian trade agreements. Among other things it stated that \"It is understandable that the Albanian leadership cannot expect in the future that the USSR will help it as it has in the past, with aid from which only true friends and brothers have a right to benefit.\" On August 19 the Soviet ambassador to Albania left Tirana \"and was never to return.\" On August 26, \"only five days before the beginning of the fall semester,\" the Soviets canceled scholarships for Albanian students studying in the USSR; these students given a deadline to leave by October. An Albanian account of the economy during this period states that, \"The foreign specialists left unfinished about 40 important objects of the 2nd Five-year Plan in the industrial sector alone. Difficulties increased even more after the cessation of military aid. Thus in the first years of the 3rd Five-year Plan the fulfillment of the plan in many sectors of the economy was made very difficult and to a certain extent the development of the Albanian economy as a whole was impaired.\"\n\nMilitary pressure was stepped up still further; during summer \"the training of all Albanian officers, cadets, and noncoms in the Soviet Union or the East European satellite countries was brought to a stop. Since then, there has been not a single Albanian studying at a military academy in the Eastern Bloc. It has been impossible, therefore, for the Tirana Government to keep its army up-to-date on military theory.\" In March Albania had not been invited to attend a meeting of the Warsaw Treaty states. Hoxha later recalled that \"When we returned from Moscow [in November 1960], the provocations at the [Vlora submarine] base were increased and in order to exert pressure on and impress us, the Soviet deputy foreign minister, Firyubin, came to Tirana with two other 'deputies': the first deputy-chief of the General Staff of the Soviet Army and Navy, Antonov, and the deputy chief of the Supreme Staff of the Soviet Navy, Sergeyev. They came allegedly 'to reach agreement', but in fact they brought us an ultimatum: The Vlora base must be put completely and solely under Soviet command, which was to be subordinate to the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of the Warsaw Treaty.\"\n\nAn Albanian account describes the dispute as follows: \"By violating the formal Albanian-Soviet agreements signed in September 1957 an May 1959, the Soviet government did everything in its power to put under its control this Albanian base which at the same time served the defence of the socialist countries ... On April 5, 1961, in a letter addressed to the governments of the Soviet Union and the East-European states it resolutely reaffirmed that it accepted only one solution of the problem: the base of Vlora belonged to Albania and all the naval means that were its property should be handed over to Albanian crew as soon as possible. Any other solution was an act which would lead to the unilateral violation on the part of the Soviet Union of the existing Albanian-Soviet agreements of the years 1957 and 1959.\" In May 1961 the Soviets began dismantling the base and tried to seize the submarines, seizing some Albanian ships undergoing repairs at Sevastopol in the process. As the Albanian account describes it, \"The Soviet sailors and officers carried out numerous provocations, trying by all manner of means to create a pretext for the Soviet military intervention in Albania ... On May 26, 1961 it seized in a demonstrative manner 8 submarines, the floating base 'Kotelnikov', as well as the Albanian warships that were laid for repair in the port of Sevastopol. On June 5, 1961 the personnel of Soviet advisers left the base at Vlora, too.\" Hoxha's account is as follows: Admiral Vladimir Kasatonov of the Black Sea fleet \"came to Tirana with the mission of seizing not only the eight submarines ... but even the submarines which we had taken over earlier. We told him bluntly: Either you hand the submarines over to us according to the agreement, or within a short time (we set the date) you must withdraw immediately from the bay ... He did not hand over the submarines, but went to Vlora, boarded the command submarine and lined up the others in fighting formation. We gave orders to close the Sazan Narrows and to train the guns on the Soviet ships. Admiral Kasatonov, who had wanted to frighten us, was frightened himself. He was caught like a rat in a trap and if he attempted to implement his plan he might find himself at the bottom of the sea. In these conditions the admiral was obliged to take only the submarines with Soviet crews, and he sailed out of the bay back home with his tail between his legs.\"\n\nAt the Twenty-Second Congress of the CPSU in October that year Khrushchev openly attacked the Albanian leadership, proclaiming Hoxha a \"leftist nationalist deviationist\" and calling for his overthrow, declaring that, \"We are certain the time will come when the Albanian communists and the Albanian people will have their say, and then the Albanian leaders will have to answer for the harm they have done their country, their people and the cause of socialist construction in Albania.\" He further stated that \"The imperialists are always prepared to pay thirty pieces of silver to those who split the Communist ranks.\" To this Hoxha replied in a November 7 speech, \"the Albanian people and their Party of Labor will even live on grass if need be, but they will never sell themselves 'for 30 pieces of silver' ... They would rather die honourably on their feet than live in shame on their knees.\" Nicholas C. Pano noted that \"[Khrushchev's] pronouncements [at the Twenty-Second Congress], at least insofar as the Soviet leadership was concerned, had made the policies of de-Stalinization, peaceful coexistence, and reconciliation with Yugoslavia adopted at the Twentieth Congress of the CPSU binding upon the members of the communist system.\" Despite Albanian calls for the continued existence of state relations between the two countries, the Soviet government formally withdrew its ambassador on November 25 and on December 3 withdrew \"the whole personnel of its embassy and commercial representation from the PRA, while at the same time demanding that the personnel of the Albanian embassy and the Albanian commercial adviser should leave the territory of the Soviet Union.\" \"Thus,\" the Albanian account continues, \"the Khrushchev revisionist group, consistent in its line, cut off all relations with socialist Albania at a time when it maintained contacts with and was drawing ever closer to the most reactionary regimes of the world.\"\n\nIn a December 10 \"Zëri i Popullit\" article, Hoxha wrote that, \"The real cause\" of the break in diplomatic relations \"must be sought in the revisionist views of Khrushchev and in his anti-Marxist efforts to impose them on the other parties by any means ... with a view to silencing our Party, to subjugating it and giving a lesson to anyone that would dare to oppose him, Khrushchev extended the ideological disagreements to the field of state relations and began to behave with the PRA as towards an enemy country ... he aims to intimidate and subjugate the PLA, to shift it from its revolutionary Marxist-Leninist positions, to shake the confidence of our people in the PLA and its leadership, to upset the feelings of friendship of the Albanian people towards the Soviet Union ... But Khrushchev is trying in vain ... Under the leadership of the PLA, the Albanian people have scored historic victories in the course of these twenty years: they liberated the country from the fascist invaders and established the people's state power, reconstructed the war-ravaged country, liquidated the centuries-old backwardness and achieved great successes in the construction of socialist society ... Our Party is fighting for a great cause, for the truth of Marxism-Leninism ... On this course, marching shoulder to shoulder with the sister Marxist-Leninist parties and the fraternal peoples of the socialist countries, as well as with all the revolutionary forces of the world, our Party and people will score complete victory over the imperialist and revisionist enemies. Marxism-Leninism cannot be vanquished! Socialism and communism will triumph!\"\n\nIn his memoirs Khrushchev described the Albanian leadership as \"monsters,\" saying that, \"The rift which developed between the Soviet Union and Albania stemmed mainly from the Albanians' fear of democratisation.\" The downfall of Khrushchev in 1964 saw Hoxha write an article for \"Zëri i Popullit\" in which he stated that, \"Despite the fact that Khrushchev was the head of modern revisionism, his political liquidation as a person does not mean the liquidation of his political, ideological, economic and organizational course ... Khrushchevite revisionism is not dead, his ideology and policy expressed in the line of the 20th and 22nd Congresses of the CPSU are not liquidated.\" In the view of William Ash, writing in support of the Albanian position, \"The final proof of the correctness of Albania's characterisation of Soviet revisionism came with the invasion and military occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1968 – 'Khrushchevism without Khrushchev', since Brezhnev who succeeded the deposed revisionist leader followed the same line.\" An Albanian account discussing the invasion notes that, \"Albania resolutely denounced this act, calling it 'an aggression of the fascist type' which 'represented the greatest debasement of the honour and authority of the Soviet Union and the Soviet people on the part of the Khrushchevite revisionist Brezhnev-Kosygin clique' ... the Warsaw Treaty had completely been transformed from a means of defence into a means of aggression\" and that, having been \"de facto\" excluded from the Pact since 1961, \"on September 13, 1968, at an extraordinary session the People's Assembly of the People's Republic of Albania decided to denounce this Treaty and exonerate Albania from any obligation deriving from it.\" In the 1970s the alliance between Albania and China against perceived Soviet revisionism gradually began to break down, resulting in the Sino–Albanian split.\n\nWriting in 1988, Ramiz Alia reiterated the Albanian view that, \"The revisionist current most dangerous to the world communist movement has been and still is Soviet revisionism\" and that, \"To oppose the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, which had great political and theoretical authority, meant to isolate oneself, at least for a time, from most of the communist parties of the world. Precisely here lies the heroism of the Party of Labour of Albania, the majesty of its decision, and its courage and determination for the cause of Marxism-Leninism, for the cause of socialism and communism.\"\n\nIn July 1990, after the fall of the Eastern Bloc and political upheaval in Albania itself, Alia announced the restoration of diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union. In an official communiqué the Soviets \"attributed the normalisation [of diplomatic relations] to the better political climate in Europe, and the state radio reported that, as the Soviet Union was on course for reform, 'there has been a marked trend recently towards democratisation of Albanian society'.\" In June 1991 the ruling Party of Labour became the social-democratic Socialist Party, dropping its prior commitment to Marxism–Leninism, and in December 1991 the Soviet Union was dissolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "2103727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103727", "title": "Special appearance", "text": "Special appearance\n\nA special appearance is a term used in the American law of civil procedure to describe a civil defendant's appearance in the court of another state solely to dispute the personal jurisdiction of the court over that defendant. Prior to the advent of this procedure, defendants had to either appear in the other state's court to defend the case on the merits, or not show up in court at all, and then mount a collateral attack on any judgment rendered against them, when the plaintiff came to the defendant's state to collect on the judgment. In a legal catch-22, if the defendant appeared solely to contest jurisdiction, the court would then be permitted to assert jurisdiction based on the defendant's presence.\n\nIn response to the apparent inequity presented by this situation, most states have passed statutes permitting the defendant to make a special appearance in the courts of the state to contest jurisdiction, without further subjecting themselves to the jurisdiction of the court. The equivalent of such an appearance is possible in U.S. federal courts, for the defendant may make a motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction. Where a special appearance is permitted, the term general appearance is used to denote the normal type of appearance in court. A \"special appearance\" is in contrast to a \"general appearance\".\n\nBeginning in the late 1990's, adherents of the sovereign citizen's movement have attempted to use the special appearance to question the jurisdiction and competence of courts where the point is moot. The most prevalent use of the special appearance is in any criminal court, as special appearances are only recognized in the civil rules of procedure and the civil courts. Thus, the term special appearance has no meaning in the context of a criminal court, as anyone committing, or having been indicted for or charged with committing or otherwise alleged to have committed a criminal offense are de jure within the jurisdiction of the criminal courts, whatever their residence or national citizenship. \n\nThis type of special appearance is not to be confused with a first special appearance in which an attorney who has not had the opportunity to formally become a defendant's attorney of record appears on that person's behalf. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "35680726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35680726", "title": "Spring Creek raid", "text": "Spring Creek raid\n\nThe Spring Creek raid, also known as the Tensleep Murders or the Tensleep Raid, occurred in 1909 and was the last serious conflict during the Sheep Wars in Wyoming, as well as the deadliest sheep raid in the state's history. On the night of April 2, the sheepherder Joe Allemand and four of his associates were encamped along Spring Creek, near the town of Ten Sleep, when a group of seven masked cattlemen attacked them. It remains uncertain as to whether or not an exchange of gunfire took place between the two parties, but evidence suggests that Allemand and two of his men were executed while the remaining two escaped unharmed. Two sheep wagons were also destroyed by fire and about two dozen head of sheep were shot to death. Seven men were arrested for the crime, two of whom turned state's evidence and were acquitted. The rest were found guilty and sent to prison for sentences ranging from three years to life in prison. The conviction of the Tensleep murderers effectively put an end to the killings on the open range and exemplified the arrival of law and order in a region that still retained its rugged frontier environment after the end of the 19th century. Although there continued to be sheep raids in Wyoming into the 1910s, there were no more deaths.\n\nFor decades prior to 1909, sheepmen and cattlemen had been fighting for control of America's vast unsettled grasslands. The conflicts usually began as disputes over grazing rights, but the cattlemen also complained that the sheepmen destroyed the open range and made it unsuitable for cattle. For example, cattlemen claimed that sheepmen let their flocks overgraze, or that the sharp hooves of the sheep were cutting up the grass to a point where it wouldn't grow back. Sheepmen were also said to have polluted the water sources so badly that cattle could not drink from them without becoming sick. Generally, the cattlemen were the stronger of the two factions and they controlled the range by establishing a type of border called \"deadlines\" and hiring gunmen to prevent sheepherders from crossing them.\n\nAround 1908, the sheep and cattlemen's associations of Wyoming agreed to the establishment of a deadline in Big Horn County. Tensleep Creek made up at least part of the border; west of the creek was cattle country while the area to the east was for the sheepmen. However, not long after the agreement was in effect, the herder Joe Allemand and his partner, Joseph Emge, became some of the first to break it when they began moving their flocks across the deadline to a place near Worland for the winter season. Soon after, other sheepherders followed suit \"until the division [deadline] was practically no division, and no range was safe to the cattlemen.\" Together, Allemand and Emge owned three ranches in the area east of the deadline, all near the mouth of Spring Creek and Tensleep Creek. Emge, a German immigrant, was formerly a cattlemen, but he \"abandoned the business, and went over to the enemy\" sometime shortly after the turn of the century. According to author George C. Morris, Allemand was well-liked and considered a peaceful man that had been involved in the sheep trade for years, but Emge was more aggressive and probably the one who decided to lead the sheep across cattle country, being that he was the trail master. In this case, Emge was well aware of the consequences of passing through cattle country with a herd of sheep, so, during the first drive, he had a local deputy sheriff accompany him. According to Morris, the deputy prevented the cattlemen from attacking, but when Emge requested assistance for the drive back home he was declined. The sheriff warned Emge to detour around the cattle ranges, but he failed to follow the advice, possibly because taking the detour was a longer journey. Instead of relying on the police, Emge purchased two automatic rifles with 1,000 rounds of ammunition and openly said they were for \"running the cattlemen off the range.\"\n\nThe Allemand-Emge party consisted of five men, including Allemand and Emge, two sheep wagons, several sheep dogs, and between 2,500 and 12,000 head of sheep, depending on varying sources. The other three men were hired hands named Jules Lazier, Allemand's nephew, Pierre Cafferal and Charles \"Bounce\" Helmer. The herd was divided into two groups, one on each side of Spring Creek, with a wagon and at least one dog attached to each one. For the first thirty miles or so the journey was uneventful, but, on April 2, the party met up with a pair of friends, who lived nearby, and stopped to have dinner with them. Allemand also telephoned his wife sometime during the drive, to tell her that he would be home soon. According to one source, some of Emge's enemies were listening in on the phone call and were able to plan an attack based on the information. When dinner was over it was already dark, so the party decided to camp for the night and continue on in the morning. The location of the camp was about a half day's ride from the deadline and safety, but also near the Keyes Ranch, where the raiders had assembled. The raiders, who were later identified as George Saban, Herbert Brink, Albert Keyes, Charles Farris, Ed Eaton, Tommy Dixon, and Milton Alexander, rode out from the ranch sometime that night and found the sheepherders' camp soon after. At least half of the group were wealthy cattlemen. George Saban, the leader of the group, was the owner of the Bay State Cattle Company, one of the largest in Wyoming, and already known to the public for having led the lynch mob that raided the Big Horn County jail in 1903, where two prisoners and a deputy sheriff were killed.\n\nThere were two other cattlemen in the area as well, Porter Lamb and Fred Greet, who were camping in a tent within 400 yards of the Allemand-Emge camp, on land that was part of the Lamb Ranch. According to Morris: \"[Lamb and Greet] were awakened by staccato cracks of automatic rifles and the glimmering starlight made indistinctly visible moving shadows stepping swiftly about in the haze, punctured with spitting flame flashes when the weapons spoke. Ultimately the firing ceased, then followed the flare of burning sheep wagons. A chorus of galloping hoofs- then silence.\" Lamb and Greet were the ones who first discovered the remains of the sheepherders on the following morning. Morris wrote: \"When dawn came Lamb and Greet stood aghast at the vendetta vengeance that had been taken. In front of the wagon ruins Allemand lay face upward with bullet holes in his neck and side, to show where deadly soft-nosed missiles took his life. In the charred still-smoking embers were two baked bodies, subsequently identified as Emge, the daring, and Jules Lazier, a herder. 'Bounce' Helmer and Pierre Cafferal, two herders in the wagon on the other side of the creek, escaped through the leniency of the raiders and it is believed their lives were spared because Helmer's father is of the cattlemen and a leader among them.\" Although some accounts vary, it is generally believed that the group of raiders snuck up to the Allemand-Emge camp, split in two, and then began shooting at the flocks or advancing on the wagons. After that they called on the herders to surrender, but when Allemand came out he was shot down in cold blood. The raiders then fired into the wagons and it was during this time that Emge and Lazier were killed while Cafferal and Helmer were captured and tied up with rope. However, the latter two men were either freed by the raiders later on, as Morris claims, or they were able to untangle the ropes and free themselves, as another source says.\n\nCafferal and Helmer went straight from the camp to alert the police, who organized a posse, which arrived at the crime scene on the next day. Overall, Allemand, Emge, and Lazier were killed along with two of their dogs and twenty-five sheep. The rest of the herd was scattered and both wagons were burned. Cafferal and Helmer had suspicions about who had attacked their camp, but all of the raiders wore masks and therefore could not be positively identified by the survivors' testimony alone.\n\nThe Tensleep Murders shocked the people in the surrounding communities, particularly the sheepmen, so the Wyoming Wool Growers' Association offered a large reward for the capture of the murderers or information that led to it. The Wyoming Wool Growers' put up a bounty $5,000, which was supplemented by $2,000 from the National Wool Growers' Association, $1,000 from Big Horn County, and another $500 from the state of Wyoming. In Morris' words; \"the sheepmen played upon the cupidity of men and balanced golden gains in rewards against silence and fear of punishment.\" Sheep raiders had never been convicted in a Wyoming court before so all of the raiders assumed they had nothing to fear. In the days that followed, Brink and Dixon bragged about committing the murders until one of their friends, William \"Billy\" Goodrich, informed Sheriff Felix Alston in Basin. Goodrich told the sheriff the identities of all the men involved and he then told either Brink or Dixon that if they wanted to help the rest of the raiders then they had better surrender before the grand jury met later that month. At that point, Keyes and Farris took the advice and surrendered to Sheriff Alston. Then, Alston, Goodrich, Keyes, and Farris had a meeting in Sheridan with Governor Bryant B. Brooks and a few Wyoming attorneys. There, Keyes and Farris made a full confession with the promise that they'd be pardoned and safely escorted out of the state after the trial. None were eligible for the reward. Warrants were issued for the arrest of the other five raiders, Saban, Brink, Eaton, Dixon and Alexander, and they were hastily detained without any trouble on May 3.\n\nAround this time, a man name \"Billy\" Garrison committed suicide because of his involvement in the case. Like Goodrich, Garrison was one of the men Dixon and Brink bragged too so, instead of testifying against his friends, he rode to a place five miles from his home, the Goodrich Ranch, and shot himself. Garrison's death was officially determined to have been caused by suicide, but there is a possibility that the cattlemen wanted to silence him before a trial could begin. Morris wrote the following: \"It was a season of suppressed seething that threatened to boil over at any moment. Feeling was intense when it was known that Farris and Keyes had confessed, for that is one of the unpardonable offenses of the range. In the history of Big Horn County only three grand juries have ever been assembled because of the reluctance or refusal of witnesses summoned to give testimony that would be inadmissible in courts of law. That it went hard against the grain is eloquently verified by the suicide of 'Billy' Garrison. He lived at the Goodrich place and had been told things by Brink and Dixon. He perjured himself loyally before the grand jury, then drove to a ranch some five miles distant from the Goodrich home, put his horse up in the barn and shot himself to death. It was his conception of loyalty. Rather than send his friends to death he went to his own bravely.\"\n\nThe trial was held in Basin. The remaining five raiders quickly gave in and confessed like Keyes and Farris or pleaded guilty. Brink was the first to be tried. The testimony of Keyes, Farris, and Goodrich convinced the jury that he was almost solely responsible for the deaths. Farris' testimony was actually a direct accusation that Brink shot Allemand. Morris quoted the following from the state's records: \"I heard Brink shout: 'Show a light and come out,'... A man appeared at the front of the wagon. 'Hands up!' cried Brink. The man's hands were in the air as he came towards us. Then Brink said: 'This is a hell of time o' night to come up with your hands in the air!' There was a shot. Who fired it? Herbert Brink.\" Brink was sentenced to hang for first degree murder, but it was later reduced to life in prison at the Wyoming State Penitentiary in Rawlins. Saban and Alexander both admitted to second degree murder and were sentenced to twenty-five years in prison while Dixon and Eaton each received three years imprisonment for arson. Morris says that the majority of the people of Wyoming were aligned with the cattlemen so, on November 20, 1909, when the raiders were to begin their sentences, Basin citizens crowded the train station to say goodbye to the raiders and give them gifts, such as blankets. Morris notes that nobody was waiting to greet Farris, Keyes, and Goodrich when they left. All three sold their belongings and headed west with a deputy sheriff, who escorted them to the state border.\n\nAs for the five prisoners, Eaton died in state custody, Dixon was paroled in 1912, Saban escaped in 1913 and was never recaptured, and Brink and Alexander were paroled in 1914. The conviction of the Tensleep Murderers brought some peace to Wyoming's open range. Because the state's government was finally making convictions, cowboys became reluctant to shoot people over grazing rights, knowing that now they could be held accountable for it. One of the prosecutors in the case, Will Metz, summarized the meaning of the verdicts by saying that \"it is significant of the beginning of a new era, of a period where lawlessness in any form will be no more tolerated [in Wyoming] than in the more densely settled communities of the east.\" A monument now marks the site of the raid.\n\nIn 1911, the area where the murders occurred became part of Washakie County.\n\n"}
{"id": "30579186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30579186", "title": "Subprefect", "text": "Subprefect\n\nA Subprefect is the executive of a subprefecture. The subprefect serves under the municipality's prefect. \n"}
{"id": "1968559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1968559", "title": "Substitution principle (sustainability)", "text": "Substitution principle (sustainability)\n\nThe substitution principle in sustainability is the maxim that processes, services and products should, wherever possible, be replaced with alternatives which have a lower impact on the environment. An example of a strong, hazard-based interpretation of the principle in application to chemicals is: \"that hazardous chemicals should be systematically substituted by less hazardous alternatives or preferably alternatives for which no hazards can be identified\".\n\nThe principle has historically been promoted by environmental groups. The concept is becoming increasingly mainstream, being a key concept in green chemistry and a central element of EU REACH regulation. Critics of the principle claim it is very difficult to implement in reality, especially in terms of legislation.\n\nNonetheless, the concept is an important one and a key driver behind identifying Substances of Very High Concern in REACH and the development of hazardous substance lists such as the SIN List and the ETUC Trade Union Priority List. EU-funded projects such as SubsPort are under development to aid the identification and development of safer substitutes for hazardous chemicals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209812", "title": "Supersedeas bond", "text": "Supersedeas bond\n\nA supersedeas bond, also known as a defendant's appeal bond, is a type of surety bond that a court requires from an appellant who wants to delay payment of a judgment until the appeal is over.\n\nAn appellant's bond to stay execution on a judgment during the pendency of the appeal. Fed. R. Civ. P. 62(d); Fed. R. App. P. 8(b). -- Often shortened to \"supersedeas\".\n\nThis is a feature of common law, and in particular the American legal system. In most European countries an appeal leads to an automatic stay of execution, unless the judge expressly ordered immediate execution.\n\nAccording to Black's Law Dictionary a supersedeas bond (also known as an \"appeal bond\") is:\n\nAfter litigation and a civil court ruling, the losing party can appeal against the judgment. At this point, both the plaintiff and defendant could have similar kinds of concerns. An appeal takes time and can be dragged out in some cases for many years. After the case (and any other processes) is finally decided, whichever party wins will perhaps be more \"out of pocket\" from its costs. Also time will have passed, and the losing party may be bankrupt or have used the time to frustrate any potential future payments in the event of losing.\n\nTherefore, it is often either a requirement of the law, or a possible point in a ruling, that prior to commencing its appeal processes, the losing party must provide a surety bond – money it pays to the court or a third party, to demonstrate its good faith, intention and commitment to meeting the ruling if it loses, and in some cases to show that their appeal is not frivolous or merely a tactic to delay or avoid payment. This is known as a supersedeas (or \"appeal\") bond, and shows that they can and will cover the damages or fees awarded – including any additional costs of the appeal.\n\nThe bond may not be - and often is not – the exact value of the ruling. In some cases it is significantly larger since it is planned to cover interest or other costs which may arise on appeal.\n\nA supersedeas bond is often paid in full – and may be handled via insurance or underwriting in some cases.\n\nThe amount and availability of a supersedeas bond depends on state regulations and case specifics. \n\nIn New Jersey, the posting of a bond is not required to appeal a decision. However, if the party wishes to stay a judgment during the appeal, a motion must be made with the Superior Court, and the Court can require the posting of a bond or cash deposit under R.2:9-5 and R.2:9-6. The same rule applies in Delaware under the State Constitution as well as the court rules.\n\nArizona Rules of Civil Appellate Procedure, Rule 7, provides that \"except in cases involving custody of children,\" an appellant may obtain a stay on a lower court judgment and all other further proceedings by filing a supersedeas bond in the Superior Court. ARCAP 7(a)(1).\n\nIn California, for instance, the supersedeas bond amount must be 150% of the judgment amount, whereas in Florida, the amount may include two years of statutory interest for those fees.\n\nIn Florida, the amount of a supersedeas bond is limited to no more than $50 million per appellant.\n\nIn Texas, the amount of a supersedeas bond (referred to as \"security for judgments pending appeal\" in the Texas Civil Practice and Remedies Code) is determined as follows:\n\nObtaining a supersedeas bond may appear to be judicial red tape; however, it serves the best interest of the defendant and plaintiff. The appellant uses a supersedeas bond to stay the execution of the judgment, meaning appellant does not have to pay the full amount of the judgment until the appellate court makes a ruling and then only if the ruling is to affirm the judgment. A surety bond also replaces the need for collateral. The plaintiff, or party to whom the money judgment is awarded, is fully protected by the bond and ensured payment, that is if the appealing party can afford the bond. \n\n"}
{"id": "25679899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25679899", "title": "Sweethearting", "text": "Sweethearting\n\nSweethearting in the retail loss prevention industry means theft by employees at the cash register, by giving away merchandise to a \"sweetheart\" customer (friend, family, fellow employee). Cashiers can do it in numerous ways, including:\n\nSweethearting is the most common type of employee theft.\n\nMost methods of stopping sweethearting include physical supervision of the cashier or installation of software that detects sweethearting, which can be difficult to do.\nCommon countermeasures include use of CCTV surveillance cameras and security guards checking customer receipts at exits. A modern, well-implemented and tightly managed retail management system enables store management to track which cashiers may ring up unusually high amounts of merchandise known to be attractive to thieves.\n"}
{"id": "38929531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38929531", "title": "Trial of Fifty", "text": "Trial of Fifty\n\nThe Trial of Fifty (, or Case of Fifty) was a series of three political trials, beginning on 29 March 1959 with the jailing of Angolan nationalist prisoners in Portuguese Angola. The period ended on 24 August of that year with the final imprisonments. The name refers to the fact that Joaquim Pinto de Andrade had sent to his brother living abroad, Mário Pinto de Andrade, a pamphlet denouncing the imprisonment of 50 nationalists. This denunciation was disseminated, informing the world of what was occurring in Angola, and revealing the true intentions of the PIDE (Policia Internacional e de Defesa do Estado), which was to prevent news of the jailings from coming to international attention and prevent drawing attention to the misdeeds of the Salazar regime. The news of the jailing of these 50 nationalists also alerted other members of the independence movement to their dangerous situation, leading them to evade capture and setting the scene for the eventual Angolan War of Independence which began 4 February 1961, when Angolan nationalists launched attacks against jails holding political prisoners.\n"}
{"id": "28363331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28363331", "title": "Truth-seeking", "text": "Truth-seeking\n\nTruth-seeking processes allow societies to examine and come to grips with past crimes and atrocities and prevent their future repetition. Truth-seeking often occurs in societies emerging from a period of prolonged conflict or authoritarian rule. The most famous example to date is the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, although many other examples also exist. Most commonly these are carried out by official truth and reconciliation commissions as a form of restorative justice, but there are other mechanisms as well.\n\nThrough a truth-seeking process, actors in a country are able to investigate past abuses and seek redress for victims and their families. Such investigations go beyond simply identifying guilty parties or individuals, but may investigate root causes, patterns of suffering, and social impact as well as events in individual cases, such as disappearances.\n\nBy seeking to investigate such questions with a high degree of professionalism and commitment, truth-seeking processes seek to create long-lasting public impact, often through the publication of a public report. Such reporting helps expose the facts of violations and suffering, which are often otherwise denied, and minimize possibilities of revisionism in the future.\n\nGiven that truth-seeking requires both considerable time and resources to properly tackle investigations and victims’ needs, local community and regional representatives, civil society organizations, NGOs and aid agencies, and governmental and judicial entities play different roles in this process.\n\nMany steps taken in a truth-seeking process are based on the premise of a right to truth. The right to truth entails that victims and communities affected by past crimes have the right to know the identity of suspected perpetrators consistent with the rights of the suspects. According to the International Center for Transitional Justice: \"Any person who has suffered atrocities has the unalienable right to know who is responsible; any family whose members have disappeared has the basic right discover their fate and whereabouts; every society where these crimes have taken place have the right to learn their history without lies or denial.\"\n\nThe right to truth is an emerging principle in customary international law. It has been recognized in the United Nations Principles on Impunity and subsequent UN materials, and the UN has declared March 24 to be the \"International Day for the Right to the Truth Concerning Gross Human Rights Violations and for the Dignity of Victims\" in memory of Archbishop Oscar Romero. The right to truth has also been proclaimedby regional bodies such as the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, and in some national courts.\n\nFrequently used tactics during truth-seeking include the protection of evidence, collection of extensive victim data and testimony, the opening and maintenance of state information and public archives, and the publication of comprehensive reports. To implement such practices, truth commissions are often established to represent voices of victims. Such commissions are typically independent in nature and focus on accountability for past crimes, the root causes for the conflict and constructing historical narratives countering revisionism of the past. Policy recommendations issued by commissions often lead to a call for national reforms and further transitional justice initiatives, such as reparations, vetting and prosecutions.\n\nOfficial truth commissions (often called truth and reconciliation commissions) have taken place in many countries, including South Africa, Peru, Timor-Leste, Liberia, the Solomon Islands, and South Korea. Most recently truth commissions have begun to be implemented in developed countries such as Canada and Germany.\n\nUnofficial or local truth-seeking projects became popular in the 1980s and 1990s in Latin America, when community organizations such as churches and academic institutions documented human rights violations and issued reports following the end to military rule. Though unofficial, such efforts from civil society often serve to pave the way for or complement state- led transitional justice initiatives, and sometimes produce superior results, as in Guatemala. Unofficial truth-seeking initiatives have also taken place more recently at the local level in Northern Ireland, the United States, South Korea, and elsewhere. Calls for truth-seeking processes continue to be debated in other countries, such as Cambodia and Colombia.\n\n"}
{"id": "910810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=910810", "title": "Two Treatises of Government", "text": "Two Treatises of Government\n\nTwo Treatises of Government (or Two Treatises of Government: In the Former, The False Principles, and Foundation of Sir Robert Filmer, and His Followers, Are Detected and Overthrown. The Latter Is an Essay Concerning The True Original, Extent, and End of Civil Government) is a work of political philosophy published anonymously in 1689 by John Locke. The \"First Treatise\" attacks patriarchalism in the form of sentence-by-sentence refutation of Robert Filmer's \"Patriarcha\", while the \"Second Treatise\" outlines Locke's ideas for a more civilized society based on natural rights and contract theory.\n\nThis publication contrasts former political works by Locke himself. In \"Two Tracts on Government\", written in 1660, Locke defends a very conservative position; however Locke never published it. In 1669 Locke co-authored the Fundamental Constitutions of Carolina, which endorses aristocracy, slavery and serfdom.\n\nKing James II of England (VII of Scotland) was overthrown in 1688 by a union of Parliamentarians and the stadtholder of the Dutch Republic William III of Oranje-Nassau (William of Orange), who as a result ascended the English throne as William III of England. This is known as the Glorious Revolution, also called the Revolution of 1688. Locke claims in the \"Preface\" to the \"Two Treatises\" that its purpose is to justify William III's ascension to the throne, though Peter Laslett suggests that the bulk of the writing was instead completed between 1679–1680 (and subsequently revised until Locke was driven into exile in 1683). According to Laslett, Locke was writing his \"Two Treatises\" during the Exclusion Crisis, which attempted to prevent James II from ever taking the throne in the first place. Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 1st Earl of Shaftesbury, Locke's mentor, patron and friend, introduced the bill, but it was ultimately unsuccessful. Richard Ashcraft, following in Laslett's suggestion that the \"Two Treatises\" were written before the Revolution, objected that Shaftesbury's party did not advocate revolution during the Exclusion Crisis. He suggests that they are instead better associated with the revolutionary conspiracies that swirled around what would come to be known as the Rye House Plot. Locke, Shaftesbury and many others were forced into exile; some, such as Sidney, were even executed for treason. Locke knew his work was dangerous—he never acknowledged his authorship within his lifetime.\n\n\"Two Treatises\" was first published, anonymously, in December 1689 (following printing conventions of the time, its title page was marked 1690). Locke was unhappy with this edition, complaining to the publisher about its many errors. For the rest of his life, he was intent on republishing the \"Two Treatises\" in a form that better reflected his meaning. Peter Laslett, one of the foremost Locke scholars, has suggested that Locke held the printers to a higher \"standard of perfection\" than the technology of the time would permit. Be that as it may, the first edition was indeed replete with errors. The second edition was even worse, and finally printed on cheap paper and sold to the poor. The third edition was much improved, but Locke was still not satisfied. He made corrections to the third edition by hand and entrusted the publication of the fourth to his friends, as he died before it could be brought out.\n\nThe \"Two Treatises\" begin with a Preface announcing what Locke hopes to achieve, but he also mentions that more than half of his original draft, occupying a space between the \"First\" and \"Second Treatises\", has been irretrievably lost. Peter Laslett maintains that, while Locke may have added or altered some portions in 1689, he did not make any revisions to accommodate for the missing section; he argues, for example, that the end of the \"First Treatise\" breaks off in mid-sentence.\n\nIn 1691 \"Two Treatises\" was translated into French by David Mazzel, a French Huguenot living in the Netherlands. This translation left out Locke's \"Preface,\" all of the \"First Treatise\", and the first chapter of the \"Second Treatise\" (which summarised Locke's conclusions in the \"First Treatise\"). It was in this form that Locke's work was reprinted during the 18th century in France and in this form that Montesquieu, Voltaire and Rousseau were exposed to it. The only American edition from the 18th century was printed in 1773 in Boston; it, too, left out all of these sections. There were no other American editions until the 20th century.\n\n\"Two Treatises\" is divided into the \"First Treatise\" and the \"Second Treatise\". The original title of the \"Second Treatise\" appears to have been simply \"Book II,\" corresponding to the title of the \"First Treatise\", \"Book I.\" Before publication, however, Locke gave it greater prominence by (hastily) inserting a separate title page: \"An Essay Concerning the True Original, Extent and End of Civil Government.\" The \"First Treatise\" is focused on the refutation of Sir Robert Filmer, in particular his \"Patriarcha\", which argued that civil society was founded on a divinely sanctioned patriarchalism. Locke proceeds through Filmer's arguments, contesting his proofs from Scripture and ridiculing them as senseless, until concluding that no government can be justified by an appeal to the divine right of kings.\n\nThe \"Second Treatise\" outlines a theory of civil society. Locke begins by describing the state of nature, a picture much more stable than Thomas Hobbes' state of \"war of every man against every man,\" and argues that all men are created equal in the state of nature by God. From this, he goes on to explain the hypothetical rise of property and civilization, in the process explaining that the only legitimate governments are those that have the consent of the people. Therefore, any government that rules without the consent of the people can, in theory, be overthrown.\n\nThe \"First Treatise\" is an extended attack on Sir Robert Filmer's \"Patriarcha\". Locke's argument proceeds along two lines: first, he undercuts the Scriptural support that Filmer had offered for his thesis, and second he argues that the acceptance of Filmer's thesis can lead only to slavery (and absurdity). Locke chose Filmer as his target, he says, because of his reputation and because he \"carried this Argument [\"jure divino\"] farthest, and is supposed to have brought it to perfection\" (1st Tr., § 5).\n\nFilmer's text presented an argument for a divinely ordained, hereditary, absolute monarchy. According to Filmer, the Biblical Adam in his role as father possessed unlimited power over his children and this authority passed down through the generations. Locke attacks this on several grounds. Accepting that fatherhood grants authority, he argues, it would do so only by the act of begetting, and so cannot be transmitted to one's children because only God can create life. Nor is the power of a father over his children absolute, as Filmer would have it; Locke points to the joint power parents share over their children referred to in the Bible. In the \"Second Treatise\" Locke returns to a discussion of parental power. (Both of these discussions have drawn the interest of modern feminists such as Carole Pateman.)\n\nFilmer also suggested that Adam's absolute authority came from his ownership over all the world. To this, Locke responds that the world was originally held in common (a theme that will return in the \"Second Treatise\"). But, even if it were not, he argues, God's grant to Adam covered only the land and brute animals, not human beings. Nor could Adam, or his heir, leverage this grant to enslave mankind, for the law of nature forbids reducing one's fellows to a state of desperation, if one possesses a sufficient surplus to maintain oneself securely. And even if this charity were not commanded by reason, Locke continues, such a strategy for gaining dominion would prove only that the foundation of government lies in consent.\n\nLocke intimates in the \"First Treatise\" that the doctrine of divine right of kings (\"jure divino\") will eventually be the downfall of all governments. In his final chapter he asks, \"Who heir?\" If Filmer is correct, there should be only one rightful king in all the world—the heir of Adam. But since it is impossible to discover the true heir of Adam, no government, under Filmer's principles, can require that its members obey its rulers. Filmer must therefore say that men are duty-bound to obey their present rulers. Locke writes:\nI think he is the first Politician, who, pretending to settle Government upon its true Basis, and to establish the Thrones of lawful Princes, ever told the World, That he was \"properly a King, whose Manner of Government was by Supreme Power, by what Means soever he obtained it\"; which in plain \"English\" is to say, that Regal and Supreme Power is properly and truly his, who can by any Means seize upon it; and if this be, to be \"properly a King\", I wonder how he came to think of, or where he will find, an \"Usurper\". (1st Tr., § 79)\nLocke ends the \"First Treatise\" by examining the history told in the Bible and the history of the world since then; he concludes that there is no evidence to support Filmer's hypothesis. According to Locke, no king has ever claimed that his authority rested upon his being the heir of Adam. It is Filmer, Locke alleges, who is the innovator in politics, not those who assert the natural equality and freedom of man.\n\nIn the \"Second Treatise\" Locke develops a number of notable themes. It begins with a depiction of the state of nature, wherein individuals are under no obligation to obey one another but are each themselves judge of what the law of nature requires. It also covers conquest and slavery, property, representative government, and the right of revolution.\n\nLocke defines the state of nature thus:\n\nTo properly understand political power and trace its origins, we must consider the state that all people are in naturally.\nThat is a state of perfect freedom of acting and disposing of their own possessions and persons as they think fit within the bounds of the law of nature. People in this state do not have to ask permission to act or depend on the will of others to arrange matters on their behalf. The natural state is also one of equality in which all power and jurisdiction is reciprocal and no one has more than another. It is evident that all human beings—as creatures belonging to the same species and rank and born indiscriminately with all the same natural advantages and faculties—are equal amongst themselves. They have no relationship of subordination or subjection unless God (the lord and master of them all) had clearly set one person above another and conferred on him an undoubted right to dominion and sovereignty.\n\nThe work of Thomas Hobbes made theories based upon a state of nature popular in 17th-century England, even as most of those who employed such arguments were deeply troubled by his absolutist conclusions. Locke's state of nature can be seen in light of this tradition. There is not and never has been any divinely ordained monarch over the entire world, Locke argues. However, the fact that the natural state of humanity is without an institutionalized government does not mean it is lawless. Human beings are still subject to the laws of God and nature. In contrast to Hobbes, who posited the state of nature as a hypothetical possibility, Locke takes great pains to show that such a state did indeed exist. Actually, it still exists in the area of international relations where there is not and is never likely to be any legitimate overarching government (i.e., one directly chosen by all the people subject to it). Whereas Hobbes stresses the disadvantages of the state of nature, Locke points to its good points. It is free, if full of continual dangers (2nd Tr., § 123). Finally, the proper alternative to the natural state is not political dictatorship/tyranny but democratically elected government and the effective protection of basic human rights to life, liberty, and property under the rule of law.\n\nNobody in the natural state has the political power to tell others what to do. However, everybody has the right to authoritatively pronounce justice and administer punishment for breaches of the natural law. Thus, men are not free to do whatever they please. \"The state of nature has a law of nature to govern it, which obliges every one: and reason, which is that law, teaches all mankind, who will but consult it, that... no one ought to harm another in his life, health, liberty, or possessions\" (2nd Tr., § 6). The specifics of this law are unwritten, however, and so each is likely to misapply it in his own case. Lacking any commonly recognised, impartial judge, there is no way to correct these misapplications or to effectively restrain those who violate the law of nature.\n\nThe law of nature is therefore ill enforced in the state of nature.\nIF man in the state of nature be so free, as has been said; if he be absolute lord of his own person and possessions, equal to the greatest, and subject to no body, why will he part with his freedom? Why will he give up this empire, and subject himself to the dominion and control of any other power? To which it is obvious to answer, that though in the state of nature he hath such a right, yet the enjoyment of it is very uncertain, and constantly exposed to the invasion of others: for all being kings as much as he, every man his equal, and the greater part no strict observers of equity and justice, the enjoyment of the property he has in this state is very unsafe, very unsecure. This makes him willing to quit a condition, which, however free, is full of fears and continual dangers: and it is not without reason, that he seeks out, and is willing to join in society with others, who are already united, or have a mind to unite, for the mutual preservation of their lives, liberties and estates, which I call by the general name, property. (2nd Tr., § 123)\nIt is to avoid the state of war that often occurs in the state of nature, and to protect their private property that men enter into civil or political society, i.e., state of society.\n\nCh. 4 (\"Of Slavery\") and Ch. 16 (\"Of Conquest\") are sources of some confusion: the former provides a justification for slavery, the latter, the rights of conquerors. Because the \"Fundamental Constitutions of Carolina\" provided that a master had perfect authority over his slaves, some have taken these chapters to be an apology for the institution of slavery in Colonial America.\n\nMost Locke scholars roundly reject this reading, as it is directly at odds with the text. The extent of Locke's involvement in drafting the \"Fundamental Constitutions\" is a matter of some debate, but even attributing full culpability for its contents and for his having profited from the Atlantic slave trade, the majority of experts will concede that Locke may have been a hypocrite in this matter, but are adamant that no part of the \"Two Treatises\" can be used to provide theoretical support for slavery by bare right of conquest.\n\nIn the rhetoric of 17th-century England, those who opposed the increasing power of the kings claimed that the country was headed for a condition of slavery. Locke therefore asks, facetiously, under what conditions such slavery might be justified. He notes that slavery cannot come about as a matter of contract (which became the basis of Locke's political system). To be a slave is to be subject to the absolute, arbitrary power of another; as men do not have this power even over themselves, they cannot sell or otherwise grant it to another. One that is deserving of death, i.e., who has violated the law of nature, may be enslaved. This is, however, but the state of war continued (2nd Tr., § 24), and even one justly a slave therefore has no obligation to obedience.\n\nIn providing a justification for slavery, he has rendered all forms of slavery as it actually exists invalid. Moreover, as one may not submit to slavery, there is a moral injunction to attempt to throw off and escape it whenever it looms. Most scholars take this to be Locke's point regarding slavery: submission to absolute monarchy is a violation of the law of nature, for one does not have the right to enslave oneself.\n\nThe legitimacy of an English king depended on (somehow) demonstrating descent from William the Conqueror: the right of conquest was therefore a topic rife with constitutional connotations. Locke does not say that all subsequent English monarchs have been illegitimate, but he does make their rightful authority dependent solely upon their having acquired the people's approbation.\n\nLocke first argues that, clearly, aggressors in an unjust war can claim no right of conquest: everything they despoil may be retaken as soon as the dispossessed have the strength to do so. Their children retain this right, so an ancient usurpation does not become lawful with time. The rest of the chapter then considers what rights a just conqueror might have.\n\nThe argument proceeds negatively: Locke proposes one power a conqueror could gain, and then demonstrates how in point of fact that power cannot be claimed. He gains no authority over those that conquered with him, for they did not wage war unjustly: thus, whatever other right William may have had in England, he could not claim kingship over his fellow Normans by right of conquest. The subdued are under the conqueror's despotical authority, but only those who actually took part in the fighting. Those who were governed by the defeated aggressor do not become subject to the authority of the victorious aggressor. They lacked the power to do an unjust thing, and so could not have granted that power to their governors: the aggressor therefore was not acting as their representative, and they cannot be punished for his actions. And while the conqueror may seize the person of the vanquished aggressor in an unjust war, he cannot seize the latter's property: he may not drive the innocent wife and children of a villain into poverty for another's unjust acts. While the property is technically that of the defeated, his innocent dependents have a claim that the just conqueror must honour. He cannot seize more than the vanquished could forfeit, and the latter had no right to ruin his dependents. (He may, however, demand and take reparations for the damages suffered in the war, so long as these leave enough in the possession of the aggressor's dependants for their survival).\n\nIn so arguing, Locke accomplishes two objectives. First, he neutralises the claims of those who see all authority flowing from William I by the latter's right of conquest. In the absence of any other claims to authority (e.g., Filmer's primogeniture from Adam, divine anointment, etc.), all kings would have to found their authority on the consent of the governed. Second, he removes much of the incentive for conquest in the first place, for even in a just war the spoils are limited to the persons of the defeated and reparations sufficient only to cover the costs of the war, and even then only when the aggressor's territory can easily sustain such costs (i.e., it can never be a profitable endeavour). Needless to say, the bare claim that one's spoils are the just compensation for a just war does not suffice to make it so, in Locke's view.\n\nIn the \"Second Treatise\", Locke claims that civil society was created for the protection of property. In saying this, he relies on the etymological root of \"property,\" Latin \"proprius\", or what is one's own, including oneself (cf. French \"propre\"). Thus, by \"property\" he means \"life, liberty, and estate.\" By saying that political society was established for the better protection of property, he claims that it serves the private (and non-political) interests of its constituent members: it does not promote some good that can be realised only in community with others (e.g., virtue).\n\nFor this account to work, individuals must possess some property outside of society, i.e., in the state of nature: the state cannot be the sole origin of property, declaring what belongs to whom. If the purpose of government is the protection of property, the latter must exist independently of the former. Filmer had said that, if there even were a state of nature (which he denied), everything would be held in common: there could be no private property, and hence no justice or injustice (injustice being understood as treating someone else's goods, liberty, or life as if it were one's own). Thomas Hobbes had argued the same thing. Locke therefore provides an account of how material property could arise in the absence of government.\n\nHe begins by asserting that each individual, at a minimum, \"owns\" himself; this is a corollary of each individual's being free and equal in the state of nature. As a result, each must also own his own labour: to deny him his labour would be to make him a slave. One can therefore take items from the common store of goods by mixing one's labour with them: an apple on the tree is of no use to anyone—it must be picked to be eaten—and the picking of that apple makes it one's own. In an alternate argument, Locke claims that we must allow it to become private property lest all mankind have starved, despite the bounty of the world. A man must be allowed to eat, and thus have what he has eaten be his own (such that he could deny others a right to use it). The apple is surely his when he swallows it, when he chews it, when he bites into it, when he brings it to his mouth, etc.: it became his as soon as he mixed his labour with it (by picking it from the tree).\n\nThis does not yet say \"why\" an individual is allowed to take from the common store of nature. There is a necessity to do so to eat, but this does not yet establish why others must respect one's property, especially as they labour under the like necessity. Locke assures his readers that the state of nature is a state of plenty: one may take from communal store if one leaves a) enough and b) as good for others, and since nature is bountiful, one can take all that one can use without taking anything \"from\" someone else. Moreover, one can take only so much as one can use before it spoils. There are then two provisos regarding what one can take, the \"enough and as good\" condition and \"spoilage.\"\n\nGold does not rot. Neither does silver, or any other precious metal or gem. They are, moreover, useless, their aesthetic value not entering into the equation. One can heap up as much of them as one wishes, or take them in trade for food. By the tacit consent of mankind, they become a form of money (one accepts gold in exchange for apples with the understanding that someone else will accept that gold in exchange for wheat). One can therefore avoid the spoilage limitation by selling all that one has amassed before it rots; the limits on acquisition thus disappear.\n\nIn this way, Locke argues that a full economic system could, in principle, exist within the state of nature. Property could therefore predate the existence of government, and thus society can be dedicated to the protection of property.\n\nLocke did not demand a republic. Rather, Locke felt that a legitimate contract could easily exist between citizens and a monarchy, an oligarchy or some mixed form (\"2nd Tr.\", sec. 132). Locke uses the term Common-wealth to mean \"not a democracy, or any form of government, but any independent community\" (sec. 133) and \"whatever form the Common-wealth is under, the Ruling Power ought to govern by declared and received laws, and not by extemporary dictates and undetermined resolutions.\" (sec 137)\n\nLocke does, however, make a distinction between an executive (e.g. a monarchy), a \"Power always in being\" (sec 144) that must perpetually execute the law, and the legislative that is the \"supreme power of the Common-wealth\" (sec 134) and does not have to be always in being. (sec 153) Furthermore, governments are charged by the consent of the individual, \"i.e. the consent of the majority, giving it either by themselves, or their representatives chosen by them.\" (sec 140)\n\nHis notions of people's rights and the role of civil government provided strong support for the intellectual movements of both revolutions.\n\nThe concept of the right of revolution was also taken up by John Locke in \"Two Treatises of Government\" as part of his social contract theory. Locke declared that under natural law, all people have the right to life, liberty, and estate; under the social contract, the people could instigate a revolution against the government when it acted against the interests of citizens, to replace the government with one that served the interests of citizens. In some cases, Locke deemed revolution an obligation. The right of revolution thus essentially acted as a safeguard against tyranny.\n\nLocke affirmed an explicit right to revolution in \"Two Treatises of Government\": “\"whenever the Legislators endeavor to take away, and destroy the Property of the People\", or to reduce them to Slavery under Arbitrary Power, they put themselves into a state of War with the People, who are thereupon absolved from any farther Obedience, and are left to the common Refuge, which God hath provided for all Men, against Force and Violence. Whensoever therefore the \"Legislative\" shall transgress this fundamental Rule of Society; and either by Ambition, Fear, Folly or Corruption, \"endeavor to grasp\" themselves, \"or put into the hands of any other an Absolute Power\" over the Lives, Liberties, and Estates of the People; By this breach of Trust \"they forfeit the Power\", the People had put into their hands, for quite contrary ends, and it devolves to the People, who have a Right to resume their original Liberty.” (sec. 222) \n\nAlthough the \"Two Treatises\" would become well known in the second half of the 18th century, they were somewhat neglected when published. Between 1689 and 1694, around 200 tracts and treatises were published concerning the legitimacy of the Glorious Revolution. Three of these mention Locke, two of which were written by friends of Locke. When Hobbes published the \"Leviathan\" in 1651, by contrast, dozens of texts were immediately written in response to it. As Mark Goldie explains: \"\"Leviathan\" was a monolithic and unavoidable presence for political writers in Restoration England in a way that in the first half of the eighteenth the \"Two Treatises\" was not.\"\n\nWhile the \"Two Treatises\" did not become popular until the 1760s, ideas from them did start to become important earlier in the century. According to Goldie, \"the crucial moment was 1701\" and \"the occasion was the Kentish petition.\" The pamphlet war that ensued was one of the first times Locke's ideas were invoked in a public debate, most notably by Daniel Defoe. Locke's ideas did not go unchallenged and the periodical \"The Rehearsal\", for example, launched a \"sustained and sophisticated assault” against the \"Two Treatises\" and endorsed the ideology of patriarchalism. Not only did patriarchalism continue to be a legitimate political theory in the 18th century, but as J. G. A. Pocock and others have gone to great lengths to demonstrate, so was civic humanism and classical republicanism. Pocock has argued that Locke's \"Two Treatises\" had very little effect on British political theory; he maintains that there was no contractarian revolution. Rather, he sees these other long-standing traditions as far more important for 18th-century British politics.\n\nIn the middle of the 18th century, Locke's position as a political philosopher suddenly rose in prominence. For example, he was invoked by those arguing on behalf of the American colonies during the Stamp Act debates of 1765–66. Marginalized groups such as women, Dissenters and those campaigning to abolish the slave trade all invoked Lockean ideals. But at the same time, as Goldie describes it, \"a wind of doubt about Locke's credentials gathered into a storm. The sense that Locke's philosophy had been misappropriated increasingly turned to a conviction that it was erroneous.” By the 1790s Locke was associated with Rousseau and Voltaire and being blamed for the American and French Revolutions as well as for the perceived secularisation of society. By 1815, Locke's portrait was taken down from Christ Church, his alma mater (it was later restored to a position of prominence, and currently hangs in the dining hall of the college).\n\nLocke's influence during the American Revolutionary period is disputed. While it is easy to point to specific instances of Locke's \"Two Treatises\" being invoked, the extent of the acceptance of Locke's ideals and the role they played in the American Revolution are far from clear. The \"Two Treatises\" are echoed in phrases in the Declaration of Independence and writings by Samuel Adams that attempted to gain support for the rebellion. Of Locke's influence Thomas Jefferson wrote: \"Bacon, Locke and Newton I consider them as the three greatest men that have ever lived, without any exception, and as having laid the foundation of those superstructures which have been raised in the Physical & Moral sciences\". The colonists frequently cited Blackstone's \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\", which synthesised Lockean political philosophy with the common law tradition. Louis Hartz, writing at the beginning of the 20th century, took it for granted that Locke was the political philosopher of the revolution.\n\nThis view was challenged by Bernard Bailyn and Gordon S. Wood, who argued that the revolution was not a struggle over property, taxation, and rights, but rather \"a Machiavellian effort to preserve the young republic's 'virtue' from the corrupt and corrupting forces of English politics.\" Garry Wills, on the other hand, maintains that it was neither the Lockean tradition nor the classical republican tradition that drove the revolution, but instead Scottish moral philosophy, a political philosophy that based its conception of society on friendship, sensibility and the controlled passions. Thomas Pangle and Michael Zuckert have countered, demonstrating numerous elements in the thought of more influential founders that have a Lockean pedigree. They argue that there is no conflict between Lockean thought and classical Republicanism.\n\nLocke’s political philosophy is often compared and contrasted with Thomas Hobbes’ \"Leviathan\". The motivation in both cases is self-preservation with Hobbes arguing the need of an absolute monarch to prevent the war of “all against all” inherent in anarchy while Locke argues that the protection of life, liberty, and property can be achieved by a parliamentary process that protects, not violates, one’s rights.\n\nLeo Strauss and C. B. Macpherson stress the continuity of thought. In their view Locke and Hobbes describe an atomistic man largely driven by a hedonistic materialistic acquisitiveness. Strauss’ Locke is little more than Hobbes in “sheep’s clothing.” C. B. Macpherson argued in his \"Political Theory of Possessive Individualism\" that Locke sets the stage for unlimited acquisition and appropriation of property by the powerful creating gross inequality. Government is the protector of interests of capitalists while the “labouring class [are] not considered to have an interest.”\n\nUnlike Macpherson, James Tully finds no evidence that Locke specifically advocates capitalism. In his \"A Discourse on Property\", Tully describes Locke’s view of man as a social dependent, with Christian sensibilities, and a God-given duty to care for others. Property, in Tully’s explanation of Locke, belong to the community as the public commons but becomes “private” so long as the property owner, or more correctly the “custodian,” serves the community. Zuckert believes Tully is reading into Locke rights and duties that just aren’t there. Huyler finds that Locke explicitly condemned government privileges for rich, contrary to Macpherson’s pro-capitalism critique, but also rejected subsidies to aid the poor, in contrast to Tully’s social justice apologetics.\n\nThe Cambridge School of political thought, led principally by Quentin Skinner, J. G. A. Pocock, Richard Ashcraft, and Peter Laslett, uses a historical methodology to situate Locke in the \"political\" context of his times. But they also restrict his importance to those times. Ashcraft’s Locke takes the side of the burgeoning merchant class against the aristocracy. Neal Wood puts Locke on the side of the agrarian interests, not the manufacturing bourgeoisie.\n\nJerome Huyler and Michael. P. Zuckert approach Locke in the broader context of his oeuvre and historical influence. Locke is situated within changing religious, philosophical, scientific, and political dimensions of 17th century England. Objecting to the use of the contemporary concept of economic man to describe Locke’s view of human nature, Huyler emphases the “virtue of industriousness” of Locke’s Protestant England. Productive work is man’s earthly function or calling, ordained by God and required by self-preservation. The government’s protection of property rights insures that the results of industry, i.e. “fruits of one’s labor,” are secure. Locke’s prohibition of ill-gotten gains, whether for well-connected gentry or the profligate, is not a lack of Locke’s foresight to the problems in the latter stages of liberalism but an application of equal protection of the law to every individual.\n\nRichard Pipes argues that Locke holds a labor theory of value that leads to the socialist critique that those not engaging in physical labor exploit wage earners. Huyler, relying on Locke’s \"Essays on the Law of Nature\" shows that reason is the most fundamental virtue, underwrites all productive virtue, and leads to human flourishing or happiness in an Aristotelean sense.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39138078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39138078", "title": "United Sikhs", "text": "United Sikhs\n\nUNITED SIKHS is a civil rights and humanitarian non profit organization which is also U.N. (United Nations) affiliated group. The concept of United Sikhs was conceived in 1999 by three Sikh Americans.\n"}
{"id": "29355015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29355015", "title": "Workers' compensation employer defense", "text": "Workers' compensation employer defense\n\nWhen a worker has an injury, all US states have a structure of laws designed to provide multiple benefits to that injured worker. These laws are referred to as workers’ compensation and the laws define the benefits, identify all of the parties, and dictate the manner and method for dispensing such benefits. Since every employee, by definition, must work for some employer, when there is a dispute over the benefits or the injury itself, these two primary entities find themselves in conflict within the system. These controversies are thereafter resolved through either negotiation or trial, and the practice of representing the employer side is referred to as workers’ compensation employer defense.\n\nThe system itself involves billions of dollars in payments per year and involves a broad spectrum of a sub-communities of different and often conflicting interests and individuals\n\nFor example, the major entities in most US state systems are:\n\nThe attorneys who regularly perform this kind of work do so with such frequency that their practice becomes specialized, and states have endeavored to acknowledge and control this focus by certification or licensing of the practitioners as designated specialists within the field, after appropriate education, time and successful testing has been accomplished.\n"}
