{"id": "44008120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44008120", "title": "2014 SC324", "text": "2014 SC324\n\nThe preliminary orbit with a short observation arc of 2 days showed that the asteroid had a very small chance of passing from the Moon or from Earth on about 23 October 2014. But with an observation arc of 10 days, the nominal (best fit) orbit showed that on 24 October 2014 the asteroid would pass (1.5 LD) from Earth and even further from the Moon. The asteroid peaked at apparent magnitude 13.5, placing it in the range of amateurs with roughly telescopes.\n\nIt was removed from the Sentry Risk Table on 10 October 2014 using JPL solution #5 with a 10-day observation arc.\n\nIt was observed by Goldstone radar on 24–25 October 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "57166702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57166702", "title": "2017 VW13", "text": "2017 VW13\n\nCalculating the orbit backwards it is known that the asteroid made a close approach to Earth on 8 November 2001. The nominal (best-fit) solution shows that the asteroid passed about from Earth. But due to the uncertainties in the trajectory, the asteroid could have passed as far as from Earth. As the observation arc becomes longer the precise distance of the 2001 approach will become better constrained.\n"}
{"id": "43438858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43438858", "title": "Advanced Research Centre for Bamboo and Rattan", "text": "Advanced Research Centre for Bamboo and Rattan\n\nAdvanced Research Centre for Bamboo and Rattan (ARCBR) Aizawl was established in 2004 as an advanced research centre under the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, Dehradun.\n\n"}
{"id": "39760072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39760072", "title": "Alberta Energy Regulator", "text": "Alberta Energy Regulator\n\nThe Alberta Energy Regulator (AER) is an Alberta corporation, with its main office in Calgary, Alberta. The Alberta Energy Regulator's mandate under the \"Responsible Energy Development Act\", passed on 10 December 2012 and proclaimed on 17 June 2013, is to provide safe, efficient, orderly, and environmentally responsible development of energy resources in the province. Under the \"REDA\", the Alberta Government established the AER in December 2012 to provide a one-stop shop for regulatory approvals after industry complained about the delays and costs of red tape. The legislation combined duties of the Energy Resources Conservation Board with responsibilities of Alberta Environment and Sustainable Resource Development to create a single entity to administer the Public Lands Act, the Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act and the Water Act. The AER operates at arm's length from the Government of Alberta, under an appointed board of directors headed by Chair Gerry Protti, a former president of the oil industry lobby Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers, and CEO Jim Ellis, appointed by Energy Minister Ken Hughes (politician). On 17 June 2013, all regulatory functions previously carried out by the Energy Resources Conservation Board were taken over by the Alberta Energy Regulator.\n\nThe Alberta Energy Regulator \"regulates approximately 181,000 active wells, more than 50,000 oil and gas facilities, and of pipelines.\" The AER also \"considers some 36,800 applications for energy development every year.\"\n\nEnergy regulation in Alberta has a 76-year history, evolving over time to meet changing technologies and public needs. Following its creation in 1938 with the Petroleum and Natural Gas Conservation Board, the regulatory body has consistently overseen energy development in the province. It has existed under several names throughout its history, including the Alberta Oil and Gas Conservation Board, the Alberta Energy and Utilities Board, and the Alberta Energy Resources Conservation Board. The Alberta Energy Regulator builds off of this legacy, but it is, under the \"Responsible Energy Development Act,\" an entirely new organization with new regulatory functions and authority over energy-related applications and developments.\n\nIn December 2012, the \"Responsible Energy Development Act\" passed in the Alberta Legislature as part of the Regulatory Enhancement Project. The \"REDA\" made the Alberta Energy Regulator \"responsible for all projects from application to reclamation,\" with \"the authority to administer the Public Lands Act, the Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act and the Water Act, with regards to energy development.\" The Alberta Energy Regulator was phased in over nine months beginning in June 2013. In March 2014, the Alberta Energy Regulator became the single regulator for energy development in Alberta; it now enforces environmental laws and issues environmental and water permits for energy developments, which were formerly responsibilities of Alberta Environment and Sustainable Resource Development.\n\nThe Alberta Energy Regulator \"ensures the safe, efficient, orderly, and environmentally responsible development of hydrocarbon resources over their entire life cycle. This includes allocating and conserving water resources, managing public lands, and environmental protection while providing economic benefits for all Albertans.\" These hydrocarbon resources are among the world's largest reserves at 167 billion barrels of bitumen and crude oil, 33.7 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, and 37 billion tons of coal. The Alberta Energy Regulator also regulates the infrastructure associated with these reserves, including a provincial pipeline network of 415,000 kilometres (km), over 181,000 operating wells, more than 50,000 oil and gas facilities, over 200 thermal oil sands projects, 9 oil sands mines, 11 coal mines, and 4 coal processing plants.\n\nThe Government of Alberta has granted the AER authority to review and make decisions on proposed energy developments, to oversee all aspects of energy resource activities in accordance with government policies, to regularly inspect energy activities to ensure that all applicable requirements are met, to penalize companies that fail to comply with AER requirements, and to hold hearings on proposed energy developments. As the single regulator, it is responsible for all energy-related applications under the \"Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act\", the \"Water Act\", the \"Public Lands Act\", and the \"Mines and Minerals Act\". The AER also responds to concerns from landowners, First Nations, industry, and other stakeholders regarding energy regulations in Alberta and mediates disputes surrounding energy projects.\n\nIn the past the Energy Resources Conservation Board and Alberta Environment and Sustainable Resource Development (formerly Alberta Environment) conducted investigations separately, but, with the creation of a single regulatory body for energy developments, the Alberta Energy Regulator now conducts investigations and inspections to ensure compliance with all regulatory, environmental, and safety requirements. The AER can enforce industry compliance with regulations using tools that include more frequent and detailed inspections, more stringent planning requirements, enforcement orders, shutting down operations, administrative penalties, and prosecution. The AER regularly posts details of compliance activities on the AER website, which also includes copies of all investigation reports.\n\nSince the Energy Resources Conservation Board (ERCB) was succeeded by AER, as part of their succession title pages of all existing ERCB directives such as Directive 074 regarding oil sands tailings ponds performance dated 3 February 2009, now carry the AER logo.\n\nThe AER's governance structure uses a corporate-style system to \"achieve benefits of both strong corporate oversight and independent adjudication.\" Thus, the board of directors determines the general direction of the regulator rather than overseeing the AER's day-to-day operations and decisions — these are the responsibility of the chief executive officer. The CEO receives and makes decisions on applications, monitors and investigates energy resource activities for compliance, and oversees the closure of energy developments, including reclamation and remediation of the land.\n\nHearing commissioners constitute another part of the AER's structure. They conduct all hearings into energy applications and regulatory appeals, in addition to helping to develop the organization's hearing procedures and rules as well as other day-to-day operations. Hearing commissioners are independent adjudicators, and their decisions may only be reviewed by the Court of Appeal of Alberta.\n\nAER chair, Gerry Protti was a former executive with Encana, the founding president of the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP), and a long-time lobbyist for the Energy Policy Institute of Canada. The appointment was met with calls for his resignation as he was seen to be biased in favour of industry. The organization's governance structure, however, delegates decisions on contested applications and developments to the hearing commissioners, with the chair heading a board of directors tasked with setting performance expectations and approving regulatory change. Jim Ellis, a former deputy minister in environment and energy, was appointed as CEO by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.\n\nThe Alberta Energy Regulator is 100 per cent funded by industry and is authorized to collect funds through an administrative fee levied on oil and gas wells, oil sands mines, and coal mines. The industry-funded model is commonly used by regulatory agencies from various sectors across North America, such as the Alberta Utilities Commission and the BC Oil and Gas Commission. Its budget is established through a formal process between the Government of Alberta's Treasury Board and the AER, and the budget must be approved by the Government of Alberta. The AER has an annual budget of more than $165 million and more than 1200 staff working in 15 locations across Alberta.\n\nGerry Protti, provided an overview of AER's first year in operation beginning April 2014, to one hundred participants at Green Regs & Ham in Calgary hosted by the Environmental Law Centre and sponsored by Devon Canada and Cenovus Energy. Protti described AER's \"holistic approach\" to oil and gas development and regulation under Alberta's Water Act and Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act, the \"adoption of \"play-based\" regulation, which focuses on regulating the surface and subsurface of a particular formation (as opposed to the traditional one well-one licence approach); use of a performance-based approach to regulate outcomes, which includes managing cumulative effects, minimizing spread of surface infrastructure, and conserving and managing water; and increased planning and collaboration among companies and community stakeholders.\" During question period Protti admitted \"despite working hard on it over the past year, the AER could have communicated better with the public.\"\n\nDuring the 2015 IHS Inc. CERAWeek, Rex Tillerson, Chairman and CEO of ExxonMobil, the world's biggest energy company, praised Alberta's province's regulatory process for bringing critical regulatory \"functions under one umbrella...[the AER]...decreasing duplication and costs and increasing efficiency.\" Tillerson argued that the U.S. energy policy has not \"kept up with rapid changes in the sector.\"\n\nIn March 2013, critics expressed concern that the AER would lead to less transparency in the regulation of the oil, gas and coal industry and would weaken environmental protection. Energy Minister Ken Hughes argued that the Policy Management Office would oversee AER when it takes over from Environment and Sustainable Resource Development (ESRD) in issuing permits related to water and to the environment. The Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP) welcomes the change that will streamline access to water and environmental permits for oil companies, by creating a one-stop-shop with \"much needed clarity\". Rachel Notley, the New Democrat's environment critic, expressed concern that the security of water and the environment would be compromised if the all decisions relating to development in the energy sector—including oil, gas and coal—are regulated under the AER, which is entirely funded by these industries. Prior to Bill 2, the Responsible Energy Development Act, the Alberta Environment regulated these permits under three provincial laws, the Water Act, the Public Lands Act, and the Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act.\n\n\nBreen, David. \"Alberta's Petroleum Industry and the Conservation Board.\" University of Alberta Press, 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "8614096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8614096", "title": "André Mernier", "text": "André Mernier\n\nAndré Mernier (born 26 May 1943) is former Secretary General of the Energy Charter Secretariat: He served in this post from 2006 to 2011. He is retired since January 2012.\n\nAndré Mernier is married and has two children.\n\nIn 1963–1972 Mernier served as an officer in the Belgian Armed Forces and prior to that attended a military academy in Brussels. In 1973 he received a law degree from the University of Louvain.\n\nIn 1975 André Mernier joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Belgium. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3737335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3737335", "title": "Ashden", "text": "Ashden\n\nAshden is a London-based charity that works in the field of sustainable energy and development. Its work includes the annual Ashden Awards, advocacy and research in the field of sustainable energy, and mentoring and practical support for award winners.\n\nSarah Butler-Sloss created the awards in 2001, from the Ashden Trust, one of the Sainsbury Family Charitable Trusts. In 2011 the charity changed its working name to Ashden, with its full name registered with the Charity Commission being 'Ashden, Sustainable solutions, better lives'.\n\nAshden rewards and promotes local sustainable energy solutions in parts of Europe and the developing world through its annual Ashden Awards. Awards are given to organisations and businesses that deliver local, sustainable energy schemes with social, economic and environmental benefits. Awards are provided across several different categories, including UK and international awards. Awards for sustainable travel schemes have been provided since 2012. To help the winners, each award includes a cash prize.\n\nThe Ashden Awards ceremony is held annually at the Royal Geographical Society in London. Previous hosts include broadcasters Emma Freud, Anna Ford, John Humphrys and Jonathan Dimbleby and environmental journalist Mark Lynas.\n\nGuest speakers in recent years have included Kandeh Yumkella, Prince Charles, Sir David King, Wangari Maathai, Al Gore, David Attenborough, Hilary Benn, (the then UK Secretary of State for International Development), Dr RK Pachauri, Chair of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, David Cameron, (leader of the Conservative Party) and Lord May of Oxford, (former Chief Scientific Adviser to the UK Government).\n\nAfter presenting the prizes at the 2007 ceremony Al Gore commented:\n\"No one can attend an event like the Ashden Awards and fail to be inspired. We must find a path from an unsustainable present to a sustainable future.What impresses me most about these projects is they truly are becoming the change that is needed in the world.These Awards tell us how to illuminate this path to a sustainable future together. I hope that we can make it quickly.\"\n\nAshden provides a package of support for organisations after they win their awards. It also runs 'LESS CO2', a peer-to-peer mentoring programme for schools to learn from each other about energy saving. In 2011 Ashden helped set up the Ashden India Renewable Energy Collective, made up of Ashden Award winners working in India. The Collective works to end energy poverty in India by acting as a unified voice for the sustainable energy sector.\n\nAshden also holds specialist seminars and conferences bringing together their award winners with practitioners, academics, and those who make or influence policy. Examples of recent seminars include one held at Imperial College and another held at DFID.\n\nThe Ashden Awards have been presented to 205 organisations, including NGOs, businesses, local governments and schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859694", "title": "Bioindicator", "text": "Bioindicator\n\nA bioindicator is any species (an indicator species) or group of species whose function, population, or status can reveal the qualitative status of the environment. For example, copepods and other small water crustaceans that are present in many water bodies can be monitored for changes (biochemical, physiological, or behavioural) that may indicate a problem within their ecosystem. Bioindicators can tell us about the cumulative effects of different pollutants in the ecosystem and about how long a problem may have been present, which physical and chemical testing cannot.\n\nA biological monitor or biomonitor is an organism that provides quantitative information on the quality of the environment around it. Therefore, a good biomonitor will indicate the presence of the pollutant and also attempt to provide additional information about the amount and intensity of the exposure.\n\nA biological indicator is also the name given to a process for assessing the sterility of an environment through the use of resistant microorganism strains (eg. \"Bacillus\" or \"Geobacillus\"). Biological indicators can be described as the introduction of a highly resistant microorganisms to a given environment before sterilization, tests are conducted to measure the effectiveness of the sterilization processes. As biological indicators use highly resistant microorganisms, you can be assured that any sterilization process that renders them inactive will have also killed off more common, weaker pathogens.\nA bioindicator is an organism or biological response that reveals the presence of the pollutants by the occurrence of typical symptoms or measurable responses and is, therefore, more qualitative. \nThese organisms (or communities of organisms) deliver information on alterations in the environment or the quantity of environmental pollutants by changing in one of the following ways: physiologically, chemically or behaviourally. \nThe information can be deduced through the study of:\n\n\nThe importance and relevance of biomonitors, rather than man-made equipment, is justified by the observation that the best indicator of the status of a species or system is itself. Bioindicators can reveal indirect biotic effects of pollutants when many physical or chemical measurements cannot. Through bioindicators, scientists need to observe only the single indicating species to check on the environment rather than monitor the whole community.\n\nThe use of a biomonitor is described as biological monitoring and is the use of the properties of an organism to obtain information on certain aspects of the biosphere. Biomonitoring of air pollutants can be passive or active. Passive methods observe plants growing naturally within the area of interest. Active methods detect the presence of air pollutants by placing test plants of known response and genotype into the study area.\n\nBioaccumulative indicators are frequently regarded as biomonitors. Depending on the organism selected and their use, there are several types of bio-indicators.\n\nThe presence or absence of certain plant or other vegetative life in an ecosystem can provide important clues about the health of the environment: environmental preservation. There are several types of plant biomonitors, including mosses, lichens, tree bark, bark pockets, tree rings, and leaves. Fungi too may be useful as indicators.\n\nLichens are organisms comprising both fungi and algae. They are found on rocks and tree trunks, and they respond to environmental changes in forests, including changes in forest structure – conservation biology, air quality, and climate. The disappearance of lichens in a forest may indicate environmental stresses, such as high levels of sulfur dioxide, sulfur-based pollutants, and nitrogen oxides.\nThe composition and total biomass of algal species in aquatic systems serve as an important metric for organic water pollution and nutrient loading such as nitrogen and phosphorus.\nThere are genetically engineered organisms that can respond to toxicity levels in the environment; \"e.g.\", a type of genetically engineered grass that grows a different colour if there are toxins in the soil.\n\nChanges in animal populations, whether increases or decreases, can indicate pollution. For example, if pollution causes depletion of a plant, animal species that depend on that plant will experience population decline. Conversely, overpopulation may be opportunistic growth of a species in response to loss of other species in an ecosystem. On the other hand, stress-induced sub-lethal effects can me manifested in animal physiology, morphology, and behaviour of individuals long before responses are expressed and observed at the population level. Such sub-lethal responses can be very useful as \"early warning signals\" to predict how population will further respond. \n\nPollution and other stress agents can be monitored by measuring any of several variables in animals: the concentration of toxins in animal tissues; the rate at which deformities arise in animal populations; behaviour in the field or in the laboratory; and by assessing changes in individual physiology.\n\nAmphibians, particularly anurans which consist of frogs and toads, are increasingly used as bioindicators of contaminant accumulation in pollution studies. Anurans absorb toxic chemicals through their skin and larval gill membranes and are sensitive to alterations in their environment. They have a poor ability to detoxify pesticides that are absorbed, inhaled, or ingested by eating contaminated food. This allows residues, especially of organochlorine pesticides, to accumulate in their systems. They also have permeable skin that can easily absorb toxic chemicals, making them a model organism for assessing the effects of environmental factors that may cause the declines of the amphibian population. These factors allow them to be used as bioindicator organisms to follow changes in their habitats and in ecotoxicological studies due to humans increasing demands on the environment.\n\nKnowledge and control of environmental agents is essential for sustaining the health of ecosystems. Anurans are increasingly utilized as bioindicator organisms in pollution studies such as studying the effects of agricultural pesticides on the environment. Environmental assessment to study the environment in which they live in is performed by analyzing their abundance in the area as well as assessing their locomotive ability and any abnormal morphological changes, which are deformities and abnormalities in development. Decline of anurans and malformations could also suggest increased exposure to ultra-violet light and parasites.\n\nPond breeding anurans are especially sensitive to pollution because of their complex life cycles, which could consist of terrestrial and aquatic living. During the embryonic development of them, morphological and behavioral alterations are the effects most frequently cited in connection with chemical exposures. Effects of exposure may result in shorter body length, lower body mass and malformations of limbs or other organs. The slow development, late morphological change, and small metamorph size result in increased risk of mortality and exposure to predation.\n\nMicroorganisms can be used as indicators of aquatic or terrestrial ecosystem health. Found in large quantities, microorganisms are easier to sample than other organisms. Some microorganisms will produce new proteins, called stress proteins, when exposed to contaminants such as cadmium and benzene. These stress proteins can be used as an early warning system to detect changes in levels of pollution.\n\nMicrobial Prospecting for oil and gas (MPOG) is often used to identify prospective areas for oil and gas occurrences. In many cases oil and gas is known to seep toward the surface as a hydrocarbon reservoir will usually leak or have leaked towards the surface through buoyancy forces overcoming sealing pressures. These hydrocarbons can alter the chemical and microbial occurrences found in the near surface soils or can be picked up directly. Techniques used for MPOG include DNA analysis, simple bug counts after culturing a soil sample in a hydrocarbon based medium or by looking at the consumption of hydrocarbon gases in a culture cell.\n\nMicroalgae have gained attention in the recent years due to several reasons because of their greater sensitivity to pollutants than many other organisms. In addition, they occur abundantly in nature, they are an essential component in very many food webs, they are easy to culture and to use in assays and there are few if any ethical issues involved in their use.\n\n\"Euglena gracilis\" is a motile freshwater photosynthetic flagellate. Although \"Euglena\" is rather tolerant to acidity, it responds rapidly and sensitively to environmental stresses such as heavy metals or inorganic and organic compounds. Typical responses are the inhibition of movement and the change of orientation parameters. Moreover, this organism is very easy to handle and grow, making it a very useful tool for eco-toxicological assessments. One very useful particularity of this organism is the gravitactic orientation, which is very sensitive to pollutants. The gravireceptors are impaired by pollutants such as heavy metals and organic or inorganic compounds. Therefore, the presence of such substances is associated with random movement of the cells in the water column. For short term tests, gravitactic orientation of \"E. gracilis\" is very sensitive.\nOther species such as \"Paramecium biaurelia\" (see \"Paramecium aurelia\") also use gravitactic orientation.\n\nAutomatic bioassay is possible, using the flagellate \"Euglena gracilis\" in a device which measures their motility at different dilutions of the possibly polluted water sample, to determine the EC50(the concentration of sample which affects 50 percent of organisms) and the G-value (lowest dilution factor at which no-significant toxic affect can be measured).\n\nMacroinvertebrates are useful and convenient indicators of the ecological health of water bodies and terrestrial ecosystems. They are almost always present, and are easy to sample and identify. The sensitivity of the range of macroinvertebrates found will enable an objective judgement of the ecological condition to be made. Tolerance values are commonly used to assess water pollution and environmental degradation, such as human activities (e.g. selective logging and wildfires) in tropical forests.\n\nIn Europe, a remote online biomonitoring system was designed in 2006. It is based on bivalve molluscs and the exchange of real time data between a remote intelligent device in the field (able to work for more than 1 year without \"in-situ\" human intervention) and a data centre designed to capture, process and distribute on the web information derived from the data. The technique relates bivalve behaviour, specifically shell gaping activity, to water quality changes. This technology has been successfully used for the assessment of coastal water quality in various countries (France, Spain, Norway, Russia, Svalbard (Ny Alesund) and New Caledonia).\n\nIn the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published \"Rapid Bioassessment Protocols,\" in 1999, based on measuring macroinvertebrates, as well as periphyton and fish for assessment of water quality.\n\nIn South Africa, the Southern African Scoring System (SASS) method is based on benthic macroinvertebrates, and is used for the assessment of water quality in Southern African rivers. The SASS aquatic biomonitoring tool has been refined over the past 30 years and is now on the fifth version (SASS5) in accordance with the ISO/IEC 17025 protocol. The SASS5 method is used by the South African Department of Water Affairs as a standard method for River Health Assessment, which feeds the national River Health Programme and the national Rivers Database.\n\nThe imposex phenomenon in the dog conch species of sea snail leads to the abnormal development of a penis in females, but does not cause sterility. Because of this, the species has been suggested as a good indicator of pollution with organic man-made tin compounds in Malaysian ports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36344470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36344470", "title": "Centre for Marine Living Resources &amp; Ecology", "text": "Centre for Marine Living Resources &amp; Ecology\n\nThe Centre for Marine Living Resources & Ecology (CMLRE) is a research institute in Kochi, Kerala under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Government of India with a mandate to study the marine living resources. Today, apart from implementing various research projects of the ministry, the institute also manages and operates the Fishery Oceanographic Research Vessel (FORV) \"Sagar Sampada\".\n\nThe institute has its origins in the \"Sagar Sampada\" cell, which was established under the then Department of Ocean Development, DOD (upgraded to the Ministry of Earth Sciences in 2006) for managing and co-ordinating activities of FORV Sagar Sampada. During the beginning of the 9th Five Year Plan of the Government of India in 1998, the Marine Living Resources Programme (MLR Programme) was formulated by the DOD with a view of promoting ocean development activities in the country which inter-alia include mapping of the living resources, preparing inventory of commercially exploitable living marine resources, their optimum utilization through ecosystem management and R & D in basic sciences on Marine Living Resources & Ecology. With the objective of implementing this programme, the \"Sagar Sampada\" cell was upgraded to the Centre for Marine Living Resources and Ecology. To this date, the research vessel \"Sagar Sampada\" serves as the backbone of the MLR research activities co-ordinated by CMLRE.\n\nDuring the 9th five-year plan (1998-2002), the Centre co-ordinated the first systematic study of marine life along the Indian shelf waters, along the eastern and western coasts of India. The environmental characteristics of this region and the phytoplankton, zooplankton, marine benthos, fishery resources etc. of this region were systematically characterized for the first time. During the 10th five-year plan (2002-2007) the exploration was extended to the continental slope regions, particularly in the case of marine benthos and fisheries. Research thrust was also placed on studies of harmful algal blooms and marine mammals around the Indian subcontinent. The environmental and productivity patterns around the Indian EEZ continued to be monitored and research on the productivity and fishery resources of the Andaman and Nicobar regions was also carried out. In January 2005, after the devastating 2004 tsunami the institute along with National Institute of Oceanography and School of Marine Sciences, Cochin University of Science and Technology (CUSAT), Kochi carried out the one of the first scientific studies regarding the impact of the tsunami on marine life. In the 9th and 10th plan periods, the CMLRE served chiefly as a co-ordinating and fund granting agency, managing the projects that were granted to various other research institutes and universities.\n\nDuring the 11th five-year plan (2007-2012), the CMLRE established in-house R&D activities, apart from co-ordination of projects in other institutes. In this period, focus was placed on continued monitoring of the pelagic environment and productivity, marine benthos, harmful algal blooms, studies on reproduction and recruitment of sardines in the south-east Arabian Sea, deep-sea fisheries and myctophid resources in the Indian EEZ. Several projects during this period also focused on isolating and identifying bioactive compounds from marine organisms.\n\nThe Centre has the following mandate\n\nInstitutes associated with the MLR research programme through fund-granting from CMLRE (past and present) include\n\n"}
{"id": "44747619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44747619", "title": "Chemiresistor", "text": "Chemiresistor\n\nA chemiresistor is a material that changes its electrical resistance in response to changes in the nearby chemical environment. Chemiresistors are a class of chemical sensors that rely on the direct chemical interaction between the sensing material and the analyte. The sensing material and the analyte can interact by covalent bonding, hydrogen bonding, or molecular recognition. Several different materials have chemiresistor properties: metal-oxide semiconductors, some conductive polymers, and nanomaterials like graphene, carbon nanotubes and nanoparticles. Typically these materials are used as partially selective sensors in devices like electronic tongues or electronic noses.\n\nA basic chemiresistor consists of a sensing material that bridges the gap between two electrodes or coats a set of interdigitated electrodes. The resistance between the electrodes can be easily measured. The sensing material has an inherent resistance that can be modulated by the presence or absence of the analyte. During exposure, analytes interact with the sensing material. These interactions cause changes in the resistance reading. In some chemiresistors the resistance changes simply indicate the presence of analyte. In others, the resistance changes are proportional to the amount of analyte present; this allows for the amount of analyte present to be measured.\n\nAs far back as 1965 there are reports of semiconductor materials exhibiting electrical conductivities that are strongly affected by ambient gases and vapours. However, it was not until 1985 that Wohltjen and Snow coined the term \"chemiresistor\". The chemiresistive material they investigated was copper phthalocyanine, and they demonstrated that its resistivity decreased in the presence of ammonia vapour at room temperature.\n\nIn recent years chemiresistor technology has been used to develop promising sensors for many applications, including conductive polymer sensors for secondhand smoke, carbon nanotube sensors for gaseous ammonia, and metal oxide sensors for hydrogen gas. The ability of chemiresistors to provide accurate real-time information about the environment through small devices that require minimal electricity makes them an appealing addition to the internet of things.\n\nChemiresistors can be made by coating an interdigitated electrode with a thin film or by using a thin film or other sensing material to bridge the single gap between two electrodes. Electrodes are typically made of conductive metals such as gold and chromium which make good ohmic contact with thin films. In both architectures, the chemiresistant sensing material controls the conductance between the two electrodes; however, each device architecture has its own advantages and disadvantages.\n\nInterdigitated electrodes allow for a greater amount of the film's surface area to be in contact with the electrode. This allows for more electrical connections to be made and increases the overall conductivity of the system. Interdigitated electrodes with finger sizes and finger spacing on the order of microns are difficult to manufacture and require the use of photolithography. Larger features are easier to fabricate and can be manufactured using techniques such as thermal evaporation. Both interdigitated electrode and single-gap systems can be arranged in parallel to allow for the detection of multiple analytes by one device.\n\nMetal oxide chemiresistor sensors were first commercialized in 1970 in a carbon monoxide detector that used powdered SnO. However, there are many other metal oxides that have chemiresistive properties. Metal oxide sensors are primarily gas sensors, and they can sense both oxidizing and reducing gases. This makes them ideal for use in industrial situations where gases used in manufacturing can pose a risk to worker safety.\n\nSensors made from metal oxides require high temperatures to operate because, in order for the resistivity to change, an activation energy must be overcome. Typical metal-oxide gas sensors require temperatures of 200 °C or higher in order to operate.\n\nIn comparison to the other materials graphene chemiresistor sensors are relatively new but have shown excellent sensitivity. Graphene is an allotrope of carbon that consists of a single layer of graphite. This versatile material has been used in sensors to detect vapour-phase molecules, pH, proteins, bacteria, and simulated chemical warfare agents.\n\nThe first published report of nanotubes being used as chemiresistors was made in 2000. Since then there has been research into chemiresistors and chemically sensitive field effect transistors fabricated from individual single-walled nanotubes, bundles of single-walled nanotubes, bundles of multi-walled nanotubes, and carbon nanotube–polymer mixtures. It has been shown that a chemical species can alter the resistance of a bundle of single-walled carbon nanotubes through multiple mechanisms.\n\nCarbon nanotubes are useful sensing materials because they have low detection limits, and quick response times; however, bare carbon nanotube sensors are not very selective. They can respond to the presence of many different gases from gaseous ammonia to diesel fumes. Carbon nanotube sensors can be made more selective by using a polymer as a barrier, doping the nanotubes with heteroatoms, or adding functional groups to the surface of the nanotubes.\n\nMany different nanoparticles of varying size, structure and composition have been incorporated into chemiresistor sensors. The most commonly used are thin films of gold nanoparticles coated with self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) of organic molecules. The SAM is critical in defining some of the nanoparticle assembly’s properties. Firstly, the stability of the gold nanoparticles depends upon the integrity of the SAM, which prevents them from sintering together. Secondly, the SAM of organic molecules defines the separation between the nanoparticles, e.g. longer molecules cause the nanoparticles to have a wider average separation. The width of this separation defines the barrier that electrons must tunnel through when a voltage is applied and electric current flows. Thus by defining the average distance between individual nanoparticles the SAM also defines the electrical resistivity of the nanoparticle assembly. Finally, the SAMs form a matrix around the nanoparticles that chemical species can diffuse into. As new chemical species enter the matrix it changes the inter-particle separation which in turn affects the electrical resistance. Analytes diffuse into the SAMs at proportions defined by their partition coefficient and this characterizes the selectivity and sensitivity of the chemiresistor material.\n\nConductive polymers such as polyaniline and polypyrrole can be used as sensing materials when the target interacts directly with the polymer chain resulting in a change in conductivity of the polymer. These types of systems lack selectivity due to the wide range of target molecules that can interact with the polymer. Molecularly imprinted polymers can add selectivity to conductive polymer chemiresistors. A molecularly imprinted polymer is made by polymerizing a polymer around a target molecule and then removing the target molecule from the polymer leaving behind cavities matching the size and shape of the target molecule. Molecularly imprinting the conductive polymer increases the sensitivity of the chemiresistor by selecting for the target's general size and shape as well as its ability to interact with the chain of the conductive polymer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2657753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2657753", "title": "Codorus State Park", "text": "Codorus State Park\n\nCodorus State Park is a Pennsylvania state park in Heidelberg, Manheim, Penn, and West Manheim Townships in southwestern York County, Pennsylvania in the United States. The park was created around Lake Marburg, an artificial lake covering , and is named for Codorus Creek, which forms the lake. Codorus State Park is located on Pennsylvania Route 216, from the borough of Hanover.\n\nWhen Europeans first reached the land that became Codorus State Park, it was the territory of Susquehannock Indians, a powerful tribe that controlled much of the land near the Susquehanna River. Wars and the push of settlers, most of which were German farmers, led to the demise of the Susquehannocks, but industry soon followed.\n\nBuilt in 1762, Mary Ann Furnace is believed to be the first charcoal furnace built on the western side of the Susquehanna River. The furnace supplied cannonballs and grapeshot for the continental army and employed Hessian prisoners to run the ironworks while many of the available workforce were off fighting the British. Nothing remains of the ironworks except memories.\n\nThe four original founders of Mary Ann Furnace had a great impact on the United States. George Stevenson emigrated from Ireland and was employed as a deputy surveyor by the Penn Family. Stevenson organized wagons and supplies for the Forbes Campaign during the French and Indian War. When the British occupied Philadelphia and York became the capital of the Colonies, George Washington called on Stevenson to take charge of the supply lines.\n\nGeorge Ross was a lawyer from Lancaster. During the American Revolutionary War, he served in the Provincial Assembly, the Provincial Conference and the Continental Congress. He signed the Declaration of Independence. He also introduced George Washington to the widow of his nephew, the flagmaker Betsy Ross.\n\nWilliam Thompson emigrated from Ireland. In the French and Indian War, he served as an officer under John Armstrong in the Kittanning Expedition and as a captain of the light horse in the Forbes Campaign. In the American Revolution, he became the colonel of the first colonial infantry and advanced to brigadier general. He was captured in the Second Assault on Quebec and held prisoner for four years, only to die not long after his release.\n\nMark Bird was the son of ironmaster William Bird, of Hopewell Furnace. In the American Revolution, Bird served as deputy quartermaster and as a colonel. He used his own money and ironworks to supply cannons and munitions. After the war, he was never repaid. Deep in debt, he went bankrupt and fled to North Carolina to avoid his creditors.\n\nThe creation Codorus State Park is tied to a cooperative effort between private enterprise and state and local government. The borough of Spring Grove and the P.H. Glatfelter Company worked together to dam Codorus Creek. The purpose of the dam was to provide drinking water for Spring Grove and to meet the industrial needs of the paper plant owned by the P.H. Glatfelter Company in the borough. The construction of this dam was also beneficial to the people of Pennsylvania when a park was created on the shores of the newly made Lake Marburg.\n\nLake Marburg gets its name from the small community of Marburg, home of a handful of buildings - including a farmstead - that was flooded in December 1966, when Codorus Creek was dammed. The dam is high, wide and thick. It is not owned by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, but is instead owned by and on the property of the P.H. Glatfelter Company.\n\nThe land for the park was acquired as part of the Project 70 Land Acquisition and Borrowing Act, with the governor approving the acquisition on December 10, 1964. The park officially opened in 1970. It was originally named \"Codorus Creek State Park\".\n\nTo fill its massive water demands, P.H. Glatfelter Company, now known as Glatfelter Paper built Lake Lehman in 1942. Later, to fill additional needs, the company built Lake PahaGaCo (P.H. Glatfelter Co.) in 1955. It supplemented PaHaGaCo’s 1.3 billion gallons () with water from the Thomasville Stone & Lime Company quarries. But a severe drought of 1963 proved that more water was needed.\n\nThe drought also convinced Pennsylvania officials that more reservoirs were needed and that dovetailed with separate state plans to build a new state park on the west branch of the three-pronged Codorus Creek.\n\nLake Marburg has of coastline. The lake holds many different species of fish. Fishermen will find largemouth bass, yellow perch, crappie, muskellunge, catfish, northern pike, and bluegill in the warm waters of Lake Marburg. Cold water fishing is available in the east branch of Codorus Creek where anglers will find rainbow trout and brown trout that have been stocked for sport fishing by the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission. Canoes, kayaks, sailboats and motor boats up to 20 hp are all permitted on Lake Marburg, provided they are registered properly with the state.\nThe park is open for fishing, boating, and camping. It also has a swimming pool and a 54-hole disc golf course.\n\nCodorus State Park has modern and rustic camp site available. There are 198 camp sites that are suitable for RV's (up to in length) and tents. There are eight campsites with electricity or accommodate campers with disabilities. Codorus State Park also has 13 walk-in campsites for those interested in camping in tents only.\n\nPicnic tables are scattered throughout the park, and two pavilions may be reserved for use by large groups.\n\nThere are of hiking trails with Codorus State Park. The Mary Ann Furnace trail is long. It is a loop trail that winds through pine plantations, hardwood forests and some wetlands. The LaHo trail is long and follows the lakeshore of Lake Marburg through hardwoods and wetlands. Hiking is also possible on the horse trail on the west side of the park.\n\nThere are two 18-hole disc golf courses, and two 9-hole extra courses at Codorus State Park. There is also a 9-hole minis course. The blue course is a more technical 18 holes mostly through wooded areas. The red course is more open, but has some longer holes. There is a bonus course with 9 holes and a cross country course with 9 holes.\nHunting is permitted in Codorus State Park. The most common game species are ruffed grouse, eastern gray squirrel, wild turkey and white-tailed deer. Hunters are expected to follow the rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania State Game Commission. Hunters are limited to using shotguns, muzzleloaders and bows.\n\nCodorus State Park does not close in winter. Snowmobiling, cross country skiing, sledding, ice skating, ice fishing and ice sailing are all popular winter activities, when the weather permits.\n\nThe following state parks are within of Codorus State Park:\n"}
{"id": "2538658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2538658", "title": "Cowpens National Battlefield", "text": "Cowpens National Battlefield\n\nCowpens National Battlefield or Cowpens National Battlefield Park is a unit of the National Park Service just east of Chesnee, South Carolina, and near the state line with North Carolina. It preserves a major battlefield of the American Revolutionary War.\n\nBrigadier General Daniel Morgan won the Battle of Cowpens, a decisive Revolutionary War victory over British Lieutenant Colonel Banastre Tarleton on January 17, 1781. It is considered one of the most memorable victories of Morgan and one of the most memorable defeats of Tarleton.\n\nEstablished as Cowpens National Battlefield Site March 4, 1929; transferred from the War Department August 10, 1933; redesignated April 11, 1972. Listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 15, 1966. Area: 841.56 acres (3.41 km), Federal: , Nonfederal: .\n\nThe visitor center features a museum with exhibits about the American Revolution and the battle, including a fiber-optic map that illustrates the Southern Campaign of the American Revolution and the battle, a walking tour of the battlefield itself, and the reconstructed log cabin of one Robert Scruggs, who had farmed the land before the establishment of the park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4082119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4082119", "title": "D3o", "text": "D3o\n\nD3O (formally \"D3o\") is a polyurethane energy-absorbing material containing several additives and polyborodimethylsiloxane a dilatant non-Newtonian fluid.\nPolyborodimethylsiloxane is a substance called a dilatant that in its raw state flows freely but on shock locks together to absorb and disperse energy as heat before returning to its semi fluid state. The commercial material known as D3O is in essence a closed cell polyurethane foam composite with polyborodimethylsiloxane (PBDMS) as the dilatant dispersed through the foam matrix which makes the product rate sensitive thus dissipating more energy than plain polyurethane at specific energy levels. The patent cites optimal proportions for a shock absorbing foam composite formula : by volume, 15–35% of PBDMS and 40–70% fluid (the gas resulting from the foaming process, generally carbon dioxide) the remainder being polyurethane. D3O's technology is found in many sports equipment such as body armor.\n\nBritish engineers Dr Phil Green and Richard Palmer discovered the material in 1999, first isolating it at the University of Hertfordshire. Palmer and Green went on to found the firm D3O Lab to develop and market the product. The company commercialized the D3O material in 2006. In 2009, the UK Ministry of Defence awarded D3O Lab £100,000 to fit helmets in order to reduce the kinetic energy of a bullet or shrapnel on impact, because of its moldable properties.\n\nD3O has been applied in the following areas:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3249945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3249945", "title": "Emin Valley", "text": "Emin Valley\n\nThe Emin Valley () is located on the China-Kazakhstan border, in Central Asia. It has an area of about . Its main waterway is the Emil River.\n\nAdministratively, the Emin Valley occupies areas of Tacheng Prefecture in the Xinjiang Region of north-western China; and in East Kazakhstan Province of eastern Kazakhstan.\n\nThe Emin Valley has a steppe ecosystem of mostly grasslands; with two saline lakes, Alakol and Sasykkol; and mountains with temperate climates.\n\nThe Emin Valley Steppe is a Palearctic ecoregion in the Temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands Biome. It lies within the vast and larger Eurasian Steppe.\n\nOrographically, the Emil Valley is an endorrheic basin. In the north, the Tarbagatai Mountains separate it from the Lake Zaysan basin, which is part of the basin of the Irtysh River, eventually draining into the Arctic Ocean. In the southeast, another series of mountain ranges separate it from the Dzungarian Basin (Gurbantünggüt Desert).\n\nThe Emin Valley's main watercourse is the Emin (Emil) River, which flows in the general western direction, receiving numerous streams flowing from the Tarbagatai Mountains and carrying their water to Lake Alakol.\n\nLake Alakol and Lake Sasykkol, situated in the western (Kazakhstan) part of the valley, are the homes of the rare Dalmatian pelican and relict gull.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8865423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8865423", "title": "Energy policy of India", "text": "Energy policy of India\n\nThe energy policy of India is largely defined by the country's expanding energy deficit and increased focus on developing alternative sources of energy, particularly nuclear, solar and wind energy. India ranks 81 position in overall energy self-sufficiency at 66% in 2014.\n\nThe primary energy consumption in India is the third biggest after China and USA with 5.6% global share in 2017. The total primary energy consumption from crude oil (221.1 Mtoe; 29.34%), natural gas (46.6 Mtoe; 6.18%), coal (424 Mtoe; 56.26%), nuclear energy (8.7 Mtoe; 1.15%), hydro electricity (30.7 Mtoe; 4.07%) and renewable power (21.8 Mtoe; 2.89%) is 753.7 Mtoe (excluding traditional biomass use) in the calendar year 2017. In 2017, India's net imports are nearly 198.8 million tons of crude oil and its products, 25.7 Mtoe of LNG and 129.8 Mtoe coal totaling to 354.3 Mtoe of primary energy which is equal to 47% of total primary energy consumption. About 75% of India's electricity generation is from fossil fuels. India is surplus in electricity generation and also marginal exporter of electricity in 2017. India is largely dependent on fossil fuel imports to meet its energy demands – by 2030, India's dependence on energy imports is expected to exceed 53% of the country's total energy consumption. In 2009-10, the country imported 159.26 million tonnes of crude oil which amounts to 80% of its domestic crude oil consumption and, in 2017 27.7% of the country's total imports were oil imports. By the end of calendar year 2015, India has become a power surplus country with huge power generation capacity idling for want of electricity demand. India ranks second after China in renewables production with 208.7 Mtoe in 2016.\n\nIn 2015-16, the per-capita energy consumption is 22.042 Giga Joules (0.527 Mtoe ) excluding traditional biomass use and the energy intensity of the Indian economy is 0.271 Mega Joules per INR (65 kcal/INR). Due to rapid economic expansion, India has one of the world's fastest growing energy markets and is expected to be the second-largest contributor to the increase in global energy demand by 2035, accounting for 18% of the rise in global energy consumption. Given India's growing energy demands and limited domestic oil and gas reserves, the country has ambitious plans to expand its renewable and most worked out nuclear power programme. India has the world's fourth largest wind power market and also plans to add about 100,000 MW of solar power capacity by 2020. India also envisages to increase the contribution of nuclear power to overall electricity generation capacity from 4.2% to 9% within 25 years. The country has five nuclear reactors under construction (third highest in the world) and plans to construct 18 additional nuclear reactors (second highest in the world) by 2025.\n\nIndian solar power PV tariff has fallen to per kWh in May 2017 which is lower than any other type of power generation in India. In the year 2016, the levelized tariff in US dollars for solar PV electricity has fallen below 2.42 cents/kWh. Also the international tariff of solar thermal storage power plants has fallen to US$0.063/kWh, which is cheaper than fossil fuel plants. The cheaper hybrid solar power (mix of solar PV and solar thermal storage power) need not depend on costly and polluting coal/gas fired power generation for ensuring stable grid operation. Solar electricity price is going to become the benchmark price for deciding the other fuel prices (petroleum products, natural gas/biogas/LNG, CNG, LPG, coal, lignite, biomass, etc.) based on their ultimate use and advantages.\n\nIndia ranks third in oil consumption with 212.7 million tons in 2016 after USA and China. During the calendar year 2015, India imported 195.1 million tons crude oil and 23.3 million tons refined petroleum products and exported 55 million tons refined petroleum products. India has built surplus world class refining capacity using imported crude oil for exporting refined petroleum products. The net imports of crude oil is lesser by one fourth after accounting exports and imports of refined petroleum products. Natural gas production was 29.2 billion cubic meters and consumption 50.6 billion cubic meters during the calendar year 2015.\n\nDuring the financial year 2012–13, the production of crude oil is 37.86 million tons and 40,679 million standard cubic meters (nearly 26.85 million tons) natural gas. The net import of crude oil & petroleum products is 146.70 million tons worth of Rs 5611.40 billions. This includes 9.534 million tons of LNG imports worth of Rs. 282.15 billions. Internationally, LNG price (One mmBtu of LNG = 0.1724 barrels of crude oil (boe) = 24.36 cubic meters of natural gas = 29.2 litres diesel = 21.3 kg LPG) is fixed below crude oil price in terms of heating value. LNG is slowly gaining its role as direct use fuel in road and marine transport without regasification. By the end of June 2016, LNG price has fallen by nearly 50% below its oil parity price making it more economical fuel than diesel/gas oil in transport sector. In 2012-13, India consumed 15.744 million tons petrol and 69.179 million tons diesel which are mainly produced from imported crude oil at huge foreign exchange out go. Use of natural gas for heating, cooking and electricity generation is not economical as more and more locally produced natural gas will be converted into LNG for use in transport sector to reduce crude oil imports. In addition to the conventional natural gas production, coal gasification, coal bed methane, coal mine methane and Biogas digesters / Renewable natural gas will also become source of LNG forming decentralised base for production of LNG to cater to the widely distributed demand. There is possibility to convert most of the heavy duty vehicles (including diesel driven rail engines) into LNG fuelled vehicles to reduce diesel consumption drastically with operational cost and least pollution benefits. Also, the break even price at user end for switching from imported coal to LNG in electricity generation is estimated near US$6/mmBtu. The advent of cheaper marine CNG transport will restrict LNG use in high end transport sector to replace costly liquid fuels leaving imported CNG use for other needs. As the marine CNG transport is economical for medium distance transport and has fast unloading flexibility at many ports without costly unloading facilities, they have become alternate solution to submarine gas pipelines.\n\nThe state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) acquired shares in oil fields in countries like Sudan, Syria, Iran, and Nigeria – investments that have led to diplomatic tensions with the United States. Because of political instability in the Middle East and increasing domestic demand for energy, India is keen on decreasing its dependency on OPEC to meet its oil demand, and increasing its energy security. Several Indian oil companies, primarily led by ONGC and Reliance Industries, have started a massive hunt for oil in several regions in India, including Rajasthan, Krishna Godavari Basin and north-eastern Himalayas. \n\nIndia has nearly 63 tcf technically recoverable resources of shale gas which can meet all its needs for twenty years if exploited. India is developing an offshore gas field in Mozambique. The proposed Iran-Pakistan-India pipeline is a part of India's plan to meet its increasing energy demand.\n\nIndia has the world's 4th largest coal reserves. In India, coal is the bulk of primary energy contributor with 56.90% share equivalent to 411.9 Mtoe in 2016. India is the third top coal producer in 2013 with 7.6% production share of coal (including lignite) in the world. Top five hard and brown coal producing countries in 2013 (2012) are (million tons): China 3,680 (3,645), United States 893 (922), India 605 (607), Australia 478 (453) and Indonesia 421 (386). However, India ranks fifth in global coal production at 228 mtoe (5.9%) in 2013 when its inferior quality coal tonnage is converted into tons of oil equivalent. Coal-fired power plants account for 59% of India's installed electricity capacity. After electricity production, coal is also used for cement production in substantial quantity. In 2013, India imported nearly 95 Mtoe of steam coal and coking coal which is 29% of total consumption to meet the demand in electricity, cement and steel production. Pet coke availability, at cheaper price to local coal, is replacing coal in cement plants.\n\nGasification of coal or lignite or pet coke produces syngas or coal gas or coke oven gas which is a mixture of hydrogen, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide gases. Coal gas can be converted into synthetic natural gas (SNG) by using Fischer–Tropsch process at low pressure and high temperature. Coal gas can also be produced by underground coal gasification where the coal deposits are located deep in the ground or uneconomical to mine the coal. CNG and LNG are emerging as economical alternatives to diesel oil with the escalation in international crude oil prices. Synthetic natural gas production technologies have tremendous scope to meet the transport sector requirements fully using the locally available coal in India. Dankuni coal complex is producing syngas which is piped to the industrial users in Calcutta. Many coal based fertiliser plants which are shut down can also be retrofitted economically to produce SNG as LNG and CNG fetch good price by substituting imports. Recently, Indian government fixed the natural gas price at producer end as US$5.61 per mmbtu on net calorific value (NCV) basis, which is at par with the estimated SNG price from coal.\n\nGasification of bio mass yields wood gas or syngas which can be converted into substitute natural gas by Methanation. Nearly 750 million tons of non edible (by cattle) biomass is available annually in India which can be put to higher value addition use and substitute imported crude oil, coal, LNG, urea fertiliser, nuclear fuels, etc. It is estimated that renewable and carbon neutral biomass resources of India can replace present consumption of all fossil fuels when used productively.\n\nHuge quantity of imported coal is being used in pulverised coal-fired power stations. Raw biomass can not be used in the pulverised coal mills as they are difficult to grind into fine powder due to caking property of raw biomass. However biomass can be used after Torrefaction in the pulverised coal mills for replacing imported coal. North west and southern regions can replace imported coal use with torrefied biomass where surplus agriculture/crop residual biomass is available. Biomass power plants can also get extra income by selling the Renewable Purchase Certificates (RPC).\n\nIn cement production, carbon neutral biomass is being used to replace coal for reducing carbon foot print drastically.\n\nBiogas or natural gas or methane produced from farm/agro/crop/domestic waste can also be used for producing protein rich feed for cattle/fish/poultry/pet animals economically by cultivating \"Methylococcus capsulatus\" bacteria culture in a decentralised manner near to the rural / consumption areas with tiny land and water foot print. With the availability of CO gas as by product from these units, cheaper production cost of algae oil from algae or spirulina particularly in tropical countries like India would displace the prime position of crude oil in near future. \n\nIndia’s three Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) are currently setting up 12 second-generation ethanol plants across the country which will collect agriculture waste from farmers and convert it into bio-ethanol. In 2018, India has set target to produce 15 million tons of biogas/bio-CNG by installing 5,000 large scale commercial type biogas plants which can produce daily 12.5 tons of bio-CNG by each plant.\n\nThe former President of India, Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, was a strong advocaters of Jatropha cultivation for production of bio-diesel. He said that out of the 6,00,000 km² of waste land that is available in India over 3,00,000 km² is suitable for Jatropha cultivation. Once the plant is grown, it has a useful lifespan of several decades. During its life Jatropha requires very little water when compared to other cash crops. A plan for supplying incentives to encourage the use of Jatropha has been coloured with green stripes.\n\nIndia boasts a quickly advancing and active nuclear power programme. It is expected to have 20 GW of nuclear capacity by 2020, though it currently stands as 9th in the world in terms of nuclear capacity.\n\nAn Achilles' heel of the Indian nuclear power programme, however, is the fact that India is not a signatory of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. This has many times in its history prevented it from obtaining nuclear technology vital to expanding its nuclear industry. Another consequence of this is that much of its programme has been domestically developed much like its nuclear weapons programme. The United States-India Peaceful Atomic Energy Cooperation Act seems to be a way to get access to advanced nuclear technologies for India.\nIndia has been using imported enriched uranium and is under International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards, but it has developed various aspects of the nuclear fuel cycle to support its reactors. Development of select technologies has been strongly affected by limited imports. Use of heavy-water reactors has been particularly attractive for the nation because it allows uranium to be burnt with little to no enrichment. India has also done a great amount of work in the development of a thorium-centred fuel cycle. While uranium deposits in the nation are extremely limited, there are much greater reserves of thorium, and it could provide hundreds of times the energy with the same mass of fuel. The fact that thorium can theoretically be utilised in heavy water reactors has tied the development of the two. A prototype reactor that would burn uranium-plutonium fuel while irradiating a thorium blanket is under construction at the Madras/Kalpakkam Atomic Power Station.\n\nUranium used for the weapons programme has been separate from the power programme using uranium from scant indigenous reserves.\n\nIndia is endowed with economically exploitable and viable hydro potential assessed to be about 125,570 MW at 60% capacity factor. India ranked fourth globally by underutilized hydro power potential. In addition, 6,780 MW in terms of installed capacity from Small, Mini, and Micro Hydel schemes have been assessed. Also, 56 sites for pumped storage schemes with an aggregate installed capacity of 94,000 MW have been identified for catering to peak electricity demand and water pumping for irrigation needs. It is the most widely used form of renewable energy but the economically exploitable hydro power potential keeps on varying due to technological developments and the comparable cost of electricity generation from other sources. The hydro-electric potential of India ranks 5th in terms of exploitable hydro-potential on global scenario.\n\nThe installed capacity of hydro power is 45,315 MW as of 31 May 2018. India ranks sixth in hydro electricity generation globally after China, Canada, Brazil, USA and Russia. During the year 2017-18, the total hydro electricity generation in India is 126.123 billion kWh which works out to 24,000 MW at 60% capacity factor. Till now, hydroelectricity sector is dominated by the state and central government owned companies but this sector is going to grow faster with the participation of private sector for developing the hydro potential located in the Himalaya mountain ranges including north east of India. However the hydro power potential in central India forming part of Godavari, Mahanadi and Narmada river basins has not yet been developed on major scale due to potential opposition from the tribal population.\n\nPumped storage schemes are perfect centralised peaking power stations for the load management in the electricity grid. Pumped storage schemes would be in high demand for meeting peak load demand and storing the surplus electricity as India graduates from electricity deficit to electricity surplus. They also produce secondary /seasonal power at no additional cost when rivers are flooding with excess water. Storing electricity by other alternative systems such as batteries, compressed air storage systems, etc. is more costlier than electricity production by standby generator. India has already established nearly 6800 MW pumped storage capacity which is part of its installed hydro power plants.\n\nIndia has the fourth largest installed wind power capacity in the world. As of 31 December 2017, the installed capacity of wind power was 32,848 MW an increase of 4148 MW over the previous year Wind power accounts nearly 10% of India's total installed power generation capacity and generated 52.666 billion kWh in the fiscal year 2017-18 which is nearly 3% of total electricity generation. The capacity utilisation factor is nearly 16% in the fiscal year 2017-18. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) of India has announced a revised estimation of the potential wind power resource (excluding offshore wind power potential) from 49,130 MW assessed at 50m Hub heights to 102,788 MW assessed at 80m Hub height at 15% capacity factor.\n\nIndia's solar energy insolation is about 5,000 T kWh per year (i.e. ~ 600 TW), far more than its current total primary energy consumption. India's long-term solar potential could be unparalleled in the world because it has the ideal combination of both high solar insolation and a big potential consumer base density.\nWith a major section of its citizens still surviving off-grid, India's grid system is considerably under-developed. Availability of cheap solar can bring electricity to people, and bypass the need of installation of expensive grid lines.\nAlso a major factor influencing a region's energy intensity is the cost of energy consumed for temperature control. Since cooling load requirements are roughly in phase with the sun's intensity, cooling from intense solar radiation could make perfect energy-economic sense in the subcontinent, whenever the required technology becomes competitively cheaper.\n\nInstallation of solar power PV plants require nearly 2.0 hectares (5 acres) land per MW capacity which is similar to coal-fired power plants when life cycle coal mining, consumptive water storage & ash disposal areas are also accounted and hydro power plants when submergence area of water reservoir is also accounted. 1.6 million MW capacity solar plants can be installed in India on its 1% land (32,000 square km). There are vast tracts of land suitable for solar power in all parts of India exceeding 8% of its total area which are unproductive barren and devoid of vegetation. Part of waste lands (32,000 square km) when installed with solar power plants can produce 2400 billion kWh of electricity (two times the total generation in 2013-14) with land productivity/yield of 0.9 million Rs per acre (3 Rs/kWh price) which is at par with many industrial areas and many times more than the best productive irrigated agriculture lands. Moreover, these solar power units are not dependent on supply of any raw material and are self productive. There is unlimited scope for solar electricity to replace all fossil fuel energy requirements (natural gas, coal, lignite and crude oil) if all the marginally productive lands are occupied by solar power plants in future. The solar power potential of India can meet perennially to cater per capita energy consumption at par with USA/Japan for the peak population in its demographic transition.\n\nSolar thermal power\n\nThe installed capacity of commercial solar thermal power plants in India is 227.5 MW with 50 MW in Andhra Pradesh and 177.5 MW in Rajasthan. Solar thermal plants are emerging as cheaper (US 6.1 ¢/kWh) and clean load following power plants compared to fossil fuel power plants. They can cater the load/ demand perfectly and work as base load power plants when the extracted solar energy is found excess in a day. Proper mix of solar thermal and solar PV can fully match the load fluctuations without the need of costly battery storage.\n\nSynergy with irrigation water pumping and hydro power stations\n\nThe major disadvantage of solar power (PV type only) is that it can not produce electricity during the night time and cloudy day time also. In India, this disadvantage can be overcome by installing pumped-storage hydroelectricity stations. Ultimate electricity requirement for river water pumping (excluding ground water pumping) is 570 billion kWh to pump one cubic meter of water for each square meter area by 125 m height on average for irrigating 140 million hectares of net sown area (42% of total land) for three crops in a year. This is achieved by utilising all the usable river waters by interlinking Indian rivers by envisaging coastal reservoirs. These river water pumping stations would also be envisaged with pumped-storage hydroelectricity features to generate electricity when necessary to stabilise the grid. Also, all existing and future hydro power stations can be expanded with additional pumped-storage hydroelectricity units to cater night time electricity consumption. Most of the ground water pumping power can be met directly by solar power during daytime. To achieve food security, India needs to achieve water security which is possible only by energy security for harnessing its water resources.\n\nElectric vehicles\n\nThe retail prices of petrol and diesel are high in India to make electricity driven vehicles more economical as more and more electricity is generated from solar energy in near future without appreciable environmental effects. During the year 2013, many IPPs offered to sell solar power below 6.50 Rs/kWh to feed into the low voltage (< 33 KV) grid. This price is below the affordable electricity retail tariff for the solar power to replace petrol and diesel use in transport sector.\n\nThe retail price of diesel is 53.00 Rs/litre in 2012-13. The affordable electricity retail price (860 kcal/kWh at 75% input electricity to shaft power efficiency) to replace diesel (lower heating value 8572 kcal/litre at 40% fuel energy to crank shaft efficiency) is 9.97 Rs/kWh. The retail price of petrol is 75.00 Rs/litre in 2012-13. The affordable electricity retail price (860 kcal/kWh at 75% input electricity to shaft power efficiency) to replace petrol (lower heating value 7693 kcal/litre at 33% fuel energy to crank shaft efficiency) is 19.06 Rs/kWh. In 2012-13, India consumed 15.744 million tons petrol and 69.179 million tons diesel which are mainly produced from imported crude oil at huge foreign exchange out go.\n\nV2G is also feasible with electricity driven vehicles to contribute for catering to the peak load in the electricity grid. The electricity driven vehicles would become popular in future when its energy storage / battery technology becomes more compact, lesser density, longer lasting and maintenance free.\n\nHydrogen Energy programme started in India after joining the IPHE (International Partnership for Hydrogen Economy) in\nthe year 2003. There are nineteen other countries including Australia, United States, UK, Japan, etc. This global partnership helps India to set up commercial use of Hydrogen gas as an energy source. Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) is the focal government agency associated with hydrogen energy development in India.\n\nHydrogen is a carbon neutral fuel. Solar electricity prices in India have already fallen below the affordable price (≈ INR 5.00 per Kwh to generate 0.041 lb/Kwh hydrogen which is equivalent to 0.071 litres of petrol in terms of lower heating value) to make hydrogen economical fuel by sourcing from electrolysis of water to replace petrol/gasoline as transport fuel. Vehicles with fuel cell technology based on hydrogen gas are nearly twice more efficient compared to diesel/petrol fuelled engines. A luxury hydrogen fuel cell car generates one litre of bottled quality drinking water for every 10 km ride which is a significant by product. Any medium or heavy duty vehicle can be retrofitted in to fuel cell vehicle as its system power density (watts/litre) and system specific power (watts/kg) are comparable with that of internal combustion engine. The cost and durability of fuel cell engines with economies of scale production line are comparable with the petrol/diesel engines.\n\nThe excess power generation capacity available in India is nearly 500 billion units/year presently and another 75,000 MW conventional power generating capacity is in pipeline excluding the targeted 175,000 MW renewable power by 2022. The hydrogen fuel generated by 500 billion units of electricity can replace all diesel and petrol consumed by heavy and medium duty vehicles in India completely obviating the need of crude oil imports for internal consumption. Converting petrol/diesel driven road vehicles in to fuel cell electric vehicles on priority would save the huge import cost of crude oil and transform the stranded electricity infrastructure in to productive assets with major boost to the overall economic growth.\n\nThe net import of LPG is 6.093 million tons and the domestic consumption is 13.568 million tons with Rs. 41,546 crores subsidy to the domestic consumers in 2012-13. The LPG import content is nearly 40% of total consumption in India. The affordable electricity retail price (860 kcal/kWh at 90% heating efficiency) to replace LPG (lower heating value 11,000 kcal/kg at 75% heating efficiency) in domestic cooking is 6.47 Rs/kWh when the retail price of LPG cylinder is Rs 1000 (without subsidy) with 14.2 kg LPG content. Replacing LPG consumption with electricity reduces its imports substantially.\n\nThe domestic consumption of Kerosene is 7.349 million tons with Rs. 30,151 crores subsidy to the domestic consumers in 2012-13. The subsidised retail price of Kerosene is 13.69 Rs/litre whereas the export/import price is 48.00 Rs/litre. The affordable electricity retail price(860 kcal/kWh at 90% heating efficiency) to replace Kerosene (lower heating value 8240 kcal/litre at 75% heating efficiency) in domestic cooking is 6.00 Rs/kWh when Kerosene retail price is 48 Rs/litre (without subsidy).\n\nDuring the year 2013-14, The plant load factor (PLF) of coal-fired thermal power stations is only 65.43% whereas these stations can run above 85% PLF comfortably provided there is adequate electricity demand in the country. The additional electricity generation at 85% PLF is nearly 240 billion units which is adequate to replace all the LPG and Kerosene consumption in domestic sector. The incremental cost of generating additional electricity is only their coal fuel cost which is less than 3 Rs/kWh. Enhancing the PLF of coal-fired stations and encouraging domestic electricity consumers to substitute electricity in place of LPG and Kerosene in household cooking, would reduce the government subsidies and idle capacity of thermal power stations can be put to use economically. The domestic consumers who are willing to surrender the subsidised LPG / Kerosene permits or eligible for subsidised LPG / Kerosene permits, may be given free electricity connection and subsidised electricity tariff.\n\nDuring the year 2014, IPPs are offering to sell solar power below 5.50 Rs/kWh to feed into the high voltage grid. This price is below the affordable electricity tariff for the solar power to replace LPG and Kerosene use (after including subsidy on LPG & Kerosene) in domestic sector. Two wheelers and three wheelers consume 62% and 6% of petrol respectively in India. The saved LPG/Autogas replaced by electricity in domestic sector can be used by two and three wheelers with operational cost and least pollution benefits. By the middle of 2016, LPG spot prices have fallen below crude oil parity price in terms of heat content (one barrel crude oil is equal to 123.5 kg of LPG) due to LPG glut in the market Instead of using LPG as heating fuel in domestic sector, for higher end usage, LPG can be also converted into alkylate which is a premium gasoline blending stock because it has exceptional antiknock properties and gives clean burning.\n\nThe Methane / natural gas generated from water with electricity, can be utilized to produce protein rich feed for fish/poultry/cattle which is known as power to food\n\nThe per capita electricity consumption is low compared to many countries despite cheaper electricity tariff in India. Despite low electricity per capita consumption in India, the country is going to achieve surplus electricity generation during the 12th plan (2012 to 2017) period provided its coal production and transport infrastructure is developed adequately. India has been exporting electricity to Bangladesh and Nepal and importing excess electricity in Bhutan. Surplus electricity can be exported to the neighbouring countries in return for natural gas supplies from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar.\n\nBangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan are producing substantial natural gas and using for electricity generation purpose. Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan produce 55 million cubic metres per day (mcmd), 9 mcmd and 118 mcmd out of which 20 mcmd, 1.4 mcmd and 34 mcmd are consumed for electricity generation respectively. Whereas the natural gas production in India is not even adequate to meet its non-electricity requirements.\n\nBangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan have proven reserves of 200 billion cubic metres (bcm), 1200 bcm and 500 bcm respectively. There is ample opportunity for mutually beneficial trading in energy resources with these countries. India can supply its surplus electricity to Pakistan and Bangladesh in return for the natural gas imports by gas pipe lines. Similarly India can develop on BOOT basis hydro power projects in Bhutan, Nepal and Myanmar. India can also enter into long term power purchase agreements with China for developing the hydro power potential in Brahmaputra river basin of Tibet region. India can also supply its surplus electricity to Sri Lanka by undersea cable link. There is ample trading synergy for India with its neighbouring countries in securing its energy requirements.\n\nIn general, India's strategy is the encouragement of the development of renewable sources of energy by the use of incentives by the federal and state governments. Other examples of encouragement by incentive include the use of nuclear energy (India Nuclear Cooperation Promotion Act), promoting windfarms such as Muppandal, and solar energy (Ralegaon Siddhi).\n\nA long-term energy policy perspective is provided by the Integrated Energy Policy Report 2006 which provides policy guidance on energy-sector growth. Increasing energy consumption associated primarily with activities in transport, mining, and manufacturing in India needs rethinking on India's energy production.\n\nRecent steep fall in international oil prices due to shale oil production boom, would tilt the energy policy in favour of crude oil / natural gas.\n\nThe installed capacity of utility power plants is 314.64 GW as on 31 January 2017 and the gross electricity generated by utilities during the year 2015-16 is 1168.359 billion kWh which includes auxiliary power consumption of power generating stations. The installed capacity of captive power plants in industries (1 MW and above) is 50,289 MW as on 31 March 2017 and generated 197 billion kWh in the financial year 2016-17. In addition, there are nearly 75,000 MW aggregate capacity diesel generator sets with units sizes between 100 KVA and 1000 KVA. All India per capita consumption of Electricity is nearly 1,122 kWh during the financial year 2016-17.\n\nTotal installed Power generation Capacity (end of April 2017)\n\nThe total installed utility power generation capacity as on 30 April 2017 with sector wise & type wise break up is as given below.\n\nNotes: Coal includes lignite also; na → data not available;\n\nThe total generation from all renewable energy sources is nearly 15% of the total electricity generation (utility and captive) in India.\n\nEnergy conservation has emerged as a major policy objective, and the Energy Conservation Act 2001, was passed by the Indian Parliament in September 2001, 35.5% of the population still live without access to electricity. This Act requires large energy consumers to adhere to energy consumption norms; new buildings to follow the Energy Conservation Building Code; and appliances to meet energy performance standards and to display energy consumption labels. The Act also created the Bureau of Energy Efficiency to implement the provisions of the Act. In 2015, Prime Minister Mr. Modi launched a scheme called \nPrakash Path urging people to use LED lamps in place of other lamps to drastically cut down lighting power requirement. Energy efficient fans at subsidised price are offered to the electricity consumers by the electricity distribution companies (DisComs) to decrease peak electricity load.\n\n\nThe electricity industry was restructured by the Electricity Act 2003, which unbundled the vertically integrated electricity supply utilities in each state of India into a transmission utility, and a number of generating and distribution utilities. Electricity Regulatory Commissions in each state set tariffs for electricity sales. The Act also enables open access on the transmission system, allowing any consumer (with a load of greater than 1 MW) to buy electricity from any generator. Significantly, it also requires each Regulatory Commission to specify the minimum percentage of electricity that each distribution utility must source from renewable energy sources.\n\nThe introduction of Availability based tariff has brought about stability to a great extent in the Indian transmission grids. However, presently it is becoming outdated in a power surplus grid. A report in 2005 suggested that there was room for improvement in terms of the efficiency of electricity generation in India, and suggested that two factors possibly responsible for the inefficiency were public ownership of utilities and low capacity utilisation.\n\nUp to 31 December 2016, only 133,177,143 rural house holds are provided with electricity which is 74% of total 179,231,219 rural house holds.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20122770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20122770", "title": "Energy technology", "text": "Energy technology\n\nEnergy technology is an interdisciplinary engineering science having to do with the efficient, safe, environmentally friendly and economical extraction, conversion, transportation, storage and use of energy, targeted towards yielding high efficiency whilst skirting side effects on humans, nature and the environment.\n\nFor people, energy is an overwhelming need and as a scarce resource it has been an underlying cause of political conflicts and wars. The gathering and use of energy resources can be harmful to local ecosystems and may have global outcomes.\n\nAs an interdisciplinary science Energy technology is linked with many interdisciplinary fields in sundry, overlapping ways.\n\n\nElectric power engineering deals with the production and use of electrical energy, which can entail the study of machines such as generators, electric motors and transformers. Infrastructure involves substations and transformer stations, power lines and electrical cable. Load management and power management over networks have meaningful sway on overall energy efficiency. Electric heating is also widely used and researched.\n\nThermodynamics deals with the fundamental laws of energy conversion and is drawn from theoretical Physics.\n\nThermal and chemical energy are intertwined with chemistry and environmental studies. Combustion has to do with burners and chemical engines of all kinds, grates and incinerators along with their energy efficiency, pollution and operational safety.\n\nExhaust gas purification technology aims to lessen air pollution through sundry mechanical, thermal and chemical cleaning methods. Emission control technology is a field of process and chemical engineering. Boiler technology deals with the design, construction and operation of steam boilers and turbines (also used in nuclear power generation, see below), drawn from applied mechanics and materials engineering.\n\nEnergy conversion has to do with internal combustion engines, turbines, pumps, fans and so on, which are used for transportation, mechanical energy and power generation. High thermal and mechanical loads bring about operational safety worries which are dealt with through many branches of applied engineering science.\n\nNuclear technology deals with nuclear power production from nuclear reactors, along with the processing of nuclear fuel and disposal of radioactive waste, drawing from applied nuclear physics, nuclear chemistry and radiation science.\n\nNuclear power generation has been politically controversial in many countries for several decades but the electrical energy produced through nuclear fission is of worldwide importance. There are high hopes that fusion technologies will one day replace most fission reactors but this is still a research area of nuclear physics.\n\nRenewable energy has many branches.\n\n\nWind turbines draw energy from atmospheric currents and are designed using aerodynamics along with knowledge taken from mechanical and electrical engineering.\n\nWhere it can be had, geothermal energy is used for heating and electricity.\n\nHydropower draws mechanical energy from rivers, ocean waves and tides. Civil engineering is used to study and build dams, tunnels, waterways and manage coastal resources through hydrology and geology. A low speed water turbine spun by flowing water can power an electrical generator to produce electricity.\n\nBioenergy deals with the gathering, processing and use of biomasses grown in biological manufacturing, agriculture and forestry from which power plants can draw burning fuel. Ethanol, methanol (both controversial) or hydrogen for fuel cells can be had from these technologies and used to generate electricity.\n\nHeat pumps and Thermal energy storage are classes of technologies that can enable the utilization of renewable energy sources that would otherwise be inaccessible due to a temperature that is too low for utilization or a time lag between when the energy is available and when it is needed. While enhancing the temperature of available renewable thermal energy, heat pumps have the additional property of leveraging electrical power (or in some cases mechanical or thermal power) by using it to extract additional energy from a low quality source (such as seawater, lake water, the ground, the air, or waste heat from a process).\n\nThermal storage technologies allow heat or cold to be stored for periods of time ranging from hours or overnight to interseasonal, and can involve storage of sensible energy (i.e. by changing the temperature of a medium) or latent energy (i.e. through phase changes of a medium, such between water and slush or ice). Short-term thermal storages can be used for peak-shaving in district heating or electrical distribution systems. Kinds of renewable or alternative energy sources that can be enabled include natural energy (e.g. collected via solar-thermal collectors, or dry cooling towers used to collect winter's cold), waste energy (e.g. from HVAC equipment, industrial processes or power plants), or surplus energy (e.g. as seasonally from hyropower projects or intermittently from wind farms). The Drake Landing Solar Community (Alberta, Canada) is illustrative. borehole thermal energy storage allows the community to get 97% of its year-round heat from solar collectors on the garage roofs, which most of the heat collected in summer. Types of storages for sensible energy include insulated tanks, borehole clusters in substrates ranging from gravel to bedrock, deep aquifers, or shallow lined pits that are insulated on top. Some types of storage are capable of storing heat or cold between opposing seasons (particularly if very large), and some storage applications require inclusion of a heat pump. Latent heat is typically stored in ice tanks or what are called phase-change materials (PCMs).\n\n"}
{"id": "5152787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5152787", "title": "Europium anomaly", "text": "Europium anomaly\n\nThe Europium anomaly is the phenomenon whereby the europium (Eu) concentration in a mineral is either enriched or depleted relative to some standard, commonly a chondrite or mid-ocean ridge basalt (MORB). In geochemistry a europium anomaly is said to be \"positive\" if the Eu concentration in the mineral is enriched relative to the other rare-earth elements (REEs) and is said to be \"negative\" if Eu is depleted relative to the other REEs. \n\nWhile all lanthanides form relatively large trivalent (3+) ions, Eu and cerium (Ce) have additional valences, europium forms 2+ ions, and Ce forms 4+ ions, leading to chemical reaction differences in how these ions can partition versus the 3+ REEs. In the case of Eu, its reduced divalent (2+) cations are similar in size and carry the same charge as Ca, an ion found in plagioclase and other minerals. While Eu is an incompatible element in its trivalent form (Eu) in an oxidizing magma, it is preferentially incorporated into plagioclase in its divalent form (Eu) in a reducing magma where it substitutes for calcium (Ca).\n\nEnrichment or depletion is generally attributed to europium's tendency to be incorporated into plagioclase preferentially over other minerals. If a magma crystallizes stable plagioclase, most of the Eu will be incorporated into this mineral causing a higher than expected concentration of Eu in the mineral versus other REE in that mineral (a positive anomaly). The rest of the magma will then be relatively depleted in Eu with a concentration of Eu lower than expected versus the concentrations of other REEs in that magma. If the Eu-depleted magma is then separated from its plagioclase crystals and subsequently solidifies, its chemical composition will display a negative Eu anomaly (because the Eu is locked up in the plagioclase left in the magma chamber). Conversely, if a magma \"accumulates\" plagioclase crystals before solidification, its rock composition will display a relatively positive Eu anomaly.\n\nA well-known example of the Eu anomaly is seen on the moon. REE analyses of the moon's light-colored lunar highlands show a large positive Eu anomaly due to the plagioclase-rich anorthosite comprising the highlands. The darker lunar mare, consisting mainly of basalt, shows a large negative Eu anomaly. This has led geologists to speculate as to the genetic relationship between the lunar highlands and mare. It is possible that much of the moon's Eu was incorporated into the earlier, plagioclase-rich highlands, leaving the later basaltic mare strongly depleted in Eu.\n\n"}
{"id": "71479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71479", "title": "Feersum Endjinn", "text": "Feersum Endjinn\n\nFeersum Endjinn is a science fiction novel by Scottish writer Iain M. Banks, first published in 1994. It won a British Science Fiction Association Award in 1994.\n\nThe novel is sometimes referred to as Banks' second science fiction novel not set within the Culture universe, the first being \"Against a Dark Background\".\n\nThe book is set on a far future Earth where the uploading of mindstates into a world-spanning computer network (known as \"Cryptosphere\", \"the Data Corpus\", or simply \"Crypt\") is commonplace, allowing the dead to be easily reincarnated, a set number of times, first physically and then virtually within the crypt. The crypt has become increasingly chaotic, causing much concern within society. Much of the story takes place within a giant, decaying megastructure known as the \"Fastness\" or \"Serehfa\" built to resemble a medieval castle, in which each \"room\" spans several kilometers horizontally and vertically, and the king's palace occupies one room's chandelier. The structure used to be a space elevator, left behind by the ancestors of those who remained on earth, with the circuitry of the crypt built into its structure. The world is in crisis as the solar system is slowly drifting into an interstellar molecular cloud (\"the Encroachment\"), which will eventually dim and then destroy the Sun, ending life on Earth.\n\nThe narrative switches between four main characters. Count Sessine is a high-ranking member of the court who is assassinated, ending his last life. Reborn inside the crypt he comes under repeated attack and is almost permanently killed. On his last virtual life, he makes contact with a copy of himself who assists him. He spends many subjective years wandering the wider reaches of the crypt before being contacted by its representative who requests his aid in relation to the encroachment.\n\nGadfium, the Chief Scientist of the ruling class, is engaged in a conspiracy with like-minded nobles who believe that the elite are not acting in the best interests of the population, and who question the real motive of the ongoing war with the rival clan of Engineers. She becomes aware of a message that has apparently been sent from the fast tower, the highest, inaccessible part of the castle which stresses the danger of the Encroachment and tells of an attempt by the crypt to activate a long forgotten sub system which may prevent disaster. The message also warns that this will be opposed by those in power as it will threaten their interests. She and her fellow conspirators are considering how to respond when the security forces attempt to arrest them, although Gadfium manages to escape into the depths of the castle.\n\nBascule the Teller is a young man who contacts the dead personalities within the crypt on behalf of their relatives or other interested parties. Whilst searching for a lost friend, he attracts the attention of the Security forces and takes refuge with various chimeric animals whose implants have taken on personalities from the within the crypt. He is eventually tasked with ascending the central shaft of the highest tower in a vacuum balloon in order to reach its control room.\n\nAsura is a young woman who awakens in an re-incarnation facility with no memory. She is compelled to travel towards the castle, rapidly gathering knowledge about the world before being captured by the security forces. She is interrogated within the crypt, but is able to resist the questioning, becoming stronger at understanding and manipulating her virtual environments. As she escapes her virtual prison, she is physically freed by Gadfium, assisted by the copy of Count Sessine who had guided her to Asura's location. Asura broadcasts to the world the truth regarding the encroachment and the attempts of the monarchy to prevent the activation of the crypt sub-systems. She explains her origin, being an emissary of the crypt that was combined with the mind of Count Sessine who sacrificed himself in the process. She was created by the crypt because the relevant systems were kept separate by their designers to prevent infection by chaos. The so-called chaotic elements of the crypt are a burgeoning ecology of Artificial Intelligences. Asura states that both the humans and chaos will have to learn to live with each other. Asura and Gadfium depart, reaching an elevator which is activated for them by Bascule after reaching the control room at the summit of the tower. Asura is able to activate the \"Fearsome Engine\" of the title, which begins the slow process of relocating the solar system out of reach of the cloud.\n\nA quarter of the book is told by Bascule the Teller and is written phonetically in the first person using phonetic transcription and shorthand (also evinced in the novel's title). No dialect words are used, but there are (inconsistent) hints of a Scottish and a Cockney accent.\n\nThe fourth chapter of the book's Part One opens with:\n\"Feersum Endjinn\" was generally well-received, the completeness of the plot and the detailed description of the mega-architecture and the crypt were praised by critics.\n\nLiterary critic and historian Ian Duncan has argued that Banks’s ‘fearsome engine’, like his bridge, “is another allegory of the state, except that this apparatus is not just sublime in its dissociation from human accountability – it is omniscient, providential, and even organic.” \"Kirkus Reviews\" described it as \"Dazzling stuff: a shame it doesn't add up.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1958164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1958164", "title": "Flora and fauna of the Discworld", "text": "Flora and fauna of the Discworld\n\nTerry Pratchett's fictional Discworld has a large number of creatures and plants unique to it or its parasite universes (such as Fairyland or Death's Domain).\n\nA big cat with a unique black and white check coat, the ambiguous puzuma is the Disc's fastest animal. Due to the Disc's standing magical field, which slows down light to approximately the speed of sound, the puzuma can actually achieve near-light-speed. Therefore, seeing a puzuma in motion means it isn't there. Puzumas commonly die from complications caused by Sangrit Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle; they lose concentration because they cannot simultaneously know who they are and where they are, frequently causing them to crash into an obstacle. Many males also die from ankle failure caused by excessively running after females who aren't present.\n\nA giant and nearly extinct snake, seen in \"Sourcery\". It has similar powers to a traditional basilisk, such as deadly venom and the ability to kill something by looking at it. When the basilisk in \"Sourcery\" met the Luggage, it attempted to stare the Luggage to death. However, thanks to the luggage's penetrating eyeless stare, the basilisk was unable to win the resulting staring contest, and was forced to blink. It was then killed by the Luggage.\n\nA bookworm that has evolved in magical libraries. Because of the constant danger of running into a volume containing spells (which release thaumic radiation), the .303 caliber bookworm eats quickly. So quickly, in fact, that it has been known to ricochet off walls after boring through a shelf of books. It is the second fastest thing on the Disc (the fastest being Casanunda in a nunnery).\n\nA parody of the chimera of Greek mythology, an archetypal Greek \"hybrid monster\". The Discworld chimera pastiches this by having, according to a bestiary quoted in \"Sourcery\", \"thee legges of a mermaide, the hair of a tortoise, the teeth of a fowel and the winges of a snake. Of course, I have only my worde for it, the beast having the breathe of a furnace and the temperament of a rubber balloon in a hurricane.\"\n\nThe chimera is native to Klatch, but is a very rare species. The only one seen in the books made itself rarer by attacking the Luggage.\n\nA cuckoo that builds clocks to impress potential mates (compare bowerbird). The clocks, however, keep lousy time, and thus cannot be seen as evidence for an intelligent designer.\n\nA small species of squid, whose curiosity exceeds their ability at making connections. They are small, harmless and reckoned by many experts to have the foulest taste of any creature in the world. Due to this they are in great demand at a certain type of restaurant where skilled chefs with great care make dishes containing no trace of the squid at all (a spoof on fugu). Apparently the only place they can be found is in the area around the sunken island of Leshp, in the Circle Sea, approximately halfway between Al-Khali and Ankh-Morpork.\n\nDragons are a genus of reptiles which apparently evolved from a group of \"Draco lunaris\" on the Disc's Moon.\n\nPossibly the original species of dragon, these Moon Dragons inhabit the Disc's moon. They are quite similar to \"Draco vulgaris\", but have silver scales and flame from their rears. This allows them flight by means of the rocket principle. They subsist on a silvery plant which apparently covers much of the Moon and glows by means of phosphorescence, creating moonlight. This species is seen in \"The Last Hero\". Errol from Guards! Guards! could also be an atavism to this species as by the end of the book he had turned pale from neck down and started flying around by shooting flame from his rear.\n\nNoble Dragons are the large, graceful fire-breathing creatures of legend. Probably evolved from \"Draco vulgaris\", these dragons use magic to combat the physical laws that would normally kill a flapping-winged creature weighing several tons and spitting burning substances. Because this requires more magic than the Discworld can in normal circumstances provide, \"Draco nobilis\" now exist mostly in a parasite universe closely connected to the human imagination. They can be briefly released from this universe by a sufficient expenditure of magic, or summoned on a more permanent basis in areas of high background magic. Examples of this can be found in \"The Colour of Magic\" and \"Guards! Guards!\"\n\nThe Star-voyaging Dragon is massive even when compared to \"Draco nobilis\". Like \"Draco lunaris\", this species flames from the rear to achieve propulsion. Their food is the various debris they trawl from the voids they travel. Smaller dragons voyage by attaching themselves to the hide of this species, much like the remora. The species was first observed by Leonard of Quirm during the events of \"The Last Hero\", which may mean that they are either quite rare or avoid positioning themselves so as to be visible from the Disc. A hibernating specimen was viewed by Tethis during his involuntary interstellar sojourn in \"The Colour of Magic\".\n\nSwamp Dragons \"(Draco vulgaris)\" are small, fly badly and tend to explode, due to the generation of various flammable gases in their internal plumbing. They are, in short, dragons as they would have to be in order to work in reality. Swamp dragons are inexplicably popular as pets, and there are a number of different breeds. They will eat and drink anything that can be used as or converted to fuel for fire-breathing (and as such are fond of coal and fuel oil), and they have a corrosive saliva.\n\nA male Swamp Dragon is called a \"pewmet\" between hatching and eight months, a \"cock\" between eight and fourteen months, a \"snood\" between fourteen months and two years, and a \"cobb\" between two years and death. A female Swamp Dragon is called a \"hen\" until her third clutch, and a \"dam\" thereafter. A dead Swamp Dragon of either sex is called a \"crater\". A group of swamp dragons is called either a \"slump\" or an \"embarrassment\". During mating season, male Swamp Dragons will compete when they see each other by attempting to inflate themselves as large as possible (hopefully without exploding). Because of this, dragon owners are discouraged from keeping mirrors.\n\nThe portrayal of dragon-breeders (such as Lady Sybil Ramkin) in the books is a parody of \"horsey\" upper-class people, although there are also similarities to pedigree dog-breeding (in particular, the Ankh-Morpork Cavern Club is a parody of Kennel clubs.) However, due to the nature of the creatures, a dragon house is typically constructed as one would an ammunition dump.\n\nIn \"The Colour of Magic\", a brief line suggests that Swamp Dragons are flightless, flameless and extinct. \"GURPS Discworld\" suggests this may be a subspecies of the Swamp Dragons seen in later books.\n\nIn \"The Wee Free Men\", dromes are bizarre, inhuman creatures that inhabit the parasite universe known as Fairyland.\n\nDromes are large, blobby grey creatures, much like misshapen snowmen, with grey, doughy flesh, beady eyes and a small, toothless mouth.\n\nDromes have the unique ability to project and control dreams, trapping their victims within. If someone were to eat anything in the dream, they would be trapped forever until they starve to death. Once dead, the drome eats its victim (but not right away, as they have no teeth). Within a dream, dromes can shapeshift to blend in with their environment, but the one thing they cannot mimic is speech, which sounds like muffled gibberish. When several dromes gather together their powers increase and anyone nearby can be trapped within dreams within dreams within dreams until they are unsure of what is truly real or not. The only way to get out of a drome's dream is to slice off its head.\n\nDromes originated in a parallel reality; one of many visited by the floating parasite universe of the Elves. The Elf Queen abducted several of them to aid her in her selfish desires. The homeworld of the dromes is described as a twilight land of red rock against an unmoving sea under a great red sun, populated by crablike creatures, which they eat. This closely echoes the description of the far future Earth described by the protagonist of H. G. Wells' \"The Time Machine\".\n\nA native of Howondaland, the hermit elephant is a close relative of the more commonly known elephant. However, the hermit elephant has an uncommonly thin and vulnerable skin by comparison to these. In order to protect itself, the hermit elephant will walk into a village, enter a house or hut and lift it upon its back, carrying it away. As it grows, the elephant will periodically shed its house in favor of a new, larger one, much like hermit crabs. Hermit elephants frequently travel in herds, and these can easily be mistaken for villages if found while the animals are resting. Mentioned in \"Men at Arms\". Also described in \"A Hat Full of Sky\" where it states that an entire village of hermit elephants moving across the plains is one of the finest sights on the continent.\n\nA harmless crustacean creature that inhabits L-space, and feeds on dust. Mentioned in \"Guards! Guards!\".\n\nBlack, slippery eels which slither on land. They are from the dark and mysterious Überwald. They live in deep underground caves, where there is not sunshine, not the lack of light, but the substance of darkness itself. An Überwaldean land eel will emit \"dark light\" when surprised, much as a salamander will emit light. One vampire iconographer in Ankh-Morpork, Otto Chriek, once attempted to use dark light for iconography. The results were unreliable in the traditional iconographical sense. Dark light seems to affect the psyche of humans and members of other humanoid species. When used in iconography, dark light seems to illuminate, if such word can be used, a sort of truth, such as who really was in a room a few hours ago, or a father who's constantly watching over a son's shoulder.\n\nA species of migratory albatross. The bird's name refers not to its plumage but its migration habits, consisting of a series of lazy treks from Hub to Rim deemed pointless by most ornithologists of the Disc. One was sent to Lord Vetinari from the Agatean Empire in \"Interesting Times\" bearing a message for a \"Great Wizzard\". The name is a play on wandering albatross, while its odd migration pattern mimics that of the Arctic tern.\n\nThe Quantum Weather Butterfly (\"papilio tempestae\") is a butterfly which has evolved the curious trait of localized weather control. This is used as a defense mechanism and a sexual characteristic. The insect is yellow, with Mandelbrot patterned wings: these wings have an infinite wing perimeter, but only a finite area. A reference to the butterfly effect, it features mainly in \"Interesting Times\".\n\nA species of honeybee that, rather than being ruled by the traditional queen, runs its hives as democratic republics. Republican bees \"committee rather than swarm, and tend to stay in the hive a lot, voting for more honey.\"\n\nA small lizard mostly found in deserts and other sunny locations, the Salamander is unusual in that it has no orifices. It subsists on the magical energy contained in Octarine wavelengths of light, which it absorbs through its skin. Other wavelengths are also absorbed, but these are not \"digested\". The salamander must therefore occasionally \"excrete\" them, producing a bright but short-lived flash of light. Iconographers use this effect to enable flash iconography, by keeping the salamander(s) covered until needed and then scaring them when taking the picture.\n\nA shabby and disreputable species of seabird (actually a corvid, but they won't admit to have it in their family), which looks like it has been in an oil slick, and eats carrion. The ultimate scavenger, it has been said that not only will scalbies eat things so disgusting they would make a vulture sick, they will even eat \"vulture sick\". Appears in \"Small Gods\"\n\nA creature which exists in only two dimensions and eats mathematicians. The name is a reference to the shadowing lemma, a lemma from dynamical systems theory. Mentioned in Men at Arms.\n\nThis small rodent is a more careful variant of the lemming, as it only throws itself off small pebbles. It also abseils (rappels) down cliffs and builds rafts to cross lakes. Its fur coat is very valuable (particularly to the creature itself, which will do anything rather than let go of it). Many articles of expensive clothing, such as wizard's robes, tend to be lined with vermine. Its name is a play on vermin and ermine.\n\nA small toothless scavenger insect native to the deep caves and dwarf mines of Überwald. They are very patient, and able to digest practically anything with any nutrient value (one character even claims that the exhalations of visitors is food to them). Vurms are bioluminescent, giving off a weak greenish-white glow. Dwarfish \"drudak'ak\" seem to have a special connection to the creature, possibly using vurm blood to tattoo a luminescent personal identifier (the \"draht\") onto their forearms and apparently spreading the creature intentionally to new mines and territories. The creature is adapted from real-life cave glowworms (see Waitomo Glowworm Cave). Appears and is named in \"Thud!\", and may have appeared in \"The Fifth Elephant\".\n\nThe Clan is a tribe of intelligent rats (and one cat) who gained their sentience through consuming the rubbish outside the Unseen University, much like Gaspode. They make their living by hiring a rather dull-witted young man to serve as their \"piper\", who then pretends to rid a local town of the rats who then conveniently leave, moving on to the next town.\n\nDangerous Beans is a small albino rat. He is one of the main characters in \"The Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents\". Dangerous Beans is tiny, rather weak, and nearly blind. He is the most intelligent of the band of Changeling rats. He is quite idealistic and morally pure, which many other rats find puzzling. Due to his intellectual power, he is the only one who can withstand the psychic onslaught of Spider, the terrible rat king.\n\nDarktan is a Changeling rat who appears in \"The Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents\". He is a tough, battle-hardened rat. Hamnpork, the leader of the rats at the beginning of the book, is wary and afraid of him; it is clear that Darktan, who is in his prime and much more accustomed to being sapient, is a better leader for the rats. When Hamnpork is trapped in a pit with a terrier, Darktan rescues him by bungee jumping into the pit and grabbing him. Soon afterward, Darktan is caught in a rat trap and has a near death experience. When he regains consciousness, he finds that Hamnpork has died. The rats elect him as their new leader and he uses his so-called \"meeting with the Bone Rat\" to rally them into action.\n\nMaurice, the eponymous character in \"The Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents\", is a sapient talking cat. He has a rather tricky and money-grubbing personality, willing to swindle even his colleagues the Changelings (intelligent rats). However, over the course of the book, he develops a conscience and eventually sacrifices one of his nine lives to save his friend Dangerous Beans. He is last seen at the end of the book setting up a new scam, which seems to be related to the story of Dick Whittington.\n\nGaspode is a small terrier-like dog featured in seven novels. He possesses human-level intelligence and the ability to speak, as well as an extensive collection of diseases (including 'Licky end' which is only found in pregnant sheep); he claims that the only reason the diseases haven't killed him is that they're too busy fighting amongst themselves to focus on him. However, since everyone knows that dogs can't speak, people tend to interpret his speech as their own personal thoughts, a tendency which Gaspode regularly uses to wangle food from passers by. (In fact it has been mentioned in the books that a passerby kicked Gaspode into the gutter, and had gone no more than five steps before he thought \"I'm a bastard, aren't I\"). The exceptions to this are Carrot Ironfoundersson (who eventually figures out the truth himself), Angua (whom he tries to court because she's a werewolf), the staff of the Times (whom he needs to pass some information to), and the Canting Crew (who believe in much stranger things than talking dogs). Gaspode's ability to speak also has uses against other dogs, particularly against the misanthropic Dog Guild in \"Men at Arms\", shouting commands in human tongue (e.g. \"Sit!\", \"Bad Dog!\") that cause dogs to reflexively respond, in spite of better wishes. Gaspode frequently feels conflict between his desire to be a \"Good Dog\" and his belief that he has to look out for himself, because no one else will. Despite being given a home with happy children and suchlike, he ran away from this for the life he's always known.\n\nAs a newborn pup, Gaspode was thrown into the River Ankh in a brick-weighted sack. Since it was the Ankh, Gaspode was subsequently able to crawl ashore and find shelter in an alley, though not before forming a rather confused parental relationship with the brick.\n\nGaspode originally gained his intelligence and ability to speak in \"Moving Pictures\" as the result of a \"wild idea\" which sought to (re)create a Discworld version of Hollywood. Descended from dogs that fled the destruction of the first appearance of this idea, Gaspode was \"selected\" to fill the movie role of the Wonder Dog. Unfortunately, he looks nothing like the common conception of what a Wonder Dog is, and so lost the position to Laddie (an obvious Lassie and Lad amalgam), whereupon he became an agent for Laddie and the human actors Victor Tugelbend (renamed Victor Maraschino) and Theda \"Ginger\" Withel (renamed Delores de Syn). After the wild idea was contained/defeated, Gaspode lost the unwanted gifts that had been bestowed on him, and returned to being a homeless street dog.\n\nIn \"Men at Arms\", Gaspode has regained his intelligence and speech as a result of sleeping too close to the High Energy Magic Building in Unseen University and being exposed to magical seepage. In this and the rest of the books he appears in, Gaspode is portrayed as something like a Dickensian urchin, scrambling to survive the harsh life of the streets while maintaining a lovable (if filthy) nature. He has in the past been described as \"didn't look as though it could talk but looked as though it could swear\". Gaspode becomes the \"thinking brain\" dog (like a \"seeing eye\" dog) for Foul Ole Ron, and eventually joins the Canting Crew, a group of variably sane homeless people who have, as aforementioned, no difficulty in believing in talking dogs. Overall, within his disreputable appearance, Gaspode has acquired a survivor's intelligence that combines the street smarts of his upbringing with book smarts from reading badly-chewed-up books.\n\nGaspode also appears in the second Discworld game, \"Trouble with Dragons\", which is largely based on \"Guards! Guards!\" but features Rincewind. He makes a small appearance at the inn where he gives the player trouble by using Rincewind like a doll and let him anger a nearby Sailor.\n\nGaspode enjoys using his powers of speech to antagonize Angua and poke fun at her. During the events of \"Men at Arms\" he often points out that Angua can not hide her attraction to Carrot from him because he can \"smell\" her feelings. In one instance, Angua is forced to change into a human with no clothes on, finding herself in Carrot's bedroom, Gaspode tells Carrot to \"kiss her\", prompting Angua to throw the luckless dog out of the room.\n\nGaspode is named after \"the famous Gaspode\", a dog who, upon his master's death, stayed at the graveside howling until he died (possibly because the gravestone was on his tail). This is a reference to Greyfriars Bobby.\n\nGreebo is a foul-tempered one-eyed grey tomcat whose owner, Nanny Ogg, insists against all the evidence that he is a sweet, harmless kitten. In the course of the books, he has killed two vampires, eating at least one of them in the novel \"Witches Abroad\":\n\n\"The bat squirmed under his claw. It seemed to Greebo's small cat brain that it was trying to change its shape, and he wasn't having any of that from a mouse with wings on.\"\n\nAnd in \"Maskerade\", Magrat recalls when Greebo once killed an elf.\n\nIn \"Lords and Ladies\", Greebo's overall attitude is best described in an allusion to Schrödinger's cat:\n\nIn \"Witches Abroad\" he was transformed, for reasons that seemed to be a good idea at the time, into a human. He was confused by the differences between human and cat morphology and social relationships, but picked some aspects up quickly. In this incarnation, the character is reminiscent of \"Red Dwarf's\" Cat; he looks like a 'beautiful, brainless bully' who has raided a leather goods store for the discerning pirate, and appears ready to unbuckle any amount of swash, radiating an aura of raw sex that can be felt several rooms away, and of a megawatt magnitude. He is typically covered in scars, has retractable nails (or more accurately, claws) and maintains a slitted left eye. When he found a table with masquerade masks, he perused them, selected an orange cat mask and then stating \"Always did want to be a ginger.\"\n\nThe incident left him with an unstable phenotype, that is, a tendency to temporarily switch forms when completely cornered, which causes some excitement. In \"Maskerade\" he once more took longer-term human shape, attending the Ankh-Morpork Opera in the guise of the Le Comte de Gribeau.\n\nIn a passing reference in \"Witches Abroad\" Nanny Ogg said that Greebo was a demon (\"Just between you and me, he's a fiend from hell\"), possibly indicating that Greebo is indeed demonic, partially due to Nanny's insistence otherwise that Greebo is a gentle kitten. This might just refer to Greebo's temperament. It is mentioned in \"Wyrd Sisters\" that, in addition to his other qualities, he is pursuing a study in inbreeding with all of the other cats in Lancre that are related to him (which by dint of some effort is all of them, as he is currently every male ancestor for at least 30 generations), which may be involved in the \"raw sex\" aura he possesses mentioned above. The same book mentions that he has also seriously surprised a she-bear and chased a female wolf up a tree.\n\nTo date, Greebo is known to fear only three things:\n\nIn Terry Pratchett's Johnny Maxwell series, Mrs Tachyon owns a cat named Guilty who has many qualities similar to Greebo.\n\nThe Cretaceous conifer species \"Sciadopityoides greeboana\" is named after Greebo.\n\n\"See Death (Discworld)#Quoth\"\n\nMr. Tiddles is a very old cat with a very set routine of walking through the Ankh-Morpork Post Office. He follows it exactly; if there is an obstruction he will butt against it until the path is clear. When the Post Office burns down in \"Going Postal\" Moist goes back into the burning Post Office to save Mr. Tiddles. Ultimately Mr. Tiddles and Moist are saved by the diligent, unrelenting firefighting efforts of the city's golems, many of them Post Office employees themselves. In \"Making Money\" Moist wonders why he prefers to get up every day at 11:30 AM and move a chair so that Mr. Tiddles can pass by it. Implied, but not stated, is that he could just move the chair once and leave it in the new, non-obstructing position.\n\nA small dog of indeterminate breed belonging to the Patrician of Ankh-Morpork, Lord Vetinari. By the time of \"The Truth\" he is sixteen years old, and has a rather interesting smell (\"It's his teeth...\")\nHe partially foils the attempt to discredit the Patrician by attacking and biting one of the perpetrators of the deed, and his subsequent evidence (interpreted by Gaspode) helps to uncover the plot.\n\nBy the time the events of \"Going Postal\" occur Wuffles has died, and is buried in the grounds of the Patrician's Palace. Lord Vetinari leaves dog biscuits on his grave. Seeing as this is one of the few instances where Vetinari shows any emotion, this implies a very strong bond between them.\n\nApples in the Discworld include the Lancre Blackheart, the Golden Disagreeable, and the Green Billet (which goes immediately from ripe to rotten upon being picked). All these varieties are used to make Scumble.\n\nIn \"The Sea and Little Fishes\" a variety called Nanny Ogg is invented, a play on Granny Smith. After a chain of events, a breed of onion called Granny Weatherwax also appears.\n\nAn alcoholic beverage made of mostly apples and drunk in very small cups some months apart.\n\nIt was first introduced in \"Mort\" which tells us:\"A lot of stories are told about scumble, and how it is made out on the damp marshes, according to ancient recipes passed down rather unsteadily from father to son. It's not true about the rats, or the snakes' heads, or the lead shot. The one about the dead sheep is a complete fabrication. We can lay to rest all the variants of the one about the trouser button. But the one about not letting it come into contact with metal is absolutely true...\"\n\nIn \"Mort\" it was drunk on the Sto Plains, but in later books it is associated with Lancre, where it is distilled by Nanny Ogg (whose particular variant is known as \"Suicider\"). The consumption of scumble in Lancre has earned the populace of the area a reputation for having \"Four brain cells, huddling together for warmth\". The word scumble is a pun on the West Country cider known as scrumpy, but scumble is clearly stronger than cider and distilled, therefore it is the Discworld version of applejack.\n\nWhen scumble is mixed with dwarfish beer, it creates a highly intoxicating cocktail known as \"Fluff\".\n\nScumble is unable to be watered down and usually served in small thimble sized wooden cups.\n\nThe only known example of borrowed evolution, counting pines alter their genetic code to adapt to outside forces. This unique ability has run into a snag when dealing with humans however. When humans first started cutting them down, the counting pines assumed that they wished to count their rings, and so adapted by displaying their age in numbers on their trunks. Unfortunately, this adaptation led to their being nearly exterminated by the demand for exotic house number-plates.\n\nIn addition to the more common annual plants, biennial plants and perennial plants, Discworld harbors a small number of re-annual plants. These are plants which, due to a rare 4-dimensional twist in their genetic structure, flower and grow before their seed germinates. This is usually only possible in areas with considerable amounts of background magic. Farmers who grow re-annual plants are usually very careful about dates of sowing, lest they cause devastating temporal paradoxes (such as dying of starvation because the food one lived off months ago was never grown). \"The Discworld Almanak\" also mentions how a garden implement carelessly strewn among re-annuals months later can cause serious damage today.\n\nWhen re-annual plant products undergo fermentation, the product is time-reversed alcohol (such as counterwise wine), a rare substance much sought by fortune-tellers and the like, as ingesting it allows some ability to foretell the future, which from the point of view of the plant is the past. Time-reversed alcohol produces inebriation in the normal way, but the hangover is thrust backwards in time to several hours before the actual ingestion of the alcohol. This is known as a hangunder, and is usually very strong since one feels so dreadful one imbibes large amounts of alcohol to get over it.\n\nThe only revealed re-annual plants are the vul nut vine, which is remarkable in that it can begin to flower as much as eight years before being sown; and re-annual grapes (the source of counterwise wine), which are harvested a year in advance of being sown.\n\nA type of semi-intelligent wood that grows in areas of high residual magic. Impervious to magic, it is used in the manufacture of wizards' staffs. Mostly extinct outside the Agatean Empire where it is still quite common, and used to make a number of aggressively ill-tempered artifacts, such as The Luggage in Colour of Magic. An artifact made of sapient pearwood will follow its owner \"anywhere\". One of its earliest uses was in the manufacture of grave goods for which the well-worn phrase \"You can't take it with you\" is manifestly incorrect.\n\nA fruit that grows in Howondaland. It is highly prized by connoisseurs as they rarely prize something common; the colour (earwax) and smell (like a sick anteater) make most people feel ill. It is also covered in spikes.\n\nIts name may be based on the poisonous wahoo fruit, although the description is similar to the durian.\n\nAnkh-Morpork is known as the Big Wahoonie, although the fruit does not smell \"that\" bad.\n\nA parody of the real world sauce of the same name. The Discworld version was invented by an uncle of Mustrum Ridcully, and its ingredients include grated wahoonie, asafoetida, scumble, sulphur and saltpetre. It is a highly unstable substance and believed to be responsible (when combined with a charcoal biscuit and an after-dinner pipe) for the elder Ridcully's explosive death. (See Black powder for why the combination might be problematic.) A presumably different uncle of Ridcully's used to swear by (or rather, swear at) Wow-Wow Sauce as a hangover cure; according to Ridcully, \"He seemed very peaceful when they came to lay him out\". Ridcully also advised that Wow-Wow Sauce must never be consumed when sweat is condensing on the bottle (a reference to the danger posed by dynamite that has begun to sweat its nitroglycerin).\n"}
{"id": "32535596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32535596", "title": "Green Energy (Definition and Promotion) Act 2009", "text": "Green Energy (Definition and Promotion) Act 2009\n\nThe Green Energy (Definition and Promotion) Act 2009 (c 19) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The Act is intended to reduce carbon emissions in order to reduce climate change, to increase the diversity and security of energy supplies, to reduce fuel poverty, and to contribute to meeting the EU 2020 renewable energy targets.\n\nSections 1(2) and (3) define the expression \"green energy\" for the purposes of this Act.\n\nThese sections make provision for the promotion of microgeneration.\n\nThis section defines the words and expressions \"dwellinghouse\", \"energy efficiency measure\", \"equipment\", \"fuel poverty\", \"the GPDO\" and \"renewable or low-carbon source\" for the purposes of the Act.\n\nSection 6(1) authorises the citation of the Act by a short title. \n\nSection 6(2) provides that the Act came into force at the end of the period of two months that began on the day that it was passed. The word \"months\" means calendar months. The day (that is to say, 12 November 2009) on which the Act was passed (that is to say, received royal assent) is included in the period of two months. This means that the Act came into force on 12 January 2010.\n\nSection 6(3) provides for its extent.\n\n"}
{"id": "1749549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1749549", "title": "Heath forest", "text": "Heath forest\n\nHeath forest is a type of tropical moist forest found in areas with acidic, sandy soils that are extremely nutrient-poor. Notable examples are the Rio Negro campinarana of the Amazon Basin in South America, and the Sundaland heath forests (also known as \"Kerangas\" forests) of Borneo and neighboring islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "17321713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17321713", "title": "Index of climate change articles", "text": "Index of climate change articles\n\nThis is a list of climate change topics.\n\n100% renewable energy -\n100,000-year problem - \n1500-Year climate cycle - \n4 Degrees and Beyond International Climate Conference\n\nAbrupt climate change -\n\"The Age of Stupid\" -\nAlbedo -\n\"An Inconvenient Truth\" -\n\"An Inconvenient Book\" -\nAntarctica cooling controversy -\nAntarctic Bottom Water -\nAntarctic Cold Reversal -\nAntarctic oscillation -\nArctic amplification -\nArctic Climate Impact Assessment -\nArctic geoengineering -\nArctic shrinkage -\nArctic oscillation -\nAtlantic oscillation -\nArctic Climate Impact Assessment -\nArctic methane release -\nArctic sea ice decline -\nArctic shrinkage -\nArgo (oceanography) -\nARkStorm -\nAthabasca oil sands -\nAtlantic Multidecadal Oscillation -\nAtmospheric circulation -\nAtmospheric sciences -\nAtmospheric window -\nAttribution of recent climate change -\nAviation and climate change -\nAviation and the environment - \nAvoiding dangerous climate change\n\nBali Communiqué -\nBali roadmap -\nBiochar -\nBio-energy with carbon capture and storage -\nBio-geoengineering -\nBlack carbon -\nBlytt-Sernander -\nBroad Spectrum Revolution -\nBusiness action on climate change\n\nCallendar effect -\nCap and Share -\nCarbon bubble -\nCarbon capture and storage -\nCarbon cycle -\nCarbon negative -\nCarbon neutral -\nCarbon price -\nCarbon project -\nCarbon sequestration -\nCarbon offset -\nCarbon sink -\nCarbon tax -\nCatastrophic climate change -\nCenter for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change -\nClathrate gun hypothesis -\nClean coal technology -\nClean Energy Trends -\nClimate -\nClimate change -\nClimate change acronyms -\nClimate Change Act 2008 -\nClimate change and agriculture -\nClimate change denial -\nClimate change feedback -\nClimate change in Japan -\nClimate change in popular culture -\nClimate change mitigation -\nClimate change mitigation -\nClimate change mitigation scenarios -\nClimate commitment -\nClimate crunch -\nClimate cycle -\nClimate engineering -\nClimate ethics -\nClimate governance-\nClimate Investment Funds -\nClimate model -\nClimate refugee -\nClimate risk management -\nClimate scientists (list) -\nClimate sensitivity -\nClimate stabilization wedge -\nClimate surprise -\nClimate variability -\nClimate Vulnerable Forum-\nClimatic Research Unit email controversy -\nCloud feedback -\nCloud reflectivity enhancement -\nCoal phase out -\nContraction and Convergence -\nContrail -\nCool roof -\nCool tropics paradox -\nCoral bleaching\n\n\"The Day After Tomorrow\" -\nDendroclimatology -\nDivergence problem\nDrought\nDrought in the United States\n\nEarly anthropocene -\nEarth Hour -\nEarth's atmosphere -\nEarth's energy budget -\nEarthLab -\nEarthshine -\nEast Antarctic Ice Sheet -\nEco-efficiency -\nEcological Forecasting -\nEcotax -\nEffect of climate change on plant biodiversity -\nEffects of climate change on marine mammals -\nEffects of global warming on oceans -\nEffects of global warming - \nEffects of global warming on Australia - \nEffects of global warming on India -\nEfficient energy use -\nEl Niño (ENSO) -\nEmission inventory -\nEmission Reduction Unit -\nEmission standards -\nEmissions trading -\nEnergie-Cités -\nEnergy Autonomy -\nEnergy conservation -\nEnergy forestry -\nEnergy poverty -\nEnteric fermentation -\nEnvironmental crime -\nEnvironmental impact of aviation -\nEnvironmental skepticism -\nEuropean Climate Forum -\nEvidence of global warming - \nExternality\n\nFossil fuel -\nFossil fuel divestment -\nFossil fuel phase out -\nFossil fuel power plant -\nFreon -\nFood security\n\nG8+5 -\nGeoengineering -\nGFDL CM2.X -\nGlacial period -\nGlobal Change Master Directory -\nGlobal climate model -\nGlobal cooling -\nGlobal climate model (General Circulation Model) -\nGlobal dimming -\nGlobal warming -\nGlobal warming controversy -\nGlobal warming hiatus -\nGlobal warming period -\nGlobal warming potential -\nGreenhouse and icehouse Earth -\nGreenhouse debt -\nGreenhouse effect -\nGreenhouse gas -\nGreenhouse gas accounting -\nGreenhouse gas inventory -\nGulf Stream\n\nHeiligendamm Process -\n\"Hell and High Water (book)\" -\nHistory of climate change science -\nHockey stick graph -\nHockey stick controversy -\nHolocene -\nHolocene Climatic Optimum -\nHomogenization -\nHow Global Warming Works -\nHuman impact of climate change -\nHydraulic fracturing -\nHydrological geoengineering -\nHypermobile travellers\n\nIce age -\nIce core -\nIce sheet dynamics -\nIndividual and political action on climate change -\nInsolation -\nInstrumental temperature record -\nInterdecadal Pacific Oscillation -\nIntergovernmental Panel on Climate Change -\nInternational Conference on Climate Change -\nIPCC list of greenhouse gases\n\nKeeling Curve -\nKyoto Protocol\n\nLaudato si\nList of climate scientists - \nList of geoengineering topics -\nList of ministers of climate change -\nList of proposed geoengineering projects -\nList of scientists opposing the mainstream scientific assessment of global warming -\nLittle Ice Age -\nLong-term effects of global warming - \nLow-carbon emission\n\nMagnetosphere -\nMaunder Minimum -\nMauna Loa -\nMedia coverage of climate change-\nMedieval Warm Period -\nMeridional overturning circulation -\nMeteorology -\nMethane -\nMethane clathrate -\nMilankovitch cycles\n\nNitrous oxide (NO) -\nNorth Atlantic Deep Water -\nNorth Atlantic oscillation -\nNorthwest Passage\n\nOcean acidification - \nOcean anoxia - \nOlder Dryas -\nOldest Dryas -\nOverpopulation -\nOzone depletion\n\nPacific decadal oscillation -\nPaleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum -\nPaleoclimate Modelling Intercomparison Project -\nPaleothermometer -\nParameterization -\nPlanetary engineering -\nPeak oil -\nPhenology -\nPhysical impacts of climate change -\nPolar amplification -\nProxy\n\nQuaternary glaciation - Quasi-biennial oscillation\n\nRadiative forcing -\nRegional effects of global warming - \nRenewable energy -\nRenewable energy commercialization -\nRetreat of glaciers since 1850 -\nRunaway climate change\n\nSahara pump theory -\nSatellite temperature measurements -\nScientific opinion on climate change -\nScientific consensus -\nScientific skepticism -\nSea level rise -\nSlash and burn -\nSnowball Earth -\nSolar Radiation Management -\nSolar shade -\nSolar variation -\nSpace sunshade -\nStratospheric Particle Injection for Climate Engineering -\nStratospheric sulfur aerosols -\nStratospheric sulfur aerosols (geoengineering) -\nSunspot\nSurveys of scientists' views on climate change\n\nTable of Historic and Prehistoric Climate Indicators -\nTemperature record of the past 1000 years -\nTemperature record since 1880 -\nThermohaline circulation -\nTimeline of glaciation -\nTEX-86 -\nThermocline -\n\"The Deniers\" -\n\"The Great Global Warming Swindle\" -\n\"The Republican War on Science\" -\nTimeline of environmental history -\nTipping point (climatology)\n\nUrban heat island -\nUN climate change conference 2009 -\nThe Uninhabitable Earth\n\nWaste heat -\nWater World -\nWest Antarctic Ice Sheet -\nWorld climate research programme -\nWorld Climate Report\n\nYamal Peninsula\n\n"}
{"id": "1694095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694095", "title": "Irish Peatland Conservation Council", "text": "Irish Peatland Conservation Council\n\nThe Irish Peatland Conservation Council (IPCC; ) is a national charitable organisation established in 1982 to conserve and protect a representative sample of Irish bogs, and to campaign on bog-related issues.\n\nHaving been for many years in Dublin city centre, the Council's headquarters are currently located at the Bog of Allen Nature Centre, Lullymore, Rathangan, Co. Kildare. The Bog of Allen Nature Centre was acquired by IPCC in 2003 and since then work has been ongoing to develop an internationally recognised centre for peatland conservation, education and research.\n\nThe \"Friend of the Bog\" scheme is one means by which members of the public can become involved in and help the Save the Bogs Campaign. Other fundraising methods include special appeals, sale of symbolic share certificates in Irish bogs, a \"Save the Bogs\" card and gift catalogue, raffles, open days and sales of work, visits to the Bog of Allen Nature Centre.\n\nIPCC's conservation aims and objectives are set out in a series of Action Plans, the most recent being \"Bogs and Fens of Ireland Conservation Plan 2005\". An account of the first fifteen years of the Save the Bogs Campaign is contained in \"Save the Bogs Story\", with all IPCC publications orderable through the charity's website . IPCC also produces a twice-yearly campaign newsletter Peatland News which goes out to \"Friends of the Bog\".\n\nThe IPCC is a registered charity, It is not state-funded and so relies on public support to ensure its independence and influence. The IPCC is a member of the Irish Environmental Network, a network of Ireland's environmental NGOs.\n\n2003 Derrybrien landslide\n\n"}
{"id": "20027242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20027242", "title": "Kanjli Wetland", "text": "Kanjli Wetland\n\nKanjli Wetland, a man made Wetland, which subsumes the Kanjli Lake, located in the Kapurthala district of Punjab state in India, was created in 1870 by constructing the headworks across the perennial Bien River, a tributary of the Beas River to provide irrigation facilities to the hinterland. The rich biodiversity of the wetland comprising aquatic, mesophytic and terrestrial flora and fauna including some important species of plants and animals was recognized internationally by the Ramsar Convention in 2002 by designating the Kanjli Lake in the List of Wetlands of International Importance. In this context, it is reported that the Punjab State which has 14 wetlands covering an area of 225.76 km (2% of the geographical area of the State) has the unique position of three of its wetlands viz., the Kanjli Wetland covering an area of 490 ha of which the Kanjli Lake water spread is 184 ha), the Harike Wetland (4100 ha) and the Ropar Wetland (1365 ha) chosen by the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoE&F), Government of India for their conservation and management are now also included in the Ramsar list covering a total area of 5650 ha; Kanjli is upstream of Harike wetland located in the Beas river basin while the Ropar wetland is in the Roopnagar district.\n\nThe Kanjli Wetland is one of the manmade wetlands in India identified by the Government of India, as per the Expert Group’s (set up in 1983 by the Ministry of Environment and Forests) report published in 1990. Since the main article on Wetland does not cover the aspects of Indian wetlands, the work done in this regard in India is explained. The Expert Group has based its directory on the basis of the definition enunciated by the Ramsar International Convention on Wetlands:\n\n\" areas of marsh, fen, peatland, or water whether natural or artificial, permanent or temporary, with water that is static or flowing, fresh, brackish or salt, including areas of marine water the depth of which at low tide does not exceed six metres\".\n\nFurther, considering the definition of wetlands given by Cowden in 1979 for classification of wetlands in the US, three key attributes of hydrology (the degree of flooding or soil saturation), wetland vegetation (hydrophytes) and hydric soils have also been considered for identification. In this list, mangroves are not included since it falls under a separate category.\n\nThe Expert Group's directory has made a distinction between Natural and Man-Made wetlands (including wetlands of less than 100 ha area). In India, in its 24 states and two union territories (as per the 1990 report), there are 2167 nos of natural wetlands with a total area of 1.45 million ha and Man-Made wetlands of 65,254 nos with total area of 2.59 million ha. The inland water bodies listed in the report covers lakes, tanks, reservoirs etc.\n\nThe erstwhile Maharaja of Kapurthala (Raja Randhir Singh - 1862 to 1870), built the headworks on the river Kali Bein which resulted in the creation of the Kanjli Wetland which subsumes the sparkling lake by the same name. The Maharaja also built a retreat, in the French architectural style, in the forest set in lovely natural scenery, on the banks of the Lake, which was named \"The Villa\" or the \"Villa Buona Vista\". His royal successors live in this retreat even now.\nThe lake has been developed as a tourist destination with facilities for fishing and boating. A traditional Mela or exhibition is held here during Depavali festival.\n\nThe Kanjli ecological Wetland region around the village Kanjli is from the Kapurthala town, also the district headquarters, and is thus well connected by road network to all parts of the state and rest of the country.\n\nThe Kali Bein River, originating near village Dhanoa, upstream of Budho Bark Regulator in Hoshiarpur District, formerly a main tributary of the Beas River feeds the Wetland and the Lake. The Bien has now become an independent river due to siltation and westward swing of the Beas River. Agricultural development dominates the catchment of the wetland. The Bien river has contributed to the formation of fertile plains by bringing down large sediment loads during floods. Depth of water in the Lake has a seasonal variation of 3.05 m (10 feet) to 7.62 m (25 feet) depending on the season and inflow discharge. Catchment area is mainly under agriculture. The wetland is in the semi-arid zone and receives an average annual rainfall of about 620 mm. The temperature varies from a maximum of 45 C in summer to an average of 6C during winter with occasionally freezing temperatures.\n\nThe Kali Bein and its wetland provide water supply for agriculture in the Kapurthala district, recharges the ground water, drains excessive rainwater from sensitive crops like wheat, potato, etc. and acts as a sponge by absorbing the flood waters.\n\nThe water and sludge quality of the Wetland has been studied by the Punjab Pollution Control Board Their report indicates that quality generally conforms to Class 'B' with some degree of quality degradation to Class 'D' sometimes during December.\n\nFrom a satellite imagery study of the wetland it has been inferred that Kanjli Lake could be categorised under low turbidity class (dark blue hue) during pre-monsoon period and moderate turbidity class (medium blue) during post monsoon season which is indicative of regimentation occurring in the lake during post monsoon season.\n\nThe flora and fauna recorded in the Wetland and the Kanjli Lake within it (Some of them are pictured in the gallery) are the following.\n\n\n11 species of aquaflora, 34 species of zooplankton and 15 species of macro invertebrates have been reported.\n\nAccording to the District Gazetteer and the study done by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), 17 fish species (in Bein river and the lake) have been reported which includes the common fish species of \"Catla catla\", \"Channa marulius\" (great snakehead), \"Cythus striatus\", \"Cirrhinus mrigala\", \"Labeo calbasu\" and \"Labeo rohita\".\n\nThe tortoise is the common reptile reported in the area.\n\nThere are twenty-eight resident bird species and nine migratory species. The migratory birds are various species of goose, white-eyed pochard, wigeon, tufted pochard, common teal, large whistling teal, pintail, mallard and shoveller.\n\nThe mammals in the wetland are the Indian civet, mongoose, Indian porcupine, squirrel and common Indian hare.\n\nIn the Wetland, the ecological status of the Kanjli lake, in particular, has been threatened on account of the following issues.\n\nThe conservation and management measures undertaken with assistance provided by the Ministry of Environment & Forests, Govt. of India (MoEF, GOI) by the Environment Division of the Punjab State Council for Science & Technology under the directive of the State Level Steering Committee are the following.\n\nSikh tradition states that at the age of thirty, Nanak went missing and was presumed to have drowned after going for one of his morning baths to a local stream called the Kali Bein. Three days later he reappeared and would give the same answer to any question posed to him: \"There is no Hindu, there is no Muslim\" (in Punjabi, \"nā kōi hindū nā kōi musalmān\"). It was from this moment that Nanak would begin to spread the teachings of what was then the beginning of Sikhism.\n"}
{"id": "1436198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1436198", "title": "Land degradation", "text": "Land degradation\n\nLand degradation is a process in which the value of the biophysical environment is affected by a combination of human-induced processes acting upon the land. \nIt is viewed as any change or disturbance to the land perceived to be deleterious or undesirable. Natural hazards are excluded as a cause; however human activities can indirectly affect phenomena such as floods and bush fires.\n\nThis is considered to be an important topic of the 21st century due to the implications land degradation has upon agronomic productivity, the environment, and its effects on food security. It is estimated that up to 40% of the world's agricultural land is seriously degraded.\n\nThere are four main ways of looking at land degradation and its impact on the environment around it:\n\n\nA problem with defining land degradation is that what one group of people might view as degradation, others might view as a benefit or opportunity. For example, planting crops at a location with heavy rainfall and steep slopes would create scientific and environmental concern regarding the risk of soil erosion by water, yet farmers could view the location as a favourable one for high crop yields.\n\nIn addition to the usual types of land degradation that have been known for centuries (water, wind and mechanical erosion, physical, chemical and biological degradation), four other types have emerged in the last 50 years:\nOverall, more than 36 types of land degradation can be assessed. All are induced or aggravated by human activities, e.g. sheet erosion, silting, aridification, salinization, urbanization, etc.\n\nLand degradation caused by mining as it cause landslides\nLand degradation is a global problem largely related to agricultural use. Causes include:\n\n\nOvercutting of vegetation occurs when people cut forests, woodlands and shrublands—to obtain timber, fuelwood and other products—at a pace exceeding the rate of natural regrowth. This is frequent in semi-arid environments, where fuelwood shortages are often severe. \nOvergrazing is the grazing of natural pastures at stocking intensities above the livestock carrying capacity; the resulting decrease in the vegetation cover is a leading cause of wind and water erosion. It is a significant factor in Afghanistan. The growing population pressure, during 1980-1990, has led to decreases in the already small areas of agricultural land per person in six out of eight countries (14% for India and 21% for Pakistan).\n\nPopulation pressure also operates through other mechanisms. Improper agricultural practices, for instance, occur only under constraints such as the saturation of good lands under population pressure which leads settlers to cultivate too shallow or too steep soils, plough fallow land before it has recovered its fertility, or attempt to obtain multiple crops by irrigating unsuitable soils.\n\nHigh population density is not always related to land degradation. Rather, it is the practices of the human population that can cause a landscape to become degraded. Populations can be a benefit to the land and make it more productive than it is in its natural state. Land degradation is an important factor of internal displacement in many African and Asian countries.\n\nSevere land degradation affects a significant portion of the Earth's arable lands, decreasing the wealth and economic development of nations. As the land resource base becomes less productive, food security is compromised and competition for dwindling resources increases, the seeds of famine and potential conflict are sown.\n\nSensitivity and resilience are measures of the vulnerability of a landscape to degradation. These two factors combine to explain the degree of vulnerability. Sensitivity is the degree to which a land system undergoes change due to natural forces, human intervention or a combination of both. Resilience is the ability of a landscape to absorb change, without significantly altering the relationship between the relative importance and numbers of individuals and species that compose the community. It also refers to the ability of the region to return to its original state after being changed in some way. The resilience of a landscape can be increased or decreased through human interaction based upon different methods of land-use management. Land that is degraded becomes less resilient than undegraded land, which can lead to even further degradation through shocks to the landscape.\n\nSignificant land degradation from seawater inundation, particularly in river deltas and on low-lying islands, is a potential hazard that was identified in a 2007 IPCC report. As a result of sea-level rise from climate change, salinity levels can reach levels where agriculture becomes impossible in very low-lying areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14745029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14745029", "title": "Lhamo La-tso", "text": "Lhamo La-tso\n\nLhamo Latso or Lha-mo La-tso () is a small oval oracle lake where senior Tibetan monks of the Gelug sect go for visions to assist in the discovery of reincarnations of the Dalai Lamas. Other pilgrims also come to seek visions. It is considered to be the most sacred lake in Tibet. \nIt is also known as \"The Spiritual-Lake of the Goddess\", the goddess being Palden Lhamo, the principal Protectress of Tibet. Other names include: Tso Lhamo (mTsho Lha mo), Chokhorgyelgi Namtso (Chos 'khor rgyal gyi gnam mtsho) and Makzorma (dmag zor ma) and, on old maps, as Cholamo.\n\nIt is said that Palden Lhamo, as the female guardian spirit of the Lhamo Latso promised the 1st Dalai Lama in one of his visions \"that she would protect the reincarnation lineage of the Dalai Lamas.\" Ever since the time of the 2nd Dalai Lama, who formalised the system, the regents and other monks have gone to the lake to seek guidance on choosing the next reincarnation through visions while meditating there.\n\nThe particular form of Palden Lhamo at Lhamo Latso is Jemo Maksoma (, \"The Victorious Queen who Turns Back Enemies\". The lake is sometimes referred to as \"Palden Lhamo \"Kalideva\"\", which indicates that she is the (Buddhist) emanation of Kali, shakti of Shiva. Jemo Maksoma, also called Machik Pellha Shiwé Nyamchen (), this is an unusually peaceful form of Palden Lhamo.\n\nThe mountain to the south of Chokorgyel Monastery, \"Shridevi\", is the \"blue\" residence of Palden Lhamo on which a sky burial site is located. The monastery was originally built in a triangular form to reflect the symbolism of its position at the confluence of three rivers and surrounded by three mountains and also represents the conjunction of the three elements of water, earth and fire, as well as the female principle of Palden Lhamo in the form of an inverted triangle.\nIt was here that in 1935, the Regent, Reting Rinpoche, received a clear vision of three Tibetan letters and of a monastery with a jade-green and gold roof, and a house with turquoise roof tiles, which led to the discovery of Tenzin Gyatso, the present 14th Dalai Lama.\n\nLhamo Latso is in Gyaca County, Lhokha Province southeast of Lhasa, a four-hour hike from the Gelugpa Chokorgyel Monastery at an altitude of about and covers an area of only about .\n\nChokorgyel Monastery itself is about northeast of Tsetang and about southeast of Lhasa, at an altitude of .\n\nThe old path from Chokorgyel Monastery used to be paved to make access easier for the senior monks wishing to visit the lake. Halfway along is a diamond-shaped pond fed by glaciers known as Yoni Lake. On a ridge near the top of the pass overlooking the lake a ritual \"shökde\" or throne was built for the Dalai Lama, where he once sat to divine the future while gazing into the lake about in front and lower down. Nowadays it is buried under a mound of silk scarves (\"hadak\").\n\nMany pilgrims come each year to Lhamo Latso believing that, with proper devoutness, and after fasting for three days and refraining from talk, they will be rewarded with a revelation of their future in the skull-shaped mirror of the lake. Previously there was a temple to Jemo Maksoma at the eastern end of the lake; the site is now marked only by prayer flags and offerings left by pilgrims.\n\nThere is a kora (circumambulatory pilgrimage) around Lhamo La-tso.\n"}
{"id": "22405859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22405859", "title": "List of Brachyscome species", "text": "List of Brachyscome species\n\nThis is a list of Brachyscome species.\n\n"}
{"id": "5904226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5904226", "title": "List of Grevillea cultivars", "text": "List of Grevillea cultivars\n\nThis is a list of cultivars of the plant genus \"Grevillea\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8750959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8750959", "title": "List of Hygrophorus species", "text": "List of Hygrophorus species\n\nA list of fungus species of the genus \"Hygrophorus\" appears below. Many species formerly included in this genus are now placed in the genus \"Hygrocybe\". There are approximately 100 species in the genus.\n"}
{"id": "3069537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3069537", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on strawberry plants", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on strawberry plants\n\nStrawberries (\"Fragaria\" species) are used as food plants by the larvae of a number of Lepidoptera species including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14663020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14663020", "title": "List of Middle-earth animals", "text": "List of Middle-earth animals\n\nThis is a list of animals that appeared in Arda, the world of J. R. R. Tolkien's Middle-earth legendarium. In addition, this list encompasses several living creatures that were referred to at some point by Tolkien as being beast-shaped Maiar (angelic beings) rather than proper animals; such cases are annotated.\n\nIn Quenya, an Elven tongue devised by Tolkien, the general term for animals, as distinct from plants (\"olvar\"), is kelvar.\n\n\"Crebain\" (singular: \"craban\") were a large species of crow that inhabited the land of Dunland during the Third Age. They were often used as servants and spies by various evil powers, notably Saruman. During the War of the Ring, a flock of \"crebain\" searched for the Ring-bearer. \"Crebain\" \"crows\" would be the regular plural form of Sindarin \"*craban\" \"crow,\" a word which (while unattested) seems to have been adopted by Tolkien from Indo-European languages, particularly a pre-Germanic form \"*krabn-\", whence the proto-Germanic \"*hrabnaz\", from which descended both Old High German \"hraban\" and English \"raven\".\n\nA species of songbirds native to Tol Eressëa. The birds mated for life, and were described as \"grey, with golden beaks and feet\". A pair of Elven-birds was gifted to Erendis on her wedding to Aldarion, the crown-prince of Númenor. She later dismissed the birds when their marriage broke down.\n\nA race of eagles of outstanding size, believed to have been sent to Middle-earth and Númenor by Manwë. Tolkien proposed variously that they had been either Maiar or just highly intelligent animals.\n\nOne of the many species of birds found in Númenor that were not known in Middle-earth. The \"kirinki\" are said to have been smaller than wrens, with scarlet feathers and \"piping voices on the edge of human hearing\".\n\nThe ravens of Erebor (the Lonely Mountain) were a type of raven that could converse with humans. They were also extremely long-lived: Roäc was aged 153 when he was met in \"The Hobbit\". Their main rookery was on Ravenhill on a spur of the Mountain. They often assisted the Dwarves of Erebor by providing messengers.\n\nWhite oxen that lived near the inland Sea of Rhûn, called thus by the men of Gondor, who associated them with the Vala Oromë or Araw, \"the huntsman of the Valar\".\n\nVorondil (Steward to King Eärnil II of Gondor, -2029) hunted these beasts, and fashioned a horn for blowing from one of them. It became an heirloom of the Stewards of Gondor. This horn eventually came to Boromir and was cloven when he fell during the War of the Ring.\n\nThe Elves of Mirkwood allude to the Kine of Araw: they sing of a land \"[w]here the kine and the oxen feed\" while sending wine-barrels off down the Forest River for re-filling in the river's ultimate destination in Dorwinion, a wine-growing region on the shores of the Sea of Rhûn.\n\nThe Kine of Araw have been compared to aurochs.\n\nThe \"mearas\" (singular \"mearh\") were a breed of wild horses in the north of Middle-earth. Their lifespan is similar to that of Men and their intelligence and strength are extraordinary. They surpass normal horses in the same manner that Elves surpass Men.\n\nThey descend from Felaróf, who was tamed by Eorl the Young (later the first King of Rohan), and perhaps ultimately from Nahar, horse of the Vala Oromë. Ever since, they have been the mounts of the King and Princes of Rohan alone. During the War of the Ring, however, Gandalf the White's friendship with Shadowfax, lord of the Mearas, led to Shadowfax allowing Gandalf to ride him into the very end of the Third Age. King Théoden's mount, Snowmane, was also one of the Mearas.\n\n\"Mûmakil\" (singular: \"mûmak\") were animals from Harad resembling elephants. The terms \"mûmak\" and \"mûmakil\" were used by the Men of Gondor. Hobbit folklore called these creatures Oliphaunts.\n\nThe creatures are described in \"The Two Towers\". Samwise Gamgee expresses a desire to see one and tells of Hobbit-lore of their being \"big as a house\" (see below). Later, Sam then sees one as big as a \"moving hill\", though the narration implies Sam's \"fear and wonder\" may have exaggerated its size. Employed as a beast of burden by the Haradrim, the \"mûmakil\" were also used in battle during the wars of the Third Age. In the War of the Ring, they were used by troops in Ithilien and in the Battle of the Pelennor Fields, much like war elephants of the real world. In battle, they carried tower-like structures (corresponding to howdahs), bearing Haradrim archers. The only known way to kill one was to shoot it in the eye. As with real elephants, horses (other than the Haradrim's own) refused to go near them, making them effective against enemy cavalry. There are also Mûmakil in Rhûn.\n\n\"Oliphaunt\" is also the title of a short comic poem about the beast quoted by the hobbit Samwise Gamgee, based on traditional bestiary lore from the Shire. The poem appears in \"The Two Towers\" and \"The Adventures of Tom Bombadil\".\n\nThe word \"oliphaunt\" is a variant spelling of the archaic word \"oliphant\", used in literature to denote \"elephant\", \"ivory\", \"elephant-tusk\", \"musical horn made of an elephant tusk\", or \"a musical instrument resembling such a horn\". The most famous use of the term in literature outside Tolkien is in \"The Song of Roland\", wherein the knight Roland fails to call for help at the Battle of Roncevaux using his oliphant horn until it is too late for him and his comrades. Roland's horn is echoed in \"The Lord of the Rings\" by Boromir's horn and counterposed by Helm's horn and the horns of Buckland.\n\nIn the film version of \"The Two Towers\" and \"The Return of the King\", the mûmak is shown as a massive, building-sized elephant with two tusks on the upper jaw and two on the lower jaw (much like the extinct Gomphothere), whereof the legs are longer and the head smaller in proportion to the body, than those of extant elephants, somewhat more like the long-legged, smaller-headed Columbian mammoth; and the mûmak's back is humped, akin to the Asian elephant. In the director's commentary, Peter Jackson joked he was told to make the animals as vicious as possible, otherwise audiences might relate scenes of cavalry attacking the animals to those of trained animal abuse in circuses.\n\nA species of wolves often allied with orcs. Tolkien took the name from the Old Norse word \"vargr\" (for \"wolf\"). Sometimes called 'Hound of Sauron', they appear in \"The Lay of Leithian\", \"The Hobbit\", and \"The Fellowship of the Ring\". The two later Peter Jackson film adaptations from \"The Lord of the Rings\" trilogy had more hyena-like depictions of them, some even resembling the extinct, heavier-bodied Cenozoic \"Hyaenodon\" in appearance. Peter Jackson's \"The Hobbit\" trilogy, however, depicts them as more wolf-like and gives them more prominence in the story.\n\nSome of the dragons of Middle-earth could fly, others had no wings. All were inherently evil.\n\nDumbledors and Hummerhorns are creatures fought by the hero of the poem \"Errantry\". A \"dumbledor\" is an English dialect word for bumblebee, while \"\"Hummerhorn\" seems to be a Tolkien invention\" for a large \"wasp or hornet\".\n\nFlying creatures that were used by the Nazgûl as steeds during the later parts of the War of the Ring. Tolkien did not use this phrase as a proper name for them (it is simply a description; \"fell\" means \"fierce, awful, terrible\"), but absent any other name, they are usually called \"fell beasts\". Tolkien describes one thus:\n\nA few paragraphs later it is said to attack with \"beak and claw\". In one of Tolkein's personal letters, he does not confirm, but acknowledges, the common comparison to a pterosaur.\n\n\"The Hobbit\" describes a colony of sapient and oversized spiders in the northern parts of Mirkwood at the end of the Third Age. The Elves of Thranduil's realm tried unsuccessfully to exterminate them. During the events of the book, Thorin's company of Dwarves was captured by spiders and enmeshed in webs; however, Bilbo Baggins managed to free them with the aid of his sword Sting and his magic ring.\n\n\"The Lord of the Rings\" adds that these spiders were of the brood of Shelob, who in turn was a child of Ungoliant, and that they inhabited southern regions of Mirkwood as well. It also suggests that the spiders appeared after the Shadow fell on Mirkwood around .\n\nThe Neekerbreekers are described as \"evil relatives of the cricket.\" They lived in the Midgewater Marshes, east of Bree in central Eriador. They were given the onomatopoeic nickname \"Neekerbreekers\" by Sam Gamgee, referring to their incessant chirping at night.\n\n\"The Hobbit\" refers to \"wild Were-worms in the Last Desert\" in \"the East of East\".\n\nAn intelligent raven that lived upon Ravenhill beneath the Lonely Mountain in the days of King Thrór. He and his mate nested above the guard-chamber there. Carc fathered Roäc, who featured in \"The Hobbit\", in .\n\nFisher Blue is one of the birds who roam the Withywindle river and who are familiar to Tom Bombadil. Fisher Blue talks with Bombadil (or at least Bombadil understand the bird's language) and teases him, but later assists him. Fisher Blue features in the second poem in \"The Adventures of Tom Bombadil\". He also contributes the blue hat-feather that Bombadil wears in \"The Lord of the Rings\". Tolkien in one of his letters confirms that the species is a Common kingfisher.\n\nOne of the great eagles, Gwaihir is perhaps best known for rescuing Gandalf from the tower of Orthanc, ending Gandalf's captivity by Saruman. Also, Gwaihir rescued Gandalf after his battle with the balrog in Moria. He, his brother Landroval, and Meneldor accompanied Gandalf to rescue Sam and Frodo from Mount Doom at the end of the War of the Ring.\n\nLittle Bird is one of the creatures who roam the Withywindle river and who are familiar to Tom Bombadil. She is a willow warbler (Tolkien uses the old name \"willow-wren\"), and brings news to Bombadil; thus her name is an allusion to the idiom \"a little bird told me\". She features in the second poem in \"The Adventures of Tom Bombadil\".\n\nOld Swan is one of the birds who roam the Withywindle river and who are familiar to Tom Bombadil. Old Swan is a cob (male) of the mute swan species (\"dumb-throat\"), and lives on Elvet-isle, an eyot in the river. It was from Old Swan that Bombadil obtained his original hat-feather. At one point Bombadil casually threatens Old Swan with upping by the Kings of Arnor. Old Swan features in the second poem in \"The Adventures of Tom Bombadil\".\n\nThe son of Carc the Raven, born in . By the time of the Quest of Erebor organised by Thorin II Oakenshield, Roäc had become the leader of the great ravens of the Lonely Mountain, although it is stated that \"he was getting blind, he could hardly fly, and the top of his head was bald.\" With his and his flock's help, Thorin's company gathered news and communicated with Dáin II Ironfoot before the Battle of Five Armies.\n\nThe Lord of Eagles in the First Age, said in \"The Silmarillion\" to be the \"mightiest of all birds that have ever been\", with a wingspan of thirty fathoms (54.9 meters, or 180 feet) and a beak of gold. His name translates from Sindarin, an Elven tongue devised by Tolkien, as 'King of Eagles'; its cognate form in Quenya, another Elven language, is Sorontar. He led the eagles during most of their appearances in \"The Silmarillion\", and has a significant role of his own.\n\nThorondor first enters the narrative when he helped the Elven-prince Fingon rescue his kinsman Maedhros from imprisonment upon Thangorodrim. After the Dagor Bragollach, he saved Fingolfin's body from defilement by his slayer Morgoth, giving the Dark Lord a scar on his face and carrying the Elven-king's corpse to the Encircling Mountains north of Gondolin, where it was buried by Turgon. Shortly afterwards, Thorondor espied Húrin and Huor at the feet of the Mountains, and sent two of his servants to fetch them and bear to Gondolin, fulfilling thus the intentions of the Vala Ulmo. Thorondor and two other eagles rescued Lúthien and the wounded Beren from the doors of Angband during their Quest of the Silmaril, taking them to Doriath.\n\nThe horse that Húrin Lord of Dor-lómin rode to the battle of Nírnaeth Arnoediad. Neither horse nor rider returned, and Morwen Húrin's wife \"listened for his footfall in the sleepless watches of the night, or would wake thinking that she had heard in the courtyard the neigh of Arroch his horse\".\n\nNahar (from the Valarin Næχærra) was the horse of the Vala Oromë. It was the neighing of Nahar that alerted Oromë to the presence of the Quendi when he came upon them for the first time, and light from the sparks his hooves threw up were the first light in Valinor after the darkening of the trees.\n\nThe horse of Fingolfin, High King of the Noldor. Rochallor bore the King to the gates of Angband, where a desperate and fearless Fingolfin challenged Morgoth to single combat. Rochallor stayed by his master throughout the duel, but was driven away by wolves. He died of a burst heart in Hithlum soon afterwards.\n\nThe grey horse given to Legolas by the Riders of Rohan in \"The Two Towers\". Gimli also rides him, sitting behind Legolas, until they reach Minas Tirith. The epilogue to \"The Lord of the Rings\" (published in \"The History of Middle-earth\", volume IX, \"Sauron Defeated\") has Sam saying that \"Legolas let his horse run back free to Rohan from Isengard\", presumably after the war, when Legolas and Gimli left the rest of the Company to visit Aglarond and Fangorn. The name Arod means 'swift' and 'noble.' In \"The Lord of the Rings\" by \"J.R.R. Tolkien\" Legolas refers to Arod as 'brave' and 'a defender of the Elves' when the horse so willingly carried Legolas and Gimli through all their perils on their quest.\n\nBrego is a horse of Rohan ridden by Aragorn in Peter Jackson's film adaptations of and . He was originally Théodred's horse. Aragorn first meets him in the stables at Edoras, where two of the Rohirrim are struggling to bring him under control, and Aragorn calms him by speaking Elvish to him, and then tells Éowyn to set him free. After Aragorn’s fall in the skirmish with the Warg riders, Brego carries him to Helm's Deep. Aragorn continues to ride Brego until their arrival at the door to the Paths of the Dead, at which point Brego and Arod bolt.\n\nIn Tolkien’s writings, the name Brego refers only to the second King of Rohan. This is noted in the film version of \"The Two Towers\" when Aragorn, speaking in Elvish to Brego at Edoras, tells him, \"Your name is kingly\".\n\nThe first of the Mearas, a white stallion, described as being as intelligent and long-lived as any human, and capable of understanding the speech of Men.\n\nFelaróf began life as a wild horse in Éothéod, a land near the sources of the Anduin in northern Wilderland. He was captured as a foal by Léod, lord of Éothéod and a tamer of horses. Felaróf grew in captivity but no one could tame him. In Léod attempted to mount him, but was killed when the horse threw him.\n\nLéod's son Eorl the Young (then aged 16) vowed to avenge his father, commanding the horse to serve him as weregild for his father. Eorl named the horse \"Felaróf\" (meaning \"very valiant, very strong\" in the Anglo-Saxon poetic vocabulary) and rode him without bit or bridle. They took part in the Battle of the Field of Celebrant. Felaróf was buried in Eorl's burial mound.\n\nThe horse of Éomer of Rohan; he bore Éomer and Gimli from Edoras to Helm's Deep before the Battle of the Hornburg.\n\nThe horse given to Aragorn by the Riders of Rohan in \"The Two Towers\". Previously, this horse had been ridden by a Rider named Garulf, killed in the recent skirmish with the band of orcs that had captured Merry and Pippin (\"May he bear you well and to better fortune than Garulf, his late master!\" — Éomer to Aragorn). Aragorn later rode his own horse, Roheryn, who came to Rohan with a company of Dúnedain from the north.\n\nThe name \"Hasufel\" derives from the Old English \"hasu\" 'grey, dusky' and \"fel\" 'coat, pelt'.\n\nA horse of Rohan, and the sire of Snowmane. Lightfoot is mentioned on the inscription on Snowmane's grave (Snowmane's Howe).\n\nA horse of Rohan, and the chief of the \"Mearas\". Possessing fantastic speed and stamina, he features in \"The Lord of the Rings\" as the steed of Gandalf the Wizard. Like the other \"mearas\", Shadowfax was a 'grey' or silver stallion and could understand the speech of Men. His name is \"an anglicized form of ... OE \"Sceadu-fæx\"\", meaning \"Shadow-mane\"; the same element (Old Norse \"fax\" meaning \"mane\") appears in the names of the horses Skinfaxi and Hrímfaxi in Norse Mythology.\n\nShadowfax had been foaled in the Westfold dales of Rohan. Rohan's King Théoden effectively gave the horse to Gandalf on 20th 'September' . As Gandalf's steed he faced the Witch-king, participated in the Battle of the Morannon, and visited Tom Bombadil.\n\nNo one except Gandalf could ride Shadowfax. At Gandalf's request, Shadowfax also carried Gimli the Dwarf for a time, and later Pippin, a Hobbit.\n\nIn an unpublished epilogue and a letter Tolkien stated that Shadowfax passed West over the Sea with Gandalf; in \"The Lord of the Rings\" Gandalf appears with a \"great grey horse\" on the quay just before departing, and he had earlier promised Shadowfax (in the chapter \"The White Rider\") that they would not be parted again in this world.\n\nIn the film adaptations of \"\" and \"\", directed by Peter Jackson, Shadowfax was primarily played by a white horse named Blanco, owned by Cynthia Royal. Blanco was euthanized after illness in 2014. Another horse, an Andalusian stallion named Domero, played Shadowfax until its death in 2003. In Jackson's film of \"The Return of the King\", Shadowfax kicks Denethor onto the pyre in Minas Tirith's necropolis, which saves Faramir. However, in the book, Shadowfax does not participate in the pyre scene at all, having been left at the gate of the necropolis.\n\nThe horse of King Théoden of Rohan, who accompanied Théoden to the Battle of the Hornburg, and was ridden on the final charge out of the fortress. At the Battle of the Pelennor Fields, Snowmane was pierced by a black dart, causing him to fall onto Théoden. He was buried with honour on the field of battle; his grave, known as Snowmane's Howe, bore the inscription:\n\nÉowyn's grey horse. Disguised as Dernhelm, Éowyn rode with Merry on Windfola to the Battle of the Pelennor Fields. During the battle, Windfola was terrified by the Nazgûl's fell beast; Éowyn and Merry were thrown from Windfola's back, and Windfola ran wild over the plain.\n\nThe horse ridden by Glorfindel when he meets Strider and the Hobbits before they arrive at Rivendell. Asfaloth (meaning \"Foam Flower\" in Sindarin) carries Frodo alone to the Ford of Bruinen. 'Ride on! Ride on!' cried Glorfindel, and then loud and clear he called to the horse in the elf-tongue: \"noro lim, noro lim, Asfaloth!\"\" (Sindarin for 'run quickly'). --\"The Fellowship of the Ring\", \"Flight to the Ford\" In the , Asfaloth is Arwen's horse and the two flee with the wounded Frodo across the ford from the Black Riders.\n\nThe name \"Roheryn\" means 'horse of the lady' in Tolkien's invented Elven language, Sindarin; this stems from the gift of the horse to Aragorn by Arwen. Roheryn was brought to Aragorn in the South by his kinsman Halbarad during the War of the Ring, prior to the Battle of the Pelennor Fields. He, Arod, and the other horses of the Dúnedain went with their masters on the Paths of the Dead and made the great march to Pelargir.\n\nA pony bought in Bree for the exorbitant price of twelve silver pennies by Barliman Butterbur for Frodo Baggins and his companions, to replace the ponies stolen from them. Butterbur purchased Bill from Bill Ferny, a neighbor in league with the spies who stole the other ponies. In the hobbits' service Bill became a fatter and happier pony. He was named 'Bill' by Sam Gamgee shortly after the party left Bree.\n\nBill became acquainted with elvish horses in Rivendell, to his advantage. He accompanied the Fellowship of the Ring (indeed he is described as a \"member\" of the group) from Rivendell to the doors of Moria, but had to be left behind there. An attack by the Watcher in the Water left the Company thinking him slain; but he returned to Bree, where he was nursed back to health and reunited with Sam on the return journey to the Shire. Bill's old master, Bill Ferny, had been set by Lotho Sackville-Baggins to watch the gate at the Brandywine bridge into the Shire; and after he was cowed into submission by the hobbits, Bill the pony gave him a kick. Sam later took the pony to Hobbiton.\n\nOne of five ponies obtained by Meriadoc Brandybuck and used by the hobbits to ride from Crickhollow (on the eastern borders of the Shire) to Bree. One of the ponies bore Frodo Baggins, and therefore the One Ring. Their journey passed through the Old Forest and stayed at the house of Tom Bombadil, where the ponies got to know Bombadil's pony, Fatty Lumpkin.\n\nThe hobbits became separated from the five ponies during an encounter with a barrow-wight. The hobbits were rescued by Bombadil, who also reunited them with the ponies. Bombadil gave the five ponies their names at this time: \"Sharp-ears, Wise-nose, Swish-tail, and Bumpkin, White-socks my little lad\"; from then on they answered only to those names.\n\nThe five ponies later vanish, during the attack on Bree by the Black Riders. The reader is told that the ponies find their way to Bombadil and Fatty Lumpkin, and are eventually sent back to Bree, to be looked after by Barliman Butterbur.\n\nThe pony kept by Tom Bombadil. Fatty Lumpkin (sometimes just \"Lumpkin\") was rarely ridden by Tom, and spent much of his time roaming free on the Barrow-downs. The ponies of Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin got to know Fatty Lumpkin and managed to find him after the hobbits encountered a wight in the Barrow-downs. When the hobbits' ponies escaped from Bree, their familiarity with Fatty Lumpkin led them back to Tom's house.\n\n\"See\" Bumpkin.\n\nThe pony ridden by Frodo Baggins from Minas Tirith back to the Shire, and from the Shire to the Grey Havens. The pony came to be known as Strider during or after the journey from Minas Tirith.\n\nThe pony given by King Théoden of Rohan to Merry Brandybuck. He is described as small, shaggy, and grey. Théoden's reason for leaving Merry in Edoras while he rides to Gondor to do battle is that Stybba cannot keep up with the horses of the Rohirrim, and none of the riders can carry Merry. The name is from Old English \"styb\" \"stub, stump\". Icelandic \"stubbur\" is a common name for sheep.\n\n\"See\" Bumpkin.\n\n\"See\" Bumpkin.\n\n\"See\" Bumpkin.\n\nNamed dogs also appear in two pieces of Tolkien's fiction that are not part of his legendarium: Garm, a significant character in \"Farmer Giles of Ham\", and Rover, the titular protagonist of \"Roverandom\".\n\nThe \"mightiest of all wolves\", bred by Morgoth and set to guard the gates of Angband. He bit off Beren's hand together with the Silmaril and was maddened by its touch. Carcharoth was slain by Huan, but not before he managed to wound mortally both the hound and Beren.\n\nA werewolf (the first to exist) in the service of Sauron in the First Age.\n\nBred from the wolves and inhabited with an evil spirit sent by Morgoth himself, Draugluin was the sire of all werewolves of Beleriand, including Carcharoth, and lived with his master Sauron in Tol-in-Gaurhoth, the former watchtower of Finrod Felagund.\n\nDraugluin was slain by the hound Huan during the Quest for the Silmaril, and Beren and Lúthien used his pelt to sneak into Angband.\n\nAn earlier form of the name was Drauglir. While Draugluin translates as \"blue wolf\" in Sindarin, a closer translation is believed to be \"pale wolf.\"\n\nFarmer Maggot's guard dogs.\n\nHuan, also known as the Hound of Valinor, was a great hound, approximately the same size as a small horse, given to Celegorm, one of the Sons of Fëanor, by the Vala Oromë the Hunter. When the Noldor under Fëanor rebelled, Huan went to Middle-earth with his master. For this reason, he fell under the Doom of Mandos.\n\nWhen Beren had gone with Finrod Felagund to Angband but had been captured in Tol-in-Gaurhoth, Lúthien set out to rescue him. She was intercepted by Celegorm and Curufin; whereas Huan captured her, and she was brought before Celegorm. Celegorm and Curufin took her as a prisoner to Nargothrond, secretly plotting to wed her to Celegorm and thereby force an alliance with Lúthien's father Thingol. Huan felt pity for Lúthien, and therefore told her of a way to escape, and accompanied her to Tol-in-Gaurhoth to rescue Beren, where he killed all of Sauron's werewolves, as well as Sauron himself in wolf form. Thereafter Huan returned to Celegorm, who had been exiled from Nargothrond by Orodreth.\n\nOn their way to Himring, Celegorm, Curufin, and Huan came across Beren and Lúthien in the north of Doriath. Curufin tried to kill Lúthien, but Huan drove Celegorm and Curufin away, and told Beren and Lúthien of his plan to gain entrance to Angband, disguised as the werewolf Draugluin and the vampire Thuringwethil. After Beren and Lúthien had won the Silmaril but Beren had lost his hand to the wolf Carcharoth, Huan joined Beren, Thingol, Beleg Cúthalion, and Mablung to capture the former. Huan and Beren killed Carcharoth; but Huan was mortally wounded, wished Beren farewell, and died.\n\nTolkien wrote he was either a beast-shaped Maia or a common animal taught to speak by the Valar.\n\nBadger-brock is one of the animals who live in or near the Withywindle river and who are familiar to Tom Bombadil. He lives in his sett with his sow and cubs. Bombadil stumbles into the sett, but convinces Badger-brock to let him leave unmolested. Badger-brock features in the eponymous first poem of \"The Adventures of Tom Bombadil\".\n\nThe cats used as spies by the Black Númenórean Berúthiel, a queen-consort of Gondor.\n\nThe great boar that roamed Everholt, a section of Firien Wood on the eastern border of Rohan. In King Folca of Rohan hunted this beast down and slew it, but he \"died of the tusk-wounds that it gave him.\"\n\nA monstrous cat in \"The Book of Lost Tales\". Tolkien developed the character into Sauron.\n\nWhisker-lad is an otter, one of the animals who roam the Withywindle river. Tom Bombadil is familiar with Whisker-lad and his family. Bombadil and Whisker-lad engage in repartee; one of Bombadil's retorts is a reference to the Norse lay of Ótr, when Bombadil threatens to give the hide of the disrespectful otter to the Barrow-wights, who he says will cover it with gold apart from a single whisker. Whisker-lad features in the second poem in \"The Adventures of Tom Bombadil\".\n\nFastitocalon, an enormous sea turtle, is the subject of a poem of the same name in \"The Adventures of Tom Bombadil\".\n\nAn \"evil thing in spider form\" that dwelt beneath the Pass of Cirith Ungol on the borders of Mordor. During the events of \"The Lord of the Rings\", she attacked the Ring-bearer Frodo Baggins, who passed through her lair, but was finally repelled by Sam Gamgee. She is called the \"last child of Ungoliant to trouble the unhappy world\".\n\nDescribed as an evil spirit in the form of a spider. She is mentioned briefly in \"The Lord of the Rings\", and plays a supporting role in \"The Silmarillion\". She is said to have given birth to Shelob. Her origins are unclear, as Tolkien's writings don't explicitly reveal her nature, other than that she is from \"before the world\".\n\nA mysterious creature with tentacles appearing in \"The Lord of the Rings\". At the end of the Third Age, it lived in a lake before the West-gate of Moria, and attacked the Company of the Ring during the events of the book. In Peter Jackson's film adaptation the Watcher somewhat resembles a cephalopod with an eversible, many-toothed mouth.\n\nThis section provides a list of the diverse range of real animals that are mentioned or alluded to in Tolkien's fiction. The species and types are animals familiar to Tolkien from the ecology of England and the mythologies of northern Europe. The inclusion of these animals in his legendarium reinforces the notion that Middle-earth is set in the Earth's Old World (albeit in a fictional prehistoric era).\n\nThis section generally uses traditional names and groupings rather than scientific taxonomy (biology).\n\ncrows, eagles, falcons, hawks, owls (including barn owls and white owls), ravens, vultures\n\nchickens, ducks, geese, quail\n\nfinches, larks, nightingales, robins, starlings, swallows, thrushes, willow-wrens, wrens\n\nboobies, coots, dabchicks, gulls, herons, kingfishers, storks, swans (especially the mute swan; there are also black swans, presumably not the black swan of Australia)\n\ndoves, sparrows\n\nbears, dogs, foxes, wolves\n\ncats, leopards, lions, pards\n\ncattle (wild and domesticated), deer, donkeys, goats, horses and ponies, pigs (wild and domesticated), sheep\n\nbadgers, beavers, hares, hedgehogs, mice (house mice, field mice), moles, otters, rabbits, rats (brown rats and black rats), squirrels, black squirrels, voles, water-rats, weasels\n\ndolphins, seals, whales\n\n(\"Roverandom\" is connected to the world of Middle-earth via Elvenhome)<br>\ndugongs, manatees, porpoises, right whales, sea-cows, sea-lions\n\napes, bats, vampire bats, elephants\n\nTolkien's \"The Father Christmas Letters\" are not set in Middle-earth (although they share Elves and Goblins). Nevertheless, the letters (especially 1932) contain references to, and his drawings of, some exotic mammals:-<br>\n\nfrogs, lizards, snakes (including adders, grass-snakes), sea-turtles, toads\n\nblind fish, dragonets, perch\n\n(\"Roverandom\" is connected to the world of Middle-earth via Elvenhome)<br>\neels, goldfish, minnows, redfish, sardines, sea-devils, sea-horses, sharks\n\nants (including black ants), beetles, blackbeetles, bumblebees, butterflies (including purple emperors), crickets, dragonflies, flies, glow-worms, gnats, grasshoppers, hornets, horseflies, locusts, midges, moths\n\nbees, scale-insects, silk-worms\n\nearth-worms, leeches, mites, slugs, snails, spiders\n\ncoral, pearl-oysters, periwinkles, sea-shells\n\n(\"Roverandom\" is connected to the universe of Middle-earth via Elvenhome)<br>\nanemones, barnacles, cephalopods, clams, cockles, conches, crabs, limpets, lobsters, mussels, oysters, sea-slugs, shrimp, sponges\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32285358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32285358", "title": "List of Sapindales of Montana", "text": "List of Sapindales of Montana\n\nThere are at least 8 members of the Creosote Bush, Maple and Sumac order: Sapindales found in Montana. Some of these species are exotics (not native to Montana).\n\nFamily: Zygophyllaceae\n\nFamily: Aceraceae\n\nFamily: Anacardiaceae\n\n"}
{"id": "6231747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6231747", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Dumbarton and North Glasgow", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Dumbarton and North Glasgow\n\nThe following is a list of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in the Dumbarton and North Glasgow Area of Search. For other areas, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "10834634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10834634", "title": "List of Superfund sites in Alaska", "text": "List of Superfund sites in Alaska\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in Alaska designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law. The CERCLA federal law of 1980 authorized the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to create a list of polluted locations requiring a long-term response to clean up hazardous material contaminations. \n\nThese locations are known as Superfund sites, and are placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). The NPL guides the EPA in \"determining which sites warrant further investigation\" for environmental remediation. As of March 26, 2010, there were six Superfund sites on the National Priorities List in Alaska. No additional sites are currently proposed for entry on the list. Three sites have been cleaned up and removed from the list.\n\nNote: There are also two NPL equivalent sites in the state of Alaska, which are not included in the table above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42200194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42200194", "title": "List of invasive plant species in Nevada", "text": "List of invasive plant species in Nevada\n\nNumerous plants have been introduced to Nevada in the United States, and many of them have become invasive species. The following are some of these species:\n\n"}
{"id": "40099854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40099854", "title": "List of ring galaxies", "text": "List of ring galaxies\n\nThis is a list of ring galaxies. A ring galaxy is a galaxy with a circle-like appearance. Hoag's Object, discovered by Art Hoag in 1950, is the prototypical example of a ring galaxy.\n\n"}
{"id": "5437696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5437696", "title": "List of rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "List of rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThis is a list of rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina ordered alphabetically.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20596866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20596866", "title": "List of rivers of Martinique", "text": "List of rivers of Martinique\n\nThis is a list of rivers of Martinique. Rivers are listed in clockwise order, starting at the north end of the island.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591662", "title": "List of stars in Draco", "text": "List of stars in Draco\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Draco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "106231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106231", "title": "Macromolecule", "text": "Macromolecule\n\nA macromolecule is a very large molecule, such as protein, commonly created by the polymerization of smaller subunits (monomers). They are typically composed of thousands of atoms or more. The most common macromolecules in biochemistry are biopolymers (nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates and lipids) and large non-polymeric molecules (such as lipids and macrocycles). Synthetic macromolecules include common plastics and synthetic fibers as well as experimental materials such as carbon nanotubes.\n\nThe term \"macromolecule\" (\"macro-\" + \"molecule\") was coined by Nobel laureate Hermann Staudinger in the 1920s, although his first relevant publication on this field only mentions \"high molecular compounds\" (in excess of 1,000 atoms). At that time the phrase \"polymer\", as introduced by Berzelius in 1833, had a different meaning from that of today: it simply was another form of isomerism for example with benzene and acetylene and had little to do with size.\n\nUsage of the term to describe large molecules varies among the disciplines. For example, while biology refers to macromolecules as the four large molecules comprising living things, in chemistry, the term may refer to aggregates of two or more molecules held together by intermolecular forces rather than covalent bonds but which do not readily dissociate.\n\nAccording to the standard IUPAC definition, the term \"macromolecule\" as used in polymer science refers only to a single molecule. For example, a single polymeric molecule is appropriately described as a \"macromolecule\" or \"polymer molecule\" rather than a \"polymer,\" which suggests a substance composed of macromolecules.\n\nBecause of their size, macromolecules are not conveniently described in terms of stoichiometry alone. The structure of simple macromolecules, such as homopolymers, may be described in terms of the individual monomer subunit and total molecular mass. Complicated biomacromolecules, on the other hand, require multi-faceted structural description such as the hierarchy of structures used to describe proteins. In British English, the word \"macromolecule\" tends to be called \"high polymer\".\n\nMacromolecules often have unusual physical properties that do not occur for smaller molecules.\nAnother common macromolecular property that does not characterize smaller molecules is their relative insolubility in water and similar solvents, instead forming colloids. Many require salts or particular ions to dissolve in water. Similarly, many proteins will denature if the solute concentration of their solution is too high or too low.\n\nHigh concentrations of macromolecules in a solution can alter the rates and equilibrium constants of the reactions of other macromolecules, through an effect known as macromolecular crowding. This comes from macromolecules excluding other molecules from a large part of the volume of the solution, thereby increasing the effective concentrations of these molecules.\n\nAll living organisms are dependent on three essential biopolymers for their biological functions: DNA, RNA and proteins. Each of these molecules is required for life since each plays a distinct, indispensable role in the cell. The simple summary is that DNA makes RNA, and then RNA makes proteins.\n\nDNA, RNA, and proteins all consist of a repeating structure of related building blocks (nucleotides in the case of DNA and RNA, amino acids in the case of proteins). In general, they are all unbranched polymers, and so can be represented in the form of a string. Indeed, they can be viewed as a string of beads, with each bead representing a single nucleotide or amino acid monomer linked together through covalent chemical bonds into a very long chain.\n\nIn most cases, the monomers within the chain have a strong propensity to interact with other amino acids or nucleotides. In DNA and RNA, this can take the form of Watson-Crick base pairs (G-C and A-T or A-U), although many more complicated interactions can and do occur.\n\nBecause of the double-stranded nature of DNA, essentially all of the nucleotides take the form of Watson-Crick base pairs between nucleotides on the two complementary strands of the double-helix.\n\nIn contrast, both RNA and proteins are normally single-stranded. Therefore, they are not constrained by the regular geometry of the DNA double helix, and so fold into complex three-dimensional shapes dependent on their sequence. These different shapes are responsible for many of the common properties of RNA and proteins, including the formation of specific binding pockets, and the ability to catalyse biochemical reactions.\n\nDNA is an information storage macromolecule that encodes the complete set of instructions (the genome) that are required to assemble, maintain, and reproduce every living organism.\n\nDNA and RNA are both capable of encoding genetic information, because there are biochemical mechanisms which read the information coded within a DNA or RNA sequence and use it to generate a specified protein. On the other hand, the sequence information of a protein molecule is not used by cells to functionally encode genetic information.\n\nDNA has three primary attributes that allow it to be far better than RNA at encoding genetic information. First, it is normally double-stranded, so that there are a minimum of two copies of the information encoding each gene in every cell. Second, DNA has a much greater stability against breakdown than does RNA, an attribute primarily associated with the absence of the 2'-hydroxyl group within every nucleotide of DNA. Third, highly sophisticated DNA surveillance and repair systems are present which monitor damage to the DNA and repair the sequence when necessary. Analogous systems have not evolved for repairing damaged RNA molecules. Consequently, chromosomes can contain many billions of atoms, arranged in a specific chemical structure.\n\nProteins are functional macromolecules responsible for catalysing the biochemical reactions that sustain life. Proteins carry out all functions of an organism, for example photosynthesis, neural function, vision, and movement.\n\nThe single-stranded nature of protein molecules, together with their composition of 20 or more different amino acid building blocks, allows them to fold in to a vast number of different three-dimensional shapes, while providing binding pockets through which they can specifically interact with all manner of molecules. In addition, the chemical diversity of the different amino acids, together with different chemical environments afforded by local 3D structure, enables many proteins to act as enzymes, catalyzing a wide range of specific biochemical transformations within cells. In addition, proteins have evolved the ability to bind a wide range of cofactors and coenzymes, smaller molecules that can endow the protein with specific activities beyond those associated with the polypeptide chain alone.\n\nRNA is multifunctional, its primary function is to encode proteins, according to the instructions within a cell’s DNA. They control and regulate many aspects of protein synthesis in eukaryotes.\n\nRNA encodes genetic information that can be translated into the amino acid sequence of proteins, as evidenced by the messenger RNA molecules present within every cell, and the RNA genomes of a large number of viruses. The single-stranded nature of RNA, together with tendency for rapid breakdown and a lack of repair systems means that RNA is not so well suited for the long-term storage of genetic information as is DNA.\n\nIn addition, RNA is a single-stranded polymer that can, like proteins, fold into a very large number of three-dimensional structures. Some of these structures provide binding sites for other molecules and chemically-active centers that can catalyze specific chemical reactions on those bound molecules. The limited number of different building blocks of RNA (4 nucleotides vs >20 amino acids in proteins), together with their lack of chemical diversity, results in catalytic RNA (ribozymes) being generally less-effective catalysts than proteins for most biological reactions.\n\nCarbohydrate macromolecules (polysaccharides) are formed from polymers of monosaccharides. Because monosaccharides have multiple functional groups, polysaccharides can form linear polymers (e.g. cellulose) or complex branched structures (e.g. glycogen). Polysaccharides perform numerous roles in living organisms, acting as energy stores (e.g. starch) and as structural components (e.g. chitin in arthropods and fungi). Many carbohydrates contain modified monosaccharide units that have had functional groups replaced or removed.\n\nPolyphenols consist of a branched structure of multiple phenolic subunits. They can perform structural roles (e.g. lignin) as well as roles as secondary metabolites involved in signalling, pigmentation and defense.\n\nSome examples of macromolecules are synthetic polymers (plastics, synthetic fibers, and synthetic rubber), graphene, and carbon nanotubes. Polymers may be prepared from inorganic matter as well as for instance in inorganic polymers and geopolymers. The incorporation of inorganic elements enables the tunability of properties and/or responsive behavior as for instance in smart inorganic polymers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5586128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5586128", "title": "Meteotsunami", "text": "Meteotsunami\n\nA meteotsunami or meteorological tsunami is a tsunami-like wave of meteorological origin. Meteotsunamis are generated when rapid changes in barometric pressure cause the displacement of a body of water. In contrast to \"ordinary\" impulse-type tsunami sources, a traveling atmospheric disturbance normally interacts with the ocean over a limited period of time (from several minutes to several hours). Tsunamis and meteotsunamis are otherwise similar enough that it can be difficult to distinguish one from the other, as in cases where there is a tsunami wave but there are no seismic records of an earthquake.\n\nOnly about 3% of historical tsunami events (from 2000 BC through 2014) are known to have meteorological origins, although their true prevalence may be considerably higher than this because 10% of historical tsunamis have unknown origins, tsunami events in the past are often difficult to validate, and meteotsunamis may have previously been misclassified as seiche waves.\n\nMeteotsunamis are restricted to local effects because they lack the energy available to significant seismic tsunami. However, when they are amplified by resonance they can be hazardous. A meteotsunami that struck Nagasaki Bay on 31 March 1979 achieved a maximum wave height of 5 meters; there were three fatalities. A three-meter wave that hit the Chicago waterfront in 1954 swept people off of piers, drowning seven.\n\nIn some parts of the world, they are common enough to have local names: \"rissaga\" (Catalan), \"ressaca\" (Portuguese), \"milgħuba\" (Maltese), \"marrobbio\" (Italian), \"abiki\" (Japanese), \"šćiga\" (Croatian). Some bodies of water are more susceptible than others, including anywhere that the natural resonance frequency matches that of the waves, such as in long and narrow bays, particularly where the inlet is aligned with the oncoming wave. Examples of particularly susceptible areas include Nagasaki Bay, the eastern Adriatic Sea, and the Western Mediterranean.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35887609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35887609", "title": "Nu Lupi", "text": "Nu Lupi\n\nThe Bayer designation Nu Lupi (ν Lup / ν Lupi) is shared by two stars, in the constellation Lupus (constellation):\n"}
{"id": "40005337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40005337", "title": "Open-geomorphometry project", "text": "Open-geomorphometry project\n\nThe open-geomorphometry project is a 2012 open source computer code project created for the public availability of geomorphometry code. This code, written by Dr. Bob MacMillan, is known amongst its primary users as LandMapR (LandMapR has since become a copyrighted term in the U.S. for an agricultural remote sensing device). LandMapR, and the new open-geomorphometry project, operate digital elevation data to produce maps including but not limited to: hydrological flow, catchments, depression or pits, water pooling, wetness index, topographic derivatives, and landform classifications.\n\nLandMapR performs a number of operations on Digital Elevation Models (DEMs), from calculating hydrological flow directions, water pooling, to performing sophisticated topographical landform classifications (see for example Jensen et al., (1988), or O'Callaghan et al., (1984) and references therein). LandMapR is an all-in-one tool for extracting information from DEMs. The initial version of the software was written by Dr. Bob MacMillan as part of his Ph.D. thesis at the University of Edinburgh in 1993, and was coded in a Microsoft Rapid Application Development language called FoxPro. The FoxPro version exists to today, but is not part of the open source effort due to its restriction as an interpreted language. The open-geomorphometry project makes the much faster C++ version of the software available. \n\nThe most unusual aspects of LandMapR and the open-geomorphometry project are the algorithms it implements to conduct 'pit' removal. Pits are depressions in the topography. Pits are usually seen as interfering with the flow. Typical pit removal (for example see Jensen et al. (1988)) involves simply removing depressions from DEMs in order to resolve flow paths. LandMapR also conducts these operations on 'spurious' pits, but goes beyond normal pit removal procedures to treat watersheds, which are depressions, as a potential heirachichal path for flows and figures out how one pit might flow into another to produce new flow channels in a field.\n\nThe applications for this kind of pit-removal are almost unlimited. Water and cold air pooling in vineyards and farm fields represent a serious issue in generating high yield crops. For example, a farm field has recently been fertilized with granular heavy phosphorus fertilizer. Knowing the distribution density of this fertilizer across the field it is possible to use pit removal to calculated the area to flow calculations as well as the potential residence times that would enable an estimate of how much rain is required to carry that fertilizer off into local streams. The area to flow capability of the pit removal calculations in LandMapR are unique.\n\nThe open-source open-geomorphometry project forms the basis, or the geomorphology part, of some of the work being documented on the Phytogeomorphology page, and is the chosen software tool for much of that work.\n\nA DEM, or digital elevation model, is, most simply, a map at some resolution of the heights of land in a field or area. The resolution of the DEM is usually stated in meters and is a measure of how much area each elevation estimate in the map covers. In raster form, a DEM may be looked at as a regular grid of cells of various heights. Increasing the resolution of the DEM, or making the cell size smaller, produces a closer estimate of the real surface.\n\nDEMs can be produced in a number of ways (see, for example Moore et al., (1991), and Wilson et al., (2000)) but the highest resolution DEMs result from dense LiDAR data. Bangs et al., (2013) recently performed a comparison of DEM resolutions and their ability to properly represent the surface of a farm field in Simcoe, Ontario using one of the highest density LiDAR data clouds ever attempted (some 240 million points on a field 1 km by 800 meters). The paper concluded that DEM resolution well in excess of 1 meter was required to adequately represent a farm field at 5 meter resolution.\n\nLandMapR as a hydrological tool performs a number of useful operations on DEMs. Within LandMapR are a number of distinct operations. The original code had 19 operators that could be applied sequentially to the datasets. The newer versions in the open source project break the tasks into four areas; flow calculations, pit removal (catchment hydrology), facets (landform derivatives), and form (landform derivatives). Each section has a sequence of output maps. Currently, the flow and pit removal calculations result in 5 major maps: flow direction, upslope contribution/area, watersheds, volume to flood, and millimeters to flood, and several minor maps that show the stages of pit removal.\n\nIn the limited context of a landform being a component of a farm field topography, LandMapR is used to compute surface derivatives and other topological values, as well as using fuzzy logic to divide a farm field into a collection of landform classes. LandMapR is capable of defining a large number of landform classes and allowing the user to define criterion for membership in each of these classes.\n\nOpen-geomorphometry project homepage at Code.Google.com\n"}
{"id": "2269568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2269568", "title": "Rainband", "text": "Rainband\n\nA rainband is a cloud and precipitation structure associated with an area of rainfall which is significantly elongated. Rainbands can be stratiform or convective, and are generated by differences in temperature. When noted on weather radar imagery, this precipitation elongation is referred to as banded structure. Rainbands within tropical cyclones are curved in orientation. Tropical cyclone rainbands contain showers and thunderstorms that, together with the eyewall and the eye, constitute a hurricane or tropical storm. The extent of rainbands around a tropical cyclone can help determine the cyclone's intensity.\n\nRainbands spawned near and ahead of cold fronts can be squall lines which are able to produce tornadoes. Rainbands associated with cold fronts can be warped by mountain barriers perpendicular to the front's orientation due to the formation of a low-level barrier jet. Bands of thunderstorms can form with sea breeze and land breeze boundaries, if enough moisture is present. If sea breeze rainbands become active enough just ahead of a cold front, they can mask the location of the cold front itself. Banding within the comma head precipitation pattern of an extratropical cyclone can yield significant amounts of rain or snow. Behind extratropical cyclones, rainbands can form downwind of relative warm bodies of water such as the Great Lakes. If the atmosphere is cold enough, these rainbands can yield heavy snow.\n\nRainbands in advance of warm occluded fronts and warm fronts are associated with weak upward motion, and tend to be wide and stratiform in nature. In an atmosphere with rich low level moisture and vertical wind shear, narrow, convective rainbands known as squall lines generally in the cyclone's warm sector, ahead of strong cold fronts associated with extratropical cyclones. Wider rain bands can occur behind cold fronts, which tend to have more stratiform, and less convective, precipitation. Within the cold sector north to northwest of a cyclone center, in colder cyclones, small scale, or mesoscale, bands of heavy snow can occur within a cyclone's comma head precipitation pattern with a width of to . These bands in the comma head are associated with areas of frontogensis, or zones of strengthening temperature contrast. Southwest of extratropical cyclones, curved flow bringing cold air across the relatively warm Great Lakes can lead to narrow lake effect snow bands which bring significant localized snowfall.\n\nRainbands exist in the periphery of tropical cyclones, which point towards the cyclone's center of low pressure. Rainbands within tropical cyclones require ample moisture and a low level pool of cooler air. Bands located to from a cyclone's center migrate outward. They are capable of producing heavy rains and squalls of wind, as well as tornadoes, particularly in the storm's right-front quadrant.\n\nSome rainbands move closer to the center, forming a secondary, or outer, eyewall within intense hurricanes. Spiral rainbands are such a basic structure to a tropical cyclone that in most tropical cyclone basins, use of the satellite-based Dvorak technique is the primary method used to determine a tropical cyclone's maximum sustained winds. Within this method, the extent of spiral banding and difference in temperature between the eye and eyewall is used to assign a maximum sustained wind and a central pressure. Central pressure values for their centers of low pressure derived from this technique are approximate.\n\nDifferent programs have been studying these rainbands, including the Hurricane Rainband and Intensity Change Experiment.\n\nConvective rainbands can form parallel to terrain on its windward side, due to lee waves triggered by hills just upstream of the cloud's formation. Their spacing is normally to apart. When bands of precipitation near frontal zones approach steep topography, a low-level barrier jet stream forms parallel to and just prior to the mountain ridge, which slows down the frontal rainband just prior to the mountain barrier. If enough moisture is present, sea breeze and land breeze fronts can form convective rainbands. Sea breeze front thunderstorm lines can become strong enough to mask the location of an approaching cold front by evening. The edge of ocean currents can lead to the development of thunderstorm bands due to heat differential at this interface. Downwind of islands, bands of showers and thunderstorms can develop due to low level wind convergence downwind of the island edges. Offshore California, this has been noted in the wake of cold fronts.\n\n"}
{"id": "21972725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21972725", "title": "Robert D. Cess", "text": "Robert D. Cess\n\nRobert D. Cess is professor emeritus of atmospheric sciences at Stony Brook University. He earned his bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering from Oregon State University and his master's degree from Purdue University in Indiana in 1956. Cess received a Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh in 1959. He is a recognized leader in the fields of climate change and atmospheric radiation transfer. His research interest involve modeling of climate feedbacks that can either amplify or diminish global climate change, and interpreting surface and satellite remote sensing data.\n\nHe has been a part of studies which have found problems with the ability of model the transmission of shortwave radiation through a cloud-free atmosphere, and designed an experiment to test the accuracy of the models. They reported that they found agreement between the models and the observations of clear-sky shortwave radiation at the surface for the period studied, 1985 to 1988. Cess was a lead author of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and worked with the National Science Foundation on understanding greenhouse warming and its associated policy implications.\n\nCess has won numerous awards, including NASA's highest scientific honor—the NASA Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal in 1989. In 2006, he received the \"Jule G. Charney Award\", which is awarded to scientists in recognition of significant research in the atmospheric or hydrologic sciences, from the American Meteorological Society \"for his outstanding contributions to our understanding of the science of atmospheric radiation and climate change and the role of clouds in climate models.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57206867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57206867", "title": "Robert Houze", "text": "Robert Houze\n\nRobert A. Houze, Jr., is an American atmospheric scientist, researcher and author, Professor Emeritus of Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington, and Laboratory Fellow of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. At the University of Washington, he led a research team known as the Mesoscale Group for 46 years. He and his group participated in international field projects around the world and global satellite programs employing weather radar and aircraft in the tropics and midlatitudes, in projects sponsored by NSF, NASA, DOE, and NOAA. Houze has been on the science teams for three NASA satellites for the global study of clouds and precipitation. The predominant areas of his research are tropical convective clouds, extreme storms, flooding in the Asian Monsoon, tropical cyclones, and midlatitude frontal systems in mountainous regions.\n\nHouze has published over 200 research articles and has authored a comprehensive book on the physics and dynamics of all types of clouds in the atmosphere entitled \"Cloud Dynamics\". In 2017, the Robert A. Houze Jr. Symposium was organized to honor him at the American Meteorological Society's Annual Meeting.\n\nBorn in Texas in 1945, Houze grew up in College Station, near Texas A&M University, where he received a B.S. in Meteorology in 1967. He then attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), from which he received an M.S. in Meteorology in 1969, followed by a Ph.D. in Meteorology in 1972. At MIT, his mentor was Pauline Austin, a pioneer of using radar to study weather. After completing his Ph.D., Houze joined the University of Washington as an Assistant Professor in 1972 and rose to the level of full Professor in 1983. In 1988-89, he taught at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich as a Guest Professor. At the University of Washington, he has mentored 24 Ph.D.’s.\n\nHouze is a Fellow of the American Meteorological Society, and in 2006, he was awarded the Society’s highest research award, the Carl-Gustaf Rossby Research Medal. He is a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union, and in 2012 he delivered the Union’s Bjerknes Lecture. In 2013, he became a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He is a Fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society, and in 2014 he received that Society’s highest research award, the Symons Gold Medal.\n\nIn 2015, the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory designated Houze as a Laboratory Fellow, and since then he has held a joint University of Washington/Pacific Northwest National Laboratory appointment. He now spend about a quarter of his time with the Laboratory.\n\nIn 2017, the Robert A. Houze Jr. Symposium was organized to honor him at the American Meteorological Society's Annual Meeting.\n\nWhen he arrived at the University of Washington in 1972, Houze began developing what became known as his Mesoscale Group. With this group, he conducted research for over 46 years. In the early years, he participated in the Global Atmospheric Research Programme’s Atlantic Tropical Experiment (GATE)—the largest field campaign ever to study weather. In GATE, he was on board a ship instrumented with radar, and was one of the first to use radar to document a tropical squall line. Soon after GATE, he joined the international Monsoon Experiment (MONEX), in which he conducted radar studies on clouds in the winter monsoon in Malaysia in 1978-79. The MONEX study was one of the first field campaigns to collect airborne radar data.\n\nSince these projects he has conducted radar studies over all the major oceans and over mountain ranges in Europe and North America. The GATE experience launched a career of using radar on ships, islands and aircraft in field campaigns around the world—in northern Australia, Malaysia, India, Africa, the Italian Alps, the Solomon Islands, the Maldives, and various locations in the U.S.—especially to study fronts passing over the Cascade and Olympic Mountains, to fly into hurricanes over the Gulf, Atlantic, and Pacific, and to study thunderstorms over Kansas. In 2015, he led OLYMPEX in which numerous state-of-the-art radars were used to study how frontal storms moving from the Pacific Ocean over the Olympic Mountains produce enormous rainfall in the rain forests of northwestern North America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1984682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984682", "title": "Rūpa", "text": "Rūpa\n\nIn Hinduism and Buddhism, rūpa (Sanskrit; Pāli; Devanagari: ; ) means 'form'. While it may be used to express matter or material phenomena, especially that linked to the power of vision in samkhya, it is also used to describe subtle and spiritual realities such as \"svarupa\" meaning the form of the self.\n\nAccording to the Monier-Williams Dictionary (2006), rūpa is defined as:\n\nIn general, \"rūpa\" is the Buddhist concept of material form, including both the body and external matter.\n\nMore specifically, in the Pali Canon, \"rūpa\" is contextualized in three significant frameworks:\n\nIn addition, more generally, \"rūpa\" is used to describe a statue, in which it is sometimes called Buddharupa.\n\nRūpa is not matter as in the metaphysical substance of materialism. Instead it means both materiality and sensibility — signifying, for example, a tactile object both insofar as that object is made of matter and that the object can be tactically sensed. In fact rūpa is more essentially defined by its amenability to being sensed than its being matter: just like everything else it is defined in terms of its function; what it does, not what it is. As matter, rūpa is traditionally analysed in two ways: as four primary elements (Pali, \"mahābhūta\"); and, as ten or twenty-four secondary or derived elements.\n\nExisting \"rūpa\" consists in the four primary or underived (\"no-upādā\") elements: \n\nIn the Abhidhamma Pitaka and later Pali literature, \"rūpa\" is further analyzed in terms of ten or twenty-three or twenty-four types of secondary or derived (\"upādā\") matter. In the list of ten types of secondary matter, the following are identified:\n\nIf twenty-four secondary types are enumerated, then the following fifteen are added to the first nine of the above ten: \n\nA list of 23 derived types can be found, for instance, in the Abhidhamma Pitaka's Dhammasangani (e.g., Dhs. 596), which omits the list of 24 derived types' \"heart-basis.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31205347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31205347", "title": "Shrinkage (fabric)", "text": "Shrinkage (fabric)\n\nShrinkage(in fabric) is a parameter of testing textile fabrics to measure changes in length and width after washing (laundry), shrinkage failing materials are dimensionally unstable and they can cause de shaping and deforming of the garments or products made out of those materials, it is tested at various stages but important is to before cutting the fabric into further sewn products and after cutting and sewing prior to supplying the products to buyers and end users.It is a necessarily required parameter of quality control to ensure the sizes of the products to avoid any complaints regarding deformation or change in dimensions after domestic laundry. The tests are conducted with provided specifications of buyers imitating the same conditions like washing cycle time, temperature and water ratio and fabric load and sometimes top loading and front loading washing machines are chosen to authenticate the test and assurance of the results. This procedure provides standard and alternate home laundering conditions using an automatic washing machine. While the procedure includes several options, it is not possible to include every existing combination of laundering parameters. The test is applicable to all fabrics and end products suitable for home laundering.\n\nShrinkage is a change in dimensions across the length and width of the fabric after washing, usage and when exposed to relaxing of fabrics. Mainly shrinkage is of two types one is minus shrinkage and other is plus shrinkage. Skew (twisting of the vertical grains) is also observed along with shrinkage. Abnormal twisting is also considered as a non-conformity. \n\nComposition and content determine the type and percentage of fibres. Natural fibres shrink more than synthetic fibres. Synthetic fibres are more stable due to their crystalline and thermoplastic nature. They do not shrink, whereas natural fibres are more prone to shrink because of more amorphous region in their fibre structure which allows more absorption of water, swelling of fibres and increased lubricity increases the shrinking tendency. Blended fabrics normally synthetic and natural are also considered more stable.\nThis factor also plays a vital role in the shrinking of the products. The products which are loosely woven or knitted are prone to shrink more and tightly knitted and woven products are more stable. The main reason is that knitted fabrics shrinkage is because they are made by interlooping the yarn which is comparatively a loose and flexible structure whereas woven are considered more stable and less sensitive to shrinkage.\nFibres to fabric conversion implies lots of mechanical tensions and forces during manufacturing, which includes following steps for fibre to yarn conversion with spinning then fabric with weaving, knitting.\nWhen the products are immersed in water, the water acts as a relaxing medium and all stresses and strains get relaxed and try to come back to its original relaxed state. Even after finishing with sophisticated finishing machines some residual shrinkage remains, which is carried forward to the garment stage. This residual shrinkage may cause deformity or de-shaping of the products after domestic laundry. There are certain acceptance limits of shrinkage levels for every product. Abnormal shrinkage levels are considered a non-conformity to quality standards.\n\nThe different test methods are used as per the final destination of the product like in Europe, U.S.A., etc.and expected washing or laundry methods in practice over there.Mainly I.S.O. and AATCC standards are used for shrinkage testing. There are few brands which are customizing the test method as per their quality norms.\nTest Method(s):\n\nAATCC Test Method 135, Dimensional Change of Fabrics After Home Laundering\nScope: Determines the dimensional changes of garments when subjected to home laundering procedures used by consumers. The method is for fabric not yet made into a garment. A sample is marked with benchmarks before home laundering. Then it is laundered 3 times total, then the benchmarks are measured again. Before and after laundering benchmarks are compared.\n\nAATCC Test Method 150, Dimensional Change of Fabrics After Home Laundering\nScope: Determines the dimensional changes of garments when subjected to home laundering procedures used by consumers.\n\nShrinkage has great importance because any expansion or shrinkage can deform the product which could be a serious concern for end-user and brand can lose its reputation.\nThere are various procedures to minimise the residual shrinkage of the fabrics,it begins with right selection of yarn count or denier to achieve particular g.s.m(Grams per square meters),Right selection of tightness factor of loops (which is called loop length then chemical procedures like mercerising of cotton,Resin of cotton in case of woven materials,Pre- heat-setting and post heat setting of synthetic and blended fabrics( Heat setting is a thermal process taking place mostly in either a steam atmosphere or a dry heat environment. The effect of the process gives fibers, yarns or fabric dimensional stability). \nFinishing on machines like sanphorizing Mechanical shrinking (sometimes referred to as sanforizing), whereby the fabric is forced to shrink width and/or lengthwise, creates a fabric in which any residual tendency to shrink after subsequent laundering is minimal compacting machines. For wool garments, shrinkage is due to scales on the fibers which heat, water and agitation cause to stick together. Other fabrics are stretched by mechanical forces during production, and can shrink slightly when heated (though to a lesser degree than wool). Some clothes are shrunk in the factory to avoid this problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "2026779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2026779", "title": "Sura Ionospheric Heating Facility", "text": "Sura Ionospheric Heating Facility\n\nThe Sura Ionospheric Heating Facility, located near the small town of Vasilsursk about 100 km eastward from Nizhniy Novgorod in Russia, is a laboratory for ionosphere research .\nSura is capable of radiating about 190 MW, effective radiated power (ERP) on short waves . This facility is operated by the radiophysical research institute NIRFI in Nizhny Novgorod . The Sura facility was commissioned in 1981 . Using this facility, Russian researchers studied the behaviour of the ionosphere and the effect of generation of low-frequency emission on modulation of ionosphere current. In the beginning, the Soviet Defense Department mostly footed the bill. The American HAARP ionospheric heater, whose operation began in 1993, is similar to the Sura facility.\n\nThe frequency range of the heating facility is from 4.5 to 9.3 MHz. \nThe facility consists of three 250 kW broadcasting transmitters and a 144 crossed dipole antenna-array with dimensions of 300 m x 300 m.\n\nAt the middle of the operating frequency range (4.5 – 9.3 MHz) a maximum zenith gain of about 260 (~24 dB) is reached, the ERP of the facility is 190 MW (~83 dbW).\n\n"}
{"id": "295579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295579", "title": "Taklamakan Desert", "text": "Taklamakan Desert\n\nThe Taklamakan Desert (, Xiao'erjing: ; ; ), also spelled \"Taklimakan\" and \"Teklimakan\", is a desert in southwest Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, northwest China. It is bounded by the Kunlun Mountains to the south, the Pamir Mountains and Tian Shan (ancient Mount Imeon) to the west and north, and the Gobi Desert to the east.\n\nThe name may be an Uyghur borrowing of the Persian , \"to leave alone/out/behind, relinquish, abandon\" + , \"place\". Some sources claimed it means \"Place of No Return\", more commonly interpreted as \"once you get in, you'll never get out\" or similar. Another plausible explanation suggests it is derived from Turki \"taqlar makan\", describing \"the place of ruins\".\n\nThe Taklamakan Desert has an area of , making it slightly smaller than Germany, and includes the Tarim Basin, which is long and wide. It is crossed at its northern and at its southern edge by two branches of the Silk Road as travellers sought to avoid the arid wasteland.\nIt is the world's second largest shifting sand desert with about 85% made up of shifting sand dunes ranking 16th in size in a ranking of the world's largest deserts.\n\nSome geographers and ecologists prefer to regard the Taklamakan Desert as separate and independent from the Gobi Desert region to its east. \n\nThe People's Republic of China has constructed two cross-desert highways. The Tarim Desert Highway links the cities of Hotan (on the southern edge) and Luntai (on the northern edge), and the Bayingol to Ruoqiang road crosses the desert to the east. In recent years, the desert has expanded in some areas, its sands enveloping farms and villages as a result of desertification.\n\nThe Golmud-Korla Railway (presently, under construction; expected completion time, 2019) will cross the Taklamakan as well.\n\nBecause it lies in the rain shadow of the Himalayas, Taklamakan is a paradigmatic cold desert climate. Given its relative proximity with the cold to frigid air masses in Siberia, extreme temperatures are recorded in wintertime, sometimes well below , while in summer they can rise up to . During the 2008 Chinese winter storms episode, the Taklamakan was reported to be covered, for the first time in its history, entirely with a thin layer of snow reaching , with a temperature of in some observatories.\n\nIts extreme inland position, virtually in the very heartland of Asia and thousands of kilometres from any open body of water, accounts for the somewhat wide diurnal temperature variation.\n\nThe Taklamakan Desert has very little water, therefore it is hazardous to cross. Merchant caravans on the Silk Road would stop for relief at the thriving oasis towns. It was in close proximity to many of the ancient civilizations — to the Northwest is the Amu Darya basin, to the southwest the Afghanistan mountain passes lead to Iran and India, to the east is China, and even to the north ancient towns such as Almaty can be found.\n\nThe key oasis towns, watered by rainfall from the mountains, were Kashgar, Marin, Niya, Yarkand, and Khotan (Hetian) to the south, Kuqa and Turpan in the north, and Loulan and Dunhuang in the east. Now, many, such as Miran and Gaochang, are ruined cities in sparsely inhabited areas in the Xinjiang Autonomous Region of the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe archaeological treasures found in its sand-buried ruins point to Tocharian, early Hellenistic, Indian, and Buddhist influences. Its treasures and dangers have been vividly described by Aurel Stein, Sven Hedin, Albert von Le Coq, and Paul Pelliot.\nMummies, some 4000 years old, have been found in the region.\n\nLater, the Taklamakan was inhabited by Turkic peoples. Starting with the Han Dynasty, the Chinese sporadically extended their control to the oasis cities of the Taklamakan Desert in order to control the important silk route trade across Central Asia. Periods of Chinese rule were interspersed with rule by Turkic, Mongol and Tibetan peoples. The present population consists largely of Turkic Uyghur people and ethnic Han people.\n\nThis desert was explored by several scientists such as Xuanzang, a monk in the 7th century and by the archaeologist Aurel Stein in the 20th century.\n\nAtmospheric studies have shown that dust originating from the Taklamakan is blown over the Pacific, where it contributes to cloud formation over the Western United States. Studies have shown that a specific class of mineral found in the dust, known as K-feldspar, triggers ice formation particularly well. K-feldspar is particularly susceptible to corrosion by acidic atmospheric pollution such as nitrates and phosphates. Exposure to these constituents reduces the ability of the dust to trigger water droplet formation. Further, the traveling dust redistributes minerals from the Taklamakan to the western U.S.A. via rainfall.\n\nThe desert is the main setting for Chinese film series \"Painted Skin\" and \"\". The Chinese TV series \"Candle in the Tomb\" is mostly spent in this desert as they are searching for the ancient city of Jinjue (see Niya (Tarim Basin).)\n\nThe issue #39 'Soft Places' of Neil Gaiman's \"The Sandman\" takes place in the desert, when Marco Polo gets lost in the desert.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45358785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45358785", "title": "Ukureyskaya Formation", "text": "Ukureyskaya Formation\n\nThe Ukureyskaya Formation is a geological formation made up of Middle Jurassic and Late Jurassic layers. It covers large areas around Kulinda. The formation is where the type specimen fossils of \"Kulindadromeus zabaikalicus\" were found, alongside a single tooth from a medium-sized theropod of unknown affiliations and other indeterminate ornithschians.\n"}
