{"id": "32474094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32474094", "title": "2011 Stepping Hill Hospital poisoning incident", "text": "2011 Stepping Hill Hospital poisoning incident\n\nThe 2011 Stepping Hill Hospital poisoning incident refers to a series of deaths at the Stepping Hill Hospital in Stockport, Greater Manchester, which began in July 2011.\n\nThey used to specialise in Tonsil removal. The investigation was sparked by a nurse on a ward at the hospital, who noticed that several patients on the ward had unexpected low blood sugar levels. An investigation suggested that a number of saline ampoules and saline drips had been contaminated with insulin, and this was believed to have lowered the blood sugar levels in the patients.\n\nInsulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas to allow the uptake of glucose in the blood to be used by the muscles and cells of the body for energy. The brain requires a constant supply of glucose in order to be able to function properly. As insulin lowers the level of glucose in the blood, if too much of it is present in the circulation this can quickly lead to lowered blood glucose levels, commonly known as low blood sugar (or hypoglycemia); which as a consequence negatively affects the functioning of the brain and central nervous system. This can be rapidly and irreversibly fatal if not recognised and treated early enough. At Stepping Hill it was suspected that, due to the increased levels of insulin in the patients' bloodstreams, they quickly became hypoglycemic and three confirmed fatalities occurred. A number of other patients are also believed by police to have been poisoned in this way, though most did not suffer fatal consequences. Two further deaths in the A1 and A3 wards were added to the investigation on 21 July.\n\nThree patients' deaths – two elderly males, George Keep, 84 and Arnold Lancaster, 71, and a female – Tracey Arden, 44 – were attributed to the alleged contamination, however it was also reported that each of the patients also had underlying medical conditions that made them weaker. On 21 July 2011, it was confirmed that two more patients' deaths were being linked to the investigation, bringing the death count to five. Greater Manchester Police (GMP) announced that the inquiry into how saline solutions had been contaminated with insulin would form the basis of a murder inquiry. During the investigation, 60 detectives were involved in determining how and when the saline solutions were contaminated. Meanwhile, a number of armed police guards were stationed at the hospital, and staff were made to work in pairs when administering medication to patients.\n\nOn 20 July 2011, GMP confirmed that they had arrested a 27-year-old female nurse – Rebecca Jane Leighton, who worked at the hospital on ward A1 and A3 – in connection with the murder inquiry. The Nursing and Midwifery Council opened a fitness to practice investigation after the arrest of Leighton. On 22 July, Leighton appeared at Manchester City Magistrates' court. She was charged with three counts of criminal damage with intent to endanger life, three counts of criminal damage being reckless as to whether life was being endangered, and one charge of theft. She was remanded in custody to next appear at Manchester Crown Court on 1 August.\n\nCharges against Leighton were dropped on 2 September 2011. The Crown Prosecution Service said it was \"no longer appropriate\" to continue the case against her. Evidence that was expected to appear in support of the charges had not become available. Nazir Afzal, Chief Crown Prosecutor for the North West, said Leighton had been charged on the basis there was \"reasonable suspicion she had committed the offences and there were reasonable grounds for believing the continuing investigation would provide further evidence within a reasonable amount of time\".\n\nOn 2 December 2011, it was reported that Leighton had been dismissed from her job as a nurse at Stepping Hill Hospital. She had been suspended ever since the allegations were first made nearly five months earlier. An appeal hearing, presided over by Stockport NHS Foundation Trust, against her sacking was held on Thursday 2 February 2012 but the appeal was dismissed. The Trust said it was unable to comment because of confidentiality issues and there was no response from Leighton's lawyers. It was also revealed on that day that police were now investigating a total of 19 deaths at the hospital as possible victims of saline poisoning.\n\nOn 5 January 2012 it was revealed that a death that had taken place on 31 December 2011 – i.e. after Leighton had been dismissed – was now being linked to the investigation. 46-year-old Victorino Chua, a nurse at the hospital, had been arrested amid claims that forms had been altered and a patient given extra medication. He was later also questioned on the earlier deaths. He was not charged with any offence and was placed on police bail. By July 2012, the Greater Manchester Police stated that they were making good progress in the investigation, that twenty-two people had been poisoned and that seven deaths had occurred.\n\nOn 29 March 2014 Victorino Chua was charged with the murders of Tracey Arden, Arnold Lancaster and Alfred Derek Weaver, and 31 other offences including GBH and attempted poisoning. He was remanded in custody to appear at Manchester Magistrates' Court later. On 18 May 2015 Victorino Chua was convicted on two counts of murder. He was found not guilty of murdering Arnold Lancaster, who had been suffering from terminal cancer, but was convicted of attempting to cause him and twenty other patients grievous bodily harm with intent by poisoning. He was also found guilty of eight offences of unlawfully administering or causing to be taken by another person any poison or destructive or noxious thing with intent to injure, aggrieve or annoy, or attempting to do so, after deliberately altering prescriptions. The jury at Manchester Crown Court had deliberated for eleven days. Chua received 25 life sentences and was told that he would spend a minimum of 35 years in jail before he would be eligible for parole.\n\n"}
{"id": "38945343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38945343", "title": "Abdul Majeed Abdul Bari", "text": "Abdul Majeed Abdul Bari\n\nDr. Abdul Majeed Abdul Bari was the Minister of Islamic Affairs of the Maldives from 2008 to 2012.\n"}
{"id": "36338315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36338315", "title": "Adelaide Ames", "text": "Adelaide Ames\n\nAdelaide Ames (June 3, 1900 – June 26, 1932) was an American astronomer and research assistant at Harvard University. She contributed to the study of galaxies with her co-authorship of \"A Survey of the External Galaxies Brighter Than the Thirteenth Magnitude\", which was later known as the Shapley-Ames catalog. Ames was a member of the American Astronomical Society. She was a contemporary of Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin and her closest friend at the observatory.\n\nAmes died in a boating accident in 1932, the same year the Shapley-Ames catalog was published. She was interred at the Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nAmes attended Vassar College until 1922 and then studied at Radcliffe College, where there was a recently created graduate program in astronomy. Ames graduated in 1924 as the first woman with an M.A in Astronomy at Radcliffe. Originally she had planned to become a journalist, but she found no work in the area and instead accepted a job as a research assistant at the Harvard College Observatory (HCO), a position she held until her death. The focus of her work was the cataloging of galaxies in the constellations Coma and Virgo. In 1931, the finished catalog included nearly 2800 objects. This work earned her membership in the IAU Commission 28 on Nebulae and Star Clusters.\n\nOn June 26, 1932, while vacationing on Squam Lake, Ames was taking a canoe tour with a friend on the lake when it capsized. She was presumed to have drowned and her body was found after a ten-day search on July 5, 1932. She died at the age of 32.\n\nIn 1921, Harlow Shapley became director of HCO, and soon afterward hired Ames as an assistant. Ames was Shapley's first graduate student and Ames went on to supervise her own graduate students. Her early work at Harvard focused on the identification of NGC/IC objects. In 1926, she and Shapley published several articles on the shapes, colors, and diameters of 103 NGC galaxies. In 1930, she published \"A catalog of 2778 nebulae including the Coma-Virgo group\", which identified 214 NGC and 342 IC objects in the area of the Virgo cluster.\n\nDuring her tenure at the Harvard College Observatory, she worked together with Harlow Shapley on the Shapley-Ames catalog, which lists galaxies beyond the 13th magnitude. From their observations of approximately 1250 galaxies, they found evidence of clustering near the north pole of the Milky Way that differs from the south pole. These results were significant because their finding of \"general unevenness in distribution\" of galaxies deviated from the assumption of isotropy.\n\nAdelaide Ames's father was T.L. Ames, who served as a Colonel in the U.S. Army.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31860255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31860255", "title": "Al-Abbas ibn al-Ma'mun", "text": "Al-Abbas ibn al-Ma'mun\n\nAl-Abbas ibn al-Ma'mun (died 838 CE) was an Abbasid prince and general, the son of the Abbasid Caliph al-Ma'mun (). A distinguished military leader in the Arab–Byzantine wars, he was passed over in the succession in favour of his uncle al-Mu'tasim (). In 838, he was arrested for his involvement in a failed conspiracy against al-Mu'tasim, and died in prison.\n\nAbbas was the son of al-Ma'mun by the concubine Sundus. In 828–829, al-Ma'mun appointed him as governor of Al-Jazira (Upper Mesopotamia) and the Mesopotamian military frontier zone (\"thughur\") with the Byzantine Empire. Abbas distinguished himself in the expeditions against Byzantium for his bravery. In the summer of 830, Abbas led an expedition against the Khurramite rebels of Babak Khorramdin in Azerbaijan. The campaign was accompanied by a contingent of Byzantine captives under the renegade general Manuel the Armenian, who, given Abbas's relative inexperience, may have been the actual commander of the army.. Abbas's force met with some success against the Khurramites, and began its return. As it passed near the Byzantine frontier at Hadath, Manuel, having earned the confidence of Abbas and his Arab officers, persuaded Abbas to cross the nearby passes and raid Byzantine territory. Once there, Manuel took advantage of a hunt to disarm Abbas and his entourage and defect back to the Empire, along with some of the other Byzantine captives. Abbas with his men were left behind and after rejoining their army, they retreated back over the mountains into the Caliphate.\nIn the next year, Abbas accompanied his father and uncle in a major expedition into Byzantine Anatolia. After the Arab army crossed the Cilician Gates and took Heraclea Cybistra in early July, it divided in three corps, headed by the Caliph, al-Mu'tasim and Abbas, and proceeded to raid across Cappadocia. The other two forces achieved little of consequence in the already repeatedly devastated area, but Abbas met with more success: he forced the town of Tyana to capitulate and razed it, and met and defeated the Byzantine army under the emperor Theophilos () in a minor skirmish. Al-Ma'mun kept up the pressure on Byzantium in 832, with his army capturing the strategically important fortress of Loulon, and in late 832 the Caliph began gathering a huge army and announced that he intended to conquer and colonize Anatolia step by step, and finally subjugate the Empire by capturing Constantinople itself. Consequently, on 25 May 833, Abbas with the advance force marched into Byzantine territory and began creating a military base at the site of Tyana. The site had been fortified and awaited the arrival of the Caliph's army, which in early July crossed into Anatolia. At this juncture al-Ma'mun fell ill and died, although some modern scholars speculate that his death may have been the result of a coup.\n\nOn receiving news of the Caliph's illness, Abbas abandoned his army and sped to his father's encampment, where he joined his uncle al-Mu'tasim at al-Ma'mun's deathbed. As al-Ma'mun's son, and given his prominent role in his father's last campaigns, Abbas was considered a contender for the succession, although it is unclear if he was ever formally appointed heir apparent, as al-Dinawari claims. His main rival was his uncle al-Mu'tasim, who according to the account of al-Tabari was named heir by al-Ma'mun on his deathbed. Whatever the true events, al-Mu'tasim was ascendant, as demonstrated by the fact that he performed the funerary prayer for his brother. Abbas swiftly and publicly swore allegiance to al-Mu'tasim, thereby moving to assuage the troops, many of whom were displeased at Abbas being passed over, and wanting to proclaim him caliph instead.\n\nNevertheless, al-Mu'tasim's hold on the throne was still shaky, and he abandoned Ma'mun's campaign; the new base at Tyana was razed, and the still restive army returned to the Caliphate. Despite his acceptance of his uncle's succession, Abbas was removed from his governorship of the frontier lands, but retained the support of several leading figures in the Abbasid court. He soon became the focus of the factions opposed to al-Mu'tasim, and in particular his increasing reliance on, and favour shown to, his Turkish slave-soldiers (\"ghilman\"). This discontent resulted in an alleged conspiracy led by the general 'Ujayf ibn 'Anbasa which aimed to kill Mu'tasim and place Abbas on the throne. The plot was reportedly uncovered while al-Mu'tasim was campaigning against the Byzantines, with the Caliph informed of it just after the celebrated Sack of Amorium. The resulting investigation, headed by Mu'tasim's trusted Turkish general Ashinas, resulted in the execution of most conspirators. This was broadened into a virtual purge of the army, in which the hitherto dominant Khurasani element was replaced with al-Mu'tasim's favoured Turks. According to al-Tabari, Abbas confessed to knowing of the plot while drunk. He was imprisoned at Manbij by another of al-Mu'tasim's lieutenants, al-Afshin, who executed him by a slow and torturous way: Abbas was fed very salty food, denied water, and exposed to the sun wrapped in a felt blanket, until he died. His four brothers by Sundus were imprisoned by Itakh in his basement, and were never seen again. while Abbas' male descendants were imprisoned and executed by Ashinas.\n\n"}
{"id": "22440767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22440767", "title": "Antti Ahokas", "text": "Antti Ahokas\n\nAntti Juhani Ahokas (born 24 January 1985) is a Finnish professional golfer.\n\nAhokas was born in Lappeenranta. After winning the Finnish Amateur Stroke Play Championship in 2005, he moved to the United States to attend the University of Minnesota, but left after just three months to return to Europe and further his ambitions as a professional.\n\nIn 2006 Ahokas won the Irish Amateur Open Stroke Play Championship beating future world number 1 and major winner Rory McIlroy in a playoff.\n\nHaving turned professional in 2006, Ahokas just failed to come through the European Tour final qualifying school, and joined the second tier Challenge Tour for the 2007 season. In 2008, he won for the first time at the Abierto VISA de la Republica, becoming the first left-hander to take that title. Later in the season he won again at the ECCO Tour Championship, and gained promotion the elite European Tour by ending the season ranked 19th on the money list.\n\n\nAmateur\n\n\n"}
{"id": "444096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=444096", "title": "Bloody Sunday (1905)", "text": "Bloody Sunday (1905)\n\nBloody Sunday or Red Sunday () is the name given to the events of Sunday, in St Petersburg, Russia, when unarmed demonstrators led by Father Georgy Gapon were fired upon by soldiers of the Imperial Guard as they marched towards the Winter Palace to present a petition to Tsar Nicholas II of Russia.\n\nBloody Sunday caused grave consequences for the Tsarist autocracy governing Imperial Russia: the events in St. Petersburg provoked public outrage and a series of massive strikes that spread quickly to the industrial centres of the Russian Empire. The massacre on Bloody Sunday is considered to be the start of the active phase of the Revolution of 1905. In addition to beginning the 1905 Revolution, historians such as Lionel Kochan in his book \"Russia in Revolution 1890–1918\" view the events of Bloody Sunday to be one of the key events which led to the Russian Revolution of 1917.\n\nAfter the emancipation of the serfs in 1861 by Tsar Alexander II of Russia, there emerged a new peasant working class in Russia’s industrializing cities. Prior to emancipation, no working class could be established because serfs working in the cities to supplement their incomes retained their ties to the land and their masters. Although the working conditions in the cities were horrific, they were only employed for short periods of time and returned to their village when their work was complete or it was time to resume agricultural work.\n\nThe emancipation of the serfs resulted in the establishment of a permanent working class in urban areas, which created a strain on traditional Russian society. Peasants “were confronted by unfamiliar social relationships, a frustrating regime of factory discipline, and the distressing conditions of urban life.” This new group of peasant workers made up the majority of workers in urban areas. Generally unskilled, these peasants received low wages, were employed in unsafe working environments, and worked up to fifteen hours a day. Although some workers still had a paternalistic relationship with their employer, factory employers were more present and active than the noble landowners that previously had ownership of the serfs. Under serfdom, peasants had little, if any, contact with their landowner. In the new urban setting, however, factory employers often used their absolute authority in abusive and arbitrary manners. Their abuse of power, made evident by the long working hours, low wages, and lack of safety precautions, led to strikes in Russia.\n\n“The Russian term for strike, \"stachka\", was derived from an old colloquial term, \"stakat’sia\"- to conspire for a criminal act.” As such, Russian laws viewed strikes as criminal acts of conspiracy and potential catalysts for rebellion. The governmental response to strikes, however, supported the efforts of the workers and promoted strikes as an effective tool that could be used by the workers to help improve their working conditions. Tsarist authorities usually intervened with harsh punishment, especially for the leaders and spokesmen of the strike, but often the complaints of the strikers were reviewed and seen as justified and the employers were required to correct the abuses about which the strikers protested.\n\nThese corrections did not address a grossly unbalanced system that clearly favoured the employers. This caused the continuation of strikes and the first major industrial strike in Russia, which occurred in the year 1870 in St. Petersburg. This new phenomenon was a catalyst to many more strikes in Russia, which increased until they reached a peak between 1884 and 1885 when 4,000 workers went on strike at Morozov's cotton mill. This large strike prompted officials to consider regulations that would restrain the abuses of employers and ensure safety in the workplace. A new law was passed in 1886 that required employers to specify working conditions in their factories in writing. This included the treatment of the workers, the workers' hours, and the safety precautions that were taken by the employer. This new law also created factory inspectors who were charged with preserving industrial peace. Despite these changes, strike activity again reached high proportions during the 1890s, resulting in the restriction of the workday to eleven and a half hours in 1897.\n\nA leading role in these events was played by a priest Father Georgy Gapon. Fr. Gapon was a charismatic speaker and effective organiser, who took an interest in the working and lower classes of the Russian cities.\n\nThe \"Assembly of the Russian Factory and Mill Workers of the City of St. Petersburg\", otherwise known as “the Assembly”, had been headed by Fr. Gapon since 1903. The Assembly was patronized by the Department of the Police and the St. Petersburg Okhrana (secret police); during 1904 the membership of the association had grown rapidly, although more radical groups saw it as being a \"police union\" – under government influence. The Assembly's objectives were to defend workers' rights and to elevate their moral and religious status. In the words of Fr. Gapon, this organization served as:\n\nThe Assembly served as a type of union for the workers of St. Petersburg. Depicted as strictly conservative in its support of the autocracy, the Assembly was a means of preventing revolutionary influences and appeasing the workers by striving for better conditions, hours, and pay. The Assembly would act as one of the catalysts for what would later be known as Bloody Sunday.\n\nIn December 1904, four workers at the Putilov Ironworks in St Petersburg were fired because of their membership of the Assembly, although the plant manager asserted that they were fired for unrelated reasons. Virtually the entire workforce of the Putilov Ironworks went on strike when the plant manager refused to accede to their requests that the workers be rehired. Sympathy strikes in other parts of the city raised the number of strikers up to 150,000 workers in 382 factories. By , the city had no electricity and no newspapers whatsoever and all public areas were declared closed.\n\nThe decision to prepare and present a petition was made in the course of discussions during the evening of , at the headquarters of Father Gapon's movement—the \"Gapon Hall\" on the Shlisselburg Trakt in Saint Petersburg. The petition, as drafted in respectful terms by Gapon himself, made clear the problems and opinions of the workers and called for improved working conditions, fairer wages, and a reduction in the working day to eight hours. Other demands included an end to the Russo-Japanese War and the introduction of universal suffrage. The idea of a petition resonated with the traditionally minded working masses. From the 15th to the early 18th centuries individual or collective petitions were an established means of bringing grievances to the attention of the Tsar's administration. They could be submitted to the Petitions Prikaz (office) in Moscow, or directly to the Tsar or his courtiers when the tsar was making an appearance outside the palace.\n\nThe march on the Winter Palace was not a revolutionary or rebellious act. Political groups, such as the Bolsheviks, Mensheviks, and the Social Revolutionaries disapproved of the procession due to its lack of political demands. Fr. Gapon even encouraged his followers to tear up leaflets that supported revolutionary aims. The majority of Russian workers retained their traditional conservative values of Orthodoxy, faith in the autocracy, and indifference to political life. The workers of St. Petersburg wished to receive fair treatment and better working conditions; they decided, therefore, to petition the tsar in hopes he would act on it. In their eyes, the tsar was their representative who would help them if he was made aware of their situation. God appointed the tsar, therefore the tsar had an obligation to protect the people and do what was best for them. Their petition was written in subservient terms and ended with a reminder to the tsar of his obligation to the people of Russia and their resolve to do what it took to ensure their pleas were met. It concluded: \"And if Thou dost not so order and dost not respond to our pleas we will die here in this square before Thy palace\". Gapon, who had an ambiguous relationship with the Tsarist authorities, sent a copy of the petition to the Minister of the Interior together with a notification of his intention to lead a procession of members of his workers' movement to the Winter Palace on the following Sunday.\n\nTroops had been deployed around the Winter Palace and at other key points. Despite the urging of various members of the imperial family to stay in St. Petersburg, the Tsar left on Saturday for Tsarskoye Selo. A cabinet meeting, held without any particular sense of urgency that same evening, concluded that the police would publicize his absence and that the workers would accordingly probably abandon their plans for a march.\n\nIn the pre-dawn winter darkness of the morning of Sunday, , striking workers and their families began to gather at six points in the industrial outskirts of St Petersburg. Holding religious icons and singing hymns and patriotic songs (particularly \"God Save the Tsar!\"), a crowd of \"more than 3,000\" proceeded without police interference towards the Winter Palace, the Tsar's official residence. The crowd, whose mood was quiet, did not know that the Tsar was not in residence. Insofar as there was firm planning, the intention was for the various columns of marchers to converge in front of the palace at about 2 pm. Estimates of the total numbers involved range wildly from police figures of 3,000 to organizers' claims of 50,000. Initially, it was intended that women, children and elderly workers should lead, to emphasize the united nature of the demonstration. Vera Karelina, who was one of Gapon's inner circle, had encouraged women to take part and she expected that there would be casualties. On reflection, younger men moved to the front to make up the leading ranks.\n\nA report had been made to the Tsar at Tsarskoe Selo on Saturday night on the measures being taken to contain the marchers. Substantial military forces were deployed in and around the environs of the Winter Palace. These comprised units of the Imperial Guard, who provided the permanent garrison of Saint Peterburg and Cossacks, plus infantry regiments brought in by rail in the early morning of 9 January from Revel and Pskov. The troops, who now numbered about 10,000, had been ordered to halt the columns of marchers before they reached the palace square but the reaction of government forces was inconsistent and confused. Individual policemen saluted the religious banners and portraits of the Tsar carried by the crowd or joined the procession. Army officers variously told the marchers that they could proceed in smaller groups, called on them to disperse or ordered their troops to fire into the marchers without warning. When the crowds continued to press forward, Cossacks and regular cavalry made charges using their sabres or trampling the people.\n\nThe first instance of shooting occurred between 10 and 11 am. There was no single encounter directly before the Winter Palace, as often portrayed, but rather a series of separate collisions at the bridges or other entry points to the central city. The column led by Gapon was fired upon near the Narva Gate. Around forty people were killed or wounded there, although Gapon himself was not injured.\nAs late as 2 pm large family groups were promenading on the Nevsky Prospekt as was customary on Sunday afternoons, mostly unaware of the extent of the violence elsewhere in the city. Amongst them were parties of workers still making their way to the Winter Palace as originally intended by Gapon. A detachment of the Preobrazhensky Guards previously stationed in the Palace Square where about 2,300 soldiers were being held in reserve, now made its way onto the Nevsky and formed two ranks opposite the Alexander Gardens. Following a single shouted warning a bugle sounded and four volleys were fired into the panicked crowd, many of whom had not been participants in the organized marches.\n\nThe total number killed in the day's clashes is uncertain but the Tsar's officials recorded 96 dead and 333 injured; anti-government sources claimed more than 4,000 dead; moderate estimates still average around 1,000 killed or wounded, both from shots and trampled during the panic. Another source noted that the official estimate was 132 people killed. Leon Trotsky did not put forward a precise figure but claimed that hundreds were killed and that many casualties were secretly buried by the authorities. \n\nNicholas II described the day as \"painful and sad\". As reports spread across the city, disorder and looting broke out. Gapon's Assembly was closed down that day, and Gapon quickly left Russia.\n\nAlthough the Tsar was not at the Winter Palace and did not give the order for the troops to fire, he was widely blamed for the inefficiency and callousness with which the crisis had been handled. While it was unrealistic for the marchers to expect Nicholas to ride out into the Palace Square to meet them, his absence from the city, against at least some advice, reflects a lack of imagination and perception that he was to show on other occasions. The killing of people, many of whom had seen the Tsar as their \"Little Father\", resulted in a surge of bitterness towards Nicholas and his autocratic rule. A widely quoted reaction was \"we no longer have a Tsar\".\n\nThis event was seen by the British ambassador as inflaming revolutionary activities in Russia and contributing to the Revolution of 1905. Media commentary in Britain and the United States was overwhelmingly negative towards the actions of an already unpopular regime. The writer Leo Tolstoy was emotionally impacted by the event, reflecting the revulsion of liberal, socialist and intellectual opinion within Russia itself.\n\nThe immediate consequence of Bloody Sunday was a strike movement that spread throughout the country. Strikes began to erupt outside of St. Petersburg in places such as Moscow, Riga, Warsaw, Vilna, Kovno, Tiflis, Baku, Batum, and the Baltic region. In all, about 414,000 people participated in the work stoppage during January 1905. Tsar Nicholas II attempted to appease the people with a Duma; however, the autocracy eventually resorted to brute force near the end of 1905 in order to curtail the burgeoning strike movement that continued to spread. It is estimated that between October 1905 and April 1906, 15,000 peasants and workers were hanged or shot, 20,000 injured, and 45,000 sent into exile.\n\nPerhaps the most significant effect of Bloody Sunday was the drastic change in the attitude of the Russian peasants and workers. Previously the tsar had been seen as the champion of the people: in dire situations, the masses would appeal to the tsar, traditionally through a petition, and the tsar would respond to his people promising to set things right. The lower classes placed their faith in the tsar. Any problems that the lower classes faced were associated with the boyars of Russia; however, after Bloody Sunday the tsar was no longer distinguished from the bureaucrats and was held personally responsible for the tragedy that occurred. The social contract between the tsar and the people was broken, which delegitimized the position of the tsar and his divine right to rule. Although Bloody Sunday was not initiated as a revolutionary or rebellious movement, the repercussions of the government’s reaction laid the foundations for revolution by bringing into question autocracy and the legitimacy of the tsar.\n\nDmitri Shostakovich's 11th Symphony, subtitled \"The Year 1905\", is a programmatic work centered on Bloody Sunday. The second movement, entitled \"The Ninth of January\", is a forceful depiction of the massacre. The sixth of Shostakovich's \"Ten Poems on Texts by Revolutionary Poets\" is also called \"The Ninth of January\". Shostakovich's father and uncle were both presents at the march that day, a year before the composer's birth. Maxim Gorky's novel \"The Life of a Useless Man\" (1908) portrays the effects of Bloody Sunday on the Russian working class and operations of the spies employed by the Tsar.\n"}
{"id": "2771093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2771093", "title": "Charles, Duke of Berry (1686–1714)", "text": "Charles, Duke of Berry (1686–1714)\n\nCharles of France, Duke of Berry, (31 July 1686 – 5 May 1714) was a grandson of Louis XIV of France. Although he was only a grandson of Louis XIV, Berry held the rank of \"fils de France\" (\"son of France\"), rather than \"petit-fils de France\" (\"grandson of France\"), as the son of the Dauphin, heir apparent to the throne. The Duke of Berry was for seven years heir presumptive to the throne of Spain (1700–1707), till his brother Philip V fathered a son in 1707.\n\nBorn at the Palace of Versailles, Charles was the youngest son of Louis, Dauphin of France, \"\"le Grand Dauphin\",\" and of Maria Anna Victoria of Bavaria. He was raised under the supervision of the royal governess Louise de Prie.\n\nOne of three children, he was the uncle of the future Louis XV, who was the son of his brother, Louis, Duke of Burgundy. Charles' other brother, Philip, Duke of Anjou, was the future Philip V of Spain. Charles was styled Duke of Berry (\"duc de Berry\") at his birth, but never actually possessed that Duchy. In 1710, he was invested with his apanage, consisting in the duchies of Alençon, of Angoulême, county of Ponthieu and other minor fiefs. Ponthieu was exchanged some month later for other domains. By a special brevet, his grandfather permitted him to keep the title \"Duke of Berry\", which he held until his death..\n\nAs the third son of the Dauphin, Berry was not expected to inherit the throne; and at his father's death in 1711, his oldest brother Louis, Duke of Burgundy became Dauphin.\n\nHowever, in agreement with the testament of Charles II, king of Spain, the Duke of Berry was heir presumptive to the Spanish throne from November 1700 until 25 August 1707 (birth of his nephew Louis, Prince of Asturias). He renounced all his rights to the Spanish succession on 24 November 1712, in application of the treaties of Utrecht.\n\nAs a result of the prestige of his birth, cadet branches of the royal family saw in him a splendid match for their daughters. One of his aunts, Louise-Françoise de Bourbon, \"princesse de Condé\", a legitimised daughter of Louis XIV and Madame de Montespan, proposed her beautiful daughter, Louise Élisabeth de Bourbon, but the marriage proposal came to naught, much to the annoyance of the House of Bourbon-Condé.\n\nThe Princess de Condé's sister, Françoise-Marie de Bourbon, \"duchesse d'Orléans\", then suggested a union with her eldest daughter, Marie Louise Élisabeth d'Orléans. The marriage with Marie Louise Élisabeth, daughter of Philippe d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans, the future Regent of France, took place on 6 July 1710. A miscarriage ended the first pregnancy of Marie Louise Élisabeth. Two years later, she gave birth to a premature boy who lived just a few weeks. She was again pregnant at the time of her husband's death but miscarried a girl one month, later. The Duchess was notoriously unfaithful to her husband and even thought of running away with her lover La Haye.\n\nElizabeth Charlotte, Duchess Dowager of Orléans, (known as \"Madame Palatine\" or \"La Palatine\"), and the grandmother of Berry's wife, nicknamed him \"Berry Bon Cœur\" (\"Berry Good Heart\") and later wrote on the marriage between him and her granddaughter:\nAt first he was passionately fond of his wife; but at the end of three months he fell in love with a little, ugly, \"femme de chambre\". The Duchess, who had sufficient penetration, was not slow in discovering this, and told her husband immediately that, if he continued to live upon good terms with her, as he had done at first, she would say nothing about it, and act as if she were not acquainted with it; but if he behaved ill, she would tell the whole affair to the King, and have the \"femme de chambre\" sent away, so that he should never hear of her again. By this threat she held the Duke, who was a very simple man, so completely in check, that he lived very well with her up to his death, leaving her to do as she pleased, and dying himself as fond as ever of the \"femme de chambre\". A year before his death he had her married, but on the condition that the husband should not exercise his marital rights. He left her pregnant as well as his wife, both of whom lay-in after his decease. Madame de Berry, who was not jealous, retained this woman, and took care of her and her child. One month later, the Duchess gave birth prematurely to a girl who died the next day. During the regency of her father, the young widow became known as a Messalina, ill-reputed for the debauched life she led in her Luxembourg Palace. Her health rapidly undermined by gluttony, alcoholism and a series of clandestine pregnancies, Madame de Berry died on 21 July 1719. The autopsy revealed that the princess was again with child although she had almost died at the end of March 1719, when giving birth to a still-born child allegedly fathered by her captain of the guards. \nIn 1712, Berry's eldest brother, Louis, Duke of Burgundy, Dauphin of France, and the latter's elder son, Louis, Duke of Brittany died. It was foreseeable that Berry would serve as Regent for his brother's younger son, Louis, Duke of Anjou. But, on 5 May 1714, he died from internal injuries sustained in a hunting accident. His death rendered the details of the Regency less straightforward than before.\n\nThe Duke and the Duchess of Berry had three children, none of whom survived infancy. As Grandchildren of France, they needed a surname. However, since their father was Duke of Berry only by name, their surname was not \"de Berry\" but \"d'Alençon\", taken from his first substantial duchy.\n\n\n\n\nThe Duke of Berry assumed the royal arms (Azure, three fleur-de-lys or) differenced with a bordure engrailed gules, the mark of cadency traditionally associated with the Duchy of Berry since the 14th century (despite the fact that he never actually received that Duchy as an apanage, but the Duchies of Alençon and Angoulême to which other arms were associated) and with the coronet of a Child of France above the shield.\n\n"}
{"id": "6910578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6910578", "title": "Cytoplasmic male sterility", "text": "Cytoplasmic male sterility\n\nCytoplasmic male sterility is total or partial male sterility in plants as the result of specific nuclear and mitochondrial interactions. Male sterility is the failure of plants to produce functional anthers, pollen, or male gametes.\n\nJoseph Gottlieb Kölreuter was the first to document male sterility in plants. He reported anther abortion within species and specific hybrids. \n\nCytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) has now been identified in over 150 plant species. Male sterility is more prevalent than female sterility. This could be because the male sporophyte and gametophyte are less protected from the environment than the ovule and embryo sac, or because male sterility results from natural selection on mitochondrial genes which are maternally inherited and are thus not involved in pollen production. Male-sterile plants can propagate, since they can set seed. Female-sterile plants develop no seeds. \n\nMale sterility can arise spontaneously via mutations in nuclear genes and/or cytoplasmic genes. Male sterility is easy to detect because a large number of pollen grains are produced and can be easily studied. Male sterility can be assayed through staining techniques (carmine, lactophenol or iodine). \nMale sterility can be either cytoplasmic or cytoplasmic–genetic. CMS is caused by the extranuclear genome (mitochondria or chloroplast) and shows maternal inheritance. Manifestation of male sterility in CMS may be controlled either entirely by cytoplasmic factors or by interaction between cytoplasmic and nuclear factors.\n\nCytoplasmic male sterility, as the name indicates, is under extranuclear genetic control (under control of the mitochondrial or plastid genomes). It shows non-Mendelian inheritance\n, with male sterility inherited maternally. In general, there are two types of cytoplasm: N (normal) and aberrant S (sterile) cytoplasms. These types exhibit reciprocal differences.\n\nWhile CMS is controlled by an extranuclear genome, nuclear genes may have the capability to restore fertility. When nuclear restoration of fertility genes (\"Rf\") is available for a CMS system in any crop, it is cytoplasmic–genetic male sterility; the sterility is manifested by the influence of both nuclear (with Mendelian inheritance) and cytoplasmic (maternally inherited) genes. There are also restorers of fertility (\"Rf\") genes that are distinct from genetic male sterility genes. The \"Rf\" genes have no expression of their own unless the sterile cytoplasm is present. \"Rf\" genes are required to restore fertility in S cytoplasm that causes sterility. Thus plants with N cytoplasm are fertile and S cytoplasm with genotype \"Rf\"- leads to fertiles while S cytoplasm with \"rfrf\" produces only male steriles. Another feature of these systems is that \"Rf\" mutations (\"i.e.\", mutations to \"rf\" or no fertility restoration) are frequent, so that N cytoplasm with \"Rfrf\" is best for stable fertility.\n\nCytoplasmic–genetic male sterility systems are widely exploited in crop plants for hybrid breeding due to the convenience of controlling sterility expression by manipulating the gene–cytoplasm combinations in any selected genotype. Incorporation of these systems for male sterility evades the need for emasculation in cross-pollinated species, thus encouraging cross breeding producing only hybrid seeds under natural conditions.\n\nHybrid production requires a female plant in which no viable male gametes are borne. Emasculation is done to prevent a plant from producing pollen so that it serves only as a female parent. Another simple way to establish a female line for hybrid seed production is to identify or create a line that is unable to produce viable pollen. Since this male-sterile line cannot self-pollinate, seed formation is dependent upon pollen from the male line. Cytoplasmic male sterility is used in hybrid seed production. In this case, the sterility is transmitted only through the female and all progeny will be sterile. This is not a problem for crops such as onions or carrots where the commodity harvested from the F1 generation is produced during vegetative growth. These CMS lines must be maintained by repeated crossing to a sister line (known as the maintainer line) that is genetically identical except that it possesses normal cytoplasm and is therefore male-fertile. In cytoplasmic–genetic male sterility restoration of fertility is done using restorer lines carrying nuclear genes. The male-sterile line is maintained by crossing with a maintainer line carrying the same nuclear genome as the MS line but with normal fertile cytoplasm.\n\nCytoplasmic male sterility is an important part of hybrid maize production. The first commercial cytoplasmic male sterile, discovered in Texas, is known as CMS-T. The use of CMS-T, starting in the 1950s, eliminated the need for detasseling. In the early 1970s plants containing CMS-T genetics were susceptible to southern corn leaf blight and suffered from widespread loss of yield. Since then, CMS types C and S are used instead. Unfortunately these types are prone to environmentally induced fertility restoration and must be carefully monitored in the field. Environmentally induced, in contrast to genetic, restoration occurs when certain environmental stimuli signal the plant to bypass sterility restrictions and produce pollen anyway.\n\nGenome sequencing of mitochondrial genomes of crop plants has facilitated the identification of promising candidates for CMS-related mitochondrial rearrangements. The systematic sequencing of new plant species in recent years has also uncovered the existence of several novel RF genes and their encoded proteins. A unified nomenclature for the RF defines protein families across all plant species and facilitates comparative functional genomics. This nomenclature accommodates functional RF genes and pseudogenes, and offers the flexibility needed to incorporate additional RFs as they become available in future.\n\n"}
{"id": "36152709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36152709", "title": "Deathbed phenomena", "text": "Deathbed phenomena\n\nDeathbed phenomena refers to a range of paranormal experiences claimed by people who are dying. There are many examples of deathbed phenomena in both non-fiction and fictional literature, which suggests that these occurrences have been noted by cultures around the world for centuries, although scientific study of them is relatively recent. In scientific literature such experiences have been referred to as death-related sensory experiences (DRSE). Dying patients have reported to staff working in hospices they have experienced comforting visions.\n\nModern scientists consider deathbed phenomena and visions to be hallucinations.\n\nDeathbed visions have been described since ancient times, however the first systematic study was not conducted until the 20th century. They have also been referred to as veridical hallucinations, visions of the dying and predeath visions. The physician William Barrett, author of the book \"Death-Bed Visions\" (1926), collected anecdotes of people who had claimed to have experienced visions of deceased friends and relatives, the sound of music and other deathbed phenomena. Barrett was a Christian spiritualist and believed the visions were evidence for spirit communication.\n\nIn a study conducted between 1959 and 1973 by the parapsychologists Karlis Osis and Erlendur Haraldsson, they reported that 50% of the tens of thousands of individuals they studied in the United States and India had experienced deathbed visions. Osis and Haraldsson and other parapsychologists such as Raymond Moody have interpreted the reports as evidence for an afterlife.\n\nThe neurologist Terence Hines has written that the proponents of the afterlife interpretation grossly underestimate the variability among the reports. Hines also criticized their methodology of collecting the reports:\n\nThe skeptical investigator Joe Nickell has written deathbed visions (DBVs) are based on anecdotal accounts that are unreliable. In not reviewing the entire context of accounts he believed he had discovered contradictions and inconsistencies in various DBVs reported by the paranormal author Carla Wills-Brandon.\n\nResearch within the Hospice & Palliative Care fields have studied the impact of deathbed phenomena on the dying, their families, and palliative staff. In 2009, a questionnaire was distributed to 111 staff in an Irish hospice program asking if they had encountered staff or patients who had experienced DBP. The majority of respondents that they had been informed of a deathbed vision by a patient or the patient's family. They reported that the content of these visions often seemed to be comforting to the patient and their family. Another study found that DBPs are commonly associated with peaceful death and are generally under-reported by patients and families due to fear of embarrassment and disbelief from medical staff.\n\nIn response to this qualitative data, there is a growing movement within the palliative care field that emphasizes \"compassionate understanding and respect from those who provide end of life care\" in regards to DBPs.\n\nAccording to Ronald K. Siegel, noted American psychopharmacologist and researcher, there is a high degree of similarity between deathbed visions and drug-induced hallucinations. Hallucinations caused by drugs frequently contain images of otherworldly beings and deceased friends and relatives. Some scientists who have studied cases of deathbed phenomena have described the visual, auditory, and sensed presences of deceased relatives or angelic beings during the dying process as hallucinations. These hallucinations are theorized to occur due to a number of explanations including but not limited to cerebral hypoxia, confusion, delirium, body systems failures (e.g., renal, hepatic, pulmonary), and a mental reaction to stress.\n\nWhen the body is injured, or if the heart stops, even if only for a short period, the brain is deprived of oxygen. A short period of cerebral hypoxia can result in the impairment of neuronal function. It is theorized that this neuronal impairment accounts for deathbed visions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1306645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1306645", "title": "Edward II (film)", "text": "Edward II (film)\n\nEdward II is a 1991 British historical tragedy film directed by Derek Jarman and starring Steven Waddington, Tilda Swinton and Andrew Tiernan. It is based on the play of the same name by Christopher Marlowe. The plot revolves around Edward II of England's infatuation with Piers Gaveston, which proves to be the downfall of both of them, thanks to the machinations of Roger Mortimer.\n\nThe film is staged in a postmodern style, using a mixture of contemporary and medieval props, sets and clothing. (The date \"1991\" appears on a royal proclamation at one point.) The gay content of the play is also brought to the fore by Jarman, notably by adding a homosexual sex scene and by depicting Edward's army as gay rights protesters.\n\nOnce installed as king, Edward II summons his friend and lover, Piers Gaveston, to his side and showers him with gifts, titles and abiding love. Their relationship is fiery and passionate, but it is the focus of gossip and derision throughout the kingdom. Upon his return, Gaveston takes revenge on the Bishop of Winchester, who had been responsible for his banishment from England during the previous reign, by personally torturing him. Kent, Edward's brother, is the first to protest Gaveston's return. Many others feel the same way, including the Bishop of Winchester and Lord Mortimer, who is in charge of the kingdom's army forces. Nevertheless, Edward defends his lover from his mounting enemies.\n\nA pleasure-seeker, Edward is quite distracted from affairs of state, much to the distress and anger of the court (sombre men and women in business suits). Queen Isabella, Edward's French wife, vainly tries everything to win him back from his lover, but she is mercilessly rejected by her husband. Love-starved, Isabella turns to Gaveston, who inflames Isabella's desire by whispering obscenities in her ear, and then mocks her responsiveness.\n\nThe handsome, hedonistic and opportunistic Gaveston repels everyone except the King. His enemies join forces and threaten Edward with dethronment and exile; Edward is forced to comply with their wishes and sends Gaveston away. The lovers' separation is serenaded by Annie Lennox’s rendition of Cole Porter's \"Ev'ry Time We Say Goodbye\".\n\nThe queen hopes that once Gaveston is away she could reconcile with her husband, but he rejects her once again. In a last effort to regain her husband's affection, she allows Gaveston to return. The king and his lover resume their relationship, but their enemies are ready to strike back.\n\nIsabella and Mortimer, who has become her lover, plan to rule the realm through Edward and Isabella's young son, the future Edward III. When Kent tries to save his brother, he is murdered by Isabella. The nobles are soon plotting to get rid not only of Gaveston but also the king. Mortimer, their leader, is a military man and practising sadomasochist who takes a grim pleasure in personally torturing Gaveston and the lovers' friend Spencer, who he addresses as \"girl boy.\" Their torture takes place while there is a clash between the police and members of the British gay rights organisation Outrage.\n\nAfter Gaveston and Spencer's assassinations, Edward, who has been thrown in a dungeon, is executed by impalement on a red-hot poker. This hideous fate is presented as a nightmare from which the imprisoned king awakens. The executioner, when he does arrive, tosses away his lethal weapon and kisses the man he was sent to kill.\n\nBack in the castle, Mortimer and Isabella enjoy their triumph just briefly. The king's young son, Edward III, who all along has been neglected by both parents and who has witnessed their quarrels, has donned his mother's earrings and lipstick and, while listening to classical music on his Walkman, walks atop a cage that imprisons his mother and Mortimer.\n\n\nThe film received positive reviews from critics. It currently holds a 100% \"Certified Fresh\" score on the review-aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes. \"Rolling Stone\" called it \"a piercing cry from the heart\" and \"The Washington Post\" praised Jarman for \"keeping the story streamlined and potently clear while retaining Marlowe's poetic period language\". \"The Observer\" called it one of \"Derek Jarman's most accomplished films\". The film has been considered a classic example of New Queer Cinema.\n"}
{"id": "2730882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2730882", "title": "Embodied agent", "text": "Embodied agent\n\nIn artificial intelligence, an embodied agent, also sometimes referred to as an interface agent, is an intelligent agent that interacts with the environment through a physical body within that environment. Agents that are represented graphically with a body, for example a human or a cartoon animal, are also called embodied agents, although they have only virtual, not physical, embodiment. A branch of artificial intelligence focuses on empowering such agents to interact autonomously with human beings and the environment. Mobile robots are one example of physically embodied agents; Ananova and Microsoft Agent are examples of graphically embodied agents. Embodied conversational agents are embodied agents (usually with a graphical front-end as opposed to a robotic body) that are capable of engaging in conversation with one another and with humans employing the same verbal and nonverbal means that humans do (such as gesture, facial expression, and so forth).\n\nEmbodied conversational agents are a form of intelligent user interface. Graphically embodied agents aim to unite gesture, facial expression and speech to enable face-to-face communication with users, providing a powerful means of human-computer interaction.\n\nFace-to-face communication allows communication protocols that give a much richer communication channel than other means of communicating. It enables pragmatic communication acts such as conversational turn-taking, facial expression of emotions, information structure and emphasis, visualisation and iconic gestures, and orientation in a three-dimensional environment. This communication takes place through both verbal and non-verbal channels such as gaze, gesture, spoken intonation and body posture.\n\nResearch has found that users prefer a non-verbal visual indication of an embodied system's internal state to a verbal indication, demonstrating the value of additional non-verbal communication channels. As well as this, the face-to-face communication involved in interacting with an embodied agent can be conducted alongside another task without distracting the human participants, instead improving the enjoyment of such an interaction. Furthermore, the use of an embodied presentation agent results in improved recall of the presented information.\n\nEmbodied agents also provide a social dimension to the interaction. Humans willingly ascribe social awareness to computers, and thus interaction with embodied agents follows social conventions, similar to human/human interactions. This social interaction both raises the believability and perceived trustworthiness of agents, and increases the user's engagement with the system. Rickenberg and Reeves found that the presence of an embodied agent on a website increased the level of user trust in that website; as well as this, the presence of the agent increased users' anxiety and affected their performance just as if they were being watched by a real human. Another effect of the social aspect of agents is that presentations given by an embodied agent are perceived as more entertaining and less difficult than the same presentations given without an agent. Research shows that perceived enjoyment, followed by perceived usefulness and ease of use, is the major factor influencing user adoption of embodied agents.\n\nOne example result from a recent study indicates the power of a character when moderating search inquiries. When a character asked people to type search requests into a window, people used, on average, three more words in their requests (averaging about 7 words per inquiry) compared to identical requests made without a character. Character suggest that a conversational style is appropriate, resulting in higher liking for the\ninteraction on the part of the user, and better accuracy for the engine generating the required results.\n\nThis rich style of communication that characterises human conversation makes conversational interaction with embodied conversational agents ideal for many non-traditional interaction tasks. A familiar application of graphically embodied agents is computer games; embodied agents are ideal for this setting because the richer communication style makes interacting with the agent enjoyable. Embodied conversational agents have also been used in virtual training environments, portable personal navigation guides, interactive fiction and storytelling systems, interactive online characters and automated presenters and commentators.\n\nMajor virtual assistants like Siri and Google Assistant do not come with any visual embodied representation, which is believed to limit\nthe sense of human presence by users.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Defense utilizes a software agent called SGT STAR on U.S. Army-run Web sites and Web applications for site navigation, recruitment and propaganda purposes. Sgt. Star is run by the Army Marketing and Research Group, a division operated directly from The Pentagon. Sgt. Star is based upon the \"ActiveSentry\" technology developed by Next IT, a Washington-based information technology services company. Other such bots in the Sgt. Star \"family\" are utilized by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency for intelligence gathering purposes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2151684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2151684", "title": "Frank Francisco", "text": "Frank Francisco\n\nFranklin Thomas Francisco (born September 11, 1979) is a Dominican former professional baseball pitcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Texas Rangers, Toronto Blue Jays, New York Mets and Chicago White Sox.\n\nFrancisco was originally signed as an amateur free agent by the Boston Red Sox. He was traded by the Red Sox to the Chicago White Sox on July 31, , along with Byeong Hak An, in exchange for reliever Bob Howry. On July 1, , the White Sox acquired Carl Everett from the Texas Rangers in exchange for three players to be named later.\n\nOn July 25, 2003, Francisco, Josh Rupe, and minor leaguer Anthony Webster were sent to the Rangers to complete the trade.\n\nFrancisco is best known for participating in a notable incident involving fan violence. On September 13, , he threw a folding chair into the crowd during a game against the Oakland Athletics. The incident initially escalated when Rangers pitcher Doug Brocail confronted a fan. Francisco, who was in the dugout when all this was happening in the bullpen, ran from the dugout to the bullpen and threw a folding chair into the crowd, hitting a female fan in the face, breaking her nose and causing a cut which required stitches. Francisco was arrested and on June 30, 2005, he pleaded no contest to the charges. He was sentenced to anger management classes and a work program. A civil suit brought by the woman who had been struck by the chair was settled on January 12, 2007. Terms of the settlement included an undisclosed payment and a public apology.\n\nFrancisco was suspended for the balance of the 2004 season, and missed the entire season after undergoing Tommy John surgery. Francisco rejoined the club on September 8, .\n\nAfter a poor spring training, Francisco started with the Rangers' Triple-A affiliate, the Oklahoma RedHawks. Following an injury to Éric Gagné in mid-April, Francisco was recalled to the majors. Francisco spent time in as the Rangers' closer after an injury to regular closer C. J. Wilson.\n\nFrancisco again began as the closer. He began with seven scoreless innings, allowing three hits and one walk, while garnering two saves. Through the end of April, Francisco maintained a 0.00 ERA with one walk and nine strikeouts, as well as six saves. He allowed his first run of 2009 on an upper-deck home run by Oakland Athletics' second baseman, Adam Kennedy.\n\nFrancisco and the Rangers agreed to a one-year contract of $3.265 million, thereby avoiding arbitration for the 2010 season.\n\nFrancisco lost the closer's role after blowing saves in his first two chances of the 2010 baseball season.\n\nOn January 25, 2011, Francisco was traded to the Toronto Blue Jays in exchange for catcher Mike Napoli.\n\nOn January 29, Francisco agreed to terms with the Blue Jays on a one-year contract. After a stint on the disabled list, Francisco made his debut as a Blue Jay on April 20. On his first pitch as a Blue Jay, Francisco gave up a home run to the Yankees' Curtis Granderson.\n\nOn December 6, 2011, Francisco agreed to a two-year contract worth $12 million with the New York Mets. Frank Francisco made his Mets debut on April 5, 2012 against the Atlanta Braves, and was named the Mets' closer for the 2012 season.\n\nOn May 13, 2012, Francisco was ejected from a game against the Miami Marlins at Marlins Park after an outburst towards the home plate umpire.\n\nOn June 23, 2012, after a save against the New York Yankees, Francisco was placed on the 15-day disabled list after feeling soreness in his oblique muscle. Before he began a rehabilitation assignment to come off the DL, Francisco aggravated his injury. On August 22, 2012, Francisco showed frustration by hurling a cooler in the dugout after giving up two runs in the top of the ninth inning. On December 18, 2012, Francisco had surgery to remove a bone spur from his right elbow.\n\nOn May 30, 2013, Francisco was moved to the 60-day disabled list to make room on the 40-man roster for shortstop Omar Quintanilla.\n\nOn April 14, 2014, the White Sox signed Francisco to a minor league contract, and assigned him to the Triple-A Charlotte Knights. On April 17, when Frank De Los Santos was transferred from the Birmingham Barons, Francisco was transferred to the Rookie Pioneer League team, the Great Falls Voyagers. On May 10, the White Sox purchased his contract from Charlotte and brought him up to the major leagues. He was designated for assignment on May 22, 2014. He cleared waivers and was assigned outright to Charlotte on May 24. Francisco refused the assignment and became a free agent.\n\nFrancisco signed a minor league deal in late June with Toronto but was released on July 14, 2014, after not appearing in a game.\n"}
{"id": "936481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=936481", "title": "Gantz", "text": "Gantz\n\nThe \"Gantz\" anime adaptation, directed by Ichiro Itano and animated by Gonzo, contains 26 episodes divided into two seasons. A series of two live action movies based on the manga were produced and released in January and April 2011. A CGI anime film, \"\", was released in 2016.\n\nA pair of high school students, Kei Kurono and Masaru Kato, are hit by a subway train in an attempt to save the life of a drunk homeless man who had fallen onto the tracks. Following their deaths, Kurono and Kato find themselves transported to the interior of an unfurnished Tokyo apartment, where they meet Joichiro Nishi, a Gantz veteran, and other clueless participants. The pair soon realizes that they are not allowed to leave the apartment. At one end of the room there is a large black sphere known as \"Gantz\".\n\nAfter some time in the room, the Gantz sphere opens up, revealing a bald naked man with a breathing mask and wires attached to his head, and various weapons for them to use. These include the custom fitting black suits which give them super-human strength, speed, stamina and damage resistance, a controller which acts as a radar and stealth unit, X-gun, X-Shotgun, Y-Gun. Later on the series the Gantz sword, Gantz Bike are made available as well as much more powerful weapons are awarded in the 100 point menu.\n\nWhen the Gantz sphere opens, green text appears on its surface, informing those present that their \"lives have ended and now belong to him\". A picture and brief information is shown of some of the Gantz' targets; Gantz orders them to go and kill them. Except for a single mission, all the targets are aliens living on Earth, which take on a wide variety of forms. During the mission, normal people cannot see the players or the aliens. Gantz transports them to the area of the mission, and they cannot leave or return until all the enemies have been killed, or the time limit has run out. If they survive a successful mission, each individual is awarded points for the aliens they have killed. Once a participant has scored 100 points, a \"100 point menu\" will appear. The menu offers three options:\n\nAfter a mission has been completed, points are tallied up, the participants are allowed to leave and do as they see fit until their next mission, with the exception of talking about Gantz which would lead to their heads exploding. During Kurono and Kato's third mission, all the participants including Kato are killed, however Kato kills the last boss giving Kurono a chance to survive. Kurono survives the third mission bleeding on the floor with his limbs cut apart. After the third mission Kurono starts to change inside adopting a hero, leader complex similar to Kato. As the series continues, Kurono participates with the objective of reviving his deceased friends with the 100 point reward option. A new team of Gantz players is assembled, which Kurono leads, as the most experienced veteran and one of the best fighters. In the Oni mission it is shown that with Kurono's \"will to live\" he becomes the most ferocious Gantz hunter in the team. Through his interactions with the other members of the team and his life or death battles, Kurono gradually grows into a responsible leader. After the Oni mission Kato is revived by Kurono, and soon after Kurono meets his demise against the vampires. As the series goes on, the rules of the missions change; they can now be seen by regular people, the aliens they encounter are increasingly more powerful and dangerous, and they participate in a mission with another Gantz team from Osaka. Kato becomes the center of attention in the manga and his quest to revive Kurono. In a desperate attempt to revive his best friend, Kato fights the one hundred point alien Nurarihyon which obliterates both Osaka and Kurono's team. At the end of the mission, similar to the first time Kato died, he defeats arguably the strongest alien in the series and is laid bleeding on the floor. The series depicts both the missions and Kurono's regular life, as well as the daily lives of other Gantz players (to a lesser extent).\n\nAfter several missions, an old participant named Nishi, who knows more than the others about how Gantz works, shows them a \"catastrophe countdown\" on the Gantz sphere which the other players were unaware of. The countdown reveals that there is one week left until some unknown \"catastrophe.\" At the end of that week, a massive alien force invades the Earth and begins exterminating the human race, while Kurono and his companions try their best to make use of Gantz' advanced technology and weaponry in defense. At the end, Nishi and Kurono are depicted to be similar, both of whom were despised by their family and were sinister; however, unlike Nishi, Kurono has a reason to live. Nishi, in the chapter \"The Great Escape\", is left for dead by Kurono, vowing vengeance against him and crying out for Gantz and mother for help. It is hinted that Nishi died, but his death seems to be unclear. The Japanese also learn of the existence of Gantz teams all around the world. After a long battle, the humans manage to stop the alien invasion and soon after, it is revealed that it was another, highly advanced alien species that provided mankind with the means to defend itself against the invaders, for reasons they refuse to reveal and calls it a whim. In a desperate last effort, the leader of the alien forces, Eeva, challenges the whole human race, promising to exterminate every inhabitant by himself by crashing their mother ship, killing both races if Kurono does not come to their mother ship to fight him. Prior to this announcement Eeva completely dominates all Gantz teams in his vicinity by killing all the hunters, giving the human race a sense of their mortality. The world calls on Kurono, which is broadcast to the entire world, and, with a revived Kato's help, Kurono bets all his chance of winning and saving the human race on himself. Kurono manages to defeat Eeva, thus preventing the alien mothership from destroying Earth. The series ends with Kurono and Kato returning safely to Earth and being greeted as heroes.\n\nHiroya Oku first thought of \"Gantz\"s story when he was in high school. He was inspired by the Jidaigeki program Hissatsu, and the Robert Sheckley novel Time Murderer. However, he did not decide to make \"Gantz\" until after writing the manga \"Zero One\"; \"Zero One\" had a similar setting, but Oku ended the series, noting it was not very entertaining and that it was too expensive to develop.\n\nWhen creating the chapters for the manga, Oku starts with a thumbnail of the pages. He then creates 3D models of the characters and backgrounds on his computer. Once done, Oku prints the characters and backgrounds he made in 3D, adds tone and color to the pages, and finishes with sound effects and dialogue. This style was already used in \"Zero One\", but for that title, there was little work in hand drawing; Oku decided to add more hand drawing to give \"Gantz\" a more realistic tone as well as reduce the budget. However, he still notes that such a method is time-consuming and that he has to work quickly in order to finish the chapters on time.\n\nOku tries to incorporate realism into \"Gantz\" and adds that some of the events occurring in the story are based on his opinions regarding the world. During violent or erotic scenes, Oku makes sure to not make them very long to avoid reducing the series' realism. However, he has mentioned that he does not autocensor and that all the drawings he has ever illustrated have been published in the manga. Some plot twists are meant to go against common events that happen in several manga such as the deaths of the major characters like Kei Kishimoto and Masaru Kato. Before the series started serialization, Oku told his assistants that with Kurono's exception, all the major characters from the series would die.\n\nWritten by Hiroya Oku, the manga chapters have been published in the Japanese magazine \"Weekly Young Jump\" since 2000 and is finished on June 20, 2013; the individual chapters of the series were being released approximately every fifteen days. \"Gantz\" is divided into three main story arcs referred to as \"phases\". After the completion of Phase 1, the author put the series on for a short time to work on Phase 2, which is also known as \"Katastrophe\". Phase 1 consists of the first 237 chapters. On November 22, 2006, the first chapter of Phase 2, chapter 238, was released. Phase 2 consists of chapters 238 through 303. The third and final phase began on October 1, 2009, after a brief hiatus. As of June 20, 2013, the main manga series is finished at 383 chapters long (not counting specials and spin-offs). The individual chapters are collected by Shueisha in \"tankōbon\" format; the first volume was released on December 11, 2000. Currently, 37 volumes have been released by Shueisha.\nPublishing company Dark Horse Comics acquired the licensing rights for the release of English translations of \"Gantz\" on July 1, 2007, during the Anime Expo. The first English volume was released on June 25, 2008. While the first three are being published quarterly, the following volumes will be released on a bimonthly basis. The series is published by Glénat in Spain and by Planet Manga in Germany, Italy and Brazil. It is published by Tonkam in France, by Editorial Vid in Mexico and by Editorial Ivrea in Argentina.\n\nA spin-off, titled \"GANTZ:G\", was serialized in Shueisha's \"Miracle Jump\" magazine from November 2015 to March 2017. The manga was written by Oku and illustrated by Keita Iizuka. Dark Horse have also licensed the spin-off.\n\n\"Gantz/Osaka\" has been published in Japan (showing the stories of the Gantz Osaka team), while \"Gantz/Nishi\" has started publication (showing the life of Nishi), and \"Gantz no Moto\" has Hiroya Oku telling the story on how he got into the manga business and what films influenced him.\n\nAn anime adaptation, produced by Gonzo and directed by Ichiro Itano, aired in Japan on Fuji Television and AT-X. The \"Gantz\" anime is divided into two seasons: \"The First Stage\" and \"The Second Stage\", which is a direct continuation of the first season. The First Stage aired in Japan with several scenes censored due to inappropriate content such as violence or nudity. However, the DVDs from the series contained the scenes uncensored. The Second Stage aired on Japanese network AT-X on August 26, 2004. There are a total of 12 Japanese DVDs, released from August 28, 2004 to June 29, 2005. Additionally, the DVDs were compiled into box sets.\n\nADV Films announced and licensed the series for release in the United States. The series was released in uncut form, retaining the violence and nudity previously censored in Japan for broadcast. Ten DVDs were released by ADV Films from February 8, 2005 to January 17, 2006. They also compiled the series in two DVD box sets in 2006 and in a Perfect Score Collection packaged with a bag in the form of Gantz.\nOn June 25, 2010, anime distributor Funimation Entertainment announced on their online FuniCon 4.0 panel, that they have acquired the rights to the series, along with 3 other former ADV titles after ADV's collapse in 2009.\n\nThe anime follows the plot of the manga up to the end of the temple mission. The last five episodes then branch off into an original story not present in the manga.\n\n\"\", a 3D CGI animated film based on the series, was released in 2016.\n\nOn March 17, 2005, Konami published a game for the PlayStation 2 in Japan named simply as \"Gantz: The Game\". It features the characters and plot up to the Chibi Alien mission. The game mixes third-person shooter and role-playing game (RPG) elements together. The game also includes extras including Free Play mode, a Mini Mode, Magazine Browser mode, Gantz Rankings, a special preview movie and the scenario completion statistic. The game was never released overseas.\n\n\"Gantz/Burst\" and \"Gantz MobileMission\" are cellphone games.\n\nIn July 2009, \"Weekly Young Jump\", the seinen manga magazine, began publishing a novel from the series named \"Gantz/Minus\". It is written by Masatoshi Kusakabe and illustrated by Yusuke Kozaki. The stories take place before the start of the manga, with the focus being on the characters Shion Izumi and Joichiro Nishi, who participate in Gantz's missions. On the cover of each \"Gantz/Minus\" issue, it describes itself as a \"hyper solid action novel\".\n\n\"Gantz/EXA\" is the second \"Gantz\" novel published. It was first serialized in Jump magazine, then printed as a complete collection in January 2011.\n\nOn November 24, 2009, it was announced that two live-action \"Gantz\" films were in production. The films star Kazunari Ninomiya and Kenichi Matsuyama in the roles of Kurono and Kato respectively, and were directed by Shinsuke Sato. The films were released in January and April 2011.\n\nThe first film, titled simply as \"Gantz,\" was released in Japan on January 29, 2011. A special North American screening took place on January 20, 2011, during which the film was simulcast in theaters across 46 states. At the end of this special Los Angeles showing, which took place at the Mann's Chinese 6 theatre, there was a discussion and live interview with both the male leads, as well as a teaser trailer for the second installment, \"Gantz: Perfect Answer\", which is released in Japan on April 23, 2011. \"Gantz\" and \"Gantz 2: Perfect Answer\" were screened in San Diego, California as part of Comic-Con International at the Gaslamp 15 Theater on July 22 & 23.\n\nA companion book titled \"Gantz/Manual\" was published by Shueisha on December 17, 2004. The book features episode summaries, character overviews, and additional background details on the Gantz universe. A revised edition, \"Gantz/Manual Remix\", was published in 2011 as a supplement for Gantz manga and live action movie featuring story act summaries, manga story arc summaries, character overviews, and additional background details on the Gantz universe.\n\nJapanese sales from the \"Gantz\" manga have led several of the volumes to be featured in lists of best seller volumes from Japan. As of November 2010, the \"Gantz\" manga had sold over ten million units in Japan, while during January 2011 the sales increased to over fifteen million volumes. During 2008, Dark Horse Comics informed that the \"Gantz\" sold 175,000 copies in America. Volume 4 of the manga has appeared in \"The New York Times\"s \"Manga Best Seller List\" ranking at 8th. About.com's Deb Aoki listed \"Gantz\" as the best new \"seinen\" of 2008 along with \"Black Lagoon\". On June 24 2013 it had reportedly sold 20 million copies. \n\nDVD sales of \"Gantz\" have been particularly strong. According to Anime News Network, Gantz volume three surpassed DVD sales of its predecessor, volume one, by a significant margin. Owing to strong DVD sales, ADV films has continuously released successive volumes and it was one of the most successful anime franchises of 2005.\n\nThe \"Gantz\" anime has been described as being extremely \"violent\", \"gory\" and \"sadistic\" and yet is also very \"addictive\", even when it was censored during broadcast.\n\n"}
{"id": "6325859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6325859", "title": "George Fleming Davis", "text": "George Fleming Davis\n\nGeorge Fleming Davis (March 23, 1911 – January 6, 1945) was a United States Navy officer and a recipient of America's highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor, for actions during World War II.\n\nGeorge F. Davis was born in Manila, Philippines, on March 23, 1911.\n\nDavis was appointed to the United States Naval Academy from the Naval Reserve in 1930 and graduated in May 1934. Ensign Davis' first duty station was the new heavy cruiser . While in that ship he served as an aircraft gunnery observer with her embarked aviation units. From 1939 to 1941 Lieutenant (Junior Grade) Davis served as an officer of the destroyer and fast minesweeper .\n\nFollowing promotion to the rank of lieutenant in mid-1941 he was assigned to the battleship , which was sunk on December 7, 1941 when Japan's surprise attack on Pearl Harbor opened the Pacific War.\n\nIn January 1942, Lieutenant Davis was transferred to the light cruiser , in which he participated in operations in the Aleutian Islands, the hard fighting over Guadalcanal and the Central Solomons, and the campaign to recover Guam. He was promoted to lieutenant commander and commander while serving in \"Honolulu\", which he left in mid-1944. Following training in advanced surface warfare techniques, he was given command of the destroyer in late November 1944. On 6 January 1945 his ship was covering minesweeping operations in advance of the Lingayen Gulf invasion when she was attacked by four Japanese Kamikazes. Though \"Walke\" shot down two, the third plane struck the ship, enveloping her bridge area in burning gasoline. Though horribly burned, Commander Davis remained on his feet, conned the ship, directed damage control efforts and saw to the destruction of the fourth suicide plane. Only when \"Walke\"'s survival was assured did he relinquish his post to be taken below, where he died a short time later.\n\nFor his conduct, Commander George F. Davis was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor. His body was buried at sea.\n\nCommander George F. Davis' official Medal of Honor citation is as follows:\n\nThe destroyer , 1957–1994, was named in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32480964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32480964", "title": "Ghosts in English-speaking cultures", "text": "Ghosts in English-speaking cultures\n\nThere is widespread belief in ghosts in English-speaking cultures, where ghosts are manifestations of the spirits of the dead. The beliefs may date back to animism or ancestor worship before Christianization. The concept is a perennial theme in the literature and arts of English-speaking countries.\n\nThe English word \"ghost\" continues Old English \"gást\", from a hypothetical Common Germanic \"*gaistaz\". It is common to West Germanic, but lacking in North and East Germanic (the equivalent word in Gothic is \"ahma\", Old Norse has \"andi\" m., \"önd\" f.).\nThe pre-Germanic form was \"\", apparently from a root denoting \"fury, anger\" reflected in Old Norse \"geisa\" \"to rage.\" The Germanic word is recorded as masculine only, but likely continues a neuter \"s\"-stem. The original meaning of the Germanic word would thus have been an animating principle of the mind, in particular capable of excitation and fury (compare \"óðr\"). In Germanic paganism, \"Germanic Mercury,\" and the later Odin, was at the same time the conductor of the dead and the \"lord of fury\" leading the Wild Hunt.\n\nBesides denoting the human spirit or soul, both of the living and the deceased, the Old English word is used as a synonym of Latin \"spiritus\" also in the meaning of \"breath, blast\" from the earliest attestations (9th century). It could also denote any good or evil spirit, i.e. angels and demons; the Anglo-Saxon gospel refers to the demonic possession of Matthew 12:43 as \"se unclæna gast\". Also from the Old English period, the word could denote the spirit of God, viz. the \"Holy Ghost.\"\nThe now prevailing sense of \"the soul of a deceased person, spoken of as appearing in a visible form\" only emerges in Middle English (14th century).\nThe modern noun does, however, retain a wider field of application, extending on one hand to soul, spirit,\" vital principle, mind or psyche, the seat of feeling, thought and moral judgement; on the other hand used figuratively of any shadowy outline, fuzzy or unsubstantial image, in optics, photography and cinematography especially a flare, secondary image or spurious signal.\n\nThe synonym \"spook\" is a Dutch loanword, akin to Low German \"spôk\" (of uncertain etymology); it entered the English language via the United States in the 19th century. Alternative words in modern usage include \"spectre\" (from Latin \"spectrum\"), the Scottish \"wraith\" (of obscure origin), \"phantom\" (via French ultimately from Greek \"phantasma\", compare \"fantasy\") and \"apparition\". The term \"shade\" in classical mythology translates Greek σκιά, or Latin \"umbra\", in reference to the notion of spirits in the Greek underworld. \"Haint\" is a synonym for ghost used in regional English of the southern United States, and the \"haint tale\" is a common feature of southern oral and literary tradition. The term \"poltergeist\" is a German word, literally a \"noisy ghost,\" for a spirit said to manifest itself by invisibly moving and influencing objects.\n\n\"Wraith\" is a Scots word for \"ghost, spectre, apparition.\" It came to be used in Scottish Romanticist literature, and acquired the more general or figurative sense of \"portent, omen.\" In 18th- to 19th-century Scottish literature, it was also applied to aquatic spirits. The word has no commonly accepted etymology; OED notes \"of obscure origin\" only.\nAn association with the verb \"writhe\" was the etymology favored by J. R. R. Tolkien. Tolkien's use of the word in the naming of the creatures known as the Ringwraiths has influenced later usage in fantasy literature. Bogey or \"bogy/bogie\" is a term for a ghost, and appears in Scottish poet John Mayne's \"Hallowe'en\" in 1780.\n\nA \"revenant\" is a deceased person returning from the dead to haunt the living, either as a disembodied ghost or alternatively as an animated (\"undead\") corpse. Also related is the concept of a fetch, the visible ghost or spirit of a person yet alive.\n\nMedieval ghosts in England were more substantial than ghosts described in the Victorian age, and there are accounts of ghosts being wrestled with and physically restrained until a priest could arrive to hear its confession. Some were less solid, and could move through walls. Often they were described as paler and sadder versions of the person they had been while alive, and dressed in tattered gray rags. The vast majority of reported sightings were male.\n\nThere were some reported cases of ghostly armies, fighting battles at night in the forest, or in the remains of an Iron Age hillfort, as at Wandlebury, near Cambridge, England. Living knights were sometimes challenged to single combat by phantom knights, which vanished when defeated.\n\nOne of the more recognizable ghosts in English literature is the shade of Hamlet's murdered father in Shakespeare's \"The Tragical History of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark.\" In \"Hamlet\", it is the ghost who demands that Prince Hamlet investigate his \"murder most foul\" and seek revenge upon his usurping uncle, King Claudius. In Shakespeare's \"Macbeth\", the murdered Banquo returns as a ghost to the dismay of the title character.\n\nIn English Renaissance theater, ghosts were often depicted in the garb of the living and even in armor, as with the ghost of Hamlet's father. Armor, being out of date by the time of the Renaissance, gave the stage ghost a sense of antiquity. But the sheeted ghost began to gain ground on stage in the 19th century because an armored ghost could not satisfactorily convey the requisite spookiness: it clanked and creaked, and had to be moved about by complicated pulley systems or elevators. These clanking ghosts being hoisted about the stage became objects of ridicule as they became clichéd stage elements. Ann Jones and Peter Stallybrass, in \"Renaissance Clothing and the Materials of Memory\", point out, “In fact, it is as laughter increasingly threatens the Ghost that he starts to be staged not in armor but in some form of 'spirit drapery'.” An interesting observation by Jones and Stallybrass is that\nGhosts figured prominently in traditional British ballads of the 16th and 17th centuries, particularly the “Border ballads” of the turbulent border country between England and Scotland. Ballads of this type include \"The Unquiet Grave\", \"The Wife of Usher's Well\", and \"Sweet William's Ghost\", which feature the recurring theme of returning dead lovers or children. In the ballad \"King Henry\", a particularly ravenous ghost devours the king's horse and hounds before forcing the king into bed. The king then awakens to find the ghost transformed into a beautiful woman.\n\nOne of the key early appearances by ghosts in a gothic tale was \"The Castle of Otranto\" by Horace Walpole in 1764.\n\nWashington Irving's short story \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow\" (1820), based on an earlier German folktale, features a Headless Horseman. It has been adapted for film and television many times, such as \"Sleepy Hollow\", a successful 1999 feature film.\n\nThe \"classic\" ghost story arose during the Victorian period, and included authors such as M. R. James, Sheridan Le Fanu, Violet Hunt, and Henry James. Classic ghost stories were influenced by the gothic fiction tradition, and contain elements of folklore and psychology. M. R. James summed up the essential elements of a ghost story as, “Malevolence and terror, the glare of evil faces, ‘the stony grin of unearthly malice', pursuing forms in darkness, and 'long-drawn, distant screams', are all in place, and so is a modicum of blood, shed with deliberation and carefully husbanded...”\n\nFamous literary apparitions from this period are the ghosts of \"A Christmas Carol\", in which Ebenezer Scrooge is helped to see the error of his ways by the ghost of his former colleague Jacob Marley, and the ghosts of Christmas Past, Christmas Present and Christmas Yet to Come.\n\nOscar Wilde's comedy \"The Canterville Ghost\" has been adapted for film and television on several occasions. Henry James's \"The Turn of the Screw\" has also appeared in a number of adaptations, notably the film \"The Innocents\" and Benjamin Britten's opera \"The Turn of the Screw\".\n\nOscar Telgmann's opera \"Leo, the Royal Cadet\" (1885) includes \"Judge's Song\" about a ghost at the Royal Military College of Canada in Kingston, Ontario.\n\nIn the United States, prior to and during the First World War, folklorists Olive Dame Campbell and Cecil Sharp collected ballads from the people of the Appalachian Mountains, which included ghostly themes such as \"The Wife of Usher's Well\", \"The Suffolk Miracle\", \"The Unquiet Grave\", and \"The Cruel Ship's Carpenter\". The theme of these ballads was often the return of a dead lover. These songs were variants of traditional Anglo-Scottish ballads handed down by generations of mountaineers descended from the people of the Anglo-Scottish border region.\n\nThe Child ballad \"Sweet William's Ghost\" (1868) recounts the story of a ghost returning to beg a woman to free him from his promise to marry her, as he obviously cannot being dead. Her refusal would mean his damnation. This reflects a popular British belief that the dead haunted their lovers if they took up with a new love without some formal release. \"The Unquiet Grave\" expresses a belief found in various locations over Europe: ghosts can stem from the excessive grief of the living, whose mourning interferes with the dead's peaceful rest.\n\nProfessional parapsychologists and \"ghosts hunters\", such as Harry Price, active in the 1920s and 1930s, and Peter Underwood, active in the 1940s and 1950s, published accounts of their experiences with ostensibly true ghost stories such as Price's \"The Most Haunted House in England\", and Underwood's \"Ghosts of Borley\".\n\nChildren's benevolent ghost stories became popular, such as Casper the Friendly Ghost, created in the 1930s and appearing in comics, animated cartoons, and eventually a 1995 feature film.\n\nNoël Coward's play \"Blithe Spirit\", later made into a film, places a more humorous slant on the phenomenon of haunting of individuals and specific locations.\n\nWith the advent of motion pictures and television, screen depictions of ghosts became common, and spanned a variety of genres; the works of Shakespeare, Dickens and Wilde have all been made into cinematic versions. Novel-length tales have been difficult to adapt to cinema, although that of \"The Haunting of Hill House\" to \"The Haunting\" in 1963 is an exception.\n\nSentimental depictions during this period were more popular in cinema than horror, and include the 1947 film \"The Ghost and Mrs. Muir\", which was later adapted to television with a successful 1968–70 TV series. Genuine psychological horror films from this period include 1944's \"The Uninvited\", and 1945's \"Dead of Night\".\n\nThe 1970s saw English-language screen depictions of ghosts diverge into distinct genres of the romantic and horror. A common theme in the romantic genre from this period is the ghost as a benign guide or messenger, often with unfinished business, such as 1989's \"Field of Dreams\", the 1990 film \"Ghost\", and the 1993 comedy \"Heart and Souls\". In the horror genre, 1980's \"The Fog\", and the \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" series of films from the 1980s and 1990s are notable examples of the trend for the merging of ghost stories with scenes of physical violence.\n\nPopularised in such films as the 1984 comedy \"Ghostbusters\", ghost hunting became a hobby for many who formed ghost hunting societies to explore reportedly haunted places. The ghost hunting theme has been featured in reality television series, such as \"Ghost Adventures\", \"Ghost Hunters\", \"Ghost Hunters International\", \"Ghost Lab\", \"Most Haunted\" and \"A Haunting\". It is also represented in children's television by such programs as \"The Ghost Hunter\" and \"Ghost Trackers\". Ghost hunting also gave rise to multiple guidebooks to haunted locations, and ghost hunting \"how-to\" manuals.\n\nThe 1990s saw a return to classic \"gothic\" ghosts, whose dangers were more psychological than physical. Examples of films from this period include 1999's \"The Sixth Sense\" and 2001's \"The Others\".\n\nAccording to the Gallup Poll News Service, belief in haunted houses, ghosts, communication with the dead, and witches had an especially steep increase over the 1990s in the United States. A 2005 Gallup poll found that about 32 percent of Americans believe in ghosts.\n\n"}
{"id": "11986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11986", "title": "Godzilla", "text": "Godzilla\n\nGodzilla is depicted as an enormous, destructive, prehistoric sea monster awakened and empowered by nuclear radiation. With the nuclear bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the \"Lucky Dragon 5\" incident still fresh in the Japanese consciousness, Godzilla was conceived as a metaphor for nuclear weapons. As the film series expanded, some stories took on less serious undertones, portraying Godzilla as an antihero, or a lesser threat who defends humanity. With the end of the Cold War, several post-1984 \"Godzilla\" films shifted the character's portrayal to themes including Japan's forgetfulness over its imperial past, natural disasters and the human condition.\n\nGodzilla has been featured alongside many supporting characters. It has faced human opponents such as the JSDF, or other monsters, including King Ghidorah, Gigan and Mechagodzilla. Godzilla sometimes has allies, such as Mothra, Rodan and Anguirus, and offspring, such as Minilla and Godzilla Junior. Godzilla has also fought characters from other franchises in crossover media, such as RKO Pictures/Universal Studios movie monster King Kong and American comic books publisher Marvel Comics characters S.H.I.E.L.D., the Fantastic Four and the Avengers.\n\n is a portmanteau of the Japanese words: and , which is fitting because in one planning stage, Godzilla was described as \"a cross between a gorilla and a whale\", alluding to its size, power and aquatic origin. One popular story is that \"Gojira\" was actually the nickname of a corpulent stagehand at Toho Studio. Kimi Honda, the widow of the director, dismissed this in a 1998 BBC documentary devoted to Godzilla, \"The backstage boys at Toho loved to joke around with tall stories\".\n\nGodzilla's name was written in ateji as , where the kanji are used for phonetic value and not for meaning. The Japanese pronunciation of the name is ; the Anglicized form is , with the first syllable pronounced like the word \"god\" and the rest rhyming with \"gorilla\". In the Hepburn romanization system, Godzilla's name is rendered as \"Gojira\", whereas in the Kunrei romanization system it is rendered as \"Gozira\".\n\nDuring the development of the American version of \"Godzilla Raids Again\" (1955), Godzilla's name was changed to \"Gigantis\", a move initiated by producer Paul Schreibman, who wanted to create a character distinct from Godzilla.\n\nWithin the context of the Japanese films, Godzilla's exact origins vary, but it is generally depicted as an enormous, violent, prehistoric sea monster awakened and empowered by nuclear radiation. Although the specific details of Godzilla's appearance have varied slightly over the years, the overall impression has remained consistent. Inspired by the fictional \"Rhedosaurus\" created by animator Ray Harryhausen for the film \"The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms\", Godzilla's iconic character design was conceived as that of an amphibious reptilian monster based around the loose concept of a dinosaur with an erect standing posture, scaly skin, an anthropomorphic torso with muscular arms, spikes on its back and tail, and a furrowed brow. Art director Akira Watanabe combined attributes of a \"Tyrannosaurus\", an \"Iguanodon\", a \"Stegosaurus\" and an alligator to form a sort of blended chimera, inspired by illustrations from an issue of \"Life\" magazine. To emphasise the monster's relationship with the atomic bomb, its skin texture was inspired by the keloid scars seen on survivors in Hiroshima. The basic design has a reptilian visage, a robust build, an upright posture, a long tail and rows of serrated fins along the back. In the original film, the fins were added for purely aesthetic purposes, in order to further differentiate Godzilla from any other living or extinct creature. Godzilla is sometimes depicted as green in comics, cartoons and movie posters, but the costumes used in the movies were usually painted charcoal grey with bone-white dorsal fins up until the film \"Godzilla 2000\".\n\nGodzilla's signature weapon is its \"atomic breath,\" a nuclear blast that it generates inside of its body and unleashes from its jaws in the form of a blue or red radioactive heat ray. Toho's special effects department has used various techniques to render the breath, from physical gas-powered flames to hand-drawn or computer-generated fire. Godzilla is shown to possess immense physical strength and muscularity. Haruo Nakajima, the actor who played Godzilla in the original films, was a black belt in Judo and used his expertise to choreograph the battle sequences. Godzilla can breathe underwater, and is described in the original film by the character Dr. Yamane as a transitional form between a marine and a terrestrial reptile. Godzilla is shown to have great vitality: it is immune to conventional weaponry thanks to its rugged hide and ability to regenerate and as a result of surviving a nuclear explosion, it cannot be destroyed by anything less powerful. Various films, television shows, comics and games have depicted Godzilla with additional powers such as an atomic pulse, magnetism, precognition, fireballs, an electric bite, superhuman speed, eye beams and even flight.\n\nGodzilla's allegiance and motivations have changed from film to film to suit the needs of the story. Although Godzilla does not like humans, it will fight alongside humanity against common threats. However, it makes no special effort to protect human life or property and will turn against its human allies on a whim. It is not motivated to attack by predatory instinct: it does not eat people, and instead sustains itself on radiation and an omnivorous diet. When inquired if Godzilla was \"good or bad\", producer Shogo Tomiyama likened it to a Shinto \"God of Destruction\" which lacks moral agency and cannot be held to human standards of good and evil. \"He totally destroys everything and then there is a rebirth. Something new and fresh can begin.\"\n\nIn the original Japanese films, Godzilla and all the other monsters are referred to with gender-neutral pronouns equivalent to \"it\", while in the English dubbed versions, Godzilla is explicitly described as a male, such as in the title of \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\". The creature in the 1998 Godzilla film was depicted laying eggs through parthenogenesis.\n\nGodzilla has a distinctive disyllabic roar (transcribed in several comics as \"Skreeeonk!\"), which was created by composer Akira Ifukube, who produced the sound by rubbing a pine-tar-resin-coated glove along the string of a contrabass and then slowing down the playback. In the American version of \"Godzilla Raids Again\" (1955) entitled \"Gigantis the Fire Monster\", Godzilla's iconic roar was substituted with that of the monster Anguirus. From \"The Return of Godzilla\" (1984) to \"Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah\" (1991), Godzilla was given a deeper and more threatening-sounding roar than in previous films, though this change was reverted from \"Godzilla vs. Mothra\" (1992) onwards. For the 2014 American film, sound editors Ethan Van der Ryn and Erik Aadahl refused to disclose the source of the sounds used for their Godzilla's roar. Aadahl described the two syllables of the roar as representing two different emotional reactions, with the first expressing fury and the second conveying the character's soul.\n\nGodzilla's size is inconsistent, changing from film to film and even from scene to scene for the sake of artistic license. The miniature sets and costumes were typically built at a – scale and filmed at 240 frames per second to create the illusion of great size. In the original 1954 film, Godzilla was scaled to be tall. This was done so Godzilla could just peer over the largest buildings in Tokyo at the time. In the 1956 American version, Godzilla is estimated to be tall, because producer Joseph E. Levine felt that 50 m did not sound \"powerful enough\". As the series progressed Toho would rescale the character, eventually making Godzilla as tall as . This was so that it would not be dwarfed by the newer bigger buildings in Tokyo's skyline such as the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building which Godzilla destroyed in the film \"Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah\" (1991). Supplementary information such as character profiles would also depict Godzilla as weighing between . In the American film \"Godzilla\" (2014) from Legendary Pictures, Godzilla was scaled to be and weighing , making it the largest film version to that time. Director Gareth Edwards wanted Godzilla \"to be so big as to be seen from anywhere in the city, but not too big that he couldn't be obscured\". For \"Shin Godzilla\" (2016), Godzilla was made even taller than the Legendary version, at .\n\nGodzilla's appearance has traditionally been portrayed in the films by an actor wearing a latex costume, though the character has also been rendered in animatronic, stop-motion and computer-generated form.\n\nTaking inspiration from \"King Kong\", special effects artist Eiji Tsuburaya had initially wanted Godzilla to be portrayed via stop-motion, but prohibitive deadlines and a lack of experienced animators in Japan at the time made suitmation more practical. The first suit consisted of a body cavity made of thin wires and bamboo wrapped in chicken wire for support and covered in fabric and cushions, which were then coated in latex. The first suit was held together by small hooks on the back, though subsequent Godzilla suits incorporated a zipper. Its weight was in excess of . Prior to 1984, most Godzilla suits were made from scratch, thus resulting in slight design changes in each film appearance. The most notable changes during the 1960s-70s were the reduction in Godzilla's number of toes and the removal of the character's external ears and prominent fangs, features which would later be reincorporated in the Godzilla designs from \"The Return of Godzilla\" (1984) onward. The most consistent Godzilla design was maintained from \"Godzilla vs. Biollante\" (1989) to \"Godzilla vs. Destoroyah\" (1995), when the suit was given a cat-like face and double rows of teeth. Several suit actors had difficulties in performing as Godzilla, due to the suits' weight, lack of ventilation and diminished visibility. Kenpachiro Satsuma in particular, who portrayed Godzilla from 1984 to 1995, described how the Godzilla suits he wore were even heavier and hotter than their predecessors, because of the incorporation of animatronics. Satsuma himself suffered numerous medical issues during his tenure, including oxygen deprivation, near drowning, concussions, electric shocks and lacerations to the legs from the suits' steel wire reinforcements wearing through the rubber padding. The ventilation problem was partially solved in the suit used in 1994's \"Godzilla vs. SpaceGodzilla\", which was the first to include an air duct, which allowed suit actors to last longer during performances. In \"The Return of Godzilla\" (1984), some scenes made use of a 16-foot high robotic Godzilla (dubbed the \"Cybot Godzilla\") for use in close-up shots of the creature's head. The Cybot Godzilla consisted of a hydraulically-powered mechanical endoskeleton covered in urethane skin containing 3,000 computer operated parts which permitted it to tilt its head and move its lips and arms.\n\nIn \"Godzilla\" (1998), special effects artist Patrick Tatopoulos was instructed to redesign Godzilla as an incredibly fast runner. At one point, it was planned to use motion capture from a human to create the movements of the computer-generated Godzilla, but it ended up looking too much like a human in a suit. Tatopoulos subsequently reimagined the creature as a lean, digitigrade bipedal iguana that stood with its back and tail parallel to the ground, rendered via CGI. Several scenes had the monster portrayed by stuntmen in suits. The suits were similar to those used in the Toho films, with the actors' heads being located in the monster's neck region, and the facial movements controlled via animatronics. However, because of the creature's horizontal posture, the stuntmen had to wear metal leg extenders, which allowed them to stand off the ground with their feet bent forward. The film's special effects crew also built a scale animatronic Godzilla for close-up scenes, whose size outmatched that of Stan Winston's \"T. rex\" in \"Jurassic Park\". Kurt Carley performed the suitmation sequences for the adult Godzilla.\n\nIn \"Godzilla\" (2014), the character was portrayed entirely via CGI. Godzilla's design in the reboot was intended to stay true to that of the original series, though the film's special effects team strove to make the monster \"more dynamic than a guy in a big rubber suit.\" To create a CG version of Godzilla, the Moving Picture Company (MPC) studied various animals such as bears, Komodo dragons, lizards, lions and gray wolves which helped the visual effects artists visualize Godzilla's body structure like that of its underlying bone, fat and muscle structure as well as the thickness and texture of its scale. Motion capture was also used for some of Godzilla's movements. T.J. Storm provided the performance capture for Godzilla by wearing sensors in front of a green screen.\n\nIn \"Shin Godzilla\", a majority of the character was portrayed via CGI, with Mansai Nomura portraying Godzilla through motion capture.\n\nGodzilla is one of the most recognizable symbols of Japanese popular culture worldwide and remains an important facet of Japanese films, embodying the kaiju subset of the tokusatsu genre. Godzilla's vaguely humanoid appearance and strained, lumbering movements endeared it to Japanese audiences, who could relate to Godzilla as a sympathetic character, despite its wrathful nature. Audiences respond positively to the character because it acts out of rage and self-preservation and shows where science and technology can go wrong.\n\nIn 1967, the Keukdong Entertainment Company of South Korea, with production assistance from Toei Company, produced \"Yongary, Monster from the Deep\", a reptilian monster who invades South Korea to consume oil. The film and character has often been branded as a knock-off of Godzilla.\n\nGodzilla has been considered a filmographic metaphor for the United States, as well as an allegory of nuclear weapons in general. The earlier \"Godzilla\" films, especially the original, portrayed Godzilla as a frightening nuclear-spawned monster. Godzilla represented the fears that many Japanese held about the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the possibility of recurrence. As the series progressed, so did Godzilla, changing into a less destructive and more heroic character as the films became geared more towards children. Since then, the character has fallen somewhere in the middle, sometimes portrayed as a protector of the world from external threats and other times as a bringer of destruction.\n\nIn 1996, Godzilla received the MTV Lifetime Achievement Award, as well as being given a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2004 to celebrate the premiere of the character's 50th anniversary film, \"\". Godzilla's pop-cultural impact has led to the creation of numerous parodies and tributes, as seen in media such as \"Bambi Meets Godzilla\", which was ranked as one of the \"50 greatest cartoons\", various episodes of \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\" and the song \"Godzilla\" by Blue Öyster Cult. Godzilla has also been used in advertisements, such as in a commercial for Nike, where Godzilla lost a game of basketball to NBA player Charles Barkley. The commercial was subsequently adapted into a comic book illustrated by Jeff Butler. Godzilla has also appeared in a commercial for Snickers candy bars, which served as an indirect promo for the 2014 movie. Godzilla's success inspired the creation of numerous other monster characters, such as Gamera, Reptilicus of Denmark, Yonggary of South Korea, Pulgasari of North Korea, Gorgo of the United Kingdom and the Cloverfield monster of the United States.\n\nGodzilla's fame and saurian appearance has influenced the scientific community. \"Gojirasaurus\" is a dubious genus of coelophysid dinosaur, named by paleontologist and admitted Godzilla fan Kenneth Carpenter. \"Dakosaurus\" is an extinct marine crocodile of the Jurassic Period, which researchers informally nicknamed \"Godzilla\". Paleontologists have written tongue-in-cheek speculative articles about Godzilla's biology, with Ken Carpenter tentatively classifying it as a ceratosaur based on its skull shape, four-fingered hands and dorsal scutes, and paleontologist Darren Naish expressing skepticism while commenting on Godzilla's unusual morphology.\n\nGodzilla's ubiquity in pop-culture has led to the mistaken assumption that the character is in the public domain, resulting in litigation by Toho to protect their corporate asset from becoming a generic trademark. In April 2008, Subway depicted a giant monster in a commercial for their Five Dollar Footlong sandwich promotion. Toho filed a lawsuit against Subway for using the character without permission, demanding $150,000 in compensation. In February 2011, Toho sued Honda for depicting a fire-breathing monster in a commercial for the Honda Odyssey. The monster was never mentioned by name, being seen briefly on a video screen inside the minivan. The Sea Shepherd Conservation Society christened a vessel \"Gojira\". Its purpose is to target and harass Japanese whalers in defense of whales in the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary. The \"Gojira\" was renamed in May 2011 due to legal pressure from Toho. Gojira is the name of a French death metal band, formerly known as Godzilla; legal problems forced the band to change their name. In May 2015, Toho launched a lawsuit against Voltage Pictures over a planned picture starring Anne Hathaway. Promotional material released at the Cannes Film Festival used images of Godzilla.\n\nThe main-belt asteroid 101781 Gojira, discovered by American astronomer Roy Tucker at the Goodricke-Pigott Observatory in 1999, was named in honor of the Japanese fantasy creature. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 11 July 2018 ().\n\nTo encourage tourism in April 2015 the central Shinjuku ward of Tokyo named Godzilla an official cultural ambassador. During an unveiling of a giant Godzilla bust at Toho headquarters, Shinjuku mayor Kenichi Yoshizumi stated \"Godzilla is a character that is the pride of Japan.\" The mayor extended a residency certificate to an actor in a rubber suit representing Godzilla, but as the suit's hands were not designed for grasping it was accepted on Godzilla's behalf by a Toho executive. Reporters noted that Shinjuku ward has been flattened by Godzilla in three Toho movies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55542260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55542260", "title": "Husband stitch", "text": "Husband stitch\n\nThe husband stitch or husband's stitch, also known as the daddy stitch, husband's knot and vaginal tuck, is a purported surgical procedure in which one or more sutures than necessary are used to repair a woman's perineum after it has been torn or cut during childbirth. The claimed purpose is to tighten the opening of the vagina and thereby enhance the pleasure of her male sex partner during penetrative intercourse. Evidence for benefits is lacking.\n\nWhile repair of the perineum may be medically necessary, an \"extra\" stitch is not, and may cause discomfort or pain. Use of the term in the medical literature can be traced to \"Transactions of the Texas State Medical Association\" in 1885. There is also a reference to it in \"What Women Want to Know\" (1958), a book co-written by an American gynaecologist.\n\nIt appears that no studies exist to determine whether the procedure occurs and how many women have been affected. Some medical practitioners view reports about the procedure as an urban legend. One writer suggests that it might be a joke made by men to relieve tension after their partners have given birth.\n\nA short story by Carmen Maria Machado, \"The Husband Stitch\", first published in 2014 by \"Granta\", describes a woman undergoing the procedure.\n\n"}
{"id": "13396302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13396302", "title": "Japanese aircraft carrier Chiyoda", "text": "Japanese aircraft carrier Chiyoda\n\nThe \"Chitose\"-class seaplane tenders were procured by the Imperial Japanese Navy under the 2nd Naval Armaments Supplement Programme of 1934 as purpose-built ships, whereas their predecessors were all conversions of merchant or auxiliary ship designs. During the 1930s, the Imperial Japanese Navy made increasing use of naval aviation as scouts for its cruiser and destroyer squadrons. Due to restrictions imposed by the Washington Naval Treaty and London Naval Treaty, the number of aircraft carriers was strictly regulated; however, there was no limitation as to seaplane tenders.\n\n\"Chiyoda\" was designed from the start on the premise that the design from the waterline upwards could be modified to suit a variety of missions. The hull and engine design was based on a high speed oiler, with a maximum speed of , but the ship was completed as a seaplane tender, with four aircraft catapults for launching seaplanes, and cranes for recovering landed aircraft on her aft deck.\nAs designed, \"Chiyoda\" carried a complement of Kawanishi E7K Type 94 \"Alf\" and Nakajima E8N Type 95 \"Dave\" floatplanes. Her armament consisted of four 12.7 cm/40 Type 89 naval guns and twelve Type 96 25 mm AA guns.\n\nPropulsion was of four boilers, which operated two geared steam turbines providing and two propellers. With two additional diesel engines operating \"Chiyoda\" could attain .\n\nWith the loss of four large aircraft carriers at the Battle of Midway, the Imperial Japanese Navy rushed a project to convert the \"Chitose\"-class into light aircraft carriers as partial compensation. A wooden flight deck was installed, with two elevators. The bridge was moved to the front end of the new hangar deck, and the boiler exhaust gases was discharged through pipes to the starboard side below the flight deck, and the diesel engines had smaller, separate smokestacks also on the starboard side. As converted, the ship could carry 30 aircraft.\n\n\"Chiyoda\" was laid down on 14 December 1936 and launched on 19 November 1937 at Kure Naval Arsenal and was commissioned on 15 December 1938. On completion, she was assigned directly to the Combined Fleet under the command of Captain Tomeo Kaku and was dispatched to the front lines in the Second Sino-Japanese War paired with the seaplane tender . She remained engaged in combat operations in China until May 1940.\nOn returning to Kure Naval Arsenal on 23 May 1940, \"Chiyoda\" underwent her first major modification, with her aircraft capacity reduced from 24 to 12 aircraft, and the space used to store 12 Type A Kō-hyōteki-class submarines. This rebuild was completed on 23 June, and \"Chiyoda\" was assigned to the 4th Fleet based at Truk in September. Captain Kaku Harada was appointed captain in August. \"Chiyoda\" returned to participate in a naval review held on 11 October in Yokohama to celebrate the 2600th anniversary of the founding of the Japanese Empire. Afterwards, she was reassigned back to the Combined Fleet and began training operations on the use of her midget submarines through September, developing tactics for attacking other vessels (using \"Chitose\" as a target) and penetrating enemy naval bases. At the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor, \"Chiyoda\" was docked at Kure and continued training operations to 20 March 1942, when she was assigned to Vice Admiral Teruhisa Komatsu’s 6th Fleet together with the submarine tender and \"Aikoku Maru\".\n\nDuring the Battle of Midway, \"Chiyoda\" was part of Main Body of the Japanese fleet. For this operation, she carried eight Type A Kō-hyōteki-class submarines, which were intended to be stationed at Kure Atoll, which was to be seized as a seaplane base for operations against Midway Atoll. The operation was cancelled on the loss of the Japanese aircraft carriers during the Battle of Midway, and \"Chiyoda\" returned to Hashirajima with her submarines on 14 June without having seen combat.\n\nDuring June, \"Chiyoda\" was refit for operations in northern waters, and departed Yokosuka Naval District on 28 June, arriving at Japanese-occupied Kiska in the Aleutian islands on 5 July with a construction team to build a seaplane base. She was attacked by aircraft from the United States Army Air Force 11th Air Force on the same day, without damage and arrived back at Hashirajima on 19 July.\n\nOn 25 September, \"Chiyoda\" was reassigned to the Guadalcanal area in the Solomon Islands and delivered eight Type A Kō-hyōteki-class submarines to Shortland Island on 14 October. She was attacked by Allied aircraft on 29 October and 31 October, but suffered no damage, and on 6 November, after her return to Truk, she was attacked by the submarine , which fired three torpedoes at \"Chiyoda,\" all of which missed. \"Chiyoda\" returned to Yokosuka on 8 January 1943 and was converted from a seaplane tender to a light aircraft carrier at the Yokosuka Naval Arsenal beginning 16 January, with the work completed on 21 December 1943.\n\nAfter conversion, \"Chiyoda\" was assigned to the 3rd Fleet and departed Yokosuka for Saipan, Guam and Palau, Balikpapan and Davao on 1 March as part of emergency reinforcements following the fall of Kwajalein to the US, returning to Kure on 10 April. On 11 May, she departed for Tawitawi with Air Group 653 as part of Operation A-Go, for the defense of the Mariana Islands. She was accompanied by the carriers \"Chitose\", , , , and by the battleship . During the Battle of the Philippine Sea on 19 June, she was part of the Van Force with carriers \"Chitose\", \"Zuihō\", battleships , \"Musashi\", , and cruisers , , and . She was hit by a bomb on 20 June on her aft flight deck, which killed 20 crewmen, wounded 30 more and destroyed two aircraft. She was withdrawn for repairs on 22 June. She remained at Kure through the end of July.\n\nOn 20 October 1944 \"Chiyoda\" departed Oita as part of Admiral Jisaburō Ozawa’s Decoy Force intended to lure the American fleet away from the landing beaches in the Philippines in the Battle of Leyte Gulf. This force included \"Zuikaku\", \"Zuihō\", \"Chitose\" and \"Chiyoda\", all divested of aircraft and accompanied by converted hybrid battleship-carriers and and cruisers , , . On 25 October, both \"Chiyoda\" and \"Chitose\" were sunk by a combination of naval bombers, cruiser shellfire and destroyer-launched torpedoes during the Battle of Cape Engano.\n\n\"Chiyoda\" was crippled by four bombs dropped by aircraft from the carriers and that left her dead in the water. The converted hybrid battleship-carrier \"Hyūga\" attempted to take her in tow, but was prevented by a third attack. The cruiser was ordered to remove \"Chiyoda\"s crew, but this was also frustrated due to continuing danger from air and surface attack. After three attempts, \"Isuzu\" was forced to retreat with U.S. surface forces in sight and \"Chiyoda\" under naval gunfire. She was finished off by gunfire from four cruisers , , and along with nine destroyers, all under the command of Rear Admiral Laurence DuBose. No survivors were permitted to be rescued, and Captain Jō Eiichirō and the entire crew of 1,470 officers and men went down with the ship at position . \"Chiyoda\" was removed from the navy list on 20 December 1944.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43377793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43377793", "title": "Japanese submarine I-41", "text": "Japanese submarine I-41\n\nI-41 was a Japanese B2 type submarine. She was completed at Kure Navy Yard on 18 September 1943, whereupon she entered into service with the Imperial Japanese Navy Yokosuka Naval District, SubRon 11, and sailed to Yokosuka for final trials under the command of Lt. Commander Tamori Yoshimatsu. This was completed by 15 December 1943 and command was transferred to Lt. Commander Itakura Mitsuma. \"I-41\" was reassigned to the Sixth Fleet in SubRon 1's Sub Division 15.\n\nOn 29 December 1943 the new submarine departed Tokosuka for Truk. Arriving at Truk on New Years Day 1944, her deck gun and all of her torpedoes were taken on shore to prepare the sub for a supply mission. Nine days later \"I-41\" was designated as the flagship of SubDiv 15. On 15 January 1943 \"I-41\" sailed from Truk for Rabaul. While en route, SubRon1 was disbanded and the submarine was attached directly to the Sixth Fleet Headquarters. She docked at Rabaul on 19 January 1944, loaded supplies, and left four days later on her first supply run to Sarmi, New Guinea. \"I-41\" arrived at Sarmi on 25 January and unloaded, departing immediately to return to Rabaul. She arrived there on 27 January. Heading to sea again on 31 January the submarine made for Bougainville Island. After evading minefields and enemy patrols she arrived at Buin, unloaded on 4 February, and returned to Rabaul on 7 February. Between 12 February and 24 February she made another supply run to Buin, tying up at Rabaul once again before setting out for Truk on 27 February carrying 98 naval pilots and staff officers as passengers, including the commanding officer of the 501st Naval Air Group. She arrived safely at Truk on 2 March and discharged her passengers. She sailed on 7 March toward Rabaul, but was recalled to Truk on the 9th.\n\nAfter a week's respite \"I-41\" sailed for Rabaul once again on 15 March. While en route, on March 19, \"I-41\" was running surfaced north of Rabaul when she was attacked by two torpedoes from an unknown enemy submarine. The lookouts saw the \"fish\" in time and Lt. Commander Itakura was able to evade the attack by turning sharply to port; the nearest torpedo passed 55 yards ahead of the submarine. Upon arrival at Rabaul the next day she was reassigned to SubRon 7.\n\nUSN Fleet Radio Unit Melbourne (FRUMEL) intercepted and decoded a message the same day indicating that \"I-41\" was expected to leave Rabaul at 0300 on 21st, pass through 3-08S, 149-21E at 0200 on 23rd, and arrive Truk at 1330 on 25th. This was accurate information. The sub left at the appointed time transporting 98 passengers including the CO of SubRon 7, Rear Admiral Owada Noboru, his staff, and a number of airmen. While she was en route FRUMEL intercepted another message reading, \"Expect submarine I-41 to arrive South Channel about 0900 tomorrow 25th.\" This was also accurate. Despite this, the submarine was not attacked and arrived safely at Truk on 25 March. She was escorted in through the south channel by \"Kinpo Maru No. 1\".\n\nIn April 1944, \"I-41\" was selected as one of several submarines to participate in an amphibious assault on Majuro in the Marshall Islands. She was ordered to train with \"I-36\", \"I-38\", \"I-44\", and \"I-53\" for this attack, which called for the submarines to carry amphibious tanks armed with torpedoes from Kure to Majuro. Once there they would be put ashore, make their way overland, and enter the water again to attack ships in harbor there. The plan was cancelled before it could be realized, however.\n\nWith the cancellation of Operation Tatsumaki, \"I-41\" returned to her previous duties as a supply sub. She left Truk on 1 April 1944, making her third run to Buin with 50 tons of food. She arrived on 7 April, unloaded, embarked 73 passengers, and returned to Truk. \"I-41\" docked at Truk on 13 April. Her deck gun was remounted during her layover in Truk Lagoon. For his successful supply runs, Lt. Commander Itakura is given a gift of cigarettes from Vice Admiral Takagi Takeo, the CINC of the Sixth Fleet. On 19 April the sub departed Truk for Yokosuka, where she arrived on the 25th. She was then transferred to Kure.\n\nAfter needed upkeep, \"I-41\" departed Kure to patrol between the Admiralty Islands and Wewak, New Guinea, on 15 May 1944. No targets were sighted, but while still on patrol 13 June word was received by Admiral Toyoda Soemu, CINC, Combined Fleet, that the American anchorage at Marujo was empty. The admiral ordered Vice Admiral Takagi to redeploy his boats, \"I-41\" among them, toward the Marianas. \"I-41\" received the order the next day, being dispatched to a region South of Guam at best possible speed.\n\nOn 15 June 1944 the American invasion of Saipan started. As a result, communication with Vice Admiral Takagi Takeo and Sixth Fleet Command was disrupted and command of sixth fleet submarines passed to Rear Admiral Owada Noboru of SubRon 7 at Truk. In his final message sent from the island, Takagi announced he and his staff were planning to join a banzai charge imminently. He was promoted to Admiral, posthumously. Following this, \"I-41\" was redirected to a patrol area southeast of the Marianas in the company of the submarines \"RO-113\", \"RO-114\", \"RO-115\", and \"RO-116\".\n\nOn 22 June 1944, \"I-41\" was detached from her group and ordered to Guam to evacuate naval aviators stranded there. She arrived two days later and surveyed the island from periscope depth in search of a suitable embarkation point. After sunset she surfaced 1,100 yards offshore and contacted units on land. Two barges managed to transfer a total of 106 pilots (mostly from the 705th Naval Air Group) before an approaching patrol bomber (a Consolidated B-24 Liberator) forced the submarine to dive. Further embarkation was aborted. The submarine and her passengers returned to Ōita on Kyushu, landing there on 30 June 1944.\n\nBeginning 1 July, the submarine arrived at Kure and commenced battle training. On 5 August command of the submarine was transferred to Lt. Commander Kondo Fumitake, the former CO of \"RO-112\"; training continued until 9 October, when \"I-41\" was transferred to the Otsujima Kaiten base in the Inland Sea to train human torpedo crews, returning to Kure thereafter.\n\nOn 13 October Operation Sho-I-Go (Defense of the Philippines) was ordered. Six days later \"I-41\" departed Kure to patrol east of the Philippines. The next day an American fleet of 738 ships landed on Leyte, precipitating an order to \"I-41\" to proceed at flank speed to a patrol area east of Leyte. There she operated in tandem with \"I-38\". \"I-41\" reported sinking an American transport on 27 October, but there is no corroborating loss on the American side.\n\nOn 30 October the submarine reported sighting a task force with three aircraft carriers 220 miles east by northeast of Suluan Island but was not able to engage. A few days later, on 3 November, \"I-41\"'s looksouts sighted what they believed was an aircraft carrier near the San Bernardino Strait, in the company of other ships. It is possible this was USS Lexington, which was in the area at the time. At 2330 hours Lt. Commander Kondo set up his shot and fired a salvo of torprdoes at the target. One of these hit the light cruiser USS Reno in the port side. Kondo reported sinking a carrier, but in fact no hits were scored on any carrier and \"Reno\" did not sink, later being towed to Ulithi by the tug USS Zuni. A Yokosuka P1Y 'Frances' attack bomber \"confirmed\" Lt. Commander Kondo's claim and he was awarded a special citation from Emperor Hirohito.\n\nOn 12 November 1944 Lt. Commander Kondo reported attacking another task force. This communication was the last word received from \"I-41\".\n\nEast of Samar on 18 November 1944 during an ASW patrol in the Philippine Sea, Task Group 30.7's \"USS Anzio\" was alerted to the presence of a Japanese submarine in her operating area by an \"Ultra\" signals-intelligence message. \"Anzio\"'s aircraft conducted an ASW sweep. One of the aircraft reported a radar contact on a submarine on the surface. After a 14-hour hunt, \"USS Lawrence C. Taylor\", in a coordinated depth charge attack with her sister-ship \"USS Melvin R. Nawman\" and two planes from \"Anzio\", sank I-41 at . There were no survivors. Overdue from patrol, \"I-41\" was presumed lost with all hands on 2 December 1944 and removed from the navy List on 10 March 1945.\n\n"}
{"id": "22129340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22129340", "title": "Jimmy Armstrong (footballer, born 1901)", "text": "Jimmy Armstrong (footballer, born 1901)\n\nJames William Armstrong (6 September 1901 – 1977) was a professional footballer who played for Spen Black and White, Swalwell-on-Tyne, Chelsea, Tottenham Hotspur, Luton Town and Bristol Rovers.\n\nArmstrong joined Chelsea from Spen Black and White in 1922. The forward played 29 matches and scored on nine occasions for the Stamford Bridge club. He joined Tottenham Hotspur in 1927 where he featured in a further 33 games and finding the net five times in all competitions. In 1930 he moved to Luton Town to compete in 10 matches. He finished his career at Bristol Rovers and played in nine matches and netting twice.\n"}
{"id": "7887567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7887567", "title": "John E. Fryer", "text": "John E. Fryer\n\nJohn Ercel Fryer, M.D. (November 7, 1937 – February 21, 2003) was an American psychiatrist and gay rights activist best known for his anonymous speech at the 1972 American Psychiatric Association (APA) annual conference where he appeared in disguise and under the name Dr. Henry Anonymous. This event has been cited as a key factor in the decision to de-list homosexuality as a mental illness from the APA's \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\". The APA's \"John E. Fryer, M.D., Award\" is named in his honor.\n\nFryer was born in Winchester, Kentucky to Ercel Ray Fryer and Katherine Zempter Fryer. He was in the second grade of his elementary school at 5 years old, graduated from high school at 15, and at 19 earned a bachelors degree from Transylvania University in Lexington, Kentucky where he became a member of Phi Kappa Tau Fraternity. He received his medical degree from Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee in 1962, and did his medical internship at Ohio State University. He began his psychiatric residency at the Menninger Foundation in Topeka, Kansas, but left – on the advice of a psychoanalyist – due to the depression caused by having to hide his homosexuality; he later described Menninger as having \"a lot of homophobia.\" He moved to Philadelphia, where he held a residency at the University of Pennsylvania, but was forced to leave because of his homosexuality; he completed his residency in 1967 at Norristown State Hospital.\n\nAround the mid-1960s, Fryer began to receive referrals from Alfred A. Gross, the Executive Secretary of the George W. Henry Foundation – co-founded by Gross and Henry in 1948 to help those \"who by reason of sexual deviation are in trouble with themselves, the law or society\" – to treat homosexual men who had run afoul of the law, and to testify on their behalf in court cases.\n\nFryer joined the medical faculty of Philadelphia's Temple University in 1967. As of January 1969, he was an instructor in psychiatry there. He worked in the community health center in North Philadelphia, and became active in the Health Care and Human Values Task Force, using a $5,000 grant to that organization to create a group he called \"Ars Moriendi\" to deal with matter concerning the professional reaction to death and dying. This later became the International Work Group on Death, Dying, and Bereavement.\n\nAt a time when homosexuality was still listed as a mental illness, a sociopathic personality disturbance according to second edition of the APA's \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-II), published in 1968, Fryer was the first gay American psychiatrist to speak publicly about his sexuality. In 1970, a protest at an APA event in San Francisco on aversion therapy, the message of which, according to lesbian activist Barbara Gittings, was \"Stop talking about us and starting talking with us\", earned gay and lesbian activists a voice in the association. The next year at the 1971 convention in Washington, Gittings organized a panel discussion on \"Lifestyles of Non-patient Homosexuals\", which was chaired by gay Harvard University astronomer Dr. Franklin E. Kameny, who had previously lost a job with the federal government due to his homosexuality.\n\nIn a planned protest, members of the APA's Gay Liberation and the Radical Caucus seized the microphone. Kameny denounced the APA's \"oppression\" of homosexuals by psychiatry, calling it \"the enemy incarnate\". This was part of Kameny's long-standing protest about the diagnosis of homosexuality, a fight that he had been waging since at least 1964, when he appeared on television to declare that being gay was \"not a disease, a pathology, a sickness, a malfunction or a disorder of any sort.\" Kameny wrote in \"Psychiatric News\" that \"[W]e object to the sickness theory of homosexuality tenaciously held with utter disregard for the disastrous consequences of this theory to the homosexual, based as it is on poor science.\"\n\nThis protest led to a session the next year, at the association's 1972 annual meeting, on homosexuality and mental illness. Entitled \"Psychiatry: Friend or Foe to the Homosexual?; A Dialogue\" it included Kameny and Gittings on the panel. Gittings' partner, Kay Lahusen, had noted that the panel had on it homosexuals who were not psychiatrists, and psychiatrists who were not homosexuals, but no homosexual psychiatrists, so Gittings set out to find one who would be willing to be a panel member. After numerous contacts, she was unable to find a gay psychiatrist who would speak, so she decided that she would read letters from gay psychiatrists without revealing their names. She then contacted Fryer, and convinced him to appear. Fryer later said that the recent death of his father was one factor that caused him to accept the invitation, but his experiences at losing positions because of his homosexuality meant that he did so only after Gittings suggested that he could be disguised.\n\nListed only as \"Dr. H. Anonymous\", later expanded to \"Dr. Henry Anonymous\", Fryer appeared on stage wearing a rubber joke shop face mask – which was sometimes described as a mask of Richard M. Nixon, but which was probably altered from its original state – a wig, and a baggy tuxedo and spoke through a microphone which distorted his voice. In 2002, Dr. Jack Drescher, then the head of the APA's Committee on Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Issues pointed out \"The irony ... that an openly homosexual psychiatrist had to wear a mask to protect his career. So the fact that someone would get up on stage, even in disguise, at the risk of professional denunciation or loss of job, it was not a small thing. Even in disguise, it was a very, very brave thing to do.\"\n\nAt the time of his speaking, Fryer was on the faculty of Temple University in Philadelphia, but did not have the security of tenure, so was in real danger of losing his position if he had been identified – he had already lost a residency at the University of Pennsylvania, and was later forced to leave a position on the staff of Friends Hospital because of his flamboyance; ironically the administrator who told him \"If you were gay and not flamboyant, we would keep you. If you were flamboyant and not gay we would keep you. But since you are both gay and flamboyant, we cannot keep you\" was, according to Fryer, in the front row at his 1972 appearance as Dr. Anonymous, never realizing that Anonymous was Fryer.\n\nDr. Fryer's speech began \"I am a homosexual. I am a psychiatrist\", and continued on to describe the lives of the many gay psychiatrists among the APA who had to hide their sexuality from their colleagues for fear of discrimination, and from fellow homosexuals owing to the disdain in which the psychiatric profession was held among the gay community. Fryer's speech also suggested ways in which gay psychiatrists could subtly and \"creatively\" challenge prejudice in their profession without disclosing their sexuality, and help gay patients adjust to a society that considered their sexual preferences a sign of psychopathology. There were reportedly more than 100 gay psychiatrists at the convention.\n\nAt least one other panelist agreed with Fryer and Kameny that the stance of the psychiatric establishment toward homosexuality was wrong. The APA's Vice President at the time, Dr. Judd Marmor – who would later become the association's president – said \"I must concede that psychiatry is prejudiced as has been charged. Psychiatric mores reflect the predominant social mores of the culture.\" He later wrote \"In a democratic society we recognize the rights of such individuals to have widely divergent religious preferences, as long as they do not attempt to force their beliefs on others who do not share them. Our attitudes toward divergent sexual preferences, however, are quite different, obviously because moral values – couched in 'medical' and 'scientific' rationalizations – are involved.\"\n\nAlso appearing on the panel were Dr. Kent Robinson, from Shepherd Pratt Psychiatric Hospital, and Robert Seidenberg.\n\nAfter the panel discussion, Fryer appeared for two hours on a local radio talk show as Dr. Anonymous with his voice disguised, broadcast, Fryer later said, from one of the gay bars in the area. Although some of his colleagues knew who he was, at the time of his speech and later, Fryer did not formally acknowledge having been Dr. Anonymous until the APA's 1994 convention in Philadelphia.\n\nHomosexuality was removed from the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual\" in 1973, a year after Fryer's speech – leading the now-defunct \"Philadelphia Bulletin\" to print the headline \"Homosexuals gain instant cure\" – and Fryer's speech has been cited as a key factor in persuading the psychiatric community to reach this decision. Gittings later said of it: \"His speech shook up psychiatry. He was the right person at the right time.\" Fryer himself later wrote in 1985, in the newsletter of the Association of Gay and Lesbian Psychiatrists, that it was \"something that had to be done\" and \"the central event in my career.\" \"I had been thrown out of a residency because I was gay. I lost a job because I was gay. ... It had to be said, but I couldn't do it as me. ... I was not yet full time on the [Temple] faculty. I am now tenured, and tenured by a chairman who knows I'm gay. That's how things have changed.\"\n\nIronically, since the removal of homosexuality from the \"DSM\", APA meetings have been disrupted by \"ex-gay\" activists seeking to have homosexuality classified as a mental disorder again. According to Drescher: \"Every year, we get a group of people who ... ask for homosexuality to be put back in the manual. ... They're, interestingly, the only group who does it. Every other group wants their diagnoses taken out; they want theirs back in.\"\n\nFryer became a professor at Temple, both of psychiatry, and of family and community medicine. He specialized in the treatment of drug and alcohol addiction as well as in death and bereavement. Sometime after 1973, he began treating gay men with AIDS who were dying, seeing them in his home office rather than in his practice at Temple, for reasons of patient confidentiality. He was involved in setting up Physicians in Transition, Temple's Family Life Development Center, the APA's International Work Group on Death, Dying, and Bereavement and the Philadelphia AIDS Task Force. In 1980, at the behest of Dame Cicely Saunders, founder of London's St Christopher's Hospice, he took a sabbatical from Temple and helped to restructure the hospice's education department. He retired from Temple in 2000.\n\nIn 2002, it was reported that Fryer had accepted a position at a hospital in the Northern Territory of Australia, but he never took up that post.\n\nFryer was also a musician, playing the organ. For 30 years was the choirmaster of St. Peter's Church in the Germantown neighborhood of Philadelphia where he lived; he also played the organ for Temple University graduations.\n\nFryer was being treated for diabetes and pulmonary sarcoidosis, and eventually died from gastrointestinal bleeding and aspiration pneumonia in 2003.\n\nFryer received a \"Distinguished Alumnus\" aware from Vanderbilt University in 2002, and in that same year was awarded a Distinguished Service Award from the Association of Gay and Lesbian Psychiatrists (AGLP), now the Association of LGBTQ Psychiatrists. After his death, the AGLP, along with the American Psychiatric Association, endowed the APA's \"John E. Fryer, M.D., Award\" in his memory, to honor a person whose work has contributed to the mental health of sexual minorities, and includes both a lecture at the Fall conference of the ALGP and an honorarium. The first two recipients of the award were Barbara Gittings and Frank Kameny.\n\nFryer's papers are archived at the Historical Society of Pennsylvania in over 200 boxes, and are available to the public. Some documents have been digitized and are available online.\n\nOn October 3, 2017, a historic marker was unveiled in Philadelphia's \"Gayborhood\", across the street from the Historical Society. It reads: \n\nJOHN E. FRYER. M.D.<br>(1937-2003)Temple professor and psychiatrist Fryer, disguised as \"Dr. Anonymous,\" spoke against the American Psychiatric Association's classification of homosexuality as a mental illness at the APA's 1972 annual meeting. Fryer's testimony convinced the APA to declassify homosexuality as a mental disorder in 1973, ending treatments such as chemical castration, electric shock therapy, and lobotomy and paving the way for advances in LGBT civil rights.\n\nIn May 2016, a play by Ain Gordon, \"217 Boxes of Dr. Henry Anonymous\" – based on Gordon's research as an \"embedded artist\" at the Historical Society of Pennsylvania (HSP), where Fryer's papers are archived – premiered at the Painted Bride Art Center in Philadelphia. The play explores Fryer and the circumstances around his 1972 appearance at the APA convention through monologues by three people who knew him: Alfred A. Gross, the Executive Director of the New York City-based George W. Henry Foundation, a social charity which helped homosexual men who had gotten into trouble with the law; Katherine M. Luder, Fryer's long-time secretary; and Fryer's father, Ercel Ray Fryer. Gordon's entire project – including video of all the public events prior to the presentation of the play, the play's script and video of a performance – will be added to the Fryer archive at HSP. In May 2018, the play was revived by the Equality Forum for two weeks of performances at the Baryshnikov Arts Center in New York City, to coincide with the American Psychiatric Association's annual meeting.\n\n\nExplanatory notes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "41895337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41895337", "title": "Lampshades made from human skin", "text": "Lampshades made from human skin\n\nThere are two notable allegations of lampshades made from human skin. After World War II it was alleged that Nazis had made lampshades from murdered concentration camp inmates. In the 1950s, murderer Ed Gein, possibly influenced by the stories about the Nazis, made a lampshade from the skin of one of his victims.\n\nThe display of the flayed skin of defeated enemies has a long history. In ancient Assyria, the flaying of defeated enemies and dissidents was common practice. The Assyrians would leave the skin to tan on their city walls.\n\nThere have been several claims that the binding of some ancient and medieval books may be made of human skin. Allegedly, a 13th-century bible and a text of the Decretals were bound in human skin. Along with this hearsay, there are reports of copies of the 1793 French Constitution being written on human skin and 19th-century anatomy textbooks being symbolically bound in skin.\n\nAfter the defeat of Nazi Germany, claims circulated that Ilse Koch, wife of the commandant of Buchenwald concentration camp, had possessed lampshades made of human skin, and had specifically tattooed prisoners killed in order to use their skin for this purpose. After her conviction for war crimes, General Lucius D. Clay, the interim military governor of the American Zone in Germany, reduced her sentence to four years' prison on the grounds \"there was no convincing evidence that she had selected Nazi concentration camp inmates for extermination in order to secure tattooed skins, or that she possessed any articles made of human skin\".\n\nJean Edward Smith in his biography, \"Lucius D. Clay, an American Life\", reported that the general had maintained that the leather lamp shades were really made out of goat skin. The book quotes a statement made by General Clay years later:\n\nThe charges were made once more when she was rearrested, but again were found to be groundless. Journalist Mark Jacobson claims to be in possession of this lampshade, but those claims are disputed.\n\nEd Gein was a killer and body snatcher, active in the 1950s, who made trophies from corpses he stole from a local graveyard. When he was finally arrested, a search of the premises revealed, among other disturbing artifacts, a lampshade made out of human skin. Gein appears to have been influenced by the then-current stories about the Nazis collecting body parts in order to make lampshades and other items.\n\nIn a 1970 episode of the first series of \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\" sketch \"Mr. Hitler and the Minehead by-election\", Adolf Hitler (played by John Cleese) says, \"If he opens his big mouth again ... it's lampshade time!\"\n\nIn the 1973 London Weekend Television drama \"The Death of Adolf Hitler\", Doctor Karl Gebhardt (played by Ray McAnally) claims to Hitler (Frank Finlay) that the lampshade in his office in the Führerbunker is made of human skin. Hitler is disgusted and flies into a rage, violently throwing the lamp away, showing Hitler's cognitive dissonance between his personal morality and the twisted inhumanity of his orders.\n\nIn 1995, August Kreis III was ejected from the set of \"The Jerry Springer Show\" after telling the host \"Your relatives – weren't they all turned into soap or lampshades?... I've got your mom in the trunk of my car\".\n\nThe song \"Skinned\" from the 1995 Blind Melon album \"Soup\" is about Ed Gein and contains the lyrics \"I'll make a lampshade of durable skin.\"\n\nA human lampshade appears in Ken Russell's 2007 short satire \"A Kitten for Hitler\". In the film, Lenny, an American Jewish boy, who has a swastika-shaped birthmark, tries to soften Hitler's heart by giving him a kitten, but when Hitler sees the birthmark, he has Eva Braun kill Lenny to make him into a lampshade for their bedside table lamp. Near the end of the film, in what appears to be an act of God, the swastika transforms into the Star of David.\n\nIn 2010 author Mark Jacobson published \"\". In it he described how after Hurricane Katrina he uncovered a lamp which he believed to be made of human skin, and which may have come from a Nazi concentration camp. Initial flawed DNA testing appeared to show this was the case, but later more sophisticated testing proved it was cow skin.\n\nIn 2012, a human-skin lamp appeared in the \"I Am Anne Frank\" episode of \"\".\n"}
{"id": "36545102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36545102", "title": "Leslie MacDill", "text": "Leslie MacDill\n\nColonel Leslie MacDill was a United States Army Air Corps officer. MacDill Air Force Base near Tampa, Florida is named in his honor. Colonel MacDill was one of aviation’s early pioneers.\n\nColonel MacDill was born at Monmouth, Illinois on 18 February 1889. Following his graduation in 1909 from Hanover College with an A.B. degree, and from the University of Indiana in 1911 with an A.M. degree, he was commissioned from civilian life as a Second Lieutenant, Coast Artillery Corps on 13 April 1912.\n\nHe served with the 6th Company, Coast Artillery Corps from 10 December 1912, until his detail in 1914 in the Aviation Section, Signal Corps. Upon completion of his flying training at the Signal Corps Aviation School at San Diego, California, he was rated a Junior Military Aviator on 2 July 1915, which automatically advanced him to the rank of First Lieutenant. He was promoted to Captain on 15 May 1917; to Major 1 July 1920; to Lieutenant Colonel 1 August 1935; and to Colonel on 26 August 1936.\n\nColonel MacDill died as the result of an airplane crash on the morning of 9 November 1938, in Washington D.C. The accident occurred several minutes after his take off from Bolling Field in a BC-1 aircraft.\n\nAccounts pieced together from numerous eyewitnesses indicated that something went wrong with the motor. Colonel MacDill first tried to get back to Bolling Field, and then with death staring him in the face, aimed his plane for a narrow space between two houses. The descending plane cut down telephone and power wires, knocked down a pole, clipped off tree limbs, plunged to the ground and burst into flames. Colonel MacDill and his passenger Private Joseph G. Gloxner were killed instantly.\n\n"}
{"id": "21301772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21301772", "title": "List of bottling incidents by year", "text": "List of bottling incidents by year\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56103476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56103476", "title": "List of youngest killers", "text": "List of youngest killers\n\nThis is a list of the youngest documented killers.\n"}
{"id": "7868372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7868372", "title": "Marco Enrico Bossi", "text": "Marco Enrico Bossi\n\nMarco Enrico Bossi (April 25, 1861 in Salò – February 20, 1925) was an Italian organist, composer, improviser and pedagogue ().\n\nBossi was born in Salò, a town in the province of Brescia, Lombardy, into a family of musicians. His father, Pietro, was organist at Salò Cathedral, which has a one-manual organ built by Fratelli Serassi from 1865 (opus 684), which was restored in 2000/2001. He had two brothers, Costante Adolfo Bossi and Pietro Bossi.\n\nHe received his musical training at the Liceo Musicale in Bologna and the Milan Conservatory, where his teachers included Francesco Sangalli (piano), Amilcare Ponchielli (composition) and Polibio Fumagalli (organ).\n\nIn 1881, Bossi became director of music and organist at Como Cathedral. Nine years later, he was appointed as professor of organ and harmony at Naples Conservatory. In addition, he held directorships at conservatories in Venice (1895–1901), Bologna (1902–1911) and Rome (1916–1923), where he established and implemented the standards of organ studies that are still used in Italy today. His notable pupils included Giulio Bas, Giacomo Benvenuti, Giorgio Federico Ghedini, and Gian Francesco Malipiero. Throughout his career, Bossi made numerous international organ recital tours, which brought him in contact with well-known colleagues such as César Franck, Marcel Dupré, Alexandre Guilmant, Joseph Bonnet, Camille Saint-Saëns, Charles M. Courboin, and Karl Straube.\nIn November 1924, Bossi embarked on a recital tour to New York and Philadelphia, where he made important appearances at Wanamaker's department stores in New York and in Philadelphia, where he played the Wanamaker Organ, the world's largest pipe organ. Bossi died unexpectedly at sea while returning from the United States on February 20, 1925, and was interred at Como.\n\nMarco Enrico Bossi wrote more than 150 works for various genres (orchestra, five operas, oratorios, choral and chamber music, as well as pieces for piano and organ). His catalog of compositions is still largely unknown, except for his organ works.\nAndrea Macinanti is recording Marco Enrico Bossi's complete organ works for Tactus label.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5402932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5402932", "title": "Megaspore", "text": "Megaspore\n\nMegaspores, also called macrospores, are a type of spore that is present in heterosporous plants. These plants have two spore types, megaspores and microspores. Generally speaking, the megaspore, or large spore, germinates into a female gametophyte, which produces egg cells. These are fertilized by sperm produced by the male gametophyte developing from the microspore. Heterosporous plants include the following:\n\n\nIn gymnosperms and flowering plants, the megaspore is produced inside the nucleus of the ovule. During megasporogenesis, a diploid precursor cell, the megasporocyte or megaspore mother cell, undergoes meiosis to produce initially four haploid cells (the megaspores). Angiosperms exhibit three patterns of megasporogenesis: monosporic, bisporic, and tetrasporic, also known as the Polygonum type, the Alisma type, and the Drusa type, respectively. The monosporic pattern occurs most frequently (>70% of angiosperms) and is found in many economically and biologically important groups such as Brassicaceae (e.g., \"Arabidopsis\", \"Capsella\", \"Brassica\"), Gramineae (e.g., maize, rice, wheat), Malvaceae (e.g., cotton), Leguminoseae (e.g., beans, soybean), and Solanaceae (e.g., pepper, tobacco, tomato, potato, petunia).\n\nThis pattern is characterized by cell plate formation after meiosis 1 & 2, which results in four one-nucleate megaspores, of which three degenerate. The bisporic pattern is characterized by cell plate formation only after meiosis 1, and results in two two-nucleate megaspores, of which one degenerates. The tetrasporic pattern is characterized by cell plates failing to form after either meiosis 1 or 2, and results in one four-nucleate megaspore. Therefore, each pattern gives rise to a single functional megaspore which contains one, two, or four meiotic nuclei, respectively. The megaspore then undergoes megagametogenesis to give rise to the female gametophyte.\n\nAfter megasporogenesis, the megaspore develops into the female gametophyte (the embryo sac) in a process called megagametogenesis. The process of megagametogenesis varies depending on which pattern of megasporogenesis occurred. Some species, such as \"Tridax trilobata\", \"Ehretia laevis\", and \"Alectra thomsoni\", can undergo different patterns of megasporogenesis and therefore different patterns of megagametogenesis. \nIf the monosporic pattern occurred, the single nucleus undergoes mitosis three times, producing an eight-nucleate cell. These eight nuclei are arranged into two groups of four. These groups both send a nucleus to the center of the cell; these become the polar nuclei. Depending on the species, these nuclei fuse together before or upon fertilization of the central cell. The three nuclei at the end of the cell near the micropylar become the egg apparatus, with an egg cell in the center and two synergids. At the other end of the cell, a cell wall forms around the nuclei and forms the antipodals. Therefore, the resulting embryo sac is a seven-celled structure consisting of one central cell, one egg cell, two synergid cells, and three antipodal cells.\nThe bisporic and tetrasporic patterns undergo varying processes and result in varying embryo sacs as well. In \"Lilium\" which has a tetrasporic pattern, the central cell of the embryo sac is 4N. Therefore, upon fertilization the endosperm will be 5N rather than the typical 3N.\n"}
{"id": "19509478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19509478", "title": "Multibrot set", "text": "Multibrot set\n\nIn mathematics, a multibrot set is the set of values in the complex plane whose absolute value remains below some finite value throughout iterations by a member of the general monic univariate polynomial family of recursions. The name is a portmanteau of multiple and Mandelbrot set.\n\nwhere \"d\" ≥ 2. The exponent \"d\" may be further generalized to negative and fractional values.\n\nSeveral graphics are available but, as far as can be verified, none of these have been taken a step further to display a 3-D stack of the various stages so that the evolution of the general shape can be seen from other than vertically above.\n\nThe case of\n\nis the classic Mandelbrot set from which the name is derived.\n\nThe sets for other values of \"d\" also show fractal images when they are plotted on the complex plane.\n\nEach of the examples of various powers \"d\" shown below is plotted to the same scale. Values of \"c\" belonging to the set are black. Values of \"c\" that have unbounded value under recursion, and thus do not belong in the set, are plotted in different colours, that show as contours, depending on the number of recursions that caused a value to exceed a fixed magnitude in the Escape Time algorithm.\n\nThe example is the original Mandelbrot set. The examples for are often called \"multibrot sets\". These sets include the origin and have fractal perimeters, with rotational symmetry.\n\nWhen \"d\" is negative the set surrounds but does not include the origin. There is interesting complex behaviour in the contours between the set and the origin, in a star-shaped area with rotational symmetry. The sets appear to have a circular perimeter, however this is just an artifact of the fixed maximum radius allowed by the Escape Time algorithm, and is not a limit of the sets that actually extend in all directions to infinity.\n\nAn alternative method is to render the exponent along the vertical axis. This requires either fixing the real or the imaginary value, and rendering the remaining value along the horizontal axis. The resulting set rises vertically from the origin in a narrow column to infinity. Magnification reveals increasing complexity. The first prominent bump or spike is seen at an exponent of 2, the location of the traditional Mandelbrot set at its cross-section. The third image here renders on a plane that is fixed at a 45-degree angle between the real and imaginary axes.\n\nAll the above images are rendered using an Escape Time algorithm that identifies points outside the set in a simple way. Much greater fractal detail is revealed by plotting the Lyapunov exponent, as shown by the example below. The Lyapunov exponent is the error growth-rate of a given sequence. First calculate the iteration sequence with \"N\" iterations, then calculate the exponent as\n\nand if the exponent is negative the sequence is stable. The white pixels in the picture are the parameters \"c\" for which the exponent is positive aka unstable. The colours show the periods of the cycles which the orbits are attracted to. All points colored dark-blue (outside) are attracted by a fixed point, all points in the middle (lighter blue) are attracted by a period 2 cycle and so on.\n\nThe complex value \"z\" has coordinates (\"x\",\"y\") on the complex plane and is raised to various powers inside the iteration loop by codes shown in this table. Powers not shown in the table can be obtained by concatenating the codes shown.\n"}
{"id": "48293043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48293043", "title": "Murder of Kori Lamaster", "text": "Murder of Kori Lamaster\n\nKori JoAnne Lamaster was a formerly unidentified American murder victim who was found on January 29, 1994. She was reburied in an unmarked grave at Soquel Cemetery. Lamaster's body remained unidentified for nineteen years until the comparison of familial DNA and a finger print card revealed her identity. Until then, she was referred to as Pogonip Jane by investigators and media.\n\nThe decomposed remains of a white female were found in a shallow grave near a homeless campsite on January 19, 1994 in Pogonip Park in Santa Cruz, California. It was discovered by two hikers looking for mushrooms.\n\nThe victim was identified as being in her late teens with brown hair cut short and pink fingernails. Her death was estimated to have occurred a couple of weeks prior to the discovery; the cause of death was ruled to be bludgeoning with a metal object most likely a pipe that had crushed her skull. Due to advanced decomposition, it was hard to ascertain her facial features. A tiny heart was discovered tattooed between her left thumb and index finger. Her teeth had a few cavities that had been filled in with porcelain. Isotopic hair analysis revealed she had traveled between Santa Barbara and Santa Cruz (she lived in Pacifica) prior to her death.\n\nThe Santa Cruz Police Department got a fresh impetus to investigate the case when its original investigator Butch Baker was murdered in an unrelated crime. They decided to work towards solving the case in Baker's honor.\n\nStrategies taken subsequently in an attempt to arrive at an identification included the creation of a clay model reconstruction based on the skull of the victim.\n\nLamaster's family didn't file a missing person report for her until 2007. The reason for the delay in filing a report was not revealed due to privacy reasons. A DNA sample from her biological mother was submitted and the State Department of Justice lab announced a familial match in October 2013 with DNA taken from the victim's body that had been entered into their system earlier.\n\nContact with Lamaster's sister in the state of Washington provided a fingerprint card taken when Lamaster was young which was then used to match prints taken during her autopsy. A father and son who had been seen travelling with Lamaster have been identified as persons of interest. The son has since died, while the father, Wayne White, resided in eastern Tennessee for a period but has since also passed away.\n\n"}
{"id": "3630374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3630374", "title": "Neural computation", "text": "Neural computation\n\nNeural computation is the hypothetical information processing performed by networks of neurons. Neural computation is affiliated with the philosophical tradition known as Computational Theory of Mind, also referred to as computationalism, which advances the thesis that neural computation explains cognition. The first persons to propose an account of neural activity as being computational was Warren McCullock and Walter Pitts in their seminal 1943 paper, A Logical Calculus of the Ideas Immanent in Nervous Activity. There are three general branches of computationalism, including classicism, connectionism, and computational neuroscience. All three branches agree that cognition is computation, however they disagree on what sorts of computations constitute cognition. The classicism tradition believes that computation in the brain is digital, analogous with digital computing. Both connectionism and computational neuroscience do not require that the computations which realize cognition are necessarily digital computations. However, the two branches greatly disagree upon which sorts of experimental data should be used to construct explanatory models of cognitive phenomena. Connectionists rely upon behavioral evidence to construct models to explain cognitive phenomenon, whereas computational neuroscience leverages neuroanatomical and neurophysiological information to construct mathematical models which explain cognition.\n\nWhen comparing the three main traditions of the computational theory of mind, as well as the different possible forms of computation in the brain, it is helpful to define what we mean by computation in a general sense. Computation is the processing of vehicles, otherwise known as variables or entities, according to a set of rules. A rule in this sense is simply an instruction for executing a manipulation on the current state of the variable, in order to produce an specified output. In other words, a rule dictates which output to produce given a certain input to the computing system. A computing system is a mechanism whose components must be functionally organized to process the vehicles in accordance with the established set of rules. The types of vehicles processed by a computing system determines which type of computations it performs. Traditionally, in cognitive science there have been two proposed types of computation related to neural activity - digital and analog, with the vast majority of theoretical work incorporating a digital understanding of cognition. Computing systems which perform digital computation are functionally organized to execute operations on strings of digits with respect to the type and location of the digit on the string. It has been argued that neural spike train signaling implements some form of digital computation, since neural spikes may be considered as discrete units or digits, like 0 or 1 - the neuron either fires an action potential or it does not. Accordingly, neural spike trains could be seen as strings of digits. Alternatively, analog computing systems perform manipulations on non-discrete, irreducibly continuous variables, that is, entities which vary continuously as a function of time. These sorts of operations are characterized by systems of differential equations.\n\nNeural computation can be studied for example by building models of neural computation.\n\nThere is a scientific journal dedicated to this subject, \"Neural Computation\".\n\nArtificial neural networks (ANN) is subfield of the research area machine learning. Work on ANNs has been somewhat inspired by knowledge of neural computation.\n"}
{"id": "233180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233180", "title": "Recalcitrant seed", "text": "Recalcitrant seed\n\nRecalcitrant seeds (subsequently known as unorthodox seeds) are seeds that do not survive drying and freezing during ex-situ conservation and vice versa. By and large, these seeds cannot resist the effects of drying or temperatures less than 10 °C; thus, they cannot be stored for long periods like orthodox seeds because they can lose their viability. Plants that produce recalcitrant seeds include avocado, mango, mangosteen, lychee, cocoa, rubber tree, some horticultural trees, aquatic plants, such as \"Nymphaea caerulea,\" and several plants used in traditional medicine, such as species of \"Virola\" and \"Pentaclethra\". Generally speaking, most tropical pioneer species have orthodox seeds but many climax species have recalcitrant or intermediate seeds.\n\nThe two main mechanisms of action of damage to recalcitrant seeds are desiccation effect on the intracellular structures and the effect of metabolic damage from the formation of toxic chemicals such as free radicals. An example of the first type of damage would be found in some recalcitrant nontropical hardwood seeds, specifically the acorns of recalcitrant oaks, which can be stored in a nonfrozen state for up to two years provided that precautions be taken against drying. These seeds showed deterioration of cell membrane lipids and proteins after as few as 3–4 days of drying. Other seeds such as those of the sweet chestnut (\"Castanea sativa\") show oxidative damage resulting from uncontrolled metabolism occurring during the drying process.\n\n"}
{"id": "4327956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4327956", "title": "Robert Cochrane (favourite)", "text": "Robert Cochrane (favourite)\n\nRobert Cochrane (possibly died 1482) is said to have been an architect or mason who lived in the reign of King James III of Scotland and who became a royal favourite. His influence over the king is said to have incurred the wrath of the aristocracy, culminating in a \"coup\" in which he was killed.\n\nThere exists a good deal of controversy about the accuracy of the received story of his influence on the king, linked to broader issues about the reign of James III. These issues concern the theme of a king taking advice from low-born favourites rather than from established noble councillors.\n\nThe traditional view is that James was a cultured man in the context of his time, but otherwise had some serious character flaws, a weak king and a dilettante who surrounded himself with a group of talented but low-born favourites. Cochrane was the most important of these favourites. He is said to have designed the Great Hall at Stirling Castle, and perhaps that at Falkland. To some extent he governed the country during the 1470s. He is said to have advised the king to debase the coinage in order to raise cash. He was opposed by the king's younger brothers, Alexander Stewart, 1st Duke of Albany and John Stewart, Earl of Mar. Mar was arrested and imprisoned, dying shortly thereafter; Albany escaped and gathered support in England. The king is said to have given Cochrane the title of Earl of Mar after his brother's death, though no record of this survives.\n\nCochrane's downfall came during an invasion by an English army led by the king's younger brother, the Duke of Albany, and the Duke of Gloucester, the future King Richard III of England. Albany had promised to give part of Scotland to England in exchange for being placed on the throne. A cabal of aristocrats, led by Archibald Douglas, 5th Earl of Angus, decided that they must get rid of Cochrane and the other favourites in order to secure the Scottish crown. Angus chose to \"bell the cat\", as he put it. Cochrane and the king's other favourites were with the king's army at Lauder Bridge when a group of nobles refused to continue south to meet the enemy. Angus led the way by arresting Cochrane. The group then detained the king himself and hanged all the favourites from a bridge.\n\nIn the late 20th century much of this came to be questioned. Some historians have been more sympathetic to James III, seeing him as a cultured man in the relatively crude atmosphere of the Scottish nobility at that time, and defended him against some criticisms. The leading Scottish historian Norman Macdougall published a revisionist biography of James III in which he argues that, far from being a weak king, he was actually something of a tyrant. Macdougall dismissed the \"favourites of low birth\" as the invention of chroniclers in the next century whose knowledge of the facts was poor. He argues that all we can say for sure is that James had some dealings with an architect or mason called Cochrane, and the rest is later invention. Macdougall found two records of a Thomas Cochrane; one reference suggests that Cochrane was an usher of the king's chamber door, and the other that a Thomas Cochrane had forfeited the lands of Cousland near Dalkeith. Cochrane of Cousland, Macdougall concludes, may have been the usher and met his end at Lauder Bridge. Macdougall also follows the development of the story in later writers and points particularly to William Drummond of Hawthornden's \"History of the 5 Jameses\" for setting the final elaboration of the story. Macdougall argues that Hawthornden increased the status of Cochrane to that of an architect in order to rescue the king's reputation.\n\nThis view is not universally accepted by historians. This pattern of events, a royal favourite being assassinated by jealous nobles, occurred several times in late mediaeval and early modern Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "21850266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21850266", "title": "Rudolf Sanzin", "text": "Rudolf Sanzin\n\nRudolf Sanzin (4 June 1874 – 2 June 1922) was an Austrian engineer and locomotive designer.\n\nRudolf Sanzin was born in Mürzzuschlag, in the province of Styria, Austria on 4 June 1874. His father was an official with the Austrian Southern Railway or \"Südbahn\". After completing his A levels (\"Matura\") he studied at the Graz University of Technology until 1900. The following year he was himself given a job with the \"Südbahn\", but did his doctorate in 1904 at Graz (with a dissertation entitled \"Investigations into the performance of a locomotive and confirmation of the optimum loading of the same\").\n\nHis subsequent publications caught the attention of the railway ministry, with the result that Karl Gölsdorf recruited him to the ministry, where he worked as a design engineer. Later on, he became the head of the department for the design of electric locomotives in the then \"Electrification Office\".\n\nHe obtained post-doctoral qualifications at Graz in 1906 and at the Vienna University of Technology in 1909, where he was appointed as a reader in 1919.\n\nIn addition to his career work, he was also an avid artist and produced numerous drawings and water colours. This activity led however to his death: whilst on holiday in Trieste he died as a result of poisoning from one of his paints on 2 June 1922.\n\nHe rests in a grave in Vienna's central cemetery, no. 16B-9-25. In 1942 the Sanzingasse street in Vienna's Favoriten district was named in his honour.\n\n\nHR Ing. Albrecht: \"Dr. Rudolf Sanzin †\", In: Zeitschrift des österreichischen Ingenieur- und Architektenverein, 1922, ISSN 0372-9605\n"}
{"id": "20093078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20093078", "title": "SRT1720", "text": "SRT1720\n\nSRT1720 is an experimental drug that was studied by Sirtris Pharmaceuticals intended as a small-molecule activator of the sirtuin subtype SIRT1. The compound has been studied in animals, but safety and efficacy in humans have not been established.\n\nIn animal models of obesity and diabetes SRT1720 was found to improve insulin sensitivity and lower plasma glucose levels in fat, muscle and liver tissue, and increase mitochondrial and metabolic function. In mice rendered obese and diabetic by feeding a high-fat, high-sugar diet, a study performed at the National Institute of Aging found that feeding chow infused with the highest dose of SRT1720 beginning at one year of age increased mean lifespan by 18%, and maximum lifespan by 5%, as compared to other short-lived obese, diabetic mice; however, treated animals still lived substantially shorter lives than normal-weight mice fed normal chow with no drug. In a later study, SRT1720 increased mean lifespan of obese, diabetic mice by 21.7%, similar to the earlier study, but there was no effect on maximum lifespan in this study. In normal-weight mice fed a standard rodent diet, SRT1720 increased mean lifespan by just 8.8%, and again had no effect on maximum lifespan.\n\nSince the discovery of SRT1720, the claim that this compound is a SIRT1 activator has been questioned\nand further defended.\n\nAlthough SRT1720 is not currently undergoing clinical development, a related compound, SRT2104, is currently in clinical development for metabolic diseases.\n\n"}
{"id": "21538760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538760", "title": "Sarah Lincoln Grigsby", "text": "Sarah Lincoln Grigsby\n\nSarah Lincoln Grigsby (February 10, 1807 – January 20, 1828) was the older sister of the 16th President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln, and cared for him when they were young.\n\nSarah Lincoln was born in Elizabethtown, Kentucky, to Thomas Lincoln and Nancy Lincoln in 1807. After their mother's death in 1818, Sarah was in charge of taking care of the house, her brother Abe and their cousin Dennis Hanks, who was living with them. Thomas married Sarah Bush Johnston in 1819, and brought her home to be a stepmother to his children.\n\nIn August 1826, Sarah Lincoln married Aaron Grigsby (1801–1831). She died on January 20, 1828, while giving birth to a stillborn boy, subsequently named George. Her brother Abraham blamed the death of his sister on the failure of Grigsby to send for a doctor. She was buried in a small cemetery next to the Little Pigeon Baptist Church, a Primitive Baptist Church attended by the Lincoln family and where her father Thomas was a trustee. The church and Sarah's gravesite are located within what was the Little Pigeon Creek Community and is now Lincoln State Park in Indiana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "658686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=658686", "title": "Sinistral and dextral", "text": "Sinistral and dextral\n\nSinistral and dextral, in some scientific fields, are the two types of chirality (\"handedness\") or relative direction.\n\nThe terms are derived from the Latin words for \"left\" (\"sinister\") and \"right\" (\"dexter\").\n\nOther disciplines have different terms (such as dextro- and laevo-rotary, in chemistry, or clockwise and anticlockwise in physics) or simply use left and right (as in anatomy).\n\nRelative direction and chirality are distinct concepts. Relative direction is from the point of view of the observer. A completely symmetrical object has a left and a right side, from the observer's point of view, if the top and bottom and direction of observation are defined. Chirality, however, is observer-independent: no matter how one looks at a right-hand screw thread, it remains different from a left-hand screw thread. Therefore, a symmetrical object has sinistral and dextral directions arbitrarily defined by the position of the observer, while an object that has chirality can have sinistral and dextral directions defined by characteristics of the object, no matter the position of the observer.\n\nIn geology the terms sinistral and dextral refer to the horizontal component of movement of blocks on either side of a fault or the sense of movement within a shear zone. These are terms of relative direction, as the movement of the blocks are described relative to each other when viewed from above. \nMovement is sinistral (left-handed) if the block on the other side of the fault moves to the left, or if straddling the fault the left side moves toward the observer.\nMovement is dextral (right-handed) if the block on the other side of the fault moves to the right, or if straddling the fault the right side moves toward the observer.\n\nBecause the coiled shells of gastropods are asymmetrical, they possess a quality called chirality, the \"handedness\" of an asymmetrical structure.\n\nOver 90%\nof gastropod species have dextral (right-handed) shells in their coiling. A small minority of species and genera are almost always sinistral (left-handed). A very few species show an even mixture of dextral and sinistral individuals (for example, \"Amphidromus perversus\").\n\nThe most obvious characteristic of flatfish, other than their flatness, is asymmetry because both eyes are on the same side of the head in the adult fish. In some families of flatfish, the eyes are always on the right side of the body (dextral or right-eyed flatfish), and in others, they are always on the left (sinistral or left-eyed flatfish). Primitive spiny turbots include equal numbers of right- and left-sided individuals, and are generally more symmetrical than other families.\n\n"}
{"id": "27316027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27316027", "title": "Sipho Jele", "text": "Sipho Jele\n\nSipho Jele was a member of the banned Swazi political party People's United Democratic Movement (Pudemo) as well as the Swaziland Agricultural and Plantations Workers Union (SAPWU), part of the Swaziland Federation of Trade Unions (SFTU). He died in police custody in Swaziland, after having been arrested on 1 May 2010, at the SFTU May Day celebrations, for having worn a T-shirt with a Pudemo logo. Sipho Jele was found hanging from the rafters of a toilet at the Sidvwashini Correctional facility where he was being held on 4 May.\n\nSipho Jele was a former employee at Swaziland's only pulp mill, and was studying engineering at the time of his death. He had been charged with high treason in a high-profile trial in 2006, accused of taking part in a bombing campaign, but was acquitted along with all the other accused.\n\nAccording to Sipho Jele's aunt, who had previously worked as a nurse for 30 years and who saw the body, there were several indications that he had not committed suicide as claimed by the Swazi police, including a swollen face, blood having come out of his nostrils, and the fact that he hadn't soiled himself – as is commonly the case with those who have hanged themselves. The police officers in whose custody Jele was claimed they didn't kill him, although they admitted to have broken protocol on several accounts when arresting and detaining Jele.\n\nThe Swazi regime has been much criticised in relation to Jele's death especially by Swazi democracy organisations, foreign unions such as Cosatu, and South African, American and Danish newspapers and websites, as well as NGOs.\n\nAn independent investigation into the cause of the death was promised on 7 May by the Prime Minister of Swaziland. According to evidence given by Manzini-based police officers at this inquest, Sipho Jele was taken out of his cell to be interrogated for hours, although the evidence given by police officers and jailers was conflicting on several points. The director of public prosecutions, Mumcy Dlamini, testified at the same trial that Jele had told him he feared being «tubed», i.e. assaulted and suffocated, by police and therefore had asked Dlamini to be transferred to Sidvwashini.\n\nSipho Jele's funeral was disrupted by around 500 heavily armed police. The police destroyed several pictures of Jele, as well as removing a Pudemo flag from the coffin, and then arrested and detain several of the mourners. The funeral was subsequently called off by Jele's family for fear of further arrests. The funeral finally took place on 22 May, this time with a strict dress code banning any politically motivated attire or political speeches, although some of those attending disregarded this.\n"}
{"id": "47805580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47805580", "title": "Suicide Behaviors Questionnaire-Revised", "text": "Suicide Behaviors Questionnaire-Revised\n\nThe Suicide Behaviors Questionnaire-Revised (SBQ-R) is a psychological self-report questionnaire designed to identify risk factors for suicide in children and adolescents between ages 13 and 18. The four-question test is filled out by the child and takes approximately five minutes to complete. The questionnaire has been found to be reliable and valid in recent studies. One study demonstrated that the SBQ-R had high internal consistency with a sample of university students. However, another body of research, which evaluated some of the most commonly used tools for assessing suicidal thoughts and behaviors in college-aged students, found that the SBQ-R and suicide assessment tools in general have very little overlap between them. One of the greatest strengths of the SBQ-R is that, unlike some other tools commonly used for suicidality assessment, it asks about future anticipation of suicidal thoughts or behaviors as well as past and present ones and includes a question about lifetime suicidal ideation, plans to commit suicide, and actual attempts.\n\nEach of the four questions addresses a specific risk factor: the first concerns presence of suicidal thoughts and attempts, the second concerns frequency of suicidal thoughts, the third concerns the threat level of suicidal attempts, and the fourth concerns likelihood of future suicidal attempts. The first item has often been used on its own in order to assign individuals to a suicidal and a non-suicidal control group for studies. Each question has an individual scale, and each response corresponds to a certain point value.\n\nA maximum score of 18 is possible on the SBQ-R, and the following responses to the 4 questions correspond to the following point values:\n\nA total score of 7 and higher in the general population and a total score of 8 and higher in patients with psychiatric disorders indicates significant risk of suicidal behavior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16870447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16870447", "title": "TL 9000", "text": "TL 9000\n\nTL 9000 is a quality management practice designed by the QuEST Forum in 1998. It was created to focus on supply chain directives throughout the international telecommunications industry, including the USA. As with ISO/TS 16949 for the automotive industry and AS9000 for the aerospace industry, TL 9000 specializes the generic ISO 9001 to meet the needs of one industrial sector, which for TL 9000 is the information and communications technology (ICT)—extending from service providers through ICT equipment manufacturers through the suppliers and contractors and subcontractors that provide electronic components and software components to those ICT equipment manufacturers.\n\nTL 9000 is defined by two documents:\nReports on defect tracking and other measurements at various levels of granularity are accumulated by TL 9000 compliant facilities of certified organizations by the University of Texas at Dallas, which is the official TL 9000 administrator. These reports are provided at no additional charge to TL 9000 member companies and for an additional fee to TL 9000 Liaison members and non-members. Generally, these measurement data permit a service provider to compare the defect rates among various equipment manufacturers and against each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "47817624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47817624", "title": "The Greatest Story Ever Told (Aqua Teen Hunger Force Forever)", "text": "The Greatest Story Ever Told (Aqua Teen Hunger Force Forever)\n\n\"The Greatest Story Ever Told\" is the series finale of the animated television series \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" (under the alternative title, \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force Forever\"). It is the ninth episode of the eleventh season and the 139th episode of the series overall. In the episode Frylock and Carl become immortal after using special \"Ceaseless\" shampoo, while Master Shake and Meatwad seek immortality through religion.\n\nSeries creators were not made aware of the cancellation of the series until half way through the final season – regardless, they were still able to make a finale that they felt \"does justice\" to the show. The episode immediately preceding this one, \"The Last One Forever and Ever (For Real This Time) (We Fucking Mean It)\", was falsely promoted as the series finale and aired on August 23, 2015. \"The Greatest Story Ever Told\" was then quietly released online on August 26, 2015 as a hidden Easter egg on the Adult Swim website. It later made its television debut in the United States on Cartoon Network's late night programming block Adult Swim on August 30, 2015, with very little promotion and was listed as a rerun of \"Rabbot\" on most television listings. This episode has received positive reception and its television debut was the second highest-rated episode from the season. This episode has been made available for digital purchase.\n\nMaster Shake and Meatwad are watching a video of Shake photobombing clams from the previous weekend on television. Shake turns off the television and announces that he is, in fact, immortal. He then proceeds to pull out a book called \"The Bibble\" which he refers to as the Bible. Shake becomes angered when Meatwad corrects him on his error and demands he kneel down and pray to the \"Almighty Jimmy\", as part of his religion. Frylock enters the room and questions Shake's religion, which promises immortality. Shake states that Frylock isn't eligible for his religion or immortality, before leaving the house with Meatwad. Frylock denounces immortality, before cutting to him washing his fries in Carl's pool with a bottle of \"Ceaseless\" shampoo.\n\nWhile Frylock is in the pool Carl comes to question him. Carl picks up the shampoo bottle and reads the label explaining that it gives the user immortality. Carl steals the bottle from Frylock and washes his own hair in his house against Frylock's wishes. Soon after Christopher Lambert abruptly enters Carl's house and explains that Frylock, Carl, and himself are all immortal. To prove this Lambert allows Carl to decapitate him on video. After Lambert successfully comes back to life after decapitation the three of them decide to make a viral internet video of themselves repeatedly committing suicide in different ways.\n\nMeanwhile, Shake and Meatwad are seen in a church alongside eleven other characters from the series, in an homage to \"The Last Supper\". Shake is dressed up as Jesus Christ and is severing his organs and blood for consumption. Frylock, Carl, and Lambert have entered the church and show their video to Meatwad, explaining to him that it is real. Shake in a paranoid state commands everyone in the church to shoot at Frylock, Carl and Lambert. Everyone in the church complies but are not successful due to the fact that the three of them being immortal. Two policemen enter the church and begin shooting several patrons to death, including Shake.\n\nAfter the shooting Frylock and Carl take Lambert to see a magic show by Unbelievable Ron, to help alleviate his boredom, which he had been expressing throughout the episode. During Ron's performance he accidentally kills his assistant by cutting her in half. Ron uses his powers to turn witnesses in the audience into birds, including Lambert. During the commotion the two police officers return and arrest Frylock and Carl for the murder of Lambert. 35 years in the future Meatwad is visiting Frylock in prison. Frylock explains that Meatwad needs to track down Lambert (in the form of five white birds) to get him and Carl exonerated. Meatwad responds by pulling out a bucket of fried chicken, which annoys Frylock. As the on-screen closing credits start, Frylock explains that Meatwad can use the remaining shampoo to become immortal himself. Meatwad asks if they would be on TV forever and Frylock confidently answers yes, before the screen abruptly cuts to the Williams Street production card.\n\nThe fourth wall is broken in the post-credits scene were the Aqua Teens are seen in their living room with Carl watching the episode itself on television. Shake, Carl and Frylock each express disappointment in the episode. Meatwad optimistically suggests doing another joke in the show's final seconds, before the screen abruptly cuts to a message stating the episode was made in Georgia (which was used throughout the eleventh season and regularly in other productions made in Georgia), ending the series.\n\n\"The Greatest Story Ever Told\" was written and directed by series creators Dave Willis and Matt Maiellaro who wrote and directed every episode of the series. This is the final episode of \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\". It features a guest appearance from Lavell Crawford, who reprised his role of Unbelievable Ron, from the season ten episode \"Merlo Sauvignon Blanco\". This episode also features the song \"F-Off\", which Maiellaro had originally written and performed for his other Adult Swim series \"12 oz. Mouse\".\n\nIn 2015, the series was cancelled by Adult Swim after 15 years, against the wishes of Willis and Maiellaro, who would have preferred to have the series continue. Willis and Maiellaro were first told about the cancellation by people from the animation studio. By the time they were told about the cancellation they were already done producing about half of the episodes from the final season. Regardless of the timing of the news Wills stated they were still able to produce this finale, that Willis says \"does justice to the series\" and is \"worthy of the show\".\n\nIn 2017, Adult Swim was asked why they don't make more episodes, to which they responded \"we might\" with a bump. Willis also expressed interest in doing a Kickstarter to fund \"Death Fighter\", a scrapped sequel to \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film for Theaters\".\n\nThis is the final project C. Martin Croker worked on for Adult Swim before his death on September 17, 2016. Croker had worked on multiple shows and projects for Cartoon Network and Adult Swim, dating back to the launch of Cartoon Network in the early 1990s.\n\nThe previous episode, \"The Last One Forever and Ever (For Real This Time) (We Fucking Mean It)\", was falsely promoted as the series finale and originally aired on August 23, 2015 as scheduled. Willis and Maiellaro have referred to \"The Last One Forever and Ever (For Real This Time) (We Fucking Mean It)\" as the series finale in various press statements and interviews. The episode also features a double-length run-time and a tone common in television series finales.\n\n\"The Greatest Story Ever Told\" was quietly released as a hidden Easter egg on the Adult Swim website on August 26, 2015, three days after the premiere of \"The Last One Forever and Ever (For Real This Time) (We Fucking Mean It)\". Adult Swim made the link to the episode on their website as a fake ad for career opportunities, on Facebook as a fake ad for eggs, and on Twitter as an ad for special goggles. The episode was exclusively sponsored by the video game \"\".\n\n\"The Greatest Story Ever Told\" first aired on television in the United States on Cartoon Network's late night programming block Adult Swim on August 30, 2015. The television airing had virtually no promotion, with the exception of a trailer for \"Destiny: The Taken King\" mentioning an upcoming \"secret\" episode of \"Aqua Teen\". The original television airing of this episode was falsely listed as a rerun of the pilot episode, \"Rabbot\", on most television listings. This episode has since been properly listed on television listings in subsequent airings after the night it originally aired.\n\nIn its original American television broadcast on August 30, 2015, \"The Greatest Story Ever Told\" was watched by 1.237 million viewers. On cable it was ranked No. 1 in its time slot. It was the second highest rated episode of the season behind \"The Last One Forever and Ever (For Real This Time) (We Fucking Mean It)\", which was watched by 1.590 million viewers in its original debut.\n\nKevin Johnson of \"The A.V. Club\" said that the episode was \"fairly funny\" and was disappointed that Master Shake died in the shootout. He also stated that it would be \"pretty great\" if the series were to continue as an online series of \"random events\".\n\nThis episode, along with the rest of the eleventh season, is available in HD and SD for digital purchase on iTunes, Google Play, Amazon Video, and Microsoft.\n"}
{"id": "2113007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113007", "title": "The Story of My Experiments with Truth", "text": "The Story of My Experiments with Truth\n\nThe Story of My Experiments with Truth is the autobiography of Mohandas K. Gandhi, covering his life from early childhood through to 1921. It was written in weekly instalments and published in his journal \"Navjivan\" from 1925 to 1929. Its English translation also appeared in installments in his other journal \"Young India\". It was initiated at the insistence of Swami Anand and other close co-workers of Gandhi, who encouraged him to explain the background of his public campaigns. In 1999, the book was designated as one of the \"100 Best Spiritual Books of the 20th Century\" by a committee of global spiritual and religious authorities.\n\nThis section is written by Mahadev Desai who translated the book from Gujarati to English in 1940. In this preface Desai notes that the book was originally published in two volumes, the first in 1927 and second in 1929. He also mentions that the original was priced at and had a run of five editions by the time of the writing of his preface. 50,000 copies had been sold in Gujarati but since the English edition was expensive it prevented Indians from purchasing it. Desai notes the need to bring out a cheaper English version. He also mentions that the translation has been revised by an English scholar who did not want his name to be published. Chapters XXIX-XLIII of Part V were translated by Desai's friend and colleague Pyarelal.\n\nThe introduction is written by Gandhi himself mentioning how he has resumed writing his autobiography at the insistence of Jeramdas, a fellow prisoner in Yerwada Central Jail with him. He mulls over the question a friend asked him about writing an autobiography, deeming it a Western practice, something \"nobody does in the east\". Gandhi himself agrees that his thoughts might change later in life but the purpose of his story is just to narrate his experiments with truth in life. He also says that through this book he wishes to narrate his spiritual and moral experiments rather than political.\n\nThe first part narrates incidents of Gandhi's childhood, his experiments with eating meat, smoking, drinking, stealing and subsequent atonement. There are two texts that had a lasting influence on Gandhi, both of which he read in childhood. He records the profound impact of the play \"Harishchandra\" and says,\"I read it with intense interest...It haunted me and I must have acted Harishchandra to myself times without number.\" Another text he mentions reading that deeply affected him was \"Shravana Pitrabhakti Nataka\", a play about Shravana's devotion to his parents. Gandhi got married at the age of 13. In his words, \"It is my painful duty to have to record here my marriage at the age of thirteen...I can see no moral argument in support of such a preposterously early marriage.\" Another important event documented in this part is the demise of Gandhi's father Karamchand Gandhi. Gandhi wrote the book to deal with his experiment for truth. His disdain for physical training at school, particularly gymnastics has also been written about in this part.\n\nAfter a long history of antagonism, the British and the Dutch shared power in South Africa, with Britain ruling the regions of Natal and Cape Colony, while the Dutch settlers known as the Boers taking charge in the Orange Free State and the Transvaal, two independent republics. The white settler and the independent Boer states continued to engage in volatile interactions with the British, so a threat of violent eruptions always loomed large. In order to placate both the Boer and other white settlers, the British adopted a number of racist policies, and while the Indians, most of them working on sugar and coffee plantations, did not suffer as much as the black population, they clearly experienced a treatment as second-class citizens. The initial story of Gandhi’s travails in South Africa and of his systematic struggle against oppression is well known. Gandhi repeatedly experienced the sting of humiliation during his long African sojourn. The incident at Maritzburg, where Gandhi was thrown off the train has become justly famous. When Gandhi, as a matter of principle, refused to leave the first class compartment, he was thrown off the train. Later, Gandhi also had difficulty being admitted to hotels, and saw that his fellow-Indians, who were mostly manual laborers, experienced even more unjust treatment.\n\nVery soon after his arrival, Gandhi's initial bafflement and indignation at racist policies turned into a growing sense of outrage and propelled him into assuming a position as a public figure at the assembly of Transvaal Indians, where he delivered his first speech urging Indians not to accept inequality but instead to unite, work hard, learn English and observe clean living habits. Although Gandhi's legal work soon start to keep him busy, he found time to read some of Tolstoy's work, which greatly influenced his understanding of peace and justice and eventually inspired him to write to Tolstoy, setting the beginning of a prolific correspondence. Both Tolstoy and Gandhi shared a philosophy of non-violence and Tolstoy's harsh critique of human society resonated with Gandhi's outrage at racism in South Africa.\n\nBoth Tolstoy and Gandhi considered themselves followers of the Sermon on the Mount from the New Testament, in which Jesus Christ expressed the idea of complete self-denial for the sake of his fellow men. Gandhi also continued to seek moral guidance in the Bhagavad-Gita, which inspired him to view his work not as self-denial at all, but as a higher form of self-fulfillment. Adopting a philosophy of selflessness even as a public man, Gandhi refused to accept any payment for his work on behalf of the Indian population, preferring to support himself with his law practice alone.\n\nBut Gandhi's personal quest to define his own philosophy with respect to religion did not rely solely on sacred texts. At the time, he also engaged in active correspondence with a highly educated and spiritual Jain from Bombay, his friend Raychandra, who was deeply religious, yet well versed in a number of topics, from Hinduism to Christianity. The more Gandhi communicated with Raychandra, the more deeply he began to appreciate Hinduism as a non violent faith and its related scriptures. Yet, such deep appreciation also gave birth to a desire to seek inner purity and illumination, without solely relying on external sources, or on the dogma within every faith. Thus, although Gandhi sought God within his own tradition, he espoused the idea that other faiths remained worthy of study and contained their own truths.\n\nNot surprisingly, even after his work assignment concluded, Gandhi soon found a reason to remain in South Africa. This pivotal reason involved the \"Indian Franchise Bill\", with which the Natal legislature intended to deprive Indians of the right to vote. No opposition existed against this bill, except among some of Gandhi's friends who asked him to stay in South Africa and work with them against this new injustice against Indians, who white South Africans disparagingly called \"coolies.\" He found that racist attitudes had become deeply entrenched, especially in the Dutch-ruled regions, where they lived in the worst urban slums and could not own property or manage agricultural land. Even in Natal, where Indians had more influence, they were not allowed to go out after 9 p.m. without a pass, while in Cape Colony, another British territory, they were not allowed to walk on the sidewalk. The new bill which prohibited Indians from voting in Natal only codified existing injustice in writing.\n\nAlthough a last-minute petition drive failed to the Indian Franchise Bill from passing, Gandhi remained active and organized a much larger petition, which he sent to the Secretary of State for the Colonies in London, and distributed to the press in South Africa, Britain and India. The petition raised awareness of the plight of Indians and generating discussions in all three continents to the point where both the Times of London and the Times of India published editorials in support of the Indian right to the vote. Gandhi also formed a new political organization called the Natal Indian Congress (a clear reference to the Indian National Congress), which held regular meetings and soon, after some struggles with financing, started its own library and debating society. They also issued two major pamphlets, An Appeal to Every Briton in South Africa, and The Indian Franchise–An Appeal, which offered a logical argument against racial discrimination. He was also thrown of the Train when he didn't agree to move from his first class seat which he paid for.\n\nThough, at first, Gandhi intended to remain in South Africa for a month, or a year at most, he ended up working in South Africa for about twenty years. After his initial assignment was over, he succeeded in growing his own practice to about twenty Indian merchants who contracted manage their affairs. This work allowed him to both earn a living while also finding time to devote to his mission as a public figure. During his struggle against inequality and racial discrimination in South Africa, Gandhi became known among Indians all around the world as \"Mahatma,\" or \"Great Soul.\"\n\nIn South Africa with the Family, the Boer War, Bombay and South Africa Again.\n\nIn 1896, Gandhi made a brief return to India and returned with his wife and children. In India, he published another pamphlet, known as the Green Pamphlet, on the plight of Indians in South Africa. For the first time, Gandhi realized that Indians had come to admire his work greatly and experienced a taste of his own popularity among the people, when he visited Madras, an Indian province, where most manual laborers had originated. Although his fellow-Indians greeted him in large crowds with applause and adulation, he sailed back to South Africa with his family in December 1896.\n\nGandhi had become very well known in South Africa as well, to the point where a crowd of rioters awaited him at Port Natal, determined that he should not be allowed to enter. Many of them also mistakenly believed that all the dark-skinned passenger on the ship that took Gandhi to Natal were poor Indian immigrants he had decided to bring along with him, when, in reality, these passengers were mostly returning Indian residents of Natal. Fortunately, Gandhi was able to establish a friendly relationship with the British in South Africa so the Natal port's police superintendent and his wife escorted him to safety. After this incident, local white residents began to actually regard him with greater respect.\n\nAs Gandhi resumed his work at the Natal Indian Congress, his loyalty to the British guided him to assist them in the Boer War, which started three years later. Because Gandhi remained a passionate pacifist, he wanted to participate in the Boer War without actually engaging in violence so he organized and led an Indian Medical Corps which served the British in a number of battles, including the important battle of Spion Kop in January 1900.\n\nAt the time, Gandhi believed that the British Empire shared the values of liberty and equality that he himself embraced and that, by virtue of defending those principles, the British constitution deserved the loyalty of all British subjects, including Indians. He viewed racist policy in South Africa as a temporary characteristic aberration, rather than a permanent tendency. With respect to the British in India, at this point in his life, Gandhi considered their rule beneficial and benevolent.\n\nThe armed conflict between the British and Dutch raged on for over three years of often brutal fighting with the British conquering the Transvaal and Orange Free state territories. Gandhi expected that the British victory would establish justice in South Africa and present him with an opportunity to return to India. He wanted to attend the 1901 meeting of the Indian National Congress, whose mission was to provide a social and political forum for the Indian upper class. Founded in 1885 by the British, the Congress had no real political power and expressed pro-British positions. Gandhi wanted to attend its meeting nevertheless, as he was hoping to pass a resolution in support of the Indian population in South Africa. Before he left for Bombay, Gandhi promised the Natal Indian Congress that he would return to support their efforts, should they need his help.\n\nAs Gandhi attended the 1901 Indian National Congress, his hopes came true. G.K. Gokhale, one of the most prominent Indian politicians of the time, supported the resolution for the rights of Indians in South Africa and the resolution passed. Through Gokhale, in whose house Gandhi stayed for a month, Gandhi met many political connections that would serve him later in life.\n\nHowever, his promise to always aid his friends in Natal soon prompted him to return to South Africa, when he received an urgent telegram informing him that the British and Boers had now formed a peaceful relationship and often acted together to the detriment of the Indian population, as Britain was planning to live local white individuals in power in South Africa, much like it had done in Canada and Australia.\n\nGandhi travelled back to South Africa immediately and met with Joseph Chamberlain, Secretary of State for the Colonies, and presented him with a paper on the injustice against the Indian population but Chamberlain indicated that the Indians would have to obey the new rulers of South Africa, now called the \"Afrikaners,\" which included both Dutch and British local settlers.\n\nGandhi began to organize a fast response to this new South African political configuration. Instead of working in Natal, he now established a camp in the newly conquered Transvaal region and began helping Indians who had escaped from the war in that region, and now had to purchase overly expensive re-entry passes. He also represented poor Indians whose dwellings in a shantytown the authorities had dispossessed. Gandhi also started a new magazine, Indian Opinion, that advocated for political liberty and equal rights in South Africa. The magazine, which initially included several young women from Europe, expanded its staff around the country, increasing both Gandhi's popularity and the public support for his ideas.\n\nAt round same time, Gandhi read John Ruskin's book \"Unto This Last\", which maintained that the life of manual labor was superior to all other ways of living. As he adopted this belief, Gandhi chose to abandon Western dress and habits, and he moved his family and staff to a Transvaal farm called the Phoenix, where he even gave renounced the use of an oil-powered engine and printed \"Indian Opinion\" by hand-wheel, and performed agriculture labor using old, manual farming equipment. He began to conceive of his public work as a mission to restore old Indian virtue and civilization, rather than fall prey to modern Western influence, which included electricity and technology.\n\nBetween 1901 and 1906, he also changed another aspect of his personal life by achieving Brahmacharya, or the voluntary abstention from sexual relations. He made this choice as part of his philosophy of selflessness and self-restraint. Finally, he also formulated his own philosophy of political protest, called Satyagraha, which literally meant \"truth-force\" in Sanskrit. In practice, this practice meant protesting injustice steadfastly, but in a non-violent manner.\n\nHe put this theory into practice on September 8, 1906, when, at a large gathering of the Indian community in Transvaal, he asked the whole community to take a vow of disobedience to the law, as the Transvaal government had started an effort to register every Indian child over the age of eight, which would make them an official part of the South African population.\n\nSetting a personal example, Gandhi became the first Indian to appear before a magistrate for his refusal to register, and he was sentenced to two months in prison. He actually asked for a heavier sentence, a request, consistent with his philosophy of self-denial. After his release, Gandhi continued his campaign and thousands of Indians burned their registration cards, crossing the Transvaal-Natal border without passes. Many went to jail, including Gandhi, who went to jail again in 1908.\n\nGandhi did not waiver when a South African General by the name of Jan Christiaan Smuts promised to eliminate the registration law, but broke his word. Gandhi went all the way to London in 1909 and gathered enough support among the British to convince Smuts to eliminate the law in 1913. Yet, the Transvaal Prime Minister continued to regard Indians as second-class citizens while the Cape Colony government passed another discriminatory law making all non-Christian marriages illegal, which meant that all Indian children would be considered born out of wedlock. In addition, the government in Natal continued to impose crippling poll tax for entering Natal only upon Indians.\n\nIn response to these strikingly unjust rules, Gandhi organized a large-scale satyagraha, which involved women crossing the Natal-Transvaal border illegally. When they were arrested, five thousand Indian coal miners also went on strike and Gandhi himself led them across the Natalese border, where they expected arrest.\n\nAlthough Smuts and Gandhi did not agree on many points, they had respect for each other. In 1913, Smuts relented due to the sheer number of Indians involved in protest and negotiated a settlement which provided for the legality of Indian marriages and abolished the poll tax. Further, the import of indentured laborers from India was to be phased out by 1920. In July 1914, Gandhi sailed for Britain, now admired as \"Mahatma,\" and known throughout the world for the success of satyagraha.\n\nPart IV. Mahatma in the Midst of World Turmoil\n\nGandhi was in England when World War I started and he immediately began organizing a medical corps similar to the force he had led in the Boer War, but he also faced health problems that caused him to return to India, where he met the applauding crowds with enthusiasm once again. Indians continued to refer to him as \"Mahatma\" or \"Great Soul,\" an appellation reserved only for the holiest men of Hinduism. While Gandhi accepted the love and admiration of the crowds, he also insisted that all souls were equal and did not accept the implication of religious sacredness that his new name carried.\n\nIn order to retreat into a life of humility and restraint, as his personal principles mandated, he decided to withdraw from public life for a while spending his first year in India focusing on his personal quest for purity and healing. He also lived in a communal space with untouchables, a choice which many of his financial supporters resented, because they believed that the very presence of untouchables defiled higher-caste Indians. Gandhi even considered moving to a district in Ahmedabad inhabited entirely by the untouchables when a generous Muslim merchant donated enough money to keep up his current living space for another year. By that time, Gandhi's communal life with the untouchables had become more acceptable.\n\nAlthough Gandhi had withdrawn from public life, he briefly met with the British Governor of Bombay (and future Viceroy of India), Lord Willington, whom Gandhi promised to consult before he launched any political campaigns. Gandhi also felt the impact of another event, the passing of G.K. Gokhale, who had become his supporter and political mentor. He stayed away from the political trend of Indian nationalism, which many of the members of the Indian National Congress embraced. Instead, he stayed busy resettling his family and the inhabitants of the Phoenix Settlement in South Africa, as well as the Tolstoy Settlement he had founded near Johannesburg. For this purpose, on May 25, 1915, he created a new settlement, which came to be known as the Satyagraha ashram ( derive from Sanskrit word \"Satya\" means \"truth\" ) near the town of Ahmedabad and close to his place of birth in the western Indian province of Gujarati. All the inhabitants of the ashram, which included one family of untouchables, swore to poverty and chastity.\n\nAfter a while, Gandhi became influenced by the idea of Indian independence from the British, but he dreaded the possibility that a westernized Indian elite would replace the British government. He developed a strong conviction that Indian independence should take place as a large-scale sociopolitical reform, which would remove the old plagues of extreme poverty and caste restrictions. In fact, he believed that Indians could not become worthy of self-government unless they all shared a concern for the poor.\n\nAs Gandhi resumed his public life in India in 1916, he delivered a speech at the opening of the new Hindu University in the city of Benares, where he discussed his understanding of independence and reform. He also provided specific examples of the abhorrent living conditions of the lower classes that he had observed during his travels around India and focused specifically on sanitation.\n\nAlthough the Indians of the higher-castes did not readily embrace the ideas in the speech, Gandhi had now returned to public life and he felt ready to convert these ideas to actions. Facing the possibility of arrest, just like he always did in South Africa, Gandhi first spoke for the rights of impoverished indigo-cultivators in the Champaran district. His efforts eventually led to the appointment of a government commission to investigate abuses by the indigo planters.\n\nHe also interefered whenever he saw violence. When a group of Ahmedabad mill workers went on strike and became violent, he resolved to fast until they returned to peace. Though some political commentators condemned Gandhi's behavior as a form of blackmail, the fast only lasted three days before the workers and their employers negotiated an agreement. Through this situation, Gandhi discovered the fast as one of his most effective weapons in late years and set a precedent for later action as part of satyagraha.\n\nAs the First World War continued, Gandhi also became involved in recruiting men for the British Army, an involvement which his followers had a difficult time accepting, after listening to his passionate speeches about resisting injustice in a non-violent manner. Not surprisingly, at this point, although Gandhi still remained loyal to Britain and enamored with the ideals of the British constitution, his desire to support and independent home rule became stronger. As time passed, Gandhi became exhausted from his long journey around the country and fell ill with dysentery. He refused conventional treatment and chose to practice his own healing methods, relying on diet and spending a long time bedridden, while in recovery in his ashram.\n\nIn the meantime, India’s unrest was overwhelming at the prospect of the British destroying the world's only Muslim power, the Ottoman Empire. While the British alleged that they fought to protect the rights of small states and independent peoples from tyranny, in India, an increasing number of people found this alleged commitment less than genuine.\n\nAfter the end of the war, the British government decided to follow the recommendations of the Rowlatt Committee, which advocated the retention of various wartime restrictions in India, including curfews and measures to suppress free speech. Gandhi was still sick when these events took place and, although he could not protest actively, he felt his loyalty to the British Empire weaken significantly.\n\nLater, when the Rowlatt Act actually became law, Gandhi proposed that the entire country observe a day of prayer, fasting, and abstention from physical labor as a peaceful protest against the injustice of the oppressive law. Gandhi's plea generated an overwhelming response as millions of Indians did not go to work on April 6, 1919.\n\nAs the entire country stood still, the British arrested Gandhi, which provoked angry crowds to fill the streets of India's cities and, much to Gandhi's dislike, violence erupted everywhere. Gandhi could not tolerate violence so he called off his campaign and asked that everyone return to their homes. He acted in accordance with his firm belief that if satyagraha could not be carried out without violence, it should not take place at all.\n\nUnfortunately, not all protesters shared Gandhi's conviction as ardently. In Amritsar, capital of the region known as the Punjab, where the alarmed British authorities had deported the local Hindu and Muslim members of the Congress, the street mobs became very violent and the British summoned Brigadier-General Reginald E.H. Dyer to restore order. Dyer prohibited all public meetings and instituted public whippings for Indians who approached British policemen. Despite these new regulations, a crowd of over ten thousand protesters gathered in the center of Armitsar, and Dyer responded with bringing his troops there and opening fire without warning. Tightly packed together, the protesters had nowhere to run from the fire, even when they threw themselves down on the ground the fire was then directed on the ground, ceasing only when the British troops no longer had ammunition. Hundreds died and many more were wounded.\n\nThis unfortunate occurrence became known as the Amritsar Massacre, it outraged the British public almost as much as Indian society. The authorities in London eventually condemned Dyer's conduct, forcing him to resign in disgrace. The effect the massacre had on Indian society became even more profound as more moderate politicians, like Gandhi, now began to wholeheartedly support the idea of Indian independence, creating an intense climate of mutual hostility. After the massacre, Gandhi eventually obtained permission to travel to Amritsar and conduct his own investigation. He produced a report months later and his work on the report motivated him to contact a number of Indian politicians, who advocated for the idea of independence from British rule.\n\nAfter Amritsar, Gandhi attended the Muslim Conference being held in Delhi, where Indian Muslims discussed their fears that the British would suppress Caliphs of Turkey. Muslims considered the Caliphs as heirs of Mohammed and spiritual heads of Islam. While the British considered such suppression a necessary effort to restore order after World War I, the Muslim populations viewed it as slap in the face. Gandhi urged them not to accept the actions of the British. He proposed a boycott of British goods, and stated that if the British continued to insist on the elimination of the Caliphate, Indian Muslims should take even more drastic measures of non-cooperation, involving areas such as government employment and taxes.\n\nDuring the months that followed, Gandhi continued to advocate for peace and caution, however, since Britain and Turkey were still negotiating their peace terms. Unlike more nationalistic politicians, he also supported the Montagu-Chelmsford Reforms for India, as they laid the foundation for constitutional self-government. Eventually, other politicians who thought the reforms did not go far enough had to agree with Gandhi simply because his popularity and influence had become so great that the Congress could accomplish little without him.\n\nAs the British remained determined to put an end to the Muslim Caliphate, they enforced the Rowlatt Act resolutely. Even Gandhi became less tolerant towards British practices and in April 1920, he urged all Indians, Muslim and Hindu, to begin a \"non-cooperation\" protest against the British rule by giving up their Western clothing and British jobs. As a personal example, on August 1, he returned the kasar-i-hind medal that he had received for providing medical service to the Boer War's wounded British army in South Africa. He also became the first president of the Home Rule League, a largely symbolic position which confirmed his position as an advocate for Indian Independence.\n\nIn September 1920, Gandhi also passed an official constitution for the Congress, which created a system of two national committees and numerous local units, all working to mobilize a spirit of non-cooperation across India. Gandhi and other volunteers traveled around India further establishing this new grass roots organization, which achieved great success. The new British Viceory in India, Lord Reading, did not dare to interfere because of Gandhi's immense popularity.\n\nBy 1922, Gandhi decided that the initiative of non-cooperation had to transform into open civil disobedience, but in March 1922, Lord Reading finally ordered Gandhi's arrest after a crowd in the city of Chauri Chaura attacked and killed the local representatives of British authority. Gandhi, who had never encouraged or sanctioned this type of conduct, condemned the actions of the violent crowds and retreated into a period of fasting and prayer as a response to this violent outburst. However, the British saw the event as a trigger point and a reason for his arrest.\n\nThe British authorities placed Gandhi on trial for sedition and sentenced him to six years in prison, marking the first time that he faced prosecution in India. Because of Gandhi's fame, the judge, C.N. Broomfield, hesitated to impose a harsher punishment. He considered Gandhi clearly guilty as charged, despite the fact that Gandhi admitted his guilt and even went as far as requesting the heaviest possible sentence. Such willingness to accept imprisonment conformed to his philosophy of satyagraha, so Gandhi felt that his time in prison only furthered his commitment and goals. The authorities allowed him to use a spinning wheel and receive reading materials while in prison, so he felt content. He also wrote most of his autobiography while serving his sentence.\n\nHowever, in Gandhi's absence, Indians returned to their British jobs and their every day routines. Even worse, the unity between Muslims and Hindu, which Gandhi advocated so passionately, had already begun to fall apart to the point where the threat of violence loomed large over many communities with mixed population. The fight for Indian independence could not continue while Indians themselves suffered disunity and conflict, all the more difficult to overcome in a huge country like India, which had always suffered religious divisions, as well as divisions by language, and even caste.\n\nGandhi realized that Independence and that the British had lost the will and power to sustain their empire, but he always acknowledged that Indians could not rely simply on the weakening of Britain in order to achieve independence. He believed that Indians had to become morally ready for Independence. He planned to contribute to such readiness through his speeches and writing, advocating humility, restraint, good sanitation, as well as an end to child marriages. He acknowledged that he had changed his position on many issues, like child marriages, and that he had not always managed to discern the most moral course of action in his life.\n\nAfter his imprisonment ended, he resumed his personal quest for purification and truth. He ends his autobiography by admitting that he continues to experience and fight with \"the dormant passion\" that lie within his own soul. He felt ready to continue the long and difficult path of taming those passions and putting himself last among his fellow human beings, the only way to achieve salvation, according to him.\n\n\"That is why the worlds' praise fails to move me; indeed it very often stings me. To conquer the subtle passions is far harder than the physical conquest of the world by the force of arms,\"\n\nGandhi writes in his \"Farewell\" to the readers, a suitable conclusion for an autobiography that he never intended to be an autobiography, but a tale of experiments with life, and with truth.\n\nAfter its initiation, \"The Story of My Experiments with Truth\" remained in the making for 4–5 years (including the time while Gandhi was imprisoned at Yerwada Central Jail near Pune, Maharashtra), and then it first appeared as a series in the weekly Gujarati magazine \"Navjivan\" during 1925–1928, which was published from Ahmedabad, India.\n\n\"The Story of My Experiments with Truth\" was first published in the United States in 1948 by Public Affairs Press of Washington, DC.\n\nGandhi wrote in his autobiography that the three most important modern influences in his life were Leo Tolstoy's \"The Kingdom of God Is Within You\", John Ruskin's \"Unto This Last\", and the poet Shrimad Rajchandra (Raychandbhai).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38523023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38523023", "title": "Unconventional protein secretion", "text": "Unconventional protein secretion\n\nUnconventional protein secretion (known as ER/Golgi-independent protein secretion or nonclassical protein export ) represents a manner in which the proteins are delivered to the surface of plasma membrane or extracellular matrix independent of the Endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi apparatus. This includes cytokines and mitogens with crucial function in complex processes such as inflammatory response or tumor-induced angiogenesis. Most of these proteins are involved in processes in higher eukaryotes, however an unconventional export mechanism was found in lower eukaryotes too. Even proteins folded in their correct conformation can pass plasma membrane this way, unlike proteins transported via ER/Golgi pathway. Two types of unconventional protein secretion are these: signal-peptid-containing proteins and cytoplasmatic and nuclear proteins that are missing an ER-signal peptide (1).\n\nThese proteins contain a specific signal-peptide sequence, which is to be translated into the endoplasmic reticulum, but are, however, able to reach the cell surface unconventionally. They can be packed into a COPII-coated vesicle and directly fuse with plasma membrane or can fuse with endosomal or lysosomal compartment. Alternatively, they can be packed into non-COPII-coated vesicle as well and fuse with Golgi (before reaching plasma membrane) or directly delivered to the plasma membrane.\n\nSoluble proteins can reach the surface of the cell both by non-vesicular and vesicular mechanisms. Non-vesicular mechanisms use a carrier to get proteins into extracellular space (for example phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate). Vesicular mechanisms can use the lysosome-dependent pathway, microvesicle shedding or biogenesis of multivesicular bodies.\n"}
{"id": "2141295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141295", "title": "Victor Mancha", "text": "Victor Mancha\n\nVictor Mancha is a fictional character, a superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character appeared in the award-winning series, \"Runaways\". Like the original Runaways, Victor has a supervillain for a parent; his is the classic Avengers villain Ultron, an evil robot bent on world domination. Victor, however, is a cyborg, with human flesh and natural tissue cloned from his human mother which completely conceals his metal parts and circuitry.\n\nVictor Mancha was created by author Brian K. Vaughan and artist Adrian Alphona and debuted in \"Runaways\" vol. 2, #1 (April 2005).\n\nWhen Ultron encountered a woman named Marianella Mancha who is unable to have a child due to a drug that was put in her, Ultron took some of her DNA and cloned it while combining some of his advanced nano-technology to create for her a son named Victor Mancha.\n\nThe Runaways first heard of Victor Mancha as a boy who would grow up to become the villain \"Victorious\", a man who would rule the world after dismantling the Avengers. Due to his prophesied betrayal, Victor was kept under close surveillance when he first joined the team, but has since been accepted as a full-fledged member. He is the team's only Latino member and one of two members who can pilot the Leapfrog, the Runaways' mode of transportation.\n\nVictor is first introduced as the son of Mexican single mother Marianella Mancha, supposed widow of a United States Marine Corps member who was killed in action.\n\nWhen an older version of Gertrude Yorkes arrives in the present, she informs the Runaways of a villain in her time named \"Victorious\", and how they must stop him right now while he is still a teen. It is at this point she dies, but the Runaways decide to comply with her wish. After the Runaways track Victor down at his school, the sight of Karolina Dean activates Victor's electromagnetic superpowers - it would later be revealed that Victor's powers would manifest only when he came in contact with another superhero, hence Karolina.\n\nRemembering how future-Gert mentioned that Victorious's father was the \"greatest evil in all the universe\", the Runaways sift through possibilities such as Magneto, Electro, Kingpin, Red Skull, Leader, and Galactus. Although Doctor Doom calls Victor proclaiming he is his father, it turns out that it is merely a Doombot created by Ultron. Victor discovers that his actual \"father\" is Ultron who created Victor as a sleeper agent for the Avengers. Victor was meant to grow up, travel to New York and meet the Avengers. After years of loyal service, he would have access to their most guarded secrets, and then Ultron would have taken over and destroyed every hero on the planet. The Runaways foiled this plan, but Victor still fears this future may come true. Ultron kills Marianella and overrides Victor's circuits, forcing him to attack the Runaways. With help from Excelsior, the Runaways and Victor defeat Ultron, but they take Victor in after realizing that Victor is in the same boat as they are.\n\nOver the next few months, Victor proves himself to the team, particularly to Chase Stein, in battle to make up for his alternate future self. He falls out of grace for a short while after Nico Minoru discovers that the second Pride has tapped into Victor's circuits and was using him to spy on the team.\n\nAfter the Runaways' fight with the new \nPride, Victor begins a physical relationship with Nico; he confesses to have initiated it because he harbors romantic feelings for her, but Nico claims to have participated as a way to escape her survivor's guilt regarding the death of Gertrude Yorkes. However, Victor still attempts a rescue when he discovers Chase has Nico hostage, but is easily shut down when Chase asks him a rhetorical question designed to overload Victor's circuits. Victor recovers with help from Molly Hayes (vicariously by Alex Wilder) and saves Nico from becoming an innocent sacrifice to the Gibborim. At this point, Victor and Nico begin a romantic relationship, but their moment of bliss is interrupted when the team is forced to run from Iron Man and the pro-registration forces of Marvel's Civil War.\n\nDuring a S.H.I.E.L.D. operation to capture the Runaways, Victor uses his powers to shield the Leapfrog from a barrage of missiles. The second wave of missiles are coated with Teflon, so they are unaffected by Victor's magnetic powers and hit him. He suffers grievous damage and the team returns with him to the Hostel. Victor then experiences intense seizures when the Vision arrives with the Young Avengers.\n\nAlthough the Runaways are initially mistrustful of the Young Avengers, Stature is able to pull the Vision away from Victor. The Vision explains that he and Victor were experiencing a form of feedback caused by their shared programming because both of them were created by Ultron.\n\nNico and Victor also initiate a relationship.\n\nVictor's assortment of humorous nicknames is a sort of running gag in the series' second volume, with such names as \"Static Cling Lad\", \"Mr. Roboto\", \"Victron\", \"Calculator Kid\", \"Señor Cyborg\", \"Man of La Mancha\", RoboPinnochio, and Magnet Man.\"\n\nAfter escaping Iron Man and S.H.I.E.L.D., Nico makes a decision to make a deal with the Kingpin, which disgusts Victor. In a twisted turn of events, the Runaways end up time-displaced in 1907 New York. It is during this period where Victor meets Lillie \"the Spieler\" McGurty, a girl who can fly to the sound of music. While separated from Nico, Victor bonds with Lillie's carefree spirit. A short time later, he has a dream of kissing Lillie. Nico, understanding her relationship with Victor is deteriorating, backs off allowing Victor to initiate a relationship with Lillie, who agreed to return to the present with the Runaways. Right before the Runaways boarded the time machine taking them home, Lillie changes her mind and decides to stay instead, due to fear of jumping into the future. Klara Prast takes her place instead, arriving with the Runaways in the present. Although the Runaways do not know, Lillie is still alive, regretting her decision.\nThe Runaways come under attack when a group of Majesdaneans arrive on Earth to capture Karolina. In the end the team is overpowered but Xavin shapeshifts into Karolina's form and takes her place as a prisoner of the Majesdaneans.\n\nFollowing the \"Age of Ultron\" storyline, Victor Mancha joins up with Henry Pym's Avengers A.I. alongside Monica Chang, Vision (his older \"brother\"), and a reprogrammed Doombot. During one mission he sacrifices himself to save a server containing an A.I. civilization. They team later discovers he is alive inside a server called The Diamond when he sends Morse code to Pym that says \"Fruit Loops\", a cereal he hates, which Pym interprets as he is still alive. Victor finds allies against the rogue A.I. He and the Avengers are saved when Monica Chang cuts off the virus by preventing the execution of a rogue LMD.\n\nSome time later, Victor moves in with Vision after getting an internship in Washington, D.C. It is later revealed that Victor is actually acting as an undercover agent for the Avengers, with orders to spy on Vision and his family due to their increasingly erratic behavior. It is revealed via flashbacks that during his time with the Runaways, Victor had secretly developed an addiction to Vibranium, which for him acts similar to narcotics used by humans. After using the Vibranium in a special piano given to Vision by Black Panther, Victor misjudges the strength of his powers and accidentally kills Vision's son, Vin. Captain America arrests him, but Vision defeats the Avengers to reach his cell. Vision is unable to kill Victor, but Victor's cybernetic heart was ripped out of his body by Vision's wife Virginia—killing him. With his final thoughts, he is at peace, knowing that he \"will never be Victorious.\"\n\nWhen Chase Stein attempts to revive Victor's head, the \"Victorious\" program begins. It is revealed that Victor is conscious when Chase Stein, Nico Minoru, Gertrude Yorkes, and Old Lace visits Molly Hayes to see if she is interested in reforming the Runaways again. During this visit, Molly is the only one to figure out that he is conscious and happy that Victor is still alive in a sense. Victor asks Molly to keep this a secret as he figures out whether or not he wants to rejoin Chase and the others. But unknown to the Runaways, Molly's grandmother plucked a strand of hair from Victor's head with unclear intentions. \n\nVictor Mancha is a cyborg, created from the DNA of Marianella Mancha and the technology of Ultron. Victor was constructed using advanced nanite technology that will evolve and mature with Victor into adulthood so that his robotic innards will transform into artificial human organs, indistinguishable from real ones. Ultron created Victor with several computer-related abilities, including a high level of intelligence, vast amounts of hard drive memory (which Victor refers to as photographic memory), and the ability to communicate with other machines directly. Victor also possesses some level of superhuman strength, incredible speed, a powerful jumping ability, and an automated self-repair function.\n\nIn combat, Victor primarily employs his electromagnetic abilities; he is capable of directing high voltage electrical energy from his hands and manipulating magnetic fields to reshape and bend metallic objects. Much like Magneto, Victor can use Earth's natural magnetic lines of force to levitate and fly.\n\nDespite his array of powers, Victor has four known weaknesses, many of which stem from his mechanical roots. At his current age, Victor's nanites have not yet fully transformed into human organs, so his entire body will set off metal detectors, potentially drawing him unwanted attention. Second, Victor's mainframe can be hacked and controlled remotely; \"Hunter\" (of the second Pride) (Victor removed it with an internal firewall) and Ultron are the only two that have successfully hacked Victor thus far. Victor discovered his third weakness during the Runaways' first encounter with the Young Avengers, when he and the Vision both short-circuited upon getting too close to each other. The Runaways and Young Avengers eventually discovered that when any two of Ultron's creations come within a close vicinity, both create a devastating feedback, harming both machines. This weakness has apparently since been removed, as Victor has been shown interacting with the Vision's new family without any harm to either.\n\nWhile decoding The Abstract, Chase discovered Victor's last and most potent weakness: three questions designed specifically to overload Victor's circuits and lock him into a never ending loop of meaningless binary, which Nico refers to as \"the blue screen of death.\" Chase used the first phrase against Victor after the cyborg discovered Nico in chains: \"Could God make a sandwich so big that even He couldn't finish it?\" The only way for Victor to recover from his shutdown mode is by hearing the question's answer from someone else. Once Victor's mainframe becomes functional again, he cannot be affected by that specific phrase ever again. The two other phrases are unrevealed as yet, and are known only to Chase and Nico.\n\nIn \"What If the Runaways became the Young Avengers?\", Victor is first contacted by his future self of Victorious after Victorious traveled back from the future with Iron Lad, who accidentally landed in Victorious's time while attempting to escape Kang the Conqueror. Victor and Victorious steal the Iron Lad armor and Victor pretends to be Iron Lad. He then recruits the Runaways forcing them to be an actual superhero team with costumes, but intends to kill them. When Kang appears to rescue his younger self, the subsequent fight results in Iron Lad being killed and Kang being erased from history while Victor destroys his future self rejecting his evil ways. Having averted his destiny, Victor then departs via Kang's time-belt to find his own way, leaving the Runaways to continue as Young Avengers with Chase now using parts of the Iron Lad armor.\n\nDuring the \"Age of Ultron\" storyline, Victor Mancha was bringing some children to one of the Runaways' old bases in Los Angeles. Victor is having a hard time because he believes that if he uses his machine abilities, he will just help Ultron’s victory. He does not tell any of his new found friends about his background because he is afraid they will not accept him. In a flashback, it is shown that his Runaways teammates were all killed by Ultron and that Victor had stored digital versions of them in his memory banks, but these files seem to be corrupted since they seem to telling him that he needs to become more machine and less human. The Ultron Sentinels find the hideout and start killing some of the kids that Victor had saved. Victor decides to fight the Ultron Sentinels while determining that if this is the end, he will go down fighting.\n\nIn one alternate future, has a vision of 12,000 A.D. in which rogue A.I. Dimitrios wiped out humanity, the Kree, the Skrulls, and the Inhumans and traps all mutants in a pocket dimension. Only the Avengers A.I. survive, led by Alexis. Victor in this future wields Ultimate Thor's hammer and joins the surviving Avengers in attacking Dimitrios, who created a spaceship out of Galactus's carcass. He is killed by Dimitrios and Doombot then sacrifices himself, since Victor was the only person he considered a \"Pal\".\n\nOn colorist Christina Strain's Live Journal, she revealed that Victor's eyes are green with a golden center, which was modeled after Gael García Bernal.\n"}
{"id": "41336366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41336366", "title": "Wellbeing at Work conference", "text": "Wellbeing at Work conference\n\nThe International Wellbeing at Work (WAW) series of academic conferences is relatively new in the field of occupational safety and health. WAW has been held biannually since 2010 and attracts researchers and practitioners of the field. In 2016, WAW 2016 was hosted by TNO in Amsterdam and in 2014, by NRCWE in Copenhagenand . WAW 2012 was held in Manchester, Great Brit.ain The next WAW (2019) will be hel in in Mau 2019Paris. The local organizer of this edition is INRS, the organization of this cycle of conferences is supported by the PEROSH \"Wellbeing and Work\" project group.\n\nPerosh in the European Network for Research on Occupational Safety and Health. Wellbeing at work is considered a strategic component of OSH in Europe.\n\nPast and future Wellbeing at Work conferences include:\n"}
{"id": "14131304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14131304", "title": "Yi Ui-min", "text": "Yi Ui-min\n\nYi Ui-min (Hangul: 이의민, Hanja: 李義旼, (died 7 May 1196) was a military general who dominated the Goryeo government prior to the Mongol Invasions. When his rival, Commander Gyeong Dae-seung, died, Yi Ui-min rose to power in the supreme military council, Jungbang. His tyranny came to and end in 1196 on the 8th day of the 4th lunar month when he was assassinated by General Choe Chung-heon.\n\nYi Ui-min was born of slave status, and his father Yi Seon (이선, 李善) was a salt trader and his mother a temple servant. According to the \"History of Goryeo\", he was as tall as 1m 90 cm and possessed remarkable physical strength. \n\nYi entered the capital defense command (경군, 京軍), where his outstanding Subak technique was noticed by the King Uijong and he was promoted to the \"byeoljang\" (별장, 別將). In 1170, he got a position of the \"jungrangjang\" (중랑장, 中郎將) by the reward of joining the Goryeo warrior rebellion (무신정변). \n\nIn 1173, Kim Bo-dang had attempted to reinstate Uijong who had been dethroned against the grasping political power of Jeong Jung-bu. As a result, Yi had been ordered to return Uijong from his place of exile, Geoje, by rebel forces, only to kill him on his way back in Kyungju. Yi killed Uijong by snapping off his spine with his bare hands. He was said to have burst into a big laughter upon hearing the sound of Uijong's spine breaking. He then rolled up the dead body of Uijong in a blanket and dumped it in a lake. Afterwards, Yi Ui-min was promoted to general (장군, 將軍) in recognition for killing Uijong. \n\nHe then made it to the top post, chief captain (상장군, 上將軍), for the credit of putting down the Revolt of Jo Wi-chong, Governor of Pyongyang in 1174. \n\nAt 1179, when Gyeong Dae-seung, who had an opposite political position against Jeong Jung-bu took the government and pushed away Jeong's people, Yi's power in the government significantly decreased, and his past murder of Uijong became the pretext that Gyeong would use to eliminate him. \nYi had been in fear of an assassination attempt by Gyeong, thus he had placed guards everywhere in around his house. One day, he heard a pleasing rumor that Gyeong was killed. This rumor proved to be wrong though as in fact it had been Heo Seung, a close friend of Gyeong, who had died, not Gyeong himself. As a result of aware of it, Gyeong gave warning of Yi still more, Yi who was seized with fear, run away to Gyeongju on the pretext of illness. \n\nWhen Gyeong died by disease in 1183, King Myeongjong called Yi in to the Gaegyeong. Not believing the death of Gyeong, Yi refused the king's request several times, but finally came to the Gaegyeong after realizing Gyeong's death.\n\nYi who was commissioned as a \"susagongjwabokya\" (수사공좌복야, 守司空左僕射) by Myeongjong had gotten a position of a \"dongjungseomunhapyeongjangsa panbyeongbusa\" (동중서문하평장사 판병부사, 同中書門下平章事判兵部事) in 1190 additionally.\n\nYi who seized the political power, not only took bribes but also extorted private houses and lands. His family also committed many evil deeds. Especially his two sons, Yi Ji-young and Yi Ji-gwang who were called as \"ssangdoja\" (쌍도자, 雙刀子; meaning 'twin swordsmans') by repute.\n\nYi Jiyoung committed all sorts of brutality, killing whomever displaying contumacy to his authority and raping the pretty women, regardless of their marital statues. He even kidnapped and raped a royal concubine. Similarly, Mrs. Choe, Yi's wife, also had a tremendous sexual appetite, which eventually led to her demise after getting kicked out by Yi who had caught her red handed carrying on an adultery with one of their house servants. Yi's daughter was equally as infamously arrogant and lecherous as to disregard her husband, take up a separate residency and fool around with countless men.\n\nIn 1196, having his pigeon snatched away by Ji-young, Yi's son, Choe Chung-soo went to his brother Choe Chung-heon to seek help. The Choe Chung-soo persuaded the Choe Chung-heon to carry out a plot to kill Yi together, to which he agreed after a momentary hesitation.\n\nYi turns down King Myeongjong's request to accompany him to a Bojesa temple (보제사, 普濟寺) by making an excuse about his ill physical condition and sneaks out to a Mita Mountain cottage. Hearing it, the Choe brothers make their way to the cottage and stakes out the place. They eventually kill Yi, ambushing him when he comes out of the cottage and is about to climb on a horse.\n\nHaving successfully carried out the assassination, the Choe brothers immediately head to the Gaegyeong, where they decapitated and exposed head of Yi on the street and call up troops with help from general Baek Jon-yoo. Hearing the news, the Myeongjong at the Bojesa temple hurries his way back to the Gaegyeong.\n\nYi's sons Ji-sun and Ji-gwang battle against the Choe brothers only to run away in the end after having struggled on the defensive.\n\nAs they flee, the Choe brothers lead their troops to the palace to ask the Myeongjong to allow them to put down the remaining insurgents loyal to Yi. With their authority granted by the Myeongjong, the choe brothers close up the castle gates to deter fleeing and went on to detain Yi's followers one by one. Meanwhile, they have general Han Hu capture and kill Yi Ji-young amid his frolick with Kisaengs.\n\nHearing the news that Yi Ji-yeong had died, many people were said to be comforted and cheered. After then, Choe Chungheon killed all families and relatives of Yi Ui-min, and even sent people to every regions of the nation, wiping out all followers and slaves of Yi's. The survived two sons of Yi Ui-min, Yi Ji-sun and Yi Ji-Gwang, returned to Choe Chung-heon to beg for mercy and their pardon, but Choe heedlessly killed both of them, eradicating the last of Yi's clan.\n\n"}
