{"id": "25665475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25665475", "title": "Alfredo Mario Espósito Castro", "text": "Alfredo Mario Espósito Castro\n\nAlfredo Mario Espósito Castro (20 May 1927 – 1 January 2010) was the first Roman Catholic bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Zárate-Campana, Argentina.\n\nOrdained to the priesthood for Institute of Consecrated Life Claretians on August 1, 1954, Pope Paul VI named Espósito Castro bishop on April 21, 1976 and he was ordained on 4 July 1976; he resigned on 18 December 1991.\n"}
{"id": "23925782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23925782", "title": "Ashem Vohu", "text": "Ashem Vohu\n\nAshem Vohu (, Avestan: 𐬀𐬴𐬆𐬨 𐬬𐬊𐬵𐬏‎ aṣ̌əm vohū‎) is a very important prayer in Zoroastrianism. The Ashem Vohu, after the Ahunavar is considered one of the basic, yet meaningful and powerful mantras in the religion. It is also at the end of most of the prayers in the Khordeh Avesta, except a certain few, most notably the Fravarane.\n\n\"Ashem vohu, Ahunavar,\" \"Yenghe hatam\", and \"Airyaman ishya\" form four pillars of the Gathic canon, part of the group of Zoroastrian texts composed in the archaic dialect of the Avestan language. \n\nTranslation:\n\nThere are many translations and all attempts done by scholars do not give an authentic translation of the original with all its possible more deeper significance(s), because they all differ significantly.\n\nFor example:\n\n The main point to be noted in the translation is that the word HOLINESS, can also be replaced with Righteousness."}
{"id": "36045337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36045337", "title": "Badaratittha", "text": "Badaratittha\n\nBadara Tittha Vihara (also Badaratittha, Padaratittha ) is the name of an historic Theravada Buddhist \"vihara\" in what is now the modern Tamil Nadu state of India.\n\nBadaratittha is known to us from the \"Gandhavamsa\" (or \"Cullagandhavamsa\"), a 17th-century \"Pali\" work by \"Nandapañña\" that recounts post-canonical Pali books written in Burma and Ceylon. \n\nThe \"Gandhavamsa\" states that Badara Tittha Vihara was the dwelling place of \"Ācariya Dhammapāla\", an early Theravadin commentator from Kanchipuram.\n"}
{"id": "20020615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20020615", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Bosnia and Herzegovina begins with mention by `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, of Austria-Hungary which Bosnia and Herzegovina were part of at the time. Between the World Wars when Bosnia and Herzegovina were part of Yugoslavia, several members of Yugoslavian royalty had contact with prominent members of the religion. During the period of Communism in Yugoslavia, the first member of the Bahá'í Faith was in 1963 and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was formed in 1990. With the Yugoslavian civil war and separation into Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Bahá'ís had not elected a Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly but do have a small population in a few regions in the country.\n\nBefore 1918, the regions of Bosnia and Herzegovina were part of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire. `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the members of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The seventh of the tablets mentioned European regions and was written on April 11, 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The seventh tablet was translated and presented on April 4, 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on December 12, 1919 and mentioned Austria-Hungary. He says:\n\n\"In brief, this world-consuming war has set such a conflagration to the hearts that no word can describe it. In all the countries of the world the longing for universal peace is taking possession of the consciousness of men. There is not a soul who does not yearn for concord and peace. A most wonderful state of receptivity is being realized.… Therefore, O ye believers of God! Show ye an effort and after this war spread ye the synopsis of the divine teachings in the British Isles, France, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Russia, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Portugal, Rumania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, San Marino, Balearic Isles, Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, Malta, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Shetland Islands, Hebrides and Orkney Islands.\"\n\nFrom 1918 to the 1990s Bosnia and Herzegovina were part of Yugoslavia. Before World War II Yugoslavia continued to be ruled by monarchs and among them there was awareness of the Bahá'í Faith. In July, 1938, Marie of Edinburgh, a member of the religion and Queen of Rumania, died. A message of condolence was communicated, in the name of all Bahá’í communities in East and West, to her daughter, Maria, then Queen of Yugoslavia, to which she replied expressing \"sincere thanks to all of Bahá’u’lláh's followers.\" Later Princess Olga of Yugoslavia, on being informed of the death of Hand of the Cause Martha Root in 1939, remarked “She was so kind and gentle, and a real worker for peace. I am sure she will be sadly missed in her work.”\n\nFollowing the disruption of World War II and oppression during the early period of communism (see for example what happened to the much larger Bahá'í community in Turkmenistan) the first member of the Bahá'í Faith in Yugoslavia was an isolated Bahá'í in Belgrade who converted to the religion in 1963.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. World-wide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. However in the Soviet Block the Bahá'ís had all but disappeared. With the relaxation of the restrictions of Communism through Perestroyka, Yugoslavia's first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was established in November 1990 in Belgrade though the World Christian Encyclopedia maintained there were no Bahá'ís in the country then. By 1998 Yugoslavia was torn by civil war and did not have a Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly. Activities increased with a burgeoning community of Bahá'ís. In 2001, Bahá'í youth gathered for a dance workshop (see Oscar DeGruy) in Zenica \nBy 2003 Bahá’ís had organized Bosnia and Herzegovina into 17 subregions, and four of these contained at least one Bahá'í and a few Ruhi Institute study circles were operating. Despite this, the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) still estimated there were no Bahá'ís in the country.\n\nThe small community of Baha'is of Bosnia and Herzegovina has continued to have a presence in events beyond the confines of the country. In November 2004 membership of Baha'i inspired General Assembly of the International Environment Forum lists one member. In February 2008 the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina aligned themselves with the declaration of the President of Slovenia on behalf of the European Union on the deteriorating situation of the Bahá'ís in Iran. See Persecution of Bahá'ís.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2469861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2469861", "title": "Brother Roger", "text": "Brother Roger\n\nRoger Schütz, popularly known as Brother Roger (; May 12, 1915 – August 16, 2005), was a Swiss Christian leader and monastic brother. In 1940 Schütz founded the Taizé Community, an ecumenical monastic community in Burgundy, France, serving as its first prior until his murder in 2005. Towards the end of his life, the Taizé Community was attracting international attention, welcoming thousands of young pilgrims every week, which it has continued to do after his death.\n\nBorn on May 12, 1915 in Provence, Vaud, Schütz was the ninth and youngest child of Karl Ulrich Schütz, a Protestant pastor from Bachs in the Zürcher Unterland in Switzerland, and his wife, Amélie Henriette Marsauche, a Huguenot from Burgundy, France.\n\nFrom 1937 to 1940, Schütz-Marsauche studied Reformed theology in Strasbourg and Lausanne, where he was a leader in the Swiss Student Christian Movement, part of the World Student Christian Federation. Falling ill with tuberculosis, during his convalescence he began to feel drawn to a monastic way of life.\n\nIn 1940, at the start of World War II, Schütz-Marsauche felt called to serve those suffering from the conflict, as his maternal grandmother had done during World War I. He rode a bicycle from Geneva to Taizé, a small town near Mâcon, about southeast of Paris. The town was then located within unoccupied France, just beyond the line of demarcation from the zone occupied by German troops. He bought an empty house, where for two years he and his sister, Genevieve, hid refugees, both Christian and Jewish, before being forced to leave Taizé, after being tipped off that the Gestapo had become aware of their activities. In 1944, he returned to Taizé to found the Community, initially a small quasi-monastic community of men living together in poverty and obedience, open to all Christians.\n\nSince the late 1950s, many thousands of young adults from many countries have found their way to Taizé to take part in weekly meetings of prayer and reflection. In addition, Taizé brothers make visits and lead meetings, large and small, in Africa, North and South America, Asia, and in Europe, as part of a “pilgrimage of trust on earth”.\n\nThe spiritual leader always kept a low profile, rarely giving interviews and refusing to permit any \"cult\" to grow up around himself. Prior to his death, Brother Roger was due to give up his community functions because of his advanced age and ill-health which had seen him suffer from fatigue and often use a wheelchair.\n\nBrother Roger was a prized authour and wrote many books on prayer and reflection, asking young people to be confident in God and committed to their local church community and to humanity. He also wrote books about Christian spirituality and prayer, some together with Mother Teresa with whom he shared a cordial friendship.\n\nAll his life, Roger devoted himself to reconciling the different Christian denominations. He especially addressed Christian youth. Part of his appeal may have been his dislike of formal preaching, while encouraging a spiritual quest as a common endeavor. During a Taizé gathering in Paris in 1995, he spoke to more than 100,000 young people who were sitting on the floor of an exhibition hall. \"We have come here to search\", he said, \"or to go on searching through silence and prayer, to get in touch with our inner life. Christ always said, 'Do not worry, give yourself'.\"\n\nAlthough from a Protestant background, Brother Roger received the Catholic sacrament of the Eucharist at the Catholic mass celebrated every morning in his monastery. In addition, he received the sacrament from both Pope John Paul II and Pope Benedict XVI, seemingly in contravention of canonical prohibitions reserving the sacrament exclusively to those in full communion with the Catholic Church. Though, according to Cardinal Walter Kasper, this was accomplished as though there was a tacit understanding between Brother Roger and the Catholic Church \"crossing certain confessional\" and canonical barriers through what Brother Roger called a gradual enrichment of his faith with the foundations of the Catholic Church including \"the ministry of unity exercised by the bishop of Rome.\" Brother Roger thus appeared to have undertaken a step without precedent since the Protestant Reformation: entering progressively into full communion with the faith of the Catholic Church possibly without a formal \"conversion\" that would imply a break with his origins. In 1980, during a European Meeting in Rome, he said in Saint Peter’s Basilica in the presence of Pope John Paul II: I have found my own identity as a Christian by reconciling within myself the faith of my origins with the mystery of the Catholic faith, without breaking fellowship with anyone.\n\nBrother Roger was stabbed to death during the evening prayer service in Taizé on August 16, 2005, by a young Romanian woman named Luminița Ruxandra Solcan who was later deemed mentally ill. He was stabbed several times and, though one of the brothers carried him from the church, he died shortly afterward. The assailant was immediately apprehended by members of the congregation and was placed in police custody.\n\nThe funeral took place on August 23, 2005. Horst Köhler, the President of Germany, and Nicolas Sarkozy, at that time Minister of the Interior of France, were in attendance. Brother Roger's community and friends attended the liturgy in the vast monastery church at Taizé, while thousands more followed it on a huge screen in fields outside the church. Brother Roger's simple wooden coffin, a wooden icon lying upon it, was carried into the church by members of the community. In a highly unusual move, the funeral was presided over by a Catholic cardinal, Walter Kasper, the president of the Vatican's Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity, who celebrated the Mass with four priest-brothers of Taizé concelebrating. In his homily he said, \"Yes, the springtime of ecumenism has flowered on the hill of Taizé.\" In reference to Brother Roger's concern for social justice, Cardinal Kasper said \"Every form of injustice or neglect made him very sad.\" Brother Roger's successor, Brother Alois Löser, prayed for forgiveness: \"With Christ on the cross we say to you, Father, forgive her, she does not know what she did.\"\n\nIn 1998, Brother Roger had designated Brother Alois, a German Catholic who had originally come to Taizé as a youth and became one of the brothers, as his successor. This was confirmed by the community and in January 2005, it was announced that Alois would soon be taking Roger's place as Prior of Taizé, but this had not yet occurred at the time of Roger's death, when Alois was attending the World Youth Day celebration in Cologne, Germany. He was installed as prior shortly thereafter.\n\n\nEditions, listed alphabetically, as found in the Library of Congress Catalog shortly after his death:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6221", "title": "Cardinal (Catholic Church)", "text": "Cardinal (Catholic Church)\n\nA cardinal (, literally \"Cardinal of the Holy Roman Church\") is a senior ecclesiastical leader, considered a Prince of the Church, and usually an ordained bishop of the Catholic Church. The cardinals of the Church are collectively known as the College of Cardinals. The duties of the cardinals include attending the meetings of the College and making themselves available individually or in groups to the Pope as requested. Most have additional duties, such as leading a diocese or archdiocese or managing a department of the Roman Curia. A cardinal's primary duty is electing the Pope when the see becomes vacant. During the \"sede vacante\" (the period between a pope's death or resignation and the election of his successor), the day-to-day governance of the Holy See is in the hands of the College of Cardinals. The right to enter the conclave of cardinals where the pope is elected is limited to those who have not reached the age of 80 years by the day the vacancy occurs.\n\nIn 1059, the right of electing the pope was reserved to the principal clergy of Rome and the bishops of the seven suburbicarian sees. In the 12th century the practice of appointing ecclesiastics from outside Rome as cardinals began, with each of them assigned a church in Rome as his titular church or linked with one of the suburbicarian dioceses, while still being incardinated in a diocese other than that of Rome.\n\nThe term \"cardinal\" at one time applied to any priest permanently assigned or incardinated to a church, or specifically to the senior priest of an important church, based on the Latin \"cardo\" (hinge), meaning \"principal\" or \"chief\". The term was applied in this sense as early as the ninth century to the priests of the \"tituli\" (parishes) of the diocese of Rome.\n\nThere is disagreement about the origin of the term, but the consensus that \"cardinalis\" from the word \"cardo\" (meaning 'pivot' or 'hinge') was first used in late antiquity to designate a bishop or priest who was incorporated into a church for which he had not originally been ordained. In Rome the first persons to be called cardinals were the deacons of the seven regions of the city at the beginning of the 6th century, when the word began to mean \"principal,\" \"eminent,\" or \"superior.\" The name was also given to the senior priest in each of the \"title\" churches (the parish churches) of Rome and to the bishops of the seven sees surrounding the city. By the 8th century the Roman cardinals constituted a privileged class among the Roman clergy. They took part in the administration of the church of Rome and in the papal liturgy. By decree of a synod of 769, only a cardinal was eligible to become bishop of Rome. Cardinals were granted the privilege of wearing the red hat by Pope Innocent IV in 1244.\n\nIn cities other than Rome, the name cardinal began to be applied to certain church men as a mark of honour. The earliest example of this occurs in a letter sent by Pope Zacharias in 747 to Pippin III (the Short), ruler of the Franks, in which Zacharias applied the title to the priests of Paris to distinguish them from country clergy. This meaning of the word spread rapidly, and from the 9th century various episcopal cities had a special class among the clergy known as cardinals. The use of the title was reserved for the cardinals of Rome in 1567 by Pius V.\n\nIn the year 1563 the influential Ecumenical Council of Trent, headed by Pope Pius IV, wrote about the importance of selecting good Cardinals. According to this historic council \"nothing is more necessary to the Church of God than that the holy Roman pontiff apply that solicitude which by the duty of his office he owes the universal Church in a very special way by associating with himself as cardinals the most select persons only, and appoint to each church most eminently upright and competent shepherds; and this the more so, because our Lord Jesus Christ will require at his hands the blood of the sheep of Christ that perish through the evil government of shepherds who are negligent and forgetful of their office.\"\n\nThe earlier influence of temporal rulers, notably the French kings, reasserted itself through the influence of cardinals of certain nationalities or politically significant movements. Traditions even developed entitling certain monarchs, including those of Austria, Spain, and France, to nominate one of their trusted clerical subjects to be created cardinal, a so-called \"crown-cardinal\".\n\nIn early modern times, cardinals often had important roles in secular affairs. In some cases, they took on powerful positions in government. In Henry VIII's England, his chief minister was Cardinal Wolsey. Cardinal Richelieu's power was so great that he was for many years effectively the ruler of France. Richelieu's successor was also a cardinal, Jules Mazarin. Guillaume Dubois and André-Hercule de Fleury complete the list of the four great cardinals to have ruled France. In Portugal, due to a succession crisis, one cardinal, Henry, King of Portugal, was crowned king, the only example of a cardinal-king.\n\nWhile the incumbents of some sees are regularly made cardinals, and some countries are entitled to at least one cardinal by concordate (usually earning either its primate or the metropolitan of the capital city the cardinal's hat), no see carries an actual right to the cardinalate, not even if its bishop is a Patriarch.\n\nIn 1059, Pope Nicholas II gave cardinals the right to elect the bishop of Rome in the papal bull \"In nomine Domini\". For a time this power was assigned exclusively to the cardinal bishops, but in 1179 the Third Lateran Council restored the right to the whole body of cardinals.\n\nIn 1586 Pope Sixtus V limited the number of cardinals to 70: six cardinal bishops, 50 cardinal priests, and 14 cardinal deacons. Pope John XXIII exceeded that limit citing the need to staff Church offices. In November 1970 in \"Ingravescentem aetatem\", Pope Paul VI established that electors would be under the age of eighty years. When it took effect on 1 January 1971, it deprived twenty-five cardinals of the right to participate in a conclave. In October 1975 in \"Romano Pontifici eligendo\", he set the maximum number of electors at 120, while establishing no limit on the overall size of the College.\n\nPopes can set aside church laws and they have sometimes brought the number of cardinals under the age of 80 to more than 120, reaching as high as 135 with Pope John Paul II's consistory of 21 February 2001. No more than 120 electors have ever participated in a conclave, but most canon lawyers believe that if their number exceeded 120 they would all participate.\n\nPope Paul VI also increased the number of cardinal bishops by assigning that rank, in 1965, to patriarchs of the Eastern Catholic Churches when named cardinals.\n\nEach cardinal takes on a titular church, either a church in the city of Rome or one of the suburbicarian sees. The only exception is for patriarchs of Eastern Catholic Churches. Nevertheless, cardinals possess no power of governance nor are they to intervene in any way in matters which pertain to the administration of goods, discipline, or the service of their titular churches. They are allowed to celebrate Mass and hear confessions and lead visits and pilgrimages to their titular churches, in coordination with the staff of the church. They often support their churches monetarily, and many Cardinals do keep in contact with the pastoral staffs of their titular churches.\n\nThe Dean of the College of Cardinals in addition to such a titular church also receives the titular bishopric of Ostia, the primary suburbicarian see. Cardinals governing a particular Church retain that church.\n\nIn 1630, Pope Urban VIII decreed their title to be \"Eminence\" (previously, it had been \"illustrissimo\" and \"reverendissimo\") and decreed that their secular rank would equate to Prince, making them secondary only to the Pope and crowned monarchs.\n\nIn accordance with tradition, they sign by placing the title \"Cardinal\" (abbreviated \"Card.\") after their personal name and before their surname as, for instance, \"John Card(inal) Doe\" or, in Latin, \"Ioannes Card(inalis) Cognomen\". Some writers, such as James-Charles Noonan, hold that, in the case of cardinals, the form used for signatures should be used also when referring to them in English. Official sources such as the Catholic News Service say that the correct form for referring to a cardinal in English is normally as \"Cardinal [First name] [Surname]\". This is the rule given also in stylebooks not associated with the Catholic Church. This style is also generally followed on the websites of the Holy See and episcopal conferences. Oriental Patriarchs who are created Cardinals customarily use \"Sanctae Ecclesiae Cardinalis\" as their full title, probably because they do not belong to the Roman clergy.\n\nIn Latin, the [First name] Cardinal [Surname] order is used in the proclamation of the election of a new pope by the cardinal protodeacon, if the new pope is a cardinal, as he has been since 1378.\n\nCardinal bishops (cardinals of the episcopal order) are among the most senior prelates of the Catholic Church. Though in modern times most cardinals are also bishops, the term \"cardinal bishop\" only refers to the cardinals who are titular bishops of one of the seven suburbicarian sees.\n\nIn early times, the privilege of papal election was not reserved to the cardinals, and for centuries the person elected was customarily a Roman priest and never a bishop from elsewhere. To preserve apostolic succession the rite of consecrating him a bishop had to be performed by someone who was already a bishop. The rule remains that, if the person elected Pope is not yet a bishop, he is consecrated by the Dean of the College of Cardinals, the Cardinal Bishop of Ostia.\n\nThere are seven suburbicarian sees: Ostia, Albano, Porto and Santa Rufina, Palestrina, Sabina and Mentana, Frascati, and Velletri. Velletri was united with Ostia from 1150 until 1914, when Pope Pius X separated them again, but decreed that whichever cardinal bishop became Dean of the College of Cardinals would keep the suburbicarian see he already held, adding to it that of Ostia, with the result that there continued to be only six cardinal bishops.\n\nSince 1962, the cardinal bishops have only a titular relationship with the suburbicarian sees, with no powers of governance over them. Each see has its own bishop, with the exception of Ostia, of which the Cardinal Vicar of the see of Rome serves as apostolic administrator.\n\nThe current cardinal bishops of the suburbicarian dioceses are given in the table below (along with those Cardinals whose titular churches were co-opted to suburbicarian rank in June 2018). Those over 80 years of age are ineligible to participate in a Papal conclave.\n\nFor a period ending in the mid-20th century, long-serving cardinal priests were entitled to fill vacancies that arose among the cardinal bishops, just as cardinal deacons of ten years' standing are still entitled to become cardinal priests. Since then, cardinals have been advanced to cardinal bishop exclusively by papal appointment. Those appointed to be cardinal-bishops are usually already cardinals, but their seniority within the order of cardinal bishops is determined by the date of their elevation to the order of cardinal bishop, rather than by the date they originally became cardinals of a lesser order.\n\nOn June 26, 2018, it was announced that, corresponding to the expansion in cardinal priests and cardinal deacons in recent decades, there would be an expansion in cardinal bishops (of Roman titles). Four cardinals, effective June 28, were elevated to this rank by having their titular churches co-opted to suburbicarian rank. At the time of the announcement, all six cardinal bishops of suburbicarian see titles, as well as two of the three cardinal patriarchs, were non-electors because of having reached age 80.\n\nThe Dean of the College of Cardinals, or Cardinal Dean, is the \"primus inter pares\" of the College of Cardinals, elected by the Latin Church cardinal bishops from among their own number, an election, however, that must be approved by the Pope. The position of Dean formerly belonged by right to the longest-serving of the cardinal bishops. The Vice-Dean is similarly elected by the Latin Church cardinal bishops from among their own number with the Pope's approval and also formerly belonged by right to the second-longest-serving of the cardinal bishops.\n\nIn 1965, Pope Paul VI decreed in his \"motu proprio\" \"Ad Purpuratorum Patrum Collegium\" that patriarchs of the Eastern Catholic Churches who were named cardinals (i.e., patriarch cardinals) would also be cardinal bishops, ranking after the six cardinal bishops of the suburbicarian sees. Unlike all other cardinals, these patriarch cardinals do not receive any title associated with the Diocese of Rome. Unlike the other cardinal bishops, they do not participate in electing the dean nor can they be chosen dean. \n\nThere are currently four Eastern Patriarchs who are cardinal bishops:\n\nIf a Latin Church prelate who carries the title patriarch, such as that of Venice or Lisbon, becomes a cardinal, he ranks as a cardinal priest, not automatically as a cardinal bishop, unless specifically appointed as one.\n\nCardinal priests are the most numerous of the three orders of cardinals in the Catholic Church, ranking above the cardinal deacons and below the cardinal bishops. Those who are named cardinal priests today are generally bishops of important dioceses throughout the world, though some hold Curial positions.\n\nIn modern times, the name \"cardinal priest\" is interpreted as meaning a cardinal who is of the order of priests. Originally, however, this referred to certain key priests of important churches of the Diocese of Rome, who were recognized as the \"cardinal\" priests, the important priests chosen by the pope to advise him in his duties as Bishop of Rome (the Latin \"cardo\" means \"hinge\"). Certain clerics in many dioceses at the time, not just that of Rome, were said to be the key personnel—the term gradually became exclusive to Rome to indicate those entrusted with electing the bishop of Rome, the pope.\nWhile the cardinalate has long been expanded beyond the Roman pastoral clergy and Roman Curia, every cardinal priest has a titular church in Rome, though they may be bishops or archbishops elsewhere, just as cardinal bishops are given one of the suburbicarian dioceses around Rome. Pope Paul VI abolished all administrative rights cardinals had with regard to their titular churches, though the cardinal's name and coat of arms are still posted in the church, and they are expected to celebrate mass and preach there if convenient when they are in Rome.\n\nWhile the number of cardinals was small from the times of the Roman Empire to the Renaissance, and frequently smaller than the number of recognized churches entitled to a cardinal priest, in the 16th century the College expanded markedly. In 1587, Pope Sixtus V sought to arrest this growth by fixing the maximum size of the College at 70, including 50 cardinal priests, about twice the historical number. This limit was respected until 1958, and the list of titular churches modified only on rare occasions, generally when a building fell into disrepair. When Pope John XXIII abolished the limit, he began to add new churches to the list, which Popes Paul VI and John Paul II continued to do. Today there are close to 150 titular churches, out of over 300 churches in Rome.\n\nThe cardinal who is the longest-serving member of the order of cardinal priests is titled \"cardinal protopriest\". He had certain ceremonial duties in the conclave that have effectively ceased because he would generally have already reached age 80, at which cardinals are barred from the conclave. The current cardinal protopriest is Michael Michai Kitbunchu of Thailand.\n\nThe cardinal deacons are the lowest-ranking cardinals. Cardinals elevated to the diaconal order are either officials of the Roman Curia or priests elevated after their 80th birthday. Bishops with diocesan responsibilities, however, are created cardinal priests.\n\nCardinal deacons derive originally from the seven deacons in the Papal Household and the seven deacons who supervised the Church's works in the districts of Rome during the early Middle Ages, when church administration was effectively the government of Rome and provided all social services. Cardinal deacons are given title to one of these deaconries.\n\nCardinals elevated to the diaconal order are mainly officials of the Roman Curia holding various posts in the church administration. Their number and influence has varied through the years. While historically predominantly Italian the group has become much more internationally diverse in later years. While in 1939 about half were Italian by 1994 the number was reduced to one third. Their influence in the election of the Pope has been considered important, they are better informed and connected than the dislocated cardinals but their level of unity has been varied. Under the 1587 decree of Pope Sixtus V, which fixed the maximum size of the College of Cardinals, there were 14 cardinal deacons. Later the number increased. As late as 1939 almost half of the cardinals were members of the curia. Pius XII reduced this percentage to 24 percent. John XXIII brought it back up to 37 percent but Paul VI brought it down to 27 percent where John Paul II maintained this ratio.\n\nAs of 2005, there were over 50 churches recognized as cardinalatial deaconries, though there were only 30 cardinals of the order of deacons. Cardinal deacons have long enjoyed the right to \"opt for the order of cardinal priests\" (\"optazione\") after they have been cardinal deacons for 10 years. They may on such elevation take a vacant \"title\" (a church allotted to a cardinal priest as the church in Rome with which he is associated) or their diaconal church may be temporarily elevated to a cardinal priest's \"title\" for that occasion. When elevated to cardinal priests, they take their precedence according to the day they were first made cardinal deacons (thus ranking above cardinal priests who were elevated to the college after them, regardless of order).\n\nWhen not celebrating Mass but still serving a liturgical function, such as the semiannual \"Urbi et Orbi\" papal blessing, some Papal Masses and some events at Ecumenical Councils, cardinal deacons can be recognized by the dalmatics they would don with the simple white mitre (so called \"mitra simplex\").\n\nThe cardinal protodeacon is the senior cardinal deacon in order of appointment to the College of Cardinals. If he is a cardinal elector and participates in a conclave, he announces a new pope's election and name from the central balcony of St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City. The proto-deacon also bestows the pallium on the new pope and crowns him with the papal tiara, though coronations have been discontinued since Pope John Paul I opted for a simpler papal inauguration ceremony in 1978. The current cardinal proto-deacon is Renato Raffaele Martino.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Ceased to be protodeacon upon being raised to the order of cardinal-priest\n<br>†Was protodeacon at time of death\n\nThe Cardinal Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church, assisted by the Vice-Camerlengo and the other prelates of the office known as the Apostolic Camera, has functions that in essence are limited to a period of \"sede vacante\" of the papacy. He is to collate information about the financial situation of all administrations dependent on the Holy See and present the results to the College of Cardinals, as they gather for the papal conclave.\n\nUntil 1917, it was possible for someone who was not a priest, but only in minor orders, to become a cardinal (see \"lay cardinals\", below), but they were enrolled only in the order of cardinal deacons. For example, in the 16th century, Reginald Pole was a cardinal for 18 years before he was ordained a priest. In 1917 it was established that all cardinals, even cardinal deacons, had to be priests, and, in 1962, Pope John XXIII set the norm that all cardinals be ordained as bishops, even if they are only priests at the time of appointment. As a consequence of these two changes, canon 351 of the 1983 Code of Canon Law requires that a cardinal be at least in the order of priesthood at his appointment, and that those who are not already bishops must receive episcopal consecration. Several cardinals aged over 80 or close to it when appointed have obtained dispensation from the rule of having to be a bishop. These were all appointed cardinal-deacons, but Roberto Tucci and Albert Vanhoye lived long enough to exercise the right of option and be promoted to the rank of cardinal-priest.\n\nA cardinal who is not a bishop is still entitled to wear and use the episcopal vestments and other pontificalia (episcopal regalia: mitre, crozier, zucchetto, pectoral cross and ring). Even if not a bishop, any cardinal has both actual and honorary precedence over non-cardinal patriarchs, as well as the archbishops and bishops who are not cardinals, but he cannot perform the functions reserved solely to bishops, such as ordination. The prominent priests who since 1962 were not ordained bishops on their elevation to the cardinalate were over the age of 80 or near to it, and so no cardinal who was not a bishop has participated in recent papal conclaves.\n\nAt various times, there have been cardinals who had only received first tonsure and minor orders but not yet been ordained as deacons or priests. Though clerics, they were inaccurately called \"lay cardinals\". Teodolfo Mertel was among the last of the lay cardinals. When he died in 1899 he was the last surviving cardinal who was not at least ordained a priest. With the revision of the Code of Canon Law promulgated in 1917 by Pope Benedict XV, only those who are already priests or bishops may be appointed cardinals. Since the time of Pope John XXIII a priest who is appointed a cardinal must be consecrated a bishop, unless he obtains a dispensation.\n\nIn addition to the named cardinals, the pope may name secret cardinals or cardinals \"in pectore\" (Latin for \"in the breast\"). During the Western Schism, many cardinals were created by the contending popes. Beginning with the reign of Pope Martin V, cardinals were created without publishing their names until later, a practice termed \"creati et reservati in pectore\". A cardinal named \"in pectore\" is known only to the pope. In the modern era popes have named cardinals \"in pectore\" to protect them or their congregations from political reprisals. If conditions change, the pope makes the appointment public. The cardinal in question then ranks in precedence with those made cardinals at the time of his \"in pectore\" appointment. If a pope dies before revealing the identity of an \"in pectore\" cardinal, the person's status as cardinal expires. The last pope known to have named a cardinal \"in pectore\" is Pope John Paul II, who named four, including one whose identity was never revealed.\n\nWhen in choir dress, a Latin Church cardinal wears scarlet garments — the blood-like red symbolizes a cardinal's willingness to die for his faith. Excluding the rochet — which is always white — the scarlet garments include the cassock, mozzetta, and biretta (over the usual scarlet zucchetto). The biretta of a cardinal is distinctive not merely for its scarlet color, but also for the fact that it does not have a pompon or tassel on the top as do the birettas of other prelates. Until the 1460s, it was customary for cardinals to wear a violet or blue cape unless granted the privilege of wearing red when acting on papal business. His normal-wear cassock is black but has scarlet piping and a scarlet fascia (sash). Occasionally, a cardinal wears a scarlet \"ferraiolo\" which is a cape worn over the shoulders, tied at the neck in a bow by narrow strips of cloth in the front, without any 'trim' or piping on it. It is because of the scarlet color of cardinals' vesture that the bird of the same name has become known as such.\n\nEastern Catholic cardinals continue to wear the normal dress appropriate to their liturgical tradition, though some may line their cassocks with scarlet and wear scarlet fascias, or in some cases, wear Eastern-style cassocks entirely of scarlet.\n\nIn previous times, at the consistory at which the pope named a new cardinal, he would bestow upon him a distinctive wide-brimmed hat called a galero. This custom was discontinued in 1969 and the investiture now takes place with the scarlet biretta. In ecclesiastical heraldry, however, the scarlet galero is still displayed on the cardinal's coat of arms. Cardinals had the right to display the galero in their cathedral, and when a cardinal died, it would be suspended from the ceiling above his tomb. Some cardinals will still have a galero made, even though it is not officially part of their apparel.\n\nTo symbolize their bond with the papacy, the pope gives each newly appointed cardinal a gold ring, which is traditionally kissed by Catholics when greeting a cardinal (as with a bishop's episcopal ring). Before the new uniformity imposed by John Paul II, each cardinal was given a ring, the central piece of which was a gem, usually a sapphire, with the pope's stemma engraved on the inside. There is now no gemstone, and the pope chooses the image on the outside: under Pope Benedict XVI it was a modern depiction of the crucifixion of Jesus, with Mary and John to each side. The ring includes the pope's coat of arms on the inside.\n\nCardinals have in canon law a \"privilege of forum\" (i.e., exemption from being judged by ecclesiastical tribunals of ordinary rank): only the pope is competent to judge them in matters subject to ecclesiastical jurisdiction (cases that refer to matters that are spiritual or linked with the spiritual, or with regard to infringement of ecclesiastical laws and whatever contains an element of sin, where culpability must be determined and the appropriate\necclesiastical penalty imposed). The pope either decides the case himself or delegates the decision to a tribunal, usually one of the tribunals or congregations of the Roman Curia. Without such delegation, no ecclesiastical court, even the Roman Rota, is competent to judge a canon law case against a cardinal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "972617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=972617", "title": "Children of Gebelawi", "text": "Children of Gebelawi\n\nChildren of Gebelawi, (أولاد حارتنا) is a novel by the Egyptian writer and Nobel laureate Naguib Mahfouz. It is also known by its Egyptian dialectal transliteration, Awlad Haretna, formal Arabic transliteration, Awlaadu Haaratena and by the alternative translated transliteral Arabic title of Children of Our Alley.\n\nIt was originally published in Arabic in 1959, in serialised form, in the daily newspaper \"Al-Ahram\". It was met with severe opposition from religious authorities, and publication in the form of a book was banned in Egypt.\n\nIt was first printed in Lebanon in 1967. An English translation by Philip Stewart was published in 1981 and is still in print; when Stewart refused to sell his copyright, Doubleday commissioned a new version by Peter Theroux.\n\nIt was this book that earned Naguib Mahfouz condemnation from Omar Abdel-Rahman in 1989, after the Nobel Prize had revived interest in it. As a result, in 1994 – a day after the anniversary of the prize – Mahfouz was attacked and stabbed in the neck by two extremists outside his Cairo home. Mahfouz survived the attack, yet he suffered from its consequences until his death in 2006.\n\nThe story recreates the interlinked history of the three monotheistic Abrahamic religions (Judaism, Christianity, and Islam), allegorised against the setting of an imaginary 19th century Cairene alley.\n\nCritics claimed that Gabalawi stands for God. Mahfouz rejected this, saying that he stood for \"a certain idea of God that men have made\" and that \"Nothing can represent God. God is not like anything else. God is gigantic.\" The first four sections retell, in succession, the stories of: Adam (Adham أدهم) and how he was favoured by Gabalawi over the latter's other sons, including the eldest Satan/Iblis (Idris إدريس). In subsequent generations the heroes relive the lives of Moses (Gabal جبل), Jesus (Rifa'a رفاعة) and Muhammad (Qasim قاسم). The followers of each hero settle in different parts of the alley, symbolising Judaism, Christianity and Islam. The protagonist of the book's fifth section is Arafa (عرفة), who symbolises modern science and comes after the prophets, while all of their followers claim Arafa as one of their own.\n\nCentral to the plot are the futuwwat (plural of futuwwa, 'strongman'), who control the alley and exact protection money from the people. The successive heroes overthrow the strongmen of their time, but in the next generation new strongmen spring up and things are as bad as ever. Arafa tries to use his knowledge of explosives to destroy the strongmen, but his attempts to discover Gabalawi's secrets leads to the death of the old man (though he does not directly kill him). The Chief Strongman guesses the truth and blackmails Arafa into helping him to become the dictator of the whole Alley. The book ends, after the murder of Arafa, with his friend searching in a rubbish tip for the book in which Arafa wrote his secrets. The people say \"Oppression must cease as night yields to day. We shall see the end of tyranny and the dawn of miracles.\"\n\n\n1. Children of Gebelaawi, 1997 edition (referenced above), introduction, pp. vii-xxv.\n"}
{"id": "32516987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32516987", "title": "Christian culture", "text": "Christian culture\n\nChristian culture is the cultural practices common to Christianity. With the rapid expansion of Christianity to Europe, Syria, Mesopotamia, Asia Minor, Egypt, Ethiopia, and India and by the end of the 4th century it had also become the official state church of the Roman Empire. Christian culture has influenced and assimilated much from the Greco-Roman Byzantine, Western culture, Middle Eastern, Slavic, Caucasian, and possibly from Indian.\n\nWestern culture, throughout most of its history, has been nearly equivalent to Christian culture, and many of the population of the Western hemisphere could broadly be described as cultural Christians. The notion of \"Europe\" and the \"Western World\" has been intimately connected with the concept of \"Christianity and Christendom\" many even attribute Christianity for being the link that created a unified European identity. Historian Paul Legutko of Stanford University said the Catholic Church is \"at the center of the development of the values, ideas, science, laws, and institutions which constitute what we call Western civilization.\"\n\nThough Western culture contained several polytheistic religions during its early years under the Greek and Roman Empires, as the centralized Roman power waned, the dominance of the Catholic Church was the only consistent force in Western Europe. Until the Age of Enlightenment, Christian culture guided the course of philosophy, literature, art, music and science. Christian disciplines of the respective arts have subsequently developed into Christian philosophy, Christian art, Christian music, Christian literature etc. Art and literature, law, education, and politics were preserved in the teachings of the Church, in an environment that, otherwise, would have probably seen their loss. The Church founded many cathedrals, universities, monasteries and seminaries, some of which continue to exist today. Medieval Christianity created the first modern universities. The Catholic Church established a hospital system in Medieval Europe that vastly improved upon the Roman \"valetudinaria\". These hospitals were established to cater to \"particular social groups marginalized by poverty, sickness, and age,\" according to historian of hospitals, Guenter Risse. Christianity also had a strong impact on all other aspects of life: marriage and family, education, the humanities and sciences, the political and social order, the economy, and the arts.\n\nChristianity had a significant impact on education and science and medicine as the church created the bases of the Western system of education, and was the sponsor of founding universities in the Western world as the university is generally regarded as an institution that has its origin in the Medieval Christian setting. Many clerics throughout history have made significant contributions to science and Jesuits in particular have made numerous significant contributions to the development of science. The cultural influence of Christianity includes social welfare, founding hospitals, economics (as the Protestant work ethic), natural law (which would later influence the creation of international law), politics, architecture, literature, personal hygiene, and family life. Christianity played a role in ending practices common among pagan societies, such as human sacrifice, slavery, infanticide and polygamy. \n\nChristians have made a myriad contributions to human progress in a broad and diverse range of fields, both historically and in modern times, including the science and technology, medicine, fine arts and architecture, politics, literatures, music, philanthropy, philosophy, ethics, theatre and business. According to \"100 Years of Nobel Prizes\" a review of Nobel prizes award between 1901 and 2000 reveals that (65.4%) of Nobel Prizes Laureates, have identified Christianity in its various forms as their religious preference. Eastern Christians (particularly Nestorian Christians) have also contributed to the Arab Islamic Civilization during the Ummayad and the Abbasid periods by translating works of Greek philosophers to Syriac and afterwards to Arabic. They also excelled in philosophy, science, theology and medicine.\n\nCultural Christians are secular people with a Christian heritage who may not believe in the religious claims of Christianity, but who retain an affinity for the popular culture, art, music, and so on related to it. Another frequent application of the term is to distinguish political groups in areas of mixed religious backgrounds\n\nThe architecture of cathedrals, basilicas and abbey churches is characterised by the buildings' large scale and follows one of several branching traditions of form, function and style that all ultimately derive from the Early Christian architectural traditions established in the Constantinian period.\n\nCathedrals in particular, as well as many abbey churches and basilicas, have certain complex structural forms that are found less often in parish churches. They also tend to display a higher level of contemporary architectural style and the work of accomplished craftsmen, and occupy a status both ecclesiastical and social that an ordinary parish church does not have. Such a cathedral or great church is generally one of the finest buildings within its region and is a focus of local pride. Many cathedrals and basilicas, and a number of abbey churches are among the world's most renowned works of architecture. These include St. Peter's Basilica, Notre Dame de Paris, Cologne Cathedral, Salisbury Cathedral, Prague Cathedral, Lincoln Cathedral, the Basilica of St Denis, the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore, the Basilica of San Vitale, St Mark's Basilica, Westminster Abbey, Saint Basil's Cathedral, Washington National Cathedral, Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, Cathedral Basilica of Saint Louis, Gaudí's incomplete Sagrada Familia and the ancient church of Hagia Sophia, now a museum.\n\nThe earliest large churches date from Late Antiquity. As Christianity and the construction of churches and cathedrals spread throughout the world, their manner of building was dependent upon local materials and local techniques. Different styles of architecture developed and their fashion spread, carried by the establishment of monastic orders, by the posting of bishops from one region to another and by the travelling of master stonemasons who served as architects. The styles of the great church buildings are successively known as Early Christian, Byzantine, Romanesque, Gothic, Renaissance, Baroque, various Revival styles of the late 18th to early 20th centuries and Modern. Overlaid on each of the academic styles are the regional characteristics. Some of these characteristics are so typical of a particular country or region that they appear, regardless of style, in the architecture of churches designed many centuries apart.\n\nChristian art is sacred art which uses themes and imagery from Christianity. Most Christian groups use or have used art to some extent, although some have had strong objections to some forms of religious image, and there have been major periods of iconoclasm within Christianity.\n\nImages of Jesus and narrative scenes from the \"Life of Christ\" are the most common subjects, and scenes from the Old Testament play a part in the art of most denominations. Images of the Virgin Mary and saints are much rarer in Protestant art than that of Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nChristianity makes far wider use of images than related religions, in which figurative representations are forbidden, such as Islam and Judaism. However, there is also a considerable history of aniconism in Christianity from various periods.\n\nAn illuminated manuscript is a manuscript in which the text is supplemented by the addition of decoration. The earliest surviving substantive illuminated manuscripts are from the period AD 400 to 600, primarily produced in Ireland, Constantinople and Italy. The majority of surviving manuscripts are from the Middle Ages, although many illuminated manuscripts survive from the 15th century Renaissance, along with a very limited number from Late Antiquity.\n\nMost illuminated manuscripts were created as codices, which had superseded scrolls; some isolated single sheets survive. A very few illuminated manuscript fragments survive on papyrus. Most medieval manuscripts, illuminated or not, were written on parchment (most commonly of calf, sheep, or goat skin), but most manuscripts important enough to illuminate were written on the best quality of parchment, called vellum, traditionally made of unsplit calfskin, though high quality parchment from other skins was also called \"parchment\".\n\nChristian art began, about two centuries after Christ, by borrowing motifs from Roman Imperial imagery, classical Greek and Roman religion and popular art. Religious images are used to some extent by the Abrahamic Christian faith, and often contain highly complex iconography, which reflects centuries of accumulated tradition. In the Late Antique period iconography began to be standardised, and to relate more closely to Biblical texts, although many gaps in the canonical Gospel narratives were plugged with matter from the apocryphal gospels. Eventually the Church would succeed in weeding most of these out, but some remain, like the ox and ass in the Nativity of Christ.\n\nAn icon is a religious work of art, most commonly a painting, from Orthodox Christianity. Christianity has used symbolism from its very beginnings. In both East and West, numerous iconic types of Christ, Mary and saints and other subjects were developed; the number of named types of icons of Mary, with or without the infant Christ, was especially large in the East, whereas Christ Pantocrator was much the commonest image of Christ.\n\nChristian symbolism invests objects or actions with an inner meaning expressing Christian ideas. Christianity has borrowed from the common stock of significant symbols known to most periods and to all regions of the world. Religious symbolism is effective when it appeals to both the intellect and the emotions. Especially important depictions of Mary include the Hodegetria and Panagia types. Traditional models evolved for narrative paintings, including large cycles covering the events of the Life of Christ, the Life of the Virgin, parts of the Old Testament, and, increasingly, the lives of popular saints. Especially in the West, a system of attributes developed for identifying individual figures of saints by a standard appearance and symbolic objects held by them; in the East they were more likely to identified by text labels.\n\nEach saint has a story and a reason why he or she led an exemplary life. Symbols have been used to tell these stories throughout the history of the Church. A number of Christian saints are traditionally represented by a symbol or iconic motif associated with their life, termed an attribute or emblem, in order to identify them. The study of these forms part of iconography in Art history.\n\nThe dedication of Constantinople as capital in 330 AD created a great new Christian artistic centre for the Eastern Roman Empire, which soon became a separate political unit. Major Constantinopolitan churches built under Constantine and his son, Constantius II, included the original foundations of Hagia Sophia and the Church of the Holy Apostles. As the Western Roman Empire disintegrated and was taken over by \"barbarian\" peoples, the art of the Byzantine Empire reached levels of sophistication, power and artistry not previously seen in Christian art, and set the standards for those parts of the West still in touch with Constantinople.\n\nThis achievement was checked by the controversy over the use of \"graven images\", and the proper interpretation of the Second Commandment, which led to the crisis of Iconoclasm or destruction of religious images, which racked the Empire between 726 and 843. The restoration of Orthodoxy resulted in a strict standardization of religious imagery within the Eastern Church. Byzantine art became increasingly conservative, as the form of images themselves, many accorded divine origin or thought to have been be painted by Saint Luke or other figures, was held to have a status not far off that of a scriptural text. They could be copied, but not improved upon. As a concession to Iconoclast sentiment, monumental religious sculpture was effectively banned. Neither of these attitudes were held in Western Europe, but Byzantine art nonetheless had great influence there until the High Middle Ages, and remained very popular long after that, with vast numbers of icons of the Cretan School exported to Europe as late as the Renaissance. Where possible, Byzantine artists were borrowed for projects such as mosaics in Venice and Palermo. The enigmatic frescoes at Castelseprio may be an example of work by a Greek artist working in Italy.\n\nThe art of Eastern Catholicism has always been rather closer to the Orthodox art of Greece and Russia, and in countries near the Orthodox world, notably Poland, Catholic art has many Orthodox influences. The Black Madonna of Częstochowa may well have been of Byzantine origin – it has been repainted and this is hard to tell. Other images that are certainly of Greek origin, like the Salus Populi Romani and Our Lady of Perpetual Help, both icons in Rome, have been subjects of specific veneration for centuries.\n\nAlthough the influence has often been resisted, especially in Russia, Catholic art has also affected Orthodox depictions in many respects, especially in countries like Romania, and in the post-Byzantine Cretan School, which led Greek Orthodox art under Venetian rule in the 15th and 16th centuries. El Greco left Crete when relatively young, but Michael Damaskinos returned after a brief period in Venice, and was able to switch between Italian and Greek styles. Even the traditionalist Theophanes the Cretan, working mainly on Mount Athos, nevertheless shows unmistakable Western influence.\n\nMany Eastern Orthodox states in Eastern Europe, as well as to some degree the Muslim states of the eastern Mediterranean, preserved many aspects of the empire's culture and art for centuries afterward. A number of states contemporary with the Byzantine Empire were culturally influenced by it, without actually being part of it (the \"Byzantine commonwealth\"). These included Bulgaria, Serbia, and the Rus, as well as some non-Orthodox states like the Republic of Venice and the Kingdom of Sicily, which had close ties to the Byzantine Empire despite being in other respects part of western European culture. Art produced by Eastern Orthodox Christians living in the Ottoman Empire is often called \"post-Byzantine.\" Certain artistic traditions that originated in the Byzantine Empire, particularly in regard to icon painting and church architecture, are maintained in Greece, Serbia, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Russia and other Eastern Orthodox countries to the present day.\n\nRoman Catholic art consists of all visual works produced in an attempt to illustrate, supplement and portray in tangible form the teachings of the Catholic Church. This includes sculpture, painting, mosaics, metalwork, embroidery and even architecture. Catholic art has played a leading role in the history and development of Western Art since at least the fourth century. The principal subject matter of Catholic Art has been the life and times of Jesus Christ, along with those of his disciples, the saints, and the events of the Jewish Old Testament.\n\nThe earliest surviving art works are the painted frescoes on the walls of the catacombs and meeting houses of the persecuted Christians of the Roman Empire. The Christian Church in Rome was influenced by the Roman style of art and the religious Christian artists of the time. The stone sarcophagi of Roman Christians exhibit the earliest surviving carved statuary of Jesus, Mary and other biblical figures. The legalisation of Christianity transformed Catholic art, which adopted richer forms such as mosaics and illuminated manuscripts. The iconoclasm controversy briefly divided the eastern and western churches, after which artistic development progressed in separate directions. Romanesque and Gothic art flowered in the Western Church as the style of painting and statuary moved in an increasingly naturalistic direction. The Protestant Reformation produced new waves of image-destruction, to which the Church responded with the dramatic and emotive Baroque and Rococo styles. In the 19th century the leadership in western art moved away from the Catholic Church which, after embracing historical revivalism was increasingly affected by the modernist movement, a movement that in its \"rebellion\" against nature, counters the Church's emphasis on nature as a good creation of God.\n\nRenaissance artists such as Raphael, Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci, Bernini, Botticelli, Fra Angelico, Tintoretto, Caravaggio, and Titian, were among a multitude of innovative virtuosos sponsored by the Church.\n\nBritish art historian Kenneth Clark wrote that Western Europe's first \"great age of civilisation\" was ready to begin around the year 1000. From 1100, he wrote, monumental abbeys and cathedrals were constructed and decorated with sculptures, hangings, mosaics and works belonging one of the greatest epochs of art and providing stark contrast to the monotonous and cramped conditions of ordinary living during the period. Abbot Suger of the Abbey of St. Denis is considered an influential early patron of Gothic architecture and believed that love of beauty brought people closer to God: \"The dull mind rises to truth through that which is material\". Clarke calls this \"the intellectual background of all the sublime works of art of the next century and in fact has remained the basis of our belief of the value of art until today\".\n\nLater, during The Renaissance and Counter-Reformation, Catholic artists produced many of the unsurpassed masterpieces of Western art – often inspired by Biblical themes: from Michelangelo's \"David\" and \"Pietà\" sculptures, to Da Vinci's \"Last Supper\" and Raphael's various \"Madonna\" paintings. Referring to a \"great outburst of creative energy such as took place in Rome between 1620 and 1660\", Kenneth Clarke wrote:\n\n[W]ith a single exception, the great artists of the time were all sincere, conforming Christians. Guercino spent much of his mornings in prayer; Bernini frequently went into retreats and practised the Spiritual Exercises of Saint Ignatius; Rubens attended Mass every morning before beginning work. The exception was Caravaggio, who was like the hero of a modern play, except that he happened to paint very well.\n\nThis conformism was not based on fear of the Inquisition, but on the perfectly simple belief that the faith which had inspired the great saints of the preceding generation was something by which a man should regulate his life.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation during the 16th century in Europe almost entirely rejected the existing tradition of Catholic art, and very often destroyed as much of it as it could reach. A new artistic tradition developed, producing far smaller quantities of art that followed Protestant agendas and diverged drastically from the southern European tradition and the humanist art produced during the High Renaissance. In turn, the Catholic Counter-Reformation both reacted against and responded to Protestant criticisms of art in Roman Catholicism to produce a more stringent style of Catholic art. Protestant religious art both embraced Protestant values and assisted in the proliferation of Protestantism, but the amount of religious art produced in Protestant countries was hugely reduced. Artists in Protestant countries diversified into secular forms of art like history painting, landscape painting, portrait painting and still life.\n\nProminent painters with Protestant background were, for example, Albrecht Dürer, Hans Holbein the Younger, Lucas Cranach, Rembrandt, and Vincent van Gogh. World literature was enriched by the works of Edmund Spenser, John Milton, John Bunyan, John Donne, John Dryden, Daniel Defoe, William Wordsworth, Jonathan Swift, Johann Wolfgang Goethe, Friedrich Schiller, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Edgar Allan Poe, Matthew Arnold, Conrad Ferdinand Meyer, Theodor Fontane, Washington Irving, Robert Browning, Emily Dickinson, Emily Brontë, Charles Dickens, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Thomas Stearns Eliot, John Galsworthy, Thomas Mann, William Faulkner, John Updike, and many others.\n\nChristian music is music that has been written to express either personal or a communal belief regarding Christian life and faith. Common themes of Christian music include praise, worship, penitence, and lament, and its forms vary widely across the world.\n\nLike other forms of music the creation, performance, significance, and even the definition of Christian music varies according to culture and social context. Christian music is composed and performed for many purposes, ranging from aesthetic pleasure, religious or ceremonial purposes, or as an entertainment product for the marketplace.\n\nIn music, Catholic monks developed the first forms of modern Western musical notation in order to standardize liturgy throughout the worldwide Church, and an enormous body of religious music has been composed for it through the ages. This led directly to the emergence and development of European classical music, and its many derivatives. The Baroque style, which encompassed music, art, and architecture, was particularly encouraged by the post-Reformation Catholic Church as such forms offered a means of religious expression that was stirring and emotional, intended to stimulate religious fervor.\n\nThe list of Catholic composers and Catholic sacred music which have a prominent place in Western culture is extensive, but includes Ludwig van Beethoven's \"Ode to Joy\"; Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's \"Ave verum corpus\"; Franz Schubert's \"Ave Maria\", César Franck's \"Panis angelicus\", and Antonio Vivaldi's \"Gloria\".\n\nMartin Luther, Paul Gerhardt, George Wither, Isaac Watts, Charles Wesley, William Cowper, and many other authors and composers created well-known church hymns. Musicians like Heinrich Schütz, Johann Sebastian Bach, George Frederick Handel, Henry Purcell, Johannes Brahms, and Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy composed great works of music.\n\nChristian literature is writing that deals with Christian themes and incorporates the Christian world view. This constitutes a huge body of extremely varied writing. Christian poetry is any poetry that contains Christian teachings, themes, or references. The influence of Christianity on poetry has been great in any area that Christianity has taken hold. Christian poems often directly reference the Bible, while others provide allegory.\n\nWhile falling within the strict definition of literature, the Bible is not generally considered literature. However, the Bible has been treated and appreciated as literature; the Bible is a corner stone of Western civilization. The King James Version in particular has long been considered a masterpiece of English prose, whatever may be thought of its religious significance. The Authorized Version has been called \"the most influential version of the most influential book in the world, in what is now its most influential language\", \"the most important book in English religion and culture\", and \"the most celebrated book in the English-speaking world\". David Crystal has estimated that it is responsible for 257 idioms in English, examples include feet of clay and reap the whirlwind. Furthermore, prominent atheist figures such as the late Christopher Hitchens and Richard Dawkins have praised the King James Version as being \"a giant step in the maturing of English literature\" and \"a great work of literature\", respectively, with Dawkins then adding, \"A native speaker of English who has never read a word of the King James Bible is verging on the barbarian\". Several retellings of the Bible, or parts of the Bible, have also been made with the aim of emphasising its literary qualities. With estimated sales of over 5 billion copies, the Bible is widely considered to be the best-selling book of all time. It sells approximately 100 million copies annually, and has been a major influence on literature and history, especially in the West, where the Gutenberg Bible was the first book printed using movable type.\n\nIn Byzantine literature, four different cultural elements are recognised: the Greek, the Christian, the Roman, and the Oriental. Byzantine literature is often classified in five groups: historians and annalists, encyclopaedists (Patriarch Photios, Michael Psellus, and Michael Choniates are regarded as the greatest encyclopaedists of Byzantium) and essayists, and writers of secular poetry. The only genuine heroic epic of the Byzantines is the \"Digenis Acritas\". The remaining two groups include the new literary species: ecclesiastical and theological literature, and popular poetry. And it was in Alexandria that Graeco-Oriental Christianity had its birth. There the Septuagint translation had been made; there that that fusion of Greek philosophy and Jewish religion took place which culminated in Philo; there flourished the mystic speculative Neoplatonism associated with Plotinus and Porphyry. At Alexandria the great Greek ecclesiastical writers worked alongside pagan rhetoricians and philosophers; several were born here, e.g. Origen, Athanasius, and his opponent Arius, also Cyril and Synesius. On Egyptian soil monasticism began and thrived. After Alexandria, Antioch held great prestige, where a school of Christian commentators flourished under St. John Chrysostom and where later arose the Christian universal chronicles. In surrounding Syria, we find the germs of Greek ecclesiastical poetry, while from neighboring Palestine came St. John of Damascus, one of the Greek Fathers.\n\nThe list of Catholic authors and literary works is vast. With a literary tradition spanning two millennia, the Bible and Papal Encyclicals have been constants of the Catholic canon but countless other historical works may be listed as noteworthy in terms of their influence on Western society. From late Antiquity, St Augustine's book Confessions, which outlines his sinful youth and conversion to Christianity, is widely considered to be the first autobiography of ever written in the canon of Western Literature. Augustine profoundly influenced the coming medieval worldview. The \"Summa Theologica\", written 1265–1274, is the best-known work of Thomas Aquinas (c.1225–1274), and although unfinished, \"one of the classics of the history of philosophy and one of the most influential works of Western literature.\" It is intended as a manual for beginners in theology and a compendium of all of the main theological teachings of the Church. It presents the reasoning for almost all points of Christian theology in the West. The epic poetry of the Italian Dante and his \"Divine Comedy\" of the late Middle Ages is also considered immensely influential. The English statesman and philosopher, Thomas More, wrote the seminal work Utopia in 1516. St Ignatius Loyola, a key figure in the Catholic counter-reformation, is the author of an influential book of meditations known as the \"Spiritual Exercises\".\n\nChristian philosophy is a term to describe the fusion of various fields of philosophy with the theological doctrines of Christianity. Scholasticism, which means \"that [which] belongs to the school\", and was a method of learning taught by the academics (or \"school people\") of medieval universities c. 1100–1500. Scholasticism originally started to reconcile the philosophy of the ancient classical philosophers with medieval Christian theology. Scholasticism is not a philosophy or theology in itself but a tool and method for learning which places emphasis on dialectical reasoning.\n\nMedieval philosophy is the philosophy of Western Europe and the Middle East during the Middle Ages, roughly extending from the Christianization of the Roman Empire until the Renaissance. Medieval philosophy is defined partly by the rediscovery and further development of classical Greek and Hellenistic philosophy, and partly by the need to address theological problems and to integrate the then widespread sacred doctrines of Abrahamic religion (Islam, Judaism, and Christianity) with secular learning.\n\nThe history of western European medieval philosophy is traditionally divided into two main periods: the period in the Latin West following the Early Middle Ages until the 12th century, when the works of Aristotle and Plato were preserved and cultivated; and the \"golden age\" of the 12th, 13th and 14th centuries in the Latin West, which witnessed the culmination of the recovery of ancient philosophy, and significant developments in the field of philosophy of religion, logic and metaphysics.\n\nThe medieval era was disparagingly treated by the Renaissance humanists, who saw it as a barbaric \"middle\" period between the classical age of Greek and Roman culture, and the \"rebirth\" or \"renaissance\" of classical culture. Yet this period of nearly a thousand years was the longest period of philosophical development in Europe, and possibly the richest. Jorge Gracia has argued that \"in intensity, sophistication, and achievement, the philosophical flowering in the thirteenth century could be rightly said to rival the golden age of Greek philosophy in the fourth century B.C.\"\n\nSome problems discussed throughout this period are the relation of faith to reason, the existence and unity of God, the object of theology and metaphysics, the problems of knowledge, of universals, and of individuation.\n\nPhilosophers from the Middle Ages include the Christian philosophers Augustine of Hippo, Boethius, Anselm, Gilbert of Poitiers, Peter Abelard, Roger Bacon, Bonaventure, Thomas Aquinas, Duns Scotus, William of Ockham and Jean Buridan; the Jewish philosophers Maimonides and Gersonides; and the Muslim philosophers Alkindus, Alfarabi, Alhazen, Avicenna, Algazel, Avempace, Abubacer, Ibn Khaldūn, and Averroes. The medieval tradition of Scholasticism continued to flourish as late as the 17th century, in figures such as Francisco Suarez and John of St. Thomas.\n\nAquinas, father of Thomism, was immensely influential in Catholic Europe, placed a great emphasis on reason and argumentation, and was one of the first to use the new translation of Aristotle's metaphysical and epistemological writing. His work was a significant departure from the Neoplatonic and Augustinian thinking that had dominated much of early Scholasticism.\n\nThe Renaissance (\"rebirth\") was a period of transition between the Middle Ages and modern thought, in which the recovery of classical texts helped shift philosophical interests away from technical studies in logic, metaphysics, and theology towards eclectic inquiries into morality, philology, and mysticism. The study of the classics and the humane arts generally, such as history and literature, enjoyed a scholarly interest hitherto unknown in Christendom, a tendency referred to as humanism. Displacing the medieval interest in metaphysics and logic, the humanists followed Petrarch in making man and his virtues the focus of philosophy.\n\nThese new movements in philosophy developed contemporaneously with larger religious and political transformations in Europe: the Reformation and the decline of feudalism. Though the theologians of the Protestant Reformation showed little direct interest in philosophy, their destruction of the traditional foundations of theological and intellectual authority harmonized with a revival of fideism and skepticism in thinkers such as Erasmus, Montaigne, and Francisco Sanches. Meanwhile, the gradual centralization of political power in nation-states was echoed by the emergence of secular political philosophies, as in the works of Niccolò Machiavelli (often described as the first modern political thinker, or a key turning point towards modern political thinking), Thomas More, Erasmus, Justus Lipsius, Jean Bodin, and Hugo Grotius.\n\nEarlier attempts at reconciliation of Christianity with Newtonian mechanics appear quite different from later attempts at reconciliation with the newer scientific ideas of evolution or relativity. Many early interpretations of evolution polarized themselves around a \"struggle for existence.\" These ideas were significantly countered by later findings of universal patterns of biological cooperation. According to John Habgood, all man really knows here is that the universe seems to be a mix of good and evil, beauty and pain, and that suffering may somehow be part of the process of creation. Habgood holds that Christians should not be surprised that suffering may be used creatively by God, given their faith in the symbol of the Cross. \nRobert John Russell has examined consonance and dissonance between modern physics, evolutionary biology, and Christian theology.\n\nChristian philosophers Augustine of Hippo (354–430) and Thomas Aquinas held that scriptures can have multiple interpretations on certain areas where the matters were far beyond their reach, therefore one should leave room for future findings to shed light on the meanings. The \"Handmaiden\" tradition, which saw secular studies of the universe as a very important and helpful part of arriving at a better understanding of scripture, was adopted throughout Christian history from early on. Also the sense that God created the world as a self operating system is what motivated many Christians throughout the Middle Ages to investigate nature.\n\nModern historians of science such as J.L. Heilbron, Alistair Cameron Crombie, David Lindberg, Edward Grant, Thomas Goldstein, and Ted Davis have reviewed the popular notion that medieval Christianity was a negative influence in the development of civilization and science. In their views, not only did the monks save and cultivate the remnants of ancient civilization during the barbarian invasions, but the medieval church promoted learning and science through its sponsorship of many universities which, under its leadership, grew rapidly in Europe in the 11th and 12th centuries, St. Thomas Aquinas, the Church's \"model theologian\", not only argued that reason is in harmony with faith, he even recognized that reason can contribute to understanding revelation, and so encouraged intellectual development. He was not unlike other medieval theologians who sought out reason in the effort to defend his faith. Some of today's scholars, such as Stanley Jaki, have claimed that Christianity with its particular worldview, was a crucial factor for the emergence of modern science.\n\nMany well-known historical figures who influenced Western science considered themselves Christian such as Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler, Newton and Boyle.\n\nIsaac Newton, for example, believed that gravity caused the planets to revolve about the Sun, and credited God with the design. In the concluding General Scholium to the Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica, he wrote: \"This most beautiful System of the Sun, Planets and Comets, could only proceed from the counsel and dominion of an intelligent and powerful being.\" Other famous founders of science who adhered to Christian beliefs include Galileo, Johannes Kepler, and Blaise Pascal.\n\nAccording to \"100 Years of Nobel Prizes\" a review of Nobel prizes award between 1901 and 2000 reveals that (65.4%) of Nobel Prizes Laureates, have identified Christianity in its various forms as their religious preference.\n\nOverall, Christians have won a total of 72.5% in Chemistry between 1901 and 2000, 65.3% in Physics, 62% in Medicine, 54% in Economics.\n\nByzantine science was essentially classical science. Therefore, Byzantine science was in every period closely connected with ancient-pagan philosophy, and metaphysics. Despite some opposition to pagan learning, many of the most distinguished classical scholars held high office in the Church. The writings of antiquity never ceased to be cultivated in the Byzantine empire due to the impetus given to classical studies by the Academy of Athens in the 4th and 5th centuries, the vigor of the philosophical academy of Alexandria, and to the services of the University of Constantinople, which concerned itself entirely with secular subjects, to the exclusion of theology, which was taught in the Patriarchical Academy. Even the latter offered instruction in the ancient classics, and included literary, philosophical, and scientific texts in its curriculum. The monastic schools concentrated upon the Bible, theology, and liturgy. Therefore, the monastic scriptoria expended most of their efforts upon the transcription of ecclesiastical manuscripts, while ancient-pagan literature was transcribed, summarized, excerpted, and annotated by laymen or clergy like Photios, Arethas of Caesarea, Eustathius of Thessalonica, and Basilius Bessarion. Byzantine scientists preserved and continued the legacy of the great Ancient Greek mathematicians and put mathematics in practice. In early Byzantium (5th to 7th century) the architects and mathematicians Isidore of Miletus and Anthemius of Tralles used complex mathematical formulas to construct the great Hagia Sophia church, a technological breakthrough for its time and for centuries afterwards due to its striking geometry, bold design and height. In late Byzantium (9th to 12th century) mathematicians like Michael Psellos considered mathematics as a way to interpret the world.\n\nMiddle Eastern Christians especially the adherents of the Church of the East (Nestorians), contributed to the Arab Islamic Civilization during the Ummayad and the Abbasid periods by translating works of Greek philosophers to Syriac and afterwards to Arabic. During the 4th through the 7th centuries, scholarly work in the Syriac and Greek languages was either newly initiated, or carried on from the Hellenistic period. Centers of learning and of transmission of classical wisdom included colleges such as the School of Nisibis, and later the School of Edessa, and the renowned hospital and medical academy of Jundishapur; libraries included the Library of Alexandria and the Imperial Library of Constantinople; other centers of translation and learning functioned at Merv, Salonika, Nishapur and Ctesiphon, situated just south of what later became Baghdad. \n\nMany scholars of the House of Wisdom were of Christian background;\nthe House of Wisdom was a library, translation institute, and academy established in Abbasid-era Baghdad, Iraq. Nestorians played a prominent role in the formation of Arab culture, with the Jundishapur school being prominent in the late Sassanid, Umayyad and early Abbasid periods. Notably, eight generations of the Nestorian Bukhtishu family served as private doctors to caliphs and sultans between the 8th and 11th centuries.\n\nWhile refined and clarified over the centuries, the Roman Catholic position on the relationship between science and religion is one of harmony, and has maintained the teaching of natural law as set forth by Thomas Aquinas. For example, regarding scientific study such as that of evolution, the church's unofficial position is an example of theistic evolution, stating that faith and scientific findings regarding human evolution are not in conflict, though humans are regarded as a special creation, and that the existence of God is required to explain both monogenism and the spiritual component of human origins. Catholic schools have included all manners of scientific study in their curriculum for many centuries.\n\nGalileo once stated \"The intention of the Holy Spirit is to teach us how to go to heaven, not how the heavens go.\" In 1981 John Paul II, then pope of the Roman Catholic Church, spoke of the relationship this way: \"The Bible itself speaks to us of the origin of the universe and its make-up, not in order to provide us with a scientific treatise, but in order to state the correct relationships of man with God and with the universe. Sacred Scripture wishes simply to declare that the world was created by God, and in order to teach this truth it expresses itself in the terms of the cosmology in use at the time of the writer\".\n\nThe influence of the Church on Western letters and learning has been formidable. The ancient texts of the Bible have deeply influenced Western art, literature and culture. For centuries following the collapse of the Western Roman Empire, small monastic communities were practically the only outposts of literacy in Western Europe. In time, the Cathedral schools developed into Europe's earliest universities and the church has established thousands of primary, secondary and tertiary institutions throughout the world in the centuries since. The Church and clergymen have also sought at different times to censor texts and scholars. Thus different schools of opinion exist as to the role and influence of the Church in relation to western letters and learning.\n\nOne view, first propounded by Enlightenment philosophers, asserts that the Church's doctrines are entirely superstitious and have hindered the progress of civilization. Communist states have made similar arguments in their education in order to inculcate a negative view of Catholicism (and religion in general) in their citizens. The most famous incidents cited by such critics are the Church's condemnations of the teachings of Copernicus, Galileo Galilei and Johannes Kepler.\n\nThe Church's priest-scientists, many of whom were Jesuits, have been among the leading lights in astronomy, genetics, geomagnetism, meteorology, seismology, and solar physics, becoming some of the \"fathers\" of these sciences. Examples include important churchmen such as the Augustinian abbot Gregor Mendel (pioneer in the study of genetics), Roger Bacon (a Franciscan friar who was one of the early advocates of the scientific method), and Belgian priest Georges Lemaître (the first to propose the Big Bang theory). Other notable priest scientists have included Albertus Magnus, Robert Grosseteste, Nicholas Steno, Francesco Grimaldi, Giambattista Riccioli, Roger Boscovich, and Athanasius Kircher. Even more numerous are Catholic laity involved in science:Henri Becquerel who discovered radioactivity; Galvani, Volta, Ampere, Marconi, pioneers in electricity and telecommunications; Lavoisier, \"father of modern chemistry\"; Vesalius, founder of modern human anatomy; and Cauchy, one of the mathematicians who laid the rigorous foundations of calculus.\n\nThroughout history many of the Roman Catholic clerics have made contributions to science, mostly during periods of Church domination of public life. These cleric-scientists include Nicolaus Copernicus, Gregor Mendel, Georges Lemaître, Albertus Magnus, Roger Bacon, Pierre Gassendi, Roger Joseph Boscovich, Marin Mersenne, Bernard Bolzano, Francesco Maria Grimaldi, Nicole Oresme, Jean Buridan, Robert Grosseteste, Christopher Clavius, Nicolas Steno, Athanasius Kircher, Giovanni Battista Riccioli, William of Ockham, and others. The Catholic Church has also produced many lay scientists and mathematicians.\n\nThe Jesuits have made numerous significant contributions to the development of science. For example, the Jesuits have dedicated significant study to earthquakes, and seismology has been described as \"the Jesuit science\". The Jesuits have been described as \"the single most important contributor to experimental physics in the seventeenth century\". According to Jonathan Wright in his book \"God's Soldiers\", by the eighteenth century the Jesuits had \"contributed to the development of pendulum clocks, pantographs, barometers, reflecting telescopes and microscopes, to scientific fields as various as magnetism, optics and electricity. They observed, in some cases before anyone else, the colored bands on Jupiter's surface, the Andromeda nebula and Saturn's rings. They theorized about the circulation of the blood (independently of Harvey), the theoretical possibility of flight, the way the moon affected the tides, and the wave-like nature of light.\"\n\nProtestantism had an important influence on science. According to the Merton Thesis there was a positive correlation between the rise of Puritanism and Protestant Pietism on the one hand and early experimental science on the other. The Merton Thesis has two separate parts: Firstly, it presents a theory that science changes due to an accumulation of observations and improvement in experimental techniques and methodology; secondly, it puts forward the argument that the popularity of science in 17th-century England and the religious demography of the Royal Society (English scientists of that time were predominantly Puritans or other Protestants) can be explained by a correlation between Protestantism and the scientific values. In his theory, Robert K. Merton focused on English Puritanism and German Pietism as having been responsible for the development of the scientific revolution of the 17th and 18th centuries. Merton explained that the connection between religious affiliation and interest in science was the result of a significant synergy between the ascetic Protestant values and those of modern science. Protestant values encouraged scientific research by allowing science to study God's influence on the world and thus providing a religious justification for scientific research.\n\nAccording of \"Scientific Elite: Nobel Laureates in the United State\" by Harriet Zuckerman, a review of American Nobel prizes winners awarded between 1901 and 1972, 72% of American Nobel Prize Laureates, have identified from Protestant background. Overall, Protestant have won a total of 84.2% of all the American Nobel Prizes in Chemistry, 60% in Medicine, 58.6% in Physics, between 1901 and 1972.\n\nThe university is generally regarded as an institution that has its origin in the Medieval Christian setting. Prior to the establishment of universities, European higher education took place for hundreds of years in Christian cathedral schools or monastic schools (\"Scholae monasticae\"), in which monks and nuns taught classes; evidence of these immediate forerunners of the later university at many places dates back to the 6th century AD.\n\nMissionary activity for the Catholic Church has always incorporated education of evangelized peoples as part of its social ministry. History shows that in evangelized lands, the first people to operate schools were Roman Catholics. In some countries, the Church is the main provider of education or significantly supplements government forms of education. Presently, the Church operates the world's largest non-governmental school system. Many of Western Civilization's most influential universities were founded by the Catholic Church.\n\nThe Catholic Church founded the West's first universities, which were preceded by the schools attached to monasteries and cathedrals, and generally staffed by monks and friars. Universities began springing up in Italian towns like Salerno, which became a leading medical school, translating the work of Greek and Arabic physicians into Latin. Bologna University became the most influential of the early universities, which first specialised in canon law and civil law. Paris University, specialising in such topics as theology, came to rival Bologna under the supervision of Notre Dame Cathedral. Oxford University in England later came rival Paris in Theology and Salamanca University was founded in Spain in 1243. According to the historian Geoffrey Blainey, the universities benefitted from the use of Latin, the common language of the Church, and its internationalist reach, and their role was to \"teach, argue and reason within a Christian framework\". The medieval universities of Western Christendom were well-integrated across all of Western Europe, encouraged freedom of enquiry and produced a great variety of fine scholars and natural philosophers, including Robert Grosseteste of the University of Oxford, an early expositor of a systematic method of scientific experimentation; and Saint Albert the Great, a pioneer of biological field research\n\nAs the Reformers wanted all members of the church to be able to read the Bible, education on all levels got a strong boost. Compulsory education for both boys and girls was introduced. For example, the Puritans who established Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1628 founded Harvard College only eight years later. About a dozen other colleges followed in the 18th century, including Yale University (1701). Pennsylvania also became a centre of learning. While Princeton University was a Presbyterian foundation. Protestantism also initiated translations of the Bible into national languages and hereby supported the development of national literatures.\n\nA large number of mainline Protestants have played leadership roles in many aspects of American life, including politics, business, science, the arts, and education. They founded most of the country's leading institutes of higher education. The Ivy League universities have strong White Anglo-Saxon Protestant historical ties, and their influence continues today. Until about World War II, Ivy League universities were composed largely of WASP students.\n\nSome of the first colleges and universities in America, including Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Columbia, Dartmouth, Williams, Bowdoin, Middlebury, and Amherst, all were founded by the Mainline Protestantism, as were later Carleton, Duke, Oberlin, Beloit, Pomona, Rollins and Colorado College.\n\nAccording to Pew Center study there is correlation between education and income, about (59%) of American Anglican have a graduate and post-graduate degree, and about (56%) of Episcopalians and (47%) of Presbyterians and (46%) United Church of Christ, have a graduate and post-graduate degree.\n\nA Pew Center study about religion and education around the world in 2016, found that Christians ranked as the second most educated religious group around in the world after Jews with an average of 9.3 years of schooling, and the highest of years of schooling among Christians found in Germany (13.6), New Zealand (13.5) and Estonia (13.1). Christians were also found to have the second highest number of graduate and post-graduate degrees per capita while in absolute numbers ranked in the first place (220 million). Between the various Christian communities, Singapore outranks other nations in terms of Christians who obtain a university degree in institutions of higher education (67%), followed by the Christians of Israel (63%), and the Christians of Georgia (57%).\nAccording to the study, Christians in North America, Europe, Middle East, North Africa and Asia-Pacific regions are highly educated since many of the world universities were built by the historic Christian Churches, in addition to the historical evidence that \"Christian monks built libraries and, in the days before printing presses, preserved important earlier writings produced in Latin, Greek and Arabic\". According to the same study, Christians have a significant amount of gender equality in educational attainment, and the study suggests that one of the reasons is the encouragement of the Protestant Reformers in promoting the education of women, which led to the eradication of illiteracy among females in Protestant communities.\nAccording to the same study \"there is a large and pervasive gap in educational attainment between Muslims and Christians in sub-Saharan Africa\" as Muslim adults in this region are far less educated than their Christian counterparts, with scholars suggesting that this gap is due to the educational facilities that were created by Christian missionaries during the colonial era for fellow believers.\n\nThe administration of the Eastern and Western Roman Empires split and the demise of the Western Empire by the sixth century was accompanied by a series of violent invasions and precipitated the collapse of cities and civic institutions of learning, along with their links to the learning of classical Greece and Rome. For the next thousand years, medical knowledge would change very little. A scholarly medical tradition maintained itself in the more stable East, but in the West, scholarship virtually disappeared outside of the Church, where monks were aware of a dwindling range of medical texts. Hospitality was considered an obligation of Christian charity and bishops' houses and the valetudinaria of wealthier Christians were used to tend the sick. And the legacy of this early period was, in the words of Porter, that \"Christianity planted the hospital: the well-endowed establishments of the Levant and the scattered houses of the West shared a common religious ethos of charity.\" \n\nThe Byzantine Empire was one of the first empires to have flourishing medical establishments. Prior to the Byzantine Empire the Roman Empire had hospitals specifically for soldiers and slaves. However, none of these establishments were for the public. The hospitals in Byzantium were originally started by the church to act as a place for the poor to have access to basic amenities. Hospitals were usually separated between men and women. Although the remains of these hospitals have not been discovered by archaeologists, recordings of hospitals from the Byzantine Empire describe large buildings that had the core feature of an open hearth. The establishments of the Byzantine Empire resembled the beginning of what we now know as modern hospitals. The first hospital was erected by Leontius of Antioch between the years 344 to 358 and was a place for strangers and migrants to find refuge. Around the same time, a deacon named Marathonius was in charge of hospitals and monasteries in Constantinople. His main objective was to improve urban aesthetics, illustrating hospitals as a main part of Byzantine cities. These early hospitals were designed for the poor. In fact, most hospitals throughout the Byzantine Empire were almost exclusively utilized by the poor. This may be due to descriptions of hospitals similar to \"Gregory Nazianzen who called the hospital a stairway to heaven, implying that it aimed only to ease death for the chronically or terminally ill rather than promote recovery\". There is debate between scholars as to why these institutions were started by the church. Many scholars believe that the church founded hospitals in order to receive additional donations. Whatever the case for these hospitals, they began to diffuse across the empire. Soon after, St. Basil of Caesarea developed a place for the sick in which provided refuge for the sick and homeless.\n\nGeoffrey Blainey likened the Catholic Church in its activities during the Middle Ages to an early version of a welfare state: \"It conducted hospitals for the old and orphanages for the young; hospices for the sick of all ages; places for the lepers; and hostels or inns where pilgrims could buy a cheap bed and meal\". It supplied food to the population during famine and distributed food to the poor. This welfare system the church funded through collecting taxes on a large scale and possessing large farmlands and estates. It was common for monks and clerics to practice medicine and medical students in northern European universities often took minor Holy orders. Mediaeval hospitals had a strongly Christian ethos, and were, in the words of historian of medicine Roy Porter, \"religious foundations through and through\", and Ecclesiastical regulations were passed to govern medicine, partly to prevent clergymen profiting from medicine. During Europe's Age of Discovery, Catholic missionaries, notably the Jesuits, introduced the modern sciences to India, China and Japan. While persecutions continue to limit the spread of Catholic institutions to some Middle Eastern Muslim nations, and such places as the People's Republic of China and North Korea, elsewhere in Asia the church is a major provider of health care services - especially in Catholic Nations like the Philippines.\n\nToday he Roman Catholic Church is the largest non-government provider of health care services in the world. It has around 18,000 clinics, 16,000 homes for the elderly and those with special needs, and 5,500 hospitals, with 65 percent of them located in developing countries. In 2010, the Church's Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Health Care Workers said that the Church manages 26% of the world's health care facilities. The Church's involvement in health care has ancient origins.\n\nFrancisco de Vitoria, a disciple of Thomas Aquinas and a Catholic thinker who studied the issue regarding the human rights of colonized natives, is recognized by the United Nations as a father of international law, and now also by historians of economics and democracy as a leading light for the West's democracy and rapid economic development. Joseph Schumpeter, an economist of the twentieth century, referring to the Scholastics, wrote, \"it is they who come nearer than does any other group to having been the 'founders' of scientific economics.\" Other economists and historians, such as Raymond de Roover, Marjorie Grice-Hutchinson, and Alejandro Chafuen, have also made similar statements. \n\nThe Protestant concept of God and man allows believers to use all their God-given faculties, including the power of reason. That means that they are allowed to explore God's creation and, according to Genesis 2:15, make use of it in a responsible and sustainable way. Thus a cultural climate was created that greatly enhanced the development of the humanities and the sciences. Another consequence of the Protestant understanding of man is that the believers, in gratitude for their election and redemption in Christ, are to follow God's commandments. Industry, frugality, calling, discipline, and a strong sense of responsibility are at the heart of their moral code. In particular, John Calvin rejected luxury. Therefore, craftsmen, industrialists, and other businessmen were able to reinvest the greater part of their profits in the most efficient machinery and the most modern production methods that were based on progress in the sciences and technology. As a result, productivity grew, which led to increased profits and enabled employers to pay higher wages. In this way, the economy, the sciences, and technology reinforced each other. The chance to participate in the economic success of technological inventions was a strong incentive to both inventors and investors. The Protestant work ethic was an important force behind the unplanned and uncoordinated mass action that influenced the development of capitalism and the industrial revolution. This idea is also known as the \"Protestant ethic thesis.\" In the book \"The Central Liberal Truth: How Politics Can Change a Culture and Save It from Itself\" Lawrence E. Harrison argues that Protestantism along with Confucianism, and Judaism have been more successful in promoting progress, culture and society. Due to the Protestant virtues of education, achievement, work ethic, merit, frugality, and honesty.\n\nSome mainline Protestant denominations such as Episcopalians and Presbyterians and congregationalist tend to be considerably wealthier and better educated (having high proportion of graduate and post-graduate degrees per capita) than most other religious groups in America, and are disproportionately represented in the upper reaches of American business, law and politics, especially the Republican Party. Large numbers of the most wealthy and affluent American families as the Vanderbilts and Astors, Rockefeller, Du Pont, Roosevelt, Forbes, Whitneys, the Morgans and Harrimans are Mainline Protestant families.\n\nRoman Catholics, Anglicans, Eastern Christians, and traditional Protestant communities frame worship around the liturgical year. The liturgical cycle divides the year into a series of seasons, each with their theological emphases, and modes of prayer, which can be signified by different ways of decorating churches, colours of paraments and vestments for clergy, scriptural readings, themes for preaching and even different traditions and practices often observed personally or in the home.\n\nWestern Christian liturgical calendars are based on the cycle of the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church, and Eastern Christians use analogous calendars based on the cycle of their respective rites. Calendars set aside holy days, such as solemnities which commemorate an event in the life of Jesus or Mary, the saints, periods of fasting such as Lent, and other pious events such as memoria or lesser festivals commemorating saints. Christian groups that do not follow a liturgical tradition often retain certain celebrations, such as Christmas, Easter and Pentecost: these are the celebrations of Christ's birth, resurrection and the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the Church, respectively. A few denominations make no use of a liturgical calendar.\n\nRoman Catholic theology enumerates seven sacraments: Baptism (Christening), Confirmation (Chrismation), Eucharist (Communion), Penance (Reconciliation), Anointing of the Sick (before the Second Vatican Council generally called Extreme Unction), Matrimony\n\nIn Christian belief and practice, a \"sacrament\" is a rite, instituted by Christ, that mediates grace, constituting a sacred mystery. The term is derived from the Latin word \"sacramentum\", which was used to translate the Greek word for \"mystery\". Views concerning both what rites are sacramental, and what it means for an act to be a sacrament vary among Christian denominations and traditions.\n\nThe most conventional functional definition of a sacrament is that it is an outward sign, instituted by Christ, that conveys an inward, spiritual grace through Christ. The two most widely accepted sacraments are Baptism and the Eucharist (or Holy Communion), however, the majority of Christians also recognize five additional sacraments: Confirmation (Chrismation in the Orthodox tradition), Holy orders (ordination), Penance (or Confession), Anointing of the Sick, and Matrimony (see Christian views on marriage).\n\nTaken together, these are the Seven Sacraments as recognized by churches in the High Church tradition—notably Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Independent Catholic, Old Catholic, many Anglicans, and some Lutherans. Most other denominations and traditions typically affirm only Baptism and Eucharist as sacraments, while some Protestant groups, such as the Quakers, reject sacramental theology. Christian denominations, such as Baptists, which believe these rites do not communicate grace, prefer to call Baptism and Holy Communion \"ordinances\" rather than sacraments.\n\nToday, most Christian denominations are neutral about religious male circumcision, neither requiring it nor forbidding it. The practice is customary among the Coptic, Ethiopian, and Eritrean Orthodox Churches, and also some other African churches.\n\nWorship can be varied for special events like baptisms or weddings in the service or significant feast days. In the early church, Christians and those yet to complete initiation would separate for the Eucharistic part of the worship. In many churches today, adults and children will separate for all or some of the service to receive age-appropriate teaching. Such children's worship is often called Sunday school or Sabbath school (Sunday schools are often held before rather than during services).\n\nIn mainstream Nicene Christianity, there is no restriction on kinds of animals that can be eaten. This practice stems from Peter's vision of a sheet with animals, in which Saint Peter \"sees a sheet containing animals of every description lowered from the sky.\" Nonetheless, the New Testament does give a few guidelines about the consumption of meat, practiced by the Christian Church today; one of these is not consuming food knowingly offered to pagan idols, a conviction that the early Church Fathers, such as Clement of Alexandria and Origen preached. In addition, Christians traditionally bless any food before eating it with a mealtime prayer (grace), as a sign of thanking God for the meal they have.\n\nSlaughtering animals for food is often done without the trinitarian formula, although the Armenian Apostolic Church, among other Orthodox Christians, have rituals that \"display obvious links with \"shechitah\", Jewish kosher slaughter.\" The Bible states Norman Geisler, stipulates one to \"abstain from food sacrificed to idols, from blood, from meat of strangled animals\". In the New Testament, Paul of Tarsus notes that some devout Christians may wish to abstain from consuming meat if it causes \"my brother to stumble\" in his faith with God. As such, some Christian monks, such as the Trappists, have adopted a policy of Christian vegetarianism. In addition, Christians of the Seventh-day Adventist tradition generally \"avoid eating meat and highly spiced food\". Christians in the Anglican, Catholic, Lutheran, Methodist, and Orthodox denominations traditionally observe a meat-free day, especially during the liturgical season of Lent.\n\nSome Christian denominations condone the moderate drinking of alcohol (moderationism), such as Anglicans, Catholics, Lutherans, and the Orthodox, although others, such as Adventists, Baptists, Methodists, and Pentecostals either abstain from or prohibit the consumption of alcohol (abstentionism and prohibitionism). However, all Christian Churches, in view of the Biblical position on the issue, universally condemn drunkenness as sinful.\n\nChristian cooking combines the food of many cultures in which Christian have lived. A special Christmas family meal is traditionally an important part of the holiday's celebration, and the food that is served varies greatly from country to country. Some regions, such as Sicily, have special meals for Christmas Eve, when 12 kinds of fish are served. In the United Kingdom and countries influenced by its traditions, a standard Christmas meal includes turkey, goose or other large bird, gravy, potatoes, vegetables, sometimes bread and cider. Special desserts are also prepared, such as Christmas pudding, mince pies, fruit cake and Yule log.\n\nThe Bible has many rituals of purification relating to menstruation, childbirth, sexual relations, nocturnal emission, unusual bodily fluids, skin disease, death, and animal sacrifices. The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church prescribes several kinds of hand washing for example after leaving the latrine, lavatory or bathhouse, or before prayer, or after eating a meal. The women in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church are prohibited from entering the church temple during menses; and the men do not enter a church the day after they have had intercourse with their wives.\n\nChristianity has always placed a strong emphasis on hygiene, Despite the denunciation of the mixed bathing style of Roman pools by early Christian clergy, as well as the pagan custom of women naked bathing in front of men, this did not stop the Church from urging its followers to go to public baths for bathing, which contributed to hygiene and good health according to the Church Father, Clement of Alexandria. The Church also built public bathing facilities that were separate for both sexes near monasteries and pilgrimage sites; also, the popes situated baths within church basilicas and monasteries since the early Middle Ages. Pope Gregory the Great urged his followers on value of bathing as a bodily need.\n\nContrary to popular belief bathing and sanitation were not lost in Europe with the collapse of the Roman Empire. Soapmaking first became an established trade during the so-called \"Dark Ages\". The Romans used scented oils (mostly from Egypt), among other alternatives. By the mid-19th century, the English urbanised middle classes had formed an ideology of cleanliness that ranked alongside typical Victorian concepts, such as Christianity, respectability and social progress. The Salvation Army has adopted movement of the deployment of the personal hygiene, and by providing personal hygiene products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40304834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40304834", "title": "Curia Calabra", "text": "Curia Calabra\n\nThe Curia Calabra was a religious station or \"templum\" used for the ritual observation of the new moon in ancient Rome. Although its exact location is unclear, it was most likely a roofless enclosure in front of an augural hut \"(auguraculum)\", on the southwest flank of the \"Area Capitolina\", the precinct of Temple of Capitoline Jupiter. Servius identifies the Curia Calabra with a \"Casa Romuli\" (\"Hut of Romulus\") on the Capitoline, but Macrobius implies that it was adjacent to the \"Casa\".\n\nThe Roman calendar was originally lunar. On the Kalends or first day of each month, the pontifex minor occupied the Curia Calabra to await the sighting of the new moon. The Rex Sacrificulus and the pontifex then carried out a \"res divina\" (religious service) and sacrifice in honor of Juno, and the Roman people were called to assembly \"(in comitia calata)\". Like \"calata\", the name \"Calabra\" probably derives from \"calare\", \"to summon\" or \"proclaim\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24685045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24685045", "title": "Day of Judaism", "text": "Day of Judaism\n\nThe day of Judaism is an annual day of Christian-Jewish reflection held on January 17 by the Roman Catholic Church in Italy since 1990. \nIn 1997, the idea was brought by the interreligious group, Teshuva, from Milan into the 2nd European Ecumenical Assembly (1997) and spread in the Churches of Europe. Since 2001, the Italian Episcopal Conference was joined by the Italian Jewish community in its promotion. In 2005, both sides assumed a ten-year programme of reflection on the Ten Commandments.\n\nIn January 2009, the assembly of Italian rabbis announced a boycott of the day of Judaism because of a dispute surrounding the modern usage of the Good Friday Prayer for the Jews in Catholic liturgies. The event was nevertheless held by the Catholic bishops of Italy, who ignored the rabbinical boycott. An agreement to resume participation eventually occurred at a meeting organized by Cardinal Angelo Bagnasco and chief Rabbi Riccardo Di Segni. \n\nIn October 2009, Pope Benedict XVI indicated that he would celebrate the following day of Judaism in 2010 by paying a visit to the Great Synagogue of Rome, which has been similarly visited by Pope John Paul II during his pontificate. \n"}
{"id": "39379500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39379500", "title": "Delhi Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1971", "text": "Delhi Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1971\n\nThe Delhi Sikh Gurdwaras Act of 1971 is a piece of Indian legislation modeled after the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925, which determines the management of Sikh houses of worship within Delhi Union Territory. The 1971 act, more stringent than the 1925 act, required that any Sikhs voting for the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee be baptized Sikhs (\"amritdhari\"). The legislation thus excluded from voting those Sikhs with shorn hair, and the sahajdhari, persons who generally follow the Sikh lifestyle but are not initiated into the religion.\n"}
{"id": "56167868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56167868", "title": "Dhanyamalini", "text": "Dhanyamalini\n\nIn Hindu mythology Dhanyamalini was the second wife of Ravana. She was a gentle and caring woman. Her true identity is unknown but some stories refer to her as the daughter of Maya and sister of Mandodari, while others speak of her as a danava princess who was the sister-in-law of Meenakshi or Shurpanaka. She referred to have saved Sita from Ravana's rage when she insulted him. Dhanyamalini had two sons from Ravana, they were Atikaya and Trishira.\n"}
{"id": "1471081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1471081", "title": "Elder (Latter Day Saints)", "text": "Elder (Latter Day Saints)\n\nElder is a priesthood office in the Melchizedek priesthood of denominations within the Latter Day Saint movement, including The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).\n\nIn the LDS Church, \"elder\" is considered the introductory—or lowest—of five offices of the Melchizedek priesthood. Every person who receives the Melchizedek priesthood is simultaneously ordained to the office of elder; this may be done to male members who are at least 18 years old. In order to be ordained, the member must be determined to be worthy by his local bishop and stake president. The consent of the priesthood holders of the stake is also required before the ordination is performed, and this is usually done at a semiannual stake conference or an annual general stake priesthood meeting. Ordination is accomplished by the laying on of hands and with the stake president's approval, may be performed by any holder of the Melchizedek priesthood.\n\nAccording to the LDS Church's Doctrine and Covenants, the duty of an elder is to \"teach, expound, exhort, baptize, and watch over the church.\" Elders have the authority to administer to and bless the sick and afflicted, to \"confirm those who are baptized into the church, by the laying on of hands for the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost\", to baptize and give others the Aaronic or Melchizedek priesthoods as directed by priesthood leaders, and to take the lead in all meetings as guided by the Holy Spirit. An elder may ordain others to the priesthood offices of deacon, teacher, priest, or elder.\n\nIn practice, elders may be responsible for many of the day-to-day operations of a ward. They are called to serve in a variety of positions throughout the ward, such as Aaronic priesthood quorum advisors, Young Men leaders, scout leaders, ward mission leader, and Sunday School leadership. Elders and high priests (assisted by teachers and priests) are also responsible for ministering opportunities to serve the needs of assigned respective households in the ward.\n\nElders are organized into quorums that may contain no more than 96 elders. A quorum president, along with two counselors, is called and set apart under the direction of the stake presidency, and generally serves for a number of years. A secretary is also called to assist the president and his counselors.\n\nAll adult men in the ward who are not presently serving in callings that require the ordination of high priest are assigned to the elders quorum.\n\nThe title \"Elder\" is not normally used as a personal title (e.g., Elder Evans, Elder Johnson), except by the LDS Church's general authorities, area seventies, and full-time male missionaries. Often, full-time missionaries serving within a ward are referred to by the members as \"the elders.\"\n"}
{"id": "2272349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2272349", "title": "Friedrich Adler (artist)", "text": "Friedrich Adler (artist)\n\nFriedrich Adler (29 April 1878 – ca. 11 July 1942) was a German academic, artist and designer. He was especially renowned for his accomplishments in designing metalwork in the Art nouveau and Art deco styles; he was also the first designer to use bakelite.\n\nAdler was born in Laupheim; his birthplace is now the \"Café Hermes\", an Art nouveau building in the style of the late Italian Renaissance.\n\nFrom 1894 to 1897, he studied under Hermann Obrist and Wilhelm von Debschitz, in whose atelier he also taught from 1904 to 1907, at the School for Applied Art in Munich. From 1907 to 1933, he taught at the School for Applied Art in Hamburg. In between, he also directed the mastery lessons in Nuremberg, and was busy designing pieces in applied art for over fifty clients.\n\nOn 11 July 1942 Adler, who was Jewish, was deported to the extermination camp Auschwitz, where, judged too old to work, he was killed soon afterwards. There is a stolperstein in his memory at his last place of employment in Hamburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "4853729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4853729", "title": "Friends of God", "text": "Friends of God\n\nThe Friends of God (German: Gottesfreunde; or gotesvriunde) was a medieval mystical group of both ecclesiastical and lay persons within the Catholic Church (though it nearly became a separate sect) and a center of German mysticism. It was founded between 1339 and 1343 during the Avignon Papacy of the Western Schism, a time of great turmoil for the Catholic Church. The Friends of God were originally centered in Basel, Switzerland, and were also fairly important in Strasbourg and Cologne. Some late-nineteenth century writers made large claims for the movement, seeing it both as influential in fourteenth-century mysticism, and as a precursor of the Protestant Reformation. Modern studies of the movement, however, have emphasised the derivative and often second-rate character of its mystical literature, and its limited impact on medieval literature in Germany.\n\nThe name \"Friends of God\" may have been influenced by various sources. A number of biblical passages use the term (e.g. Judges 8.22, James 2.23, Exodus 33.11, Psalm 138.17, Wisdom 7.27, Lk 12.4, John 15.15). The concept of friendship with God had also been applied by various medieval authors, and particularly among Meister Eckhart and his followers.\n\nThe movement grew out of the preaching and teaching of Meister Eckhart, and especially his Dominican spiritual heirs the preacher John Tauler and the writer Henry Suso. An influence on the Friends of God, although remaining in the background, was the secular priest Henry of Nördlingen, from the Bavarian Oberland, who met Tauler and Suso in Basel in 1339. had a great deal of interaction with other Bavarian and German mystics and introduced the Friends of God to \"The Flowing Light of the Deity\" by Mechthild of Magdeburg.\n\nThe group achieved a nascent institutional form in 1367 when wealthy layman Rulman Merswin purchased and restored a derelict monastery in Strasbourg known as the \"grünenwörth\" ('Green Isle'). Grünenwörth served as a refuge for study for the Friends of God and as a “school of prophets” which produced a number of mystical texts. Merswin is suspected of being the anonymous author The Friend of God from the Oberland.\n\nThe Friends of God, as led by Tauler and Suso, sought a mystical path in line with established Catholic doctrine, following Thomas Aquinas. Rulman Merswin, under the guidance of The Friend of God from the Oberland, wanted to purify the Church. This stress on reform brought The Friends of God into conflict with the Church and not long after Merswin’s death in 1382, they were condemned.\n\nAfter Merswin's death, some sources claim that Nicholas of Basel became the leader. He was eventually burned at the stake with two of his followers for heresy at Vienna around 1395. The relationship of Nicholas of Basel to the Friends of God is unclear as he was condemned as a Beghard.\n\nAnother prominent member, Martin of Mainz, a follower of Nicholas of Basel, was also burned for heresy in 1393.\n\nA number of mystical texts are associated with The Friends of God, most notably the Theologia Germanica and the Book of the Nine Rocks. Many of the works were attributed to The Friend of God from the Oberland, although probably written by Rulman Merswin himself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "261339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261339", "title": "Gamigin", "text": "Gamigin\n\nGamigin is the fourth Goetic demon described in the Lesser Key of Solomon (referred to in the Crowley/Mathers edition as Samigina), and (as Gamygyn) forty-sixth in the Pseudomonarchia Daemonum, in both works as a marquis who initially takes the form of a small horse before transforming into a hoarse-voiced human. The Lesser Key of Solomon merely leaves his duties at teaching liberal arts and giving accounts of souls that died in sin. \n\nThe Pseudomonarchia Daemonum, Thomas Rudd's variant of the Ars Goetia, and the Dictionnaire Infernal go into more detail, with Gamigin forcing the souls of those who drowned into \"airy bodies\" to answer questions in either, with Weyer and de Plancy further claiming that Gamigan can do likewise for souls \"which dwell in purgatorie (which is called Cartagra, that is, affliction of soules)\". According to Rudd, Gamigin is opposed by the Shemhamphorasch angel Ieuiah.\n"}
{"id": "5106726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5106726", "title": "Garshasp", "text": "Garshasp\n\nGarshāsp ( ) is the name of a monster-slaying hero in Iranian mythology. The Avestan form of his name is Kərəsāspa and in Middle Persian his name is Kirsāsp.\n\nIn the Zoroastrian religious text of the Avesta, Kərəsāspa appears as the slayer of ferocious monsters, including the Gandarəβa and the Aži Sruvara. In later Zoroastrian texts Kirsāsp is revived at the end of the world to defeat the monster Dahāg.\n\nKərəsāspa is the son of Θrita and belongs to the Sāma family. Θrita is originally the name of a deity; cf. the Vedic Trita.\n\nAccording to the Zoroastrian holy book, Avesta, Kərəsāspa once stopped on a hill to cook his midday meal. Unbeknownst to Kərəsāspa, the hill was actually the curved back of a sleeping dragon—the Aži Sruvara. As Kərəsāspa's fire began to crackle merrily, the heat from it caused the dragon to stir from its sleep and overturn the hero's kettle. The startled Kərəsāspa fled, but, on regaining his composure, returned to slay the dragon that had spoilt his lunch.\n\nLater texts, the \"Persian Rivayat\" and \"Pahlavi Rivayat\", add more details. According to them, the Az ī Srūwar was a dragon with horns, with huge eyes and ears, and teeth upon which the men it had eaten could be seen impaled. It was so long that Kərəsāspa ran along its back for half a day before he reached its head, struck it with his mace, and killed it.\n\nAnother monster that Kirsāsp fought was the \"Gandarəβa\", Middle Persian \"Gandarw\". (This name is cognate to the Indic gandharva, but the exact way in which the word acquired its respective meanings in Indic and Iranian cultures is uncertain.) The Gandarw lived in the sea. It was also enormous, big enough to swallow twelve provinces in a single gulp, and so tall that when it stood up the deep sea reached only to its knee and its head was as high as the sun. The Gandarw pulled Kirsāsp into the ocean, and they fought for nine days. At last, Kirsāsp flayed the Gandarw and bound it with its own skin. Kirsāsp, weary from the combat, had his companion Axrūrag guard the Gandarw while he slept, but it proved too much for him – the Gandarw dragged Axrūrag and Kirsāsp's family into the sea. When Kirsāsp awakened, he rushed to the sea, freed the captives, and killed the Gandarw.\n\nThe Zoroastrian text called the \"Sūdgar\" tells that when the monster Dahāg, who is now bound in chains on Mount Damāvand, bursts free of his fetters at the end of the world, Kirsāsp will wake from death (his corpse having been guarded from corruption) to destroy Dahāg and save the two thirds of the world that Dahāg has not devoured.\n\nGarshasp or Garshasb was a king who ruled over parts of Greater Persia. Certain of his deeds are recounted in the epic poem Shāhnāma, which preserves, in late form, many of the legends and stories of Greater Persia. Garshasb had been ruling for more than 50 years when the royal family fell victim to black magic and were killed one after the other. Legend has it that there were a few members of the Garshasp clan who survived, but also that they remain enchanted to this day.\nGarshāsp is only tangentially mentioned in the Shāhnāma. There he appears as a distant ancestor of the hero Rostam, who lived at about the same time as King Fereydun. Garshāsp is the father of Narēmān, who is the father of Sām, father of Zāl, who is in turn Rostam's father.\n\nGarshāsp received his own poetic treatment at the hands of Asadi Tusi, who wrote a \"Garshāspnāma\" about this hero.\n\nIn the Garshāspnāma, Garshāsp is the son of Esret (اثرط), the equivalent of the Avestan Θrita, and grandson of Sham (Avestan Sāma). His genealogy goes back through other characters not mentioned in the Avesta: Sham is the son of Tovorg (طورگ), son of Šēdasp, son of Tur, who was an illegitimate son of Jamshid by the daughter of Kurang, king of Zābolestān, begotten at the time that Jamshid had been deposed was fleeing from the forces of Zahhāk.\n\nZahhāk reigned for 1000 years, and so was still king at the time that Garshāsp was born. On one occasion when Zahhāk was traveling in Zābolestān, he saw Garshāsp and encourages him to slay a dragon that had emerged from the sea and settled on Mt. Šekāvand. Equipped with a special antidote against dragon-poison, and armed with special weapons, Garshāsp succeeds in killing the monster. Impressed by the child's prowess, Zahhāk now orders Garshāsp to India, where the king – a vassal of Zahhāk's – has been replaced by a rebel prince, Bahu, who does not acknowledge Zahhāk's rule. Garshāsp defeats the rebel and then stays in India for a while to observe its marvels and engage in philosophical discourse. \n\nAfter returning from India, Garshāsp woos a princess of Rum, restores his father Esret to his throne in Zābol after the king of Kābol defeats him, and builds the city of Sistān. He has further anachronistic adventures in the Mediterranean, fighting in Kairouan and Córdoba.\n\nWhen he returns to Iran, his father dies, and Garshāsp becomes king of Zābolestān. Although he has no son of his own, he adopts Narēmān as his heir, who would become Rostam's great-grandfather. The poem ends with another battle and dragon-slaying, followed by Garshāsp's death.\n\nEncyclopedia Iranica, \"GARŠĀSP-NĀMA\", FRANÇOIS DE BLOIS\n"}
{"id": "1591774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591774", "title": "Geminus", "text": "Geminus\n\nGeminus of Rhodes (), was a Greek astronomer and mathematician, who flourished in the 1st century BC. An astronomy work of his, the \"Introduction to the Phenomena\", still survives; it was intended as an introductory astronomy book for students. He also wrote a work on mathematics, of which only fragments quoted by later authors survive.\n\nNothing is known about the life of Geminus. It is not even certain that he was born in Rhodes, but references to mountains on Rhodes in his astronomical works suggests that he worked there. His dates are not known with any certainty either. A passage in his works referring to the \"Annus Vagus\" (Wandering Year) of the Egyptian calendar of 120 years before his own time, has been used to imply a date of c. 70 BC for the time of writing, which would be consistent with the idea that he may have been a pupil of Posidonius, but a date as late as 50 AD has also been suggested.\n\nThe crater Geminus on the Moon is named after him.\n\nThe only work of Geminus to survive is his \"Introduction to the Phenomena\" (), often just called the \"Isagoge\". This introductory astronomy book, based on the works of earlier astronomers such as Hipparchus, was intended to teach astronomy for beginning students in the subject. In it, Geminus describes the zodiac and the motion of the Sun; the constellations; the celestial sphere; days and nights; the risings and settings of the zodiacal signs; luni-solar periods and their application to calendars; phases of the Moon; eclipses; star phases; terrestrial zones and geographical places; and the foolishness of making weather predictions by the stars.\n\nHe also wrote a commentary on Posidonius' work \"On Meteorology\". Fragments of this commentary are preserved by Simplicius in his commentary on Aristotle's \"Physics\".\n\nGeminus also wrote extensively on mathematics, including a comprehensive \"Doctrine, (or Theory) of Mathematics.\" Although this work has not survived, many extracts are preserved by Proclus, Eutocius, and others. He divided mathematics into two parts: \"Mental\" () and \"Observable\" (), or in other words, Pure and Applied. In the first category he placed geometry and arithmetic (including number theory), and in the second category he placed mechanics, astronomy, optics, geodesy, canonics (musical harmony), and logistics. Long extracts of his work are also preserved by Al-Nayrizi in his commentary on \"Euclid's Elements.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6660790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6660790", "title": "Gentle Wind Project", "text": "Gentle Wind Project\n\nGentle Wind Project (GWP) was a new age group based in New England. Founded circa 1980 by John \"Tubby\" Miller and Claudia Panuthos (now Mary \"Moe\" Miller) in Arlington, Massachusetts, GWP members moved to Kittery, Maine in 1984. The organization was dissolved, as part of a consent decree following a fraud lawsuit brought against the group.\n\nGWP described itself as \"a not-for profit world healing organization... [with] a healing technology... along with telepathic abilities... designed to restore and regenerate a person's energetic structure when used one time in a person's life.\" John Miller claimed to receive telepathic impressions from the spirit world. Miller claimed that he used these impressions to create \"healing instruments\". These instruments were made available to the public in exchange for set donation prices, ranging from hundreds to thousands of dollars.\n\nInternational anti-cult educator Ian Mander published a collection of information about GWP on the internet, as did two former followers, Judy Garvey and Jim Bergin, who wrote about their personal experiences with GWP during seventeen years as followers and board members. In response, in May 2004, GWP leaders filed a lawsuit in Maine U.S. District Court, consisting of federal racketeering (Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act) and Lanham claims, plus state claims, including defamation.\n\nIn January 2006, Garvey and Bergin won their Motion for Summary Judgment in January 2006, resulting in dismissal of GWP's federal claims on the merits, and dismissal of the remaining state claims without prejudice for lack of jurisdiction, by Senior District Judge Gene Carter.\n\nIn January 2006, after the dismissal of the federal litigation, GWP leaders refiled their lawsuit in Maine State Court (York County, Alfred, Maine). They brought the remaining state claims against Garvey, Bergin, and Mander.\n\nThe Attorney General of Maine filed charges against GWP and its officers and directors, citing false claims and fraud. The complaint charged that the defendants falsely claimed that the instruments can improve mental, emotional, and physical well-being. The officers and directors were further charged for improperly disbursing hundreds of thousands of dollars to themselves.\n\nThe Attorney General asked the court to end sales of the \"healing instruments\", dissolve the corporation, ban the parties from serving as officers and directors of nonprofit corporations, order the return of all funds, and provide for restitution.\n\nOn August 14, 2006, the case was resolved by a consent decree in which the defendants \"agreed to pay civil penalties and costs and to an injunction that prohibits them from making certain health and research claims about the \"healing instruments\" or from serving as fiduciaries or advisors for any other Maine nonprofit. The parties have also agreed that GWP will be dissolved, and its remaining assets distributed by the Attorney General as restitution to consumers who purchased a \"healing instrument\" since 2003 and to a Maine charity whose charitable mission is to provide services to those with mental health disabilities, according to a press release from the Attorney General's office. Garvey and Bergin described the proceedings on their website.\n\nThe Millers have formed the Family Systems Research Group to continue much of what the Gentle Wind Project had been doing. The new organization is apparently in New Hampshire and sells its products, rather than seeking \"donations\".\n\n"}
{"id": "26877184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26877184", "title": "Ground (Dzogchen)", "text": "Ground (Dzogchen)\n\nIn Dzogchen ground (; IAST: \"āśraya\" or \"sthāna\") is the primordial state. It is an essential component of the Dzogchen tradition for both the Bonpo and the Nyingmapa. Knowledge of this \"Ground\" is called \"rigpa\".\n\nThe has been rendered as 'Base', 'Basis', 'Ground' and 'Ground of Being' amongst other English glosses. According to Dudjom the original Sanskrit-term is \"āśraya\" (IAST; Sanskrit Devanagari: आश्रय; Etymology: आ- √श्रि), but it could also be \"sthāna\".\n\nSam van Schaik states that \"gzhi\" is to be distinguished from \"kun gzhi\". In the Seminal Heart series a distinction is made between \"kun gzhi\", c.q. \"ālaya\", \"the base of it all\", the samsaric basis of consciousness, of all the samsaric appearances; and \"gzhi\", \"the nirvanic basis known as the ground.\"\n\nAccording to the Dzogchen-teachings, the \"Ground\" or Buddha-nature has three qualities:\n\n(In Goodman & Davidson 1992,) Herbert V. Guenther points out that this \"Ground\" is both a static potential and a dynamic unfolding. They give a process-orientated translation, to avoid any essentialist associations, since\nThe 19th/20th-century Tibetan Buddhist scholar, Shechen Gyaltsap Gyurme Pema Namgyal, sees the Buddha-nature as ultimate truth, nirvana, which is constituted of profundity, primordial peace and radiance:\nBeings are trapped in samsara by not recognizing the ground. The \"Prayer of Kuntuzangpo\" from the Gonpa Zangthal states:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "153231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153231", "title": "Hildesheim", "text": "Hildesheim\n\nHildesheim (Eastphalian: \"Hilmessen\") is a city in Lower Saxony, Germany with 103,804 inhabitants. It is in the district of Hildesheim, about southeast of Hanover on the banks of the Innerste River, a small tributary of the Leine River. With the Hildesheim Cathedral and the St. Michael's Church Hildesheim has become a UNESCO World Heritage site in 1985.\n\nHildesheim, one of the oldest cities in Northern Germany, became the seat of the Bishopric of Hildesheim in 815 and may have been founded when the bishop moved from Elze to the Innerste ford, which was an important market on the Hellweg trade route. The settlement around the cathedral very quickly developed into a town and was awarded market rights by King Otto III in 983. Originally the market was held in a street called Old Market (\"Alter Markt\") which still exists today. The first market place was laid out around the church St. Andreas. When the city grew further, a bigger market place became necessary. The present market place of Hildesheim was laid out at the beginning of the 13th century when the city had about 5,000 inhabitants. When Hildesheim obtained city status in 1249, it was one of the biggest cities in Northern Germany. For four centuries the clergy ruled Hildesheim, before a city hall was built and the citizens gained some influence and independence. Construction of the present City Hall started in 1268. In 1367 Hildesheim became a member of the Hanseatic League. A war between the citizens and their bishop cost dearly in 1519–23 when they engaged in a feud. Hildesheim became Lutheran in 1542, and only the cathedral and a few other buildings remained in imperial (Catholic) hands. Several villages around the city remained Catholic as well. In 1813, after the Napoleonic Wars, the town became part of the Kingdom of Hanover, which was annexed by the Kingdom of Prussia as a province after the Austro-Prussian War in 1866. In 1868 a highly valuable trove of about 70 Roman silver vessels for eating and drinking, the so-called Hildesheim Treasure, was unearthed by Prussian soldiers.\n\nThe city was heavily damaged by air raids in 1945, especially on 22 March. Although it had little military significance, two months before the end of the war in Europe the historic city was bombed as part of the Area Bombing Directive in order to undermine the morale of the German people. 28.5% of the houses were completely destroyed and 44.7% damaged. 26.8% of the houses remained undamaged. The centre, which had retained its medieval character until then, was almost levelled. As in many cities, priority was given to rapid building of badly needed housing, and concrete structures took the place of the destroyed buildings. Most of the major churches, two of them now UNESCO World Heritage Sites, were rebuilt in the original style soon after the war. During the war, valuable world heritage materials had been hidden in the basement of the city wall. In 1978, the University of Hildesheim was founded. In the 1980s a reconstruction of the historic centre began. Some of the unattractive concrete buildings around the market place were torn down and replaced by replicas of the original buildings. In the autumn of 2007, a decision was made to reconstruct the \"Umgestülpter Zuckerhut\" (\"Upended Sugarloaf\"), an iconic half-timbered house famous for its unusual shape. In 2015 the city celebrates it's 1200 anniversary with the Day of Lower Saxony.\n\nIn 1542 most of the inhabitants became Lutherans. Today, 28.5% of the inhabitants self-identify as Roman Catholics (Hildesheim Diocese) and 38.3% as Protestants (Evangelical Lutheran Church of Hanover). 33.0% of the inhabitants are adherents of other religions or do not have a religion at all. The Serbian Orthodox bishop of Frankfurt and all of Germany has his seat in Himmelsthür (a locality of Hildesheim).\n\n\nOther places of interest include the theatre, offering opera, operetta and musicals, drama, ballet and concerts.\n\n\nThe following list shows the largest foreign groups in the city of Hildesheim :\n\n\nHildesheim is twinned with:\n\nHildesheim is home to notable multinational corporations – besides many strong medium-sized companies – including Blaupunkt, Bosch, Krupp, Thyssen, Fairchild and Coca-Cola.\n\nHildesheim has an efficient traffic infrastructure: it is a regional hub for interstate roads and railway (Hildesheim Hauptbahnhof is served by InterCityExpress services), is connected to the motorway (Autobahn), has a harbour at the artificial waterway Mittellandkanal and Hildesheim Betriebsgesellschaft Airfield.\n\nThe community has the headquarters of the Serbian Orthodox Eparchy of Frankfurt and all of Germany.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "364322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364322", "title": "Jesus in Christianity", "text": "Jesus in Christianity\n\nIn Christianity, Jesus is believed to be the Messiah (Christ) and through his crucifixion and resurrection, humans can be reconciled to God and thereby are offered salvation and the promise of eternal life. These teachings emphasize that as the willing Lamb of God, Jesus chose to suffer on the cross at Calvary as a sign of his full obedience to the will of God the Father, as an \"agent and servant of God\". The choice Jesus made thus counter-positions him as a new man of morality and obedience, in contrast to Adam's disobedience.\n\nChristians believe that Jesus was both human and divine—the Son of God. While there has been theological debate over the nature of Jesus, Trinitarian Christians believe that Jesus is the Logos, God incarnate, God the Son, and \"true God and true man\"—both fully divine and fully human. Jesus, having become fully human in all respects, suffered the pains and temptations of a mortal man, yet he did not sin. As fully God, he defeated death and rose to life again. According to the Bible, God raised him from the dead. He ascended to heaven to sit at the right hand of God, and he will return to earth again for the Last Judgment and the establishment of the Kingdom of God in the World to Come.\n\nAlthough Christian views of Jesus vary, it is possible to summarize key elements of the shared beliefs among major denominations based on their catechetical or confessional texts. Christian views of Jesus are derived from various biblical sources, particularly from the canonical Gospels and New Testament letters such as the Pauline epistles. Christians predominantly hold that these works are historically true.\n\nThose groups or denominations committed to what are considered biblically orthodox Christianity nearly all agree on the following points:\nSome groups considered within Christianity hold beliefs considered to unorthodox. For example, believers in monophysitism reject the idea that Christ was fully human and God at the same time. Others, such as the Latter-day Saints, consider Christ to be in possession of a fully physical body after his resurrection.\n\nThe five major milestones in the gospel narrative of the life of Jesus are his baptism, transfiguration, crucifixion, resurrection and ascension. These are usually bracketed by two other episodes: his nativity at the beginning and the sending of the Paraclete (Holy Spirit) at the end. The gospel accounts of the teachings of Jesus are often presented in terms of specific categories involving his \"works and words\", e.g., his ministry, parables and miracles.\n\nChristians not only attach theological significance to the \"works\" of Jesus, but also to his \"name\". New Testament Scriptures requisite the name of Jesus as the only way to be saved. Devotions to the name of Jesus go back to the earliest days of Christianity. These exist today both in Eastern and Western Christianity—both Catholic and Protestant.\n\nChristians predominantly profess that through Jesus' life, death, and resurrection, he restored humanity's communion with God with the blood of the New Covenant. His death on a cross is understood as a redemptive sacrifice: the source of humanity's salvation and the atonement for sin which had entered human history through the sin of Adam.\n\nMost Christians generally consider Jesus to be the Christ, the long-awaited Messiah, as well as the one and only Son of God. The opening words in the Gospel of Mark (), \"The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God\", provide Jesus with the two distinct attributions as Christ and as the Son of God. His divinity is again re-affirmed in . which begins by calling Jesus the Christ and explains it again with the affirmation: \"Jesus, who is called Christ\".\n\nIn the Pauline epistles, the word \"Christ\" is so closely associated with Jesus that apparently for the early Christians there was no need to claim that Jesus was Christ, for that was considered widely accepted among them. Hence Paul could use the term \"Christos\" with no confusion about who it referred to, and as in and he could use expressions such as \"in Christ\" to refer to the followers of Jesus.\n\nIn the New Testament, the title \"Son of God\" is applied to Jesus on many occasions. It is often used to refer to his divinity, from the beginning in the Annunciation up to the crucifixion. The declaration that Jesus is the Son of God is made by many individuals in the New Testament, and on two separate occasions by God the Father as a voice from Heaven, and is asserted by Jesus himself.\n\nIn Christology, the concept that \"the Christ\" is the \"Logos\" (i.e., \"The Word\") has been important in establishing the doctrine of the divinity of Christ and his position as God the Son in the Trinity as set forth in the Chalcedonian Creed. This derives from the , commonly translated into English as: \"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.\" In the original Greek, \"Logos\" (λόγος) is used for \"Word,\" and in theological discourse, this is often left in its English transliterated form, \"Logos\".\n\nThe \"pre-existence of Christ\" refers to the doctrine of the personal existence of Christ before his conception. One of the relevant Bible passages is where, in the Trinitarian view, Christ is identified with a pre-existent divine hypostasis called the Logos or Word. This doctrine is reiterated in when Jesus refers to the glory which he had with the Father \"before the world was\" during the Farewell discourse. also refers to the Father loving Jesus \"before the foundation of the world\". Non-Trinitarian views about the pre-existence of Christ vary, with some rejecting it and others accepting it.\n\nFollowing the Apostolic Age, from the 2nd century forward, several controversies developed about how the human and divine are related within the person of Jesus. Eventually in 451, the concept of a \"Hypostatic union\" was decreed, namely that Jesus is both fully divine and fully human. However, differences among Christian denominations continued thereafter, with some rejecting the hypostatic union in favor of monophysitisim.\n\nThe above verse from Colossians regards the birth of Jesus as the model for all creation.\nApostle Paul viewed the birth of Jesus as an event of cosmic significance which brought forth a \"new man\" who undid the damage caused by the fall of the first man, Adam. Just as the Johannine view of Jesus as the incarnate Logos proclaims the universal relevance of his birth, the Pauline perspective emphasizes the birth of a new man and a new world in the birth of Jesus. Paul's eschatological view of Jesus counter-positions him as a new man of morality and obedience, in contrast to Adam. Unlike Adam, the new man born in Jesus obeys God and ushers in a world of morality and salvation.\n\nIn the Pauline view, Adam is positioned as the first man and Jesus as the second: Adam, having corrupted himself by his disobedience, also infected humanity and left it with a curse as its inheritance. The birth of Jesus counterbalanced the fall of Adam, bringing forth redemption and repairing the damage done by Adam.\n\nIn the 2nd century Church Father Irenaeus writes:\n\"When He became incarnate and was made man, He commenced afresh the long line of human beings, and furnished us, in a brief, comprehensive manner, with salvation; so that what we had lost in Adam—namely to be according to the image and likeness of God- that we might recover in Christ Jesus.\"\nIn patristic theology, Paul's contrasting of Jesus as the new man versus Adam provided a framework for discussing the uniqueness of the birth of Jesus and the ensuing events of his life. The nativity of Jesus thus began to serve as the starting point for \"cosmic Christology\" in which the birth, life and resurrection of Jesus have universal implications. The concept of Jesus as the \"new man\" repeats in the cycle of birth and rebirth of Jesus from his nativity to his resurrection: following his birth, through his morality and obedience to the Father, Jesus began a \"new harmony\" in the relationship between God the Father and man. The nativity and resurrection of Jesus thus created the author and exemplar of a new humanity. In this view, the birth, death and resurrection of Jesus brought about salvation, undoing the damage of Adam.\n\nIn the canonical gospels, the Ministry of Jesus begins with his baptism in the countryside of Judea, near the River Jordan and ends in Jerusalem, following the Last Supper. The Gospel of Luke () states that Jesus was \"about 30 years of age\" at the start of his ministry. The date of the start of his ministry has been estimated at around AD 27-29 and the end in the range AD 30-36.\n\nJesus' early Galilean ministry begins when after his baptism, he goes back to Galilee from his time in the Judean desert. In this early period he preaches around Galilee and recruits his first disciples who begin to travel with him and eventually form the core of the early Church. The major Galilean ministry which begins in Matthew 8 includes the commissioning of the Twelve Apostles, and covers most of the ministry of Jesus in Galilee. The final Galilean ministry begins after the death of John the Baptist as Jesus prepares to go to Jerusalem.\n\nIn the later Judean ministry Jesus starts his final journey to Jerusalem through Judea. As Jesus travels towards Jerusalem, in the later Perean ministry, about one third the way down from the Sea of Galilee along the River Jordan, he returns to the area where he was baptized.\n\nThe final ministry in Jerusalem is sometimes called the \"Passion Week\" and begins with the Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem. The gospels provide more details about the final ministry than the other periods, devoting about one third of their text to the last week of the life of Jesus in Jerusalem.\n\nIn the New Testament the teachings of Jesus are presented in terms of his \"words and works\". The words of Jesus include several sermons, in addition to parables that appear throughout the narrative of the Synoptic Gospels (the gospel of John includes no parables). The works include the miracles and other acts performed during his ministry.\n\nAlthough the Canonical Gospels are the major source of the teachings of Jesus, the Pauline epistles, which were likely written decades before the gospels, provide some of the earliest written accounts of the teachings of Jesus.\n\nThe New Testament does not present the teachings of Jesus as merely his own teachings, but equates the words of Jesus with divine revelation, with John the Baptist stating in : \"For the one whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for God gives the Spirit without limit.\" and Jesus stating in : “My teaching is not my own. It comes from the one who sent me\". In Jesus claims divine knowledge, stating: \"No one knows the Son except the Father and no one knows the Father except the Son\", asserting the mutual knowledge he has with the Father.\n\nThe gospels include several discourses by Jesus on specific occasions, such as the Farewell discourse delivered after the Last Supper, the night before his crucifixion. Although some of the teachings of Jesus are reported as taking place within the formal atmosphere of a synagogue (e.g., in ) many of the discourses are more like conversations than formal lectures.\n\nThe Gospel of Matthew has a structured set of sermons, often grouped as the Five Discourses of Matthew which present many of the key teachings of Jesus. Each of the five discourses has some parallel passages in the Gospel of Mark or the Gospel of Luke. The five discourses in Matthew begin with the Sermon on the Mount, which encapsulates many of the moral teaching of Jesus and which is one of the best known and most quoted elements of the New Testament. The Sermon on the Mount includes the \"Beatitudes\" which describe the character of the people of the Kingdom of God, expressed as \"blessings\". The Beatitudes focus on love and humility rather than force and exaction and echo the key ideals of Jesus' teachings on spirituality and compassion. The other discourses in Matthew include the \"Missionary Discourse\" in Matthew 10 and the \"Discourse on the Church\" in Matthew 18, providing instructions to the disciples and laying the foundation of the codes of conduct for the anticipated community of followers.\n\nThe parables of Jesus represent a major component of his teachings in the gospels, the approximately thirty parables forming about one third of his recorded teachings. The parables may appear within longer sermons, as well as other places within the narrative. Jesus' parables are seemingly simple and memorable stories, often with imagery, and each conveys a teaching which usually relates the physical world to the spiritual world.\n\nIn the 19th century, Lisco and Fairbairn stated that in the parables of Jesus, \"the image borrowed from the visible world is accompanied by a truth from the invisible (spiritual) world\" and that the parables of Jesus are not \"mere similitudes which serve the purpose of illustration, but are internal analogies where nature becomes a witness for the spiritual world\". Similarly, in the 20th century, calling a parable \"an earthly story with a heavenly meaning\", William Barclay states that the parables of Jesus use familiar examples to lead others' minds towards heavenly concepts. He suggests that Jesus did not form his parables merely as analogies but based on an \"inward affinity between the natural and the spiritual order.\"\n\nIn Christian teachings, the miracles of Jesus were as much a vehicle for his message as were his words. Many of the miracles emphasize the importance of faith, for instance in cleansing ten lepers, Jesus did not say: \"My power has saved you\" but says \"Rise and go; your faith has saved you.\" Similarly, in the Walking on Water miracle, Apostle Peter learns an important lesson about faith in that as his faith wavers, he begins to sink. \n\nOne characteristic shared among all miracles of Jesus in the Gospel accounts is that he delivered benefits freely and never requested or accepted any form of payment for his healing miracles, unlike some high priests of his time who charged those who were healed. In he advised his disciples to heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse those who have leprosy, and drive out demons without payment and stated: \"Freely you have received; freely give\".\n\nChristians in general believe that Jesus' miracles were actual historical events and that his miraculous works were an important part of his life, attesting to his divinity and the Hypostatic union, i.e., the dual natures of Christ's humanity and divinity in one hypostasis. Christians believe that while Jesus' experiences of hunger, weariness, and death were evidences of his humanity, the miracles were evidences of his deity.\n\nChristian authors also view the miracles of Jesus not merely as acts of power and omnipotence, but as works of love and mercy: they were performed to show compassion for sinful and suffering humanity. Authors Ken and Jim Stocker state that \"every single miracle Jesus performed was an act of love\". And each miracle involves specific teachings.\n\nSince according to the Gospel of John it was impossible to narrate all the miracles performed by Jesus, the Catholic Encyclopedia states that the miracles presented in the Gospels were selected for a twofold reason: first for the manifestation of God's glory, and then for their evidential value. Jesus referred to his \"works\" as evidences of his mission and his divinity, and in he declared that his miracles have greater evidential value than the testimony of John the Baptist.\n\nThe accounts of the crucifixion and subsequent resurrection of Jesus provide a rich background for Christological analysis, from the canonical gospels to the Pauline epistles.\n\nJohannine \"agency christology\" combines the concept that Jesus is the Son of his Father with the idea that he has come into the world as his Father's agent, commissioned and sent by the Father to represent the Father and to accomplish his Father's work. Implied in each Synoptic portrayal of Jesus is the doctrine that the salvation Jesus gives is inseparable from Jesus himself and his divine identity. Sonship and agency come together in the Synoptic gospels only in the Parable of the Vineyard (; ; ). The submission of Jesus to crucifixion is a sacrifice made as an \"agent of God\" or \"servant of God\", for the sake of eventual victory. This builds upon the salvific theme of the Gospel of John which begins in with John the Baptist's proclamation: \"The Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world\". Further reinforcement of the concept is provided in where the \"lamb slain but standing\" is the only one worthy of handling the scroll (i.e., the book) containing the names of those who are to be saved.\n\nA central element in the Christology presented in the Acts of the Apostles is the affirmation of the belief that the death of Jesus by crucifixion happened \"with the foreknowledge of God, according to a definite plan\". In this view, as in , the cross is not viewed as a scandal, for the crucifixion of Jesus \"at the hands of the lawless\" is viewed as the fulfilment of the plan of God.\n\nPaul's Christology has a specific focus on the death and resurrection of Jesus. For Paul, the crucifixion of Jesus is directly related to his resurrection and the term \"the cross of Christ\" used in may be viewed as his abbreviation of the message of the gospels. For Paul, the crucifixion of Jesus was not an isolated event in history, but a cosmic event with significant eschatological consequences, as in . In the Pauline view, Jesus, obedient to the point of death () died \"at the right time\" () based on the plan of God. For Paul the \"power of the cross\" is not separable from the resurrection of Jesus.\n\nJohn Calvin supported the \"agent of God\" Christology and argued that in his trial in Pilate's Court Jesus could have successfully argued for his innocence, but instead submitted to crucifixion in obedience to the Father. This Christological theme continued into the 20th century, both in the Eastern and Western Churches. In the Eastern Church Sergei Bulgakov argued that the crucifixion of Jesus was \"pre-eternally\" determined by the Father before the creation of the world, to redeem humanity from the disgrace caused by the fall of Adam. In the Western Church, Karl Rahner elaborated on the analogy that the blood of the Lamb of God (and the water from the side of Jesus) shed at the crucifixion had a cleansing nature, similar to baptismal water.\n\nMormons believe that the crucifixion was the culmination of Christ's atonement, which began in the Garden of Gethsemane.\n\nThe New Testament teaches that the resurrection of Jesus is a foundation of the Christian faith. Christians, through faith in the working of God are spiritually resurrected with Jesus, and are redeemed so that they may walk in a new way of life.\n\nIn the teachings of the apostolic Church, the resurrection was seen as heralding a new era. Forming a theology of the resurrection fell to Apostle Paul. It was not enough for Paul to simply repeat elementary teachings, but as states, \"go beyond the initial teachings about Christ and advance to maturity\". Fundamental to Pauline theology is the connection between Christ's Resurrection and redemption. Paul explained the importance of the resurrection of Jesus as the cause and basis of the hope of Christians to share a similar experience in :\nBut Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead comes also through a man. For as in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive.\n\nIf the cross stands at the center of Paul's theology, so does the Resurrection: unless the one died the death of \"all\", the \"all\" would have little to celebrate in the resurrection of the one. Paul taught that, just as Christians share in Jesus' death in baptism, so they will share in his resurrection for Jesus was designated the Son of God by his resurrection. Paul's views went against the thoughts of the Greek philosophers to whom a bodily resurrection meant a new imprisonment in a corporeal body, which was what they wanted to avoid, given that for them the corporeal and the material fettered the spirit. At the same time, Paul believed that the newly resurrected body would be a heavenly body—immortal, glorified, powerful and pneumatic, in contrast to an earthly body which is mortal, dishonored, weak and psychic.\n\nThe Apostolic Fathers, discussed the death and resurrection of Jesus, including Ignatius (50−115), Polycarp (69−155), and Justin Martyr (100−165). Following the conversion of Constantine and the liberating Edict of Milan in 313, the ecumenical councils of the 4th, 5th and 6th centuries, that focused on Christology helped shape the Christian understanding of the redemptive nature of Resurrection, and influenced both the development of its iconography, and its use within Liturgy.\n\n"}
{"id": "30023670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30023670", "title": "Jewish-American comedy", "text": "Jewish-American comedy\n\nAmerican-Jewish comedy is, in part, a continuation of the traditional role of humor in Jewish culture among historical and contemporary American performers. It has appealed to both Jewish and wider mainstream audiences. At various times in American history, the field of comedy has been dominated by Jewish comedians.\n\nThe Borscht Belt arose in the early 20th century out of the tradition of Yiddish theater, in Jewish resort areas in the Catskill Mountains in New York. Many of the most famous Jewish comedians of the twentieth century launched their careers there. Many of the comedians gained a wider mainstream audience with the rise of Vaudeville.\n\nUntil recent years, most Jewish comedians adopted stage names that did not sound ethnic, as a way of gaining wider acceptance. Even among those who did not want to be considered Jewish comedians, their experiences as Jews were often included their humor, including their moral sensibility.\n\nSome common themes among American Jewish comedians include their heritage as Jews, experience of living between two worlds (ethnic and mainstream), anxiety of living as a minority in America and the foibles of American culture. Jewish comedy has often featured ridicule and insult jokes, including insulting other minority groups.\n\nCharacteristics of comedians include wit, verbal skills, self-mockery, and a \"critical edge\".\n\nWhereas women had not been prominent in comedic roles in Europe, the changing roles of Jewish women in America allowed for the emergence of a class of female Jewish comedians, who have focused on their perspective as women, often adopting a feminist position.\n\nFollowing is a partial list of notable Americans for whom Jewishness is relevant to their role as comedians or humorists.\n"}
{"id": "223215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223215", "title": "Jim Jones", "text": "Jim Jones\n\nJames Warren Jones (May 13, 1931 – November 18, 1978) was an American religious cult leader who, along with his inner circle, initiated and was responsible for a mass suicide and mass murder in Jonestown, Guyana.\n\nJones was the founder and leader of the Peoples Temple cult which he began in Indiana during the 1950s. He was officially ordained in 1956 by the Independent Assemblies of God and in 1964 by the Disciples of Christ. He moved the Temple to California in 1965 and gained notoriety with its activities in San Francisco in the early 1970s. He then relocated to Guyana.\nIn 1978, media reports surfaced that human rights abuses were taking place in the Peoples Temple in Jonestown. U.S. Representative Leo Ryan led a delegation into the commune to investigate what was going on; Ryan and others were murdered by gunfire while boarding a return flight with defectors. Jones subsequently committed a mass murder-suicide of 918 of his followers, 304 of whom were children, almost all by cyanide poisoning via Flavor Aid.\n\nJones was born on May 13, 1931, in a rural area of Crete, Indiana to James Thurman Jones (1887–1951), a World War I veteran, and Lynetta Putnam (1902–1977). Jones was of Irish and Welsh descent; he later claimed partial Cherokee ancestry through his mother, but his maternal second cousin later stated this was untrue. Economic difficulties during the Great Depression led to the Jones family moving to the town of Lynn in 1934, where Jones grew up in a shack without plumbing.\n\nAs a child, Jones was a voracious reader who studied Stalin, Marx, Mao, Gandhi and Hitler, carefully noting the strengths and weaknesses of each. Jones also developed an intense interest in religion, primarily because he found making friends difficult. Childhood acquaintances later recalled Jones as being a \"really weird kid\" who was \"obsessed with religion ... obsessed with death\". They alleged that he frequently held funerals for small animals on his parents' property and had stabbed a cat to death.\n\nJones and a childhood friend both claimed that his father, who was an alcoholic, was associated with the Ku Klux Klan, which had gained a stronghold in Depression-era Indiana. Jones, however, came to sympathize with the country's repressed African-American community due to his own experiences as a social outcast. Jones later recounted how he and his father clashed on the issue of race, and how he did not speak with his father for \"many, many years\" after he refused to allow one of Jones' black friends into the house. After James and Lynetta Jones separated, Jones moved with his mother to Richmond, Indiana. In December 1948 he graduated from Richmond High School early with honors.\n\nThe following year, 1949, Jones married Marceline Baldwin (1927–1978), a nurse, and the couple moved to Bloomington, Indiana. She later died with him in Jonestown. He attended Indiana University Bloomington, where a speech by Eleanor Roosevelt about the plight of African-Americans impressed him. In 1951, Jones moved to Indianapolis, where he attended night school at Butler University, earning a degree in secondary education in 1961, ten years after enrolling.\n\nIn 1951, Jones began attending gatherings of the Communist Party USA in Indianapolis. He became flustered with harassment during the McCarthy Hearings, particularly regarding an event he attended with his mother focusing on Paul Robeson, after which she was harassed by the FBI in front of her co-workers for attending. He also became frustrated with ostracism of open communists in the United States, especially during the trial of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. This frustration, among other things, provoked a seminal moment for Jones in which he asked himself, \"How can I demonstrate my Marxism? The thought was, infiltrate the church.\"\n\nJones was surprised when a Methodist district superintendent helped him get a start in the church, even though he knew Jones to be a communist. Jones had not met him through the Communist Party. In 1952, he became a student pastor at the Sommerset Southside Methodist Church, but later claimed he left that church because its leaders barred him from integrating blacks into his congregation. Around this time, Jones witnessed a faith-healing service at a Seventh Day Baptist Church. He observed that it attracted people and their money and concluded that, with financial resources from such healings, he could help accomplish his social goals.\n\nJones organized a mammoth religious convention to take place on June 11 through June 15, 1956, in a cavernous Indianapolis hall called Cadle Tabernacle. To draw the crowds, Jones needed a religious headliner, and so he arranged to share the pulpit with Rev. William M. Branham, a healing evangelist and religious author who at the time was as highly revered as Oral Roberts. Following the convention, Jones was able to launch his own church, which changed names until it became the Peoples Temple Christian Church Full Gospel. The Peoples Temple was initially launched as an inter-racial mission.\n\nIn 1960, Indianapolis Mayor Charles Boswell appointed Jones director of the Human Rights Commission. Jones ignored Boswell's advice to keep a low profile, finding new outlets for his views on local radio and television programs. When the mayor and other commissioners asked Jones to curtail his public actions, he resisted and was wildly cheered at a meeting of the NAACP and Urban League when he yelled for his audience to be more militant, and then climaxed with, \"Let my people go!\"\n\nDuring this time, Jones also helped to racially integrate churches, restaurants, the telephone company, the police department, a theater, an amusement park, and the Methodist Hospital. After swastikas were painted on the homes of two African-American families, Jones personally walked the neighborhood comforting local black people and counseling white families not to move, in order to prevent white flight.\n\nJones set up stings to catch restaurants refusing to serve black customers and wrote to American Nazi leaders and then passed their responses to the media. When Jones was accidentally placed in the black ward of a hospital after a collapse in 1961, he refused to be moved; he began to make the beds and empty the bed pans of black patients. Political pressures resulting from Jones' actions caused hospital officials to desegregate the wards.\n\nJones received considerable criticism in Indiana for his integrationist views. White-owned businesses and locals were critical of him. A swastika was placed on the Temple, a stick of dynamite was left in a Temple coal pile, and a dead cat was thrown at Jones' house after a threatening phone call. Other incidents occurred, although some suspect that Jones himself may have been involved in at least some of them.\n\nJim and Marceline Jones adopted several children of at least partly non-Caucasian ancestry; he referred to the household as his \"rainbow family\", and stated: \"Integration is a more personal thing with me now. It's a question of my son's future.\" and also portrayed the Temple overall as a \"rainbow family\".\n\nThe couple adopted three children of Korean-American ancestry: Lew, Suzanne and Stephanie. Jones had been encouraging Temple members to adopt orphans from war-ravaged Korea. He had also long been critical of U.S. opposition to communist leader Kim Il-Sung's 1950 invasion of South Korea, calling it the \"war of liberation\" and stating that \"the south is a living example of all that socialism in the north has overcome\". In 1954, he and his wife also adopted Agnes Jones, who was partly of Native American descent. Suzanne Jones was adopted at the age of six in 1959. In June 1959, the couple had their only biological child, Stephan Gandhi Jones.\n\nTwo years later in 1961, the Joneses became the first white couple in Indiana to adopt a black child, James Warren Jones, Jr. The couple also adopted another son, who was white, named Tim. Tim Jones, whose birth mother was a member of the Peoples Temple, was originally named Timothy Glen Tupper.\n\nAfter a 1961 Temple speech about a nuclear apocalypse, and a January 1962 \"Esquire\" magazine article listing Belo Horizonte, Brazil, as a safe place in a nuclear war, Jones traveled with his family to the city, with the idea of setting up a new Temple location. On his way to Brazil, Jones made his first trip into Guyana, then a British colony.\n\nAfter arriving in Belo Horizonte, the Joneses rented a modest three-bedroom home. Jones studied the local economy and receptiveness of racial minorities to his message, although language remained a barrier. He also explored local Brazilian syncretic religions. Jones was careful not to portray himself as a communist in a foreign territory and spoke of an apostolic communal lifestyle rather than of Castro or Marx. Ultimately, the lack of resources in the locale led the Joneses to move to Rio de Janeiro in mid-1963. There, they worked with the poor in Rio's slums.\n\nJones became plagued by guilt for leaving behind the Indiana civil rights struggle and possibly losing what he had tried to build there. When Jones' associate preachers in Indiana told him that the Temple was about to collapse without him, he returned.\n\nWhen Jones returned from Brazil in December 1963, he told his Indiana congregation that the world would be engulfed by nuclear war on July 15, 1967, that would then create a new socialist Eden on Earth, and that the Temple had to move to Northern California for safety. Accordingly, the Temple began moving to Redwood Valley, California, near the city of Ukiah.\n\nAccording to religious studies professor Catherine Wessinger, while Jones always spoke of the social gospel's virtues, he chose to conceal that his gospel was actually communism until the late 1960s. By that time, Jones began at least partially revealing the details of his \"Apostolic Socialism\" concept in Temple sermons. He also taught that \"those who remained drugged with the opiate of religion had to be brought to enlightenment – socialism\". Jones often mixed these ideas, such as preaching that, \"If you're born in capitalist America, racist America, fascist America, then you're born in sin. But if you're born in socialism, you're not born in sin.\"\n\nBy the early 1970s, Jones began deriding traditional Christianity as \"fly away religion\", rejecting the Bible as being a tool to oppress women and non-whites, and denouncing a \"Sky God\" who was no God at all. Jones wrote a booklet titled \"The Letter Killeth\", criticizing the King James Bible. Jones also began preaching that he was the reincarnation of Gandhi, Father Divine, Jesus, Gautama Buddha, and Vladimir Lenin. Former Temple member Hue Fortson, Jr. quoted Jones as saying, \"What you need to believe in is what you can see ... If you see me as your friend, I'll be your friend. As you see me as your father, I'll be your father, for those of you that don't have a father ... If you see me as your savior, I'll be your savior. If you see me as your God, I'll be your God.\"\n\nIn a 1976 phone conversation with John Maher, Jones alternately stated that he was an agnostic and an atheist. Despite the Temple's fear that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) was investigating its religious tax exemption, Marceline Jones admitted in a 1977 \"New York Times\" interview that Jones was trying to promote Marxism in the U.S. by mobilizing people through religion, citing Mao as his inspiration. She stated: \"Jim used religion to try to get some people out of the opiate of religion\", and had slammed the Bible on the table yelling \"I've got to destroy this paper idol!\" In one sermon, Jones said, \"You're gonna help yourself, or you'll get no help! There's only one hope of glory; that's within you! Nobody's gonna come out of the sky! There's no heaven up there! We'll have to make heaven down here!\"\n\nWithin five years of moving to California, the Temple experienced a period of exponential growth and opened branches in cities including San Fernando, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. By the early 1970s, Jones began shifting his focus to major cities because of limited expansion opportunities in Ukiah. He eventually moved the Temple's headquarters to San Francisco, which was a major center for radical protest movements at the time. The move led Jones and the Temple to become politically influential in San Francisco politics, culminating in the Temple's instrumental role in the mayoral election victory of George Moscone in 1975. Moscone subsequently appointed Jones as the chairman of the San Francisco Housing Authority Commission.\n\nUnlike most cult leaders, Jones was able to gain public support and contact with prominent politicians at the local and national level. For example, Jones and Moscone met privately with vice presidential candidate Walter Mondale on his campaign plane days before the 1976 election, leading Mondale to publicly praise the Temple. First Lady Rosalynn Carter also personally met with Jones on multiple occasions, corresponded with him about Cuba, and spoke with him at the grand opening of the San Francisco headquarters, where he received louder applause than Mrs. Carter.\n\nIn September 1977, California assemblyman Willie Brown served as master of ceremonies at a large testimonial dinner for Jones attended by Governor Jerry Brown and Lieutenant Governor Mervyn Dymally. At that dinner, Brown touted Jones as \"what you should see every day when you look in the mirror in the early morning hours... a combination of Martin Luther King, Jr., Angela Davis, Albert Einstein [ ⁠and ⁠] Chairman Mao\". Harvey Milk, who spoke at political rallies at the Temple, wrote to Jones after one such visit: \"Rev Jim, It may take me many a day to come back down from the high that I reach today. I found something dear today. I found a sense of being that makes up for all the hours and energy placed in a fight. I found what you wanted me to find. I shall be back. For I can never leave.\"\n\nIn his San Francisco apartment, Jones hosted local political figures, including Davis, for discussions. He spoke with friend and \"San Francisco Sun-Reporter\" publisher Carlton Goodlett about his remorse over not being able to travel to socialist countries such as the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union, speculating that he could be Chief Dairyman of the U.S.S.R. After his criticisms led to increased tensions with the Nation of Islam, Jones spoke at a huge rally healing the rift between the two groups in the Los Angeles Convention Center that was attended by many of Jones' closest political acquaintances.\n\nWhile Jones forged alliances with key columnists and others at the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" and other press outlets, the move to San Francisco also brought increasing media scrutiny. After \"Chronicle\" reporter Marshall Kilduff encountered resistance to publishing an exposé, he brought his story to \"New West\" magazine. In the summer of 1977, Jones and several hundred Temple members abruptly decided to move to the Temple's compound in Guyana after they learned of the contents of an article by Kilduff about to be published, which included allegations by former Temple members that they were physically, emotionally, and sexually abused. Jones named the settlement \"Jonestown\" after himself.\n\nJones had first started building Jonestown, formally known as the \"Peoples Temple Agricultural Project\", several years before the \"New West\" article was published. Jonestown was promoted as a means to create both a \"socialist paradise\" and a \"sanctuary\" from the media scrutiny in San Francisco. Jones purported to establish Jonestown as a benevolent model communist community stating, \"I believe we're the purest communists there are.\" In that regard, like the restrictive emigration policies of the Soviet Union, Cuba, North Korea and other communist states, Jones did not permit members to leave Jonestown.\n\nReligious scholar Mary McCormick Maaga argues that Jones' authority decreased after he moved to the isolated commune, because he was not needed for recruitment and he could not hide his drug addiction from rank and file members. In spite of the allegations prior to Jones' departure, the leader was still respected by some for setting up a racially mixed church which helped the disadvantaged ⁠— ⁠68% of Jonestown's residents were black. In Jonestown, Jones started to propagate his belief in what he termed \"Translation\", where he and his followers would all die together and move to another planet and live blissfully.\n\nJones claimed that he was the biological father of John Victor Stoen, although the birth certificate listed Temple attorney Timothy Stoen and his wife Grace as the parents of the child. The Temple repeatedly claimed that Jones fathered the child when, in 1971, Stoen had requested that Jones have sex with Grace to keep her from defecting. Grace defected from the Temple in 1976 and began divorce proceedings against Tim the following year. In order to avoid potentially giving up the boy in a custody dispute with Grace, Jones ordered Tim to take John to Guyana in February 1977. After Tim himself defected in June 1977, the Temple kept John Stoen in Jonestown.\n\nIn addition to John Stoen, Jones fathered another son, Jim Jon (Kimo), with Carolyn Louise Moore Layton, a Temple member.\n\nIn the autumn of 1977, Tim Stoen and other Temple defectors with relatives in Jonestown formed a \"Concerned Relatives\" group. Stoen traveled to Washington, D.C. in January 1978 to visit with State Department officials and members of Congress, and wrote a white paper detailing his grievances against Jones and the Temple. Stoen's efforts aroused the curiosity of California Congressman Leo Ryan, who wrote a letter on Stoen's behalf to Guyanese Prime Minister Forbes Burnham. The Concerned Relatives also began a legal battle with the Temple over the custody of Stoen's son John.\n\nWhile most of Jones's political allies broke ties after his departure, some did not. As a show of support, Willie Brown spoke out against enemies at a rally at the Temple, which was also attended by Harvey Milk and then-Assemblyman Art Agnos. On February 19, 1978, Milk wrote a letter to President Jimmy Carter defending Jones \"as a man of the highest character\", and claimed that Temple defectors were trying to \"damage Rev. Jones' reputation\" with \"apparent bold-faced lies\". Moscone's office issued a press release saying that Jones had broken no laws.\n\nOn April 11, 1978, the Concerned Relatives distributed a packet of documents, including letters and affidavits, that they titled an \"Accusation of Human Rights Violations by Rev. James Warren Jones\" to the Peoples Temple, members of the press, and members of Congress. In June 1978, escaped Temple member Deborah Layton provided the group with a further affidavit detailing alleged crimes by the Temple and substandard living conditions in Jonestown.\n\nJones was facing increasing scrutiny in the summer of 1978 when he hired JFK assassination conspiracy theorists Mark Lane and Donald Freed to help make the case of a \"grand conspiracy\" by U.S. intelligence agencies against the Temple. Jones told Lane he wanted to \"pull an Eldridge Cleaver\", referring to a fugitive Black Panther who was able to return to the U.S. after repairing his reputation.\n\nIn November 1978, Leo Ryan led a fact-finding mission to Jonestown to investigate allegations of human rights abuses. His delegation included relatives of Temple members, an NBC camera crew, and reporters for various newspapers. The group arrived in the Guyanese capital of Georgetown on November 15. Two days later, they traveled by airplane to Port Kaituma, then were transported to the Jonestown encampment in a limousine. Jones hosted a reception for the Ryan delegation that evening at the central pavilion in Jonestown.\n\nThe delegation left hurriedly the afternoon of November 18 after Temple member Don Sly attacked Ryan with a knife. The attack was thwarted, bringing the visit to an abrupt end. Ryan and his delegation managed to take along fifteen Temple members who had expressed a wish to leave. At that time, Jones made no attempt to prevent their departure.\n\nAs members of the delegation boarded two planes at the airstrip, Jones' armed guards, called the \"Red Brigade,\" arrived on a tractor and trailer and began shooting at them. The gunmen killed Ryan and four others near a Guyana Airways Twin Otter aircraft. At the same time, one of the supposed defectors, Larry Layton, drew a weapon and began firing on members of the party that had already boarded a small Cessna. An NBC cameraman was able to capture footage of the first few seconds of the shooting at the Otter.\nThe five killed at the airstrip were Ryan; NBC reporter Don Harris; NBC cameraman Bob Brown; \"San Francisco Examiner\" photographer Greg Robinson; and Temple member Patricia Parks. Surviving the attack were future Congresswoman Jackie Speier, then a staff member for Ryan; Richard Dwyer, the Deputy Chief of Mission from the U.S. Embassy at Georgetown; Bob Flick, a producer for NBC; Steve Sung, an NBC sound engineer; Tim Reiterman, a \"San Francisco Examiner\" reporter; Ron Javers, a \"San Francisco Chronicle\" reporter; Charles Krause, a \"Washington Post\" reporter; and several defecting Temple members.\n\nLater that same day, 909 inhabitants of Jonestown, 304 of them children, died of apparent cyanide poisoning, mostly in and around the settlement's main pavilion. This resulted in the greatest single loss of American civilian life in a deliberate act until the September 11 attacks. The FBI later recovered a 45-minute audio recording of the suicide in progress.\n\nOn that tape, Jones tells Temple members that the Soviet Union, with whom the Temple had been negotiating a potential exodus for months, would not take them after the airstrip murders. The reason given by Jones to commit suicide was consistent with his previously stated conspiracy theories of intelligence organizations allegedly conspiring against the Temple, that men would \"parachute in here on us\", \"shoot some of our innocent babies\" and \"they'll torture our children, they'll torture some of our people here, they'll torture our seniors\". Parroting Jones' prior statements that hostile forces would convert captured children to fascism, one Temple member states \"the ones that they take captured, they're gonna just let them grow up and be dummies\".\n\nWith that reasoning, Jones and several members argued that the group should commit \"revolutionary suicide\" by drinking cyanide-laced grape-flavored Flavor Aid. Later-released Temple films show Jones opening a storage container full of Kool-Aid in large quantities. However, empty packets of grape Flavor Aid found on the scene show that this is what was used to mix the solution, along with a sedative. One member, Christine Miller, dissents toward the beginning of the tape.\n\nWhen members apparently cried, Jones counseled, \"Stop these hysterics. This is not the way for people who are socialists or communists to die. No way for us to die. We must die with some dignity.\" Jones can be heard saying, \"Don't be afraid to die\", that death is \"just stepping over into another plane\" and that it's \"a friend\". At the end of the tape, Jones concludes: \"We didn't commit suicide; we committed an act of revolutionary suicide protesting the conditions of an inhumane world.\"\n\nAccording to escaping Temple members, children were given the drink first and families were told to lie down together. Mass suicide had been previously discussed in simulated events called \"White Nights\" on a regular basis. During at least one such prior White Night, members drank liquid that Jones falsely told them was poison.\n\nFollowing the mass murder-suicide, Jones was found dead on the floor resting on a pillow near his deck chair, with a gunshot wound to his head that Guyanese coroner Cyrill Mootoo stated was consistent with a self-inflicted gunshot wound. His body was later dragged outside for examination and embalming. The official autopsy conducted in December 1978 also confirms his death as a suicide. Jones' son Stephan believes his father may have directed someone else to shoot him, but that is just speculation. An autopsy of Jones' body also showed levels of the barbiturate Pentobarbital which may have been lethal to humans who had not developed physiological tolerance.\n\nJones married Marceline Baldwin in 1949. He began his first affair in 1968 with a woman named Carolyn Layton. He also had many other mistresses during the 1970s; before the move to Jonestown and while in Jonestown. The book \"The Road to Jonestown\" by Jeff Guinn states: \"Jones had occasional sex with male followers\" but \"never as often as he did with women.\" It states he was most likely bisexual, but his main physical and sexual attraction was definitely towards women.\n\nOn December 13, 1973, Jones was arrested and charged with lewd conduct, masturbating in a movie theater restroom near MacArthur Park in Los Angeles. The decoy was an undercover LAPD vice officer. Jones is on record as later telling his followers that he was \"the only true heterosexual\", but at least one account exists of his sexual abuse of a male member of his congregation in front of the followers, ostensibly to prove the man's own homosexual tendencies.\n\nWhile Jones banned sex among Temple members outside marriage, he voraciously engaged in sexual relations with both male and female Temple members. Jones, however, claimed that he detested engaging in homosexual activity and did so only for the male temple adherents' own good, purportedly to connect them symbolically with him (Jones).\n\nOne of Jones' sources of inspiration was the International Peace Mission movement leader Father Divine.\n\nOn the final morning of Ryan's visit, Jones' wife Marceline took reporters on a tour of Jonestown. Later in the day, she was found dead at the pavilion, having been poisoned.\n\nStephan, Jim Jr., and Tim Jones did not take part in the mass suicide because they were playing with the Peoples Temple basketball team against the Guyanese national team in Georgetown. At the time of events in Jonestown, Stephan and Tim were both nineteen and Jim Jones Jr. was eighteen. Tim's biological family, the Tuppers, which consisted of his three biological sisters, biological brother, and biological mother, all died at Jonestown. Three days before the tragedy, Stephan Jones refused, over the radio, to comply with an order by his father to return the team to Jonestown for Ryan's visit.\n\nDuring the events at Jonestown, Stephan, Tim, and Jim Jones Jr. drove to the U.S. Embassy in Georgetown in an attempt to receive help. The Guyanese soldiers guarding the embassy refused to let them in after hearing about the shootings at the Port Kaituma airstrip. Later, the three returned to the Temple's headquarters in Georgetown to find the bodies of Sharon Amos and her three children. Guyanese soldiers kept the Jones brothers under house arrest for five days, interrogating them about the deaths in Georgetown.\n\nStephan Jones was accused of being involved in the Georgetown deaths, and was placed in a Guyanese prison for three months. Tim Jones and Johnny Cobb, another member of the Peoples Temple basketball team, were asked to go to Jonestown and help identify the bodies of people who had died. After returning to the United States, Jim Jones Jr. was placed under police surveillance for several months while he lived with his older sister, Suzanne, who had previously turned against the Temple.\nWhen Jonestown was first being established, Stephan had originally avoided two attempts by his father to relocate to the settlement. He eventually moved to Jonestown after a third and final attempt. He has since said that he gave in to his father's wishes to move to Jonestown because of his mother. Stephan Jones is now a businessman, and married with three daughters. He appeared in the documentary \"Jonestown: Paradise Lost\" which aired on the History Channel and Discovery Channel. He stated he will not watch the documentary and has never grieved for his father. One year later, he appeared in the documentary \"Witness to Jonestown\" where he responds to rare footage shot inside the Peoples Temple.\n\nJim Jones Jr., who lost his wife and unborn child at Jonestown, returned to San Francisco. He remarried and has three sons from this marriage, including Rob Jones, a high-school basketball star who went on to play for the University of San Diego before transferring to Saint Mary's College of California.\n\nLew and Agnes Jones both died at Jonestown. Agnes Jones was thirty-five years old at the time of her death. Her husband and four children all died at Jonestown. Lew Jones, who was twenty-one years old at the time of his death, died alongside his wife Terry and son Chaeoke. Stephanie Jones had died at age five in a car accident in May 1959.\n\nSuzanne Jones married Mike Cartmell; they both turned against the Temple and were not in Jonestown on November 18, 1978. After this decision to abandon the Temple, Jones referred to Suzanne openly as \"my goddamned, no good for nothing daughter\" and stated that she was not to be trusted. In a signed note found at the time of her death, Marceline Jones directed that the Jones' funds were to be given to the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and specified: \"I especially request that none of these are allowed to get into the hands of my adopted daughter, Suzanne Jones Cartmell.\" Cartmell had two children and died of colon cancer in November 2006.\n\nSpecific references to Tim Stoen, the father of John Stoen, including the logistics of possibly murdering him, are made on the Temple's final \"death tape\", as well as a discussion over whether the Temple should include John Stoen among those committing \"revolutionary suicide\". At Jonestown, John Stoen was found poisoned in Jim Jones' cabin.\n\nJim Jon (Kimo) and his mother, Carolyn Louise Moore Layton, both died during the events at Jonestown.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53889958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53889958", "title": "John Hickes (minister)", "text": "John Hickes (minister)\n\nJohn Hickes or Hicks (1633–1685), was an English nonconformist minister.\n\nHickes was the brother of George Hickes, born at Moorhouse, Kirby Wiske, North Riding of Yorkshire. He was a student and then fellow of Trinity College, Dublin. He was ejected from Saltash, Cornwall after the Uniformity Act of 1662.\n\nHickes presented a petition to Charles II in favour of nonconformists. Under James II he joined the Duke of Monmouth's Rebellion in 1685 and was sheltered by Alice Lisle. He was tried and executed at Taunton.\n"}
{"id": "47811387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47811387", "title": "Kotoshironushi", "text": "Kotoshironushi\n\nKotoshironushi , a.k.a. Yae Kotoshironushi no kami is a Shinto deity in Japanese religion\n\nIn the Kojiki, Kotoshironushi is portrayed as the son of Ōkuninushi, the earthly deity of Izumo province. When the heavenly deities sent Takemikazuchi to conquer Izumo, Ōkuninushi deferred the decision over whether to resist to his two sons. Kotoshironushi, who had been fishing at the time of Takemikizuchi's arrival, agreed to accept the rule of the heavenly gods, surrendered his spear and left Izumo. His brother Takeminakata fought with Takemikazuchi and was defeated.\n\nKotoshironushi is the principal deity of the Asuka shrine, and is associated with the god Ebisu. In mythology, he was an advisor to Empress Jingū during her invasion of Korea, and was one of the eight deities charged with protecting the Imperial Court. His daughter Himetataraisuzuhime became the consort of Emperor Jimmu.\n"}
{"id": "82852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82852", "title": "Limnad", "text": "Limnad\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Limnads (; Ancient Greek: Λιμνάδες) or Limnatides (Ancient Greek: Λιμνατιδες) or Leimenids (; Ancient Greek: Λειμενίδες) were a type of Naiad.\n\nThe Limnads are Naiads that lived in freshwater lakes. Their parents were the Potamoi (river gods) or the lake gods.\n\nThe number of Limnads includes but is not limited to: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4732492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4732492", "title": "List of encyclicals of Pope Pius XII", "text": "List of encyclicals of Pope Pius XII\n\n<onlyinclude>\nThis is a list of encyclicals of Pope Pius XII. Pius XII promulgated 41 papal encyclicals, during his reign as pope for over 19 years, from his election of March 2, 1939, until his death on October 9, 1958.</onlyinclude> The 41 encyclicals of Pius XII exceed the 32 encyclicals written by all his successors (John XXIII, Paul VI, John Paul I, John Paul II, and Benedict XVI) during the fifty years that followed (1958–2008).\n\n<onlyinclude>\n</includeonly></onlyinclude>\n\nAn encyclical (from Latin \"encyclia\", from the Greek \"en kyklo, \", meaning \"general\" or \"encircling\") was a circular letter sent to all the churches of a particular area in the ancient Christian church. For the modern Roman Catholic Church, a Papal Encyclical, in the strictest sense, is a letter sent by the pope which is explicitly addressed to Roman Catholic bishops of a particular area or to the world, usually treating some aspect of Catholic doctrine. A Papal Encyclical is generally used for significant issues, and is second in importance only to the highest-ranking document now issued by popes, an Apostolic Constitution. \n\nThe title of a Papal Encyclical is usually taken from its first few words.\n\nPope Pius XII held that papal encyclicals, even when they are not \"ex cathedra\", can nonetheless be sufficiently authoritative to end theological debate on a particular question: \n\nEncyclicals indicate high Papal priority for an issue at a given time. Only pontiffs define when, and under which circumstances encyclicals should be issued. They may choose to issue an apostolic constitution, bull, encyclical, apostolic letter or give a papal speech. Pontiffs differ on the use of encyclicals. On the issue of birth control and contraception, for example, Pope Pius XI issued the encyclical \"Casti connubii\", while Pope Pius XII spoke to midwives and the medical profession when he clarified his position on the issue. Pope Paul VI published an encyclical \"Humanae vitae\" on the same topic. On matters of war and peace, Pope Pius XII issued ten encyclicals, most of them after 1945, three of them (\"Datis nuperrime\", \"Sertum laetitiae\", and \"Luctuosissimi eventus\") protesting the Soviet invasion and crackdown of the Hungarian revolution in 1956. Pope Paul VI spoke about the war in Vietnam and Pope John Paul II, issued his protest against the war in Iraq in speeches. On social issues, Pope Leo XIII promulgated \"Rerum novarum\", followed by \"Quadragesimo anno\" by Pius XI, and \"Centesimus annus\" by John Paul II. Pius XII spoke on the same topic to a consistory of cardinals in his Christmas messages and to numerous academic and professional associations. The magisterium of Pius XII is therefore significantly larger than the below listed 41 encyclicals. Most of the detailed teachings are in his papal speeches on specific topics such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4109467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4109467", "title": "List of knowledge deities", "text": "List of knowledge deities\n\nA knowledge deity is a deity in mythology associated with knowledge, wisdom, or intelligence.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20897194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20897194", "title": "List of largest mosques", "text": "List of largest mosques\n\nThis is a list of mosques that can accommodate at least 5,000 worshipers.\n\nA mosque, or masjid, is a place of worship for followers of Islam. Mosques listed here are of any religious branch which regards themselves as Muslim.\n\nThe default listing is alphabetical; to sort using different criteria, click on the desired column headers. Whilst claims are made about the relative size of mosques many of these claims are not easily substantiated. \"Largest\" is at best a vague term, which is often not qualified by claimants. Accepted measures of largeness could include area, volume, length, width, height, and/or capacity, although the last is far more subjective. It is important to note therefore that mosques may claim to be \"the largest\" based on only one of these measurements; and thus that there may be several mosques that have equal claim to be \"the largest mosque\". Since there is no official body governing these claims, there is no generally accepted criterion for being \"the largest mosque\".\n\n"}
{"id": "169033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169033", "title": "Luis Buñuel", "text": "Luis Buñuel\n\nLuis Buñuel Portolés (; 22 February 1900 – 29 July 1983) was a Spanish filmmaker who worked in Spain, Mexico and France.\n\nWhen Luis Buñuel died at age 83, his obituary in \"The New York Times\" called him \"an iconoclast, moralist, and revolutionary who was a leader of avant-garde surrealism in his youth and a dominant international movie director half a century later\". His first picture, \"Un Chien Andalou\"—made in the silent era—was called \"the most famous short film ever made\" by critic Roger Ebert, and his last film, \"That Obscure Object of Desire\"—made 48 years later—won him Best Director awards from the National Board of Review and the National Society of Film Critics. Writer Octavio Paz called Buñuel's work \"the marriage of the film image to the poetic image, creating a new reality...scandalous and subversive\".\n\nOften associated with the surrealist movement of the 1920s, Buñuel created films from the 1920s through the 1970s. His work spans two continents, three languages, and an array of genres, including experimental film, documentary, melodrama, satire, musical, erotica, comedy, romance, costume dramas, fantasy, crime film, adventure, and western. Despite this variety, filmmaker John Huston believed that, regardless of genre, a Buñuel film is so distinctive as to be instantly recognizable, or, as Ingmar Bergman put it, \"Buñuel nearly always made Buñuel films\".\n\nSix of Buñuel's films are included in \"Sight & Sound\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s 2012 critics' poll of the top 250 films of all time. Fifteen of his films are included in the \"They Shoot Pictures, Don't They?\" list of the 1,000 greatest films of all time, for which he ranks second only to Jean-Luc Godard, with sixteen, and he ranks number 13 on their list of the top 250 directors.\n\nBuñuel was born in Calanda, a small town in the province of Teruel, in the Aragon region of Spain, to Leonardo Buñuel, the cultivated scion of an established Aragonese family, and María Portolés, many years younger than her husband, with wealth and family connections of her own. He would later describe his birthplace by saying that in Calanda, \"the Middle Ages lasted until World War I\". The oldest of seven children, Luis had two brothers, Alfonso and Leonardo, and four sisters: Alicia, Concepción, Margarita and María.\n\nWhen Buñuel was four and a half months old, the family moved to Zaragoza, where they were one of the wealthiest families in town. In Zaragoza, Buñuel received a strict Jesuit education at the private Colegio del Salvador. After being kicked and insulted by the study hall proctor before a final exam, Buñuel refused to return to the school. He told his mother he had been expelled, which was not true; in fact, he had received the highest marks on his world history exam. Buñuel finished the last two years of his high school education at the local public school. Even as a child, Buñuel was something of a cinematic showman; friends from that period described productions in which Buñuel would project shadows on a screen using a magic lantern and a bedsheet. He also excelled at boxing and playing the violin.\n\nIn his youth, Buñuel was deeply religious, serving at Mass and taking Communion every day, until, at the age of 16, he grew disgusted with what he perceived as the illogicality of the Church, along with its power and wealth.\n\nIn 1917, he attended the University of Madrid, first studying agronomy then industrial engineering and finally switching to philosophy. He developed a very close relationship with painter Salvador Dalí and poet Federico García Lorca, among other important Spanish creative artists living in the Residencia de Estudiantes, with the three friends forming the nucleus of the Spanish Surrealist avant-garde, and becoming known as members of \"La Generación del 27\". Buñuel was especially taken with Lorca, later writing in his autobiography: \"We liked each other instantly. Although we seemed to have little in common—I was a redneck from Aragon, and he an elegant Andalusian—we spent most of our time together... We used to sit on the grass in the evenings behind the Residencia (at that time, there were vast open spaces reaching to the horizon), and he would read me his poems. He read slowly and beautifully, and through him I began to discover a wholly new world.\" Buñuel's relationship with Dalí was somewhat more troubled, being tinged with jealousy over the growing intimacy between Dalí and Lorca and resentment over Dalí's early success as an artist.\n\nSince he was 17, he steadily dated the future poet and dramatist Concha Méndez, with whom he vacationed every summer at San Sebastián. He introduced her to his friends at the Residencia as his fiancée. After five years, she broke off the relationship, citing Buñuel's \"insufferable character\".\n\nDuring his student years, Buñuel became an accomplished hypnotist. He claimed that once, while calming a hysterical prostitute through hypnotic suggestion, he inadvertently put one of the several bystanders into a trance as well. He was often to insist that watching movies was a form of hypnosis: \"This kind of cinematographic hypnosis is no doubt due to the darkness of the theatre and to the rapidly changing scenes, lights, and camera movements, which weaken the spectator's critical intelligence and exercise over him a kind of fascination.\"\n\nBuñuel's interest in films was intensified by a viewing of Fritz Lang's \"Der müde Tod\": \"I came out of the Vieux Colombier [theater] completely transformed. Images could and did become for me the true means of expression. I decided to devote myself to the cinema\". At age 72, Buñuel had not lost his enthusiasm for this film, asking the octogenarian Lang for his autograph.\n\nIn 1925 Buñuel moved to Paris, where he began work as a secretary in an organization called the International Society of Intellectual Cooperation. He also became actively involved in cinema and theater, going to the movies as often as three times a day. Through these interests, he met a number of influential people, including the pianist Ricardo Viñes, who was instrumental in securing Buñuel's selection as artistic director of the Dutch premiere of Manuel de Falla's puppet-opera \"El retablo de maese Pedro\" in 1926.\n\nHe decided to enter the film industry and enrolled in a private film school run by Jean Epstein and some associates. At that time, Epstein was one of the most celebrated commercial directors working in France, his films being hailed as \"the triumph of impressionism in motion, but also the triumph of the modern spirit\". Before long, Buñuel was working for Epstein as an assistant director on \"Mauprat\" (1926) and \"La chute de la maison Usher\" (1928), and also for Mario Nalpas on \"La Sirène des Tropiques\" (1927), starring Josephine Baker. He appeared on screen in a small part as a smuggler in Jacques Feyder's \"Carmen\" (1926).\n\nWhen Buñuel somewhat derisively refused to acquiesce to Epstein's demand that he assist Epstein's mentor, Abel Gance, who was at the time working on the film \"Napoléon\", Epstein dismissed him angrily, saying \"How can a little asshole like you dare to talk that way about a great director like Gance?\" then added \"You seem rather surrealist. Beware of surrealists, they are crazy people.\"\n\nAfter parting with Epstein, Buñuel worked as film critic for \"La Gaceta Literaria\" (1927) and \"Les Cahiers d'Art\" (1928). In the periodicals \"L'Amic de les Arts\" and \"La gaseta de les Arts\", he and Dalí carried on a series of \"call and response\" essays on cinema and theater, debating such technical issues as segmentation, découpage, \"photogenia\" (founded on the insert shot) and rhythmic editing. He also collaborated with the celebrated writer Ramón Gómez de la Serna on the script for what he hoped would be his first film, \"a story in six scenes\" called \"Los caprichos\". Through his involvement with \"Gaceta Literaria\", he helped establish Madrid's first cine-club and served as its inaugural chairman.\n\nIt was during this time that he met his future wife, Jeanne Rucar Lefebvre, a gymnastics teacher who had won an Olympic bronze medal. Buñuel courted her in a formal Aragonese manner, complete with a chaperone, and they married in 1934 despite a warning by Jean Epstein when Buñuel first proposed in 1930: \"Jeanne, you are making a mistake... It's not right for you, don't marry him.\" The two remained married throughout his life and had two sons, Juan Luis and Rafael. Diego Buñuel, filmmaker and host of the National Geographic Channel's \"Don't Tell My Mother\" series, is their grandson.\n\nAfter this apprenticeship, Buñuel shot \nand directed a 16-minute short, \"Un Chien Andalou\", with Salvador Dalí. The film, financed by Buñuel's mother, consists of a series of startling images of a Freudian nature, starting with a woman's eyeball being sliced open with a razor blade. \"Un Chien Andalou\" was enthusiastically received by the burgeoning French surrealist movement of the time and continues to be shown regularly in film societies to this day.\n\nThe script was written in six days at Dalí's home in Cadaqués. In a letter to a friend written in February 1929, Buñuel described the writing process: \"We had to look for the plot line. Dalí said to me, 'I dreamed last night of ants swarming around in my hands', and I said, 'Good Lord, and I dreamed that I had sliced somebody or other's eye. There's the film, let's go and make it.'\" In deliberate contrast to the approach taken by Jean Epstein and his peers, which was to never leave anything in their work to chance, with every aesthetic decision having a rational explanation and fitting clearly into the whole, Buñuel and Dalí made a cardinal point of eliminating all logical\nassociations. In Buñuel's words: \"Our only rule was very simple: no idea or image that might lend itself to a rational explanation of any kind would be accepted. We had to open all doors to the irrational and keep only those images that surprised us, without trying to explain why\".\n\nIt was Buñuel's intention to shock and insult the intellectual bourgeoisie of his youth, later saying: \"Historically the film represents a violent reaction against what in those days was called 'avant-garde,' which was aimed exclusively at artistic sensibility and the audience's reason.\" Against his hopes and expectations, the film was a huge success amongst the French bourgeoisie, leading Buñuel to exclaim in exasperation, \"What can I do about the people who adore all that is new, even when it goes against their deepest convictions, or about the insincere, corrupt press, and the inane herd that saw beauty or poetry in something which was basically no more than a desperate impassioned call for murder?\"\n\nAlthough \"Un Chien Andalou\" is a silent film, during the original screening (attended by the elite of the Parisian art world), Buñuel played a sequence of phonograph records which he switched manually while keeping his pockets full of stones with which to pelt anticipated hecklers. After the premiere, Buñuel and Dalí were granted formal admittance to the tight-knit community of Surrealists, led by poet André Breton.\n\nLate in 1929, on the strength of \"Un Chien Andalou\", Buñuel and Dalí were commissioned to make another short film by Marie-Laurie and Charles de Noailles, owners of a private cinema on the Place des États-Unis and financial supporters of productions by Jacques Manuel, Man Ray and Pierre Chenal. At first, the intent was that the new film be around the same length as \"Un Chien\", only this time with sound. But by mid-1930, the film had grown segmentally to an hour's duration. Anxious that it was over twice as long as planned and at double the budget, Buñuel offered to trim the film and cease production, but Noailles gave him the go-ahead to continue the project.\n\nThe film, entitled \"L'Age d'Or\", was begun as a second collaboration with Dalí, but, while working on the scenario, the two had a falling out; Buñuel, who at the time had strong leftist sympathies, desired a deliberate undermining of all bourgeois institutions, while Dalí, who eventually supported the Spanish nationalist dictator Francisco Franco and various figures of the European aristocracy, wanted merely to cause a scandal through the use of various scatological and anti-Catholic images. The friction between them was exacerbated when, at a dinner party in Cadaqués, Buñuel tried to throttle Dalí's girlfriend, Gala, the wife of Surrealist poet Paul Éluard. In consequence, Dalí had nothing to do with the actual shooting of the film. During the course of production, Buñuel worked around his technical ignorance by filming mostly in sequence and using nearly every foot of film that he shot. Buñuel invited friends and acquaintances to appear, gratis, in the film; for example, anyone who owned a tuxedo or a party frock got a part in the salon scene.\n\nConcurrent with the \"succès de scandale\", both Buñuel and the film's leading lady, Lya Lys, received offers of interest from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and traveled to Hollywood at the studio's expense. While in the United States, Buñuel associated with other celebrity expatriates including Sergei Eisenstein, Josef Von Sternberg, Jacques Feyder, Charles Chaplin and Bertolt Brecht. All that was required of Buñuel by his loose-ended contract with MGM was that he \"learn some good American technical skills\", but, after being ushered off the first set he visited because the star, Greta Garbo, did not welcome intruders, he decided to stay at home most of the time and only show up to collect his paycheck. His only enduring contribution to MGM came when he served as an extra in \"La Fruta Amarga\", a Spanish-language remake of \"Min and Bill\". When, after a few months at the studio, he was asked to watch rushes of Lili Damita to gauge her Spanish accent, he refused and sent a message to studio boss Irving Thalberg stating that he was there as a Frenchman, not a Spaniard, and he \"didn't have time to waste listening to one of the whores\". He was back in Spain shortly thereafter.\n\nSpain in the early 1930s was a time of political and social turbulence, a period of intense and bloody upheaval. Anarchists and Radical Socialists sacked monarchist headquarters in Madrid and proceeded to set afire or otherwise wreck more than a dozen churches in the capital while similar revolutionary acts occurred in a score of other cities in southern and eastern Spain, in most cases with the acquiescence and occasionally with the assistance of the official Republican authorities.\n\nBuñuel's future wife, Jeanne Rucar, recalled that during that period, \"he got very excited about politics and the ideas that were everywhere in pre-Civil War Spain\". In the first flush of his enthusiasm, Buñuel joined the Communist Party of Spain (PCE) in 1931 though later in life he denied becoming a Communist.\nIn 1932, Buñuel was invited to serve as film documentarian for the celebrated \"Mission Dakar-Djibouti\", the first large-scale French anthropological field expedition, which, led by Marcel Griaule, unearthed some 3,500 African artifacts for the new Musée de l'Homme. Although he declined, the project piqued his interest in ethnography. After reading the academic study, \"Las Jurdes: étude de géographie humaine\" (1927) by Maurice Legendre, he decided to make a film focused on peasant life in Extremadura, one of Spain's poorest states. The film, called \"\" (1933), was financed on a budget of 20,000 pesetas donated by a working-class anarchist friend named Ramón Acín, who had won the money in a lottery. In the film, Buñuel matches scenes of deplorable social conditions with narration that resembles travelogue commentary delivered by a detached-sounding announcer, while the soundtrack thunders inappropriate music by Brahms.\n\n\"Las Hurdes\" was banned by three successive Republican governments, definitively by Franco when he came to power. It is a film which continues to perplex viewers and resists easy categorization by film historians. \"Las Hurdes\" has been called one of the first examples of mockumentary, and has been labeled a \"surrealist documentary\", a term defined by critic Mercè Ibarz as \"A multi-layered and unnerving use of sound, the juxtaposition of narrative forms already learnt from the written press, travelogues and new pedagogic methods, as well as a subversive use of photographed and filmed documents understood as a basis for contemporary propaganda for the masses\". Catherine Russell has stated that in \"Las Hurdes\", Buñuel was able to reconcile his political philosophy with his surrealist aesthetic, with surrealism becoming \"a means of awakening a marxist materialism in danger of becoming a stale orthodoxy.\"\n\nAfter \"Las Hurdes\" in 1933, Buñuel worked in Paris in the dubbing department of Paramount Pictures, but following his marriage in 1934, he switched to Warner Brothers because they operated dubbing studios in Madrid. A friend, Ricardo Urgoiti, who owned the commercial film company Filmófono, invited Buñuel to produce films for a mass audience. He accepted the offer, viewing it as an \"experiment\" as he knew the film industry in Spain was still far behind the technical level of Hollywood or Paris. According to film historian Manuel Rotellar's interviews with members of the cast and crew of the Filmófono studios, Buñuel's only condition was that his involvement with these pictures be completely anonymous, apparently for fear of damaging his reputation as a surrealist. Rotellar insists, however, \"the truth is that it was Luis Buñuel who directed the Filmófono productions\". José Luis Sáenz de Heredia, the titular director of two of the films created during Buñuel's years as \"executive producer\" at Filmófono, recounted that it was Buñuel who \"explained to me every morning what he wanted...We looked at the takes together and it was Buñuel who chose the shots, and in editing, I wasn't even allowed to be present.\" Of the 18 films produced by Buñuel during his years at Filmófono, the four that are believed by critical consensus to have been directed by him are:\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939), Buñuel placed himself at the disposal of the Republican government. The minister for foreign affairs sent him first to Geneva and then to Paris for two years, with official responsibility for cataloging Republican propaganda films. Besides the cataloguing, Buñuel took left-wing tracts to Spain, did some occasional spying, acted as a bodyguard, and supervised the making of a documentary, entitled \"España 1936\" in France and \"Espana leal, ¡en armas!\" in Spain, that covered the elections, the parades, the riots, and the war. In August 1936, Federico García Lorca was shot and killed by Nationalist militia. According to his son, Juan Luis, Buñuel rarely talked about Lorca but mourned the poet's untimely death throughout his life.\n\nBuñuel essentially functioned as the coordinator of film propaganda for the Republic, which meant that he was in a position to examine all film shot in the country and decide what sequences could be developed and distributed abroad. The Spanish Ambassador suggested that Buñuel revisit Hollywood where he could give technical advice on films being made there about the Spanish Civil War, so in 1938, he and his family traveled to the United States using funds obtained from his old patrons, the Noailles. Almost immediately upon his arrival in America, however, the war ended and the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors Association of America discontinued making films on the Spanish conflict. According to Buñuel's wife, returning to Spain was impossible since the 'Fascists' had seized power, so Buñuel decided to stay in the U.S. indefinitely, stating that he was \"immensely attracted by the American naturalness and sociability.\"\n\nReturning to Hollywood in 1938, he was befriended by Frank Davis, an MGM producer and member of the Communist Party USA, who placed Buñuel on the payroll of \"Cargo of Innocence\", a film about Spanish refugee mothers and children fleeing from Bilbao to the USSR. The project was shelved precipitately when another Hollywood film about the Spanish Civil War, \"Blockade\", was met with disfavor by the Catholic League of Decency. In the words of biographer Ruth Brandon, Buñuel and his family \"lived from one unsatisfactory crumb of work to another\" because he \"had none of the arrogance and pushiness essential for survival in Hollywood.\" He just wasn't flamboyant enough to capture the attention of Hollywood decision makers, in the opinion of film composer George Antheil: \"Inasmuch as [Buñuel], his wife and his little boy seemed to be such absolutely normal, solid persons, as totally un-Surrealist in the Dalí tradition as one could possibly imagine.\" For the most part, he was snubbed by many of the people in the film community whom he met during his first trip to America, although he was able to sell some gags to Chaplin for his film \"The Great Dictator\".\n\nIn desperation, to market himself to independent producers, he composed a 21-page autobiography, a section of which, headed \"My Present Plans\", outlined proposals for two documentary films:\n\nNobody showed any interest and Buñuel realized that staying in Los Angeles was futile, so he traveled to New York to see if he could change his fortunes.\nIn New York, Antheil introduced Buñuel to Iris Barry, chief curator of film at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA). Barry talked Buñuel into joining a committee formed to help educate those within the U.S. government who might not have appreciated fully the effectiveness of film as a medium of propaganda. Buñuel was hired to produce a shortened version of Leni Riefenstahl's \"Triumph of the Will\" (1935) as a demonstration project. The finished product was a compilation of scenes from Riefenstahl's Nazi epic with Hans Bertram's \"Feuertaufe\". Buñuel stayed at MoMA to work for the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs (OCIAA) as part of a production team that would gather, review and edit films intended as anti-fascist propaganda to be distributed in Latin America by American embassies. While being vetted for the job at the OCIAA, upon being asked if he was a Communist, he replied: \"I am a Republican,\" and, apparently, the interviewer did not realize that Buñuel was referring to the Spanish socialist coalition government, not the American political party. Describing Buñuel's work at MoMA, his friend, composer Gustavo Pittaluga, stated: \"Luis created maybe 2,000 remarkable works. We were sent anodyne documentaries, often extremely feeble primary materials, which the Museum team turned into marvellous films. And not just Spanish versions, but also Portuguese, French and English... He would \"create\" a good documentary through editing.\" [italics in original]\n\nIn 1942, Buñuel applied for American citizenship, because he anticipated that MoMA would soon be put under federal control. But that same year, Dalí published his autobiography, \"The Secret Life of Salvador Dalí\", in which he made it clear that he had split with Buñuel because the latter was a Communist and an atheist. News of this reached Archbishop Spellman, who angrily confronted Barry with the question: \"Are you aware that you are harbouring in this Museum the Antichrist, the man who made a blasphemous film \"L'Age d'Or\"?\" At the same time, a campaign on the part of Hollywood, through its industry trade paper, the \"Motion Picture Herald\", to undermine the MoMA film unit resulted in a 66% reduction in the department's budget and Buñuel felt himself compelled to resign. In 1944, he returned to Hollywood for the third time, this time as Spanish Dubbing Producer for Warner Brothers. Before leaving New York, he confronted Dalí at his hotel, the Sherry Netherland, to tell the painter about the damage his book had done and then shoot him in the knee. Buñuel did not carry out the violent part of his plan. Dalí explained himself by saying: \"I did not write my book to put YOU on a pedestal. I wrote it to put ME on a pedestal\".\nBuñuel's first dubbing assignment on returning to Hollywood was \"My Reputation\", a Barbara Stanwyck picture which became \"El Que Diran\" in Buñuel's hands. In addition to his dubbing work, Buñuel attempted to develop a number of independent projects:\n\nIn 1945, Buñuel's contract with Warner Brothers expired, and he decided not to renew it in order, as he put it: \"to realize my life's ambition for a year: to do nothing\". While his family enjoyed themselves at the beach, Buñuel spent much of his time in Antelope Valley with new acquaintances writer Aldous Huxley and sculptor Alexander Calder, from whom he rented a house.\n\nIn his autobiography, in a chapter about his second spell in America, Buñuel states that \"[o]n several occasions, both American and European producers have suggested that I tackle a film version of Malcolm Lowry's \"Under the Volcano\"\". He says that he read the book many times as well as eight different screenplays but was unable to come up with a solution for the cinema. The movie was eventually made in 1984 by John Huston.\n\nThe following year, an old friend, producer Denise Tual, the widow of Pierre Batcheff, the leading man in \"Un Chien Andalou\", proposed that she and Buñuel adapt Lorca's play \"La casa de Bernarda Alba\" for production in Paris. As it turned out, though, before they could both make their way to Europe, they encountered problems in securing the rights from Lorca's family. While in Mexico City, on a stopover, they had asked Óscar Dancigers, a Russian émigré producer active in Mexico, for financing. Dancigers ran an independent production company that specialized in assisting U.S. film studios with on-location shooting in Mexico, but following World War II, he had lost his connection with Hollywood due to his being blacklisted as a Communist. Although Dancigers wasn't enthusiastic about the Lorca project, he did want to work with Buñuel and persuaded the Spanish director to make a film for him.\nThe Golden Age of Mexican cinema was peaking in the mid-to-late 1940s, at just the time Buñuel was connecting with Dancigers. Movies represented Mexico's third largest industry by 1947, employing 32,000 workers, with 72 film producers who invested 66 million pesos (approximately U.S. $13 million) per year, four active studios with 40 million pesos of invested capital, and approximately 1,500 theaters throughout the nation, with about 200 in Mexico City alone. For their first project, the two men selected what seemed like a sure-fire success, \"Gran Casino\", a musical period piece set in Tampico during the boom years of oil exploitation, starring two of the most popular entertainers in Latin America: Libertad Lamarque, an Argentine actress and singer, and Jorge Negrete, a Mexican singer and leading man in \"charro\" films. Buñuel recalled: \"I kept them singing all the time—a competition, a championship\".\n\nThe film was not successful at the box office, with some even calling it a fiasco. Different reasons have been given for its failure with the public; for some, Buñuel was forced to make concessions to the bad taste of his stars, particularly Negrete, others cite Buñuel's rusty technical skills and lack of confidence after so many years out of the director's chair, while still others speculate that Mexican audiences were tiring of genre movies, called \"churros\", that were perceived as being cheaply and hastily made.\n\nThe failure of \"Gran Casino\" sidelined Buñuel, and it was over two years before he had the chance to direct another picture. According to Buñuel, he spent this time \"scratching my nose, watching flies and living off my mother's money\", but he was actually somewhat more industrious than that may sound. With the husband/wife team of Janet and Luis Alcoriza, he wrote the scenario for \"Si usted no puede, yo sí\", which was filmed in 1950 by Julián Soler. He also continued developing the idea for a surrealistic film called \"Ilegible, hijo de flauta\", with the poet Juan Larrea. Dancigers pointed out to him that there was currently a vogue for films about street urchins, so Buñuel scoured the back streets and slums of Mexico City in search of material, interviewing social workers about street gang warfare and murdered children.\n\nDuring this period, Dancigers was busy producing films for the actor/director Fernando Soler, one of the most durable of Mexican film personalities, having been referred to as the \"national paterfamilias\". Although Soler typically preferred to direct his own films, for their latest collaboration, \"El Gran Calavera\", based on a play by Adolfo Torrado, he decided that doing both jobs would be too much trouble, so he asked Dancigers to find someone who could be trusted to handle the technical aspects of the directorial duties. Buñuel welcomed the opportunity, stating that: \"I amused myself with the montage, the constructions, the angles... All of that interested me because I was still an apprentice in so-called 'normal' cinema.\" As a result of his work on this film, he developed a technique for making films cheaply and quickly by limiting them to 125 shots. \"El Gran Calavera\" was completed in 16 days at a cost of 400,000 pesos (approximately $46,000 US at 1948 exchange rates). The picture has been described as \"a hilarious screwball send-up of the Mexican nouveau riche... a wild roller coaster of mistaken identity, sham marriages and misfired suicides\", and it was a big hit at the box office in Mexico. In 2013, the picture was re-made by Mexican director Gary Alazraki under the title \"The Noble Family\". In 1949, Buñuel renounced his Spanish citizenship to become a naturalized Mexican.\n\nThe commercial success of \"El Gran Calavera\" enabled Buñuel to redeem a promise he had extracted from Dancigers, which was that if Buñuel could deliver a money-maker, Dancigers would guarantee \"a degree of freedom\" on the next film project. Knowing that Dancigers was uncomfortable with experimentalism, especially when it might affect the bottom line, Buñuel proposed a commercial project titled \"¡Mi huerfanito jefe!\", about a juvenile street vendor who can't sell his final lottery ticket, which ends up being the winner and making him rich. Dancigers was open to the idea, but instead of a \"feuilleton\", he suggested making \"something rather more serious\". During his recent researches through the slums of Mexico City, Buñuel had read a newspaper account of a twelve-year-old boy's body being found on a garbage dump, and this became the inspiration, and final scene, for the film, called \"Los olvidados\".\nThe film tells the story of a street gang of children who terrorize their impoverished neighborhood, at one point brutalizing a blind man and at another assaulting a legless man who moves around on a dolly, which they toss down a hill. Film historian Carl J. Mora has said of \"Los olvidados\" that the director: \"visualized poverty in a radically different way from the traditional forms of Mexican melodrama. Buñuel's street children are not 'ennobled' by their desperate struggle for survival; they are in fact ruthless predators who are not better than their equally unromanticized victims\". The film was made quickly (18 days) and cheaply (450,000 pesos), with Buñuel's fee being the equivalent of $2,000. During filming, a number of members of the crew resisted the production in a variety of ways: one technician confronted Buñuel and asked why he didn't make a \"real\" Mexican movie \"rather than a miserable picture like this one\", the film's hairdresser quit on the spot over a scene in which the protagonist's mother refuses to give him food (\"In Mexico, no mother would say that to her son.\"), another staff member urged Buñuel to abandon shooting on a \"garbage heap\", noting that there were many \"lovely residential neighborhoods like Las Lomas\" that were available, while Pedro de Urdimalas, one of the scriptwriters, refused to allow his name in the credits.\nThis hostility was also felt by those who attended the movie's première in Mexico City on 9 November 1950, when \"Los olvidados\" was taken by many as an insult to Mexican sensibilities and to the Mexican nation. At one point, the audience shrieked in shock as one of the characters looked straight into the camera and hurled a rotten egg at it, leaving a gelatinous, opaque ooze on the lens for a few moments. In his memoir, Buñuel recalled that after the initial screening, painter Diego Rivera's wife refused to speak to him, while poet León Felipe's wife had to be restrained physically from attacking him. There were even calls to have Buñuel's Mexican citizenship revoked. Dancigers, panicked by what he feared would be a complete debacle, quickly commissioned an alternate \"happy\" ending to the film, and also tacked on a preface showing stock footage of the skylines of New York, London and Paris with voice-over commentary to the effect that behind the wealth of all the great cities of the world can be found poverty and malnourished children, and that Mexico City \"that large modern city, is no exception\". Regardless, attendance was so poor that Dancigers withdrew the film after only three days in theaters.\nThrough the determined efforts of future Nobel Prize winner for Literature Octavio Paz, who at the time was in Mexico's diplomatic service, \"Los olvidados\" was chosen to represent Mexico at the Cannes Film Festival of 1951, and Paz promoted the film assiduously by distributing a supportive manifesto and parading outside the cinema with a placard. Opinion in general was enthusiastic, with the Surrealists (Breton and poet Jacques Prevert) and other artistic intellectuals (painter Marc Chagall and poet/dramatist/filmmaker Jean Cocteau) laudatory, but the communists objected to what they saw as the film's \"bourgeois morality\" for containing a scene in which the police stop a pederast from assaulting a child. Buñuel won the Best Director prize that year at Cannes, and also won the FIPRESCI International Critics' Award. After receiving these accolades, the film was reissued in Mexico where it ran for two months to much greater acceptance and profit. \"Los olvidados\" and its triumph at Cannes made Buñuel an instant world celebrity and the most important Spanish-speaking film director in the world. In 2003, \"Los olvidados\" was recommended by UNESCO for inclusion in the Memory of the World Register, calling it: \"the most important document in Spanish about the marginal lives of children in contemporary large cities\".\nBuñuel remained in Mexico for the rest of his life, although he spent periods of time filming in France and Spain. In Mexico, he filmed 21 films during an 18-year period. For many critics, although there were occasional widely acknowledged masterpieces like \"Los olvidados\" and \"Él\" (1953), the majority of his output consisted of generic fare which was adapted to the norms of the national film industry, frequently adopting melodramatic conventions that appealed to local tastes. Other commentators, however, have written of the deceptive complexity and intensity of many of these films, arguing that, collectively, they, \"bring a philosophical depth and power to his cinema, together offering a sustained meditation on ideas of religion, class inequity, violence and desire.\" Although Buñuel usually had little choice regarding the selection of these projects, they often deal with themes that were central to his lifelong concerns: \n\nAs busy as he was during the 1950s and early 1960s, there were still many film projects that Buñuel had to abandon due to lack of financing or studio support, including a cherished plan to film Mexican novelist Juan Rulfo's \"Pedro Páramo\", of which he said how much he enjoyed \"the crossing from the mysterious to the real, almost without transition. I really like this mixture of reality and fantasy, but I don't know how to bring it to the screen.\" Other unrealized projects during his lifetime included adaptations of André Gide's \"Les caves du Vatican\"; Benito Pérez Galdós's \"Fortunata y Jacinta\", \"Doña Perfecta\", and \"Ángel Guerra\"; Evelyn Waugh's \"The Loved One\"; William Golding's \"Lord of the Flies\"; Dalton Trumbo's \"Johnny Got His Gun\"; J. K. Huysmans' \"Là-Bas\"; Matthew Lewis's \"The Monk\"; José Donoso's \"Lugar sin límites\"; a film of four stories based on Carlos Fuentes's \"Aura\"; and Julio Cortázar's \"Las ménades\". Some of these adaptations were later used by following directors.\n\nAs much as he welcomed steady employment in the Mexican film industry, Buñuel was quick to seize opportunities to re-emerge onto the international film scene and to engage with themes that were not necessarily focused on Mexican preoccupations. His first chance came in 1954, when Dancigers partnered with Henry F. Ehrlich, of United Artists, to co-produce a film version of Daniel Defoe's \"Robinson Crusoe\", using a script developed by the Canadian writer Hugo Butler. The film was produced by George Pepper, the former executive secretary of the Hollywood Democratic Committee. Both Butler and Pepper were emigres from Hollywood who had run afoul of authorities seeking out communists. The result, \"Adventures of Robinson Crusoe\", was Buñuel's first color film. Buñuel was given much more time than usual for the filming (three months), which was accomplished on location in Manzanillo, a Pacific seaport with a lush jungle interior, and was shot simultaneously in English and Spanish. When the film was released in the United States, its young star Dan O'Herlihy used his own money to fund a Los Angeles run for the film and gave free admission to all members of the Screen Actors Guild, who in turn rewarded the little-known actor with his only Oscar nomination.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, Buñuel got the chance to work again in France on international co-productions. The result was what critic Raymond Durgnat has called the director's \"revolutionary triptych\", in that each of the three films is \"openly, or by implication, a study in the morality and tactics of armed revolution against a right-wing dictatorship.\" The first, \"Cela s'appelle l'aurore\" (Franco-Italian, 1956) required Buñuel and the \"pataphysical\" writer Jean Ferry to adapt a novel by Emmanuel Roblès after the celebrated writer Jean Genet failed to deliver a script after having been paid in full. The second film was \"La Mort en ce jardin\" (Franco-Mexican, 1956), which was adapted by Buñuel and his frequent collaborator Luis Alcoriza from a novel by the Belgian writer José-André Lacour. The final part of the \"triptych\" was \"La Fièvre Monte à El Pao\" (Franco-Mexican, 1959), the last film of the popular French star Gérard Philipe, who died in the final stages of the production. Buñuel was later to explain that he was so strapped for cash that he, \"took everything that was offered to me, as long as it wasn't humiliating.\"\n\nIn 1960, Buñuel re-teamed with scenarist Hugo Butler and organizer George Pepper, allegedly his favorite producer, to make his second English-language film, a US/Mexico co-production called \"The Young One\", based on a short story by writer and former CIA-agent Peter Matthiessen. This film has been called \"a surprisingly uncompromising study of racism and sexual desire, set on a remote island in the Deep South\" and has been described by critic Ed Gonzalez as, \"salacious enough to make Elia Kazan's Baby Doll and Luis Malle's \"Pretty Baby\" blush.\" Although the film won a special award at the Cannes Film Festival for its treatment of racial discrimination, the US critics were so hostile upon its release that Buñuel was later to say that, \"a Harlem newspaper even wrote that I should be hung upside down from a lamppost on Fifth Avenue...I made this film with love, but it never had a chance.\" In the words of film historian Peter Harcourt: \"if \"The Young One\" must still be considered a 'bad' film by conventional standards, then it is one of the most subtle, most challenging and most distinguished bad films ever made.\"\n\nAt the 1960 Cannes Festival, Buñuel was approached by the young director Carlos Saura, whose film \"Los Golfos\" had been entered officially to represent Spain. Two years earlier, Saura had partnered with Juan Antonio Bardem and Luis García Berlanga to form a production company called UNINCI, and the group was keen to get Buñuel to make a new film in his native country as part of their overall goal of creating a uniquely Spanish brand of cinema. At the same time, Mexican actress Silvia Pinal was eager to work with Buñuel and talked her producer-husband Gustavo Alatriste into providing additional funding for the project with the understanding that the director, who Pinal described as \"a man worshiped and idolized\", would be given \"absolute freedom\" in carrying out the work. Finally, Buñuel agreed to work again in Spain when further support was provided by producer Pere Portabella's company \"Film 59\".\n\nBuñuel and his co-scenarist Julio Alejandro drafted a preliminary screenplay for \"Viridiana\", which critic Andrew Sarris has described as incorporating \"a plot which is almost too lurid to synopsize even in these enlightened times\", dealing with rape, incest, hints of necrophilia, animal cruelty and sacrilege, and dutifully submitted it to the Spanish censor, who, to the surprise of nearly everyone, approved it after requesting only minor modifications and one significant change to the ending. Although Buñuel accommodated the censor's demands, he came up with a final scene that was even more provocative than the scene it replaced: \"even more immoral\", as Buñuel was later to observe. Since Buñuel had more than adequate resources, top-flight technical and artistic crews, and experienced actors, filming of \"Viridiana\" (which took place on location and at Bardem's studios in Madrid) went smoothly and quickly.\n\nBuñuel submitted a cutting copy to the censors and then arranged for his son, Juan Luis, to smuggle the negatives to Paris for the final editing and mixing, ensuring that the authorities would not have an opportunity to view the finished product before its planned submission as Spain's official entry to the 1961 Cannes Festival. Spain's director general of cinematography José Munoz-Fontan presented the film on the last day of the festival and then, on the urging of Portabella and Bardem, appeared in person to accept the top prize, the Palme d'Or, which the film shared with the French entry \"Une aussi longue absence\", directed by Henri Colpi. Within days, \"l'Osservatore Romano\", the Vatican's official organ, denounced the film as an insult not only to Catholicism but to Christianity in general. Consequences to nearly all concerned were swift: Munoz-Fontan was cashiered from his government post, the film was banned in Spain for the next 17 years, all mention of it in the press was prohibited, and the two Spanish production companies UNINCI and \"Film 59\" were disbanded.\nBuñuel went on to make two more films in Mexico with Pinal and Alatriste, \"El ángel exterminador\" (1962) and \"Simón del desierto\" (1965)— along with \"Viridiana\", they form the so-called \"Buñuelian trilogy\" — and was later to say that Alatriste had been the one producer who gave him the most freedom in creative expression.\n\nIn 1963, actor Fernando Rey, one of the stars of \"Viridiana\", introduced Buñuel to producer Serge Silberman, a Polish entrepreneur who had fled to Paris when his family died in the Holocaust and had worked with several renowned French directors, including Jean-Pierre Melville, Jacques Becker, Marcel Camus and Christian-Jaque. Silberman proposed that the two make an adaptation of Octave Mirbeau's \"Journal d'une femme de chambre\", which Buñuel had read several times. Buñuel wanted to do the filming in Mexico with Pinal, but Silberman insisted it be done in France.\n\nPinal was so determined to work again with Buñuel that she was ready to move to France, learn the language and even work for nothing in order to get the part of Célestine, the title character. Silberman, however, wanted French actress Jeanne Moreau to play the role, so he put Pinal off by telling her that Moreau, too, was willing to act with no fee. Ultimately, Silberman got his way, leaving Pinal so disappointed that she was later to claim that Alatriste's failure to help her secure this part led to the breakup of their marriage. When Buñuel requested a French-speaking writer with whom to collaborate on the screenplay, Silberman suggested the 32-year-old Jean-Claude Carrière, an actor whose previous screenwriting credits included only a few films for the comic star/director Pierre Étaix, but once Buñuel learned that Carrière was the scion of a wine-growing family, the newcomer was hired on the spot. At first, Carrière found it difficult to work with Buñuel, because the young man was so deferential to the famous director that he never challenged any of Buñuel's ideas, until, at Buñuel's covert insistence, Silberman told Carrière to stand up to Buñuel now and then; as Carrière was later to say: \"In a way, Buñuel needed an opponent. He didn't need a secretary – he needed someone to contradict him and oppose him and to make suggestions.\" The finished 1964 film, \"Diary of a Chambermaid\", became the first of several to be made by the team of Buñuel, Carrière and Silberman. Carrière was later to say: \"Without me and without Serge Silberman, the producer, perhaps Buñuel would not have made so many films after he was 65. We really encouraged him to work. That's for sure.\" \nThis was the second attempt to film Mirbeau's novel, the first being a 1946 Hollywood production directed by Jean Renoir, which Buñuel refused to view for fear of being influenced by the famous French director, whom he venerated. Buñuel's version, while admired by many, has often been compared unfavorably to Renoir's, with a number of critics claiming that Renoir's \"Diary\" fits better in Renoir's overall \"oeuvre\", while Buñuel's \"Diary\" is not sufficiently \"Buñuelian\".\n\nAfter the 1964 release of \"Diary\", Buñuel again tried to make a film of Matthew Lewis' \"The Monk\", a project on which he had worked, on and off, since 1938, according to producer Pierre Braunberger. He and Carrière wrote a screenplay, but were unable to obtain funding for the project, which would be finally realized in 1973 under the direction of Buñuel devotee Ado Kyrou, with considerable assistance from both Buñuel and Carrière.\n\nIn 1965, Buñuel manage to work again with Sylvia Pinal in what would turn out to be his last Mexican feature, co-starring Claudio Brook, \"Simón del desierto\". Pinal was keenly interested in continuing to work with Buñuel, trusting him completely and frequently stating that he brought out the best in her; however, this would be their last collaboration.\n\nIn 1966, Buñuel was approached by the Hakim brothers, Robert and Raymond, Egyptian-French producers who specialized in sexy films directed by star filmmakers, who offered him the opportunity to direct a film version of Joseph Kessel's novel \"Belle de Jour\", a book about an affluent young woman who leads a double life as a prostitute, and that had caused a scandal upon its first publication in 1928. Buñuel did not like Kessel's novel, considering it \"a bit of a soap opera\", but he took on the challenge because: \"I found it interesting to try to turn something I didn't like into something I did.\" So he and Carrière set out enthusiastically to interview women in the brothels of Madrid to learn about their sexual fantasies. Buñuel also was not happy about the choice of the 22-year-old Catherine Deneuve for the title role, feeling that she had been foisted upon him by the Hakim brothers and Deneuve's lover at the time, director François Truffaut. As a result, both actress and director found working together difficult, with Deneuve claiming, \"I felt they showed more of me than they'd said they were going to. There were moments when I felt totally used. I was very unhappy,\" and Buñuel deriding her prudery on the set and complaining that the hairdresser had to bind her breasts in order to assure her that they would not show on screen. The resulting film has been described by film critic Roger Ebert as \"possibly the best-known erotic film of modern times, perhaps the best\", even though, as another critic has written, \"in terms of explicit sexual activity, there is little in \"Belle de jour\" we might not see in a Doris Day comedy from the same year\". It was Buñuel's most successful film at the box office.\n\nCritics have noted Buñuel's habit of following up a commercial or critical success with a more personal, idiosyncratic film that might have less chance of popular esteem.\n\nAfter the worldwide success of his 1967 \"Belle de jour\", and upon viewing Jean-Luc Godard's film \"La Chinoise\", Buñuel, who had wanted to make a film about Catholic heresies for years, told Carrière: \"If that is what today's cinema is like, then we can make a film about heresies.\" The two spent months researching Catholic history and created the 1969 film \"The Milky Way\", a \"picaresque road film\" that tells the story of two vagabonds on pilgrimage to the tomb of the Apostle James at Santiago de Compostela, during which they travel through time and space to take part in situations illustrating heresies that arose from the six major Catholic dogmas. Vincent Canby, reviewing the film in the \"New York Times\", compared it to George Stevens' blockbuster \"The Greatest Story Ever Told\", in that Buñuel had made a film about Jesus casting nearly all the famous French performers of the time in cameo roles. \"The Milky Way\" was banned in Italy, only to have the Catholic Church intervene on its behalf.\n\nThe 1970 film \"Tristana\" is a film about a young woman who is seduced and manipulated by her guardian, who attempts to thwart her romance with a young artist and who eventually induces her to marry him after she loses one of her legs due to a tumor. It has been considered by scholar Beth Miller the least understood of Buñuel's films, and consequently one of the most underrated, due to a \"consistent failure to apprehend its political and, especially, its socialist-feminist statement\". Buñuel had wanted to make a film of Benito Pérez Galdós' novel \"Tristana\" as early as 1952, even though he considered Galdós' book the author's weakest, in Buñuel's words: \"of the 'I love you, my little pigeon' genre, very kitsch\". After finishing \"Viridiana\" and in the wake of the scandal its release caused in 1962, the Spanish censor flatly turned down this project, and Buñuel had to wait for 8 years before he could receive backing from the Spanish production company Epoca Films. The censors had threatened to deny permission for the film on the grounds that it encouraged duelling, so Buñuel had to approach the subject matter very gingerly, in addition to making concessions to his French/Italian/Spanish producers, who insisted on casting two of the three primary roles with actors not of Buñuel's choosing: Franco Nero and Catherine Deneuve. On this occasion, however, Deneuve and Buñuel had a more mutually satisfactory working relationship, with Deneuve telling an interviewer, \"but in the end, you know, it was actually rather a wonderful shoot. \"Tristana\" is one of my favorite films. Personally, as an actress, I prefer \"Tristana\" to \"Belle de Jour\".\"\n\nThe germ of the idea for their next film together, \"The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie\" (1972) came from Buñuel and Serge Silberman discussing uncanny repetition in everyday life; Silberman told an anecdote about how he had invited some friends for dinner at his house, only to forget about it, so that, on the night of the dinner party, he was absent and his wife was in her nightclothes. The film tells of a group of affluent friends who are continually stymied in their attempts to eat a meal together, a situation that a number of critics have contrasted to the opposite dilemma of the characters in \"The Exterminating Angel\", where guests of a dinner party are mysteriously unable to leave after having completed their meal. For this film, Buñuel, Silberman and Carrière assembled a top-flight cast of European performers, \"a veritable rogues' gallery of French art-house cinema\", according to one critic. For the first time, Buñuel made use of a video-playback monitor, which allowed him to make much more extensive use of crane shots and elaborate tracking shots, and enabled him to cut the film in the camera and eliminate the need for reshoots. Filming required only two months and Buñuel claimed that editing took only one day. When the film was released, Silberman decided to skip the Cannes Festival in order to concentrate on getting it nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, which it won, leading Buñuel to express his contempt for a process that relied on the judgment of, \"2500 idiots, including for example the assistant dress designer of the studio.\"\n\nAs was his habit, Buñuel took advantage of the popular success of \"Discreet Charm\" to make one of the \"puzzling, idiosyncratic films he \"really\" wanted to make\". In 1973, at the Monastery of Paular in the Spanish Somosierra, he wrote the screenplay for \"The Phantom of Liberty\"(1974) with Carrière for production by Silberman and his Hollywood partners. The resulting film is a series of 12 distinctive episodes with separate protagonists, linked together only by following a character from one episode to another in a relay-race manner. Buñuel has stated that he made the film as a tribute to poet Benjamin Péret, a founding member of French Surrealism, and called it his \"most Surrealist film\".\n\nBuñuel's final film was \"That Obscure Object of Desire\" (1977), adapted by Buñuel and Carrière from an 1898 novel by Pierre Louÿs called \"La Femme et le pantin\", which had already been used as the basis of films directed by Josef von Sternberg (\"The Devil is a Woman\", 1935) and Julien Duvivier (\"La Femme et le Pantin\", 1959). The film, which tells the story of an older man who is obsessed by a young woman who continually evades his attempts to consummate a sexual relationship, starred the Spanish actor Fernando Rey, appearing in his fourth Buñuel film. Initially, the part of the young woman was to be played by Maria Schneider, who had achieved international fame for her roles in \"Last Tango in Paris\" and \"The Passenger\", but once shooting started, according to Carrière, her drug usage resulted in a \"lackluster and dull\" performance that caused tempestuous arguments with Buñuel on the set and her eventual dismissal. Serge Silberman, the producer, decided to abandon the project at that point, but was convinced by Buñuel to continue shooting with two different actresses, Angela Molina and Carole Bouquet playing the same role in alternating sequences throughout the film. In his autobiography, Buñuel claimed that this unusual casting decision was his own idea after drinking two dry martinis, saying: \"If I had to list all the benefits derived from alcohol, it would be endless\". Others have reported that Carrière had first broached the idea while developing the film's scenario, but had been brushed off by Buñuel as \"the whim of a rainy day.\"\n\nAfter the release of \"That Obscure Object of Desire\", Buñuel retired from filmmaking. In 1982, he wrote (along with Carrière) his autobiography, \"Mon Dernier Soupir\" (\"My Last Sigh\"), which provides an account of his life, friends, and family as well as a representation of his eccentric personality. In it, he recounts dreams, encounters with many well-known writers, actors, and artists such as Pablo Picasso and Charlie Chaplin as well as antics, like dressing up as a nun and walking around town.\n\nIn his seventies, Buñuel once told his friend, novelist Carlos Fuentes: \"I'm not afraid of death. I'm afraid of dying alone in a hotel room, with my bags open and a shooting script on the night table. I must know whose fingers will close my eyes.\" Buñuel died in Mexico City in 1983. Fuentes has recounted that Buñuel spent his last week in hospital discussing theology with the Jesuit brother Julian Pablo, a long time friend. His funeral was very private. There were about 50 people at the most, among them Octavio Paz, José Luis Cuevas, Miguel Littin, his wife and two sons.\n\nBuñuel's technique of filmmaking was strongly influenced by mise-en-scene, sound editing and use of music. The influences on his filmmaking have included a positive relationship to surrealism and a critical approach to atheism and religion. Buñuel's style of directing was extremely economical; he shot films in a few weeks, rarely deviating from his script (the scene in \"Tristana\" where Catherine Deneuve exposes her breasts to Saturno – but not the audience – being a noted exception) and shooting in order as much as possible to minimize editing time. He remained true throughout his working life to an operating philosophy that he articulated at the beginning of his career in 1928: \"The guiding idea, the silent procession of images that are concrete, decisive, measured in space and time—in a word, the film—was first projected inside the brain of the filmmaker\". In this, Buñuel has been compared with Alfred Hitchcock, another director famous for precision, efficiency and preplanning, for whom actually shooting the film was an anticlimax, since each man would know, in Buñuel's words, \"exactly how each scene will be shot and what the final montage will be\". According to actress Jeanne Moreau: \"He was the only director I know who never threw away a shot. He had the film in his mind. When he said 'action' and 'cut,' you knew that what was in between the two would be printed.\"\n\n\nBuñuel has been portrayed as a character in many films and television productions. A portion of the television mini-series \"Lorca, muerte de un poeta\" (1987–1988), directed by Juan Antonio Bardem recreates the student years of Buñuel, Lorca and Dalí, with Fernando Valverde portraying Buñuel in two episodes. He was played by Dimiter Guerasimof in the 1991 biopic \"Dalí\", directed by Antoni Ribas, despite the fact that Dalí and his attorney had written to Ribas objecting to the project in its early stages in 1985. Buñuel appeared as a character in Alejandro Pelayo's 1993 film \"Miroslava\", based on the life of actress Miroslava Stern, who committed suicide after appearing in \"Ensayo de un crimen\" (1955). Buñuel was played by three actors, El Gran Wyoming (old age), Pere Arquillué (young adult) and Juan Carlos Jiménez Marín (child), in Carlos Saura's 2001 fantasy, \"Buñuel y la mesa del rey Salomón\", which tells of Buñuel, Lorca and Dalí setting out in search of the mythical table of King Salomón, which is thought to have the power to see into the past, the present and the future. Buñuel was a character in a 2001 television miniseries \"Severo Ochoa: La conquista de un Nobel\", on the life of the Spanish émigré and Nobel Prize winner in medicine, who was also at the Residencia de Estudiantes during Buñuel's time there. Matt Lucas portrayed Buñuel in Richard Curson Smith's 2002 TV movie \"Surrealissimo: The Scandalous Success of Salvador Dalí\", a comedy depicting Dalí's \"trial\" by the Surrealists in 1934 for his pro-Hitler sympathies. A 2005 short called \"The Death of Salvador Dali\", directed by Delaney Bishop, contains sequences in which Buñuel appears, played by Alejandro Cardenas. Paul Morrison's \"Little Ashes\" hypothesizes a love affair between Dalí and Lorca, with Buñuel (played by Matthew McNulty) looking on suspiciously. Buñuel, played by Adrien de Van, is one of many notable personalities encountered by Woody Allen's protagonist in \"Midnight in Paris\" (2011).\n\nBuñuel was given the Career Golden Lion in 1982 by the Venice Film Festival and the FIPRESCI Prize – Honorable Mention in 1969 by the Berlin International Film Festival. In 1977, he received the National Prize for Arts and Sciences for Fine Arts. At the 11th Moscow International Film Festival in 1979, he was awarded the Honorable Prize for his contribution to cinema.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1700417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1700417", "title": "Lusterware", "text": "Lusterware\n\nLusterware or Lustreware (respectively the US and all other English spellings) is a type of pottery or porcelain with a metallic glaze that gives the effect of iridescence, produced by metallic oxides in an overglaze finish, which is given a second firing at a lower temperature in a \"muffle kiln\", reduction kiln, which excludes oxygen.\n\nLustre decoration was first used as a glass-painting technique. While some scholars see this as a purely Islamic invention originating in Fustat, others place the origins of lustre decoration in Roman and Coptic Egypt during the centuries preceding the rise of Islam. Staining glass vessels with copper and silver pigments was known from around the 3rd century AD, although true lustre technology probably began sometime between the 4th and 8th centuries AD.\nLustre glazes were applied to pottery in Mesopotamia in the 9th century; the technique later became popular in Persia and Syria. In the Great Mosque of Kairouan, Tunisia, the upper part of the mihrab is adorned with polychrome and monochrome lusterware tiles; dating from 862 to 863, these tiles were most probably imported from Mesopotamia. Islam forbade the use of precious metal dishes and vessels for eating, which had been normal for pre-Islamic elites, and there was therefore a market for elaborate and expensive glass and ceramic equivalents. The reminiscence of shining metal, especially gold, made lustreware especially attractive.\n\nLusterware was produced in quantity in Egypt during the Fatimid dynasty in the 10th–12th centuries. While the production of lusterware continued in the Middle East, it spread to Europe through Al-Andalus. Málaga was the first centre of Hispano-Moresque ware, before it developed in the region of Valencia, and then to Italy, where it was used to enhance maiolica. In the 16th century lustred maiolica was a specialty of Gubbio, noted for a rich ruby red, and at Deruta.\n\nAfter a gap of several centuries in Persian production, it was revived in the Safavid period from about the 1630s, in a rather different style, typically producing small pieces with designs often in a dark copper colour over a dark blue (cobalt) background. Unlike other Persian wares of the period, these use traditional Middle Eastern shapes and decoration rather than Chinese-inspired ones, and also do not take their shapes from metalware. Designs featured plant forms and animals, and generally flowed freely over the whole surface, typically taking up over half the surface area. Production, which was never large, appears to have mostly been from about 1650 to 1750, but with rather inferior wares produced into the 19th century. It is often thought to have been centred in Kirman, though firm evidence is lacking.\n\nMetallic lustre of another sort produced English lustreware, which imparts to a piece of pottery the appearance of an object of silver, gold or copper. Silver lustre employed the new metal platinum, whose chemical properties were analyzed towards the end of the 18th century, John Hancock of Hanley invented the application of a platinum technique, and \"put it in practice at Mr Spode's manufactory, for Messrs. Daniels and Brown\", about 1800. Very dilute amounts of powdered gold or platinum were dissolved in aqua regia and added to spirits of tar for platinum and a mixture of turpentine, flowers of sulfur and linseed oil for gold. The mixture was applied to the glazed ware and fired in an enameling kiln, depositing a thin film of platinum or gold.\n\nPlatinum produced the appearance of solid silver, and was employed for the middle class in shapes identical to those uses for silver tea services, ca. 1810-1840. Depending on the concentration of gold in the lustring compound and the under slip on which it was applied, a range of colours could be achieved, from pale rose and lavender, to copper and gold. The gold lustre could be painted or stenciled on the ware, or it could be applied in the resist technique, in which the background was solidly lustred, and the design remained in the body color. In the resist technique, similar to batik, the design was painted in glue and size in a glycerin or honey compound, the lustre applied by dipping, and the resist washed off before the piece was fired.\n\nLustreware became popular in Staffordshire pottery during the 19th century, where it was also used by Josiah Wedgwood, who introduced pink and white lustreware simulating mother o' pearl effects in dishes and bowls cast in the shapes of shells, and silver lustre, introduced at Wedgwood in 1805. In 1810 Peter Warburton of New Hall patented a method of transfer-printing in gold and silver lustre. Sunderland Lustreware in the North East is renowned for its mottled pink lustreware, and lustreware was also produced in Leeds, Yorkshire, where the technique may have been introduced by Thomas Lakin.\n\nWedgwood's lusterware made in the 1820s spawned the production of mass quantities of copper and silver lustreware in England and Wales. Cream pitchers with appliqué-detailed spouts and meticulously applied handles were most common, and often featured stylized decorative bands in dark blue, cream yellow, pink, and, most rare, dark green and purple. Raised, multicolored patterns depicting pastoral scenes were also created, and sand was sometimes incorporated into the glaze to add texture. Pitchers were produced in a range of sizes from cream pitchers to large milk pitchers, as well as small coffeepots and teapots. Tea sets came a bit later, usually featuring creamers, sugar bowls, and slop bowls.\n\nLarge pitchers with transfer printed commemorative scenes appear to have arrived around the middle of the 19th century. These were purely decorative and today command high prices because of their historical connections. Delicate lustre imitating mother-of-pearl was produced by Wedgwood and at Belleek in the mid-century, derived from bismuth nitrate.\n\nUnder the impetus of the Aesthetic Movement, William de Morgan revived lustrewares in a manner drawing from lustred majolica and Hispano-Moresque wares, with fine, bold designs.\n\nIn the United States, copper lusterware became popular because of its lustrousness. Apparently, as gaslights became available to the rich, the fad was to place groupings of lusterware on mirror platforms to be used as centerpieces for dinner parties. Gaslights accentuated their lustrousness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38361644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38361644", "title": "Madkhalism", "text": "Madkhalism\n\nMadkhalism is a strain of Islamist thought within the larger Salafist movement based on the writings of Rabee al-Madkhali. Arab states have generally favored Madkhalism due to its support for secular forms of government as opposed to other strains of Salafism, and Madkhalism's decline in Saudi Arabia has been connected with a decline in support for secular forms of government in the Muslim world.\n\nThough originating in Saudi Arabia, the movement lost its support base in the country and has mostly been relegated to the Muslim community in Europe, with most Saudi Arabians not taking the edicts of Madkhalists seriously. Political scientist Omar Ashour has described the movement as resembling a cult, and English-language media has referred to the group as such.\n\nThe movement has, in essence, been a reaction against the Muslim Brotherhood, rival Sahwa movement as well as the Qutbi movement; Sayyid Qutb, that movement's figurehead, is considered to be an apostate by Madkhali and his movement. At the Madkhalist movement's inception in the early 1990s, the governments of Saudi Arabia and Egypt promoted the group as a counterbalance to more extreme elements of the wider Islamist movement. During this time, a number of radical Jihadists converted to Madkhalism, especially in the Salafist stronghold of Buraidah. In Kuwait, the Madkhali movement was nurtured around individuals who would separate from \"mainstream\" Salafism in 1981 due to many amongst them entering into political arena .\n\nAfter high-ranking members of Saudi Arabia's religious establishment denounced the movement in general, and Saudi Grand Mufti and Permanent Committee head Abdul-Azeez ibn Abdullaah Aal ash-Shaikh's criticism of Rabee al-Madkhali specifically, the movement lost its support base within the wider Arab world. The remaining followers of Madkhali within Saudi Arabia tend to be foreign workers of Western origins, Saudis from Rabee al-Madkhali's hometown, and Kuwaitis and Yemenis. Madkhali also retains a national network of disciples to promote his work and monitor the activities of competitor clerics, and although Madkhalists are outnumbered by followers of Society of the Revival of Islamic Heritage in Kuwait, they retain an extensive international network in the Middle East, Europe and Southeast Asia. Despite losing its audience in its country of origin, the movement had branched outward by the early 2010s, with Madkhalists gaining followers in western Kazakhstan, where the Government of Kazakhstan views them and other Islamists with suspicion. Regardless of these gains, Western analysts have still described the movement as now being relegated to a primarily European phenomenon. Analysts have estimated that Madkhalists and their allies comprise just over half of the Salafist movement in the Netherlands.\n\nOn Friday, 24 August 2012, Islamists loyal to Muhammad al-Madkhali, one of the movement's figureheads and Rabee al-Madkhali's brother, demolished Sufi shrines in Zliten in Libya with construction equipment and bulldozers. The act was condemnded by twenty-two NGOs, in addition to the post-war Libyan government's top religious official and UNESCO General Director Irina Bokova. The post-war Libyan government filed a complaint with the Saudi government regarding Muhammad al-Madkhali, who is a professor at the Islamic University of Madinah.\n\nAnother break between Madkhalists and the mainstream of purist Salafism has been the reaction to the Arab Spring. While most purist Salafists initially opposed both the Libyan Civil War and the Syrian Civil War, eventually they threw their support behind the opposition in both cases due to the extreme violence on the part of the Qaddafi and Asad regimes; the Madkhalists attacked the mainstream purists for these stances.\n\nMadkhalism is often compared to Wahhabism, sharing a number of tenents with the wider movement. Media analysts have warned against generalizing such Islamists movements despite their differences, however. Madkhali has borrowed heavily from elder Salafist scholar Muhammad Nasiruddin al-Albani; Madkhali adopted more extreme positions than Albani in his teaching, however, and Madkhalists were dismayed when Albani praised hardline clerics Safar Al-Hawali and Salman al-Ouda.\n\nA cornerstone of Madkhalist discourse is unquestioning loyalty to governments, even those that use extreme and unjustified violence against their subjects. Unlike other Islamist groups which often oppose dictatorial government in the Middle East, the Madkhalist movement is openly supportive of such regimes. Madkhalists argue that the governments of Arab countries rule by divine right, otherwise God would not have allowed them to take power; anyone who opposes their view is labeled as a member of the Khawarij, an ancient Muslim sect.\n\nRelations with governments of countries which are Muslim but not Arab have not always been as smooth. Both Madkhali brothers actively encouraged Muslims inside and outside of Indonesia to join the armed Maluku sectarian conflict which continued from the late 1990s until the early 2000s. In the year 2000, Muhammad al-Madkhali went so far as to declare the prohibition of jihad by then Indonesian President Abdurrahman Wahid, himself an internationally recognized Islamic scholar, as being contrary to sharia law.\n\nThough often lumped together with all other Salafists and Islamists, the Madkhalists have been noted for their opposition to and mutual rivalry with Salafist jihadism. The Madkhalist movement has been described as politically quietist, eschewing the organized political efforts of the mainstream of Salafism and even going as far as to declare those who participate in modern political system to be heretics or even apostates. Such politically active Salafists are often described by followers of Madkhalism as part of an international conspiracy against \"true Salafism.\" On the other hand, Western intelligence agencies have identified Madkhalists as a group which can be supported and funded discreetly by the US, in comparison to the rest of the groups seen under the wider Salafi movement.\n\nInteraction with non-Muslim societies, where most Madkhalists reside, also distinguishes the movement. While most Salafists in the Western world are noted for lack of participation in the wider society, Madkhalists in particular are noted for minimizing contact with non-Muslims. Also unlike the wider Islamist movement, Madkhalists seem uninterested in converting Western societies to Islam, preferring to simply accept and defend their rights as a minority community.\n\nThe polemics of the Madkhalists are markedly different from other Salafist groups as well. A noted feature of Madkhalism during Muslim dogmatic exchanges is attacking the opponent instead of discourse regarding the actual topic of discussion. The person of the movement's leader, Rabee al-Madkhali, also carries a heavy focus uncharacteristic of rival movements such as Qutbism. Madkhalists have been described as obsessed with defense of the movement's leader, often dramatising or exaggerating praise given by Salafist scholars and attempting to stifle or intimidate Salafists with opposing views to those of Madkhali and Madkhalists. A common mantra promoted by Madkhali is that questioning the movement's clerics is forbidden as a general rule, and only allowed in cases of necessity.\n"}
{"id": "51667814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51667814", "title": "Madonna della Ceriola", "text": "Madonna della Ceriola\n\nThe Sanctuary of Madonna della Ceriola (), is a Roman Catholic church in the municipality of Monte Isola, Italy. It is located on the summit of the lake island also named \"Monte Isola\".\n\nThe church is located at an elevation of 600 MSL in the highest point of the island, which offers a wide view of Lake Iseo and its surrounding mountains. The closest village to the sanctuary is Cure (466 MSL).\n\nA first church on the top of the mountain was built during the 13th century, likely on a pagan temple location. Present-day building was fulfilled in the 16th century, but its inner part was modified the following century by the insertion of a new chancel. The bell tower was built in 1750.\n\nThe church was the first Marian shrine to be built near Lake Iseo. The wooden statue worshipped in the shrine goes back to the 12th century and is known as Madonna \"della Ceriola\" presumabily because it was engraved in a block of Austrian oak wood (in Italian \"cerro\"). It represents the Holy Virgin on a throne taking baby Jesus with her arms.\n\nInside the church, with some frescoes and paintings and two fine saints' statues flanking the Virgin, there are many ex-voto tablets celebrating numerous miracles attributed the Madonna. One of the most resonant among them was the protection granted to the islanders against a cholera outbreak of 1816: in sign of gratitude every second Sunday of July is still celebrated a feast called \"Madonna del Cholera\" (\"Madonna of the Cholera\"). In 1924 the statue was solemnly coronated with a golden crown realised melted golden jeweley presented by the inhabitants of Monte Isola.\n\nThe Sanctuary is reached by a cobbled mule-track linking it with the village of Cure. Fifteen chapels built in the second part of the 20th century and depicting the mysteries of the Rosary are located alongside the last part of the track. The shrine can also be accessed following a longer walking path starting near Peschiera Maraglio jetty (185 MSL).\n"}
{"id": "7083868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7083868", "title": "Maya death rituals", "text": "Maya death rituals\n\nDeath rituals were an important part of Maya religion. The Maya greatly respected death; they were taught to fear it and grieved deeply for the dead. They also believed that certain deaths were more noble than others.\n\nThe Maya were ritualistic people, who paid great respect to the destructive nature of their gods. They had many traditions to commemorate the recently deceased and worship long-departed ancestors.\n\nPeople who died by suicide, sacrifice, complications of childbirth and in battle were thought to be transported directly into heaven.\n\nBefore Spanish influence, there may not have been a common idea of the afterlife. The Yucatec Maya believed that there were different routes after death. A pot from a Pacal tomb depicts ancestors of Maya kings sprouting through the earth like fruit trees and together creating an orchard. The Maya had several forms of ancestor worship. They built idols containing ashes of the dead and brought them food on festival days. Alternatively, a temple could be built over an urn. In those that were sacrificed, the most common way was cutting the abdomen, and taking out the heart.\n\nThe Maya dead were laid to rest with maize placed in their mouth. Maize, highly important in Maya culture, is a symbol of rebirth and also was food for the dead for the journey to the otherworld. Similarly, a jade or stone bead placed in the mouth served as currency for this journey. Often, whistles carved from rocks into the shapes of gods or animals were included in the grave offerings to help the deceased find their way to Xibalba. The Maya associated the color red with death and rebirth and often covered graves and skeletal remains with cinnabar. The bodies of the dead were wrapped in cotton mantles before being buried. Burial sites were oriented to provide access to the otherworld. Graves faced north or west, in the directions of the Maya heavens, and others were located in caves, entrances to the underworld. \nBurial practices of the Maya changed over the course of time. In the late Preclassic period, people were buried in a flexed position, later the dead were laid to rest in an extended position. In the late Classic period, the elite constructed vaulted tombs, and some rulers ordered the construction of large burial complexes. In the Postclassic period, cremation became more common.\n\nThe Maya believe that the soul is bound to the body at birth. Only death or sickness can part the body and soul, with death being the permanent parting. To them, there is an afterlife that the soul reaches after death. In that, deceased ancestors can still contact their descendants, answering advice when they are asked. This contact can be used at certain times in the season, or when certain family matters pertain to the ancestors. Understanding the perception of what the deceased do in their afterlife can give ideas towards what rituals need to be performed and what types of items one must be buried with in order to successfully navigate the afterlife.\n\nThe aspect of reincarnation is one strongly mentioned in Mayan beliefs and religion. The \"Popol Vuh\" gives importance to the Maize deity, and how the Mayan people themselves descended from maize people created by this god. In the \"Popol Vuh\" that the K'iche' Maya wrote, one of the few surviving codices, it tells the story of the reincarnation of the Maize god. In the tale, the maize god retreats to the underworld and with two hero twins battling the monsters and lords of the place, makes way back to the earthen world. He is reborn again, dies, and on and on the cycle continues. In this aspect, it is believed by the Mayans that the Earth itself is a living being. As they came from corn, consuming corn or having sex then brings one closer to the earth.\n\nThe concept of the afterlife, or Xibalba, differs between the Mayan ethnic groups. Many have a generalized belief of all souls going to the afterlife, being reincarnated or having another role to participate in after death, but these ideas change dramatically with the rise of Christianity. With that came the idea of Xibalba being a location of punishment. The longer one spent in Xibalba, the worse a life they led while living. With this belief, heaven became a paradise for many to strive for. The Chontal of Tabasco are an example of this.\n\nTo the Awakateko and the Chuj, the ancestors remain in contact and have the ability to affect the affairs of the living even in death. The Awakateko believed that the afterlife is a place where all ancestors remain, and that there is nowhere to pass on to. But to the Chuj, any contracts made with the dead are binding. If one does not follow these contracts, the ancestor can plague the one bound to the contract with illness or misfortune. To Them, they can contact their ancestors at altars, caves, or places connected to Mayan societies. The association of caves to the underworld is one intertwined with the older Mayan civilization and is an aspect continued by the Chuj people.\n\nThere are other ethnic groups that believe ritual items are needed in order to make the journey into the afterlife. The Lakandon bury their people facing the sun, and wrapped in a tunic and hammock. Q'eqchi' bury their dead in a straw sleeping mat, with a hat, sandals and a net provided to help in the journey to the afterlife. In others it was believed a dog was needed to help make the journey through the afterlife. Often a dog was ritually sacrificed, or an effigy buried along with the deceased in order to complete this task. Usually, the goods buried with the person were what the tribe believed was needed to complete one's cross into the next, whether it be the afterlife, heaven or reincarnation.\n\nOther ethnic groups believed that the spirits of the dead still had tasks to complete in the afterlife. The Mam, before fully accepting Christian values thought that the dead lived within volcanoes and other places. To the Tz'utujil, souls of the dead might be reincarnated or go to assist in moving the sun across the sky. The Tz'utujil in Santiago feared that souls of drowning victims inhabited the bottom of Lake Atitlan. With this difference in the idea of what one's ancestor does in death, came a change in how and what they were buried with. Those who still had a journey or a task may need more or less items, and it depended on how those of the tribe believed on what occurred after death.\n\nBut many ethnic groups also observed a celebration of their deceased ancestors later on. The Poqomam gather after death and hold a feast that may last for nine days. Then they pray for that deceased person every day of the dead for the next seven years. The Tzotzil of Chamula also have a similar holiday for celebrating the dead, though theirs occurs every year. Their belief is that souls return to visit and partake of food once a year, in a celebration called K'in Santo. The family members must perform a ritual to the deities to ask release of the souls of their dead relatives and to allow them entrance into the house.\n\nThere have been many archaeological discoveries of lavish tombs within ceremonial complexes from the Classic period. However, only a Maya city’s most important ruler was buried in this way. These aristocrats were placed in tombs at the bottoms of funerary pyramids that sometimes consisted of nine stepped platforms, perhaps symbolizing the nine layers of the underworld. Other temples were constructed with 13 vaults symbolizing the layers of the heavens in Maya cosmology. These temples reflected the continued worship of these nobles. In some instances, members of the royal family or young attendants would be sacrificed to accompany the lord in death.\n\nThe tombs were filled with precious goods including fine polychrome pottery, effigy figurines, jade and marble pieces, masks, mushroom figures. While these figures were found in Maya tombs, many of these items were also used in the service of food, drink and for additional ritual purposes. Obsidian and exotic shells have also been found in Mayan tombs. In the Tomb of the Red Queen inside Temple XIII in Palenque, the remains of a noble woman and all the objects inside the sarcophagus were completely covered with bright red vermilion dust, made of ground cinnabar, perhaps intended to suggest blood, the symbol of life.\n\nOther elite members of society were buried in vaults. The bodies of higher-ranking members of society were buried inside sarcophagi. They sometimes were buried in crypts or underneath the family home. These funerary constructions of the royal often destroyed the residence itself. Commoners were also buried near or under their houses. These graves did not have extensive burial offerings, but often contained objects that identified the individual: a tool or possession.\n\n"}
{"id": "1496127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1496127", "title": "Mírzá Muhammad `Alí", "text": "Mírzá Muhammad `Alí\n\nMírzá Muhammad `Alí (  1852–1937) was one of the sons of Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith. He was the eldest son of his father's second wife, Fatimih Khanum, later known as Mahd-i-'Ulya, whom Bahá'u'lláh married in Tehran in 1849. Muhammad `Alí received the title from his father of \"Ghusn-i-Akbar\" (\"Greatest Branch\" or \"Greater Branch\").\n\nMírzá Muhammad `Alí was born on December 16, 1853 in Baghdad during Bahá'u'lláh's first year of exile in that city. In 1863, at the age of nine, he accompanied his family in their exile to Constantinople and Adrianople. During the final days in Adrianople, Mírzá Muhammad `Alí wrote about eighty letters to the believers of the Bahá'í Faith, such as those in Baghdad and its surrounding towns. He also asked permission of his father to travel abroad and spread the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nAt the age of fifteen, when Baha’u’llah's family was imprisoned in Acre, the duty of copying Bahá'u'lláh's writings was given to Mírzá Muhammad `Alí.\n\nIn the \"Kitáb-i-‘Ahd\" (\"Book of the Covenant\"), Bahá'u'lláh appointed `Abdu'l-Bahá as his successor, with Muhammad `Ali given a station \"beneath\" that of `Abdu'l-Bahá. Both were noted explicitly by their titles, with Muhammad Ali being called \"Ghusn-i-Akbar\" and `Abdu'l-Bahá being called \"Ghusn-i-A'zam\". As time passed, Muhammad `Alí claimed that `Abdu'l-Bahá was not sharing power. According to some interpretations, Muhammad `Alí insisted that he should instead be regarded as the leader of the Bahá'ís. Many accusations were leveled against each other by both `Abdu'l-Bahá and Muhammad `Alí, culminating in Muhammad `Alí's accusing his older brother of conspiring against the Ottoman government. This resulted in the imprisonment and near-death of `Abdu'l-Bahá and his family. Almost all Bahá'ís accepted `Abdu'l-Bahá as Bahá'u'lláh's successor.\n\nAt the time of `Abdu'l-Bahá's death, Shoghi Effendi was appointed the Guardian of the Faith by `Abdu'l-Bahá in his \"Will and Testament\", while Muhammad `Alí was reprimanded in the same document as \"The Center of Sedition, the Prime Mover of mischief.\" Because Bahá'u'lláh's \"Kitáb-i-`Ahd\" named Muhammad `Alí as \"after\" `Abdu'l-Bahá's, he took the opportunity of `Abdu'l-Bahá's death to try to revive his claim to leadership, but his attempt to occupy the Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh by force left him on the losing end of a legal battle that removed any rights he had to the property.\n\nThe division between rival sects with Mírzá Muhammad `Alí and Shoghi Effendi as their respective leaders was short-lived and Shoghi Effendi emerged as the leader of the global Bahá'í community, labeling Muhammad `Alí the arch-breaker of the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh. Mírzá Muhammad `Alí would lead the small Unitarian Baha'i denomination. In 1904, he sent his oldest son, Shua Ullah Behai, to the United States where he led the Unitarian Baha'i community. From 1934 to 1937, Behai published \"Behai Quarterly\", a \"Unitarian\" Bahá'í magazine written in English and featuring the writings of Mirza Muhammad `Alí and various other Unitarian Bahais, including Ibrahim George Kheiralla. This schism had very little effect overall. In the `Akká area, the followers of Muhammad `Alí represented six families at most, they had no common religious activities, and were almost wholly assimilated into Muslim society. This group essentially disappeared. A modern academic observer has reported an ineffectual attempt to revive the claims of Muhammad Ali. Some of Mirza Muhammad `Alí's works that were preserved by his family have been published in \"A Lost History of the Baha'i Faith: The Progressive Tradition of Baha'u'llah's Forgotten Family.\"\n\nMirza Muhammad `Alí died on December 10, 1937, in Haifa Palestine. His remains were carried by hand from his house to King’s Way, a distance of one mile, where the remains were placed on a vehicle and escorted to Acre, where again he was carried by hand to his burial plot at Bahji, near the Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh. Memorial services were held at Haifa on Tuesday, January the 18th, 1938. Some supplications which were revealed by Bahá'u'lláh towards Mírzá Muhammad `Alí were recited:\n\nHis death was broadcast by radio stations, including the British Broadcasting Corporation. Some individuals who delivered memorial speeches include Abdullah Bey Mokhles (Professor and the Secretary of National Muslim Society), Bishop Hajjar (Archbishop of Acre for the Melkite Greek Catholic Church), Wadi Effendi Boustani (Arabian philosopher poet and prominent advocate), and Abu Salma (20th century Palestinian poet).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3899074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3899074", "title": "Prayer flag", "text": "Prayer flag\n\nA prayer flag is a colorful rectangular cloth, often found strung along mountain ridges and peaks high in the Himalayas. They are used to bless the surrounding countryside and for other purposes. Prayer flags are believed to have originated with Bon. In Bon, shamanistic \"Bonpo\" used primary-colored plain flags in Tibet. Traditional prayer flags include woodblock-printed text and images.\n\nNepal Sutras, originally written on cloth banners, were transmitted to other regions of the world as prayer flags. Legend ascribes the origin of the prayer flag to the Gautama Buddha, whose prayers were written on battle flags used by the \"devas\" against their adversaries, the \"asuras\". The legend may have given the Indian \"bhikku\" a reason for carrying the heavenly banner as a way of signifying his commitment to \"ahimsa\". This knowledge was carried into Tibet by 800 CE,and the actual flags were introduced no later than 1040 CE, where they were further modified. The Indian monk Atisha (980 – 1054 CE) introduced the Indian practice of printing on cloth prayer flags to Tibet and Nepal.\n\nDuring the Cultural Revolution, prayer flags were discouraged but not entirely eliminated. Many traditional designs may have been lost. Currently, different styles of prayer flags can be seen all across the Tibetan region.\n\nThere are two kinds of prayer flags: horizontal ones, called \"Lung ta\" (Wylie: \"rlung-rta\", meaning \"Wind Horse\") in Tibetan, and vertical ones, called \"Darchog\" (Wylie: \"dar-lcog\", meaning \"flagstaff\").\n\n\"Lung ta\" (horizontal) prayer flags are of square or rectangular shape, and are connected along their top edges to a long string or thread. They are commonly hung on a diagonal line from high to low between two objects (e.g., a rock and the top of a pole) in high places such as the tops of temples, monasteries, stupas, and mountain passes\n\n\"Darchog\" (vertical) prayer flags are usually large single rectangles attached to poles along their vertical edge. Darchog are commonly planted in the ground, mountains, cairns, and on rooftops, and are iconographically and symbolically related to the \"Dhvaja\".\n\nTraditionally, prayer flags come in sets of five: one in each of five colors. The five colors are arranged from left to right in a specific order: blue, white, red, green, and yellow. The five colors represent the five elements and the Five Pure Lights. Different elements are associated with different colors for specific traditions, purposes and sadhana. Blue symbolizes the sky and space, white symbolizes the air and wind, red symbolizes fire, green symbolizes water, and yellow symbolizes earth. According to Traditional Tibetan medicine, health and harmony are produced through the balance of the five elements.\n\nThe center of a prayer flag traditionally features a \"Lung ta\" (powerful or strong horse) bearing three flaming jewels (specifically \"ratna\") on its back. The \"Ta\" is a symbol of speed and the transformation of bad fortune to good fortune. The three flaming jewels symbolize the Buddha, the Dharma (Buddhist teachings), and the Sangha (Buddhist community): the three cornerstones of Tibetan philosophical tradition.\n\nSurrounding the \"Lung ta\" are various versions of approximately 400 traditional mantras, each dedicated to a particular deity. These writings include mantras from three of the great Buddhist Bodhisattvas: Padmasambhava (Guru Rinpoche), Avalokiteśvara (Chenrezig, the bodhisattva of compassion, and the patron of the Tibetan people), and Manjusri.\n\nIn addition to mantras, prayers for a long life of good fortune are often included for the person who mounts the flags.\n\nImages or the names of four powerful animals, also known as the Four Dignities, adorn each corner of a flag: the dragon, the garuda, the tiger, and the snowlion.\n\nTraditionally, prayer flags are used to promote peace, compassion, strength, and wisdom. The flags do not carry prayers to gods, which is a common misconception; rather, the Tibetans believe the prayers and mantras will be blown by the wind to spread the good will and compassion into all pervading space. Therefore, prayer flags are thought to bring benefit to all.\n\nBy hanging flags in high places the \"Lung ta\" will carry the blessings depicted on the flags to all beings. As wind passes over the surface of the flags, which are sensitive to the slightest movement of the wind, the air is purified and sanctified by the mantras.\n\nThe prayers of a flag become a permanent part of the universe as the images fade from exposure to the elements. Just as life moves on and is replaced by new life, Tibetans renew their hopes for the world by continually mounting new flags alongside the old. This act symbolizes a welcoming of life's changes and an acknowledgment that all beings are part of a greater ongoing cycle.\n\nAccording to traditional belief, because the symbols and mantras on prayer flags are sacred, they should be treated with respect. They should not be placed on the ground or used on clothing. Old prayer flags should be burned.\n\nSome believe that if the flags are hung on inauspicious astrological dates, they may bring negative results for as long as they are flying. The best time to put up new prayer flags is in the morning on sunny, windy days.\n\nOld prayer flags are replaced with new ones annually on the Tibetan New Year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25912789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25912789", "title": "Psilocybe jaliscana", "text": "Psilocybe jaliscana\n\nPsilocybe jaliscana is a species of mushroom in the Strophariaceae family. The mushroom contains the medicinal compound psilocybin.\n\n"}
{"id": "13290537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13290537", "title": "Ralph Wendell Burhoe", "text": "Ralph Wendell Burhoe\n\nRalph Wendell Burhoe (May 21 or June 21, 1911 – May 8, 1997) was an important twentieth century pioneer interpreter of the importance of religion for a scientific and technological world. He was awarded the Templeton Prize in 1980.\n\nRalph Wendell Burhoe was born on 21 June 1911, in Somerville, Massachusetts. He attended Harvard University from 1928 to 1932 as a student of meteorology and climatology, though never completing his degree. He then entered Andover Newton Theological School. Burhoe spent eighteen months in theological study at Andover. Instead of becoming a minister as he had planned, he returned to Harvard University as an employee of the Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory, finding some success as a scientist. He went on to become the first full-time executive director of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences starting in 1947. His position at the AAAS brought him into close contact with such eminent scientists as the astronomer Harlow Shapley, the geologist Kirtley Mather, and the biologist George Wald. While there, he was one of the founders of the Institute on Religion in an Age of Science. In 1965, Burhoe joined the faculty at the Meadville Lombard Theological School, the Unitarian Universalist seminary then in Hyde Park, Chicago. There he facilitated the founding of \"\" and the Center for Advanced Study in Religion and Science (CASIRAS). After retiring from Meadville in 1974 he was affiliated with the Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago, where in 1988 he founded the Chicago Center for Religion and Science. His ashes are interred in the crypt at First Unitarian Church of Chicago where he was a member.\n\nRalph Wendell Burhoe pursued a passionate investigation into the differences and similarities of theology and science, becoming one of the world's most informed voices in communicating this evolving research. He played a major role in the interdisciplinary pursuit of issues at the boundary of science and religion by offering a common ground for dialogue. According to theologian Hans Schwarz, the journal Zygon has \"achieved a circulation far beyond the confines of theological journals.\" \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41507406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41507406", "title": "Secularism in Syria", "text": "Secularism in Syria\n\nA process of secularization in Syria occurred under the French mandate in the 1920s. Syria has been governed by the Arab nationalist Baath Party since 1963. The Baath regime combined Arab Socialism with elements of secular ideology and an authoritarian political system which also incorporated aspects of Islamic law, with different court systems operating for religious minorities. Non-Muslims are forbidden from the role of head of state.\n\nThe Constitution of Syria, drafted in 1973, makes Islam the state religion. The third article ruled that:\n(1) The religion of the President of the Republic has to be Islam.\n(2) Islamic jurisprudence is a main source of legislation.\nHowever, Article 35 guarantees religious freedom for every recognized religious communities:\n(1) The freedom of faith is guaranteed. The state respects all religions.\n(2) The state guarantees the freedom to hold any religious rites, provided they do not disturb the public order.\n\nAfter the Syrian revolution began, the Constitution was amended in 2012. Article 3 now read:\nThe religion of the President of the Republic is Islam; Islamic jurisprudence shall be a major source of legislation; The State shall respect all religions, and ensure the freedom to perform all the rituals that do not prejudice public order; The personal status of religious communities shall be protected and respected.\n\nPersonal status law is still based on Sharia and applied by Sharia Courts. Syria has a dual legal system which includes both secular and religious courts.Civil and criminal cases are heard in secular courts, while the Sharia courts handle personal, family, and religious matters in cases between Muslims or between Muslims and non-Muslims. Non-Muslim communities have their own religious courts using their own religious law. \n\nAfter Russian-brokered peace talks between Syrian civil war parties in Astana in January 2017, Russia offered a draft for a future constitution of Syria, which would inter alia turn the \"Syrian Arab Republic\" into the \"Republic of Syria\", introduce decentralized authorities as well as elements of federalism like \"association areas\", strengthen the parliament at the cost of the presidency, and realize secularism by abolishing Islamic jurisprudence as a source of legislation.\n\nIn the de facto autonomous Democratic Federation of Northern Syria, secularism was introduced, including civil law in personal status, proclaiming absolute equality of women under the law and a ban on forced marriage as well as polygamy, while underage marriage was outlawed as well. For the first time in Syrian history, civil marriage is being allowed and promoted.\n"}
{"id": "3354744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3354744", "title": "Shilahara", "text": "Shilahara\n\nThe Shilahara Dynasty (IAST: Śilāhāra; also Sinhara, Shailahara, Shrilara, or Silara) was a royal clan that established itself in northern and southern Konkan, present-day Mumbai and southern Maharashtra during the Rashtrakuta period.\n\nThey were split into three branches; one branch ruled North Konkan, the second South Konkan (between 765 and 1029), while the third ruled what is now known as modern districts of Satara, Kollapura and Belagavi between 940 and 1215 after which they were overwhelmed by the Chalukya.\n\nThe dynasty originally began as vassals of the Rashtrakuta dynasty which ruled the Deccan plateau between the 8th and 10th centuries. Govinda II, a Rashtrakuta king, conferred the kingdom of North Konkan (modern districts of Thane, Mumbai and Raigad) on Kapardin (Sanskrit: Wearing the kaparda, a peculiar braid or knot of hair - also a term for god Shiva/ Rishabhanatha) I, founder of the Northern Silhara family, around 800. Since then North Konkan came to be known as Kapardi-dvipa or Kavadidvipa. The capital of this branch was Puri, now known as Rajapur in the Raigad District.\n\nThe dynasty bore the title of \"Tagara-puradhishvara\", which indicates that they originally hailed from Tagara (modern Ter in the Osmanabad District).\n\nAround 1343 the island of Salsette, and eventually the whole archipelago, passed to the Muzaffarid dynasty.\n\nShilaharas of Southern Maharashtra at Kolhapur was the latest of the three and was founded about the time of downfall of the Rashtrakuta Empire.\n\nAll the branches of this family traced their descent from the legendary Vidyadhara prince Jimutavahana, who sacrificed himself to rescue a Naga prince from the clutches of Garuda. The family-name \"Shilahara\" (meaning \"mountain-peak food\" in Sanskrit) is supposed to have been derived from this incident. Even single inscriptions have more than one form of the name, one has the three forms Silara, Shilara and Shrillara.\n\nLassen suggests that the Shilaharas were of Afghan origin as Silar Kafirs are still found in Afghanistan, but the \"Ayya\" used in the names of almost all their ministers and the non-Sanskrit names of some of the chiefs support the view that they were of Kannada origin. The Shilaharas of South Konkan were the vassals of Rashtrakutas and ruled from 765 to 1020.\n\n<mapframe text=\"Find spots of inscriptions issued during the reign of the Shilaharas of North Konkan\" width=\"400\" height=\"400\" zoom=\"7\" longitude=\"72.99\" latitude=\"18.4\">\n</mapframe>\n\nAfter Rashtrakuta power became weak the last known ruler of this family, Rattaraja, declared his independence. But Chalukya Jayasimha, the younger brother of Vikramaditya, overthrew him and appropriated his possessions. North Konkan was conquered by the Rashtrakuta king Dantidurga sometime in the second quarter of the eighth century.\n\nAs per R Narasimhacharya, names like Vappuvanna, Lasthiyavva, etc. betrayed the Kannada origin of Silaharas of Thana.\n\n\n<mapframe text=\"Find spots of inscriptions issued during the reign of the Shilaharas of South Konkan\" width=\"400\" height=\"400\" zoom=\"7\" longitude=\"74.03\" latitude=\"16.48\">\n</mapframe>\nThis house's history is known through one record, the Kharepatan plates of Rattaraja issued in 1008. Rattaraja was the last ruler of this dynasty. The document is extremely important as it not only gives the genealogy of the ten ancestors of Rattaraja but also mentions their exploits. The founder, Sanaphulla, was vassal of the Rastrakuta emperor Krisna I who had established his power over Konkan by 765 and probably handed it to Sanaphulla. The Kharepatan plates declare that Sanaphulla obtained lordship over the territory between Sahya mountain and the sea through the favour of Krisnaraja.\n\nSana-phulla's son Dhammayira is known to have built a fort at Vallipattana on the Western Coast. Aiyaparaja secured victory at Chandrapuri (Chandor) in Goa. The reign of Avasara I proved to be uneventful. His son Adityavarman, who described as brilliant as the Sun in valour, offered help to the kings of Chandrapuri and Chemulya (modern Chaul), 30 miles to the south of Bombay, so the influence of the Shilaharas had spread over the whole of Konkan. At this time Laghu Kapardi, the ruler of the Thane branch, was just a boy and the help given to the ruler of Chaul must have been at his expense. Avasara II continued the policy of his father. Indraraja's son Bhima is styled as 'Rahuvadgrasta Chandramandala' because he overthrew the petty ruler of Chandor. At this time the Kadamba ruler Sasthadeva and his son Chaturbhuja were trying to overthrow the Rastrakuta rule. This explains Bhima's opposition to Chandrapuri or Chandor. Avasara III, no doubt, ruled in troubled times, but had no contribution of his to make. Finally, Rattaraja, loyal to the Rastrakutas, was compelled to transfer his allegiance to Taila II .\n\nSoon after the issue of the plates in 1008, the rule of Konkan passed over to the later Chalukyas. (Dept. Gazetteer: Kolaba,1964, Dept. Gazetteer: 2002 )\n\n\n<mapframe text=\"Find spots of inscriptions issued during the reign of the Shilaharas of Kolhapur\" width=\"400\" height=\"400\" zoom=\"7\" longitude=\"74.28\" latitude=\"16.66\">\n</mapframe>\nThe Shilahara family at Kolhapur was the latest of the three and was founded about the time of the downfall of the Rashtrakuta Empire. They ruled over southern Maharashtra; the modern districts of Satara, Kolhapur and Belgaon. Their family deity was the goddess Mahalakshmi, whose blessing they claimed to have secured in their copperplate grants (Mahalakshmi-labdha-vara-prasada). Like their relatives of the northern branch of Konkan, the Shilaharas of Kolhapur claimed to be of the lineage of the Vidyadhara Jimutavahana. They carried the banner of golden Garuda. One of the many titles used by the Shilaharas was \"Tagarapuravaradhisvara\", supreme sovereign ruler of Tagara.\n\nThe first capital of the Shilaharas was probably at Karad during the reign of Jatiga-II as known from their copper plate grant of Miraj and 'Vikramankadevacharita' of Bilhana. Hence sometimes they are referred as 'Shilaharas of Karad'. Later on although the capital was shifted to Kolhapur, some of their grants mention Valavada, and the hill fort of Pranalaka or Padmanala, (Panhala) as the places of royal residence. Even though the capital was shifted to Kolhapur, Karhad retained its significance during the Shilahara period. This branch rose to power the latter part of the Rashtrakuta rule and so, unlike the kings of the other two branches, those of this branch do not mention the genealogy of the Rashtrakutas even in their early grants. Later on they acknowledged the suzerainty of the later Chalukya for some time. \"They had used Kannada as the official language as can be seen from their inscriptions\". This branch continued to hold the Southern Maharashtra from circa 940 to 1220.\n\nIt seems that Bhoja II, the last ruler of this family, was overthrown and dispossessed by Singhana in or soon after 1219-20 (Saka 1131) as is borne out by one of Singhana’s inscriptions dated Saka 1160.\n\n\nA number of ancient monuments in Mumbai and Kolhapur district pay tribute to this dynasty's prowess:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7888463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7888463", "title": "Squire Fridell", "text": "Squire Fridell\n\nSquire Fridell (born February 9, 1943) is an American actor and co-owner and operator of GlenLyon Vineyards, perhaps best known for his infectious enthusiasm displayed in over three thousand television commercials.\n\nSince 1978, he has portrayed “The Toyotaman” in American TV ads for The Toyota Motor Corporation. From 1985 to 1991, he served as the official \"Ronald McDonald\" clown character in American television commercials for the McDonald's Corporation chain of fast-food restaurants, and even played the character in \"Mac and Me\" and the voice talent of a character in the 1989 DiC animated film \"The Adventures of Ronald McDonald: McTreasure Island\". From the 1970s until the mid-1990s, Fridell also had supporting character roles in a number of popular TV series, such as \"Rosetti and Ryan\", \"M*A*S*H\", \"Newhart\", \"Ironside\" and \"Adam-12\".\n\nIn 1980, Harmony Books published Fridell's book, \"Acting in Television Commercials for Fun and Profit\", subsequently re-released by Random House in 2005.\n\nFridell returned as himself in several Toyota commercials in 2010, responding to the image damage the company suffered due to a slow response to safety issues in 2009.\n\nIn the summer of 1961, Squire Fridel III, was a seasonal firefighter for the California Department of Forestry (CDF), (now called Cal-Fire) and was stationed at the Alder Point Station in Humboldt, California. He reported directly to CDF Engineer Del Schank, Sr. who went on to make a career in the CDF as a fire captain and still lives in Napa, CA. He is fondly remembered for his cooking abilities and his midnight appropriations of car fenders. His sense of humor was clearly evident even at this early stage of his life. That same summer, he worked with the now-famous Keith Kay, of NBC and CBS War Photographer and producer fame.\n\nFridell, Squire. \"Acting in Television Commercials for Fun and Profit\", 4th Edition (2009). Penguin Random House.\n\nFridell was born in Oakland, California. He attended the University of the Pacific where he was a member of Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. He currently resides with his wife, Suzy, at Glen Ellen (in the Sonoma Valley region of that state) where they have operated the GlenLyon Vineyards and Winery since 1989. Squire and Suzy (a professional dancer and dance teacher for many years) have one daughter, Lexy, who is pursuing an acting career in New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "4070774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4070774", "title": "Sternomancy", "text": "Sternomancy\n\nSternomancy, from the Greek sternon (chest) is a divination practice involving reading the markings or bumps on the chest or breast bone (or the area \"from the breast to the belly\", according to some sources). Sternomancy may have been commonly practiced on victims of sacrifice, including human sacrifice. Sternomancy may also include speaking through the chest (believed to be an early form of ventriloquism).\n\nThe size and shape of the sternum bone are taken into consideration, as well as the way in which the bone burns when placed into a fire. The old holiday custom of the breaking of a chicken's or turkey's wishbone by two persons is actually a remnant of this type of divination.\n\nSternomancy is related to phrenology (head-reading), palmistry (chiromancy) and scapulomancy (divination by observing animal shoulder-blades).\n\nMemoirs of Extraordinary Popular Delusions, by Charles MacKay\n"}
{"id": "12403736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12403736", "title": "The Religious Institute on Sexual Morality, Justice, and Healing", "text": "The Religious Institute on Sexual Morality, Justice, and Healing\n\nThe Religious Institute, Inc. is a progressive American multi-faith organization dedicated to advocating for sexual health, education, and justice in faith communities and society. It was co-founded in 2001 by Debra Haffner, a Unitarian Universalist minister and sexologist, and Larry Greenfield, an American Baptist minister and theologian.\n\nThe Religious Institute’s stated purpose is \"to change the way America understands the relationship of sexuality and religion\". Among its objectives are building a network of clergy and other religious leaders who are dedicated to sexual justice, promoting sexuality education in faith communities, and educating policymakers and the general public about a progressive religious view of sexuality.\n\nIn May 1999, twenty theologians from various traditions came together to formulate the \"Religious Declaration on Sexual Morality, Justice, and Healing\". It offers a progressive religious framework for sexuality. As of 2006, it had been endorsed by over 2,250 religious leaders from over 35 religious traditions.\n\nAt its inception, the Religious Institute was a program of Christian Community, Inc. That organization became defunct in February 2012. In March 2012, the Religious Institute incorporated as an independent organization, Religious Institute, Inc, and received IRS recognition as a non-profit educational organization shortly thereafter.\n\nThe Religious Institute addresses a variety of sexual and reproductive justice concerns through advocacy, education, and development of resources as well as through partnerships with clergy and congregations, national religious organizations, and sexual and reproductive health organization.\n\nThe Religious Institute believes that all religious communities are responsible for addressing sexuality. It defines a sexually healthy faith community as one that is “committed to fostering spiritual, sexual, and emotional health among the congregation and providing a safe environment where sexuality issues are addressed with respect, mutuality, and openness.” Sexuality is integrated with spirituality in liturgies, pastoral care, religious education with both youth and adults, and in community social action programs.\n\nThe Religious Institute believes that religious communities have a unique role in providing sexuality education. Its publication \"A Time to Speak: Faith Communities and Sexuality Education\" provides ideas and resources for faith communities on how to provide sexuality education for their congregants as well as support sexuality education in their communities.\n\nThe Religious Institute has engaged seminaries in the United States to institute new courses and institutional changes on sexuality issues, through sexuality education for seminarians, including a classroom graduate course; an online, graduate-level course; faculty and student training workshops; and ongoing research on seminary practices.\nThis work builds on a 2009 study by the Religious Institute, \"Sex and the Seminary: Preparing Ministers for Sexual Justice and Health\" that surveyed 36 seminaries and rabbinical schools of varying size and geographic location, representing a range of Christian, Jewish and Unitarian Universalist traditions, which found sexuality courses largely absent from most seminary curricula and degree requirements. This study also outlines the criteria by which a seminary, rabbinical or divinity school could be considered as sexually healthy and responsible.\n\nIn January 2012, the Religious Institute began classifying seminaries, rabbinical and divinity school meeting a majority of the criteria as Sexually Healthy and Responsible Seminaries. At that time, twenty institutions met this criteria, compared to ten at the time of the 2009 study.\n\nThe Religious Institute feels that faith communities serve more youth than any other agency other than schools and therefore has the opportunity and obligation to have honest discussions with adolescents about sexuality. The Institute encourages faith communities to speak openly with teens about their sexuality, provide accurate information, and affirm sexuality as a blessing.\n\nThe Religious Institute affirms the moral agency of women and asks faith communities to support reproductive rights. It holds that abortion should be safe, legal, accessible, and rare. It supports \"responsible procreation\", accessible and affordable contraception, prenatal care, and \"intentional parenting\".\n\nThe Religious Institute believes that marriage equality concerns not only issues of gaining access to legal protections for same-sex couples, but it is also a matter of justice. It calls upon religious communities to affirm sexual diversity and all loving, mutual relationships as sacred.\n\nThe Religious Institute challenges religious leaders to speak publicly about issues of sexual diversity and to advocate, both in secular and faith-based contexts, for the justice and the full inclusion of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people, including the ordination of LGBT clergy. On the completion of the Institute's \"Open Letter to Religious Leaders on Sexual and Gender Diversity\", Haffner commented, “Sexual and gender oppression can no longer be portrayed as virtuous and morally defensible. While religious denominations continue to debate issues of sexuality, the silence and condemnation of clergy have led to destroyed relationships, suicidal despair and discrimination and violence against LGBT persons. Denying that God created diversity as a blessing is denying Biblical teaching.\"\n\nThe Religious Institute recognizes the responsibility of each faith community to ensure that it is sexually healthy and free of abuse and harassment. It works with congregations on issues of child sexual abuse and healthy childhood sexuality, sexual offenses and offenders, and how to develop democratic processes for times when action is required.\n\nThe Religious Institute believes that all faith communities are \"called by God to affirm a life of hope and healing in the midst of HIV/AIDS.\" In its publication \"The Age of AIDS: A Guide for Faith-Based Communities\" the Religious Institute in conjunction with PBS, Frontline, and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting(CPB) provides resources for faith communities in responding to the HIV/AIDS pandemic.\n\nThe Religious Institute staff work with clergy, congregations, and denominational bodies on a one-time, short-term, or long-term basis to address sexuality issues. Staff can help choose or plan curricula, develop safe congregation policies, identify local consultants or referral sources, and respond to difficult situations and circumstances around a sexuality issue.\n\nThe Religious Institute provides keynote speakers and workshop leaders for congregations as well as regional and national meetings on sexuality, spirituality, and religion; sexuality education for youth, parents, and adults; building sexually healthy faith communities; and other sexuality and religion topics.\n\nReligious Institute staff assist the media in identifying spokespeople from various denominations to speak on sexual justice issues.\n\nThe Religious Institute's clearinghouse includes information on sexuality and religion, including practices, resources, trends, and current controversies.\n\n"}
{"id": "10741371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10741371", "title": "Thomas L. Thompson", "text": "Thomas L. Thompson\n\nThomas L. Thompson (born January 7, 1939 in Detroit, Michigan) is a biblical scholar and theologian. He was professor of theology at the University of Copenhagen from 1993 to 2009, lives in Denmark and is now a Danish citizen.\n\nThompson is closely associated with the minimalist movement known as The Copenhagen School (other figures include Niels Peter Lemche, Keith Whitelam, and Philip R. Davies), a loosely knit group of scholars who hold that the Bible cannot be used as a source to determine the history of ancient Israel, and that \"Israel\" itself is a problematic concept.\n\nThompson was raised as a Catholic and obtained a B.A. from Duquesne University, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States, in 1962. After a year in Oxford, he moved to Tübingen, where he studied for twelve years with Kurt Galling and Herbert Haag. In the meantime he was instructor in theology at Dayton University (1964–65) and Assistant Professor in Old Testament studies at the University of Detroit (1967–69). He then studied Catholic Theology at the University of Tübingen; his dissertation, \"The Historicity of the Patriarchal Narratives: The Quest for the Historical Abraham\", was completed in 1971 but rejected by the Catholic faculty (one of his examiners was Joseph Ratzinger, then Tübingen's Professor of Systematic Theology and later Pope Benedict XVI). Thompson then considered submitting his dissertation to the Protestant faculty, but left Tübingen in 1975 without a degree. The rejected dissertation was published in 1974 by De Gruyter Press. The work, together with John Van Seters' \"Abraham in History and Tradition\", became one of the pioneer works of Biblical minimalism.\n\nWhile teaching part-time at the University of North Carolina he was invited to finish his studies at Temple University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, receiving his Ph.D. in Old Testament Studies \"summa cum laude\" in 1976.\n\nThe controversy around his dissertation prevented him from obtaining a position at a North American university. He continued as a private scholar while working as a high school teacher, janitor and house painter until he was awarded a guest professorship at the École Biblique in Jerusalem in 1984. This appointment proved controversial among Israelis, who, according to Thompson, objected to his earlier study casting doubt on the historicity of the Jewish origin narratives. He then worked on a project on Palestinian place names for UNESCO, criticizing Israeli authorities for de-Arabicizing Palestinian place names. Accusations of antisemitism led to the project being closed.\n\nThompson was named a National Endowment for the Humanities Fellow in 1988. He taught as visiting associate professor at Lawrence University (1988–89) and as associate professor at Marquette University (1989–1993), but did not receive tenure. In 1990, he met Danish theologian Niels Peter Lemche at a conference and in 1993 joined the faculty of the department of Theology at the University of Copenhagen as Professor in Old Testament exegesis. He retired and was granted emeritus status in 2009.\n\nThompson is general editor for the series \"Copenhagen International Seminar\" and associate editor of the \"Scandinavian Journal of the Old Testament\", and serves on the editorial boards of the journals \"Holy Land Studies\" and \"Dansk Teologisk Tidsskrift\".\n\nThe focus of Thompson's writing has been the interface between the Bible (specifically the Old Testament) and archaeology. His \"The Historicity of the Patriarchal Narratives\" (1974) was a critique of the then-dominant view that biblical archaeology had demonstrated the historicity of figures such as Abraham and other Biblical patriarchs. His \"The Early History of the Israelite People From the Written and Archaeological Sources\" (1993) set out his argument that the biblical history was not reliable, and concludes: \"The linguistic and literary reality of the biblical tradition is folkloristic in essence. The concept of a \"benei Israel\" ... is a reflection of no sociopolitical entity of the historical state of Israel of the Assyrian period...\" In \"\" (U.S. title: \"The Mythic Past: Biblical Archaeology and the Myth of Israel\"), he argued that the Old Testament was entirely, or almost entirely, a product of the period between the fifth and second centuries B.C.\n\nThompson's arguments were criticized by many Biblical scholars, prominent among them William G. Dever in his book \"What Did the Biblical Writers Know and When Did They Know It?\", which has been described as \"a very polemic and partly vehement attack not least against Professor Thomas L. Thompson\". Thompson himself reviewed Dever's book and provided his own responses to Dever's critiques. The fact that Thompson, as a target of many of the critiques advanced in the book would have chosen to review it, was criticized by H. Hagelia.\n\nThompson presented a criticism of the historicity of the New Testament in his 2005 book, \"The Messiah Myth: The Near Eastern Roots of Jesus and David\", He argues that the biblical accounts of both King David and Jesus of Nazareth are mythical in nature and based on Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Babylonian, and Greek and Roman literature. For example, he argues that the resurrection of Jesus is taken directly from the myths about Dionysus, which he described as a \"dying and rising god\". Thompson did not draw a final conclusion on the historicity or ahistoricity of Jesus. He was a fellow of the short-lived Jesus Project from 2008 to 2009 which was disbanded after funding was cancelled.\n\n\"The Messiah Myth\" was criticized by New Testament scholars such as Bart Ehrman, who in 2012 published a criticism of Jesus ahistoricity theory proponents, \"Did Jesus Exist? The Historical Argument for Jesus of Nazareth\", in which he critiqued Thompson's arguments and criticized Thompson, as an Old Testament scholar, for lacking the sufficient background in New Testament studies to provide a useful analysis of the text. In the 2012 Thompson responded with the online article, \"Is This Not the Carpenter’s Son? A Response to Bart Ehrman\", in which he rejects Ehrman's characterization of his views as \"mythicist\".\n\nThompson and Thomas Verenna coedited the 2012 book \"Is This Not the Carpenter?: The Question of the Historicity of the Figure of Jesus\". The introduction defined the purpose of the collected essays: \"Neither establishing the historicity of an historical Jesus nor possessing an adequate warrant for dismissing it, our purpose is to clarify our engagement with critical historical and exegetical methods.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51676450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51676450", "title": "Uparkot Caves", "text": "Uparkot Caves\n\nUparkot caves, also Uperkot caves, are ancient man-made caverns. The caves are a part of the Junagadh Buddhist Cave Groups situated in the eastern part of Junagadh of the Indian state of Gujarat.\n\nThese caves located at Uperkot beyond the 300 ft deep moat, close to Adi Kadi vav, were carved in 2nd–3rd century A.D. These caves have influence of Satavahana architecture with combination of \"Graeco-Scythian\" style.\n\nAccording to ASI \"The cave group is in three tiers, with all members of each galleries shown in semi-relief, but only two storeys having regular floors. The caves at Uparkot are cut into two floors. On the first floor, there is a \"Kunda\", a deep tank about 11 feet square, with a covered verandah round three sides of it. There is a big chamber with six pillars supporting the roof adjoining it. Under the corridor, in the rest of the area, in the walls on the north-east and west sides are stone bench-recesses, divided into long compartments with a base moulded in architectural courses below, and a frieze above, ornamented with horseshoe shaped \"chaitya\" windows and checker carvings. On the lower floor, there are similar rooms, having a corridor, pillars supporting the floor above, stone bench-recesses and above them, the \"chaitya\"-window ornament.\n\nThe lower floor has exquisitely carved pillars whose base, shaft and capital carry unique decorative design. These caves are gilded with beautiful pillars and entrances, water cisterns, horseshoe shaped chaitya windows, an assembly hall and cell for meditation.\n"}
{"id": "30536757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30536757", "title": "White Tulip", "text": "White Tulip\n\n\"White Tulip\" is the 18th episode of the second season of the American science fiction drama television series \"Fringe\". It follows a scientist (Peter Weller) in his quest to time travel back and save his fiancée, while the Fringe team investigates the consequences of his actions, and Walter (John Noble) struggles to tell his son Peter (Joshua Jackson) he was stolen from the parallel universe as a boy.\n\nThe episode was co-written by J.H. Wyman and Jeff Vlaming, and was directed by Thomas Yatsko. Wyman later stressed the importance of \"White Tulip\" in the show's evolution, calling it a \"mythalone\" because its elements were designed to create the ideal episode to satisfy both new and hardcore viewers. Elements from this episode, in particular the idea of the white tulip as a sign of forgiveness, would be reused in later episodes.\n\nIt first aired in the United States on April 15, 2010 on Fox to an estimated 6.624 million viewers. It received positive reviews, and earned a nomination for Outstanding Sound Editing For A Series at the 62nd Primetime Emmy Awards. It was ranked the best episode of the entire series by \"Entertainment Weekly\", while IGN and Den of Geek ranked it as the second best.\n\nWalter (John Noble) struggles with writing a letter to Peter (Joshua Jackson) to explain the events from 1985 that led Walter to bring Peter to his universe from the parallel one. As he contemplates the final letter, he and the rest of the Fringe team are called to investigate several dead bodies in a passenger car of a train. Walter, after being told the victims' personal electronics were drained of power, suspects someone drew energy from both the people and their devices' batteries. They trace the man responsible to MIT astrophysics professor Alistair Peck (Peter Weller), and enter his residence to search for clues, finding evidence that Alistair was studying time travel. Alistair arrives while the Fringe team is there, and activates a mechanism on his body, causing him to travel back in time.\n\nAlistair reappears on the train at the same point in time as his previous travel, again having drained the people aboard it, and alters his behavior to avoid another encounter with the Fringe team. However, when they are brought to investigate this time, they have a feeling of déjà vu and find other evidence that points to Alistair, and determine that he is trying to go back in his personal time line several months ago to prevent the death of his fiancée in a car collision. Alistair is found at his MIT office. Walter, having read through Alistair's writings on time travel, offers to go in and talk to Alistair first before the armed officers attempt to seize him.\nWalter approaches Alistair as a fellow man of science, who is replacing components that form a time machine that he has constructed within his body. Walter professes that Alistair's attempt to jump back several months would require a great deal more power than Alistair has predicted, possibly killing hundreds in the area near where he appears. Alistair, aware of this, recalls an empty field where he was at, a few blocks from where his fiancée died, and plans to use this field where only the vegetation will die out from his arrival. Walter tells Alistair how to correct the mistake that caused him to jump to the train but warns him of the other consequences that changing events will bring, explaining that stealing Peter from the parallel universe has left him wracked with regret. Despite being a man of science, Walter's torment over the years drove him to believe in a higher power, and he hopes for a sign of God's forgiveness—and thus, eventually, Peter's—in the form of a white tulip.\n\nAlistair considers this, but with Walter's time up, a SWAT team starts to move in. Alistair jumps back in time again by only a few hours to complete the modified power calculations based on Walter's comments, and to prepare a pre-addressed letter he brings with him. As the SWAT team barges in, Alistair re-engages his time machine. Alistair's modifications have worked, as he finds himself in the field, minutes before his fiancée's death. Alistair is able to make it to his fiancée in time, reuniting with her in the car just long enough to say \"I love you\" before they are both killed by the collision.\n\nIn the present, the events of the episode never occurred, and Walter, having time to contemplate the letter to Peter instead of being called to the case, tosses it into the fireplace. Later, he receives an envelope in the mail—the one Alistair had prepared and instructed to be delivered to Walter on this specific date. Inside, Walter finds a drawing of a white tulip.\n\n\"White Tulip\" was co-written by executive producer J. H. Wyman and supervising producer Jeff Vlaming. Cinematographer Thomas Yatsko directed the episode, his first directing credit for \"Fringe\".\n\nIGN announced in January 2010 that actor Peter Weller had been cast in a guest starring role for an upcoming episode. Though he had normally kept his distance from episodic television because it \"burns [him] out\" and he was pursuing a Ph.D at UCLA, his wife, a big \"Fringe\" fan, read the script and convinced him to accept the part of Alistair Peck, telling him \"You've got to do this, it's beautiful, it's about a guy who wants to save his wife\". During a conference call with journalists, Weller also cited the character's \"tremendously romantic and very moving\" storyline as another reason he accepted the part. He thought the four-page scripted scene between him and John Noble was \"rare for television [and] wonderfully written. I was thrilled to do [\"Fringe\"]\". Weller has since become a fan of \"Fringe\" because of his work in the episode, and would love to return and direct for the show. In a later Twitter post, Wyman dismissed speculation and confirmed that Weller's character Alistair Peck did indeed die at the end of the episode.\n\nFor the episode's time travel elements, sound effects editor Bruce Tanis explained his choices of sound during an interview with \"Designing Sound\": \"I used vocals from the dialog to create high-pitched jittery tones that played against the visual of his time-jumping. He would start to flicker faster and faster as he ramped up to the moment of leaping so I wanted to play up the fragmented sense of time we had visually and create the idea that he was somehow jumping over other people to land at a different point in time. It also had electrical humming and zapping to support the electrical nature of the device\".\n\nExecutive producer J. H. Wyman later indicated how \"White Tulip\" helped with the evolution of the show in an interview: \"It's very important to constantly try to attract more viewers and to try and not make the show alienating... Our solution came in the form of ‘White Tulip' and episodes like that, because we realized what we need to do to satiate both our hardcore fans and our financial responsibility is to create a term that we coined a 'mythalone.' It sounds really simple when you say it now, like, ‘Yes, sure, you have a great standalone case, plus you thread in some great mythology.' But I've got to tell you it took us a long time to get there and realize it. Now we have that our template for telling stories that we think satisfies both parties\". He and Pinkner later listed \"White Tulip\" as one of their favorite episodes.\n\nAs with other \"Fringe\" episodes, Fox and Science Olympiad released a lesson plan for grade school children based upon the science depicted in \"White Tulip\"; the lesson's intention was for \"students [to] learn about scientific concepts related to time such as astronomy and physics, with a focus on timekeeping.\"\n\n\"White Tulip\" was watched by an estimated 6.62 million viewers in the United States, with a 4.0/7 share among all households and a 2.5/7 share among those aged 18–49.\n\nReviews of \"White Tulip\" were overwhelmingly positive. Ken Tucker from \"Entertainment Weekly\" enjoyed the episode, writing \"Fringe is becoming ever more adroit at blending its mythology with its paranormal cases\". He also praised guest star Peter Weller's performance. After initially expecting a \"filler\" episode, Ramsey Isler of \"IGN\" said he was \"pleasantly proven wrong\", as the \"story turned out to be one of the best of the series\". Isler continued that \"the writers really did a good job of integrating the overall mythology into a standalone story that is actually damn good... It's brilliant storytelling\". Andrew Hanson of \"Los Angeles Times\" enjoyed the episode, but wished Astrid got more screen time.\n\nSteve Heisler of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the episode an \"A\", explaining \"Horror. Confusion. It's a moment that finds Fringe at its finest\". \"New York Magazine\"'s Tim Grierson loved all the interactions between Noble and Weller, and thought they were so \"compelling together that they helped justify an episode that could have very easily been terribly hokey — instead, it was one of the season’s best standalone stories\". Josh Wigler from MTV also thought the scenes between Noble and Weller were the best thing about the episode. Jane Boursaw of \"TV Squad\" wrote it was \"another great episode that served to propel the story forward, and another great performance by John Noble\". \"Television Without Pity\" gave the episode a \"B+\".\n\n\"The A.V. Club\" ranked \"Fringe\" the 15th best show of 2010, in particular highlighting \"White Tulip\", while Den of Geek listed it as the second best of the series. Jeff Jensen of \"Entertainment Weekly\" named \"White Tulip\" the best episode of the entire series, calling it \"a near-perfect blend of mythology and stand-alone episode. 'White Tulip' is \"Fringe\"s purest, finest example of fulsome emotions tempered by stringent ideas. The tulip of the title represents forgiveness — faith in love — and became within the series a semi-recurring symbol of fragile hope, and, to the show's audience, a cynosure of the devotion of \"Fringe\" fandom.\" IGN ranked it as the second best, explaining that \"despite a few technical flaws with special effects and a little under-utilization of Weller in the first half, the veteran cast delivers an excellent script with skill.\"\n\n\"White Tulip\" was referenced multiple times in the season three episode \"Subject 13\". Executive producer J. H. Wyman later commented in an interview that \"the 'White Tulip' stuff is all connected thematically because that was the episode where Walter believes in God,\" and further explained that these themes would return again in the season three finale. The final reference to the white tulip is in season five, the series finale, which aired January 18, 2013.\n\n\"White Tulip\" was nominated for Outstanding Sound Editing For A Series at the Creative Arts portion of the 62nd Primetime Emmy Awards, with the crew composed of Supervising Sound Editor Paul Curtis, Sound Editors Rick Norman and Bruce Tanis, Music Editor Paul Apelgren, and Foley Artists Shelley Roden and Rick Partlow. It lost to an episode of \"24\". \"White Tulip\" was also nominated for Outstanding Sound at the 2010 HPA Awards, but it lost to an episode of \"House\".\n\nAlso at the 62nd Primetime Emmy Awards, writers J.H. Wyman and Jeff Vlaming submitted \"White Tulip\" for consideration in the Outstanding Writing for a Drama Series category, but failed to garner a nomination. Peter Weller submitted the episode for consideration in the Outstanding Guest Actor in a Drama Series category. Weller and fellow guest actor Leonard Nimoy (who appeared in \"Over There\") were not chosen for nominations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813485", "title": "Yer-sub", "text": "Yer-sub\n\nYer-sub (Yar-Sub also Yer-Su or Yir-sub) are a category of nature spirits in the Turkic-Mongolian belief of Tengriism. The name means \"Earth–Water\" in Turkic languages.\n\nThe word Yer-Sub had two meanings. One was the name of natural spirits, the other the visible world, the Native Land.\n\nTengrist people believe that Yer-sub spirits exist in trees, lakes, mountains, stones, and sometimes in a whole empire, and that Yer-sub spirits are the forgotten souls of ancestors. They think that, if the name of an ancestor is not mentioned any more, that ancestor's soul will become object in the nature.\n\nTengrists are required to be careful and respectful towards nature, so as not to disturb the Yer-sub spirits. They also must be thankful to them, when they take something from nature.\n\nDemons and spirits served important functions in pre-industrial Turkic / Altaic societies and were considered to be very interactive in the lives and domains of humans. Some spirits were benevolent and could be helpful in human tasks, others were harmful and often destructive. These spirits were also considered to be derived from ancestors or certain deceased humans. Such spirits could appear at will in various forms including that of different animals or human form. Some of these spirits could also participate in malevolent activity to harm humans, such as drowning humans, obstructing the harvest, or sucking the blood of livestock and sometimes humans. Hence, the Turkic peoples were obliged to appease these spirits to prevent the spirits from their potential for erratic and destructive behaviour.\n\nYar-Sub or Yer-Su is mentioned together with Gök-Tengri in the Orkhon Inscriptions, under the name \"Yduk\" (Turkish: Iduk, Idık \"Sacred\") Yar-Sub (Earth-Water). One of the records states: \"Turkic Tengri and Turkic sacred Yer-Sub said in Heaven: \"Let not the Turkic people vanish! Let them be a Nation!\" The ancient Turkic people called the visible world occupied by their people Yar-Sub (Earth-Water) or Middle Earth, emphasising its central location.\n\nIn Turkic community, each boy (clan) and tribe had their territory, the boundaries of which outlined their world. This Yar-Sub (Land-Water or Earth-Aqua) was theirs, beyond which were others possessions. Their own limited Yer-Sub (Yer-Su) was not just a settled space but also a smaller version of the world. For each boy (clan), their land was the centre of the world and a focus of order and harmony. \"Native land\" was not only a geographical concept, but was also a space that could be emotionally perceived by man. It was the land of the Clan and of the Ata-Ana (Ancestors) and could never be sold or given away.\n\nThe dominant role in determining the fate of people and ulus (nations) belonged to Gök-Tengri, but natural forces yielded to Yar-Sub. Sometimes on Tengri's command, Yer-Sub punished people for their sins. But they are generally considered benevolent. To appease Yar-Sub, sacrifices were made every spring in preparation for the cattle-breeding season and before planting crops. With the disintegration of the ancient Turkic states, the rituals to Yer-Sub (Yer-Su) began to take on distinct local forms. As in ancient ages, they were conducted in the upper rivulets and on the shores of lakes. White rams were sacrificed and hung on a tree, under which a prayer was conducted. After the ritual, participants feasted and exchanged gifts.\n\n"}
{"id": "55922299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55922299", "title": "ʿAnāq (daughter of Adam)", "text": "ʿAnāq (daughter of Adam)\n\nʿAnāq bint Ādam (أناف بنت آدم) is, in some varieties of Islamic mythology, a daughter of Adam and Eve, sometimes even their first child. She is portrayed as evil.\n\nA summary of the diverse traditions about ʿAnāq is provided by Roberto Tottoli:\n\nAccording to some reports ʿAnāq was born alone, with no twin brother, or, in other reports, she was Cain's sister, and he, after killing Abel, brought her to Yemen, where he married her ... She was said to be the first one to commit fornication and to act badly on earth and because of this she was later killed. Some traditions add particulars about her monstrous appearance, such as that she had two heads, or twenty fingers with two nails each, or that she had long nails. It is also stated that she was the first person killed on earth, and that she was killed by ravaging beasts or by a gigantic lion sent by God. The name ʿAnāq is usually employed in connection with the story of her son ʿŪj, the giant who survived the Flood and was later killed by Moses.\n\nʿAnāq's name seems to correspond in some way to male giant Anak in Hebrew tradition, where he is portrayed as the father of Og (just as ʿAnāq is the mother of ʿŪj). However, her name can also be understood to mean ‘misfortune’ or ‘calamity’ or to evoke the word \"ʿināq\" (‘embrace’). However, the word also means 'caracal' (a kind of lynx) (more usually in the fuller form \"ʿanāq al-arḍ\").\n\nOne \"ḥadīth\" mentioning ʿAnāq, for example, is the following, included in \"al-Kāfī\" by Muḥammad ibn Yaʿqūb al-Kulaynī (864-941 CE), where Muḥammad attributes the material to ʿAlī, and translated by Amina Inloes.\n\nO people! Corruption (\"baghy\") leads its perpetrator to the Fire. The first to commit [the crime of] corruption against Allah was ʿAnāq, the daughter of Adam. She was the first person whom Allah killed, and she used to inhabit a place made of earth. She had twenty fingers; on each finger were two claws like two sickles. So Allah set upon her a vulture like a mule, and it overpowered her like a lion overpowers an elephant, or a wolf overpowers a camel. So We killed her, and thus Allah has killed the tyrants when they were in their best condition and secure in their positions.\n\nThe role of ʿAnāq in Islamicate traditions can be seen as similar to that of Lilith in Judaeo-Christian traditions, providing a monstrous female near the very beginning of human existence, through whom misogynistic ideology can be conveyed.\n\n"}
