{"id": "57700484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57700484", "title": "1906 WSPU march", "text": "1906 WSPU march\n\nThe 1906 WSPU march on 19 February 1906 was the first march held in London to demand the right to vote for women in the United Kingdom. Organized by Sylvia Pankhurst and Annie Kenney of the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU), the event saw around 300–400 women march through central London to the House of Commons. It was held to coincide with the King's Speech and the opening of Parliament. \n\nTwo hundred women from Bow, Bromley, Canning Town and Poplar in the East End marched to Caxton Hall, near the Commons, from St. James's Park tube station. There, Emmeline Pankhurst heard there was no mention of votes for women in the King's Speech and led the women on another march to the Commons Strangers' Entrance. Over the following two hours, the women were allowed to enter in groups of 20 to lobby their MPs. The \"Daily Mirror\" reported the event on page 5: \"Voteless Women. 3,000 [sic] Demonstrators March Behind a Red Banner. Smiling but Earnest.\"\n\nEmmeline Pankhurst saw the march as the beginning of a militant women's suffrage movement. The women \"were awake at last\", she wrote. \"They were prepared to do something that women had never done before—fight for themselves. Women had always fought for men, and for their children. Now they were ready to fight for their own human rights. Our militant movement was established.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18452079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18452079", "title": "2007–11 Belgian political crisis", "text": "2007–11 Belgian political crisis\n\nThe 2007–2011 Belgian political crisis was a period of tense communal relations and political instability in Belgium rooted in the differing opinions on state reform, and in the continued existence of the controversial electoral district of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde (BHV). Parties from the Dutch-speaking Flemish Community are in general strongly in favour for a devolution of powers to the communities and regions, and the splitting of the unconstitutional BHV district, while French-speaking French Community of Belgium is generally in favour of retaining the status quo. After the 2010 elections, the topics of public debt, deficit cuts and socio-economic reform were added to the debate, with most Flemish parties in favour of finding money by strongly reducing spending, whilst the proposals supported by most French-speaking parties also included a significant raise in taxes. The crisis came to an end in December 2011 with the inauguration of a new federal government which agreed on partition of the BHV district and on policies aimed at tackling the economic downturn. The country's continuing linguistic divide played a large part in the crisis. Several times during the period Belgium was threatened to be split up amid rising Flemish separatism.\n\nThe crisis broke out in the summer of 2007, following the electoral victory of the alliance of the Flemish Christian Democrats and the New Flemish Alliance, who supported a wide-reaching state reform and the immediate split of BHV. After 194 days of often heated negotiations, parties finally succeeded in forming a new government. In December 2008, another crisis related to the Fortis case, erupted, again destabilising the country and resulting in the resignation of Belgian Prime Minister Yves Leterme. The new Herman Van Rompuy-led government brought a brief period of fragile stability, but ended when Van Rompuy left his office to become the first full-term President of the European Council. The succeeding Leterme II Government fell in April 2010 over the lack of progress on resolving the BHV issue.\n\nNew elections were held in June 2010, where the separatist and conservative New Flemish Alliance won a landslide victory in Flanders, while the pro-unity Socialist Party won the elections in French-speaking Belgium. Due to the major differences between the two winning parties on a community and social-economic level, government negotiations and formation took a total of 541 days, breaking the world government formation record of 249 days, previously set by Iraq in 2010 as well as the ten months record set by Lebanon in 2014. On 13 September 2011 it was reported that Leterme aims to take up a new job as deputy secretary general of the OECD in 2012, although that it seemed to be unlikely at that time that he'd leave the post as the head of the caretaker government before the end of the year. However, a new government was sworn in on 6 December 2011 with Elio Di Rupo as Prime Minister.\n\nOf the Flemish parties, the alliance of Christian Democratic and Flemish (CD&V) and the New-Flemish Alliance (N-VA) received an increased share of the vote from the previous election, held in 2003. The CD&V/N-VA list was headed by Yves Leterme, and became the largest political formation in Belgium, thus leading the coalition talks for a new government. The list campaigned heavily on the need for a far-reaching reform of the Belgian state.\n\nIn French-speaking Belgium, the liberal Reformist Movement managed to defeat the long-dominant Socialist Party (PS), although the PS remained strong.\n\nAfter the election, a Christian democratic and liberal coalition was proposed. Because of the differing views on the need for a state reform on both sides of the language border, it took the parties 196 days, i.e. over 6 months, following the election, to form an interim government. That set a record as the longest Belgian government formation, one that has since been broken by the 2010 formation.\n\nOn 17 December 2007, incumbent Prime Minister of Belgium Guy Verhofstadt was asked by the King of the Belgians Albert II to start the formation of an interim government that would last until 23 March 2008, when Leterme would take over. Belgium's political uncertainty intensified when Yves Leterme was hospitalised on February 2008. He remained in the hospital for several days but it was soon made clear that his health would not prevent him from assuming premiership.\n\nA first preliminary deal was reached on 25 February 2008. It was agreed that some powers over industrial policy and housing would be transferred from the federal government to the regions. Measures would also be taken to strengthen inter-region cooperation; a second package of devolution changes would then be passed before the summer recess.\n\nAn official coalition agreement was signed on 18 March 2008. Yves Leterme was sworn in on 20 March 2008. In the late hours of 14 July 2008, after months of negotiations regarding the constitutional reform and electoral arrondissement Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde failed and with the deadline of 15 July 2008 within reach, Leterme offered the resignation of his cabinet to King Albert II. After a series of consultations, King Albert II decided to reject Prime Minister Leterme's resignation on 17 July. The royal palace said that the King had asked two senior French-speaking politicians, Ministers of State François-Xavier de Donnea (MR) and Raymond Langendries (CdH), and the Minister-President of the German-speaking Community, Karl-Heinz Lambertz (SP), to establish how to start talks about institutional reform. They reported back to the King on 19 September 2008 with a one-page report so that neither of the communities would back out of the negotiations. Only a few hours later, Didier Reynders angered the Dutch-speaking politicians with controversial statements and so sparked a crisis within the Flemish government. On 21 September 2008, the N-VA withdrew its parliamentary support for the federal government, saying that the 15-month-long negotiations had failed to result in state reform. The withdrawal of support plunged the country into another crisis. Under pressure of the socialist and liberal coalition partners, the only N-VA minister in the Flemish government (Geert Bourgeois) resigned his post.\n\nOn 19 December 2008, Leterme again offered the resignation of the government to the king, who accepted the offer on 22 December. The resignation was offered after news broke out that the government had tried to intervene in the verdict of the Fortis case.\n\nAfter the resignation of Leterme and his cabinet, the King consulted various dignitaries and party leaders. He then appointed Wilfried Martens, a former prime minister and president of the European People's Party, to consult the various political parties and pave the way to a new \"emergency\" cabinet. The general consensus is that a government should run until the regional and European Parliament elections in June 2009 or, if possible, until the next federal election in 2011. On 28 December, King Albert II gave Herman Van Rompuy the task of forming a new government, which would include the current ruling parties. Van Rompuy and his government were sworn in on 30 December 2008.\n\nOn 24 April 2010, the government of Yves Leterme (who had replaced Van Rompuy again when Van Rompuy became President of the European Council) fell over the Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde issue.\n\nAn early election was held on 13 June 2010, resulting in the New Flemish Alliance (N-VA) winning most votes in the Flemish-speaking areas and the Socialist Party (PS) in French-speaking Belgium. Nationally the two parties were almost even with 27 seats for the N-VA and 26 for the PS, the remaining seats being split between ten other parties. Until 541 days after the elections, no agreement could be reached among the parties on a coalition to form a new government and during that period the country continued to be governed by an interim government. On 6 December 2011 the Di Rupo I Government was sworn in.\n\nThe various political parties had not succeeded in forming a new government for 541 days, which broke the 2007 record of the longest period without a government. During that period several people had made failed attempts to create an agreement, until Elio Di Rupo finally succeeded (in chronological order and all appointed by the King):\n\nTowards the end of July 2011, as government formation had been dragging on for over a year, party leaders of the separatist Walloon Rally (which does not have any seats in parliament) have had talks with the Union for a Popular Movement party of French President Nicolas Sarkozy and the French Socialists. These talks resulted in that, in the event of the split with Flanders, Wallonia could become the 28th region of France. A poll of the French daily newspaper Le Figaro suggests that around half of Walloons and around 66% of French Republic citizens favour this plan. Most Walloon parties have not been campaigning to become part of the French Republic as a solution to the political crisis but state that this would be the best outcome in the event of the partition of Belgium, with the exception of the Walloon Rally who have been campaigning for partition and accession to the French Republic since 1968.\n\nThe Belgian minister for Climate and Energy, Paul Magnette, also suggested to incorporate Wallonia into Germany instead of France if the crisis in Belgium were to escalate. Although over 71,000 people on the Walloon-German border speak German as their first language, the vast majority of Walloons are French speakers. Thus arises the possibility that, if Wallonia had become part of France, the German-speaking towns might have been absorbed by Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "17972417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17972417", "title": "Alternative break", "text": "Alternative break\n\nAn alternative break is a trip where a group of college students (usually 10–12 per trip) engage in volunteer service, typically for a week. Alternative break trips originated with college students in the early 1980s as a counter to \"traditional\" spring break trips. These trips are usually led by 2 \"site leaders\" who are students that have already participated in an alternative break and have gone through extensive leadership training.\n\nAlternative breaks may occur during students’ fall, winter, weekend, or summer school breaks. Each trip has a focus on a particular social issue, such as poverty, education reform, refugee resettlement, the environment, healthcare reform, mental health, immigration, animal care, and much more. Students learn about the social issues and then perform week-long projects with local non-profit organizations. Thus, students have the opportunity to connect and collaborate with different community partners. Alternative breaks are also drug and alcohol-free experiences, with a heavy emphasis on group and individual reflection.\n\nOn the site, students provide necessary services and explore the culture and the history of the area. Students who participate in this program cultivate social responsibility, leadership, and lifelong learning; thereby fostering a generation of leaders committed to positive social change. Alternative breaks challenge students to critically think and react to problems faced by members of the communities they are involved with. Being immersed in diverse environments enables participants to experience, discuss, and understand social issues in a significant way.\n\nThe intensity of the experience increases the likelihood that participants will transfer their experience on-site back to their own communities even after the alternative break ends.\n\nThe aim of the experience is to contribute volunteer hours to communities in need and to positively influence the life of the alternative breaker. Breakers are emboldened to take educated steps toward valuing and prioritizing their own communities in life choices such as recycling, donating resources, voting, etc.\n\nMany breakers have returned to their college campuses to create a campus organization related to the social issue, have a deeper understanding and commitment to an academic path, execute a fundraiser for the non-profit organization they worked with, organize a letter writing campaign to members of Congress, volunteer in their local community, or commit to an internship or career within the non-profit sector.\n\nIn 1991, Michael Magevney and Laura Mann, two recent graduates who had been very involved in building a successful alternative break program at Vanderbilt University, gained the support of then-Chancellor Joe B. Wyatt and founded a national nonprofit organization called Break Away: The Alternative Break Connection. Their purpose was to gather the resources and best practices for the alternative spring break programs that had been established on multiple campuses across the U.S. Break Away began as a modest resource center for alternative breaks and continues to be the national organization dedicated to developing lifelong active citizenship through quality alternative break programs. Break Away's development and national growth was supported and facilitated by leveraging the national network of campus service programs built by the Campus Outreach Opportunity League. COOL's National Conference provided a great platform to engage college students interested or involved in alternative breaks from all over the nation.\n\nStudent-led initiatives, now known as alternative breaks, became more prevalent on college campuses in the 1980s and early 1990s \"as part of an overall surge of interest in institutionalizing community service on college campuses\". Rather than travel to a traditional spring break location, groups of students came together to form a new community that was immersed in education on social issues, service work, and reflection.\n\nFor the last two decades, there has been a consistent increase in the number of colleges and universities with alternative break programs. This growth accelerated in the mid-2000s, and has been attributed to two factors: 1) the institutionalization of volunteer service as an integral part of the college experience, 2) the overwhelming interest in service work along the Gulf Coast in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.\n\n• Becoming active citizens <www.alternativebreaks.org> \n• Interest in specific social issues addressed by trips\n• Further involvement in student body\n• Previous service experience\n• Lack of service experience\n• Word-of-mouth\n• Interest in new experiences\n• Desire to meet new people within university and external communities\n• Leadership opportunities (alternative breaks are overwhelmingly student-led)\n• College credit through curriculum-based alternative breaks\n• Less expensive than \"traditional\" spring breaks\n• Desire for experiences that will inform future career path\n• Resume building\n\n\"Strong Direct Service:\" Should provide an opportunity for participants to engage in direct or “hands on” projects and activities that address unmet social needs, as determined by the community.\n\n\"Orientation:\" Alternative breakers learn about the purposes and goals of their community partners with which they will be working.\n\n\"Education:\" Breakers learn about the complexity of the social issue through reading materials, speaker panels, documentaries, and guest lecturers related to current trends and historical context. A strong educational foundation for the trip will contribute to a meaningful service experience.\n\n\"Training:\" Breakers are provided with adequate skills necessary to carry out service projects during their trip. This may include learning physical skills, such as construction or maintenance skills, as well as interpersonal communication, such as interacting with children, sensitivity training, working with people with disabilities, trail building, etc.\n\n\"Reflection:\" During the trip participants process the service work as it connects to the broader social issue. Groups set aside time for reflection to take place individually and as a group. During reflection, site leaders and students discuss critical questions related to the service, themselves, and the world.\n\n\"Reorientation:\" After students return to campus, reorientation activities allow participants to talk about issues with others on campus, learn about local volunteer and civic involvement opportunities, and brainstorm other means to benefit their local community. Reorientation (the post-trip application of the experience) is the essential purpose of an alternative break – to provide a platform for participants to work towards lifelong active citizenship.\n\n\"Diversity and Social Justice:\" Strong alternative break programs include: 1) diverse representation of students from the campus community and 2) studying the social issue by examining the social justice concepts of power, privilege, and oppression.\n\n\"The trouble around diversity, then, isn't just that people differ from one another. The trouble is produced by a world organized in ways that encourage people to use difference to include or exclude, reward or punish, credit or discredit, elevate or oppress, value or devalue, leave alone or harass.\" (Privilege, Power, and Difference, 2001, Allan G. Johnson)\n\n\"Alcohol & Drug Free:\" Alternative breaks are alcohol- and drug-free. Awareness of legality, liability, personal safety, and group cohesion addressed through training prior to the trip.\n\n“Voluntourism\" is the integrated combination of voluntary service to a destination with the traditional elements of travel and tourism – arts, culture, geography, history, and recreation – while in the destination. (cite – voluntourism.org) Volunteer vacations are not alternative breaks because participants arrive as individuals with no prior preparation with educational components or group building.\n\nAlternative breaks typically involve college students from the same institution, while most groups going on volunteer vacations will meet for the first time when they arrive at the location of the trip.\n\nAlternative break groups meet and prepare for their experience up to six months in advance of their departure. During this preparation period, there is an emphasis on learning about the social issues addressed during the trip, learning about the community, becoming oriented with the mission and values of the organization, training for any skills they may need while on the trip, and team building. Some groups even do relevant service in their college communities prior to departure.\n\nMany students who return from an alternative break experience consider it a life changing event. Alternative break alumni have reported changing their major, increasing their campus involvement, committing to continued community service, actively staying updated on social issues, and joining a service program post-graduation such as AmeriCorps, Peace Corps, or Teach for America. Many return to participate and lead alternative break programs throughout their time as students.\n\nAn impact analysis conducted in 2001 by Dr. Pushkala Raman and her Marketing Research Class at Florida State University in conjunction with Break Away revealed that there is overwhelming evidence to support the view that alternative breaks are \"indeed contributing to the creating of active citizens.\" Some highlights of the study include the following:\n\n• Participants show stronger intentions of voting after participation\n• Research indicates that alternative break participants are inclined to increase the amount of time they dedicate to serving the community after an alternative break experience.\n\nIn 2002, Dr. Raman conducted another study measuring the satisfaction of nonprofit organizations that utilize alternative breakers. Her work produced the following insights:\n\n• 100% of nonprofit organizations that responded and had hosted break groups agreed or strongly agreed that they benefited from the work done by alternative breakers.\n• 100% of the same nonprofit organizations were interested in hosting alternative break groups again in the future.\n\nBreak Away: The Alternative Break Connection’s Web Site\nPrivilege, Power, and Difference, 2001, Allen G. Johnson\n\n"}
{"id": "57662243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57662243", "title": "Artz Pedregal", "text": "Artz Pedregal\n\nArtz Pedregal is a mixed-use development opened on March 9, 2018 and is located along the Anillo Periférico ring road in the Pedregal de San Ángel area of southwestern Mexico City. The shopping mall focuses on luxury retailers. The project is in area of which of office space, of commercial space and of park space, on a lot of . It features a gallery of large-scale installations of public art, and was designed by Sordo Madaleno Arquitectos. Tenants include luxury retailers Louis Vuitton, Dior, Hermes, Gucci, Prada, Fendi, and Cartier, as well as Hamley's toys, Roche Bobois West Elm, Cinemex multicinemas, and Mexico's first Starbucks Reserve Bar. No major department stores anchor the mall.\nOn July 12, 2018, a constituent building of the mall collapsed.\n\nPublic art featured includes \"Forever\" by Ai Weiwei, \"De la rotonda a la fuente. 5 colores para México, trabajo in situ. México 2018. Homenaje al Arquitecto Manuel Tolsá\" (\"From the roundabout to the fountain. 5 colors for Mexico, in situ work. Mexico City 2018. Memorial to architect Manuel Tolsá\") by Daniel Buren, and \"Quisco sonoro\" by Tania Candiani.\n"}
{"id": "18218120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18218120", "title": "Australian National Centre for the Public Awareness of Science", "text": "Australian National Centre for the Public Awareness of Science\n\nThe Centre for the Public Awareness of Science is part of the Australian National University. In March 2000 it became an accredited Centre for the Australian National Commission for UNESCO.\n\nAs a UNESCO Centre, CPAS engages with science communication and communicators in the Pacific region and beyond. In partnership with the UNESCO Pacific Office in Apia, Samoa, CPAS has focused on science teaching training and communication in Pacific nations. As well as running a science journalism workshop for Pacific Island journalists in 2001, CPAS followed up in the same year with a science teacher workshop and the first Pacific Science Communication Forum. The UNESCO office in Jakarta invited CPAS to join a mission to Cambodia to conduct a survey to identify and assess the needs of the country with respect to science education in schools and universities. Other activities include joining with UNESCO (Apia) to help in its aims to raise social participation in science in and around the Pacific.\n\nCPAS also established, as a pilot project, the Register of Pacific Scientists, an online database for those involved with Pacific Science to record their details and/or search for other people with similar or complementary interests. \n\nOther activities of CPAS include the presentation of workshops for secondary school science teachers and others in Fiji, India, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Japan and New Zealand. A joint teaching program is being developed with the National University of Singapore. In South Africa, CPAS helped to develop a touring hands-on science exhibition and has been invited to work in and with various South African science centres.\n\nWith a flourishing graduate program, CPAS encourages research in all aspects of science communication. Degrees are offered at all tertiary levels. Outreach programs within Australia include workshops for research scientists, science teachers, science and engineering students and science centre personnel, as well as the ANU Shell Questacon Science Circus. \n\nCPAS has a wide research program dealing with issues at the interface of science and the public. Apart from a long-standing agenda of research in science centres, CPAS is concerned with current issues in science, with the communication agendas of scientists, and with effective communication of science concepts. The research program is interdisciplinary and contributes to the emerging framework of science communication theory.\n\nCPAS was launched by Professor Richard Dawkins in 1996. It owes it origin to the establishment, twenty years earlier, of a modest science centre in a vacant primary school in Canberra. This burgeoning science centre eventually grew into Questacon – The National Science and Technology Centre. Questacon was the brainchild of Michael Gore, a senior lecturer in Physics at the Australian National University, who became its first director. An important part of its activities was outreach, supported from the beginning by sponsorship from Shell Australia.\n\nDr Gore approached Professor Chris Bryant, then Dean of Science at the Australian National University, with a proposal to set up a science circus to travel Australia, to be staffed by graduate science students enrolled in a course of science communication. Thus was born the Graduate Certificate in Science Communication that rapidly metamorphosed into a Graduate Diploma. This initiative proved extremely popular and it became clear that there was a hitherto undetected demand for such a course. Over the next few years, Masters and PhD courses were offered and science communication became a full-fledged graduate program.\n\nBy 1994, the demand was so great that the Faculty of Science at the Australian National University agreed to fund a Lectureship in Science Communication. This was the first in Australia and, possibly, the world. Dr Susan Stocklmayer was appointed to the position and immediately announced her intention of establishing a university centre for science communication. The Centre was established in 1996, with Professor Bryant as its first, interim, Director. Dr Stocklmayer took over the position in 1998, where she remains today.\n\nIn subsequent years, the work of CPAS has been recognised by a number of awards and honours: In 1999, CPAS, Shell Australia and Questacon jointly won the Business/Higher Education Round Table Award. The citation commends CPAS as “a university centre whose brief is to empower Australians by encouraging in them the confidence of 'ownership' of modern science. It is intended to increase science awareness in the Australian community and to improve communication skills of scientists.” In 2000, its standing was such that it was designated as the first UNESCO Centre for Science Communication.\n\nIn 2004, the triple partnership was awarded the Financial Review National Award for long term sponsorship, and in 2006 it won the Special Award for Excellence in the Prime Ministers Community Business Partnerships. The individual contributions of members of CPAS have also been widely recognised and they have received many personal accolades.\n\n"}
{"id": "151735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151735", "title": "Aztec calendar", "text": "Aztec calendar\n\nThe Aztec or Mexica calendar is the calendar system that was used by the Aztecs as well as other Pre-Columbian peoples of central Mexico. It is one of the Mesoamerican calendars, sharing the basic structure of calendars from throughout ancient Mesoamerica.\n\nThe calendar consisted of a 365-day calendar cycle called (year count) and a 260-day ritual cycle called (day count). These two cycles together formed a 52-year \"century,\" sometimes called the \"calendar round\". The is considered to be the agricultural calendar, since it is based on the sun, and the is considered to be the sacred calendar.\n\nThe (\"day count\") consists of a cycle of 260 days, each day signified by a combination of a number from 1 to 13, and one of the twenty day signs. With each new day, both the number and day sign would be incremented: 1 Crocodile is followed by 2 Wind, 3 House, 4 Lizard, and so forth up to 13 Reed, after which the cycle of numbers would restart (though the twenty day signs had not yet been exhausted) resulting in 1 Jaguar, 2 Eagle, and so on, as the days immediately following 13 Reed. This cycle of number and day signs would continue similarly until the 20th week, which would start on 1 Rabbit, and end on 13 Flower. It would take a full 260 days (13×20) for the two cycles (of twenty day signs, and thirteen numbers) to realign and repeat the sequence back on 1 Crocodile.\n\nThe set of day signs used in central Mexico is identical to that used by Mixtecs, and to a lesser degree similar to those of other Mesoamerican calendars. Each of the day signs also bears an association with one of the four cardinal directions.\n\nThere is some variation in the way the day signs were drawn or carved. Those here were taken from the .\nWind and Rain are represented by images of their associated gods, and respectively.\n\nOther marks on the stone showed the current world and also the worlds before this one. Each world was called a sun, and each sun had its own species of inhabitants. The Aztecs believed that they were in the Fifth Sun and like all of the suns before them they would also eventually perish due to their own imperfections. Every 52 years was marked out because they believed that 52 years was a life cycle and at the end of any given life cycle the gods could take away all that they have and destroy the world.\nThe 260 days of the sacred calendar were grouped into twenty periods of 13 days each. Scholars usually refer to these thirteen-day \"weeks\" as , using a Spanish term derived from \"thirteen\" (just as the Spanish term \"dozen\" is derived from \"twelve\"). The original Nahuatl term is not known.\n\nEach is named according to the calendar date of the first day of the 13 days in that . In addition, each of the twenty in the 260-day cycle had its own tutelary deity:\n\nEach 20-day period started on (Crocodile) for which a festival was held. The eighteen are listed below. The dates are from early eyewitnesses; each wrote what they saw. 's date precedes the observations of by several decades and is believed to be more recent to the surrender. Both are shown to emphasize the fact that the beginning of the Native new year became non-uniform as a result of an absence of the unifying force of after the Mexica defeat.\n\nThe ancient Mexicans counted their years by means of four signs combined with thirteen numbers, obtaining periods of 52 years, which are commonly known as \"Xiuhmolpilli\", a popular but incorrect name; the correct Nahuatl word for this cycle is Xiuhnelpilli. We can see below the table with the current years:\nFor many centuries scholars had tried to reconstruct the Calendar. The latest and more accepted version was proposed by Professor of the , based on the studies of and of the National Autonomous University of Mexico. His correlation confirms that the first day of the Mexica year was February 13 of the old Julian calendar or February 23 of the current Gregorian calendar.\nUsing the same count, it has been verified the date of the birth of , the end of the year and a cycle or \"Tie of the Years,\" and the New Fire Ceremony, day-sign of the year , corresponding to the date February 22.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2708118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2708118", "title": "Chhetri", "text": "Chhetri\n\nChhetri (Kshetri, Kshettri, Kshetry or Chhettri), (; IAST: \"Kṣetrī\") historically called Kshettriya or Kshetriya, are Nepali speakers of Khas community. Chhetri was a caste of administrators, governor and military elites in medieval Khas Kingdom and Gorkha Kingdom (later unified Kingdom of Nepal). The nobility of Gorkha Kingdom were mainly based from Chhetri families and they had a strong presence in civil administration affairs. The bulk of Prime Ministers of Nepal before democratization of Nepal belonged to this caste as a result of old Gorkhali aristocracy. Gorkha-based aristocratic Chhetri families were Pande dynasty, Basnyat dynasty, Thapa dynasty and Kunwars (Rana dynasty & other Kunwars).\n\nKhas Chhetris (referred as Khas Rajputs) were traditionally considered a division of the Khas people with Khas Brahmin (commonly called Khas Bahun). They make up 16.6% of Nepal's population according to the 2011 Nepal census, making them the most populous caste or ethnic community in Nepal. Chhetris speak an Indo-Aryan Nepali language (\"Khas-Kura\") as mother tongue. \nChhetri is considered a direct derivative of the Sanskrit word \"Kshatriya\". According to the 1854 Legal Code (\"Muluki Ain\") of Nepal, Chhetris are the social group among the sacred thread bearers (\"Tagadhari\") and \"twice-born people\" of the Hindu tradition. Almost all Chhetris are Hindu. \n\nThey are thought to be connected to the Khasas mentioned in the ancient Indian literature and the medieval Khasa kingdom.\n\nIn the early modern history of Nepal, Chhetris played a key role in the Unification of Nepal, providing the core of the Gorkhali army of the mid-18th century. Bir Bhadra Thapa was a Thapa of Chhetri group and leading Bharadar during Unification of Nepal. His grandson Bhimsen Thapa became Mukhtiyar (Prime Minister) of Nepal. Swarup Singh Karki, a leading politician and military officer, belonged to Chhetri family. Abhiman Singh Basnyat of Basnyat dynasty and Damodar Pande of Pande dynasty were both members of Chhetri caste. Jung Bahadur Rana, founder of Rana dynasty also belonged to the Chhetri community.\nDuring the monarchy, Chhetris continued to dominate the ranks of the Nepalese government, Nepalese Army, Nepalese Police and administration.\n\nThe most prominent feature of Nepalese Chhetri society has been the ruling Shah dynasty (1768–2008), the Rana Prime Ministers (1846–1953), Pande family, Thapa family, Basnyat family. that marginalized the monarchy, and the Chhetri presence in the armed forces, police, and Government of Nepal. In traditional and administrative professions, Chhetris were given favorable treatment by the royal government.\n\nThe nobility of Gorkha were mainly from Chhetri families and they had a strong presence in civil administration affairs. All of the Prime Minister of Nepal between 1768 to 1950 were Chhetris with the exception of Ranga Nath Poudyal, being a Brahmin. These number varied after the democratization of Nepal. Between 1951 to 1997, out of the 16 Prime Ministers of Nepal, 5 of them were Chhetris.\n\nChhetri had dominated high military positions and monopolized the military force at the times of Chhetri autocratic administrators like PM Bhimsen Thapa and PM Jung Bahadur Rana. There were 12 Basnyats, 16 Pandes, 6 Thapas and 3 Kunwar officers totalling to 51 Chhetri officers in the year 1841  A.D. The most prominent officers at Shah administration were the Kazis which had control over civil and military functions like a Minister and Military officer combined. Rana Jang Pande, the leader of Pande faction, was the Prime Minister of Nepal in 1841  A.D. which might have caused large Pande officers at 1841. After the rise Rana dynasty(Kunwars), the number changed to 10 Basnyats, 1 Pandes, 3 Thapas and 26 Kunwar officers totaling to 61 Chhetri officers in the year 1854  A.D.\n\nChhetris dominated the position of the senior officers of the Nepali Army comprising 74.4% of total senior officers in 1967. Similarly, Chhetris composed of 38.1%, 54.3% and 55.3% of the senior officers in the year 2003, 2004 and 2007 respectively.\nClans of the Chhetri include:\n\nThe 2011 Nepal census recorded Chhetris as the largest Hindu adherents in the nation with 43,65,113 people which is 99.3% of total Chhetri population. Those Chhetri who follow Hinduism may also follow Buddhism. The ancient religion of the Chhetri is Masto which uses nature worship and can still be seen in western Nepal's Karnali district and in India's Gorkhaland. In Nepal's hill districts the Chhetri population rises to 41% compared to 31% Brahmin and 27% other castes. This greatly exceeds the Kshatriya portion in most regions with predominantly Hindu populations.\n\nChhetris are largest caste group in 21 districts of Nepal as per 2001 Nepal census and 24 districts as per 2011 Nepal census. These twenty four districts are - Dhankuta district, Sankhuwasabha district, Okhaldhunga district, Udayapur district, Ramechhap district, Dolakha District, Salyan district, Surkhet district, Dailekh district, Jajarkot district, Dolpa district, Jumla district, Mugu district, Humla district, Bajura district, Bajhang district, Achham district, Doti district, Kailali district, Dadeldhura district, Baitadi district, Darchula district, Kalikot district and Kanchanpur district. Among them, the district with largest Chhetri population is Kathmandu district with 347,754 (i.e. 19.9% of the total district population). The literacy rate among Chhetris is 72.3% as per 2011 Nepal census. \n\nAs per the Public Service Commission of Nepal, Brahmins (33.3%) and Chhetris (20.01%) were two largest caste group to obtain governmental jobs in the fiscal year 2017-18 even though 45% governmental seats are reserved for women, indigenous groups, Madhesis, Dalits, people with disability and those from the backward regions.\n\nChhetri together with Bahun and thakuri falls under Khas Arya, who are denied quota and reservations in civil services and other sectors due to their history of socio-political dominance in Nepal. There are no quotas for the Khas community who fall under \"Bahun-Chhetri-thakuri\" hierarchy. As per the explanation of legal provisions of Constitution of Nepal, Khas Arya comprises the Brahmin, Kshetri, Thakur and Sanyasi (Dashnami) communities. But they are allowed reservation in federal parliament and provincial legislature. The European Union has been accused of direct interference, creating ethnic strife and negative discrimination towards \"Khas Arya\" due to their recommendation to remove the reservation for Khas Aryas.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35201757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35201757", "title": "Corobicí language", "text": "Corobicí language\n\nCorobicí is an extinct Chibchan lect of Costa Rica. Many authors consider it a dialect of Guatuso; others consider it (or at least the words which are claimed to be recorded in it) as Rama. \n\nMason considered it a variety of the Guatuso language in a \"Rama-Corobici\" subfamily of Chibchan. The 1950 \"Handbook of South American Indians\" agreed that Corobici was Guatuso, but not with the subfamily classification, saying \"Guatuso, with its variety Corobici or Corbesi, and Rama with its dialect Melchora, are obviously very different from each other and from other Central American Chibchan languages, and Mason (1940) was evidently in error in making a Rama-Corobici subfamily.\" Voegelin and Voegelin also consider it a variety of Guatuso. Tozzer considers the Guatuso descendants of the Corobici, whereas Samuel Kirkland Lothrop writes that \"It is generally assumed that the Rama were once a tribe identical in language and speech with the Corobici.\" Constenla writes that the extant \"small sample of\" Corobici is actually \"words from the dialect of Rama that was spoken in the region of Upala, Costa Rica, up to the 1920s. Really, not a single word of the language of the Corobicies (an extinct group) was recorded.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37403422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37403422", "title": "Craig Smith (musician)", "text": "Craig Smith (musician)\n\nCraig Vincent Smith (April 25, 1945 – March 16, 2012) was an American musician, songwriter and actor. He began his career in the 1960s playing pop and folk music and appearing on \"The Andy Williams Show\". After experimenting with drugs while travelling on the hippie trail, he suffered mental health problems which worsened over time. He released two solo albums, \"Apache\" and \"Inca\", in the early 1970s under the names Maitreya Kali and Satya Sai Maitreya Kali. After spending nearly three years in prison for assaulting his mother, he spent the majority of the next 35 years homeless.\n\nSmith was born in Los Angeles, the son of Charles \"Chuck\" Smith and Marguerite \"Carole\" Smith (née Lundquist). His father was a descendant of gospel songwriter Charles H. Gabriel. His mother was of Swedish and German descent. Smith had two older brothers and one younger sister. Chuck Smith had worked as a manager at the Jade Room, a nightclub owned by Larry Potter, and was known by the stage name Chuck Barclay. After World War Two he worked as a welder and a salesman. Chuck died in 1978, aged 64, from a stroke, and Carole died in 1998, aged 82, from pulmonary disease.\n\nSmith attended Grant High School, becoming class president and being on the school gymnastics team. He graduated in June 1963, and turned down a number of offers from colleges in order to pursue a career in the entertainment industry.\n\nIn August 1963 Smith was recruited by Michael Storm and Tom Drake (who had performed together as the Other Singers) to join the Good Time Singers, a band formed to replace the New Christy Minstrels on \"The Andy Williams Show\". From December 1963 to January 1964 Smith and Storm also performed shows with Gordon and Sheila MacRae, supported by their daughters Heather and Meredith. The Good Time Singers released their debut self-titled album in January 1964, and their second album \"One Step More\" in October 1964. In between the albums they had embarked on a 17-city tour. Around this time Smith began songwriting, and he wrote a song called \"Christmas Holiday\", which was recorded by Andy Williams for his 1965 album \"Merry Christmas\". As the Good Times Singers' was ending, Smith and fellow bandmember Lee Montgomery intended to form a new duo called Craig & Lee, but Smith had to pull out after successfully auditioning for a new ABC television show, called \"The Happeners\". Smith had previously unsuccessfully auditioned for \"The Monkees\". The pilot for \"The Happeners\" was filmed in November 1965. The Good Times Singers' contract for \"The Andy Williams Show\" was not renewed past 1966.\n\nAfter a successful audition process, Smith won the role of Alan Howard on \"The Happeners\". The show was to be directed by David Greene, and was a mix of acting and singing, set in New York and based on the fictional eponymous folk trio. However, ABC declined to pick up the show following the pilot episode. Smith and his \"The Happeners\" co-star Chris Ducey decided to form a musical duo called Chris & Craig. They moved into an apartment together and began writing songs. They signed to Capitol Records, recording a number of demos throughout the summer of 1966. Their first single, \"Isha\", was written by Ducey and released in July 1966. Originally an acoustic duo, during their later 1966 sessions they began experimenting with a full band, and in November 1966 they played a show supporting the Mothers of Invention with such a full band, with Smith and Ducey playing electric guitars. Throughout late 1966 and early 1967 the duo continued to write and record more songs, but they were never released by the label. In 1967 Smith befriended Gábor Szabó and the Beach Boys, unsuccessfully offering to write songs for the latter. In early 1967 Chris & Craig began playing with a permanent backing band. Through their friendship with Michael Nesmith of the Monkees, they hired Jerry Perenchio as their manager. They changed their name to the Penny Arcade, shortly becoming the Penny Arkade for trademark reasons.\n\nNesmith began producing Smith and Ducey, initially pairing them with John London (bass) and Johnny Raines (drums). They were eventually replaced by Donald F. Glut on bass (who had appeared in an earlier incarnation of the band) and Bobby Donaho on drums. While the band worked on their own material, Smith continued to write songs, including \"Salesman\" for the Monkees, and \"Hands of the Clock\" and \"Lazy Sunny Day\" for Heather MacRae. Smith was also credited as co-producer for the songs, alongside Bob Thiele. He also wrote \"Holly\" for Williams. Nesmith took the band into a studio to record their album. One of the songs written at this time by Smith was \"Country Girl\", which was later recorded and released by Glen Campbell for his \"Try a Little Kindness\" album. The album never materialised, but some of the songs were collected and released as \"Not the Freeze\" in 2004. After a bad review of one of their live shows, the band decided to concentrate on writing and recording songs. In early 1968 they unsuccessfully auditioned for the role of house band on the TV show \"Peyton Place\". In February 1968 Smith and his father went into business together, running a bar called the Buckeye Inn. In late 1968 Smith was associating with the Manson Family, and exploring an interest in Eastern philosophy, particularly Transcendental Meditation. Smith eventually left the Penny Arkade and decided to go travelling. The band continued without Smith until 1969, renamed as the Armadillo and with Bob Arthur as a replacement guitarist.\n\nAfter previously smoking small amounts of marijuana with friends, Smith began experimenting with LSD in 1968. During his travels Smith took LSD on a \"regular\" basis, and he smoked \"copious amounts of hashish\" while in Afghanistan. Smith decided to travel to India alone, with just a guitar and a backpack. He set off to join the hippie trail, arriving in Turkey in October 1968, possibly via Austria and Greece. Smith met fellow Western travellers (an Irishman and two American women) in Istanbul, and they set off together in a VW van, intending to drive to Delhi. After the van broke down, they hitched a ride in a lorry transporting olive oil, before taking a bus to Iran. They passed through Afghanistan, with Smith deciding to leave his companions for a few days in Kandahar while they travelled on to Kabul. Smith never joined them in Kabul; when his companions returned to Kandahar a few months later, they heard rumours that he had \"gone crazy\", running through the market with a knife threatening people, and then disappeared. It later became apparent that after threatening a market vendor, Smith had been beaten close to death and robbed, and possibly kidnapped and raped. Smith possibly spent some time in an Afghan insane asylum, where he is thought to have developed acute schizophrenia. It is not known if Smith ever reached India, although he and his travelogue claims he did visit India and reconnected with the Maharishi and went to Nepal.\n\nSmith returned to the United States in late 1968 or early 1969, initially living back with his parents. He was possibly institutionalized and medicated for a short period. By this stage he was using the name \"Maitreya Kali\", which he intended to become his legal name, although this never happened until 1971. He continued to receive royalty checks from his historical songwriting for Williams and Campbell, amongst others. After his girlfriend left him, Smith decided to travel to South America, spending time in Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Argentina, and the Galapagos Islands of Chile. Returning from South America, Smith reunited with his girlfriend, and they became engaged. When the engagement ended, Smith ripped up the wedding dress his fiancée had chosen. Following another brief re-connection, the relationship ended for good when Smith violently threatened one of her male friends.\n\nSmith claimed to have mystical powers, and thought he was a messiah. He prophesied that he would be \"King of the World\" by 2000. He claimed to be a reincarnation of Jesus, Buddha, and Hitler. As his erratic and bizarre behavior became more pronounced, such as claiming voices were telling him to kill people, his friends started to ignore him. One friend eventually had to obtain a restraining order against Smith. His appearance became more and more unkempt, with long hair and a wild beard. At one point, he shaved his head and beard off, and dressed in robes, his appearance comparable to a Buddhist monk, although his hair and beard would later grow back. He visited Heather and Sheila MacRae in Miami, and was asked to leave by Sheila's new husband after he woke up to find Smith standing over their bed with a knife. Heather saw him again in Los Angeles in 1972, when he \"looked really scary [...] just totally looked insane, and would say weird things.\"\n\nSmith wrote two solo albums \"Apache\" and \"Inca\" in 1971, which were self-released in 1972. In the liner notes to both albums, Smith claims to have played every instrument. The liner notes as a whole have been described as \"bizarre [and] rambling\", and display his belief system. \"Apache\" was released on his own 'Akashic Records', and features three songs from the Penny Arkade recording sessions. \"Inca\" was released a few months after \"Apache\", in the summer of 1972, not as a standalone album but as a double gatefold with \"Apache\" on his new 'United Kingdom of America Records' label. Like \"Apache\", \"Inca\" also features songs from the Penny Arkade recording sessions. The albums were mainly distributed to Smith's friends or sold on the street.\n\nAfter the albums were released, Smith sold his car with the intention of going to Ethiopia. His mental health problems continued, such as suggesting to a friend that they fight to the death using samurai swords. He also had a small black spider tattooed in the middle of his forehead in 1972 or 1973. On April 22, 1973, Smith attacked his mother at the family home. An attempted murder charge was not established, and following a psychiatric examination, he pleaded 'no contest' to a charge of assault. He was sentenced in November 1973 to six months to life, the maximum sentence for the offence, and the Judge suggested intense medical and psychiatric treatment. He began his sentence at the California Institution for Men, before transferring to the Deuel Vocational Institution in December 1973. He transferred again, to the California Men's Colony, in February 1974. He was granted parole at the fourth attempt, and was released from prison in June 1976.\n\nSuzannah Jordan, the third member of \"The Happeners\" trio, ran into Smith in LA in 1977; he was homeless but did not display any mental health issues. He has been drifting in and out of mental hospitals until the mid-1980s when funding was cut, and would then spend the next years homeless. He also had various run-ins with the law. In 1981 or 1982 he saw another old friend and told her he had been recording music. He has been indeed recording music, according to Mike Stax, as late as the late 1990s, which includes the 1994 song \"Waves\", which was released on the 2018 CD version of the album Love is Our Existence. By the early 2000s his \"ramblings\" had moved from Eastern philosophy/his Maitreya Kali persona to aliens. Smith died on March 16, 2012. His family declined to collect his ashes, and they were eventually collected by journalist Mike Stax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19249543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19249543", "title": "Crime in the Maldives", "text": "Crime in the Maldives\n\nThere is a low rate of crime in the Maldives. Incidents of theft on beaches or in hotels do occur. Although the crime rate in the nation is generally considered to be low, crime rates are increasing. Juvenile delinquency is a growing problem in the Maldives. According to the data available from the Ministry of Defence and National Security, there is an increase in petty crime in the country. In 1992, 169 cases of petty crime were reported while the number was 462 in 1996. The number of sentenced persons under the age of 19 also increased from 391 in 1988 to 512 in 1998. Fraud examiner Peter Lilley in his book \"Dirty Dealing\" writes that money laundering is not a significant problem in the Maldives.\n\nDrug abuse is increasing in the country. The Maldives are situated in a location which is not too far from one of two major illicit opium producing centers in Asia - the Golden Triangle comprising Myanmar, Thailand and Laos. Many tourists visit the country from different parts of the world like Europe, the Middle East, South Asia and East Asia. These factors make the Maldives vulnerable as a point for illegal shipments of drugs meant for other nations. Abuse of illegally produced heroin is a visible problem in the Maldives along with other South Asian countries like Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Sri Lanka. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) believes that drug trafficking in the Maldives is a side effect of the nation’s increased exposure to the outside world. Drug abuse is also associated with increasing incidents of theft and robbery.\n\nThreat of terrorist attack is a matter of concern. The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) of the Government of Australia advised travelers \"to exercise caution\" because of the high threat of terrorism. According to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), \"Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by expatriates\".\n\nRate of criminal homicide and assault in the Maldives declined by 30% between the years 1997-2002. Crime involving bribery and fraud also declined by 33% during this time. In the Corruption Perceptions Index 2007, the Maldives was ranked 84th out of 179 countries for corruption (least corrupt countries are at the top of the list). On a scale of 0 to 10, with 0 being the least and ten being most transparent, Transparency International rated the Maldives 3.3.\n\n"}
{"id": "28836530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28836530", "title": "Criminal stereotype of African Americans", "text": "Criminal stereotype of African Americans\n\nThe criminal stereotype of African Americans in the United States is an ethnic stereotype according to which African American males in particular are stereotyped to be dangerous criminals. The figure of the African-American man as criminal has appeared frequently in American popular culture and has been associated with consequences in the justice system such as racial profiling and harsher sentences for African American defendants in trials.\n\nIn 2016 92% of interacial crimes in the US were committed by African Americans against whites but African Americans are most likely to be overrepresented in arrests. For example, in 1993, African Americans comprised 31 percent of total arrests yet constituted 12 percent of the population. A study found that in 1979, 80% of the racial disparity in prison populations was accounted for by African Americans committing more crime, but by 2008, another study by Michael Tonry and Matthew Melewski found that this percentage had decreased to 61%.\n\nIn 1994, African Americans accounted for between 45 percent and 50 percent of crimes for murder, rape, robbery, and aggravated assault. In general, African Americans are approximately six times more likely to be arrested for violent crimes than are whites. African Americans are also most overrepresented in robbery in 1993, comprising 62 percent of arrestees. African Americans accounted for 52.5% of homicide offenders from 1980 to 2008, with whites 45.3% and \"Other\" 2.2%. The offending rate for blacks was almost 8 times higher than whites while blacks account for less than 15% of people living in the United States.\n\nFor drug related offenses, from 1965 through the early 1980s, African Americans were approximately twice as likely as whites to be arrested. However, with the War on Drugs in the 1970s, African American arrest rates skyrocketed, while white arrest rates increased only slightly. By the end of the 1980s, African Americans were more than five times more likely than whites to be arrested for drug-related offenses. Blumstein argues that as national self-report data showed that drug use was actually declining among both African Americans and Whites, it is highly unlikely that these race differences in arrest rates represent \"real\" patterns of drug use. Instead these crime statistics reflect the government's targeting of only specific types of drug use and trafficking. Furthermore, although the \"black drug user\" stereotype is heavily associated with young African Americans, a recent survey using self-reported data found African American young people less likely to use illegal drugs than other racial groups in the U.S. Michelle Alexander furthers the argument that the disproportionate mass incarceration of African Americans in drug-related offenses is caused by racial bias within the criminal justice system, terming this phenomenon as \"The New Jim Crow\", in a book of the same name. Alexander claims that racial beliefs and stereotypes as a direct result of a media saturated with images of black criminals have obviously and predictably created a sharp disparity in the rates at which blacks and whites are subject to encounters with law enforcement.\n\nScholars have argued that these official arrest statistics do not fully reflect actual criminal behavior as the criminal stereotype that African Americans hold influences the decisions to make arrests. Specifically, because the stereotype of African American is pervasive and embedded in society, police officers unconsciously believe that African Americans are dangerous and are therefore more likely to arrest African Americans.\n\nInstead, self-reporting crime statistics have been used to overcome the criticism that the official arrest statistics are biased. Many studies found little or no differences in self-reported offending among juveniles of different racial and ethnic group, with some scholars suggesting that institutionalized racism within the criminal justice system is the cause for the disproportionate arrest rates of African Americans. However, Hindelang found that black males were least likely to self-report offenses recorded by the police, with 33 percent of total offenses and 57 percent of serious offenses known to police not being self-reported by African American males, suggesting some caution in concluding that self reported crime statistics accurately portray the actual rate of crime behavior.\n\nAccording to some scholars, the stereotype of African Americans males as criminals was first constructed as a tool to \"discipline\" and control slaves during the time of slavery in the United States. For instance, Amii Barnard alleges that out of fear of the fugitive slaves staging a rebellion, slaveholders sought to spread the stereotype that African American males were dangerous criminals who would rape the \"innocent\" and \"pure\" white women if they had the opportunity to. A law introduced in Pennsylvania in 1700 illustrates the fear of a dangerous African American man within the slaveholding society- it mandated that should a black man attempt to rape a White woman, the perpetrator will be castrated or punished to death.\n\nCarter et al. argues that this criminal stereotype contributed to lynching in the United States that mostly targeted African American males in the south. Ida B. Wells, the well-known anti-lynching activist published the pamphlet entitled the \"Southern Horrors: Lynch Law in All Its Phases\" from 1892-1920 reporting that contrary to the notion that lynchings occurred because African American males had sexually abused or attacked white women, fewer than 30% of reported lynchings even involved the charge of rape. She also followed up with an editorial that suggested that, most sexual liaisons between black men and white women were consensual and illicit. The criminal stereotype of African Americans as potential rapists at that time is also illustrated in the controversial media portrayal of African American men in the 1915 American epic film, The Birth of a Nation.\n\nAccording to Marc Mauer however, although African Americans have been consistently stereotyped as \"biologically flawed\" individuals who have a general tendency towards crime, the depiction of African Americans as criminals became more threatening only in the 1970s and early 1980s- with the evolution of the stereotype of African American males as \"petty thieves\" to \"ominous criminal predators\". In the late 1990s, Melissa Hickman Barlow argued that the perception of African American males as criminals was so entrenched in society that she said “talking about crime is talking about race”. Between 2005 and 2015, the gap in the incarceration rate between blacks and whites declined while still remaining high. The rate of incarceration for blacks declined -2.0% per year, for Hispanics it declined -2.3% per year while for whites it declined only -0.1% per year. Blacks today continue to be incarcerated at a rate over 2.1 times Hispanics and 5.6 times whites. The disparity varies widely by state and region.\n\nKatheryn Russell-Brown in her book \"The Color of Crime: Racial Hoaxes, White Fear, Black Protectionism, Police Harassment and Other Macroaggressions\" (1998) refers to the stereotype as the \"criminal black man\", because people associate young black men with crime in American culture. She writes that the black male is portrayed as a \"symbolic pillager of all that is good\". Russell-Brown refers to the criminal black man as a myth and suggests that the stereotype contributes to \"racial hoaxes\". She defines these as \"when someone fabricates a crime and blames it on another person because of his race OR when an actual crime has been committed and the perpetrator falsely blames someone because of his race\". Stuart Henry and Mark Lanier in \"What Is Crime?: Controversies Over the Nature of Crime and What to Do about It\" (2001) refer to the criminal black man as a \"mythlike race/gender image of deviance\".\n\nLinda G. Tucker in \"Lockstep and Dance: Images of black Men in Popular Culture\" (2007) argues that the representations in popular culture of criminal African American men help perpetuate the image. She writes that the portrayal of crime by conservative politicians during heated campaigns is used as a metaphor for race: they have recast fears about race as fears about crime. For instance, Republican opponents of Dukakis used the case of Willie Horton to attack the Democrat's stand on law enforcement, suggesting that people would be safer if led by Republicans. She says that such politicians used Horton as a collective symbol of African American male criminality.\n\nThe criminal African American man appears often in the context of athletics and sports. Arthur A. Raney and Jennings Bryant discuss this in \"Handbook of Sports and Media\" (2006). They cite \"Beyond the Cheers: Race as Spectacle in College Sport\" (2001) by C. Richard King and Charles Fruehling Springwood, which examines the connection between race, crime, and sports. They study the ways in which \"criminality indelibly marks the African American athlete\". Raney and Bryant says coverage and reception of accusations of crimes by sportspeople differed depending on the race of the individual.\n\nJohn Milton Hoberman in \"Darwin's Athletes: How Sport Has Damaged black America and Preserved the Myth of Race\" (1997) blames entertainment and advertising industries for propagating the negative stereotypes, namely, for \"the merger of the athlete, the gangster rapper, and the criminal into a single black male persona ... into the predominant image of black masculinity in the United States and around the world\", which has harmed racial integration.\n\nA number of studies have concluded that the news systematically portrays black Americans as criminals and whites as victims of the crime. For example, a study found that in news programs broadcast in the Los Angeles area, blacks were overly represented as perpetrators of crime and underrepresented as victims of crimes on television news, compared to actual crime statistics. This is in stark contrast to how, compared to actual crime statistics, whites were found to be underrepresented as perpetrators and overrepresented as victims of crime in television news stories.\n\nA study examining the news reports from \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"USA Today\" covering the effects of Hurricane Katrina showed that in 80% of the time black evacuees were portrayed in photographs, the word \"looting\" was mentioned in the captions, suggesting that the black evacuees were criminals.\n\nThere is evidence that the American society has internalized the criminal stereotype of African Americans. For example, in experiments where African American and white individuals perform the same act, respondents have reported that the black figure is more threatening than the white figure. Likewise, in surveys asking about fear of strangers in hypothetical situations, respondents are more fearful of being victimized by black strangers than by white strangers.\n\nIn other research, whites have been found to overestimate the differences between the rates at which whites and blacks commit some crimes. A 2012 study found that white Americans overestimated the percent of burglaries, illegal drug sales, and juvenile crimes committed by blacks by between 6.6 and 9.5 percentage points.\n\nThere is also some research suggesting that blacks have also internalized the criminal stereotype. According to a study, 82% of blacks think they are perceived as violent by Whites. African Americans are also more likely than Whites to think that racial profiling is widespread and to think they are treated unfairly by police, both in general and in actual criminal justice encounters.\n\nMany psychologists argue that the cultural stereotype of black criminality can have an unconscious but substantial influence on the way that \"people perceive individuals, process information, and form judgments\". For example, the criminal stereotype of African Americans could contribute to the reason behind why blacks are disproportionately more likely than Whites to be targeted by the police as suspects, interrogated and wrongfully convicted. The stereotype of a criminal African American has also been associated with racial profiling.\n\nIn addition, a report from the U.S. Sentencing Commission stated that the sentences of black men were on average 19.5% longer than the sentences of white men from December 2007 to September 2011. Although the report did not attribute racism to the difference in sentencing decisions, the report did write that the judges “make sentencing decisions based on many legitimate considerations that are not or cannot be measured.” Another similar study examining 58,000 federal criminal cases concluded that African-Americans’ jail time was almost 60% longer than white sentences while black men were on average more than twice as likely to face a mandatory minimum charge as white men were, even after taking into account arrest offense, age and location. Although some scholars say this discrepancy is due to them being repeat offenders, others state that this is partially due to prosecutors over-charging African American defendants in contrast to white defendants. Supporting the latter claim, in mock trials that experimentally manipulate the race of the defendant, respondents have been found to give African-American defendants harsher judgments of guilt and punishment than white defendants in otherwise identical cases. Similarly, Giliam found that exposure to African American rather than White suspects led to increased support for capital punishment and the three-strikes legislation.\n\nJoseph Rand also suggests that when black witnesses are on trial with white jurors, they are more likely to feel stereotype threat and are more likely to appear less credible. To elaborate, because black witnesses are aware of the stereotype relating them as criminals, they are more motivated to control their behavior to counter stereotypes and appear truthful. However, because they try so hard to appear credible, they appear more anxious and unnatural, and therefore less credible to jurors.\n\nLincoln and Devah argue that the criminal stereotype of African American males can explain the growing racial segregation in the United States. Specifically, they found that the percentage of young black men in a neighborhood is correlated with the respondent's perceptions of neighborhood crime level, even after taking into account measures of actual crime rates and other neighborhood characteristics. This could explain why other races avoid areas with many black men, as the area is perceived to be dangerous.\n\nAnother study found that after priming the \"black criminal\" stereotype among respondents (by exposing them to photographs of blacks appearing to plunder after Hurricane Katrina), the respondents reduced policy support for black evacuees-in-need but did not influence responses towards white evacuees-in-need.\n\nThe criminal stereotype of black individuals is not just limited to the United States. One study administered a survey to Canadians showed that they believed African Canadians are more likely to commit crime, with nearly half of the respondents believing that 65% of black people committed more crimes than other racial groups in Canada. A working group of human rights experts from the United Nations has also expressed concerns that anti-African Canadian systemic racism is rampant in the Canadian justice system, especially in the arbitrary use of racial profiling.\n\nRahier argues that Afro-Ecuadorians have been consistently stereotyped to be dangerous criminals in the popular and widely circulated magazine Vistazo, since the late 1950s. Similarly, he also argues that when race is mentioned in reporting of a crime in Ecuador's daily newspapers, the criminal was always black and the victim was always not black.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17774", "title": "Demographics of Lebanon", "text": "Demographics of Lebanon\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Lebanon, including population density, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nAbout 99% of the population of Lebanon includes numerous Muslim sects and Christian denominations. Because the matter of religious balance is a sensitive political issue, a national census has not been conducted since 1932, before the founding of the modern Lebanese state. Consequently, there is an absence of accurate data on the relative percentages of the population of the major religions and groups. The absence of data and comprehensive statistics concerns also concerns all other demographic studies unrelated to religious balance, due to the all but total inactivity of the concerned public agencies. The only recent (post-war) statistics available are estimates based on studies made by private organizations. There are from 8.6 to 14 million Lebanese and descendants of Lebanese worldwide.\n\nThe biggest study made after the independence on the Lebanese Population was made by the Central Administration of Statistics (in French: \"Administration Centrale de la Statistique\") under the direction of Robert Kasparian and Mgr. Grégoire Haddad's Social Movement: \"L'enquête par sondage sur la population active au Liban en 1970\"(in English: \"The survey on the active population in Lebanon in 1970\"). It was conducted on a sample of 130,000 individuals.\n\nEthnic background is an important factor in Lebanon. The country encompasses a great mix of cultural, religious, and ethnic groups which have been building up for more than 6,000 years. The Arabs invaded and occupied Phoenicia in the 7th century AD from Arabia. The predominant cultural backgrounds and ancestry of the Lebanese vary from Canaanite (Phoenician), Aramean (Ancient Syria) to Greek (Byzantine) and Arab. The question of ethnic identity has come to revolve more around aspects of cultural self-identification more than descent. Religious affiliation has also become a substitute in some respects for ethnic affiliation.\n\nGenerally, the cultural and linguistic heritage of the Lebanese people is a blend of both indigenous Phoenician elements and Arab cultures that have come to rule the land and its people over the course of thousands of years. Moreover, in a 2013 interview, the lead investigator, Pierre Zalloua, pointed out that genetic variation preceded religious variation and divisions: \"Lebanon already had well-differentiated communities with their own genetic peculiarities, but not significant differences, and religions came as layers of paint on top. There is no distinct pattern that shows that one community carries significantly more Phoenician than another\".\n\nThe Lebanese Christians are some of the oldest Christians in the world, preceded only by the oriental Orthodox of Armenia and the Coptic Christians of Ethiopia and Egypt. The Maronite Christians, belong to the West Syriac Rite. Their Liturgical language is the Syriac-Aramaic language. The Melkite Greek Catholics and the Greek Orthodox, tend to focus more on the Greco-Hellenistic heritage of the region from the days of the Byzantine Empire, and the fact that Greek was maintained as a liturgical language until very recently. Some Lebanese even claim partial descent from Crusader knights who ruled Lebanon for a couple of centuries during the Middle Ages, also backed by recent genetic studies which confirmed this among Lebanese people, especially in the north of the country that was under the Crusader County of Tripoli. This identification with non-Arab civilizations also exists in other religious communities, albeit not to the same extent.\n\nLebanon's religious divisions are extremely complicated, and the country is made up by a multitude of religious groupings. The ecclesiastical and demographic patterns of the sects and denominations are complex. Divisions and rivalries between groups date back as far as 15 centuries, and still are a factor today. The pattern of settlement has changed little since the 7th century, but instances of civil strife and ethnic cleansing, most recently during the Lebanese Civil War, has brought some important changes to the religious map of the country. (See also History of Lebanon.)\n\nLebanon has by far the largest proportion of Christians of any Middle Eastern country, but both Christians and Muslims are sub-divided into many splinter sects and denominations. Population statistics are highly controversial. The various denominations and sects each have vested interests in inflating their own numbers. Shias, Sunnis, Maronites and Greek Orthodox (the four largest denominations) all often claim that their particular religious affiliation holds a majority in the country, adding up to over 150% of the total population, even before counting the other denominations. One of the rare things that most Lebanese religious leaders will agree on is to avoid a new general census, for fear that it could trigger a new round of denominational conflict. The last official census was performed in 1932.\n\nReligion has traditionally been of overriding importance in defining the Lebanese population. Dividing state power between the religious denominations and sects, and granting religious authorities judicial power, dates back to Ottoman times (the millet system). The practice was reinforced during French mandate, when Christian groups were granted privileges. This system of government, while partly intended as a compromise between sectarian demands, has caused tensions that still dominate Lebanese politics to this day.\n\nThe Christian population majority is believed to have ended in the early 1960s, but government leaders would agree to no change in the political power balance. This led to Muslim demands of increased representation, and the constant sectarian tension slid into violent conflict in 1958 (prompting U.S. intervention) and again in the grueling Lebanese Civil War, in 1975–90.\n\nThe balance of power has been slightly adjusted in the 1943 National Pact, an informal agreement struck at independence, in which positions of power were divided according to the 1932 census. The Sunni elite was then accorded more power, but Maronites continued to dominate the system. The sectarian balance was again adjusted towards the Muslim side but simultaneously further reinforced and legitimized. Shia Muslims (by now the second largest sect) then gained additional representation in the state apparatus, and the obligatory Christian-Muslim representation in Parliament was downgraded from a 6:5 to a 1:1 ratio. Christians of various denominations were then generally thought to constitute about 40% of the population, although often Muslim leaders would cite lower numbers, and some Christians would claim that they still held a majority of the population.\n\nThe present Lebanese Constitution officially acknowledges 18 religious groups (see below). These have the right to handle family law according to their own courts and traditions, and they are the basic players in Lebanon's complex sectarian politics.\n\n\nThe 1932 census stated that Christians made up 51% of the population. Maronites, largest among the Christian denomination and then largely in control of the state apparatus, accounted for 29% of the total resident population.\nA 2012 study conducted by Statistics Lebanon, a Beirut-based research firm, cited by the United States Department of State found that of Lebanon's population of approximately 4.3 million is estimated to be:\n\n\nThere is also a very small number of other religious minorities such as, Bahais, Buddhists, Hindus and Mormons.\n\nThe CIA World Factbook specifies that of those residing in Lebanon, 59.7% are Muslims (Sunni, Shia, Druze, Alawites, and Sufi) and 39% are Christians (mostly Maronites, Eastern Orthodox, Melkite Catholics, Protestant, Armenian Apostolic, Assyrian Church of the East, Syriac Orthodox, Chaldean Catholic, Syrian Catholic) and 1.3% \"Other\".\n\nAccording to the CIA World Factbook, the Muslim population is estimated at around 59.5% within the Lebanese territory and of the 8.6–14 million Lebanese diaspora is believed by some to be about 20% of the total population. Sectarian Breakdown:\n\n\nIt is estimated that the Christian population in Lebanon makes up about 40.5% within the Lebanese territory and of the 8.6–14 million Lebanese diaspora is believed by some to be about 80% of the total population. Sectarian Breakdown:\n\n\nThe Druze constitute 5% of the population and can be found primarily in Mount Lebanon and the Shouf District.\n\nOther religions account for only an estimated 0.3% of the population mainly foreign temporary workers, according to the CIA Factbook. There remains a very small Jewish population, traditionally centered in Beirut. It has been larger: most Jews left the country after the Lebanese Civil War (1975–1990) as thousands of Lebanese did at that time.\n\nApart from the four and a half million citizens of Lebanon proper, there is a sizeable Lebanese diaspora. There are more Lebanese people living outside of Lebanon (8.6-14 million), than within (4.3 million). The majority of the diaspora population consists of Lebanese Christians; however, there are some who are Muslim. They trace their origin to several waves of Christian emigration, starting with the exodus that followed the 1860 Lebanon conflict in Ottoman Syria.\n\nUnder the current Lebanese nationality law, diaspora Lebanese do not have an automatic right of return to Lebanon. Due to varying degrees of assimilation and high degree of interethnic marriages, most diaspora Lebanese have not passed on the Arabic language to their children, while still maintaining a Lebanese ethnic identity.\n\nMany Lebanese families are economically and politically prominent in several Latin American countries (in 2007 Mexican Carlos Slim Helú, son of Lebanese immigrants, was determined to be the wealthiest man in the World by Fortune Magazine), and make up a substantial portion of the Lebanese American community in the United States. The largest Lebanese diaspora is located in Brazil, where about 6–7 million people have Lebanese descent (see Lebanese Brazilian). In Argentina, there is also a large Lebanese diaspora of approximately 1.5 million people having Lebanese descent. (see Lebanese Argentine). In Canada, there is also a large Lebanese diaspora of approximately 250,000-500,000 people having Lebanese descent. (see Lebanese Canadians).\n\nThere are also sizable populations in West Africa, particularly Ivory Coast, Sierra Leone and Senegal. \n\nThe large size of Lebanon's diaspora may be partly explained by the historical and cultural tradition of seafaring and traveling, which stretches back to Lebanon's ancient Phoenician origins and its role as a \"gateway\" of relations between Europe and the Middle East. It has been commonplace for Lebanese citizens to emigrate in search of economic prosperity. Furthermore, on several occasions in the last two centuries the Lebanese population has endured periods of ethnic cleansing and displacement (for example, 1840–60 and 1975–90). These factors have contributed to the geographical mobility of the Lebanese people.\n\nWhile under Syrian occupation, Beirut passed legislation which prevented second-generation Lebanese of the diaspora from automatically obtaining Lebanese citizenship. This has reinforced the émigré status of many diaspora Lebanese. There is currently a campaign by those Lebanese of the diaspora who already have Lebanese citizenship to attain the vote from abroad, which has been successfully passed in the Lebanese parliament and will be effective as of 2013 which is the next parliamentary elections. If suffrage was to be extended to these 1.2 million Lebanese émigré citizens, it would have a significant political effect, since as many as 80% of them are believed to be Christian.\n\nWith no official figures available, it is estimated that 600,000–900,000 persons fled the country during the Lebanese Civil War (1975–90). Although some have since returned, this permanently disturbed Lebanese population growth and greatly complicated demographic statistics.\n\nAnother result of the war was a large number of internally displaced persons. This especially affected the southern Shia community, as Israeli invasion of southern Lebanon in 1978, 1982 and 1996 prompted waves of mass emigration, in addition to the continual strain of occupation and fighting between Israel and Hezbollah (mainly 1982 to 2000).\n\nMany Shias from Southern Lebanon resettled in the suburbs south of Beirut. After the war, the pace of Christian emigration accelerated, as many Christians felt discriminated against in a Lebanon under increasingly oppressive Syrian occupation.\n\nAccording to a UNDP study, as much as 10% of the Lebanese had a disability in 1990. Other studies have pointed to the fact that this portion of society is highly marginalized due to the lack of educational and governmental support of their advancement.\n\nArabic is the official language of the country. Lebanese Arabic is mostly spoken in non-official contexts. French and English are taught in many schools from a young age. Among the Armenian ethnic minority in Lebanon, Armenian language is taught and spoken within the Armenian community.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\nThere are substantial numbers of immigrants from other Arab countries (mainly Palestine, Syria, Iraq and Egypt) and non-Arab-speaking Muslim countries. Also, recent years have seen an influx of people from Ethiopia and South East Asian countries such as Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, as well as smaller numbers of other immigrant minorities, Colombians and Brazilians (of Lebanese descent themselves). Most of these are employed as guest workers in the same fashion as Syrians and Palestinians, and entered the country to search for employment in the post-war reconstruction of Lebanon. Apart from the Palestinians, there are approximately 180,000 stateless persons in Lebanon.\n\nLebanese Armenians, Jews and Iranians form more distinct ethnic minorities, all of them in possession of a separate languages (Armenian, Hebrew, Persian) and a national home area (Armenia, Israel, Iran) outside of Lebanon. However, they combined total 5% of the population.\n\nDuring the French Mandate of Lebanon, there was a fairly large French minority and a tiny Italian minority. Most of the French and Italian settlers left after Lebanese independence in 1943 and only 22,000 French Lebanese and 4,300 Italian Lebanese continue to live in Lebanon. The most important legacy of the French Mandate is the frequent use and knowledge of the French language by most of the educated Lebanese people, and Beirut is still known as the \"Paris of the Middle East\".\n\nAround 450,000 Palestinian refugees were registered in Lebanon with the UNRWA in 2014, who are refugees or descendants of refugees from the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. Some 53% live in 12 Palestine refugee camps, who \"suffer from serious problems\" such as poverty and overcrowding. Some of these may have emigrated during the civil war, but there are no reliable figures available. There are also a number of Palestinians who are not registered as UNRWA refugees, because they left earlier than 1948 or were not in need of material assistance. The exact number of Palestinians remain a subject of great dispute and the Lebanese government will not provide an estimate. A figure of 400,000 Palestinian refugees would mean that Palestinians constitute more than 10% of the resident population of Lebanon.\n\nPalestinians living in Lebanon are considered foreigners and are under the same restrictions on employment applied to other foreigners. Prior to 2010, they were under even more restrictive employment rules which permitted, other than work for the U.N., only the most menial employment. They are not allowed to attend public schools, own property, or make an enforceable will. Palestinian refugees, who constitute nearly a tenth of the country's population, have long been denied basic rights in Lebanon. They are not allowed to attend public schools, own property or pass on inheritances, measures Lebanon says it has adopted to preserve their right to return to their property in what constitutes Israel now.\n\nTheir presence is controversial, and resisted by large segments of the Christian population, who argue that the primarily Sunni Muslim Palestinians dilute Christian numbers. Many Shia Muslims also look unfavorably upon the Palestinian presence since the refugee camps have tended to be concentrated in their home areas. The Lebanese Sunnis, however, would be happy to see these Palestinians given the Lebanese nationality, thus increasing the Lebanese Sunni population by well over 10% and tipping the fragile electoral balance much in favor of the Sunnis. Late prime minister Rafiq Hariri —himself a Sunni— had hinted on more than one occasion on the inevitability of granting these refugees Lebanese citizenship. Thus far the refugees are Lebanese citizenship as well as many rights enjoyed by the rest of the population, and are confined to severely overcrowded refugee camps, in which construction rights are severely constricted.\n\nPalestinians may not work in a large number of professions, such as lawyers and doctors. However, after negotiations between Lebanese authorities and ministers from the Palestinian National Authority some professions for Palestinians were allowed (such as taxi driver and construction worker). The material situation of the Palestinian refugees in Lebanon is difficult, and they are believed to constitute the poorest community in Lebanon, as well as the poorest Palestinian community with the possible exception of Gaza Strip refugees. Their primary sources of income are UNRWA aid and menial labor sought in competition with Syrian guest workers.\n\nThe Palestinians are almost totally Sunni Muslim, though at some point Christians counted as high as 40% with Muslims at 60%. The numbers of Palestinian Christians has diminished in later years, as many have managed to leave Lebanon. During the Lebanese Civil War, Palestinian Christians sided with the rest of the Palestinian community, instead of allying with Lebanese Eastern Orthodox or other Christian communities.\n\n60,000 Palestinians have received Lebanese citizenship, including most Christian Palestinians.\n\nIn 1976, the then Syrian president Hafez al-Assad sent troops into Lebanon to fight PLO forces on behalf of Christian militias. This led to escalated fighting until a cease-fire agreement later that year that allowed for the stationing of Syrian troops within Lebanon. The Syrian presence in Lebanon quickly changed sides; soon after they entered Lebanon they had flip-flopped and began to fight the Christian nationalists in Lebanon they allegedly entered the country to protect. The Kateab Party and the Lebanese Forces under Bachir Gemayel strongly resisted the Syrians in Lebanon. In 1989, 40,000 Syrian troops remained in central and eastern Lebanon under the supervision of the Syrian government. Although, the Taif Accord, established in the same year, called for the removal of Syrian troops and transfer of arms to the Lebanese army, the Syrian Army remained in Lebanon until the Lebanese Cedar Revolution in 2005 to end the Syrian occupation of Lebanon.\n\nIn 1994, the Lebanese government under the pressure of the Syrian government, gave Lebanese passport to thousands of Syrians.\n\nThere are nearly 1.08 million registered Syrian refugees in Lebanon.\n\nThere are an estimated 40,000 to 80,000 Iraqi Assyrian refugees in Lebanon. The vast majority of them are undocumented, with a large number having been deported or put in prison. They belong to various denominations, including the Assyrian Church of the East, Chaldean Catholic Church, and Syriac Catholic Church.\n\nDue to the US-led invasion of Iraq, Lebanon has received a mass influx of Iraqi refugees numbering at around 100,000. The vast majority of them are undocumented, with a large number having been deported or put in prison.\n\nThere are an estimated 60,000 to 100,000 Kurdish refugees from Turkey and Syria within Lebanese territory. Many of them are undocumented. As of 2012, around 40% of all Kurds in Lebanon do not have Lebanese citizenship.\n\nThe Turkish people began to migrate to Lebanon once the Ottoman sultan Selim I conquered the region in 1516. Turks were encouraged to stay in Lebanon by being rewarded with land and money. Today the Turkish minority numbers approximately 80,000. Moreover, since the Syrian Civil War, approximately 125,000 to 150,000 Syrian Turkmen refugees arrived in Lebanon, and hence they now outnumber the long established Turkish minority who settled since the Ottoman era.\n"}
{"id": "22696722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22696722", "title": "Domestic Extremism Lexicon", "text": "Domestic Extremism Lexicon\n\nThe Domestic Extremism Lexicon is a reference aid released by the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that defines different classifications of extremists. There has been controversy associated with it because it gives very broad definitions. \n\nThis document was released on March 26, 2009 which was two weeks before the right-wing extremists report that generated media attention.\n\n"}
{"id": "16383884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16383884", "title": "Drug detoxification", "text": "Drug detoxification\n\nDrug detoxification is variously the intervention in a case of physical dependence to a drug; the process and experience of a withdrawal syndrome; and any of various treatments for acute drug overdose.\n\nA detoxification program for physical dependence does not necessarily address the precedents of addiction, social factors, psychological addiction, or the often-complex behavioral issues that intermingle with addiction.\n\nThe United States Department of Health and Human Services acknowledges three steps in a drug detoxification process:\n\n\nThe principle of rapid detoxification is to use heavy sedation alongside dosing with opioid antagonists. This approach is expensive, ineffective and extremely dangerous.\n\nThe concept of \"detoxification\" comes from the discredited autotoxin theory of George E. Pettey and others. David F. Musto says that \"according to Pettey, opiates stimulated the production of toxins in the intestines, which had the physiological effect associated with withdrawal phenomena... Therefore treatment would consist of purging the body of toxins and any lurking morphine that might remain to stimulate toxin production in the future.\"\n\nNaltrexone therapy, which critics claim lacks long-term efficacy and can actually be detrimental to a patient's long-term recovery, has led to controversy. Additionally, there have been many questions raised about the ethics as well as safety of rapid detox following a number of deaths resulting from the procedure.\n"}
{"id": "20527339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20527339", "title": "Dusun language", "text": "Dusun language\n\nCentral Dusun, also known as Bunduliwan (Dusun: \"Boros Dusun\"), is one of the more widespread languages spoken by the Dusun and Kadazan peoples of Sabah, Malaysia.\n\nUnder the efforts of the Kadazandusun Cultural Association Sabah, the standardized Kadazan-Dusun language is of the central Bundu-Liwan dialect spoken in Bundu and Liwan (now parts of the present-day districts of Ranau, Tambunan and Keningau). Dusun Bundu-liwan's selection was based on it being the most mutually intelligible, when conversing with other Dusun or Kadazan dialects.\n\nThe Dusun-Kadazan language is written using the Latin alphabet and it has 22 characters (the letters C, E, F, Q, and X are not used except in loanwords):\n\nA B D G H I K L M N O P R S T U V W Y Z\n\nThese characters together are called \"Pimato\".\n\nSemivowels /w j/ and rhotic /r/ only occur in most of the other dialects of the Dusun/Kadazan languages. Forschner (1978) and Antonissen (1958) list two fricatives /v z/ for the Rungus and Penampang Kadazan dialects. [x] is also listed as an allophone of /k/ in word-medial position.\n\nThe vowels are divided into:\n\nSimple vowels: /i u a o/\n\nDiphthongs: \"aa ai\" (sometimes pronounced /e/) \"ii oi uu\"\n\nForschner (1978) notes for the Rungus dialect that the phoneme /e/ is a contraction of the diphthongs /ai/ or /oi/.\n\nSome combinations of vowels do not form diphthongs and each vowel retains its separate sound: ao ia iu ui ue. In some words aa is not a diphthong, and this is indicated by an apostrophe between the two vowels: a’a.\n\nThe Dusun phrase structure follow a different pattern since the normal English SUBJECT – VERB – OBJECT structure is non-existent in the Dusun construction. A typical Dusun sentence follows the VERB – SUBJECT – OBJECT structure.\n\nExample\n\nDusun sentence: Monginum isio do waig.\n\nDirect English translation: Drink him water.\n\nEnglish interpretation: He is drinking water.\n\nDusun sentence: Nunu maan nu do suab?\n\nDirect English translation: What do you tomorrow?\n\nEnglish interpretation: \"What are you doing tomorrow?\" or to a lesser extent, \"Are you doing anything tomorrow?\"\n\nOntok di timpuun ih, tuminimpuun o Kinorohingan do minomonsoi do libabou om pomogunan. Orolot iti pomogunan om inggaa suang, om pointuong nokulumutan di rahat topuhod. Mintulud sunduan do Kinorohingan do hiri id soibau di waig. Om pomoros nodi o Kinorohingan do, \"Nawau no\" ka. Om haro nodi o tanawau. Om asanangan tomod o Kinorohingan do nokokitoh diri. Pitongkiado no do Kinoingan ih tanawau do mantad hiri id totuong. Om pungaranai nodi do Kinorohingan do \"dangadau\" it anawau, om iri otuong nopo nga pinungaranan dau do \"dongotuong\". Haro di sosodopon, sinusuhut minsusuab – iri no o tadau kumoiso.\n\nIn the beginning God created heaven and earth. The earth was formless and empty, and darkness covered the deep water. The spirit of God was hovering over the water. Then God said, \"Let there be light!\" So there was light. God saw the light was good. So God separated the light from the darkness. God named the light \"day\", and the darkness he named \"night\". There was evening, then morning, the first day.\n\nThe following table is a comparison of lexical terms in English, Dusun (Kadazan) and the Malaysian language.\n\n"}
{"id": "52082188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52082188", "title": "Eastern Bolivian Guaraní", "text": "Eastern Bolivian Guaraní\n\nThe Eastern Bolivian Guaraní, or Ava Guaraní, are an Indigenous people formerly known as Chiriguanos or Chiriguano Indians. Noted for their warlike character, the Chiriguanos retained their lands in the Andes foothills of southeastern Bolivia from the 16th to the 19th centuries by fending off, first, the Inca Empire, later, the Spanish Empire, and, still later, independent Bolivia. The Chiriguanos were finally subjugated in 1892. \n\nThe Chiriguanos of history nearly disappeared from public consciousness after their 1892 defeat -- but were reborn beginning in the 1970s. In the 21st century the descendants of the Chiriguanos call themselves Guaranis which links them with millions of speakers of Guarani dialects and languages in Paraguay, Argentina, and Brazil. \n\nThe census of 2001 counted 81,011 Guaraní, mostly Chiriguanos, over 15 years of age living in Bolivia. A 2010 census counted 18,000 Ava Guarani in Argentina.</small> The Eastern Bolivian Guaraní language was spoken by 33,000 people in Bolivia, 15,000 in Argentina, and a few hundred in Paraguay. \n\nThe common name for the Eastern Bolivian Guaraní since the 16th century has been variations of the name \"Chirihuano\", a word of Quechua origin which referred to itinerant doctors or medicine vendors (curanderos) from the Bolivian province of Larecaja, called also \"Collahuayas\", \"Yungeños\" and \"Charasanis\". Because \"chiri\" means \"cold\" in Quechua, the word chirihuano has been interpreted with the pejorative meaning of \"people who die from freezing\". In the late 16th century, the Quechua term was Hispanized to Chiriguanos. Although Chiriguanos usually refers to Guarani language speaking peoples in eastern Bolivia, the Spanish sometimes applied the term to all Guarani peoples and other lowland people speaking non-Guarani languages living in the eastern Andes and the Gran Chaco region.\n\nThe Chiriguanos called themselves \"ava,\" meaning humans. The Guarani people are believed by archaeologists to have originated in the central part of the Amazon rainforest and migrated southward at an uncertain date. Equally uncertain is the date they arrived in eastern Bolivia. The historical Chirguano were a synthesis of the Chané and the Guaraní. The Chiroguanos migrated from Paraguay to Bolivia in the beginning of the 16th century absorbing, assimilating, and enslaving the Chané. \n\nSome Ava Guaraní peoples may still have been migrating into the eastern Andes at the time of the Spanish conquest in the 1530s, possibly drawn by the riches of the Incas and Spanish and in search of the mythical land of \"Candire\", the \"land without evil\", rich with gold and other wealth.\n\nThe Chiriguanos occupied the foothills between the high Andes and the Altiplano and the flat plains of the Gran Chaco, living mostly at elevations between and . The climate is sub-tropical and precipitation during the rainy season is adequate for growing crops. The region is characterized by steep ridges and deep river valleys making access and communication difficult. The Chriguanos were never united as a people into a single political unit, but instead functioned on the village level and formed loosely-organized regional coalitions headed by a paramount chieftain, or \"tubicha rubicha\" (\"capitán grande\" in Spanish).\nThe Chiriguanos had a warrior ethos, fighting among themselves as well as outsiders. They said they were \"men without masters\" and considered themselves superior to other peoples whom they called \"tapua\" or slaves. The Spanish described them in the most unfavorable terms possible: without religion and government, dedicated to war and cannibalism, naked and sexually promiscuous. That litany of offenses justified, in Spanish eyes, undertaking wars of \"fire and blood\" against the Chiriguanos and enslaving them. \n\nThe Chiriguanos acquired horses and guns from the Spanish, but their preferred method of fighting was on foot and with bow and arrow. The Spanish by contrast preferred to fight on horseback and with guns, although guns were in short supply on the frontier for much of history. The Chiriguanos were an agricultural people, cultivating maize and other crops. They initially lived in very large longhouses in villages, but, probably for defense, they came to live in small dispersed settlements of individual houses. \n\nUntil the 19th century the Chiriguanos proved impervious to the attempts of missionaries to convert them to Christianity. A Jesuit mission in 1767 had only 268 Chiriguano converts, as compared to the tens of thousands the Jesuits had converted eastward in Paraguay among other Guarani speaking peoples.\n\nSpanish estimates of the number of Chiriguano warriors between 1558 and 1623 range from 500 to 4,000. Despite epidemics of European diseases, the Chiriguano population, probably due in part to the incorporation of the Chané, rose to a high of more than 100,000 in the late 18th century. \n\nLarge-scale Chiriguano raids against the Inca began in the 1520s. The Inca established defensive settlements, including what are now the archaeological sites of Oroncota and Samaipata, to fend off the Chiriguanos. The Spanish became concerned with the raids of the Chiriguanos in the 1540s because they threatened the indigenous (Indian) workers of the rich silver mines at Potosí and surrounding areas. The Spanish also wished to establish links between their settlements in the Andes and those in Paraguay. In 1564, under a leader named Vitapue, the Chriguanos destroyed two Spanish settlements in eastern Bolivia and a generalized war between the Spaniards and the Chiriguanos began. In 1574, The Viceroy of Peru, Francisco de Toledo led a large--and unsuccessful invasion--into Chiriguano territory and in 1584 the Spanish declared a \"war of fire and blood\" against the Chiriguanos. In 1594, the Chiriguano forced the abandonment of the Spanish settlement of Santa Cruz and its relocation to the present site of the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra. Some of the settlers abandoned the area and floated down the Amazon River to its mouth and returned to Spain. \n\nThe Spanish in the early 17th century followed a policy of attempting to populate the Andean foothills where the Chiriguanos lived and established three main centers as frontier defense: Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Tomina, east of Sucre), and Tarija. By about 1620, however, the Spanish had given up ambitious attempts to advance the frontier. Records are lacking for the next 100 years, but it appears it was a period of relative peace in which Spaniard and indigenous allies enjoyed an uneasy co-existence with the Chiriguanos, although punctuated by mutual raids on each other.\n\nThe Jesuits, successful in their missionary enterprises in Paraguay, attempted to Christianize the Chiriguanos as early as the 1630s, but had little success.\n\nWhat historian Thierry Saignes called the \"General Uprising\" of the Chiriguanos began in 1727. The underlying causes of the uprising were the Spanish colonization of areas near Tarija, led by Jesuit, Dominican, and Franciscan missionaries and Spanish cattle ranchers who coveted the rich pasture lands of the Andes foothills. The spark that ignited the war was the punishment by the missionaries of Chiriguano neophytes at Jesuit and Dominican missions, especially that of Juan Bautista Aruma, who became one of the three principal leaders of the uprising. However, during the war, the Chiriguanos were not united. Their leaders pursued different strategies and some Chiriguanos did not join the uprising. \n\nIn October 1727, with cooperation from the Toba and Mocoví peoples, the Chiriguanos attacked with an army of 7,000 men, destroying Christian missions and Spanish ranches east of Tarija, killing more than 200 Spaniards and taking many women and children prisoner. In March 1728, they attacked Monteagudo (then called Sauces), burned the Church and took 80 Spanish prisoners. The Spanish counterattacked from Santa Cruz in July 1728 with an army of 1200 Spaniards and 200 Chiquitano archers recruited from the Jesuit Missions of Chiquitos in eastern Bolivia. The Spanish army destroyed many Chiriguano villages, killed more than 200 people, and took more than 1,000 prisoners. Violating a truce to negotiate an exchange of prisoners, the Spanish captured 62 Chiriguano leaders, including Aruma, and enslaved them in the silver mines. Spanish expeditions into Chiriguano territory in 1729 and 1731 were less successful. In 1735 the Chiriguano besieged Santa Cruz but the siege was broken by 340 Chiquitano warriors sent from Jesuit missions. In that same year, the Chiriguanos destroyed two reestablished Jesuit missions near Tarija. The Chiriguano integrated some of their captives into their society; others on both sides were released or ransomed, with slavery being a common fate of captives of the Spanish, especially women and children. \n\nAfter the General Uprising, additional wars in the 18th century between the Chiriguano and Spanish occurred in 1750 and from 1793 to 1799. The brush-fire wars between Spaniard and Chiriguano were largely conflicts about resources. The Chiriguanos were farmers who grew corn; the Spanish and Mestizo settlers encroaching upon or living in Chiriguano territory were ranchers who raised cattle. The ranchers and their cattle destroyed Chiriguano settlements and corn fields and the Chiriguanos killed cattle and often ranchers.\n\nAccording to scholar Erick Langer, the Chiriguanos held the upper hand in the Andes borderlands until the 1860s. Spanish-speaking communities, called Creole or \"karai\" as most of the people were of mixed Spanish/Indian heritage, survived by paying tribute to local Chiriguano groups. However, Chiriguano maize crops failed during a drought from 1839 to 1841 and the Chiriguanos resorted to increased raids on cattle herds, both eating the cattle and killing them to halt the advances of the Hispanic ranchers. As the demand for meat increased in the rest of Bolivia, the pressure on the Chiriguanos by the ranchers and soldiers became more intense. Also, it appears that the population of the Chiriguanos declined after the 18th century.\n\n\"The most important factor in the loss of Chiriguano independence was the reestablishment of the Franciscan missions\" beginning in 1845. After more than two centuries of failure, Christian missions enjoyed some success among the Chiriguanos. The reasons for this success seemed to be that many Chiriguanos turned to the missions for protection from internal disputes and conflict with the Creole ranchers and settlers, the Bolivian government, and other Indian peoples. The missions and the Bolivian government benefited from the labor of the mission Chiriguanos and also recruited many of them as soldiers against independent Chiriguanos and other Indians. The numbers and the independence of the Chiriguano also declined beginning in the 1850s when many of them began migrating to Argentina to work on sugar plantations. By the 1860s, the Bolivian government was taking a more aggressive stand against the Chiriguanos, awarding large grants of land to ranchers in their territory. Outright massacres of Chiriguanos became more common. Chiriguano fighters were routinely executed when captured and women and children sold into servitude.\n\nThe Chiriguanos made two last attempts to retain their independence: the Huacaya War of 1874-1877, in which rebellious Chiriguanos were defeated, and the rebellion of 1892. The 1892 rebellion broke out in January at the mission of Santa Rosa de Cuevo. It was led by a 28 year old man named Chapiaguasu, who styled himself Apiaguaiki Tumpa (Eunuch of God) and said that he had been sent to earth to save the Chiriguanos from Christianity and the Franciscan missionaries. With an army of 1,300 Chiriguanos, Apiaguaiki led a failed attack against the mission on January 21. The Creoles led a counter-attack on January 28 with 50 soldiers, 140 Creole militia, and 1,500 friendly Indians armed with bows and arrows. In the Battle of Kuruyuki, the Creole army killed more than 600 Chiriguanos with losses of their own of only four killed, all Indians. Following the battle, the Creole army massacred Chiriguanos who surrendered and sold women and children into slavery. The 2,000 Chiriguanos resident at the Santa Rosa de Cuevo mission mostly supported the Creole army.\n\nApiaguaiki was later captured and on March 29, 1892 was tortured and executed by Bolivian authorities. The movement he led was similar to other contemporary Millenarian movements around the world such as the Ghost Dance in the United States and the Boxer Rebellion in China.\n\nThe influence of the Fransciscan missions declined during the 20th century. A Chiriguano leader named Ubaldino Cundeye, his wife, Octavia, and relatives moved to La Paz in 1930 and asserted that the Chiriguanos had rights as citizens of Bolivia. Cundeye campaigned for the Chiriguanos to reclaim land from the missions. However, the Chaco War (1932-1935) resulted in the dispossession of much of the remaining land belonging to the missions and the Chiriguanos. The Chiriguanos largely became migrant, landless workers, many in Argentina. The missions were finally dissolved in 1949.\n\nCommunist revolutionary Ernesto \"Che\" Guevara was attempting to foment revolution among the Chiriguanos when he was captured and executed by Bolivian soldiers on October 9, 1967. Guevara and his Cuban followers had studied Quechua to communicate with Bolivian peasants, but the Chiriguanos spoke Guarani. In 2005, to attract tourists, the Guarani created the \"Trail of Che Guevara\" which extends for through the territory in which Guevara and his mini-army operated.\nThe Eastern Bolivian or Ava Guaraní, as they are increasingly called rather than Chiriguano (which has pejorative origins), participate in the Assembly of the Guaraní People, founded in 1987, a pan-national organization which represents the Guaraní people in the several countries in which they live. The Guaraní are also represented in the Confederation of Indigenous Peoples of Bolivia. Their aim is to recover some of their ancestral lands and promote economic development, education, and health among their people.\n\nA 2009 investigation by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights found that 600 Guaraní families in Bolivia continue to live in conditions of \"debt bondage and forced labor, which are practices that comprise contemporary forms of slavery.\"\n"}
{"id": "4610544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4610544", "title": "Economic planning", "text": "Economic planning\n\nEconomic planning is a mechanism for the allocation of resources between and within organizations which is held in contrast to the market mechanism. As an allocation mechanism for socialism, economic planning replaces factor markets with a direct allocation of resources within a single or interconnected group of socially-owned organizations.\n\nThere are various forms of economic planning. The level of centralization in the decision-making depends on the specific type of planning mechanism employed. As such, one can distinguish between centralized planning and decentralized planning. An economy primarily based on central planning is referred to as a planned economy. In a centrally planned economy the allocation of resources is determined by a comprehensive plan of production which specifies output requirements. Planning may also take the form of directive planning or indicative planning.\n\nA distinction can be made between physical planning (as in pure socialism) and financial planning (as practiced by governments and private firms in capitalism). Physical planning involves economic planning and coordination conducted in terms of disaggregated physical units, whereas financial planning involves plans formulated in terms of financial units.\n\nDifferent forms of economic planning have been featured in various models of socialism. These range from decentralized-planning systems, which are based on collective decision-making and disaggregated information, to centralized systems of planning conducted by technical experts who use aggregated information to formulate plans of production. In a fully developed socialist economy, engineers and technical specialists, overseen or appointed in a democratic manner, would coordinate the economy in terms of physical units without any need or use for financial-based calculation. The economy of the Soviet Union never reached this stage of development, so planned its economy in financial terms throughout the duration of its existence. Nonetheless, a number of alternative metrics were developed for assessing the performance of non-financial economies in terms of physical output (i.e. net material product versus gross domestic product).\n\nIn general, the various models of socialist economic planning exist as theoretical constructs that have not been implemented fully by any economy, partially because they depend on vast changes on a global scale (see mode of production). In the context of mainstream economics and the field of comparative economic systems, \"socialist planning\" usually refers to the Soviet-type command economy, regardless of whether or not this economic system actually constituted a type of socialism or state capitalism or a third, non-socialist and non-capitalist type of system.\n\nIn some models of socialism, economic planning completely substitutes the market mechanism, supposedly rendering monetary relations and the price system obsolete. In other models, planning is utilized as a complement to markets.\n\nThe classical conception of socialist economic planning held by Marxists involved an economic system where goods and services were valued, demanded and produced directly for their use-value, as opposed to being produced as a by-product of the pursuit of profit by business enterprises. This idea of \"production for use\" is a fundamental aspect of a socialist economy. This involves social control over the allocation of the surplus product and in its most extensive theoretical form calculation-in-kind in place of financial calculation. For Marxists in particular, planning entails control of the surplus product (profit) by the associated producers in a democratic manner. This differs from planning within the framework of capitalism, which is based on the planned accumulation of capital in order to either stabilize the business cycle (when undertaken by governments) or to maximize profits (when undertaken by firms), as opposed to the socialist concept of planned production for use.\n\nIn such a socialist society based on economic planning, the primary function of the state apparatus changes from one of political rule over people (via the creation and enforcement of laws) into a technical administration of production, distribution and organization; that is, the state would become a coordinating economic entity rather than a mechanism of political and class-based control and thereby ceasing to be a state in the traditional sense.\n\nThe concept of a command economy is differentiated from the concept of a planned economy (or economic planning), especially by socialists and Marxists who liken command economies (such as that of the former Soviet Union) to that of a single capitalist firm, organized in a top-down administrative fashion based on bureaucratic organization akin to that of a capitalist corporation.\n\nEconomic analysts have argued that the economy of the former Soviet Union actually represented an administered or command economy as opposed to a planned economy because planning did not play an operational role in the allocation of resources among productive units in the economy, since in actuality the main allocation mechanism was a system of command-and-control. As a result, the phrase administrative command economy gained currency as a more accurate descriptor of Soviet-type economies.\n\nDecentralized economic planning is a planning process that starts at the user-level in a bottom-up flow of information. As such, decentralized planning often appears as a complement to the idea of socialist self-management (most notably by libertarian socialists and democratic socialists).\n\nThe theoretical postulates for models of decentralized socialist planning stem from the thought of Karl Kautsky, Rosa Luxemburg, Nikolai Bukharin and Oskar Lange. This model involves economic decision-making based on self-governance from the bottom-up (by employees and consumers) without any directing central authority. This often contrasts with the doctrine of orthodox Marxist–Leninism, which advocates directive administrative planning where directives are passed down from higher authorities (planning agencies) to agents (enterprise managers), who in turn give orders to workers.\n\nTwo contemporary models of decentralized planning are participatory economics, developed by the economist Michael Albert; and negotiated coordination, developed by the economist Pat Devine.\n\nMaterial balance planning was the type of economic planning employed by Soviet-type economies. This system emerged in a haphazard manner during the collectivisation drive under Joseph Stalin and emphasized rapid growth and industrialization over efficiency. Eventually this method became an established part of the Soviet conception of \"socialism\" in the post-war period and other socialist states emulated it in the latter half of the 20th century. Material balancing involves a planning agency (Gosplan in the case of the Soviet Union) taking a survey of available inputs and raw materials, using a balance-sheet to balance them with output targets specified by industry, thereby achieving a balance of supply and demand.\n\nThe economic models developed in the 1920s and 1930s by American economists Fred M. Taylor and Abba Lerner and by Polish economist Oskar Lange involved a form of planning based on marginal cost pricing. In Lange's model, a central planning board would set prices for producer goods through a trial-and-error method, adjusting until the price matched the marginal cost, with the aim of achieving Pareto-efficient outcomes. Although these models were often described as \"market socialism\", they actually represented a form of \"market simulation\" planning.\n\nLarge corporations use planning to allocate resources internally among its divisions and subsidiaries. Many modern firms also use regression analysis to measure market demand to adjust prices and to decide upon the optimal quantities of output to be supplied. Planned obsolescence is often cited as a form of economic planning that is used by large firms to increase demand for future products by deliberately limiting the operational lifespan of its products.\n\nThe internal structures of corporations have been described as centralized command economies that use both planning and hierarchical organization and management.\n\nAccording to J. Bradford DeLong, many transactions in Western economies do not pass through anything resembling a market but are actually movements of value among different branches and divisions within corporations, companies, and agencies. Furthermore, much economic activity is centrally planned by managers within firms in the form of production planning and marketing management (that consumer demand is estimated, targeted and included in the firm's overall plan) and in the form of production planning.\n\nIn \"The New Industrial State\", the American economist John Kenneth Galbraith noted that large firms manage both prices and consumer demand for their products by sophisticated statistical methods. Galbraith also pointed out that because of the increasingly complex nature of technology and the specialization of knowledge, management had become increasingly specialized and bureaucratized. The internal structures of corporations and companies had been transformed into what he called a \"technostructure.\" Its specialized groups and committees are the primary decision-makers, and specialized managers, directors, and financial advisers operate under formal bureaucratic procedures, replacing the individual entrepreneur's role (see also intrapreneurship). Galbraith stated that both the obsolete notion of \"entrepreneurial capitalism\" and democratic socialism (defined as democratic management) are impossible organizational forms for managing a modern industrial system.\n\nJoseph Schumpeter, an economist associated with both the Austrian school and the Institutional school of economics, argued that the changing nature of economic activity (specifically the increasing bureaucratization and specialization required in production and management) was the major cause for capitalism eventually evolving into socialism. The role of the businessman was increasingly bureaucratic, and specific functions within the firm required increasingly specialized knowledge, which could be supplied as easily by state functionaries in publicly-owned enterprises.\n\nIn the first volume of \"Das Kapital\", Karl Marx identified the process of capital accumulation as central to the law of motion of capitalism. The increased industrial capacity caused by the increasing returns to scale further socializes production. Capitalism eventually socializes labor and production to a point that the traditional notions of private ownership and commodity production become increasingly insufficient for further expanding the productive capacities of society, necessitating the emergence of a socialist economy in which means of production are socially owned and the surplus value is controlled by the workforce. Many socialists viewed these tendencies, specifically the increasing trend toward economic planning in capitalist firms, as evidence of the increasing obsolescence of capitalism and inapplicability of ideals like perfect competition to the economy, with the next stage of evolution being the application of society-wide economic planning.\n\nState development planning or national planning refers to macroeconomic policies and financial planning conducted by governments to stabilize the market or promote economic growth in market-based economies. This involves the use of monetary policy, industrial policy and fiscal policy to \"steer\" the market toward targeted outcomes. Industrial policy includes government taking measures \"aimed at improving the competitiveness and capabilities of domestic firms and promoting structural transformation\".\n\nIn contrast to socialist planning, state development planning does not replace the market mechanism and does not eliminate the use of money in production. It only applies to privately owned and publicly owned firms in the strategic sectors of the economy and seeks to coordinate their activities through indirect means and market-based incentives (such as tax breaks or subsidies).\n\nThe Soviet Union's model of economic planning had decisions on production and investment are embodied in a plan formulated by the Gosplan, the state planning agency. The system used material balance planning. Economic information, including consumer demand and enterprise resource requirements, were aggregated to balance supply, from the available resource inventories, with demand, based on requirements for individual economic units and enterprises, through a system of iterations.\n\nThe Soviet economy operated in a centralized and hierarchical manner. The process used directives, which were issued to lower-level organizations. The Soviet economic model was thus often referred to as a command economy or an administered economy, as plan directives were enforced by inducements in a vertical power structure, but planning played little functional role in the allocation of resources.\n\nThe United States used economic planning during the First World War. The federal government supplemented the price system with centralized resource allocation and created a number of new agencies to direct important economic sectors: notably, the Food Administration, Fuel Administration, Railroad Administration and War Industries Board. During the Second World War, the economy experienced staggering growth under a similar system of planning. In the postwar period, U.S. governments utilized such measures as the Economic Stabilization Program to directly intervene in the economy to control prices, wages, \"et cetera\" in different economic sectors.\n\nSince the start of the Cold War, the federal government has directed a significant amount of investment and funding into research and development (R&D), often initially through the US Department of Defense. The government performs 50% of all R&D in the United States, with a dynamic state-directed public-sector developing most of the technology that later becomes the basis of the private sector economy. As a result, Noam Chomsky has referred to the US economic model as a form of state capitalism. Examples include laser technology, the internet, nanotechnology, telecommunications and computers, with most basic research and downstream commercialization financed by the public sector. That includes research in other fields including healthcare and energy, with 75% of most innovative drugs financed through the National Institutes of Health.\n\nThe development models of the East Asian Tiger economies involved varying degrees of economic planning and state-directed investment in a model sometimes described as \"state development capitalism\" or the \"East Asian Model.\"\n\nThe economy in both Malaysia and South Korea were instituted by a series of macroeconomic government plans (First Malaysia Plan and Five-Year Plans of South Korea) that rapidly developed and industrialized their mixed economies.\n\nThe economy of Singapore was partially based on government economic planning that involved an active industrial policy and a mixture of state-owned industry and free-market economy.\n\nUnder \"dirigisme\", France used indicative planning and established a number of state-owned enterprises in strategic sectors of the economy. The concept behind indicative planning is the early identification of oversupply, bottlenecks, and shortages so that state investment behavior can be quickly modified to reduce market disequilibrium so that stable economic development and growth can be sustained. France experienced its \"Trente Glorieuses\" (Thirty Glorious), years with economic prosperity.\n\nThe need for long-term economic planning to promote efficiency was a central component of Labour Party thinking until the 1970s. The Conservative Party largely agreed, which produced the postwar consensus, the broad bipartisan agreement on major policies.\n\nThe most notable critique of economic planning came from Austrian economists Friedrich Hayek and Ludwig von Mises. Hayek argued that central planners could not possibly accrue the necessary information to formulate an effective plan for production because they are not exposed to the rapid changes that take place in an economy in any particular time and place and so they are unfamiliar with those circumstances. The process of transmitting all the necessary information to planners is thus inefficient. Also, Mises had a similar opinion.\n\nProponents of decentralized economic planning have also criticized central economic planning. For example, Leon Trotsky believed that central planners, regardless of their intellectual capacity, operated without the input and participation of the millions of people who participate in the economy and so they would be unable to respond to local conditions quickly enough to effectively coordinate all economic activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "36526193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36526193", "title": "Francisco Guerrero (serial killer)", "text": "Francisco Guerrero (serial killer)\n\nFrancisco Guerrero Pérez (1840–1910), also known as Antonio Prida, was a Mexican serial killer in the late 19th century. He was the first serial killer to be captured in Mexico, although he was not the country's first recorded serial killer. Guerrero killed approximately twenty female prostitutes in Mexico City between 1880 and 1888. He also killed one woman whose status as a prostitute has been inconsistently reported.\n\nGuerrero and Jack the Ripper were contemporaries and their modus operandi were similar—some authors compare the two men. He was also known as \"El Chalequero\", \"The Mexican Bluebeard\", \"The Consulado River Strangler\", \"The Consulado River Ripper\", or \"The Mexican Ripper\". He was an organized, sedentary, and missionary killer who was motivated by hatred.\n\nFrancisco Guerrero Pérez was born in 1840 in the Bajío region of Mexico to an impoverished family. He was an eleventh child whose childhood was marked by poverty, maternal abuse and paternal absence. In 1862, the twenty-two-year-old migrated to Mexico City, where he worked for a shoemaker.\nGuerrero dressed extravagantly but elegantly, with cashmere pants, a charro vest and a charro jacket. He was described by an anonymous source as a \"...handsome, elegant, flirtatious and quarrelsome man\".\n\nThere are two theories on the origin of the nickname \"Chalequero\". One says that it was simply because he always used vests, and the other postulates it was because the name \"Chalequero\" alludes to the Spanish expression \"... a puro chaleco\". This expression means that he made a sexual victim of any woman that he felt attracted to, whether they liked him or not.\n\nGuerrero was psychopathic; he did not feel empathy or guilt and he had a parasitic lifestyle. He saw other persons as objects, had inflated self-esteem, suffered sudden anger attacks, was manipulative and promiscuous. However, he was charismatic. In the prison, he was described by the other prisoners as: \"a silent and quiet person, he cares about his appearance\". On one occasion, he wrote a letter to the prison director asking permission for his family to bring him a new pair of pants so that he could, in his words, \"dress according to his education\". \n\nHe saw the female gender as nothing more than a disposable conduit to sexual gratification. His crimes involved hate, showed extreme cruelty and were marked by perversions such as sexual mutilation. He violated his victims to show the superiority and power that, according to him, he held over the women. Almost all of his victims were prostitutes, but he didn't kill them because of their work; he killed them because they were vulnerable. According to him, \"...women had a duty to be faithful to their men, and female adultery should be punished with the death penalty.\"\n\nCarlos Roumagnac, one of the first Mexican criminologists, concluded that \"Consulado River`s Ripper\" was a born criminal:\n\nHis crimes have since been dramatized in 's novel Carne de Ataud.\n"}
{"id": "50948826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50948826", "title": "GingerMaster", "text": "GingerMaster\n\nGingerMaster is malware that affects Android operating system version 2.3. It was first detected in August 2011.\n\nGingerMaster is Android malware that contains a root exploit packaged within an infected app.\n\nOnce the application is launched on an Android device, it acquires root privileges on the device and then accesses sensitive data.\n\nGingerMaster steals data such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24809459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24809459", "title": "Heroes of the Environment (2009)", "text": "Heroes of the Environment (2009)\n\nHeroes of the Environment is a list published in Time Magazine. The third list was published in September 2009. \n\nThe list contains 30 entries, individuals or groups, that have contributed substantially to the preservation of environment. It is divided into four categories: Leaders & Visionaries, Activists, Scientists & Innovators and Moguls & Entrepreneurs.\n\n"}
{"id": "18111999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18111999", "title": "Immigration from other South American countries to Brazil", "text": "Immigration from other South American countries to Brazil\n\nImmigration from other South American countries to Brazil refers to the movement of people from other South American countries to Brazil.\n\n"}
{"id": "9039042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9039042", "title": "Inter-racial and religious confidence circle", "text": "Inter-racial and religious confidence circle\n\nThe Inter-Racial and Religious Confidence Circles (IRCCs) are local-level inter-faith platforms in every constituency, formed to promote racial and religious harmony. The work of the IRCCs is instrumental in strengthening social cohesion and supports the SGSecure movement. \n\nThe Inter-Racial Confidence Circles (IRCCs) were formed in 2002 by then-Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong against the backdrop of the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States, and the arrest in December 2001 of 15 Jemaah Islamiyah members in Singapore who planned to bomb diplomatic missions and attack nationals of Australia, Israel, the United Kingdom and the United States based in Singapore. Re-positioned in 2006 to include religious organisations, the IRCCs serve as the local-level inter-faith platforms under the Community Engagement Programme (CEP) to respond quickly to incidents with racial and religious dimensions. Friendships and networks of trust are built during peace time to ensure that we can withstand challenges and strains on our social cohesion.\n\nThe IRCCs were officially renamed as “Inter-Racial and Religious Confidence Circles” on 7 Sep 2007. The acronym, IRCC, however, remained the same. The renaming signifies the IRCCs’ active promotion of inter-religious understanding and harmony.\n\nThe IRCCs serve as important bridges between religious, ethnic and community groups at the local level. Leaders from various religious, ethnic and other community organisations have come together to join the IRCC networks to build friendships and trust. The IRCCs also aim to deepen people's understanding of the various faiths, beliefs and practices through inter-faith and inter-ethnic themed activities such as inter-faith heritage trails, inter-faith talks and dialogues and various ethnic and religious celebrations. The IRCCs are also primed to respond quickly to incidents with racial and religious tensions and to project solidarity on the ground during crises.\n\nThrough the IRCC, Ministry of Culture, Community and Youth (MCCY) encourages leaders and their followers from religious organisations to join in the efforts to build networks of trust during peace time. MCCY is also actively involving the other ethnic and community organisations such as clan associations to participate in the IRCCs. In the aftermath of a crisis, they will be the key links to disseminate information, soothe and minimise communal tension, and maintain confidence in the community.\n\nIRCC members also keep track of grievances and complaints from the ground, thus giving them a unique understanding of local racial or religious sentiments. IRCCs also function as the main sources of information from the Government on the ground.\n\nA National Steering Committee (NSC) on IRCCs provides broad guidance for IRCCs to deepen inter-racial and inter-religious rapport within the community.\n\nThere are currently 89 IRCCs in Singapore, one for each constituency. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32942928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32942928", "title": "International Tiger Day", "text": "International Tiger Day\n\nGlobal Tiger Day, often called International Tiger Day, is an annual celebration to raise awareness for tiger conservation, held annually on 29 July. It was created in 2010 at the Saint Petersburg Tiger Summit. The goal of the day is to promote a global system for protecting the natural habitats of tigers and to raise public awareness and support for tiger conservation issues.\n\nThe seventh annual Global Tiger Day was celebrated in various ways around the world. Local events have been organized in Bangladesh, Nepal, and India as well as non-tiger-range countries such as England and the United States. Some celebrities also participated by removing their social media profile photos. WWF continued its promotion of the \"Double Tigers\" campaign through investing in rangers. Several companies partnered with WWF to help raise awareness.\nMore awareness in the entire world of tiger populations and the challenges for their conservationists. India counts the number of wild tigers every four year and show a promising rise from 1411 in 2006 to 2226 in 2014. According to WWF the world population in 2016 was ±3900. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5391050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5391050", "title": "Languages of Nigeria", "text": "Languages of Nigeria\n\nThere are perhaps 500 languages spoken in Nigeria. The official language of Nigeria is English, the former language of colonial British Nigeria. As reported in 2003, Nigerian English and Nigerian Pidgin were spoken as a second language by 60 million people in Nigeria. Communication in the English language is much more popular in the country's urban communities than it is in the rural areas, due to colonisation.\n\nThe major native languages, in terms of population, are Hausa (over 60 million, including L2), Yoruba (over 40 million), Igbo (about 30 million), Fulfulde (15 million), Ibibio (10 million), Kanuri (8 million), Tiv (4 million), and approx. 2 million each of Edo, Igala, Nupe, Izon and Berom. Nigeria's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of much of Africa as a whole, and the country contains languages from the three major African languages families: Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan and Niger–Congo. Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Centúúm, which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families.\n\nNiger–Congo predominates in the Central, East and Southern areas of Nigeria; the main branches represented in Nigeria are Mande, Atlantic, Gur, Kwa, Benue–Congo and Adamawa–Ubangi. Mande is represented by the Busa cluster and Kyenga in the northwest. Fulfulde is the single Atlantic language, of Senegambian origin but now spoken by cattle pastoralists across the Sahel and largely in the northeastern states of Nigeria, especially Adamawa.\n\nThe Ijoid languages are spoken across the Niger Delta and include Ịjọ (Ijaw), Kalabari, and the intriguing remnant language Defaka. The Efik language is spoken across the coastal southeastern part of Nigeria and includes the dialects Ibibio, Annang, and Efik proper. The single Gur language spoken is Baatọnun, in the extreme Northwest.\n\nThe Adamawa–Ubangian languages are spoken between central Nigeria and the Central African Republic. Their westernmost representatives in Nigeria are the Tula-Waja languages. The Kwa languages are represented by the Gun group in the extreme southwest, which is affiliated to the Gbe languages in Benin and Togo.\n\nThe classification of the remaining languages is controversial; Joseph Greenberg classified those without noun-classes, such as Yoruba, Igbo, and Ibibio (Efik, Ibibio, and Annang), as 'Eastern Kwa' and those with classes as 'Benue–Congo'. This was reversed in an influential 1989 publication and reflected on the 1992 map of languages, where all these were considered Benue–Congo. Recent opinion, however, has been to revert to Greenberg's distinction. The literature must thus be read with care and due regard for the date. There are several small language groupings in the Niger Confluence area, notably Ukaan, Akpes, Ayere-Ahan and Ọkọ, whose inclusion in these groupings has never been satisfactorily argued.\n\nFormer Eastern Kwa, i.e. West Benue–Congo would then include Igboid, i.e. Igbo language proper, Ukwuani, Ikwerre, Ekpeye etc., Yoruboid, i.e. Yoruba, Itsekiri and Igala, Akokoid (eight small languages in Ondo, Edo and Kogi state), Edoid including Edo (sometimes referred to as) Bini in Edo State, Ibibio-Efik, Idomoid (Idoma) and Nupoid (Nupe) and perhaps include the other languages mentioned above. The Idoma language is classified in the Akweya subgroup of the Idomoid languages of the Volta–Niger family, which include Alago, Agatu, Etulo and Yala languages of Benue, Nasarawa and Northern Cross River states.\n\nEast Benue–Congo includes Kainji, Plateau (46 languages, notably Gamai language), Jukunoid, Dakoid and Cross River. Apart from these, there are numerous Bantoid languages, which are the languages immediately ancestral to Bantu. These include Mambiloid, Ekoid, Bendi, Beboid, Grassfields and Tivoid languages.\n\nThe geographic distribution of Nigeria's Niger-Congo languages is not limited to the middle east and south-central Nigeria, as migration allows their spread to the linguistically Afro-Asiatic northern regions of Nigeria, as well as throughout West Africa and abroad. Igbo words such as 'unu' for 'you people', 'sooso' for 'only', 'obia' for 'native doctoring', etc. are used in patois of Jamaica and many Central American nations, Yoruba is spoken as a ritual language in cults such as the Santeria in the Caribbean and South-Central America, and the Berbice Dutch language in Surinam is based on an Ijoid language.\n\nEven the above listed linguistic diversity of the Niger–Congo in Nigeria is deceptively limiting, as these languages may further consist of regional dialects that may not be mutually intelligible. As such some languages, particularly those with a large number of speakers, have been standardized and received a romanized orthography. Nearly all languages appear in a Latin alphabet when written.\n\nThe Efik, Igbo, and Yoruba languages are notable examples of this process. The more historically recent standardization and romanization of Igbo have provoked even more controversy due to its dialectical diversity, but the Central Igbo dialect has gained the widest acceptance as the standard-bearer. Many such as Chinua Achebe have dismissed standardization as colonial and conservative attempts to simplify a complex mosaic of languages.\n\nSuch controversies typify inter- and intra-ethnic conflict endemic to post-colonial Nigeria. Also worthy of note is the Enuani dialect, a variation of the Igbo that is spoken among parts of Anioma. The Anioma are the Aniocha, Ndokwa/Ukwuani, Ika and Oshimilli of Delta state.\nStandard Yoruba came into being due to the work Samuel Crowther, the first African bishop of the Anglican Church and owes most of its lexicon to the dialects spoken in Ọyọ and Ibadan.\n\nSince Standard Yoruba's constitution was determined by a single author rather than by a consensual linguistic policy by all speakers, the Standard has been attacked regarding for failing to include other dialects and spurred debate as to what demarcates \"genuine Yoruba\".\nLinguistically speaking, all demonstrate the varying phonological features of the Niger–Congo family to which they belong, these include the use of tone, nasality, and particular consonant and vowel systems; more information is available here.\n\nThe Afroasiatic languages of Nigeria divide into Chadic, Semitic and Berber. Of these, Chadic languages predominate, with 700+ languages. Semitic is represented by various dialects of Arabic spoken in the Northeast and Berber by the Tuareg-speaking communities in the extreme Northwest.The Hausa language is the most well-known Chadic language in Nigeria mampoza; though there is a paucity of statistics on native speakers in Nigeria, the language is spoken by 24 million people in West Africa and is the second language of 15 million more. Hausa has therefore emerged as \"lingua franca\" throughout much of West Africa and the Sahel in particular. The language is spoken primarily amongst Muslims, and the language is often associated with Islamic culture in Nigeria and West Africa on the whole.\n\nHausa is classified as a West Chadic language of the Chadic grouping, a major subfamily of Afroasiatic. Culturally, the Hausa people have become closely integrated with the Fulani following the establishment of the Sokoto Caliphate by the Fulani Uthman dan Fodio in the 19th century. Hausa is the official language of a number states in Northern Nigeria and the most important dialect is generally regarded as that spoken in Kano, an Eastern Hausa dialect, which is the standard variety used for official purposes.\n\nEastern dialects also include some dialects spoken in Zaria, and Bauchi; Western Hausa dialects include Sakkwatanchi spoken in Sokoto, Katsinanchi in Katsina Arewanchi in both Gobir and Adar, Kebbi, and Zamfara. Katsina is transitional between Eastern and Western dialects. Northern Hausa dialects include Arewa and Arawa, while Zaria is a prominent Southern tongue version; Barikanchi is a pidgin formerly used in the military.\n\nHausa is a highly atypical Chadic language, with a reduced tonal system and a phonology influenced by Arabic. Other well-known Chadic languages include Ngas, Goemai, Mwaghavul, Bole, Ngizim, Bade and Bachama. In the East of Nigeria and on into Cameroun are the Central Chadic languages, such as Bura, the Higi cluster and Marghi. These are highly diverse and remain very poorly described. Many Chadic languages are severely threatened; recent searches by Bernard Caron for Southern Bauchi languages show that even some of those recorded in the 1970s have disappeared. However, unknown Chadic languages are still being reported, witness the recent description of Dyarim.\n\nHausa, as well as other Afroasiatic languages like Bade (another West Chadic language spoken in Yobe State), have historically been written in a modified Arabic script known as \"ajami\", however, the modern official orthography is now a romanization known as \"boko\" first introduced by the British regime in the 1930s.\n\nThe Nilosaharan language family is represented by Kanuri and Kanembu in the Northeastern part of Nigeria in the states of Borno, Yobe and parts of Jigawa and Bauchi states, as well as Zarma or Zabarma and Dendi spoken in the northwestern state of Kebbi near the border with the neighbouring country of Niger.\n\nThis is a non-exhaustive list of Languages in Nigeria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4917537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4917537", "title": "Luwati language", "text": "Luwati language\n\nLuwati (Al-Lawatia (Arabic: اللواتية, sing. Lawati), also known as Lawatiyya, Lawatiya, Hyderabadi, Khoja or Khojki) is an Indo-Aryan language spoken by 5,000 to 10,000 people known as the Lawatiya (also called the Khojas or Hyderabadis) in the country of Oman. In total it has been estimated there are 20,000 to 30,000 Lawatiya people. Despite the various names, the Lawatiya refer to the language as Khojki. It is considered an endangered language because a portion of the Lawatiya do not speak Luwati, and it is not continuously passed down to younger generations.\n\nThe Luwati language is superficially similar to Kutchi, but retains sounds found in other Sindhi languages and Saraiki but that have been lost from Kutchi. Luwati also bares similarities with other languages such as Sindhi, Kachichi, Gujarati, Hindustani and Persian. As with other languages located in Oman, Luwati is influenced by the Omani dialect of Arabic.\n\nOriginating from the Pakistani town of Sindh, the Luwati language has had a presence in Oman for nearly four centuries. The language and people were first mentioned historically by the Omani historian Ibn Ruzayq. The Lawatiya appeared to have settled in Oman in waves of immigration from Sindh between 1780 and 1880 bringing the language with them.\n\nLuwati is a minority language found in Oman specifically in the capital of Muscat as well as in the coastal towns of Saham, Barka, Khabura, and Musana. It is spoken by 5,000 to 10,000 people.\n\nLuwati consists of 37 consonants, 10 vowels, and 3 diphthongs. Usually the world-level stress falls on the first syllable however in loan words from Arabic, it retains its original stress position.\n\nBelow is a chart of Luwati consonants:\nLuwati consists of 10 oral long and short vowels: /i, ɪ, e, ɛ, a, ɘ, ə, u, ʊ, o/.\n\nIt consists of three diphthongs as well. They are: /a͡ɪ, a͡ʊ, ɔ͡ɪ/.\n\nLuwati no longer has a writing system and is only a spoken language.\n"}
{"id": "12577876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12577876", "title": "Malto language", "text": "Malto language\n\nMalto or Paharia or, rarely, archaically, Rajmahali is a Northern Dravidian language spoken primarily in East India.\n\nThere are two varieties of Malto that are sometimes regarded as separate languages, Kumarbhag Paharia (Devanagari: कुमारभाग पहाड़िया) and Sauria Paharia (Devanagari: सौरिया पहाड़िया). The former is spoken in the Jharkhand and West Bengal states of India, and tiny pockets of Orissa state, and the latter in the West Bengal states of India, and some pockets of Bangladesh. The lexical similarity between the two is estimated to be 80%.\n\nAlthough there is a high lexical similarity between the two languages, inherent intelligibility is inadequate. The similarities of the two sister languages do not translate into their current states being comparable. For instance, Sauria Paharia has thousands more speakers of the language and thus can sustain four different dialects: Litipara, Godda, Hiranpur, and Sahibganj. Since the population of speakers of Kumarbhag Paharia is relatively miniature, the language has no prominent dialects. However, the language, where used, is used in all domains and the speakers have a positive attitude about the cultural ties of the language as well as its continued existence.\n\nMal Paharia language may have a Malto-based substrate.\n\nThe 2001 census found 224,926 speakers of Malto, of which 83,050 were labelled as speaking Pahariya, and 141,876 spoke other mother tongues (dielects).\n\nMalto has a typical Dravidian vowel system of 10 vowels: /a, e, i, o, u/ and their lengthened forms. Malto also does not have any vowel clusters or dipthongs.\n\nThe general grammar of the language is not dissimilar from that of the surrounding communities. One interesting aspect of their culture influencing the syntax of the language is present in its assignment of gender to nouns.\n\nThe gender of words in the Malto language is classified as either being masculine, feminine, or neutral. The masculine form is present when denoting anything related to man or vicious deities. Likewise the feminine form is present for nouns denoting women, the Supreme Being, and minor deities. Although the colloquial term for father 'abba' is a traditionally feminine noun, it is meant to show respect. Coupled with the Supreme Being also being feminine, the respect for the women of the community is evident through their grammar. Otherwise nouns are referred to with neutral gender, which by far makes it the most popular form.\n\nSeeing as how the literacy rates amongst the Malto people is very low, it makes sense that the language is not a traditionally written language. When the language had first been memorialized in writing (by Ernest Droese in 1884) it shared the Devanagari writing system as with many languages in India. The written portion of the language being supplemented much later on in its life, gives the effect of Malto remaining authentic through the dialogue of their culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6114756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6114756", "title": "Mingei", "text": "Mingei\n\n, the Japanese folk art movement, was developed in the late 1920s and 1930s in Japan. Its founding father was Yanagi Sōetsu (1889–1961).\n\nIn 1916, Yanagi made his first trip to Korea out of a curiosity for Korean crafts. The trip led to the establishment of the Korean Folk Crafts Museum in 1924, and the coining of the term \"mingei\" by Yanagi, potters Hamada Shōji (1894–1978) and Kawai Kanjirō (1890–1966). In 1926, the Folk Art Movement was formally declared by Yanagi Sōetsu. Yanagi rescued lowly pots used by commoners in the Edo and Meiji period that were disappearing in rapidly urbanizing Japan. In 1936, the Japanese Folk Crafts Museum was established.\n\nThe philosophical pillar of \"mingei\" is \"hand-crafted art of ordinary people\" (). Yanagi Sōetsu discovered beauty in everyday ordinary and utilitarian objects created by nameless and unknown craftsmen. According to Yanagi, utilitarian objects made by the common people are \"beyond beauty and ugliness\". Below are a few criteria of \"mingei\" art and crafts:\n\n\nYanagi's book \"The Unknown Craftsman\" has become an influential work since its first release in English in 1972. Yanagi's book examines the Japanese way of viewing and appreciating art and beauty in everyday crafts, including ceramics, lacquer, textiles, and woodwork.\n\nIn recent decades, scholars such as Yuko Kikuchi and Brian Moeran have claimed they have uncovered power relations and ultra-nationalism that lie at the core of the formation of \"mingei\" theory. In 1927, Yanagi put forward the \"criterion of beauty in Japan\" ( ') in \"The Way of Crafts\" ( '). During the years of rising militarism in Japan, Sōetsu Yanagi extended his application of the \"criterion of beauty\" to the crafts of the Okinawans and the Ainu in the Japanese peripheries, and to those of the colonies including Korea, Taiwan and Manchuria. These scholars argue that \"mingei\" theory, far from being an Oriental theory, is a \"hybridization\" and \"appropriation\" of Occidental ideas such as that of William Morris (1834–1896) which Bernard Leach (1887–1979) introduced when he lived and worked in Japan from 1909 to 1920. Whereas in Leach's view, he had helped Japanese artists to rediscover their original, Oriental culture, Japan applied Orientalism to its own art and projected the same Orientalism to the art of other Far Eastern countries such as Korea. Yūko Kikuchi terms this phenomenon \"Oriental Orientalism\".\n\nYanagi’s \"Korea and its Art\" was severely criticized by Korean intellectuals as a \"colonialist view of history\" in 1974. Yanagi defined \"beauty of sadness\" ( ') as the \"innate, original beauty created by the Korean race\" ( '). Yanagi believed that the long history of foreign invasions of Korea was reflected in Korean art, and especially in its pottery, in the \"sad and lonely\" lines. Such a theory has been criticized by Korean scholars as the \"aesthetic of colonialism\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4140740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4140740", "title": "Minorities in Iraq", "text": "Minorities in Iraq\n\nMinorities in Iraq include various ethnic and religious groups.\n\nKurds are an Indo-European people of the Iranian branch. Ethnically and linguistically they are most closely related to Iranians and have existed in Iraq since before the Arab-Islamic conquest. They are possibly descended from the ancient Corduene.\n\nThe majority of Kurds are Sunni Muslims, with Shia and Alevi Muslim minorities. There are also a significant number of adherents to native Kurdish/Iranian religions like Yarsanism. Some Kurdish Communists and Socialists are Atheist.\n\nUnder the Kingdom of Iraq, Kurdish leader Mustafa Barzani led a rebellion against the central government in Baghdad in 1945. After the failure of the uprising Barzānī and his followers fled to the Soviet Union. In the 1960s, when Iraqi Brigadier Abdul-Karim Qassem distanced himself from Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser, he faced growing opposition from pro-Egypt officers in the Iraqi army. When the garrison in Mosul rebelled against Qassem's policies, he allowed Barzānī to return from exile to help suppress the pro-Nasser rebels. By 1961, Barzānī and the Kurds began a full-scale rebellion.\n\nWhen the Ba'ath Party took power in Iraq, the new government, in order to end the Kurdish revolt, granted the Kurds their own limited autonomy. However, for various reasons, including the pro-Iranian sympathies of some Kurds during the Iran–Iraq War in the 1980s, the regime implemented anti-Kurdish policies and a \"de facto\" civil war broke out. From March 29, 1987 until April 23, 1989, the infamous Al-Anfal campaign, a systematic genocide of the Kurdish people in Iraq, was launched. For this, Iraq was widely condemned by the international community, but was never seriously punished for oppressive measures, including the use of chemical weapons against the Kurds, which resulted in thousands of deaths.\n\nAfter the Persian Gulf War, the Kurds began another uprising against the Ba'athists. The revolt was violently put down. During the same year, Turkey, fighting Kurds on its on territory, bombed Kurdish areas in Northern Iraq, claiming that bases for the terrorist Kurdistan Workers Party were located in the region. However, the 2003 invasion of Iraq and the fall of Saddam, brought renewed hope to the Kurds. The newly elected Iraqi government agreed to re-establish the Kurdistan Regional Government in Northern Iraq. The Kurds have since been working towards developing the area and pushing for democracy in the country. However, most Kurds overwhelmingly favor becoming an independent nation. \"In the January 2005 Iraqi elections, 98.7 percent of Kurds voted for full independence rather than reconciliation with Arab Iraq.\" Almost no other political or social group in the region is agreeable to the idea of Kurdish independence. Iraq's neighboring countries such as Turkey are particularly opposed to the movement because they fear that an independent Iraqi Kurdistan would strengthen Kurdish independence movements in their own territories.\n\nNouri al-Maliki was at loggerheads with the leader of ethnic Kurds, who brandished the threat of secession in a growing row over the symbolic issue of flying the Iraqi national flag at government buildings in the autonomous Kurdish north. Maliki's Arab Shi'ite-led government was locked in a dispute with the autonomous Kurdish regional government, which has banned the use of the Iraqi state flag on public buildings. The prime minister issued a blunt statement on Sunday saying: \"The Iraqi flag is the only flag that should be raised over any square inch of Iraq.\" But Mesud Barzani, president of the Iraqi Kurdistan region, told the Kurdish parliament the national leadership were \"failures\" and that the Iraqi flag was a symbol of his people's past oppression by Baghdad: \"If at any moment we, the Kurdish people and parliament, consider that it is in our interests to declare independence, we will do so and we will fear no one.\" The dispute exposes a widening rift between Arabs and Kurds, the second great threat to Iraq's survival as a state after the growing sectarian conflict between Arab Sunnis and Shi'ites.\n\nThe Iraqi Turkmen/Turkoman are the third largest ethnic group in the country, after the Arabs and Kurds. They mostly adhere to a Turkish heritage and identity, this is because most Iraqi Turkmen/Turkoman are the descendants of the Ottoman soldiers, traders and civil servants who were brought into Iraq from Anatolia during the rule of the Ottoman Empire. Since the demise of the Ottoman Empire, the Iraqi Turkmen/Turkoman have found themselves increasingly discriminated against from the policies of successive regimes, such as the Kirkuk Massacre of 1923, 1947, 1959, and in 1979 when the Ba'th Party discriminated against the community. Although the Turks were recognized as a constitutive entity of Iraq (alongside the Arabs and Kurds) in the constitution of 1925, the Iraqi Turkmen/Turkoman were later denied this status. \n\nAccording to the 1957 Iraqi census the Turkmen/Turkoman had a population of 567,000, accounting for 9% of the total Iraqi population. By 2013, the Iraqi Ministry of Planning said that there was 3 million Turkmen/Turkoman, out of a population of 34.7 million, forming 8.65% of the population. The Turkmen/Turkoman minority mainly reside in northern and central Iraq, in the so-called Turkmeneli region – which is a political term used by the Turkmen/Turkoman to define the vast swath of territory in which they have historically had a dominant population. In particular, the Turkmen/Turkoman consider the capital of Turkmeneli to be Kirkuk and its boundaries also include Tel Afar, Mosul, Erbil, Mandali, and Tuz Khurmato. According to Liam Anderson and Gareth Stansfield, the Turkmen/Turkoman note that the term \"Turcomania\" – an Anglicized version of \"Turkmeneli\" – appears on a map of the region published by William Guthrie in 1785, however, there is no clear reference to Turkmeneli until the end of the twentieth century. According to Khalil Osman there has been \"a raft of federalist schemes\" proposed by various Turkmen/Turkoman political parties.\nThe Iraqi Turkmen/Turkoman share close cultural and linguistic ties with Turkey, particularly the Anatolian region. They are predominately Muslims, formed of a majority Sunni population (about 60%-70%) but there is also a significant number of Turkmen/Turkoman practicing the Shia branch of Islam (about 30% to 40%). Nonetheless, the Turkmen are mainly secular, having internalized the secularist interpretation practiced in the Republic of Turkey. The minority speak their own dialect of Turkish, which is often called \"Turkmen\". This dialect was influenced by Ottoman Turkish from 1534 onwards, but also by Persian during the brief capture of Baghdad in 1624; thereafter, in 1640, the Turkish varieties continued to be influenced by Ottoman Turkish, as well as other languages in the region, such as Arabic and Kurdish. Some linguists have suggested that the dialect spoken by Turkmen/Turkoman is similar to the South Azeri dialect used by the Turkish Yörük tribes in the Balkans and Anatolia. However, the Turkmen/Turkoman dialect is particularly close to the Turkish dialects of Diyarbakır and Urfa in south-eastern Turkey and Istanbul Turkish has long been the prestige dialect which has exerted a profound historical influence on their dialect. In addition, the Iraqi Turkmen/Turkoman grammar \"differs sharply\" from Irano-Turkic varieties, such as South Azeri and Afshar types. In 1997 the Turkmen/Turkoman adopted the Turkish alphabet as the formal written language and by 2005 the community leaders decided that the Turkish language would replace the Arabic script in Iraqi schools. The current prevalence of satellite television and media exposure from Turkey may have also led to the standardisation of Turkmeni towards Turkish, and the preferable language for adolescents associating with the Turkish culture.\n\nChristianity has a presence in Iraq dating to the 1st century AD. The Christian community in Iraq is relatively small, and further dwindled due to the Iraq War to just several thousands. Most Christians in Iraq belong traditionally to Syriac Orthodox as well the Chaldean Church and the Assyrian Church of the East, and are concentrated in small cities in the Nineveh Plains, such as Alqosh, Tel Keppe, and Bartella.\n\nThe Aramaic-speaking Assyrians/Chaldeans are the indigenous people of Iraq and descendants of those who ruled ancient Akkad, Assyria and Babylonia. More generally speaking, the Assyrians (like the Mandeans) are descendants of the ancient Mesopotamians (Sumer, Akkad, Assyria, Babylon, Adiabene, Osroene and Hatra). They speak dialects of the Aramaic of the Assyrian and Babylonian Empires and have their own written script. They began to convert to Christianity in the 1st and 2nd centuries AD formerly having followed the ancient Sumerian-Akkadian religion (also known as Ashurism). There are believed to be no more than 500,000 Assyrians remaining in Iraq, with a large concentration in the diaspora. They are Iraq's third largest ethnic group after the Arabs and the Kurds.\n\nThe Assyrian minority came under persecution during Saddam Hussein's Ba'athist regime. When Hussein first assumed power, the Assyrian population there numbered 2 million to 2.5 million. Many have fled to neighboring countries such as Jordan and Syria, or have emigrated to Europe and the U.S. The United Nations High Commission for Refugees reports that half a million Iraqi Christians have registered for temporary asylum in Syria. Assyrians have traditionally made good soldiers, during the Iran–Iraq War, many were recruited to the armies of both sides.\n\nCurrently, Assyrians face persecution from Kurds, as Kurdification attempts at Assyrian cities are in progress. This was after the Kurdish takeover of Assyrian towns in the Kurdistan region (such as Zakho, Ainkawa, Aqrah, etc.) and the forceful deportation and killing of Christians in that area.\n\nThe Assyrian Security force Nineveh Plain Protection Units Currently run the security in many Towns and Villages in the Nineveh plains\n\nThe Armenians are Orthodox Christians. Armenians have a long history of association with Mesopotamia, going back to pre-Christian times. The Armenians have historically been a thriving community in Iraq with football clubs (Nadi Armeni) and other establishments. Armenian folk music and dance is admired in Iraq. Most Iraqi Armenians live in Baghdad, Mosul, and Basra and their population is estimated at around 10,000 down from 70,000 before the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\nThe Iraqis of largely African descent live mostly around the city of Basra, having been brought to the region as slaves over one thousand years ago to work the sugarcane plantations then in existence. Although they are Muslims and Arabic-speakers, Afro-Iraqis also retain some cultural and religious traditions from their ancestral homeland. They suffer considerable discrimination due to their behaviour, and, as a result, are restricted to working as entertainers or menial laborers. Moreover, they are often addressed by other Iraqis as \"'abd\", meaning \"slave\". In the mid-9th century, black slaves around Basra rose in a rebellion, conquering their former masters and ruling the city for 15 years before being put down by forces sent by the Caliph in Baghdad. After the fall of the Saddam Hussein regime, Afro-Iraqis have once again begun to struggle for an improvement in their condition.\n\nFeylis are a distance ethnic Kurdish group who live near the Iraq-Iran border\\ outside of Iraqi Kurdistan and are considered a stateless people.\n\nAlthough historically significant, the Jewish community of Iraq today numbers fewer than 4 people. Almost all Iraqi Jews were transferred to Israel in the early 1950s in Operation Ezra and Nehemiah.\n\nMandaeans (also known as Subbi and Sabians) are one of the smallest ethno-religious groups in the world with only about 75,000 followers worldwide. Historically speaking, the Mandaeism is one of the ancient religions of Mesopotamia and one of the earlier known monothestic religions, along with Abrahamic faiths and Zoroastrianism. Mandeans (like the Assyrians) are of indigenous ancient Mesopotamian heritage, and speak their own dialect of Aramaic, known as Mandaic. They are a Semitic people.\n\nThe Iraq Mandaean (and Sabian) community, in the pre 1990 gulf war period, was the most important in the world with 30,000–50,000 of the 70,000 total living in the country mainly in the area around the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Mandaeans although an ethnic and religious minority, consider themselves Iraqi and have supported the Iraqi nation patriotically, serving in the army during various conflicts. They were considered an economically successful community, and had achieved high levels in Iraqi society, and are held in high regard as silversmiths and goldsmiths.\n\nThe Marsh Arabs or Ma'dãn are a group of Arabs who number 125,000 to 150,000 who live in the Mesopotamian Marshes in southern Iraq.\n\nThe Kaka'is are a small Kurdish religious group who located mainly in and around Kirkuk in northern Iraq.\n\nThere are about 60,000–400,000 Shabaks in Iraq. They are an ethnic and religious minority, retaining their own distinct Pre Islamic religion. They are an Indo-European (Aryan) people and speak an Indo-European language with elements of Turkish and Arabic infused. Despite having their own language and culture unique from other groups, Kurdish authorities have attempted to Kurdify the Shabaks by occupying Shabak villages and referring to them as \"Kurdish Shabaks\". In 2005, two Assyrians were killed and four Shabaks were wounded by the KDP during a demonstration organized by the Democratic Shabak Coalition, a group which wants separate representation for the Shabak community.\n\nIraq's Roma (Kawliya) ethnic minority was looked down upon as second-class citizens under Ba'ath party rule.\n\nToday, there are around 650,000 Yezidis in Iraq who come from northern Iraq. They speak Aramaic but they also speak Kurmanji. The Ezidis are believed to be the ancient Sumerians. They have their own distinct religion which combines distinct aspects of Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Mithraism, Mandaeans and Zoroastrianism, though its origins are not understood. Most speak Kurdish, but some speak Arabic. They live primarily in the Nineveh Province of Iraq, and in Armenia, Russia, United States and Germany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35134245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35134245", "title": "Muellama language", "text": "Muellama language\n\nMuellama (Muellamués) is an extinct Barbacoan language of Colombia.\n"}
{"id": "10799131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10799131", "title": "Mushtaq Leghari", "text": "Mushtaq Leghari\n\nSardar Mushtaq Ahmed Khan Laghari is from Rahimabad. He was born in Choti Zareen. He is the son of Sardar Mohammad Akbar Khan Laghari. His paternal grandfather was Sardar Noor Mohammed Khan Leghari, founder of Rahimabad. His maternal grandfather was Khan Bahadur Nawab Sardar Din Mohammed Khan Leghari, Leghari Tumandar.\n\nSardar Mushtaq Ahmed Khan Laghari started his education from the Convent School in Multan and later joined Aitchison Chief's College in junior school. He graduated from Aitchison College as Best Leaving Boy from Godley House in 1962 to join the Pakistan Air Force Academy in Risalpur.\n\nSardar Mushtaq Ahmed Khan Laghari got his commission as a fighter pilot in the Pakistan Air Force. He was the Wing Under Officer (WUO) of his graduating course. In the Air Force, he rose to the rank of Air Vice Marshal. In 1997 he decided to accept a diplomatic appointment and became Pakistan's Ambassador to the UAE. \n\nAfter retirement from active service, Sardar Mushtaq Ahmed Khan Laghari has been elected President of PAFROA (Pakistan Air Force Retired Officers Association) in Lahore, Pakistan. \n\nIn his years of service with the Pakistan Air Force, he saw action in the 1965 war and the 1971 war between Pakistan and India. A highly decorated officer of the Pakistan Air Force, he was known in the Air Force for his leadership, generosity, bravery, honesty, integrity, and fighter flying skills of the highest caliber. \n\nWhile serving with the Air Force he commanded a fighter squadron, a fighter wing, a fighter base, one of the three Air Commands of the PAF, and also served as a Principal Staff Officer/Deputy Chief of the Air Staff at the Air Headquarters. In the course of his career with the PAF he also served on deputation with the Syrian Arab Air Force and the UAE Air Force in Senior Combat & Command positions.\n\nSardar Mushtaq Ahmed Khan Laghari enjoys playing Golf and looking after his agricultural lands. In addition, since retirement from active service, he has been elected President of PAFROA (Pakistan Air Force Retired Officers Association) in Lahore, Pakistan. \n"}
{"id": "44021609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44021609", "title": "Nabozny v. Podlesny", "text": "Nabozny v. Podlesny\n\nNabozny v. Podlesny, 92 F.3d 446 (7th Cir. 1996) was a case heard in the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit regarding the protection of a school student in Ashland, Wisconsin, who had been harassed and bullied by classmates because of his sexual orientation. The plaintiff in the case—Jamie Nabozny—sought damages from school officials for their failure to protect him from the bullying. A jury found that this failure violated Nabozny's constitutional rights and awarded him $962,000 in damages.\n\nJamie Nabozny (born October 1975) went to the local public middle school in the small Wisconsin town of Ashland, where his parents Bob and Carol Nabozny had grown up. His parents had a rocky relationship, which wasn't helped by poverty. In spite of this, he managed to do well in school. Bullies at Nabozny's school believed him to be effeminate and \"girlish\" and bullied him. The harassment reached a point where at age 13, Nabozny complained to his parents who decided to send him to live with an uncle and aunt temporarily who would homeschool him. Nabozny's aunt consoled him for the bullying and he shared with her the secret that he was gay but this disclosure did not fit with her religious beliefs. Nabozny ran away, and his aunt informed the police who investigated his running away and in the course of their investigation disclosed Nabozny's sexuality to his parents. His mother Carol was supportive and loving, but his father Bob reacted in anger, storming out of the room after telling Jamie that it was simply a phase.\n\nNabozny's return to middle school led to the harassment recommencing. He told a school counselor that he had been called a \"queer\", a \"faggot\" and a \"fudge packer\" among other terms and confirmed to the counselor that he was indeed gay and did not wish to deny this. The counselor attempted to intervene and get the bullies to stop but it resumed shortly after the intervention. A new counselor arrived at the school who also attempted to make the bullying stop by involving the school principal, Mary Podlesny. Despite the intervention of the principal, the abuse soon resumed and now started including physical violence—hits, kicks and elbows.\n\nIn addition to Nabozny's sexual orientation, another fact led into his bullying. At age 11, Jamie Nabozny was molested by an 18-year-old church youth group leader named Nick Rising. He kept this abuse secret until Rising attempted to molest Jamie's younger brother. Rising was arrested, pleaded guilty at trial and went to jail. The scandal was reported in a local newspaper. A number of the bullies who were harassing Nabozny were friendly with Rising and blamed Nabozny for reporting the sexual assaults.\n\nNabozny's parents complained repeatedly about the bullying but after no action was taken by the principal, they pulled Jamie out of school and transferred him to a Catholic middle school to finish seventh grade. The cost of the tuition fees meant that he dropped out shortly after starting eighth grade. Jamie Nabozny had to return to the middle school where he endured more harassment, homophobic language and physical violence. In one incident, Jamie and his brother Corey were physically assaulted by a group of boys in the bathrooms.\n\nFollowing this harassment, Bob and Carol Nabozny complained again to the school and demanded a meeting with the Principal. At the meeting with the Nabozny family and a number of the boys who Jamie had accused of bullying, the Principal took the word of the bullies and then also later told Jamie Nabozny that if he continued to be out about his sexual orientation at school, the bullying would continue. The bullies faced no disciplinary actions and the harassment continued. Following a number of bullies verbally abusing him, inappropriately touching him and then enacting a mock rape while the rest of his class watched, Nabozny went to the principal who told him that \"boys will be boys\" and admonished him for entering her office without an appointment. The continued bullying at middle school led to Nabozny attempting suicide, after which he refused to return to middle school.\n\nAt high school, the same bullies returned and the harassment continued. At one point, Nabozny was attacked while at a urinal and urinated upon by another boy. William Davis, the principal at the high school continued the inaction—the perpetrators were not disciplined and the only advice Davis gave to Nabozny was to go home to change his clothes. He attempted suicide for a second time.\n\nNabozny's parents attempted to send him to live with an aunt and uncle in Drummond, Wisconsin, but his uncle was hostile to his homosexuality, leading him to run away from them and hitch-hike to Minneapolis. Bob and Carol Nabozny attempted to find him in Minneapolis and distributed 'missing child' posters. Nabozny phoned the number listed on one of the posters and was reunited with his parents. Nabozny told his parents that he refused to return to the high school. They sought to homeschool him but were legally forbidden as neither had a high school diploma. They could not afford to send him to a private school, and the only private school nearby was a Christian fundamentalist school. The school district demanded that Jamie return to high school, where the bullying started again.\n\nNabozny's parents requested the local social services department put him into foster care out of the district so he could attend school elsewhere. At the new school, the bullying that Nabozny suffered was promptly resolved by the school. The new school seemed to boost his happiness and self-confidence as well as his grades. The social worker who had moved Nabozny demanded that he move back to his parents during tenth grade. He then had to return to the high school in Ashland, where the bullying restarted. The school continued to ignore the bullying and assistant principal Thomas Blaumert told Nabozny that his harassment was due to him provoking them and that he deserved the punishment because of his sexuality. Blaumert also laughed when Nabozny was pushed and tripped in the hallway.\n\nFor over four years, no school official took any disciplinary action in response to Nabozny's reports. In the eleventh grade, he was attacked in the school library by a group of boys, one of whom repeatedly kicked him in the stomach which caused him to have pain and a stomach cramp for weeks. The internal bleeding and bruising required surgery.\n\nIn December 1992, Nabozny collected together over $100 in cash and ran away from Ashland and took a bus to Minneapolis. In Minneapolis, he moved in with a gay church deacon and his partner who served as foster parents. He was diagnosed with depression and post traumatic stress disorder and spent years in therapy. Eventually, he completed his GED and became a student at the University of Minnesota and studied for a degree in psychology.\n\nNabozny decided to sue the school district and was represented by Lambda Legal, an LGBT legal organisation. They had made a policy decision in 1995 to take cases involving youth issues. Nabozny was represented by Patricia Logue, a lawyer (and lesbian) who had previously worked in corporate law before taking a job with Lambda in Chicago in 1993 along with Michael Terrien an attorney with Skadden Arps Meagher and Flom LLP. She had previously helped a black LGBT group change the policy of the Bud Billiken Parade in Chicago.\n\nThe case was brought against the school district as well as a number of the school officials. Nabozny's lawyers argued that his rights under the Fourteenth Amendment to equal protection and due process had been violated by the school's failure to protect him as a member of a discernible minority group, namely gay people. They also argued that his rights under Wisconsin law to not be discriminated against were violated by the school district. The plaintiffs also pointed to the existence of school anti-harassment policies and argued that they were being enforced in a discriminatory manner: when sexist abuse was reported by female students, it was quickly stopped by school officials in a way they did not do for homophobic bullying.\n\nThe District Court made a summary judgment in favor of the school district. Nabozny appealed to the Seventh Circuit federal appeals court which found that the school district had infringed his equal protection rights on the grounds of combined gender and sexual orientation discrimination, but rejected the due process claim.\n\nJudge Jesse E. Eschbach concluded in his judgment:\n\nCatherine A. Lugg, a professor of education at Rutgers University, said that the facts of the case \"clearly illustrates the public school's historic power as the \"enforcer\" of expected norms regarding gender, heteronormativity and homophobia\" and also shows \"how devastating a homophobic public school culture can be for queer children\".\n\nIn 1997, the Department of Education clarified that Title IX requires schools to provide students with an environment free of harassment and that this requirement includes gay and lesbian students.\n\nSince the \"Nabozny\" case, other students who have brought similar cases have generally won. Such cases include:\n\n"}
{"id": "34525604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34525604", "title": "National Libraries Day", "text": "National Libraries Day\n\nNational Libraries Day is an annual event in the UK dedicated to the celebration of libraries and librarians. The inaugural event was held on 4 February 2012.\n\nTo celebrate National Libraries Day, events including author talks and competitions are organised across the country by local authorities, universities, other providers of library services and local community groups.\n\nChannel 4's Culture Editor, Matthew Cain, described the 2012 National Libraries Day as \"most important\" due to the \"serious concern about the future for libraries\".\n\nChildren's Laureate Julia Donaldson released a poem to mark the day, adding that if we \"lose libraries, we would lose readers and we would become a less literate country\".\n\nThe 2013 event was scheduled to take place on 9 February 2013.\n\nFollowing Save our Libraries Day in 2011, author and library campaigner Alan Gibbons proposed that the first day in February be made National Libraries Day after receiving emails suggesting that there should be a chance to \"celebrate our libraries\".\n\nOn 25 May 2011, Gibbons announced that:\n\nIn support of the first National Libraries Day, a book was published featuring a number of authors contributing their thoughts on why they think libraries matter. The book features contributions from Alan Bennett, Julian Barnes and Stephen Fry, with all the proceeds going to The Reading Agency to aid their work supporting libraries.\n\nNational Libraries Day is supported by a range of organisations including:\n\n"}
{"id": "9115454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9115454", "title": "National War Finance Committee", "text": "National War Finance Committee\n\nThe National War Finance Committee was set up in Canada in December 1941 by the Department of Finance. It was initially chaired by George Wilbur Spinney, president of the Bank of Montreal, and later by Graham Towers, the Governor of the Bank of Canada. The Committee was responsible for raising war financing through the sale of Victory Bonds. Prior to the Committee's establishment, war financing was the responsibility of the Department of Finance.\n"}
{"id": "33403314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33403314", "title": "Ndaka people", "text": "Ndaka people\n\nThe Ndaka people (of Ndaaka) are an ethnic group of the northeastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, many of whom live in the Mambasa Territory of the Ituri Province.\n\nAll young Ndaka men had to be initiated to be become full adult members of the tribe.\nThe ceremonies are held every six years or so, and involve traditional songs and dances.\nIn some of these special instruments are used, and masked ritualists act out prescribed roles dressed in full costume.\n"}
{"id": "855296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855296", "title": "Nuer people", "text": "Nuer people\n\nThe Nuer people are a Nilotic ethnic group primarily inhabiting the Nile Valley. They are concentrated in South Sudan, with some also found in southwestern Ethiopia. They speak the Nuer language, which belongs to the Nilo-Saharan family. As one of the largest ethnic groups in southern Sudan, the Nuer people are pastoralist who herd cattle for a living. The cattle of the Nuer people serve as companions and a lifestyle. However, they refer to themselves as \"Nath\". The Nuer people have historically been under-counted as a result of the semi-nomadic lifestyle in which the community engages, as well as a lack of proper national census information about the community. In addition, the Nuer also have a culture of counting only older members of the family. For example, the Nuer believes that counting the number of children one has could result in misfortune and the community prefer to report fewer number of children when in fact they have many children.\n\nThe nature of relations among the various southern Sudanese tribes was greatly affected in the 19th century by the intrusion of the British. Some ethnic groups made their accommodation with the colonizers and others did not, in effect pitting one southern ethnic group against another in the context of foreign rule. For example, some sections of the Dinka supported colonial rule which was resisted by the Nuer. The Dinka treated the resisting Nuer as hostile, and hostility developed between the two groups as a result of their differing relationships to the British.\n\nThere are different accounts of the origin of the conflict between the Nuer and the Dinka, South Sudan's two largest ethnic groups. Anthropologist Peter J. Newcomer suggests that neither the Nuer nor the Dinka are intrusive and that the Nuer are actually Dinka. He argues that hundreds of years of population growth created expansion, which eventually led to raids and wars.\n\nIn 2006, the Nuer were the tribe that resisted disarmament most strongly. Members of the Nuer White Army, a group of armed youths often autonomous of tribal elders' authority, refused to lay down their weapons, which led SPLA soldiers to confiscate Nuer cattle, destroying their economy. The White Army was finally put down in mid-2006, though a successor organisation self-styling itself as a White Army formed in 2011 to fight the Murle tribe (see 2011–2012 South Sudan tribal clashes), as well as the Dinka and UNMISS.\n\nCattle have historically been of the highest symbolic, religious and economic value among the Nuer. Sharon Hutchinson notes that \"...among Nuer people the difference between people and cattle were continually underplayed.\" Cattle are particularly important in their role as bride wealth, where they are given by a husband's lineage to his wife's lineage. It is this exchange of cattle which ensures that the children will be considered to belong to the husband's lineage and to his line of descent. The classical Nuer institution of ghost marriage, in which a man can \"father\" children after his death, is based on this ability of cattle exchanges to define relations of kinship and descent. In their turn, cattle given over to the wife's patrilineage enable the male children of that patrilineage to marry, and thereby ensure the continuity of her patrilineage. A barren woman can even take a wife of her own, whose children (obviously biologically fathered by men from outside unions) then become members of her patrilineage, and she is legally and culturally their father, allowing her to participate in reproduction in a metaphorical sense.\n\nThe life of the Nuer people primarily depends on cattle which has shaped them into being a pastoralist group, but sometimes they are known to resort to horticulture as well. If they weren't threatened by the numerous diseases cattle could catch then they would solely rely on pastoralism. Due to the seasons of harsh weather, the Nuer move around time after time to ensure that their primary source of living is safe. They tend to travel when heavy seasons of rainfall come to protect the cattle from getting hoof disease, or when there is a scarcity of resources for the cattle. British anthropologist E.E. Evans-Pritchard noted: “They depend on the herds for their very existence...Cattle are the thread that runs through Nuer institutions, language, rites of passage, politics, economy, and allegiances.“ If they didn't have cattle most of their traditions or other characteristics shaped by cattle in their culture would be altered.\n\nCattle is their primary resource that can be utilized in more than one way. They are able to structure their entire culture around cattle and still have what they need. Times before development the Nuer used every single piece of cattle to their advantage. E.E.Evans-Pritchard describes the characteristics that are revolved around cattle: Cattle helped evolve the Nuer culture into what it may be today. It has shaped the daily duties of the Nuer as they are seen to dedicate themselves to protecting and ensuring safety to the cattle. One can see their true dedication for cattle in times of bad health. For example, each month they place their faces into the ass of their cattle blowing air to relieve or keep them from constipation. Cattle are no good to the Nuer if they are constipated because they are restricted from producing primary resources that families need to survive. E.E. Evans-Pritchard learned that, \"The importance of cattle in Nuer life and thought is further exemplified in personal names.\" They structure the names of their children off of biological features of the cattle themselves.\n\nE.E. Evans-Pritchard noted that, \"I have already indicated that this obsession—for such it seems to an outsider is due not only to the great economic value of cattle but also to the fact that they are links in numerous social relationships.\" All of their raw materials come from these cattle things such as drums, rugs, clothing, spears, shields, containers, and leather goods. There isn’t one single part of the cattle that the Nuer throw away. As they have purpose for ritual intent, churning cheese and even to cleanse the body. Even daily essentials found in common cultures like toothpaste and mouthwash are created with the cattle’s dung and urine. They even use the cattle's dung for everyday use. What they do is gather the dung that the cattle have extracted overnight and put them in big abundant piles. Once they have them in piles they chop the dung into smaller pieces and leaves it out to hardened. From there they use it for whatever resource they may need like containers, toothpaste, or even to protect the cattle themselves. They protect the cattle by feeding the dung to the fire allowing it to produce more smoke keeping insects away from cattle to prevent them from catching a disease.\n\nThe Nuer people never eat cattle just because they want to. Cattle are very sacred to them, therefore when they do eat cattle they honor its ghost. They typically just eat the cattle that is up in age on dying because of sickness. But even if they do so, they all gather together performing rituals,dances or songs before and after they slaughter the cattle. Never do they just kill cattle for the fun of it. “Never do Nuer slaughter animals solely because the desire to eat meat. There is the danger of the ox’s spirit visiting a curse on any individual who would slaughter it without ritual intent, aiming only to use it for food. Any animal that dies of natural causes is eaten.” Many times it may not even just be cattle that they consume, it could be any animal they have scavenged upon that has died because of natural causes. There are a few other food sources that are available for the Nuer to consume. The Nuer diet primarily consists of fish and millet. “Their staple crop is millet.\" Millet is formally consumed as porridge or beer. The Nuer turn to this staple product in seasons of rainfall when they move their cattle up to higher ground. They might also turn to millet when the cattle are performing well enough to support their family.\n\nKinship dynamic is different with the Nuer. To a Nuer individual, his parents and siblings are not considered mar (blood relatives) kin. He doesn't refer to them as kin. To him they are considered gol which is far more intimate and significant. There are kinship categories in the Nuer society. Those categories depend on the payment to them. There is a balance between the mother and father's side that is acknowledged through particular formal occasions such as marriage.\n\nNuer girls usually marry at 17 or 18. If a young girl gets engaged at an early age, the wedding and consummation ceremonies are essentially delayed. Women generally give birth to their first children when they are mature enough to bear them. As long as a girl marries a man with cattle, she is able to freely choose her husband. Her parents may choose a spouse for her, but they must ask for her consent.\n\nKinship among the Nuer is very important to them, they refer to their blood relatives as ``gol”. Kinship within the Nuer is formed off of one’s neighbors or their entire culture. During E.E.Evans-Pritchard’s ethnographic observation, he described the role of kinship as: “Kinship obligations include caring for the children of one’s kin and neighbors. He also observed that,\"The network of kinship ties which links members of local communities is brought about by the operation of exogamous rules, often stated in terms of cattle.\" This is never thought to be the sole responsibility of the child’s parents.\" Cattle are judged by how much milk they can produce which is a necessity in their culture. If possible they create the excess of milk into cheese. But if a family’s herd cannot produce the amount of milk a family needs then they turn to other around them to give them what they need. It’s seen as their responsibility to step in and help the family since it’s not really their fault on how much their cattle can produce. The entire Nuer society is basically watching after each other, for example, as Evans-Pritchard noted that,“When one household has a surplus, it is shared with neighbors. Amassing wealth is not an aim. Although a man who owns a large herd of cattle may be envied, his possession of numerous animals does not garner him any special privilege or treatment.” In this tribe there is no special treatment for how one is treated because of their abundance in cattle. Just because one might have more cattle than another doesn't mean they have a higher prestige. If one might have more than enough to provide for themselves then they also provide that to other kin that are in need, as it is a part of their role in kinship.\n\nE. E. Evans-Pritchard studied the Nuer and made very detailed accounts of his interactions. He also describes Nuer cosmology and religion in his books.\n\nNuer Online indicates that, \"Nuer (Nuäär) believes that God is the spirit of the sky or the spirit who is in the sky” Kuoth Nhial” (God in Heaven) the creator, but Nuers believe in the coming of God through rain, lightning and thunder, and that the rainbow is the necklace of God. The sun and the moon as well as other material entities are also manifestation or sign of God, who after all is a spirit.\n\nThe spirits of the air above are believed to be the most powerful of the lesser spirits, while there are also spirits associated with clan-spears names such as WiW, a spirit of war, associated with thunder. Nuers believe that when a man or a woman dies, the flesh, the life and the soul separate. The flesh is committed to the earth, while the breath or life goes back to God (Kuoth). The soul that signifies the human individuality and personality remains alive as a shadow or a reflection, and departs together with the ox sacrificed, to the place of the ghosts.\".\n\nIn the 1940s, missionaries began to attempt to evangelize the Nuer. The book of Genesis was translated and published in 1954, with the whole New Testament following in 1968. By the 1970s, there were nearly 200 Nuer congregations established. However, reporting indicates that only around 1% of Nuer identify as Christian.\n\nIn the 1990s, Sharon Hutchinson returned to Nuerland to update E.E. Evans-Pritchard's account. She found that the Nuer had placed strict limits on the convertibility of money and cattle in order to preserve the special status of cattle as objects of bride wealth exchange and as mediators to the divine. She also found that as a result of endemic warfare with the Sudanese state, guns had acquired much of the symbolic and ritual importance previously held by cattle.\n\nThe people speak the Nuer language / Thoknath which belongs to the Nilo-Saharan language phylum.\n\nThe Nuer receive facial markings (called \"gaar\") as part of their initiation into adulthood.\nThe pattern of Nuer scarification varies within specific subgroups. The most common initiation pattern among males consists of six parallel horizontal lines which are cut across the forehead with a razor, often with a dip in the lines above the nose. Dotted patterns are also common (especially among the Bul Nuer and among females).\n\nThe Nuer adopted the practice of circumcision as part of the process of assimilation other ethnic groups. The Nuer are not historically known to circumcise, but on rare occasions, may participate as part \"of ritual in their belief systems\". For instance, The Nuer occasionally perform circumcisions to cleanse people who have engaged in the act of incest.\n\nTypical foods eaten by the Nuer tribe include beef, goat, cow's milk, mangos, and sorghum in one of three forms: \"ko̱p\" finely ground, handled until balled and boiled, \"walwal\" ground, lightly balled and boiled to a solid porridge, and injera / Yɔtyɔt, a large, pancake-like yeast-risen flatbread.\n\nIn the early 1990s about 25,000 African refugees were resettled in the United States throughout different locations such as South Dakota, Tennessee and Minnesota. In particular, 4,288 refugees from Sudan were resettled among 36 different states between 1990 and 1997 with the highest number in Texas at 17 percent of the refugee population from Sudan.\n\nThe Nuer refugees in the United States and those in Africa continue to observe their social obligations to one another. They use different means ranging from letters to new technologically advanced communication methods in order to stay connected to their families in Africa. Nuer in the United States provide assistance for family members’ paperwork to help their migration process to the United States. Furthermore, Nuer in the United States observe family obligations by sending money for those still in Africa.\n\nSome important Nuer politicians are Both Diu was the first Nuer and South Sudan Politician from 1947 and follow by Gai Tut in Military is Bol Nyawan who fought against the Khartoum government in Bentiu; he was killed in 1985 by the current president of Sudan. Commander Ruai and Liah Diu Deng were responsible for the attack that forced Chevron to suspend activities in the oil field around 1982.\n\n\nMost Nuer people are named after their cattle. The boys usually chose the name of their favorite cattle based on the form and color of the ox. The girls are named after the cows that they milk. Sometimes the cow names are passed down.\n\nOil exploration and drilling began in 1975 and 1976 by companies such as Chevron. In 1979 the first oil production took place in the southern regions of Darfur. In the early 1980s when the North-South war was happening, Chevron was interested in the reserves in the south. In 1984 guerrillas of SPLA (Sudan People’s Liberation Army) attacked the drilling site of the north at Bentiu. In return, Chevron cleared Nuer and Dinka people in the oil fields area to ensure security for their operations.\n\nThe Nuer-Dinka struggle in oil fields continued in late 1990s into the early 2000s. The struggle for oil production was not only manifested in North-South fight, but also in Nuer-Dinka and many internal conflicts among Nuer.\n\nAs part of Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA), 50 percent of net revenues of southern oil fields were given to the government of southern Sudan as a solution to one of the sources of decades of civil conflict.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38927229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38927229", "title": "Oba's crown", "text": "Oba's crown\n\nAn Oba's crown represents the highest level of authority vested in Yoruba rulers. Referred to as an ade, the bead-embroidered crown is the foremost attribute of the ruler. An oba's crown may also be referred to as an adenla, or great crown. Andenlas are elaborate conical headdresses, like the ade, but feature a heavily beaded veil that covers the face. In his article on the topic, Robert F. Thompson writes, \"The crown incarnates the intuition of royal ancestral force, the revelation of great moral insight in the person of the king, and the glitter of aesthetic experience.\"\n\nAfter being consecrated as leader, a Yoruba oba must not reveal his face to the public. Instead, he wears an ade or adenla. Oba crowns typically feature at least one stylized face depicted in applied beadwork and designed to identify the king when appearing in public. Some examples of crowns have more than one face. Although their significance is unknown, depictions are frequently associated with Odùduwà, and suggest a shared destiny between a leader and his predecessors. Crowns embody the continuity of office, regardless of who may hold it at a particular point in time. Faces may also be depicted on other forms of royal regalia, which indicates the omnipotent, all-seeing power of the monarch and his capacity to provide good leadership.\n\nSome crowns (called oríkògbófo) reflect the personal taste of a king. These include a mask referred to as the “dog-eared-one” (abetíajá), which is worn in such a way that the faces are oriented sideways, and smaller hats shaped like pillboxes, European crowns, and coronets. Babatunde Lawal writes: \"Other crowns were influenced by European style lawyers' wigs, reflecting the radical changes that occurred in Yorubaland between the late nineteenth century and 1960, when the kings lost much of their political power to French and British colonial administrations. Although their position is largely ceremonial today, kings are still consulted by the state government before certain decisions are made. A wig-like crown presents a king as an effective advocate for his subjects.\" \n\nRobert F. Thompson describes the impressive visual effect of the beaded veil in ritual context: \nThe vaguely perceived outlines of the face of the ruler match, in a sense, the generalized qualities of the frontal faces on the crown. Veiling diminishes the wearer's individuality so that he, too, becomes a generalized entity. Balance between the present and past emerges. No longer an individual, the king becomes the dynasty.\n\nAccording to the Orangun-Ila, the \"ade\" is an \"orisa\". When the ade is placed upon the king's head, his \"ori uni\" (inner head) becomes one with those who have reigned before him, who are also considered \"orisa\".\n\nThe bird motif on most crowns has layers of meaning. It recalls how Odùduwà, assisted by a mythical bird, created habitable land on the primordial waters at Ilé Ifè, where he eventually became the first king. It is also emblematic of the role of the king as an intermediary between his subjects and the òrìsà, in the same way that a bird mediates between heaven and earth. Finally, it alludes to a mystical power (àse) that Olòdúmarè reportedly gave to the first female (in the form of a bird enclosed in a calabash), thus allowing her to counterbalance the muscular advantage of men. This mystical power is said to be responsible not only for her ability to procreate but also for her capacity to turn into a bird at night to do good or evil. Thus, by having a symbol of archetypal female power on his crown, a king is expected to manipulate that power for the good of all. This explains why the Ìyá Oba (Official Mother of the King) crowns a new monarch in some towns — to underscore the fact that he has the support of the women. Bird motifs are also present on other sacred or otherwise important objects such as Osanyin staffs.\n\nThere are a variety of differing stories that speak to the history of the ade, or the Oba's crown. What most of these stories have in common is that they acknowledge the primacy of Ile-Ife as the first \"crowned town\" from which all Yoruba kings can trace their descent.\n\nOne of these ancient stories states that before he died, Oduduwa, the founder and first king of the Yoruba people, gave a beaded crown to each of his sons and sent them forth to establish their own kingdoms. Another story states that when Oduduwa was old and almost blind, his sons stole their father's ades and with the authority of the ade established their own kingdoms. This story parallels the breakup of the Oyo Empire into multiple, smaller kingdoms.\n\nSince the mid-nineteenth century, the authority of the oba has been established through an identification with Oduduwa and Ile-Ife.\n\nReligious text and legend dictate that Yoruba gods chose beaded strands as their emblems. Yoruba crowns, embellished with beaded embroidery, connote power by divine sanction. In fact, only a select few in Yoruba society are permitted to wear or use beaded objects, including kings, chiefs, princes, priests, diviners and native doctors.\n\nToday, crowns are embellished with imported colored beads from England. Formerly, red jasper beads were imported from Litingo in Upper Volta and fashioned and polished at Oyo-Ile (Old Oyo). In antiquity, beads were made in Ile-Ife.\n\nBead embroidery is practiced by extremely skilled men in a number of Nigerian centers, especially at Efon-Alaye, Ile-Ife, Oyo, Ilesha, Abeokuta, and Iperu-Remo.\n\nBeads and the process of using them in art and ritual are endowed with multiple layers of meaning and significance. \nBeads and covering oneself in them is healing: Colorful beads are considered to be \"charms\" (\"oogun\") that act upon malevolent forces. To wear neck beads (\"kele\") in contrasting shades of red (\"pupa\") and white (\"funfun\") signifies both the punitive and the healing presence of Shango, the Yoruba god of thunder.\n\nThe art of beading, or stringing, follows the serial process and seriate composition of Yoruba art, an extension of the fundamental principle of ase. One bead in a step-by-step (\"leseese\") or one-by-one (\"leto-lto\") manner. Just as the wrapped bundle of wooden sticks (atoori) on an ancestral altar symbolizes the continuity of a family legacy, beads symbolize consistent continuity from generation to generation. When threaded together, beads represent solidarity and unity.\n\nAs they encircle and adorn parts of the body, beads conceal and protect a person's ase and, through their symbolic meaning, may also reveal essential characteristics of that person.\n"}
{"id": "8884982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8884982", "title": "Online Educa Berlin", "text": "Online Educa Berlin\n\nOEB (formerly Online Educa Berlin) is an annual international conference on technology-supported learning and training (e-learning) launched in Berlin, Germany in 1995.\nSince its inception, all OEB conferences have taken place in Berlin’s central district Mitte in November or early December of each year. The first OEB was hosted at the Berlin Congress Center (bcc); it then moved to the Hotel InterContinental Berlin in 1996 where it has taken place for the subsequent years. In 2015 the conference underwent a rebrand that included a formal name change from ONLINE EDUCA BERLIN to OEB.\n\nThe conferences were organised by ICWE GmbH and supported by the German Federal Minister of Education and Research and the European Commission (Directorate-General for Education and Culture). Each year the conference attracts around 2,000 learning and training professionals from over 100 countries.\n\nDelegates are high-level decision-makers from the education, business and government sectors, making OEB an important networking venue for experts, practitioners and newcomers of e-learning and distance education alike. Training specialists hold lectures and seminars and lead discussions and workshops in which current trends and the latest developments are introduced. The kinds of interactive, knowledge sharing sessions at OEB include Pre-Conference Workshops, Pre-Conference Seminars, Presentation Sessions, Research Domain Presentation Sessions, Discovery Demos, Knowledge Exchange Sessions, Discussions and Debates, LAB Sessions and Learning Cafés.\n\nThe event is held entirely in English and is accompanied by an exhibition at which international e-learning manufacturers, suppliers and service providers present their latest products and services.\n\nIntroduced in 2010 as part of the conference programme, Business EDUCA offers participants a range of sessions through which to discuss research, needs and trends in corporate learning. Business EDUCA attracts strong interest from HR and learning practitioners from companies across the world, as well as researchers and educationalists. Examples of some of the themes covered in Business EDUCA include: discovering top strategies to implement and embed workplace learning, learning from examples of best – and worst – practice from other organisations, as well as developing techniques for nurturing exceptional leadership.\n\nVideo EDUCA offers a rich mix of practical sessions, workshops, masterclasses and lively discussions on all aspects of using video in learning. Participants in Video EDUCA have the opportunity to interact with leading international film and television directors, producers, executives and technicians to share ideas and learn from the professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "26202166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26202166", "title": "Order of Friendship (North Korea)", "text": "Order of Friendship (North Korea)\n\nThe Order of Friendship is a medal awarded by the government of North Korea. It is restricted only to non-nationals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1452118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1452118", "title": "Ozawa v. United States", "text": "Ozawa v. United States\n\nTakao Ozawa v. United States, 260 U.S. 178 (1922), was a case in which the United States Supreme Court found Takao Ozawa, a Japanese-American who was born in Japan but had lived in the United States for 20 years, ineligible for naturalization. In 1915, Takao Ozawa filed for United States citizenship under the Naturalization Act of 1906 which allowed only “free white persons” and \"persons of African nativity or persons of African descent\" to naturalize. Ozawa did not challenge the constitutionality of the racial restrictions. Instead, he claimed that Japanese people were properly classified as “free white persons”.\n\nWriting for a unanimous Court, Justice George Sutherland approved a line of lower court cases that held that \"the words 'white person' were meant to indicate only a person of what is popularly known as the Caucasian race.\" Because in ordinary usage, the Japanese were not considered Caucasian, these courts had held, the Japanese were not \"free white persons\" within the meaning of the law. Justice Sutherland wrote that the lower courts' conclusion that the Japanese were not \"free white persons\" for purposes of naturalization had “become so well established by judicial and executive concurrence and legislative acquiescence that we should not at this late day feel at liberty to disturb it, in the absence of reasons far more cogent than any that have been suggested\". The Court specifically declined to review the ethnological authorities relied on by the lower courts to support their conclusion or those advanced by the parties.\n\nOn the same day, the Supreme Court reiterated its ruling in \"Takuji Yamashita v. Hinkle\".\n\nWithin three months, Justice Sutherland authored a similarly unfavorable ruling in a Supreme Court case concerning the petition for naturalization of a Sikh immigrant from the Punjab region in British India, who identified himself as \"a high caste Hindu of full Indian blood\" in his petition, \"United States v. Bhagat Singh Thind\". The upshot of this ruling was that like the Japanese, \"high-caste Hindus, of full Indian blood\" were not \"free white persons\" and were racially ineligible for naturalized citizenship. To support this conclusion, Justice Sutherland reiterated Ozawa's holding that the words \"white person\" in the naturalization act were \"synonymous with the word 'Caucasian' only as that word is popularly understood.”\n\nBoth decisions had a deleterious effect on Asian Americans as a class, strengthening and reaffirming the racist policies of US immigration and naturalization laws. With successful judicial backing, policymakers passed more anti-Asian laws across the nation, under heavy lobbying by the burgeoning Asiatic Exclusion League. This trend continued until the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11984481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11984481", "title": "Portuguese South African", "text": "Portuguese South African\n\nPortuguese South Africans () are South Africans of Portuguese ancestry.\n\nThe Portuguese explored the coasts of South Africa in the late 15th century, and nominally claimed them as their own with the erecting of \"padrões\" (large stone cross inscribed with the coat of arms of Portugal placed there as part of a land claim). Bartolomeu Dias did so in 1486, and Vasco da Gama recorded a sighting of the Cape of Good Hope in 1497, en route to India.\n\nThe early 20th century witnessed a trickle of emigrants from Madeira whose numbers greatly increased in the decades following World War II. Madeiran immigrants, who are traditionally associated with horticulture and commerce, form the largest group within South Africa's Portuguese community.\n\nThe largest single event of Portuguese settlement occurred when the former Portuguese colonies became independent in 1975. Most of them went to Portugal and Brazil, but a significant number of black and white refugees from Angola and Mozambique made their way to South Africa. Their arrival made South Africa the home of the largest Portuguese African population, increasing it from about 49,000, to 300,000.\n\nThe Portuguese South African community is highly active within the South African community, both politically and economically. Notable members include Maria Ramos who was the former director general of South Africa's National Treasury. She is currently the Group CEO of ABSA, one of South Africa's largest financial services companies. Other Portuguese involvement within the business community includes companies like Mercantile Bank. The community is also actively involved in investment activities with other Southern African countries like Angola and Mozambique.\n\nSocially, the Portuguese community have held an annual festival called Lusito Land (the second largest festival in South Africa).\n\nMost Portuguese, like other South Africans, are Christians. Most of them are Roman Catholics, although there is a Protestant minority.\n\nThe most popular sport with Portuguese South Africans is football. There are many football clubs in South Africa that are of Portuguese origin. One example is the professional football club Vasco Da Gama which currently plays in the National First Division. Football is a favourite pastime for Portuguese youth in South Africa, and many of them tend to join amateur and football clubs in the country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48207898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48207898", "title": "Purbiya", "text": "Purbiya\n\nPurbiya (or Purbia) was a common term used in medieval India for Rajput soldiers from the eastern Gangetic Plain - areas corresponding to present-day western Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh. \"Purbiya Rajputs\" translates as Eastern Rajputs. In contrast, the Rajputs living in Rajasthan were historically referred to as \"Western Rajputs\".\n\nThe first significant influx of Rajputs into the Shahabad area occurred In the early 14th century when Parmar Rajputs migrated and deposed the local Chero rulers. These Rajputs later came known as Ujjainiya Rajputs and form one of the many clans to now inhabit the region.\n\nAccording to the \"Khyat\", a legendary source for information about the Ujjainiya Rajputs, the Jaunpur Sultanate rulers interrupted the prayers of Brahmins on the bank of the Ganges. The Ujjainiya Rajputs attempted to defend the Brahmins, but the Jaunpur Sultanate soon defeated them and demolished the temples used by the Brahmins.\n\nPurbiya was a common term given to the soldiers of Awadh and Bhojpur who served as mercenaries for the rulers of west and north India. The rulers of Malwa were keen recruiters due to Purbiyas' expertise with firearms. This expertise may have been gained due to the easy availability of saltpetre in their native areas. Most Purbiyas were mercenaries and were paid for their services but some were actual kings of smaller principalities.\n\nAlong with members of the Bhumihar caste, many of the Zamindari estates were ruled by Rajputs, such as Sonbarsa Raj, ruled by the Ganwaria Rajput clan, and Dumrao Raj, Jagdishpur in South Bihar, and Shakarpura Raj Zamindari in North Bihar, ruled by the Ujjainiya Parmar Rajput clan from Dhar.Kursela was a Zamindari under British India. R. B. Raghubansh Prasad Singh was the last zamindaar of Kursela. \nBihari Rajputs made up the majority of the Bengal Army.\n\nBihari Rajputs have a long tradition of being recruited as mercenaries for various rulers such as the British and the Marathas. Prior to 1857, the British East India Company preferred to recruit Purbiya soldiers, who they designated as \"The fighting tribes of the Hindoos and the Musselmen\", or simply \"Easterners\". The Bengal Army of the East India Company preferred to recruit its sepoys from the Brahmins and Rajputs of Awadh and Bihar, in part because they had an average height of 5'8\", an important consideration in an army that valued impressive appearance amongst its soldiers.\n\nThe Purbiya sepoys of the Bengal Army played a major role in the Indian Rebellion of 1857 against the British. Mangal Pandey, a notable figure during the start of the mutiny, was a Purbiya serving in the 34th Bengal Native Infantry. Following the suppression of the uprising, British authorities decided not to recruit troops from the eastern plains, and the new Bengal Army was to be recruited primarily from the Sikh and Muslim communities of the Punjab. Purbiya recruitment from the western regions of the United Provinces and the Delhi region continued but on a much smaller scale (two out of sixty-four regiments by 1893).\n\n"}
{"id": "165449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165449", "title": "Racialism", "text": "Racialism\n\nRacialism is the belief that the human species is naturally divided into races, that are ostensibly distinct biological categories. Most dictionaries define the term \"racialism\" as synonymous with racism.\n\nIn 1903, W. E. B. Du Bois said that racialism is the philosophical position that races existed, and that collective differences existed among such categories, the races. He further stated that racism required advancing the argument that one race is superior to other races of human beings. In \"In My Father’s House\" (1992), Kwame Anthony Appiah summarized Du Bois's philosophical stance that \"racialism\" is value-neutral term and that \"racism\" is a value-charged term.\n\nToday, some anthropologists and geneticists point to studies that suggest racialist beliefs are both compatible and incompatible with modern population genetics.\n\nAccording to Oxford Dictionaries Online, racialism is \"another term for racism\". The Merriam-Webster Dictionary defines racialism as \"a theory that race determines human traits and capacities\" and defines \"racism\" as \"a belief that race is the primary determinant of human traits and capacities and that racial differences produce an inherent superiority of a particular race\".\n\nRichard T. Ford claimed that although \"there is no necessary correspondence between the ascribed identity of race and one's culture or personal sense of self\" and \"group difference is not intrinsic to members of social groups but rather contingent o[n] the social practices of group identification\", the social practices of identity politics may coerce individuals into the \"compulsory\" enactment of \"prewritten racial scripts\".\n\nAccording to Yasuko Takezawa, there needs to be anticipation of various potential social and ethical problems associated with population descriptors when studying the genetic differences between populations.\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "30960071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30960071", "title": "Schader Award", "text": "Schader Award\n\nThe Schader Award is a German award bestowed annually on a social scientist. It is awarded by the Schader foundation of Darmstadt. The foundation and its award are founded by and named for Alois M. Schader, and comes with a 15,000 Euro prize.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2538153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2538153", "title": "Sika people", "text": "Sika people\n\nThe Sika (also Sikanese, Sikka or Sara Sikka) people are an Indonesian ethnic group native to the region of east central Flores between the Bloh and Napung Rivers. In the city of Maumere, the center of the region, Sika people occupy a separate block. The Sika language, which is a member of the Timor-Ambon language family, is spoken by the Sika people. The Sika language have at least three recognized dialects, namely \"Sikka Natar\" dialect, \"Sara Krowe\" dialect and \"Ata Tana 'Ai\" or \"Sara Tana 'Ai\" dialect.\n\nA group of mestizo from Sikka and Europeans settled in 1851 as a voluntary recruits from the UK according to Sikka Dili over in Portuguese Timor. In that year, the Portuguese government had José Joaquim Lopes de Lima to sign a treaty with the Netherlands concluded that the west of Timor, Flores island and other areas of the Lesser Sunda Islands are ceded to them. This agreement was later confirmed by the Treaty of Lisbon in 1859. The Sika people are formed in addition to the Bidau and Moradores as one of the three people groups that make up the Portuguese Armed Forces in the colony. All three ethnic groups lived in separate districts of the capital. As for language they still retained their original Malay language, but later switched to a Creole Portuguese. Today they have been absorbed into the same population and do not form their own distinct group anymore.\n\nThe primary religion practiced by the Sika people is Roman Catholicism. Sika people residing in the interior still retain their traditional ancestral worship and Agrarianism cult.\n\nSika people are part of the indigenous population of the Flores island. The material culture of the mountaineers retained more traditional elements than on the coast, especially in the western part, where the Catholic mission worked actively since the 17th century; where it is here that their culture acquired European features.\n\nSika people engage in slash-and-burn agriculture with short forms of shifting cultivation. In the west of the coastal area, irrigation is used. Food crops farming include rice, corn, cassava and millet; and other commodities are such as peanuts and coconut palm. Sika people also raise horses, small cattle and poultry. Coastal fishing is also common. Weaving and braiding are well developed. Commodity-money relations are intertwined with numerous survivals of the traditional communal system, where it is manifested in the system of land ownership, regulation of marriages and in everyday life.\n\nMountain villages are small and have a circular layout, are located on the steep slopes of the mountains; which served as protection against attacks. In the middle of the settlement there is an area with a temple and sacred megalithic shrines. Coastal settlements have a linear plan, located along a road or river. The dwelling frame and pillar structure, pile, in the mountains is designed for large families, while in the coastal areas, for a small family.\n\nClothing of the those living in the interior consists of a skirt or loincloth. In coastal villages, they carry \"kain\" (cloth) and a jacket or shirt.\n\nThe dietary of the Sika people are such as vegetable and mostly cereals from wheat and corn with spices, fruit and juice. Fish and meat are eaten on holidays.\n"}
{"id": "186760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186760", "title": "Statistics Canada", "text": "Statistics Canada\n\nStatistics Canada (), formed in 1971, is the Government of Canada government agency commissioned with producing statistics to help better understand Canada, its population, resources, economy, society, and culture. Its headquarters is in Ottawa. The Minister responsible for Statistics Canada is the Minister of Innovation, Science and Economic Development, currently Navdeep Bains. \n\nThe bureau is commonly called StatCan or StatsCan. StatCan is the official abbreviation. It has regularly been considered the best statistical organization in the world by \"The Economist\", such as in the 1991 and 1993 \"Good Statistics\" surveys. Public Policy Forum and others have also ranked it first.\n\nStatistics is a federal responsibility in Canada, and Statistics Canada produces statistics for all the provinces as well as the federal government. In addition to conducting about 350 active surveys on virtually all aspects of Canadian life, Statistics Canada undertakes a country-wide census every five years on the first and sixth year of each decade. By law, every household must complete the Canada Census form. In May 2006, an Internet version of the census was made widely available for the first time. Another census was held in May 2011, again with the internet being the primary method for statistical data collection. The most recent census was held in May 2016, with the internet being the primary method for statistical data collection. Its data is scheduled for release beginning in February 2017.\n\nThe head of Statistics Canada is the \"Chief Statistician of Canada\". The heads of Statistics Canada and the previous organization, the Dominion Bureau of Statistics, are:\n\n\nStatistics Canada is governed by the Statistics Act, Revised Statutes of Canada 1985.\n\nStatistics Canada publishes numerous documents covering a range of statistical information about Canada, including census data, economic and health indicators, immigration economics, income distribution, and social and justice conditions. It also publishes a peer-reviewed statistics journal, \"Survey Methodology\".\n\nThe Canadian Socio-economic Information Management System CANSIM provides aggregate data for free online including full datasets that also can be downloaded for free. Subject areas include Aboriginal peoples, Agriculture, Business, consumer and property services, Business performance and ownership, Children and youth, Construction, Crime and justice, Culture and leisure, Economic accounts, Education, training and learning, Energy, Environment, Ethnic diversity and immigration, Families, households and housing, Government, Health, Income, pensions, spending and wealth, Information and communications technology, International trade, Labour, Languages, Manufacturing, Population and demography, Prices and price indexes, Reference, Retail and wholesale, Science and technology, Seniors, Society and community, Transportation, and Travel and tourism.\n\n\"The Daily\" is StatCan's free online bulletin that provides current information from StatCan, updated daily, on current social and economic conditions.\n\nAs of February 1, 2012 \"information published by Statistics Canada is automatically covered by the Open License with the exception of Statistics Canada's postal products and Public Use Microdata Files (PUMFs).\" Researchers using StatCan data are required to \"give full credit for any Statistics Canada data, analysis and other content material used or referred to in their studies, articles, papers and other research works.\" The use of Public Use Microdata Files (PUMFs) is governed by the Data Liberation Initiative (DLI) License signed by the universities and Statistics Canada. Aggregate data available through the Canadian Socio-economic Information Management System CANSIM, and the Census website is Open Data under the Statistics Canada Open License Agreement.\n\nBy 24 April 2006, electronic publications on Statistics Canada's web site were free of charge\" with some exceptions.\n\nThe historical Time series data from CANSIM is also available via numerous third-party data vendors, including Haver Analytics, Macrobond Financial, and Thomson Reuters Datastream.\n\nThe Canadian Research Data Centre Network (CRDCN) is a network of quantitative social sciences which includes 27 facilities across Canada that provide \"access to a vast array of social, economic, and health data, primarily gathered\" by Statistics Canada and disseminate \"research findings to the policy community and the Canadian public.\"\n\nStatistics Canada was formed in 1971, replacing the Dominion Bureau of Statistics, which was formed in 1918. Statistics Canada published a print copy of the yearly almanac entitled \"Canada Year Book\" from 1967 to 2012 when it ceased publication due to ebbing demand and deep budgetary cutbacks to StatCan by the federal government. It was a yearly compendium of statistical lore and information on the nation's social and economic past, people, events and facts. The \"Canada Year Book\" was originally edited by a volunteer from the Department of Finance and published by a private company, which offset costs with advertisement sales. This method continued until 1879, at which time the record ceases, until 1885, at which time the Department of Agriculture took up the burden. The duty of publication was transferred to the Dominion Bureau of Statistics upon its formation in 1918.\n\nOn June 18, 2005, after years of study by expert panels, discussion, debate (privacy vs the interests of genealogists and historians), Bill S-18 \"An Act to Amend the Statistics Act\" was passed which released personal census records for censuses taken between 1911 and 2001, inclusive. Debate over the census and their contents had periodically created changes in the Statistics Act such as a 2005 amendment making the privacy restrictions of the census information expire after more than a century. In addition, with Bill S-18, starting with the 2006 Census, Canadians can consent to the public release of their personal census information after 92 years. Census returns are in the custody of Statistics Canada and the records are closed until 92 years after the taking of a census, when those records may be opened for public use and transferred to Library and Archives Canada subject to individual consent where applicable.\n\nThe mandatory long census form was cancelled by the federal government in 2010 in favour of a voluntary household survey (NHS). The mandatory long form census was reinstated in time for the 2016 Census of Population.\n\nIn 2011, Statistics Canada released an audit acknowledging that from c. 2004 to 2011, their automated computer processes had \"inadvertently made economic data available to data distributors before the official publication time.\" In November 2011, in response to the audit, StatsCan stopped that process.\n\nNearly half of Statistics Canada's 5000 employees were notified in April 2012 that their jobs might be eliminated as part of austerity measures imposed by the federal government in the 2012 Canadian federal budget. The 2,300 employees underwent a process to determine which ones were not impacted, which were eliminated and which were given early retirement or put in new positions. The government cuts have reduced the amount of information StatCan produces and may continue to do so; this may mean data collection and processing services will be contracted out.\n\nOn June 17, 2010 an Order in Council was created by the Minister of Industry defining the questions for the 2011 Census as including only the short-form questions; this was published in the Canada Gazette on June 26, 2010, however a news release was not issued by Minister of Industry Tony Clement until July 13, 2010. This release stated in part \"The government will retain the mandatory short form that will collect basic demographic information. To meet the need for additional information, and to respect the privacy wishes of Canadians, the government has introduced the voluntary National Household Survey\". On July 30, 2010 Statistics Canada published a description of the National Household Survey.\n\nThe federal Minister of Industry Tony Clement initially indicated that these changes were being made based on consultations with Statistics Canada but was forced to admit that the change from a mandatory to voluntary form was not one of the recommendations received from StatCan after the head of the organization Munir Sheikh resigned in protest. Information has since been uncovered that indicates attempts on the part of the government to distance themselves from the decision, instructing Statistics Canada officials to delete the phrase \"as per government decision\" from documents which were being written to inform Statistics Canada staff of the change. The minister has since claimed that concerns over privacy and the threat of jail time are the reasons for the change and has refused to reverse his decision stating that the Prime Minister supports this legislation. The argument over privacy has subsequently been undermined by a Privacy Commissioner statement that she was “satisfied with the measures Statistics Canada had put into place to protect privacy”. Other industry professionals have also come out in defense of Statistics Canada’s record on privacy issues. The government has maintained its position, most recently expressed by Lynn Meahan, press secretary to the Industry Minister, that the new census will result in \"useable (sic) and useful data that can meet the needs of many users.\" \n\nDuring the 2010 debates, the Freedom Party of Ontario, a small group based on Ayn Rand's writings, whose 42 candidates received 12,381 votes (or 0.26% of the popular vote) in the 2014 election, opposed the long census. They also opposed bilingualism, political correctness and the inclusion of a question on race on the 1996 Canadian census. FPO claimed that Canadian and British traditions had been dishonoured by multiculturalism. They are among a minority who argue that using statistical data to analyze resource allocation is not beneficial.\n\nCentral to the debate on this issue is the effect on the quality of data which will be collected by Statistics Canada under the new system. Many groups have made the claim that a voluntary system will not provide a quality of data consistent with what Statistics Canada is known for while others feel that politically motivated changes to StatCan methodology taints the reputation of the whole organization in the international setting. Supporters of the change have offered models of European countries who are adopting alternate systems, although in these states the census is being replaced with a database of information on each citizen rather than a voluntary poll and none of these systems are planned for the Canadian 2011 census. They also challenge the current system's ability to cope with rapid socio-demographic changes, though this would not be addressed without increasing the frequency of the survey. Some public opposition to the changes has been expressed through the social media network Facebook.\n\nAccording to \"The Globe and Mail\", by 2015 an increasing number of economists joined organizations such as the Canadian Chamber of Commerce, Canadian Federation of Independent Business, Canadian Economics Association, Martin Prosperity Institute, Toronto Region Board of Trade, Restaurants Canada and the Canadian Association of Business Economics to call for a reinstatement of the mandatory long form. Edmonton's chief economist preferred the long form and argues that the National Housing Survey is only useful at the aggregate city level and leaves \"a dearth of data on long-term changes at the neighbourhood level and within demographic groups... making it difficult to make decisions such as \"where to build a library, where to build a fire hall\" without specific demographic information. Because it was not mandatory there was a lower response rate and therefore increased risk of under-representation of some vulnerable segments of society, for example aboriginal peoples, newly arrived immigrants. This makes it more difficult to \"pinpoint trends such as income inequality, immigrant outcomes in the jobs market, labour shortages and demographic shifts.\"\n\nOne day after its election in November 2015, the new Liberal government reinstated the mandatory Census long form and it was used in the 2016 Census.\n\nFormer industry minister Tony Clement recanted on his support for the elimination of the long form. He avowed that there were ways to protect both indispensable data and Canadians’ privacy. Blaming his party for a “collective” decision to terminate the long form, he said, “I think I would have done it differently.” He implied incorrectly that Statistics Canada head Munir Sheikh had agreed with the cancellation when it was done.\n\nStatistics Canada divided Canada into the following standard geographic units for statistical purposes in the 2016 Census.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60913", "title": "Stigmergy", "text": "Stigmergy\n\nStigmergy ( ) is a mechanism of indirect coordination, through the environment, between agents or actions. The principle is that the trace left in the environment by an action stimulates the performance of a next action, by the same or a different agent. In that way, subsequent actions tend to reinforce and build on each other, leading to the spontaneous emergence of coherent, apparently systematic activity.\n\nStigmergy is a form of self-organization. It produces complex, seemingly intelligent structures, without need for any planning, control, or even direct communication between the agents. As such it supports efficient collaboration between extremely simple agents, who lack any memory, intelligence or even individual awareness of each other.\n\nThe term \"stigmergy\" was introduced by French biologist Pierre-Paul Grassé in 1959 to refer to termite behavior. He defined it as: \"Stimulation of workers by the performance they have achieved.\" It is derived from the Greek words στίγμα \"stigma\" \"mark, sign\" and ἔργον \"ergon\" \"work, action\", and captures the notion that an agent’s actions leave signs in the environment, signs that it and other agents sense and that determine and incite their subsequent actions.\n\nLater on, a distinction was made between the stigmergic phenomenon, which is specific to the guidance of additional work, and the more general, non-work specific incitation, for which the term \"sematectonic\" communication was coined by E. O. Wilson, from the Greek words σῆμα \"sema\" \"sign, token\", and τέκτων \"tecton\" \"craftsman, builder\": \"There is a need for a more general, somewhat less clumsy expression to denote the evocation of any form of behavior or physiological change by the evidences of work performed by other animals, including the special case of the guidance of additional work.\"\n\nStigmergy is now one of the key concepts in the field of swarm intelligence.\n\nStigmergy was first observed in social insects. For example, ants exchange information by laying down pheromones (the trace) on their way back to the nest when they have found food. In that way, they collectively develop a complex network of trails, connecting the nest in an efficient way to various food sources. When ants come out of the nest searching for food, they are stimulated by the pheromone to follow the trail towards the food source. The network of trails functions as a shared external memory for the ant colony.\n\nIn computer science, this general method has been applied in a variety of techniques called ant colony optimization, which search for solutions to complex problems by depositing \"virtual pheromones\" along paths that appear promising.\n\nOther eusocial creatures, such as termites, use pheromones to build their complex nests by following a simple decentralized rule set. Each insect scoops up a 'mudball' or similar material from its environment, invests the ball with pheromones, and deposits it on the ground, initially in a random spot. However, termites are attracted to their nestmates' pheromones and are therefore more likely to drop their own mudballs on top of their neighbors'. The larger the heap of mud becomes, the more attractive it is, and therefore the more mud will be added to it (positive feedback). Over time this leads to the construction of pillars, arches, tunnels and chambers.\n\nStigmergy has even been observed in bacteria, various species of which differentiate into distinct cell types and which participate in group behaviors that are guided by sophisticated temporal and spatial control systems. Spectacular examples of multicellular behavior can be found among the myxobacteria. Myxobacteria travel in \"swarms\" containing many cells kept together by intercellular molecular signals. Most myxobacteria are predatory: individuals benefit from aggregation as it allows accumulation of extracellular enzymes which are used to digest prey microorganisms. When nutrients are scarce, myxobacterial cells aggregate into \"fruiting bodies\", within which the swarming cells transform themselves into dormant myxospores with thick cell walls. The fruiting process is thought to benefit myxobacteria by ensuring that cell growth is resumed with a group (swarm) of myxobacteria, rather than isolated cells. Similar life cycles have developed among the cellular slime molds. The best known of the myxobacteria, \"Myxococcus xanthus\" and \"Stigmatella aurantiaca\", are studied in various laboratories as prokaryotic models of development.\n\nStigmergy studied in eusocial creatures and physical systems, has been proposed as a model of analyzing some robotics systems, multi-agent systems, communication in computer networks, and online communities.\n\nOn the Internet there are many collective projects where users interact only by modifying local parts of their shared virtual environment. Wikipedia is an example of this. The massive structure of information available in a wiki, or an open source software project such as the FreeBSD kernel could be compared to a termite nest; one initial user leaves a seed of an idea (a mudball) which attracts other users who then build upon and modify this initial concept, eventually constructing an elaborate structure of connected thoughts.\n\nIn addition the concept of stigmergy has also been used to describe how cooperative work such as building design may be integrated. Designing a large contemporary building involves a large and diverse network of actors (e.g. architects, building engineers, static engineers, building services engineers). Their distributed activities may be partly integrated through practices of stigmergy.\n\nThe rise of open source software in the 21st century has disrupted the business models of some proprietary software providers, and open content projects like Wikipedia have threatened the business models of companies like Britannica. Researchers have studied collaborative open source projects, arguing they provide insights into the emergence of large-scale peer production and the growth of gift economy. \n\nHeather Marsh, associated with the Occupy Movement, Wikileaks, and Anonymous, has proposed a new social system where competition as a driving force would be replaced with a more collaborative society. This proposed society would not use representative democracy but new forms of idea and action based governance and collaborative methods including stigmergy. \"With stigmergy, an initial idea is freely given, and the project is driven by the idea, not by a personality or group of personalities. No individual needs permission (competitive) or consensus (cooperative) to propose an idea or initiate a project.\" \n\nSome at the Hong Kong Umbrella Movement in 2014 were quoted recommending stigmergy as a way forward.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40817094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40817094", "title": "Tamils in Italy", "text": "Tamils in Italy\n\nTamils in Italy are people of ethnic Tamil ancestry who reside in Italy. Around 25,000 Tamils from both Sri Lanka and India are estimated to be living in Italy. \n\nThough it is not established as of when, the migration of the Tamil people to Italy started but most of the arrivals is presumed to haven place during the Sri Lankan Civil War. It is estimated that Sri Lankan Tamils constitute at least a third of the Sri Lankan immigrants in Italy. Tamils were reported to have migrated to Milan during the 1980s a decade before the Civil War commencing.\n\nThe Tamil Diaspora is concentrated in various parts of the country predominantly in Palermo, Catania, Milan, Reggio Emilia, Naples, Bologna and Lecce where a number of cultural and linguistic organizations are based in.\n"}
{"id": "5090004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5090004", "title": "Tirma people", "text": "Tirma people\n\nTirma is an ethnic group in Ethiopia and in Sudan. They speak Suri, a Nilo-Saharan language. The population of this group is numbered in the tens of thousands.\n\n"}
{"id": "43959956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43959956", "title": "Uzbek Canadians", "text": "Uzbek Canadians\n\nUzbek Canadians are Canadian citizens of Uzbek descent or persons of Uzbek descent residing in Canada. According to the 2011 Census there were 2,725 Canadians who claimed Uzbek ancestry. There is a small group of Uzbeks in the city of Guelph. There are 150 ethnic Uzbek families from Afghanistan. The Uzbeks of Guelph are mainly coming from Fariab oblast and Andha city in particular.\n\n"}
{"id": "490264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=490264", "title": "Windmill Theatre", "text": "Windmill Theatre\n\nThe Windmill Theatre — now The Windmill International — in Great Windmill Street, London was for many years both a variety and revue theatre. The Windmill remains best known for its nude \"tableaux vivants\", which began in 1932 and lasted until its reversion to a cinema in 1964. Many prominent British comedians of the post-war years started their careers working at this theatre.\n\nGreat Windmill Street took its name from a windmill that stood there from the reign of King Charles II until the late 18th century. In 1909 a cinema, the Palais de Luxe, opened on the site. It stood on the corner of a block of buildings that included the Apollo and Lyric theatres, where Archer Street joined Great Windmill Street, just off Shaftesbury Avenue. The building complex incorporates Piccadilly Buildings, an 1897 building which housed the offices of British Mutoscope and Biograph Company, an early producer of films.\n\nThe Palais de Luxe was one of the first places where early silent films were shown. As larger cinemas were opened in the West End, business slowed and the Palais de Luxe was forced to close.\n\nIn 1930, Laura Henderson bought the Palais de Luxe building and hired F. Edward Jones, an architect, to remodel the interior to a small 320-seat, two-tier (stalls and circle) theatre. It was then renamed the Windmill. It opened on 15 June 1931, as a playhouse with a new play by Michael Barringer called \"Inquest\". Its existence as a theatre was short and unprofitable, and it soon returned to screening films, such as \"The Blue Angel\" (1930) starring Marlene Dietrich.\n\nHenderson hired a new theatre manager, Vivian Van Damm, who developed the idea of the Revudeville—a programme of continuous variety that ran from 2.30pm until 11pm. They began to put on shows with singers, dancers, showgirls, and specialty numbers. The first Revudeville act opened on 3 February 1932, featuring 18 unknown acts. These continued to be unprofitable; in all, the theatre lost £20,000 in the first four years after its opening.\n\nA breakthrough came when Van Damm began to incorporate glamorous nude females on stage, inspired by the Folies Bergère and Moulin Rouge in Paris. This coup was made possible by convincing Lord Cromer, then Lord Chamberlain, in his position as the censor for all theatrical performances in London, that the display of nudity in theatres was not obscene: since the authorities could not credibly hold nude statues to be morally objectionable, the theatre presented its nudes—the legendary \"Windmill Girls\"—in motionless poses as living statues or \"tableaux vivants\". The ruling: 'If you move, it's rude.' The Windmill's shows became a huge commercial success, and the Windmill girls took their show on tour to other London and provincial theatres and music halls. The Piccadilly and Pavilion theatres copied the format and ran non-stop shows, reducing the Windmill's attendance.\n\nVan Damm produced a series of nude tableaux vivants based on themes such as Annie Oakley, mermaids, red Indians, and Britannia. Later, movement was introduced in the form of the fan dance, where a naked dancing girl's body was concealed by fans held by herself and four female attendants. At the end of the act the girl would stand stock still, her attendants would remove the concealing fans and reveal her nudity. The girl would then hold the pose for about ten seconds before the close of the performance. Another way the spirit of the law was evaded, enabling the girl to move, and thus satisfying the demands of the audience, was by moving the props rather than the girls. Ruses such as a technically motionless nude girl holding on to a spinning rope were used. Since the rope was moving rather than the girl, authorities allowed it, even though the girl's body was displayed in motion.\n\nThe theatre's famous motto \"We Never Closed\" (often humorously modified to \"We Never Clothed\") was a reference to the fact that the theatre remained open, apart from the compulsory closure that affected all theatres for 12 days (4–16 September) in 1939. Performances continued throughout the Second World War even at the height of the Blitz. The showgirls, cast members, and crew moved into the safety of the theatre's two underground floors during some of the worst air attacks, from 7 September 1940 to 11 May 1941.\n\nMany of the Windmill's patrons were families and troops, as well as celebrities who came as Henderson's guests. These high society guests included Princesses Helena Victoria and Marie Louise (granddaughters of Queen Victoria). For a time, on the opening night of every new Windmill show, the Royal Box was always reserved for the Hon. George Lansbury, a member of His Majesty's Government. The theatre ran into the occasional problem with male patrons, but security guards were always on the lookout for improper behaviour. One of the more comical off-stage acts was the spectacle of the \"Windmill Steeplechase\" where, at the end of a show, patrons from the back rows would make a dash over the top of the seats to grab the front rows.\n\nWhen Henderson died on 29 November 1944, aged 82, she left the Windmill to Van Damm. During his tenure, the Windmill was home to numerous famous comedians and actors who had their first real success there, including Jimmy Edwards, Tony Hancock, Spike Milligan, Harry Secombe, Peter Sellers, Michael Bentine, George Martin, Bruce Forsyth, Arthur English, Tommy Cooper, and Barry Cryer. Cryer was \"a bottom of the bill\" comic at the Windmill, while Forsyth performed as a juvenile performer—a superior post. A number of the most celebrated photographic pin-up models of the 1950s and early 1960s also did a stint as Windmill Girls, including Lyn Shaw, June Wilkinson, and Lorraine Burnett.\n\nVan Damm ran the theatre until his death on 14 December 1960, aged approximately 71. He left the theatre to his daughter, rally driver Sheila Van Damm. She struggled to keep it going, but by this time, London's Soho neighbourhood had become a seedier place. The Soho neighbourhood of the 1930s and 1940s had been a respectable place filled with shops and family restaurants. The Revudeville shows ran from 1932 to 1964, until the Windmill officially closed on 31 October 1964, unable to compete with the private members' strip clubs.\n\nThe theatre then changed hands and became the Windmill Cinema (with a casino incorporated in the building), having been bought by the Compton Cinema Group run by, Michael Klinger and Tony Tenser. On 2 November 1964, the Windmill Cinema opened with the film \"Nude Las Vegas\". The cinema became part of the Classic Cinema chain in May 1966. On 9 June 1974, the Windmill Cinema closed. The cinema's lease was bought in February 1974 by nightclub and erotica entrepreneur Paul Raymond. Raymond returned it to a venue for nude shows \"à la Revuedeville but without the comic element\". The first production at the now renamed Windmill Theatre was a play called \"Let's Get Laid\", which opened on 2 September 1974. and starred Fiona Richmond and John Inman. A nude dance show called \"Rip-Off\" was the next production at the theatre; this show commenced on 10 May 1976. Paul Raymond re-introduced burlesque when he renamed the Windmill \"La Vie en Rose Show Bar\" and opened the venue as a supper club with a laser disco on 16 November 1982. The venue became Paramount City in May 1986, a cabaret club managed for a short duration by Debbie Raymond, Paul Raymond's daughter. A period as a television studio followed—the Sky television programme \"Jameson Tonight\" was produced in the studio.\n\nIn 1994, the former theatre part of the building was leased to Oscar Owide as a Wild West venue which became after a short time an erotic table-dancing club called The Windmill International, run by Oscar Owide and his son Daniel. Until 2009, the Paul Raymond Organisation occupied the Piccadilly Buildings section of the building as their offices. A \"gas or electricity explosion\" occurred in the male toilets of the Windmill Club occurred on 3 March 2017 leading to a brief evacuation of the building and surrounding area.\n\nOscar Owide died in December 2017. A month later, the Windmill lost its licence because it been found to have broken the \"no touching\" requirement between performers and clients.\n\nThere have been four films about or featuring The Windmill:\n\n\n"}
