{"id": "11205710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11205710", "title": "Amnesty law", "text": "Amnesty law\n\nAn amnesty law is any law that retroactively exempts a select group of people, usually military leaders and government leaders, from criminal liability for crimes committed.\nMost allegations involve human rights abuses and crimes against humanity.\n\nMany countries have been plagued by revolutions, coups and civil war. After such turmoil the leaders of the outgoing regime that want, or are forced, to restore democracy in their country are confronted with possible litigation regarding the \"counterinsurgency\" actions taken during their reign. It is not uncommon for people to make allegations of human rights abuse and crimes against humanity. To overcome the hazard of facing prosecution, many countries have absolved those involved of their alleged crimes.\n\nAmnesty laws are often also equally problematic to the opposing side as a cost-benefit problem: Is bringing the old leadership to justice worth extending the conflict or rule of the previous regime, with an accompanying increase in suffering and casualties, as the old regime refuses to let go of power?\n\nVictims, their families and human rights organisations—\"e.g.,\" Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Humanitarian Law Project—have opposed such laws through demonstrations and litigation, their argument being that an amnesty law violates local constitutional law and international law by upholding impunity.\n\nProviding amnesty for “international crimes”—which include crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide—is increasingly considered to be prohibited by international law. This understanding is drawn from the obligations set out in human rights treaties, the decisions of international and regional courts and the law emerging from long-standing state practice (customary international law). International, regional and national courts have increasingly overturned general amnesties. And recent peace agreements have largely avoided granting amnesty for serious crimes. With that in mind, the International Criminal Court was established to ensure that perpetrators do not evade command responsibility for their crimes should the local government fail to prosecute.\n\nThe Belfast Guidelines on Amnesty and Accountability set out a framework to evaluate the legality and legitimacy of amnesties in accordance with the multiple legal obligations faced by states undergoing conflict or political transition. They have been collectively authored by a group of international human rights and conflict resolution experts led by Louise Mallinder and Tom Hadden at the Transitional Justice Institute.\n\nAfghanistan has adopted a law precluding prosecution for war crimes committed in conflicts in previous decades.\n\nThe Afghan government adopted the Action Plan for Peace, Justice, and Reconciliation in December 2005, and hotly debated the plan’s focus on criminal accountability. Later, Parliament adopted a bill that provided a nearly blanket amnesty for all those involved in the Afghan conflict.\n\nThe drafting of the amnesty bill was pioneered by some of the former commanders known to have committed human rights abuses and who felt threatened by the sudden emphasis on accountability. \nAlthough this bill was never formally recognized as law, it has had major political significance, serving as a clear signal of some human rights violators’ continuing power.\n\nA decree by the President in 2006 makes prosecution impossible for human rights abuses, and even muzzle open debate by criminalizing public discussion about the nation's decade-long conflict.\n\nThe National Commission for Forced Disappearances (CONADEP), led by writer Ernesto Sabato, was created in 1983. Two years later, the \"Juicio a las Juntas\" (Trial of the Juntas) largely succeeded in proving the crimes of the various \"juntas\" which had formed the self-styled National Reorganization Process. Most of the top officers who were tried were sentenced to life imprisonment: Jorge Rafael Videla, Emilio Eduardo Massera, Roberto Eduardo Viola, Armando Lambruschini, Raúl Agosti, Rubén Graffigna, Leopoldo Galtieri, Jorge Anaya and Basilio Lami Dozo. However, Raúl Alfonsín's government voted two amnesty laws in order to avoid the escalation of trials against militaries involved in human rights abuses: the 1986 \"Ley de Punto Final\" and the 1987 \"Ley de Obediencia Debida\". President Carlos Menem then pardoned the leaders of the \"junta\" and the surviving commanders of the armed leftist guerrilla organizations in 1989–1990. Following persistent activism by the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo and other associations, the amnesty laws were overturned by the Argentine Supreme Court nearly twenty years later, in June 2005. However, the ruling wasn't applied to the guerrilla leaders, who remained at large.\n\nIn the 1980s, incompetent economic management and ballooning domestic graft, including the draining of funds from parastatals, combined with a continent-wide economic crisis, effectively bankrupted the economy. The government turned to the Bretton Woods institutions for support, which required the implementation of unpopular economic austerity measures. In 1988, when France refused to meet the budgetary shortfall, the three main banks, all state-owned, collapsed and the government was unable to pay teachers, civil servants and soldiers their salaries, nor students their grants. This caused domestic opposition to mushroom, rendering the country ‘virtually ungovernable’.20 The World Bank and the InternationalMonetary Fund (IMF) refused to provide emergency assistance because of Benin’s failure to adhere to prior agreements.21 Kérékou convened a national conference to discuss the country’s future course, bringing together representatives of all sectors of Beninese society, including ‘teachers, students, the military, government officials, religious authorities, non-governmental organizations, more than 50 political parties, ex-presidents, labor unions, business interests, farmers, and dozens of local development organizations’.22 Kérékou believed that he could retain control of the 488 delegates. Instead, when it met in February 1990, the convention declared itself sovereign, redefined the powers of the presidency, reducing Kérékou to a figurehead role, and appointed Nicéphore Soglo, a former World Bank staff member, to act as executive prime minister. In exchange for a full pardon for any crimes he may have committed, Kérékou peacefully ceded power. By March 1991, the Beninese electorate had ratified a new constitution and democratically elected Soglo president.\n\nIn 1979, Brazil’s military dictatorship—which suppressed young political activists and trade unionists—passed an amnesty law. This law allowed exiled activists to return, but was also used to shield human rights violators from prosecution. Perpetrators of human rights abuses during Brazil’s 1964 to 1985 military dictatorship have yet to face criminal justice.\nIn 2010, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights declared Brazil’s amnesty law illegal because of the provisions that “prevent the investigation and punishment of serious human rights violations” and ordered the nation to begin exploring the gross human rights violations of the past. \nOn April 9, 2014, a bill (#237/2013) that would modify this law to exclude human rights violations committed by state agents was approved by the Brazilian senate.\n\nWhen Augusto Pinochet was arrested in London as part of a failed extradition to Spain, which was demanded by magistrate Baltasar Garzón, a bit more information concerning Condor was revealed. One of the lawyers who asked for his extradition talked about an attempt to assassinate Carlos Altamirano, leader of the Chilean Socialist Party: Pinochet would have met Italian terrorist Stefano Delle Chiaie in Madrid in 1975, during Franco's funeral, in order to have him murdered. But as with Bernardo Leighton, who was shot in Rome in 1975 after a meeting the same year in Madrid between Stefano Delle Chiaie, Michael Townley and anti-Castrist Virgilio Paz Romero, the plan ultimately failed.\n\nChilean judge Juan Guzmán Tapia would eventually make jurisprudence concerning \"permanent kidnapping\" crime: since the bodies of the victims could not be found, he deemed that the kidnapping may be said to continue, therefore refusing to grant to the military the benefices of the statute of limitation. This helped indict Chilean militaries who were benefitting from a 1978 self-amnesty decree.\n\nIn November 2005 an amnesty law was adopted regarding offences committed between August 1996 and June 2003.\n\nPresident Joseph Kabila put an Amnesty Law into effect in May 2009. This law forgives combatants for war-related violence in the eastern provinces of North and South Kivu committed between June 2003 and May 2009 – excluding genocide, war crimes international crimes against humanity. Although of limited temporal and geographic scope, by granting amnesty for many crimes perpetuated by rebel groups, Congolese armed forces, militias, and police, there is a risk that the law may perpetuate the DRC’s culture of impunity.\n\nFollowing the twelve-year-long civil war an amnesty law was passed in 1993. The law modified a previous amnesty law which was passed in 1992. In 2016, however, the amnesty law was overturned by the El Salvador Supreme Court.\n\nThe Indemnity and Oblivion Act was passed in 1660, as part of rebuilding during the English Restoration after the English Civil War. It was jokingly referred to as producing \"indemnity for the King's enemies and oblivion for the King's friends\".\n\nThe so-called \"Alan Turing law\" is a proposed amnesty law for men convicted of consensual homosexual sex prior to the passing of the Sexual Offences Act 1967. The Government has announced that the amnesty will be introduced in England and Wales as an amendment to the Policing and Crime Bill 2016.\n\nAn amnesty law for crimes perpetrated before March 28, 1991, was enacted in 1991 after which the militias (with the important exception of Hezbollah) were dissolved, and the Lebanese Armed Forces began to slowly rebuild themselves as Lebanon's only major non-sectarian institution.\n\nOn 14 June 1995, President Alberto Fujimori signed a bill granting amnesty for any human rights abuses or other criminal acts committed from May 1982 to 14 June 1995 as part of the counterinsurgency war by military, police, and civilians.\n\nThe amnesty laws created a new challenge for the human rights movement in Peru. They thwarted the demands for truth and justice that thousands of family members of victims of political violence have been making since the 1980s. Thus, after the fall of Alberto Fujimori in 2001, the Inter-American Court ruled that the amnesty laws 26.479 and 26.492 were invalid because they were incompatible with the American Convention on Human Rights. The court later specified that the ruling was applicable to all Peruvian cases.\n\nA bill absolved anyone convicted for committing political crimes. Among them\nthose who were convicted of having assassinated a constitutional court judge in 1993.\n\nOn 7 July 1999, the \"Lomé Peace Agreement\" was signed. Along with a cease-fire agreement between the government of Alhaji Ahmad Tejan Kabbah and the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) it contained proposals to \"expunge responsibility for all offences including international crimes, otherwise known as delict jus gentium such as crimes against humanity, war crimes, genocide, torture and other serious violations of international humanitarian law.\"\n\nFollowing the end of apartheid South Africa decided not to prosecute but instead created the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC). Its aim was to investigate and elucidate the crimes committed during the apartheid regime while not indicting in an attempt to make the alleged perpetrators more compliant to cooperate.\n\nThe TRC offered of “amnesty for truth” to perpetrators of human rights abuses during the apartheid era. This enabled abusers to confess their actions to the TRC in order to be granted amnesty. It aroused much controversy in the country and internationally.\n\nIn 1977, the first democratic government elected after Franco's death passed the Law 46/1977, of amnesty, which exempted of responsibility to everyone who committed any offence for political reasons prior to this date. This law allowed the commutation of sentences of those accused to attack the dictatorship and secured that those crimes committed during the Francoism would not be prosecuted.\n\nDuring the War on Terror, the United States enacted the Military Commissions Act of 2006 in an attempt to regulate the legal procedures involving illegal combatants. Part of the act was an amendment which retroactively rewrote the War Crimes Act effectively making policy makers (i.e., politicians and military leaders) and those applying policy (i.e., CIA interrogators and U.S. soldiers) no longer subject to legal prosecution under U.S. law for acts defined as war crimes before the amendment was passed. Because of that, critics describe the MCA as an amnesty law for crimes committed in the War on Terror.\n\nUruguay granted the former military regime amnesty for the violations of human rights during their regime.\n\n"}
{"id": "11819158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11819158", "title": "April Novelization", "text": "April Novelization\n\nApril Novelization () refers to the changes (constitutional amendments) to the 1952 Constitution of the People's Republic of Poland, agreed in April 1989, in the aftermath of the Polish Round Table Agreement.\n\nAmong key changes were:\n\nThe 1952 constitution would be even further reformed by the December Novelization and Small Constitution of 1992, and finally replaced in 1997 by a completely new current Constitution of Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "30924236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30924236", "title": "Assange v Swedish Prosecution Authority", "text": "Assange v Swedish Prosecution Authority\n\nJulian Assange v Swedish Prosecution Authority were the set of legal proceedings in the United Kingdom concerning the requested extradition of Julian Assange to Sweden to further a 'preliminary investigation' into accusations of his having committed sexual offences. The proceedings began in 2012 and on 12 August 2015, Swedish prosecutors announced that they would drop their investigation into three of the allegations against Assange, because of the expiration of the statute of limitations. The investigation into the allegation of rape, as of 19 May 2017, has been dropped by Swedish authorities. A disputed issue over the course of the legal proceedings was the claimed fear that Assange could ultimately be extradited to United States of America should he be sent to Sweden. The United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention has stated that \"the various forms of deprivation of liberty to which Julian Assange has been subjected constitute a form of arbitrary detention\", calling for the case to be closed and Assange to be allowed to walk free.\n\nOn 20 August 2010, two women, a 26-year-old living in Enköping and a 31-year-old living in Stockholm, jointly went to the Swedish police not seeking to bring charges against Assange but in order to track him down and persuade him to be tested for sexually transmitted diseases after their separate sexual encounters with him. The police told them that they could not simply tell Assange to take a test, but that their statements would be passed to the prosecutor. Later that day, the duty prosecutor ordered the arrest of Julian Assange on the suspicion of rape and molestation.\n\nThe next day, the case was transferred to Chefsåklagare (Chief Public Prosecutor) Eva Finné.\nIn answer to questions surrounding the incidents, the following day, Finné declared, \"I don't think there is reason to suspect that he has committed rape\". However, Karin Rosander from the Swedish Prosecution Authority, said Assange remained suspected of molestation. Police gave no further comment at the time, but continued the investigation.\n\nAfter learning of the investigation, Assange said, \"The charges are without basis and their issue at this moment is deeply disturbing\".\n\nThe preliminary investigation concerning suspected rape was discontinued by Finné on 25 August, but two days later Claes Borgström, the attorney representing the two women, requested a review of the prosecutor's decision to terminate part of the investigation.\n\nOn 30 August, Assange was questioned by the Stockholm police regarding the allegations of sexual molestation. He denied the allegations, saying he had consensual sexual encounters with the two women.\n\nOn 1 September 2010, Överåklagare (Director of Public Prosecution) Marianne Ny decided to resume the preliminary investigation concerning all of the original allegations. On 18 August 2010, Assange had applied for a work and residence permit in Sweden. On 18 October 2010, his request was denied. He left Sweden on 27 September 2010. According to one source his departure was with the permission of the Swedish authorities. Another source claims that the Swedish authorities notified Assange's lawyer of his imminent arrest on that same day.\n\nOn 18 November 2010, Marianne Ny ordered the detention of Julian Assange on suspicion of rape, three cases of sexual molestation and unlawful coercion. The Stockholm District Court acceded to the order and issued a European Arrest Warrant to execute it. The warrant was appealed to the Svea Court of Appeal which upheld its issuance, but lowered it to suspicion of rape of a lesser degree, unlawful coercion and two cases of sexual molestation rather than three. The warrant was also appealed to the Supreme Court of Sweden, which decided not to hear the case. At this time Assange had been living in the United Kingdom for 1–2 months. An extradition hearing took place in an English court in February 2011 to consider an application by Swedish authorities for the extradition of Assange to Sweden. The outcome of the hearing was announced on 24 February 2011, when the extradition warrant was upheld. Assange appealed to the High Court. On 2 November 2011, the court upheld the extradition decision and rejected all four grounds for the appeal as presented by Assange's legal representatives. £19,000 costs was also awarded against Assange. On 5 December 2011, Assange was refused permission by the High Court to appeal to the Supreme Court. The High Court certified that his case raised a point of law of general public importance. The Supreme Court subsequently granted permission to appeal, and heard the appeal on 1 and 2 February 2012. The court reserved its judgment and dismissed the appeal on 30 May 2012. Assange has said the investigation is \"without basis\". He remained on conditional bail in the United Kingdom. On 19 June 2012, Assange sought refuge at Ecuador's Embassy in London and was granted temporary asylum. On 16 August 2012, he was granted full asylum by the Ecuadorian government but has been unable to leave the embassy without being arrested.\n\nOn the 24 June 2014, \"The Guardian\" reported that Assange's lawyers filed a request to Stockholm District Court to dismiss his detention, based on an update to Sweden's code of judicial procedure (1 June 2014) to conform with EU law including a new provision that those arrested or detained have the right to be made aware of \"facts forming the basis for the decision to arrest\".\n\nOn 16 July 2014, the Stockholm District Court reviewed the detention order on request by Assange. During the course of the proceedings, Assange's defence lawyers said that the prosecutors have a \"duty\" to advance the case, and that they had shown \"passivity\" in refusing to go to London to interview Assange. After hearing evidence, the district court concluded that there was probable cause to suspect Assange of committing the alleged crimes, and that the detention order should remain in place.\n\nIn response, Assange's Swedish legal team stated to Radio Sweden: \"We still think we have very good legal arguments to get this decision overruled, so we are confident in the result of the appeal. We think the court of appeal can make another decision on the same arguments as the district court.\" Ecuador immediately issued a statement: \"The Ecuadorian Government reaffirms its offer of judicial cooperation to the Kingdom of Sweden, to reach a prompt solution to the case. In this sense Ecuador keeps its invitation to judicial officers visit the London Embassy so that Julian Assange can be interviewed or via videoconference. Both possibilities are explicitly referred in the current procedural legislation in Sweden and the European Union.\"\n\nOn 20 November 2014, the Swedish Court of Appeal refused Assange's appeal, upholding the 2010 detention order, though at the same time issuing a statement criticising the prosecution for not having done more to advance the case by proceeding with an interrogation of Assange.\n\nOn 12 August 2015, Swedish prosecutors announced that, as the statute of limitations for the less serious allegations had run out, and they had not succeeded in interviewing Assange, they would end part of their preliminary investigation. After 18 August 2015, Assange could no longer be charged for any of the three less serious charges. However, the preliminary investigation into the more serious allegation remained open as the statute of limitations for this charge was not expected to expire until 2020. Swedish authorities interviewed Assange on this allegation in November 2016.\n\nOn 19 May 2017, the Swedish chief prosecutor applied to the Stockholm District Court to rescind the arrest warrant for Julian Assange, effectively ceasing their investigation against Julian Assange. The case may be reinstated until the expiration of the statute of limitations. Additionally, Britain's arrest warrant pertaining to bail violations remains open.\n\nAssange presented himself to the Metropolitan Police on December 7, 2010, and was remanded to London's Wandsworth Prison. On 16 December, he was granted bail with bail conditions of residence at Ellingham Hall, Norfolk, and wearing of an electronic tag. Bail was set at £240,000 surety with a deposit of £200,000 ($312,700).\n\nOn release on bail, Assange said \"I hope to continue my work and continue to protest my innocence in this matter,\" and told the BBC, \"This has been a very successful smear campaign and a very wrong one.\" He claimed that the extradition proceedings to Sweden were \"actually an attempt to get me into a jurisdiction which will then make it easier to extradite me to the US.\" Swedish prosecutors have denied the case has anything to do with WikiLeaks.\n\nThe extradition hearing took place on 7–8 and 11 February 2011 before the City of Westminster Magistrates' Court sitting at Belmarsh Magistrates' Court in London. Assange's lawyers at the extradition hearing were Geoffrey Robertson QC and Mark Stephens, human rights specialists, and the prosecution was represented by a team led by Clare Montgomery QC. Arguments were presented as to whether the Swedish prosecutor had the authority to issue a European Arrest Warrant, the extradition was requested for prosecution or interrogation, the alleged crimes qualified as extradition crimes, there was an abuse of process, his human rights would be respected, and he would receive a fair trial if extradited to Sweden.\n\nThe outcome of the hearing was announced on 24 February 2011, when the extradition warrant was upheld. Senior District Judge Howard Riddle found against Assange on each of the main arguments against his extradition. The judge said \"as a matter of fact, and looking at all the circumstances in the round, this person (Mr Assange) passes the threshold of being an accused person and is wanted for prosecution.\" Judge Riddle concluded: \"I am satisfied that the specified offences are extradition offences.\"\n\nAssange commented after the decision to extradite him, saying \"It comes as no surprise but is nevertheless wrong. It comes as the result of a European arrest warrant system run amok.\"\n\nOn 2 March 2011, Assange's lawyers lodged an appeal with the High Court challenging the decision to extradite him to Sweden. Assange remained on conditional bail. The appeal hearing took place on 12 and 13 July 2011 at the High Court in London. The judges' decision was reserved, and a written judgment was delivered on 2 November 2011, dismissing the appeal.\n\nThe High Court refused permission to appeal to the Supreme Court, but this was granted by the Supreme Court itself, after the High Court certified that a point of law of general public importance was involved in its decision.\n\nThe point of law certified was whether the wording \"Judicial Authority\" in the 2003 Extradition Act was to be interpreted as a “person who is competent to exercise judicial authority and that such competence requires impartiality and independence of both the executive and the parties” or if it “embraces a variety of bodies, some of which have the qualities of impartiality and independence …and some of which do not.”\n\nThe Supreme Court heard the appeal on 1 and 2 February 2012. The court reserved its judgment, and dismissed the appeal by a 5–2 majority on 30 May 2012.\n\nThe court granted Assange two weeks to make an application to reopen the appeal after his counsel argued the judgments of the majority relied on an interpretation of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties that was not argued during the hearing. The application was rejected on 14 June, thereby exhausting Assange's legal options in the United Kingdom.\n\nBarring any appeal to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, extradition was expected to take place over a ten-day period commencing on 28 June 2012.\n\nSince 19 June 2012, Assange has lived in the Embassy of Ecuador in London, where he asked for and was granted political asylum. Because Assange did not comply with his bail conditions, his supporters forfeited £93,500.\n\nAssange’s lawyers invited the Swedish prosecutor four times to come and question him at the embassy, but the offer was refused. In March 2015, faced with the prospect of the Swedish statute of limitations expiring for some of the allegations, the prosecutor relented and agreed to question Assange in the Ecuadorean embassy. The UK agreed to the interview in May awaiting Ecuadorean approval.\n\nAssange said he would go to Sweden if provided with a diplomatic guarantee that he would not be turned over to the United States, to which the Swedish foreign ministry stated that Sweden's legislation does not allow any judicial decision like extradition to be predetermined.\nHowever, the Swedish government is free to reject extradition requests from non-EU countries, independent of any court decision.\n\nAssange was arrested in his absence and wanted for questioning in relation to accusations against him of rape and sexual molestation. This was the first step in the criminal prosecution procedure in Sweden, and only after the questioning would the prosecution authority be able to formally indict him.\n\nOn 20 October 2015, a new batch of documents resulting from a FOIA request to the Swedish authorities filed by the Italian news magazine l'Espresso was published online. They contain records of correspondence between the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Crown Prosecution Service. A CPS lawyer wrote in an email to Marianne Ny that \"it would not be prudent for the Swedish authorities to try to interview the defendant in the UK... He would of course have no obligation under English law to answer any questions put to him... any attempt to interview under strict Swedish law would invariably be fraught with problems.\" Referring to the case itself, he wrote, \"It is simply amazing how much work this is generating... Do not think that the case is being dealt with as just another extradition request.\" Assange's legal team stated that, following these revelations, they would probably challenge the extradition request in court again.\n\nIn March 2015, Marianne Ny indicated that she would allow Assange to be interviewed in London, and that the interview would be conducted by a deputy prosecutor, Ingrid Isgren, as well as a police investigator. In December 2015, Ecuador stated that it had reached a deal with Sweden which would allow him to be interviewed in the Embassy. In September 2016, Ecuador set a date for Assange's interview over the rape allegation. The date was 17 October 2016. It was established that the interview would be conducted by an Ecuadorian prosecutor, with Isgren and a police officer present. The interview was subsequently postponed until 14 November 2016, \"to ensure the presence of Mr Assange’s attorneys,\" according to a spokesman for Assange’s legal team. According to Assange's lawyer, the \"shape\" of the questions was still being discussed a week before the scheduled interview. Assange released his testimony to the public on 7 December. In his statement, Assange says that his Swedish lawyer was not actually permitted to be present during the interview, among many other complaints concerning the length and irregularities of the process and events leading up to it.\n\nOn 5 February 2016, it was announced by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights that the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention had found that Assange is effectively being held in arbitrary detention by the UK and Swedish governments in a legally-binding opinion. High Commissioner Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein reaffirmed later the same month that the opinion is based on binding international law. Immediately following the opinion's publication, Assange's lawyers asked the Stockholm District Court to lift the European arrest warrant. On 14 April, the Swedish prosecution authorities responded saying the warrant should be upheld. The Svea Court of Appeal decided to uphold the warrant on 16 September. After being asked by the British to review the case, the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention formally declined to do so in late November, saying that there was not enough new information provided to warrant such a review.\n\nAssange and his supporters have expressed concerns that upon his return to Sweden, Assange may be extradited to the United States to face charges related to his professional work, since Wikileaks has been under investigation in the US since at least 2010. On 13 January 2017, Wikileaks announced that Assange would agree to extradition to the United States if the Obama administration granted clemency to Chelsea Manning though he claimed the charges that might be pressed against him there had no merit. The offer followed one made via Assange's attorney in September 2016 that an extradition waiver would be made conditional on a pardon for Manning. Chelsea Manning's sentence was commuted on Obama's last day in office but Assange's lawyers stated that the 120 day delay in her release did not meet the conditions of their offer. As of May 2017, the United Kingdom is refusing to deny rumours that it has received extradition requests from the United States.\n\nTwo weeks before the Swedish arrest warrant for Assange was dropped, one of his lawyers, Per Samuelson, reiterated his opposition to it saying \"With the Supreme Court's own reasoning, his detention should now be rescinded because we can now prove that the U.S. is hunting Julian Assange.\" This followed public statements made by American President Donald Trump, CIA Director Mike Pompeo, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions as to the appropriateness of charging Assange in the U.S. with crimes related to WikiLeaks.\n\n"}
{"id": "6068539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6068539", "title": "Bankruptcy in China", "text": "Bankruptcy in China\n\nThe Enterprise Bankruptcy Law of the People's Republic of China (trial Implementation) was first passed in 1986. On 1 June 2007, the new Enterprise Bankruptcy Law of the PRC came into force. It contains 136 articles, almost 100 more than the 1986 law it replaced, and consequently it is thought to be more complete legally. \n\nThe Enterprise Bankruptcy Law of the PRC was adopted in August 27, 2006, and became effective since June 1, 2007.\n\n Chapter 1 General Provisions\n\nThe Enterprise Bankruptcy Law of the PRC 2007 applies only to the mainland of China. Due to the \"One Country, Two Systems\" policy of the PRC, different laws and regulations regarding to bankruptcy apply in Hong Kong and Macau.\n\n"}
{"id": "9199730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9199730", "title": "Breakaway PPV", "text": "Breakaway PPV\n\nBreakaway PPV was a Canadian English language regional pay-per-view television provider in Western Canada and the territories. Breakaway is jointly owned by the parent companies of the Vancouver Canucks, Calgary Flames, and Edmonton Oilers at 33.33% each. Licensed in 2000, its sole offerings were regional pay-per-view broadcasts of National Hockey League games involving the aforementioned teams which are not available through other broadcast or cable channels. The Breakaway name was not used on-air; the services were branded as \"Canucks TV\", \"Flames PPV\", and \"Oilers PPV\" respectively.\n\nThe service has not operated since the end of the 2009–10 NHL season – beginning with the 2010-11 NHL season, Sportsnet secured long-term deals for the packages of Canucks, Oilers, and Flames regional broadcasts previously allocated to Breakaway, and established new regional sub-feeds carried with Sportsnet One to serve as overflow channels in case of programming conflicts. Despite its dormancy, the CRTC continued to issue interim license renewals for the service through August 2013\n\nBreakaway was not affiliated with a similar pay-per-view package of Ottawa Senators games, branded as \"Sens TV\", which was offered over roughly the same timeframe. Instead, the Senators distributed these games through the main incumbent PPV provider serving each cable or satellite provider (namely Viewers Choice, Vu!, or Shaw PPV). It too was discontinued in favour of a deal with Sportsnet One in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "15253905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15253905", "title": "Building and Construction Authority", "text": "Building and Construction Authority\n\nThe Building and Construction Authority (Abbreviation: BCA; ) is a statutory board under the Ministry of National Development of the Singapore Government. It was established on 1 April 1999 through the merger of the Construction Industry Development Board and the Building Control Division of the former Public Works Department.\n\nThe primary role of BCA is to develop and regulate Singapore's building and construction industry.\n\nBCA ensures that buildings in Singapore are designed, constructed and maintained to high standards of safety through its building regulatory system.\n\nIn October 2004, BCA issued a window retrofitting order, requiring aluminium rivets fitted on casement windows to be replaced with stainless steel rivets. Since the order came into force, BCA and the Housing Development Board (HDB) have been urging property owners and tenants to practise window safety through a public campaign. Every year, 6 June and 12 December have been designated as “Window Safety Days”, where property owners and tenants are encouraged to check their windows at least once every six months.\n\nBCA is also the lead agency in Singapore in regulating amusement rides to protect public safety. In July 2011, a new regulatory framework was introduced to protect the safety of ride-goers in Singapore.\n\nBCA actively promotes the use of green building technologies and designs through its Green Building Masterplan and various initiatives. Under the second Green Building Masterplan which was launched in 2009, BCA seeks to achieve the national target of greening at least 80% of the buildings in Singapore by 2030.\n\nThe BCA Green Mark Scheme was launched in 2005 to promote sustainability in the built environment and raise environmental awareness among developers, designers and builders. It assesses the environmental friendliness and energy efficiency of buildings. In 2005, there were only 17 Green Mark building projects in Singapore.\n\nIn 2009, BCA launched South-East Asia’s first Zero Energy Building (ZEB) located at the BCA Academy of the Built Environment. The ZEB was retrofitted from an existing building and serves as a test-bedding centre for green building technologies. The building is expected to be about 40-50% more efficient than an office building of similar layout.\n\nIn 2010, BCA became the first government agency outside North America to be conferred the Aspen Institute’s Energy and Environment Award (Government) for its comprehensive policies and programmes in steering development of green buildings and sustainable construction. In 2011, Singapore was ranked first in green building policies, before advanced cities like Tokyo, Sydney and Seoul, in a study conducted by Solidiance on Asia-Pacific cities.\n\nIn December 2011, there are more than 940 green building projects, translating to a gross floor area of about 300 million ft2, or 12% of Singapore’s total gross floor area. The BCA Green Mark Scheme includes districts, parks, infrastructure, office interiors, and residential and non-residential buildings. In 2011, the Scheme was extended to include restaurants and existing schools. The scheme has also extended its reach beyond Singapore . More than 120 projects in countries like China, Malaysia, Vietnam, Brunei, India, Thailand, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, The Philippines and Tanzania have applied for the Green Mark certification.\n\nBCA clinched the inaugural Regional Leadership Award, one of the six awards handed out at the World Green Building Council Government Leadership Awards 2011, for its Green Building Masterplan and leadership in the green building movement in Asia Pacific.\n\nBCA collaborates with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to promote sustainable building practices. In 2011, BCA and UNEP finalised an agreement establishing BCA’s Centre for Sustainable Buildings as a “Centre Collaborating with UNEP”, the first in Asia. Through the collaboration, both BCA and UNEP will provide policy advice and outreach activities related to sustainable building resource management in sector in tropical cities and regions worldwide.\n\nBCA organised the second International Green Building Conference in September 2011 during the Singapore Green Building Week. The event attracted close to 1,000 delegates from over 32 countries, including industry experts, practitioners, and policy-makers, Other green building events that BCA conducts include the roving BCA Green Building Exhibitions with green building tips and information for residents to make their homes more environmentally friendly. The annual BCA Awards recognises sustainable buildings, and honous industry professionals committed to safe, high quality and user-friendly buildings.\n\nIn 2016, BCA set up the world's first high-rise rotatable laboratory for the tropics - the BCA SkyLab. Modelled after the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory's FLEXLAB, the facility is a rotatable test facility pivotal to developing energy efficient building technologies.\n\nIn 1990, BCA introduced the Code on Barrier-Free Accessibility, reshaping the accessibility landscape of Singapore’s built environment by improving inter-connectivity between buildings and upgrading existing buildings to make them more accessible. A $40 million fund has been set aside to co-fund voluntary upgrading on basic barrier-free features over a period of five years. Additionally, BCA has legislative measures in place to ensure continued compliance to the Code and to prevent misuse of barrier-free facilities.\n\nBCA also promotes Universal Design (UD) for buildings to cater to the needs of all users, including the young, the elderly, persons with disabilities, and parents with infants. The BCA Universal Design Award was launched in early 2007, recognising outstanding achievements by building developers and owners to incorporate barrier-free accessibility and UD in their developments.\n\nBCA maintains an Accessibility Rating System on its Friendly Buildings portal, which classifies buildings according to levels of user-friendliness. The system provides detailed information such as the location of accessible entrances and other accessibility facilities, to aid building users on locating accessible buildings in Singapore. By December 2011, about 3,000 buildings have been rated of which 2,200 of them are accessible.\n\nBCA has put in place many schemes to help raise the construction industry’s skill levels and professionalism, design and construction capabilities, niche expertise, and the export of construction-related services. Some examples are the Construction Registration of Tradesmen (CoreTrade) Scheme to establish a core base of trade foremen and tradesmen, and the BCA Academy of the Built Environment to develop a professional workforce and encourage the adoption of innovative technologies. BCA International, a wholly owned subsidiary formed by BCA, paves the way for local construction companies to offer a full scope of expertise and value-added services to assist overseas governments and clients in developing excellent built environments.\n\nBCA also established a Construction Productivity Gallery and a Centre for Lean and Virtual Construction to guide and advise construction firms on the latest construction technologies and re-engineering processes to achieve time and labour savings. This is in line with Singapore’s national productivity drive, where BCA introduced a S$250-million Construction Productivity and Capability Fund (CPCF) in June 2010 to help the construction industry build up a skilled workforce, adopt more advanced construction technologies, and enhance building capability in niche areas.\n\nBCA strongly promotes the adoption of Building Information Modelling (BIM), which allows professionals to work on a building project digitally before it is built. BCA targets to get 80 per cent of the industry to use BIM widely by 2015, and is working with the public sector to take the lead in driving greater BIM adoptiont.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5902", "title": "Capital punishment", "text": "Capital punishment\n\nCapital punishment, also known as the death penalty, is a government-sanctioned practice whereby a person is killed by the state as a punishment for a crime. The sentence that someone be punished in such a manner is referred to as a death sentence, whereas the act of carrying out the sentence is known as an execution. Crimes that are punishable by death are known as capital crimes or capital offences, and they commonly include offences such as murder, treason, espionage, war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. Etymologically, the term \"capital\" (lit. \"of the head\", derived via the Latin ' from ', \"head\") in this context alluded to execution by beheading.\n\nFifty-six countries retain capital punishment, 106 countries have completely abolished it \"de jure\" for all crimes, eight have abolished it for ordinary crimes (while maintaining it for special circumstances such as war crimes), and 28 are abolitionist in practice.\n\nCapital punishment is a matter of active controversy in several countries and states, and positions can vary within a single political ideology or cultural region. In the European Union, Article 2 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union prohibits the use of capital punishment. The Council of Europe, which has 47 member states, has sought to abolish the use of the death penalty by its members absolutely, through Protocol 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights. However, this only affects those member states which have signed and ratified it, and they do not include Armenia, Russia, and Azerbaijan.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly has adopted, in 2007, 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2014, non-binding resolutions calling for a global moratorium on executions, with a view to eventual abolition. Although most nations have abolished capital punishment, over 60% of the world's population live in countries where the death penalty is retained, such as China, India, the United States, Indonesia, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Egypt, Iran, among all mostly Islamic countries, as is maintained in Japan and Sri Lanka.\n\nExecution of criminals has been used by nearly all societies since the beginning of civilizations on Earth. Until the nineteenth century, without developed prison systems, there was frequently no workable alternative to insure deterrence and incapacitation of criminals. The executions themselves often involved torture with cruel methods such as the breaking wheel.\n\nThe use of formal execution extends to the beginning of recorded history. Most historical records and various primitive tribal practices indicate that the death penalty was a part of their justice system. Communal punishment for wrongdoing generally included compensation by the wrongdoer, corporal punishment, shunning, banishment and execution. Usually, compensation and shunning were enough as a form of justice. The response to crime committed by neighbouring tribes or communities included a formal apology, compensation or blood feuds.\n\nA blood feud or vendetta occurs when arbitration between families or tribes fails or an arbitration system is non-existent. This form of justice was common before the emergence of an arbitration system based on state or organized religion. It may result from crime, land disputes or a code of honour. \"Acts of retaliation underscore the ability of the social collective to defend itself and demonstrate to enemies (as well as potential allies) that injury to property, rights, or the person will not go unpunished.\" However, in practice, it is often difficult to distinguish between a war of vendetta and one of conquest.\n\nIn most countries that practise capital punishment, it is now reserved for murder, terrorism, war crimes, espionage, treason, or as part of military justice. In some countries sexual crimes, such as rape, fornication, adultery, incest and sodomy, carry the death penalty, as do religious crimes such as Hudud and Qisas crimes, such as apostasy (formal renunciation of the state religion), blasphemy, moharebeh, hirabah, Fasad, Mofsed-e-filarz and witchcraft. In many countries that use the death penalty, drug trafficking is also a capital offence. In China, human trafficking and serious cases of corruption and financial crimes are punished by the death penalty. In militaries around the world courts-martial have imposed death sentences for offences such as cowardice, desertion, insubordination, and mutiny.\n\nElaborations of tribal arbitration of feuds included peace settlements often done in a religious context and compensation system. Compensation was based on the principle of \"substitution\" which might include material (for example, cattle, slave) compensation, exchange of brides or grooms, or payment of the blood debt. Settlement rules could allow for animal blood to replace human blood, or transfers of property or blood money or in some case an offer of a person for execution. The person offered for execution did not have to be an original perpetrator of the crime because the social system was based on tribes and clans, not individuals. Blood feuds could be regulated at meetings, such as the Norsemen \"things\". Systems deriving from blood feuds may survive alongside more advanced legal systems or be given recognition by courts (for example, trial by combat). One of the more modern refinements of the blood feud is the duel.\n\nIn certain parts of the world, nations in the form of ancient republics, monarchies or tribal oligarchies emerged. These nations were often united by common linguistic, religious or family ties. Moreover, expansion of these nations often occurred by conquest of neighbouring tribes or nations. Consequently, various classes of royalty, nobility, various commoners and slaves emerged. Accordingly, the systems of tribal arbitration were submerged into a more unified system of justice which formalized the relation between the different \"social classes\" rather than \"tribes\". The earliest and most famous example is Code of Hammurabi which set the different punishment and compensation, according to the different class/group of victims and perpetrators. The Torah (Jewish Law), also known as the Pentateuch (the first five books of the Christian Old Testament), lays down the death penalty for murder, kidnapping, practicing magic, violation of the Sabbath, blasphemy, and a wide range of sexual crimes, although evidence suggests that actual executions were rare.\n\nA further example comes from Ancient Greece, where the Athenian legal system was first written down by Draco in about 621 BC: the death penalty was applied for a particularly wide range of crimes, though Solon later repealed Draco's code and published new laws, retaining only Draco's homicide statutes. The word draconian derives from Draco's laws. The Romans also used death penalty for a wide range of offences.\n\nAlthough many are executed in the People's Republic of China each year in the present day, there was a time in the Tang dynasty (618–907) when the death penalty was abolished. This was in the year 747, enacted by Emperor Xuanzong of Tang (r. 712–756). When abolishing the death penalty Xuanzong ordered his officials to refer to the nearest regulation by analogy when sentencing those found guilty of crimes for which the prescribed punishment was execution. Thus depending on the severity of the crime a punishment of severe scourging with the thick rod or of exile to the remote Lingnan region might take the place of capital punishment. However, the death penalty was restored only 12 years later in 759 in response to the An Lushan Rebellion. At this time in the Tang dynasty only the emperor had the authority to sentence criminals to execution. Under Xuanzong capital punishment was relatively infrequent, with only 24 executions in the year 730 and 58 executions in the year 736.\nThe two most common forms of execution in the Tang dynasty were strangulation and decapitation, which were the prescribed methods of execution for 144 and 89 offences respectively. Strangulation was the prescribed sentence for lodging an accusation against one's parents or grandparents with a magistrate, scheming to kidnap a person and sell them into slavery and opening a coffin while desecrating a tomb. Decapitation was the method of execution prescribed for more serious crimes such as treason and sedition. Despite the great discomfort involved, most of the Tang Chinese preferred strangulation to decapitation, as a result of the traditional Tang Chinese belief that the body is a gift from the parents and that it is, therefore, disrespectful to one's ancestors to die without returning one's body to the grave intact.\n\nSome further forms of capital punishment were practised in the Tang dynasty, of which the first two that follow at least were extralegal. The first of these was scourging to death with the thick rod which was common throughout the Tang dynasty especially in cases of gross corruption. The second was truncation, in which the convicted person was cut in two at the waist with a fodder knife and then left to bleed to death. A further form of execution called Ling Chi (slow slicing), or death by/of a thousand cuts, was used from the close of the Tang dynasty (around 900) to its abolition in 1905.\n\nWhen a minister of the fifth grade or above received a death sentence the emperor might grant him a special dispensation allowing him to commit suicide in lieu of execution. Even when this privilege was not granted, the law required that the condemned minister be provided with food and ale by his keepers and transported to the execution ground in a cart rather than having to walk there.\n\nNearly all executions under the Tang dynasty took place in public as a warning to the population. The heads of the executed were displayed on poles or spears. When local authorities decapitated a convicted criminal, the head was boxed and sent to the capital as proof of identity and that the execution had taken place.\n\nIn medieval and early modern Europe, before the development of modern prison systems, the death penalty was also used as a generalized form of punishment. During the reign of Henry VIII of England, as many as 72,000 people are estimated to have been executed.\n\nIn early modern Europe, a massive moral panic regarding witchcraft swept across Europe and later the European colonies in North America. During this period, there were widespread claims that malevolent Satanic witches were operating as an organized threat to Christendom. As a result, tens of thousands of women were prosecuted for witchcraft and executed through the witch trials of the early modern period (between the 15th and 18th centuries).\n\nThe death penalty also targeted sexual offences such as sodomy. In England, the Buggery Act 1533 stipulated hanging as punishment for \"buggery\". James Pratt and John Smith were the last two Englishmen to be executed for sodomy in 1835.\n\nDespite the wide use of the death penalty, calls for reform were not unknown. The 12th century Jewish legal scholar, Moses Maimonides, wrote, \"It is better and more satisfactory to acquit a thousand guilty persons than to put a single innocent man to death.\" He argued that executing an accused criminal on anything less than absolute certainty would lead to a slippery slope of decreasing burdens of proof, until we would be convicting merely \"according to the judge's caprice\". Maimonides's concern was maintaining popular respect for law, and he saw errors of commission as much more threatening than errors of omission.\n\nThe Abbasid Caliphs in Baghdad, such as Al-Mu'tadid, were often cruel in their punishments.\n\nIn the last several centuries, with the emergence of modern nation states, justice came to be increasingly associated with the concept of natural and legal rights. The period saw an increase in standing police forces and permanent penitential institutions. Rational choice theory, a utilitarian approach to criminology which justifies punishment as a form of deterrence as opposed to retribution, can be traced back to Cesare Beccaria, whose influential treatise \"On Crimes and Punishments\" (1764) was the first detailed analysis of capital punishment to demand the abolition of the death penalty. Jeremy Bentham, regarded as the founder of modern utilitarianism, also called for the abolition of the death penalty. Beccaria, and later Charles Dickens and Karl Marx noted the incidence of increased violent criminality at the times and places of executions. Official recognition of this phenomenon led to executions being carried out inside prisons, away from public view.\n\nIn England in the 18th century, when there was no police force, there was a large increase in the number of capital offences to more than 200. These were mainly property offences, for example cutting down a cherry tree in an orchard. In 1820, there were 160, including crimes such as shoplifting, petty theft or stealing cattle. The severity of the so-called Bloody Code was often tempered by juries who refused to convict, or judges, in the case of petty theft, who arbitrarily set the value stolen at below the statutory level for a capital crime.\n\nIn Nazi Germany there were three types of capital punishment; hanging, decapitation and death by shooting. Also, modern military organisations employed capital punishment as a means of maintaining military discipline. In the past, cowardice, absence without leave, desertion, insubordination, looting, shirking under enemy fire and disobeying orders were often crimes punishable by death (see decimation and running the gauntlet). One method of execution, since firearms came into common use, has also been firing squad, although some countries use execution with a single shot to the head or neck.\nVarious authoritarian states—for example those with fascist or Communist governments—employed the death penalty as a potent means of political oppression. According to Robert Conquest, the leading expert on , more than one million Soviet citizens were executed during the Great Terror of 1937–38, almost all by a bullet to the back of the head. Mao Zedong publicly stated that \"800,000\" people had been executed in China during the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976). Partly as a response to such excesses, civil rights organizations started to place increasing emphasis on the concept of human rights and an abolition of the death penalty.\n\nAmong countries around the world, all European (except Belarus) and many Oceanic states (including Australia, New Zealand and East Timor), and Canada have abolished capital punishment. In Latin America, most states have completely abolished the use of capital punishment, while some countries such as Brazil and Guatemala allow for capital punishment only in exceptional situations, such as treason committed during wartime. The United States (the federal government and 31 of the states), some Caribbean countries and the majority of countries in Asia (for example, Japan and India) retain capital punishment. In Africa, less than half of countries retain it, for example Botswana and Zambia. South Africa abolished the death penalty in 1995.\n\nAbolition was often adopted due to political change, as when countries shifted from authoritarianism to democracy, or when it became an entry condition for the European Union. The United States is a notable exception: some states have had bans on capital punishment for decades, the earliest being Michigan where it was abolished in 1846, while other states still actively use it today. The death penalty in the United States remains a contentious issue which is hotly debated.\n\nIn retentionist countries, the debate is sometimes revived when a miscarriage of justice has occurred though this tends to cause legislative efforts to improve the judicial process rather than to abolish the death penalty. In abolitionist countries, the debate is sometimes revived by particularly brutal murders though few countries have brought it back after abolishing it. However, a spike in serious, violent crimes, such as murders or terrorist attacks, has prompted some countries to effectively end the moratorium on the death penalty. One notable example is Pakistan which in December 2014 lifted a six-year moratorium on executions after the Peshawar school massacre during which 132 students and 9 members of staff of the Army Public School and Degree College Peshawar were killed by Taliban terrorists. Since then, Pakistan has executed over 400 convicts.\n\nIn 2017 two major countries, Turkey and the Philippines, saw their executives making moves to reinstate the death penalty. , passage of the law in the Philippines awaits the Senate's approval.\n\nThe public opinion on the death penalty varies considerably by country and by the crime in question. Countries where a majority of people are against execution include Norway where only 25 percent are in favour. Most French, Finns and Italians also oppose the death penalty. A 2016 Gallup poll shows that 60% of Americans support the death penalty, down from 64% in 2010 65% in 2006 and 68% in 2001. A 2010 poll found that 61% of Americans would choose a penalty other than the death sentence for murder.\n\nThe support and sentencing of capital punishment has been growing in India in the 2010s due to anger over several recent brutal cases of rape, even though actual executions are comparatively rare. While support for the death penalty for murder is still high in China, executions have dropped precipitously, with 3,000 executed in 2012 versus 12,000 in 2002. A poll in South Africa found that 76 percent of millennium generation South Africans support re-introduction of the death penalty, which is abolished in South Africa. A 2017 poll found younger Mexicans are more likely to support capital punishment than older ones. 57% of Brazilians support the death penalty. The age group that shows the greatest support for execution of those condemned is the 25 to 34-year-old category, in which 61% say they are in favor.\n\nTrends in most of the world have long been to move to private and less painful executions. France developed the guillotine for this reason in the final years of the 18th century, while Britain banned drawing and quartering in the early 19th century. Hanging by turning the victim off a ladder or by kicking a stool or a bucket, which causes death by suffocation, was replaced by long drop \"hanging\" where the subject is dropped a longer distance to dislocate the neck and sever the spinal cord. Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Qajar, Shah of Persia (1896-1907) introduced throat-cutting and blowing from a gun (close-range cannon fire) as quick and relatively painless alternatives to more torturous methods of executions used at that time. In the United States, electrocution and gas inhalation were introduced as more humane alternatives to hanging, but have been almost entirely superseded by lethal injection. A small number of countries still employ slow hanging methods and stoning.\n\nA study of executions carried out in the United States between 1977 and 2001 indicated that at least 34 of the 749 executions, or 4.5%, involved \"unanticipated problems or delays that caused, at least arguably, unnecessary agony for the prisoner or that reflect gross incompetence of the executioner\". The rate of these \"botched executions\" remained steady over the period of the study. A separate study published in \"The Lancet\" in 2005 found that in 43% of cases of lethal injection, the blood level of hypnotics was insufficient to guarantee unconsciousness. However, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2008 (\"Baze v. Rees\") and again in 2015 (\"Glossip v. Gross\") that lethal injection does not constitute cruel and unusual punishment.\n\nMany countries have abolished capital punishment either in law or in practice. Since World War II there has been a trend toward abolishing capital punishment. Capital punishment has been completely abolished by 102 countries, a further six have done so for all offences except under special circumstances and 32 more have abolished it in practice because they have not used it for at least 10 years and are believed to have a policy or established practice against carrying out executions.\n\nThe death penalty was banned in China between 747 and 759. In Japan, Emperor Saga abolished the death penalty in 818 under the influence of Shinto and it lasted until 1156.\n\nIn England, a public statement of opposition was included in The Twelve Conclusions of the Lollards, written in 1395. Sir Thomas More's \"Utopia\", published in 1516, debated the benefits of the death penalty in dialogue form, coming to no firm conclusion. More was himself executed for treason in 1535. More recent opposition to the death penalty stemmed from the book of the Italian Cesare Beccaria \"Dei Delitti e Delle Pene\" (\"On Crimes and Punishments\"), published in 1764. In this book, Beccaria aimed to demonstrate not only the injustice, but even the futility from the point of view of social welfare, of torture and the death penalty. Influenced by the book, Grand Duke Leopold II of Habsburg, the future Emperor of Austria, abolished the death penalty in the then-independent Grand Duchy of Tuscany, the first permanent abolition in modern times. On 30 November 1786, after having \"de facto\" blocked executions (the last was in 1769), Leopold promulgated the reform of the penal code that abolished the death penalty and ordered the destruction of all the instruments for capital execution in his land. In 2000, Tuscany's regional authorities instituted an annual holiday on 30 November to commemorate the event. The event is commemorated on this day by 300 cities around the world celebrating Cities for Life Day.\n\nThe Roman Republic banned capital punishment in 1849. Venezuela followed suit and abolished the death penalty in 1863 and San Marino did so in 1865. The last execution in San Marino had taken place in 1468. In Portugal, after legislative proposals in 1852 and 1863, the death penalty was abolished in 1867. The last execution of the death penalty in Brazil was 1876, from there all the condemnations were commuted by the Emperor Pedro II until it's abolition for civil offences and military offences in peacetime in 1891. The penalty for crimes committed in peacetime was then reinstated and abolished again twice (1938–53 and 1969–78), but on those occasions it was restricted to acts of terrorism or subversion considered \"internal warfare\" and all sentence were commuted and were not carried out.\n\nAbolition occurred in Canada in 1976 (except for some military offences, with complete abolition in 1998), in France in 1981, and in Australia in 1973 (although the state of Western Australia retained the penalty until 1984). In 1977, the United Nations General Assembly affirmed in a formal resolution that throughout the world, it is desirable to \"progressively restrict the number of offences for which the death penalty might be imposed, with a view to the desirability of abolishing this punishment\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, it was abolished for murder (leaving only treason, piracy with violence, arson in royal dockyards and a number of wartime military offences as capital crimes) for a five-year experiment in 1965 and permanently in 1969, the last execution having taken place in 1964. It was abolished for all peacetime offences in 1998.\n\nIn the United States, Michigan was the first state to ban the death penalty, on 18 May 1846. The death penalty was declared unconstitutional between 1972 and 1976 based on the \"Furman v. Georgia\" case, but the 1976 \"Gregg v. Georgia\" case once again permitted the death penalty under certain circumstances. Further limitations were placed on the death penalty in \"Atkins v. Virginia\" (death penalty unconstitutional for people with an intellectual disability) and \"Roper v. Simmons\" (death penalty unconstitutional if defendant was under age 18 at the time the crime was committed). In the United States, 18 states and the District of Columbia ban capital punishment.\n\nAbolitionists believe capital punishment is the worst violation of human rights, because the right to life is the most important, and capital punishment violates it without necessity and inflicts to the condemned a psychological torture. Human rights activists oppose the death penalty, calling it \"cruel, inhuman, and degrading punishment\". Amnesty International considers it to be \"the ultimate, irreversible denial of Human Rights\".\n\nMost countries, including almost all First World nations, have abolished capital punishment either in law or in practice. Notable exceptions are the United States, China, India, Japan, and most Islamic states. The United States is the only Western country to still use the death penalty.\n\nSince World War II, there has been a trend toward abolishing the death penalty. 58 countries retain the death penalty in active use, 102 countries have abolished capital punishment altogether, six have done so for all offences except under special circumstances, and 32 more have abolished it in practice because they have not used it for at least 10 years and are believed to have a policy or established practice against carrying out executions.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, 23 countries are known to have performed executions in 2016. There are countries which do not publish information on the use of capital punishment, most significantly China and North Korea. As per Amnesty International, around 1000 prisoners were executed in 2017.\n\nThe use of the death penalty is becoming increasingly restrained in some retentionist countries including Taiwan and Singapore. Indonesia carried out no executions between November 2008 and March 2013. Singapore, Japan and the United States are the only developed countries that are classified by Amnesty International as 'retentionist' (South Korea is classified as 'abolitionist in practice'). Nearly all retentionist countries are situated in Asia, Africa and the Caribbean. The only retentionist country in Europe is Belarus. The death penalty was overwhelmingly practised in poor and authoritarian states, which often employed the death penalty as a tool of political oppression. During the 1980s, the democratisation of Latin America swelled the ranks of abolitionist countries.\n\nThis was soon followed by the fall of Communism in Europe. Many of the countries which restored democracy aspired to enter the EU. The European Union and the Council of Europe both strictly require member states not to practise the death penalty (see Capital punishment in Europe). Public support for the death penalty in the EU varies. The last execution in a member state of the present-day Council of Europe took place in 1997 in Ukraine. In contrast, the rapid industrialisation in Asia has seen an increase in the number of developed countries which are also retentionist. In these countries, the death penalty retains strong public support, and the matter receives little attention from the government or the media; in China there is a small but significant and growing movement to abolish the death penalty altogether. This trend has been followed by some African and Middle Eastern countries where support for the death penalty remains high.\n\nSome countries have resumed practising the death penalty after having previously suspended the practice for long periods. The United States suspended executions in 1972 but resumed them in 1976; there was no execution in India between 1995 and 2004; and Sri Lanka declared an end to its moratorium on the death penalty on 20 November 2004, although it has not yet performed any further executions. The Philippines re-introduced the death penalty in 1993 after abolishing it in 1987, but again abolished it in 2006.\n\nThe United States and Japan are the only developed countries to have recently carried out executions. The U.S. federal government, the U.S. military, and 31 states have a valid death penalty statute, and over 1,400 executions have been carried in the United States since it reinstated the death penalty in 1976, including 28 in 2015 alone. Japan has 111 inmates with finalized death sentences ; after executing Shoko Asahara and six other senior members of Aum Shinrikyo, a cult group which carried out multiple atrocities involving thousands of victims such as the Tokyo subway sarin attack, which took place on March 20, 1995, on July 6 the executions of the remaining six senior members took place on July 26.\n\nThe most recent country to abolish the death penalty was Burkina Faso in June 2018.\n\nThe death penalty for juvenile offenders (criminals aged under 18 years at the time of their crime although the legal or accepted definition of \"juvenile offender\" may vary from one jurisdiction to another) has become increasingly rare. Considering the age of majority is still not 18 in some countries or has not been clearly defined in law, since 1990 ten countries have executed offenders who were considered juveniles at the time of their crimes: The People's Republic of China (PRC), Bangladesh, Democratic Republic of Congo, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Nigeria, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, the United States, and Yemen. The PRC, Pakistan, the United States, Yemen and Iran have since raised the minimum age to 18. Amnesty International has recorded 61 verified executions since then, in several countries, of both juveniles and adults who had been convicted of committing their offences as juveniles. The PRC does not allow for the execution of those under 18, but child executions have reportedly taken place.\n\nStarting in 1642 within the then British American colonies until present day, an estimated 365 juvenile offenders were executed by the British Colonial authorities and subsequently by State authorities and the federal government of the United States. The United States Supreme Court abolished capital punishment for offenders under the age of 16 in \"Thompson v. Oklahoma\" (1988), and for all juveniles in \"Roper v. Simmons\" (2005).\n\nBetween 2005 and May 2008, Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Yemen were reported to have executed child offenders, the largest number occurring in Iran.\n\nDuring Hassan Rouhani’s current tenure as president of Iran since 2013, at least 3,602 death sentences have been carried out. This includes the executions of 34 juvenile offenders.\n\nThe United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which forbids capital punishment for juveniles under article 37(a), has been signed by all countries and subsequently ratified by all signatories with the exceptions of Somalia and the United States (despite the US Supreme Court decisions abolishing the practice). The UN Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights maintains that the death penalty for juveniles has become contrary to a jus cogens of customary international law. A majority of countries are also party to the U.N. International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (whose Article 6.5 also states that \"Sentence of death shall not be imposed for crimes committed by persons below eighteen years of age...\").\n\nIran, despite its ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, was the world's largest executioner of juvenile offenders, for which it has been the subject of broad international condemnation; the country's record is the focus of the Stop Child Executions Campaign. But on 10 February 2012, Iran's parliament changed controversial laws relating to the execution of juveniles. In the new legislation the age of 18 (solar year) would be applied to accused of both genders and juvenile offenders must be sentenced pursuant to a separate law specifically dealing with juveniles. Based on the Islamic law which now seems to have been revised, girls at the age of 9 and boys at 15 of lunar year (11 days shorter than a solar year) are deemed fully responsible for their crimes. Iran accounted for two-thirds of the global total of such executions, and currently has approximately 140 people considered as juveniles awaiting execution for crimes committed (up from 71 in 2007). The past executions of Mahmoud Asgari, Ayaz Marhoni and Makwan Moloudzadeh became the focus of Iran's child capital punishment policy and the judicial system that hands down such sentences.\n\nSaudi Arabia also executes criminals who were minors at the time of the offence. In 2013, Saudi Arabia was the center of an international controversy after it executed Rizana Nafeek, a Sri Lankan domestic worker, who was believed to have been 17 years old at the time of the crime.\n\nJapan has not executed juvenile criminals after August 1997, when they executed Norio Nagayama, a spree killer who had been convicted of shooting four people dead in the late 1960s. Nagayama's case created the eponymously named \"Nagayama\" \"standards\", which take into account factors such as the number of victims, brutality and social impact of the crimes. The standards have been used in determining whether to apply the death sentence in murder cases. Teruhiko Seki, convicted of murdering four members including a 4-year-old daughter and raping a 15-year-old daughter of a family in 1992, became the second inmate to be hanged for a crime committed as a minor in the first such execution in 20 years after Nagayama on December 19, 2017. Takayuki Otsuki, who was convicted of raping and strangling a 23-year-old woman and subsequently strangling her 11-month-old daughter to death on April 14, 1999, when he was 18, is another inmate sentenced to death, and his request for retrial has been rejected by the Supreme Court of Japan.\n\nThere is evidence that child executions are taking place in the parts of Somalia controlled by the Islamic Courts Union (ICU). In October 2008, a girl, Aisha Ibrahim Dhuhulow was buried up to her neck at a football stadium, then stoned to death in front of more than 1,000 people. Somalia's established Transitional Federal Government announced in November 2009 (reiterated in 2013) that it plans to ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This move was lauded by UNICEF as a welcome attempt to secure children's rights in the country.\n\nThe following methods of execution were used in 2015:\n\nA public execution is a form of capital punishment which \"members of the general public may voluntarily attend\". This definition excludes the presence of a small number of witnesses randomly selected to assure executive accountability. While today the great majority of the world considers public executions to be distasteful and most countries have outlawed the practice, throughout much of history executions were performed publicly as a means for the state to demonstrate \"its power before those who fell under its jurisdiction be they criminals, enemies, or political opponents\". Additionally, it afforded the public a chance to witness \"what was considered a great spectacle\".\n\nSocial historians note that beginning in the 20th century in the U.S. and western Europe death in general became increasingly shielded from public view, occurring more and more behind the closed doors of the hospital. Executions were likewise moved behind the walls of the penitentiary. The last formal public executions occurred in 1868 in Britain, in 1936 in the U.S. and in 1939 in France.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, in 2012, \"public executions were known to have been carried out in Iran, North Korea, Saudi Arabia and Somalia\". There have been reports of public executions carried out by state and non-state actors in Hamas-controlled Gaza, Syria, Afghanistan, and Yemen. Executions which can be classified as public were also carried out in the U.S. states of Florida and Utah as of 1992.\n\nCrimes against humanity such as genocide are usually punishable by death in countries retaining capital punishment. Death sentences for such crimes were handed down and carried out during the Nuremberg Trials in 1946 and the Tokyo Trials in 1948, but the current International Criminal Court does not use capital punishment. The maximum penalty available to the International Criminal Court is life imprisonment.\n\nIntentional homicide is punishable by death in most countries retaining capital punishment, but generally provided it involves an aggravating factor required by statute or judicial precedents.\n\nSome countries provide the death penalty for drug trafficking and related offences, mostly in West Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia and East Asia. Among countries who regularly execute drug offenders are China, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Iran and Singapore.\n\nOther crimes that are punishable by death in some countries include terrorism, treason, espionage, crimes against the state (most countries with the death penalty), political protests (Saudi Arabia), rape (China, India, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Brunei, etc.), economic crimes (China), kidnapping (China), separatism (China), adultery (Saudi Arabia, Iran, Qatar, Brunei, etc.), sodomy (Saudi Arabia, Iran, Brunei, etc.), and religious Hudud offences such as apostasy (Saudi Arabia, Iran, Sudan, etc.), blasphemy (Saudi Arabia, Iran, Pakistan), Moharebeh (Iran), Witchcraft and Sorcery (Saudi Arabia). and forms of aggravated robbery/hirabah, (Saudi Arabia, Kenya, Zambia).\n\nCapital punishment is controversial. Death penalty opponents regard the death penalty as inhumane and criticize it for its irreversibility. They argue also that capital punishment lacks deterrent effect, discriminates against minorities and the poor, and that it encourages a \"culture of violence\". There are many organizations worldwide, such as Amnesty International, and country-specific, such as the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), that have abolition of the death penalty as a fundamental purpose.\n\nAdvocates of the death penalty argue that it deters crime, is a good tool for police and prosecutors in plea bargaining, makes sure that convicted criminals do not offend again, and is a just penalty.\n\nSupporters of the death penalty argued that death penalty is morally justified when applied in murder especially with aggravating elements such as for murder of police officers, child murder, torture murder, multiple homicide and mass killing such as terrorism, massacre and genocide. This argument is strongly defended by New York Law School's Professor Robert Blecker, who says that the punishment must be painful in proportion to the crime. Eighteenth-century philosopher Immanuel Kant defended a more extreme position, according to which every murderer deserves to die on the grounds that loss of life is incomparable to any jail term.\n\nSome abolitionists argue that retribution is simply revenge and cannot be condoned. Others while accepting retribution as an element of criminal justice nonetheless argue that life without parole is a sufficient substitute. It is also argued that the punishing of a killing with another death is a relatively unique punishment for a violent act, because in general violent crimes are not punished by subjecting the perpetrator to a similar act (e.g. rapists are not punished by corporal punishment).\n\nAbolitionists believe capital punishment is the worst violation of human rights, because the right to life is the most important, and capital punishment violates it without necessity and inflicts to the condemned a psychological torture. Human rights activists oppose the death penalty, calling it \"cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment\". Amnesty International considers it to be \"the ultimate irreversible denial of Human Rights\". Albert Camus wrote in a 1956 book called \"Reflections on the Guillotine, Resistance, Rebellion & Death\":\n\nIn the classic doctrine of natural rights as expounded by for instance Locke and Blackstone, on the other hand, it is an important idea that the right to life can be forfeited. As John Stuart Mill explained in a speech given in Parliament against an amendment to abolish capital punishment for murder in 1868:\n\nIt is frequently argued that capital punishment leads to miscarriage of justice through the wrongful execution of innocent persons. Many people have been proclaimed innocent victims of the death penalty.\n\nSome have claimed that as many as 39 executions have been carried out in the face of compelling evidence of innocence or serious doubt about guilt in the US from 1992 through 2004. Newly available DNA evidence prevented the pending execution of more than 15 death row inmates during the same period in the US, but DNA evidence is only available in a fraction of capital cases. , 159 prisoners on death row have been exonerated by DNA or other evidence, which is seen as an indication that innocent prisoners have almost certainly been executed. It is impossible to assess how many have been wrongly executed, since courts do not generally investigate the innocence of a dead defendant, and defense attorneys tend to concentrate their efforts on clients whose lives can still be saved; however, there is strong evidence of innocence in many cases.\n\nImproper procedure may also result in unfair executions. For example, Amnesty International argues that in Singapore \"the Misuse of Drugs Act contains a series of presumptions which shift the burden of proof from the prosecution to the accused. This conflicts with the universally guaranteed right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty\". This refers to a situation when someone is caught with drugs. In this situation, in almost any jurisdiction, the prosecution has a prima facie case.\n\nOpponents of the death penalty argue that this punishment is being used more often against perpetrators from racial and ethnic minorities and from lower socioeconomic backgrounds, than against those criminals who come from a privileged background; and that the background of the victim also influences the outcome. Researchers have shown that white Americans are more likely to support the death penalty when told that it is mostly applied to African Americans, and that more stereotypically black-looking defendants are more likely to be sentenced to death if the case involves a white victim.\n\nThe United Nations introduced a resolution during the General Assembly's 62nd sessions in 2007 calling for a universal ban. The approval of a draft resolution by the Assembly's third committee, which deals with human rights issues, voted 99 to 52, with 33 abstentions, in favour of the resolution on 15 November 2007 and was put to a vote in the Assembly on 18 December.\n\nAgain in 2008, a large majority of states from all regions adopted a second resolution calling for a moratorium on the use of the death penalty in the UN General Assembly (Third Committee) on 20 November. 105 countries voted in favour of the draft resolution, 48 voted against and 31 abstained.\n\nA range of amendments proposed by a small minority of pro-death penalty countries were overwhelmingly defeated. It had in 2007 passed a non-binding resolution (by 104 to 54, with 29 abstentions) by asking its member states for \"a moratorium on executions with a view to abolishing the death penalty\".\n\nA number of regional conventions prohibit the death penalty, most notably, the Sixth Protocol (abolition in time of peace) and the 13th Protocol (abolition in all circumstances) to the European Convention on Human Rights. The same is also stated under the Second Protocol in the American Convention on Human Rights, which, however has not been ratified by all countries in the Americas, most notably Canada and the United States. Most relevant operative international treaties do not require its prohibition for cases of serious crime, most notably, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. This instead has, in common with several other treaties, an optional protocol prohibiting capital punishment and promoting its wider abolition.\n\nSeveral international organizations have made the abolition of the death penalty (during time of peace) a requirement of membership, most notably the European Union (EU) and the Council of Europe. The EU and the Council of Europe are willing to accept a moratorium as an interim measure. Thus, while Russia is a member of the Council of Europe, and the death penalty remains codified in its law, it has not made use of it since becoming a member of the Council – Russia has not executed anyone since 1996. With the exception of Russia (abolitionist in practice), Kazakhstan (abolitionist for ordinary crimes only), and Belarus (retentionist), all European countries are classified as abolitionist.\n\nLatvia abolished \"de jure\" the death penalty for war crimes in 2012, becoming the last EU member to do so.\n\nThe Protocol no.13 calls for the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances (including for war crimes). The majority of European countries have signed and ratified it. Some European countries have not done this, but all of them except Belarus and Kazakhstan have now abolished the death penalty in all circumstances (\"de jure\", and Russia \"de facto\"). Poland is the most recent country to ratify the protocol, on 28 August 2013.\nThe Protocol no.6 which prohibits the death penalty during peacetime has been ratified by all members of the European Council, except Russia (which has signed, but not ratified).\n\nThere are also other international abolitionist instruments, such as the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which has 81 parties; and the Protocol to the American Convention on Human Rights to Abolish the Death Penalty (for the Americas; ratified by 13 states).\n\nIn Turkey, over 500 people were sentenced to death after the 1980 Turkish coup d'état. About 50 of them were executed, the last one 25 October 1984. Then there was a \"de facto\" moratorium on the death penalty in Turkey. As a move towards EU membership, Turkey made some legal changes. The death penalty was removed from peacetime law by the National Assembly in August 2002, and in May 2004 Turkey amended its constitution in order to remove capital punishment in all circumstances. It ratified Protocol no. 13 to the European Convention on Human Rights in February 2006. As a result, Europe is a continent free of the death penalty in practice, all states but Russia, which has entered a moratorium, having ratified the Sixth Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, with the sole exception of Belarus, which is not a member of the Council of Europe. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been lobbying for Council of Europe observer states who practise the death penalty, the U.S. and Japan, to abolish it or lose their observer status. In addition to banning capital punishment for EU member states, the EU has also banned detainee transfers in cases where the receiving party may seek the death penalty.\n\nSub-Saharan African countries that have recently abolished the death penalty include Burundi, which abolished the death penalty for all crimes in 2009, and Gabon which did the same in 2010. On 5 July 2012, Benin became part of the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), which prohibits the use of the death penalty.\n\nThe newly created South Sudan is among the 111 UN member states that supported the resolution passed by the United Nations General Assembly that called for the removal of the death penalty, therefore affirming its opposition to the practice. South Sudan, however, has not yet abolished the death penalty and stated that it must first amend its Constitution, and until that happens it will continue to use the death penalty.\n\nAmong non-governmental organizations (NGOs), Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch are noted for their opposition to capital punishment. A number of such NGOs, as well as trade unions, local councils and bar associations formed a World Coalition Against the Death Penalty in 2002.\n\nThe world's major faiths have differing views depending on the religion, denomination, sect and/or the individual adherent. As an example, the majority of Christendom opposes the death penalty and the world's largest Christian denomination - Catholicism - opposes capital punishment in all cases, whereas both the Baha'i and Islamic faiths support capital punishment.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "404772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404772", "title": "Case citation", "text": "Case citation\n\nCase citation is a system used by legal professionals to identify past court case decisions, either in series of books called reporters or law reports, or in a neutral style that identifies a decision regardless of where it is reported. Case citations are formatted differently in different jurisdictions, but generally contain the same key information.\n\nA legal citation is a \"reference to a legal precedent or authority, such as a case, statute, or treatise, that either substantiates or contradicts a given position.\" Where cases are published on paper, the citation usually contains the following information:\n\nIn some report series, for example in England, Australia and some in Canada, volumes are not numbered independently of the year: thus the year and volume number (usually no greater than 4) are required to identify which book of the series has the case reported within its covers. In such citations, it is usual in these jurisdictions to apply square brackets \"\" to the year (which may not be the year that the case was decided: for example, a case decided in December 2001 may have been reported in 2002).\n\nThe Internet brought with it the opportunity for courts to publish their decisions on websites and most published court decisions now appear in that way. They can be found through many national and other websites, such as WorldLII, that are operated by members of the Free Access to Law Movement.\n\nThe resulting flood of unpaginated information has led to numbering of paragraphs and the adoption of a medium-neutral citation system. This usually contains the following information:\nRather than utilizing page numbers for pinpoint references, which would depend upon particular printers and browsers, pinpoint quotations refer to paragraph numbers.\n\nThe conjunction \"versus\" is abbreviated to \"v\" in Commonwealth countries and to \"v.\" in the United States.\n\nIn common law countries with an adversarial system of justice, the names of the opposing parties are separated in the case title by the abbreviation \"v\"usually written as \"v\" in Commonwealth countries and always as \"v.\" in the US. The abbreviation represents the Latin word \"versus\", which means \"against\". When case titles are read out loud, the \"v\" can be pronounced, depending on the context, as \"and\", \"against\", \"versus\", or \"vee\".\n\nCommonwealth countries follow British legal style:\n\n\nIn the United States, there is no consensus on the pronunciation of the abbreviation \"v.\" This has led to much confusion about the pronunciation and spelling of court cases:\n\n\nDuring oral arguments in \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" (1992), the participants demonstrated the lack of consensus by using different pronunciations of \"v.\" Solicitor General Ken Starr even managed to use all three of the most common American pronunciations interchangeably:\n\nLegal citation in Australia generally mirrors the methods of citation used in England. A widely used guide to Australian legal citation is the \"Australian Guide to Legal Citation\" (commonly known as AGLC), published jointly by the \"Melbourne University Law Review\" and the \"Melbourne Journal of International Law\".\n\nThe standard case citation format in Australia is:\n\nAs in Canada, there has been divergence among citation styles. There exist commercial citation guides published by Butterworths and other legal publishing companies, academic citation styles and court citation styles. Each court in Australia may cite the same case slightly differently. There is presently a movement in convergence to the comprehensive academic citation style of the Australian Guide to Legal Citation published jointly by the \"Melbourne University Law Review\" and the \"Melbourne Journal of International Law\".\n\nAustralian courts and tribunals have now adopted a neutral citation standard for case law. The format provides a naming system that does not depend on the publication of the case in a law report. Most cases are now published on AustLII using neutral citations.\n\nThe standard format looks like this:\n\nSo the above-mentioned \"Mabo\" case would then be cited like this: \"Mabo v Queensland (No 2)\" [1992] HCA 23.\n\nThere is a unique court identifier code for most courts. The court and tribunal identifiers include:\n\nThere are a number of citation standards in Canada. Many legal publishing companies and schools have their own standard for citation. Since the late 1990s, however, much of the legal community has converged to a single standard—formulated in \"The Canadian Guide to Uniform Legal Citation\", commonly known as the \"McGill Guide\" after the \"McGill Law Journal\", which first published it. The following format reflects this standard:\n\nBroken into its component parts, the format is:\nThe \"Style of Cause\" is italicized as in all other countries and the party names are separated by \"v\" (English) or \"c\" (French). Prior to 1984 the appellant party would always be named first. However, since then case names do not switch order when the case is appealed.\n\nUndisclosed parties to a case are represented by initials (e.g., \"R v RDS\"). Criminal cases are prosecuted by the Crown, which is always represented by \"R\" for \"Regina\" (queen) or \"Rex\" (king). Constitutional references are always entitled \"Reference re\" followed by the subject title.\n\nIf the year of decision is the same as the year of the report, and the date is a part of the reporter's citation, then the date need not be listed after the \"style of cause\". If the date of the decision is different from the year of the report, then both should be shown.\n\nWhere available, cases should be cited with their neutral citation immediately after the \"style of cause\" and preceding the print citation. For example,\n\nThis format was adopted as the standard in 2006, in the sixth edition of the McGill Guide. Prior to this format, the opposite order of parallel citation was used.\n\nThe seventh edition of the McGill Guide, published 2010-08-20, removes most full stop/period (\".\") characters from the citations, e.g., a citation to the Supreme Court Reports that previously would have been [2005] 1 S.C.R. 791, is now [2005] 1 SCR 791. Most full stops are also removed from styles of cause. The seventh edition also further highlights the significance of neutral citations (i.e., tribunal-assigned citations that are publisher-independent)\n\nIn 1999 the Canadian Judicial Council adopted a neutral citation standard for case law. The format provides a naming system that does not depend on the publication of the case in a law report.\n\nThe standard format look like this:\nThere is a unique court identifier code for most courts. A list of the court identifiers include:\n\nThere is no official standard for case citations in Denmark, and the citation format also varies depending on how the reporter in question indexes their judgments (i.e. by page number or giving each case an identifier). However, citations usually include the same components:\nAs an example, a case from the Supreme Court (Højesteret) published in the Ugeskrift for Retsvæsen, the main reporter of decisions, in the year 2001 on page 2327 could be cited in various different ways, as exemplified by this non-exhaustive list:\nThe above example is from a reporter that cites cases by page number. Another reporter, Tidsskrift for Skatter og Afgifter, gives each case a number instead. The above case was given the identifier 719 and would be cited using 719 instead of a page number (e.g. TfS 2001/179 H or TfS 2001/179 HD, among others).\n\nCases that have not been published in a reporter should be cited using the name of the court, the date of the decision and the court's own case number. For example:\nAs with reporter citations, the composition and wording of the citation can vary, the key is to include enough information for the reader to be able to acquire it.\n\nNon-exhaustive list of Danish case reporters\n\nIn Germany there are two types of citation: the full citation of a case and its shortened form. In e.g. scientific articles, the full citation of a particular case is only used at its first occurrence; after that, its shortened form is used. In most law journals, the articles themselves only use the shortened form; the full citations for all articles sometimes are summarized at the beginning of that journals edition.\n\nA third type (yet not too widely spread) is the citation by using the European Case Law Identifier, a ″neutral″ citation system introduced by the Council of the European Union in 2011, which Germany is participating in.\n\nThe most important cases of the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany are published by the court in its official collection. This collection is abbreviated \"BVerfGE\", whereas \"BVerfG\" is short for \"Bundesverfassungsgericht\", the German court name, and \"E\" stands for \"Entscheidung\" (decision).\n\nStarting in 2004, the court also publishes the BVerfGK collection, containing decisions made only by a \"Kammer\", a specific part of the court.\n\nThe so-called for example could be cited\nin full and\nin short.\n\nFor the meaning of the different case numbers of the BVerfG see .\n\nIf decisions are not yet published by the court, or will not be published at all, law journals can be cited, e.g.,\nWhere \"NJW\" stands for the law journal , 2009 is the year, 1234 the page of the beginning and 1235 the cited page(s) – \"f.\" stands for \"seq.\". In general, citations of the official collections are preferred.\n\nThe Federal Court of Justice of Germany (Bundesgerichtshof, short BGH) publishes the official collections \"\" for decisions in penal law and \"\" for those in private law.\n\nThe e.g. would be cited\nin full and\nin short (in this example, not a specific page but the case as such is cited; \"ff.\" means \"sqq.\").\n\nThe official collection of the Federal Social Court of Germany (Bundessozialgericht, BSG) is abbreviated \"BSGE\".\n\nThe official collection of the Federal Finance Court of Germany (Bundesfinanzhof, BFH) is \"BFHE\".\n\nThe official collection of the Federal Labor Court of Germany (Bundesarbeitsgericht, BAG) is \"BAGE\".\n\nThe official collection of the Federal Administrative Court of Germany (Bundesverwaltungsgericht, BVerwG) is \"BVerwGE\".\n\nFor other courts, generally the same rules apply, though most do not publish an official collection, so they must be cited from a law journal.\n\nAccording to the ECLI system the \"Volkszählungsurteil\" would be cited as \nand the \"Katzenkönigfall\" as \n\nIndia's vast federated judicial system admits to a large number of reporters, each with their own style of citation. There are over 200 law reports in India – subject-wise and state (province)-wise, authorized and unauthorized.\n\nThe official reporter for Supreme Court decisions is the Supreme Court Reports. These reports however lag behind other journals in the speed of reporting. While decisions themselves are uploaded by the Supreme Court itself on \"www.courtnic.nic.in\", the edited versions with headnotes in the official reporter take years to compile. However, some reporters have been authorised to publish the Court's decisions. The \"All India Reporter\" (AIR) is an old and respected reporter that, in addition to the Supreme Court, also reports decisions of the various State High Courts. Other popular reporters include \"Supreme Court Cases\", which has become the most cited report in the Supreme Court, the \"Supreme Court Almanac\", and \"Judgements Today\".\n\n\"Sebastian Hongray v. Union of India\":\n\nA citation of the \"Supreme Court Almanac\":\n\nA citation in \"Judgements Today\":\n\nThe \"Supreme Court Cases (SCC)\" published supplementary reports for a few years in the early 1990s. Those citations looked like this:\n\nThe SCC also have a separate series of subject-based reporting of the decisions of the Supreme Court:\n\nThe \"All India Reporter\" (AIR) is the most popular nationwide reporter for decisions of the High Courts. An AIR High Court citation looks like: \"Surjya Kumar Das v. Maya Dutta\" AIR 1982 Cal 222, where \"Cal\" refers to the Calcutta High Court in Kolkata. This is a uniform style for AIR High Court reports. Only the shortened indicator of the forum changes for different High Courts. \"The Calcutta Weekly Notes\" is the oldest continuously published law journal in India having uninterrupted publication since 1896 reporting reportable decisions of the High Court at Calcutta. Reports are cited in the style 105 CWN 345 where 105 refers to the volume number calculated at one volume per year from the initial volume, which had been published in 1896. \n\nNational Judicial Reference System (NJRS) is a project started by the Income-tax Department, Government of India. It has been envisaged as a tool to achieve efficiency in the tax litigation process of Income Tax Department (ITD). Within this project the Judicial Research & Reference System (JRRS) – JRRS is a repository of judicial orders as a single, indexed, searchable, cross-linked, database of Judgments / orders of ITAT, Authority of Advance Ruling (AAR), HC and SC.\n\nThe Citation nomenclature followed within NJRS :\n\nThis Citation further allows to add the Authority where the judgment / order was pronounced.\n\nThe standard case citation format in New Zealand is:\n\nSeveral leading law reviews in New Zealand have also adopted the \"Australian Guide to Legal Citation\" (AGLC) such as the \"Canterbury Law Review\". The AGLC style is also rather similar to citation style in New Zealand.\n\nAdditionally, a number of other report series exist for specialist areas such as Family, Employment and Tax Law. \n\nNew Zealand courts and tribunals have begun to adopt a neutral citation standard for case law. The format provides a naming system that does not depend on the publication of the case in a law report.\n\nThe standard format looks like this:\nThere is a unique court identifier for each court or tribunal. These identifiers are:\nWhere both a neutral citation and a reporter citation exist, the neutral citation should come first e.g. \"R v AM\" [2010] NZCA 114, [2010] 2 NZLR 750\n\nThe Norwegian standard case citation format for published court decisions is:\n\nwhere:\n\n\nDespite the long-standing civil law tradition in the Philippines, reliance on judicial precedents has become indispensable since the period of American rule. Supreme Court decisions are expressly recognized as part of the internal law, and are thus frequently cited in court decisions and legal pleadings. Though there is only one Supreme Court in the Philippines, the citation of its decisions varies, depending on which report of a case is relied on by the person citing that case. \n\nThe \"Philippine Reports\" is the official reporter of decisions of the Supreme Court of the Philippines. The standard format for citation of the \"Philippine Reports\" is:\n\nwhere:\n\n\nAs of present, Philippine cases are contained in quarterly issues. The Supreme Court Reports Annotated or SCRA are cited as such:\n\nJuarez v. Court of Appeals 214 SCRA 475\n\nwhere 214 is the volume of the book, and 475 is the page number. There are already over 700 SCRAs in circulation.\n\nIn the last few decades, the \"Philippine Reports\" has suffered from production problems, resulting in long delays in publication, as well as significant gaps within its published series. As a result, the privately published \"Supreme Court Reports Annotated\" (published by Central Professional Books, Inc.) has become more widely used than the \"Philippine Reports\", even by the courts. The proper format for citation of the \"Supreme Court Reports Annotated\" is:\n\nwhere:\n\n\nOwing to the delays in the regular publication of the Philippine Reports, reliance on the SCRA has been tolerated, although if a case may be found at the Philippine Reports, it is preferred that the official reporter be cited in lieu of the SCRA.\n\nWhen citing cases not yet reported in the Philippine Reports or the SCRA, the above citation without reference to the SCRA is preferred (i.e., \"Fortich v. Corona\", G.R. No. 131457, 24 April 1988)\n\nAs there are no official or unofficial reporters that regularly publish decisions of the Court of Appeals and other lower courts, citation of their decisions hews to the same format as cases not reported either in the Philippine Reports or the SCRA. Thus: \"(case name)\", \"(docket number)\", \"(Exact date of promulgation of decision)\".\n\nCitations vary by court and by language. Cases of the Swiss Federal Supreme Court are cited as follows:\n\nOfficially published cases are cited as \"BGE 133 II 292 [E. 3.2 S. 296]\" (German: \"Bundesgerichtsentscheide\") or \"ATF 133 II 292 [consid. 3.2 p. 296]\" (French: \"arrêts du tribunal fédéral\"). In this example, 133 is the annual issue of the court reports, II the part indicating the division of the Court, and 292 the page on which the decision begins. Optionally, \"E. 3.2\" and \"S. 296\" are the section and page specifically cited.\n\nSupreme Court decisions not selected for official publication are cited as \"Urteil [des Bundesgerichts] 5C.260/2006 vom 30. März 2007\" or \"arrêt [du Tribunal fédéral] 5C.260/2006 du 30 mars 2007\" respectively. In this example, 5C is the division of the Court, 260 the case number and 2006 the year in which the case was opened.\n\nThe citation style for cases of the inferior federal courts of Switzerland is similar.\n\nSince 2001, judgments in the House of Lords, Privy Council, Court of Appeal and Administrative Court have been issued with neutral citations. This system was extended to other parts of the High Court in 2002. Judgments with neutral citations are freely available on the British and Irish Legal Information Institute website (www.bailii.org).\nNeutral citations identify judgments independently of any series of reports, and cite only parties, year of judgment, court and case number. For example, \"Rottman v MPC\" [2002] UKHL 20 identifies the 20th judgment in 2002 in the UK House of Lords. UKHL stands for UK House of Lords. EWHC and EWCA identify the England and Wales High Court and Court of Appeal respectively. These abbreviations are generally followed by an abbreviation indicating the court or division (e.g. Admin, Ch, Crim, Pat).\n\nIf a neutral citation is available for a judgment, it should immediately follow the party names. If the judgment has also been reported in a law reports series, follow the neutral citation with the \"best report\", which is usually from the official Law Reports series (Appeals Cases – AC, Chancery – Ch, Family – Fam, Queen's Bench – QB etc.).\n\nThe case of \"Rottman v MPC\" was reported in the Appeals Cases, so the citation should be:\n\nThis means that a report of the case and the judgment can be found in the 2002 volumes, vol 2, of the Law Reports series called Appeals Cases, beginning at page 692.\n\nTo cite a particular paragraph from the judgment, add the paragraph number in square brackets at the end of the citation:\n\nIf a case is not reported in the Law Reports, the next best report is the Weekly Law Reports (e.g. [2002] 2 WLR 1315), and then the All England Reports (e.g., [2002] 2 All ER 865). In some situations, it might be preferable to cite a specialist series, e.g., \"Rottman v MPC\" was also cited in the Human Rights Law Reports, at [2002] HRLR 32.\n\nFor cases before 2001, cite the best report. If referring to a particular page of the judgment, give that page number after the page number on which the report begins. The following citation refers to page 573 of the \"Donoghue v Stevenson\" judgment:\n\n\nThe standard case citation format in England and Wales is:\n\nIn England and Wales as with certain Commonwealth countries, the abbreviation \"R\" for \"rex\" (king) or \"regina\" (queen), is used for cases in which the state is a party (typically criminal cases or judicial review cases).\n\nSquare brackets \"[ ]\" are used when the year is essential to locating the report (e.g., the official law reports either—as with \"Donoghue v Stevenson\", above—do not have volume numbers or, if there are multiple volumes in a single year, they are numbered 1, 2, etc.). Round brackets \"( )\" are used when the year is not essential but is useful for information purposes, e.g., in reports that have a cumulative volume number such as \"R v Dudley and Stephens\", above.\n\nThe term \"reporter\", meaning a law report or a series of them, is not widely used in England and Wales. Before 1865, English courts used a large number of privately printed reports, and cases were cited based on which report they appeared in. (This system was also used in the United States and other common law jurisdictions during that period.)\n\nTwo main unofficial law reports report all areas of law: the \"Weekly Law Reports\" (WLR) and the \"All England Reports\" (All ER). In addition, a number of unofficial specialist law reports focus on particular areas, e.g., \"Entertainment and Media Law Reports\" (EMLR) or the \"Criminal Appeal Reports\" (Cr App R).\n\nFor the citation of \"The Law Reports\" of the Incorporated Council of Law Reporting, see Law Reports. These have been published since 1865. They have always been split into a number of different series, the current series being the Appeal Cases (AC), Chancery (Ch), Family (Fam), and Queen's Bench (QB) (or King's Bench—KB—depending on the monarch of the time). These four series are cited in preference to all others in court.\n\nThe table below is an incomplete list of law reports other than \"The Law Reports\", nominate reports and reprints.\n\nThe table below is a list of series that are reprints of earlier reports.\n\nFor nominate reports, see Nominate reports.\n\nThe standard case citation formats in Scotland are:\nThe Supreme Court has issued a practice note on the use of neutral citation. The \"Scots Law Times\" is cited as \"SLT\".\n\nThe standard case citation format in the United States is:\nwhere:\n\nCase citations are used to find a particular case, both when looking up a case in a printed reporter and when accessing it via the Internet or services such as LexisNexis or Westlaw.\n\nThis format also allows different cases with the same parties to be easily differentiated. For example, looking for the U.S. Supreme Court case of \"Miller v. California\" would yield four cases, some involving different people named Miller, and each involving different issues.\n\nCases from the Supreme Court of the United States are officially printed in the \"United States Reports\". A citation to the \"United States Reports\" looks like this:\n\n\nMany court decisions are published in more than one reporter. A citation to two or more reporters for a given court decision is called a \"parallel citation\". For U.S. Supreme Court decisions, there are several unofficial reporters, including the \"Supreme Court Reporter\" (abbreviated S. Ct.) and \"United States Supreme Court Reports, Lawyers' Edition\" (commonly known simply as \"Lawyers' Edition\") (abbreviated L. Ed.), which are printed by private companies and provide further annotations to the opinions of the Court. Although a citation to the latter two is not required, some attorneys and legal writers prefer to cite all three case reporters at once:\n\n\nThe \"2d\" after the L. Ed. signifies the second series of the \"Lawyers' Edition\". United States case reporters are sequentially numbered, but the volume number is never higher than 999. When the 1,000th volume is reached (the threshold in earlier years was lower), the volume number is reset to 1 and a \"2d\" is appended after the reporter's abbreviation. Some case reporters are in their third series, and a few are approaching their fourth.\n\nSome very old Supreme Court cases have odd-looking citations, such as \"Marbury v. Madison\", 5 U.S. (1 Cranch) 137 (1803). The \"(1 Cranch)\" refers to the fact that, before there was a reporter series known as the \"United States Reports\" compiled by the Supreme Court's Reporter of Decisions, cases were gathered, bound together, and sold privately by the Court's Reporter of Decisions. In this example, \"Marbury\" was first reported in an edition by William Cranch, who was responsible for publishing Supreme Court reports from 1801 to 1815. Such reports, named for the individual who gathered them and hence called \"nominative reports\", existed from 1790 to 1874. Beginning in 1874, the U.S. government created the \"United States Reports\", and at the same time simultaneously numbered the volumes previously published privately as part of a single series and began numbering sequentially from that point. In this way, \"5 U.S. (1 Cranch)\" means that it is the 5th overall volume of the \"United States Reports\" series, but the first that was originally published by William Cranch; four volumes of opinions prior to that were (for example) published by Alexander Dallas (for example, \"4 U.S. (4 Dall.)\"), and after Cranch's 9 volumes, 12 more were published by Henry Wheaton (e.g., \"15 U.S. (2 Wheat.)\"). See the Supreme Court of the United States Reporter of Decisions for other edition names. The name of the reporter of decisions has not been used in citations since the U.S. government began printing the \"United States Reports\".\n\nWhen a case has been decided, but not yet published in the case reporter, the citation may note the volume but leave blank the page of the case reporter until it is determined. For example, \"Golan v. Holder\", .\n\nIn the caption of a Supreme Court case, the first name listed is the name of the petitioning (appealing) party, followed by the party responding (respondent) to the appeal. In most cases, the appealing party was the losing party in the prior court. This is no longer the practice used in cases in the federal courts of appeal, in which the original alignment of parties from the lower court is preserved.\n\nUnited States court of appeals cases are published in the \"Federal Reporter\" (F., F.2d, or F.3d). United States district court cases and cases from some specialized courts are published in the \"Federal Supplement\" (F. Supp., F. Supp. 2d, or F. Supp. 3d). Both series are published by Thomson West; they are technically unofficial reporters, but have become widely accepted as the \"de facto\" \"official\" reporters of the lower federal courts because of the absence of a true official reporter. (Of the federal appeals and district courts, only one, the D.C. Circuit, has an official reporter, \"United States Court of Appeals Reports\", and even that one is rarely used today.)\n\nWhen lower federal court opinions are cited, the citation includes the name of the court. This is placed in the parentheses immediately before the year. Some examples:\n\n\nU.S. circuit and district court cases from 1789 to 1880 were reported in Federal Cases, abbreviated F. Cas. An example of the citation form is: \"Wheaton v. Peters\", 29 F. Cas. 862 (C.C.E.D. Pa. 1832) (No. 17,486).\n\nState court decisions are published in several places. Many states have their own official state reporters, which publish decisions of one or more of that state's courts. Reporters that publish decisions of a state's highest court are abbreviated the same as the state's name (note: this is the traditional abbreviation, not the postal abbreviation), regardless of what the actual title of the reporter is. Thus, the official reporter of decisions of the California Supreme Court (titled \"California Reports\") is abbreviated \"Cal.\" (or, for subsequent series, \"Cal. 2d,\" \"Cal. 3d\", or \"Cal. 4th\").\n\nIn addition to the official reporters, Thomson West publishes several series of \"regional reporters\" that cover several states each. These are the \"North Eastern Reporter\", \"Atlantic Reporter\", \"South Eastern Reporter\", \"Southern Reporter\", \"South Western Reporter\", \"North Western Reporter\", and \"Pacific Reporter\". California, Illinois, and New York also each have their own line of Thomson West reporters, because of the large volume of cases generated in those states (titled, respectively, \"West's California Reporter\", \"Illinois Decisions\", and \"West's New York Supplement\"). Some smaller states (like South Dakota) have stopped publishing their own official reporters, and instead have certified the appropriate West regional reporter as their \"official\" reporter.\n\nHere are some examples of how to cite West reporters:\n\n\nAbbreviations for lower courts vary by state, as each state has its own system of trial courts and intermediate appellate courts. When a case appears in both an official reporter and a regional reporter, either citation can be used. Generally, citing to the regional reporter is preferred, since out-of-state attorneys are more likely to have access to these. Many lawyers prefer to include both citations. Some state courts require that parallel citations (in this case, citing to both the official reporter and an unofficial regional reporter) be used when citing cases from any court in that state's system.\n\nLike the United States Supreme Court, some very old state case citations include an abbreviation of the name of either the private publisher or the reporter of decisions, a state-appointed officer who originally collected and published the cases. For example, in \"Hall v. Bell\", 47 Mass. (6 Met.) 431 (1843), the citation is to volume 47 of \"Massachusetts Reports\", which, like \"United States Reports\", was started in the latter half of the 19th century and incorporated into the series a number of prior editions originally published privately, and began numbering from that point; \"6 Met.\" refers to the 6th volume that had originally been published privately by Theron Metcalf. An example of a case cited to a reporter that has not been subsequently incorporated into an officially published series is \"Pierson v. Post\", 3 Cai. 175 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 1804), reported in volume 3 of \"Caines' Reports\", page 175, named for George Caines, who had been appointed to report New York cases; the case was before the New York Supreme Court of Judicature (now defunct). Most states gave up this practice in the mid-to-late 19th century, but Delaware persisted until 1920.\n\nSome states, notably California and New York, have their own citation systems that differ significantly from the various federal and national standards. In California, the year is placed \"between\" the names of the parties and the reference to the case reporter; in New York, the year is wrapped by in brackets instead of parentheses. Both New York and California styles wrap an entire citation in parentheses when used as a stand-alone sentence, although New York places the terminating period outside the parentheses, whereas California places it inside. New York wraps just the reporter and page references in parentheses when the citation is used as a clause. \n\nEither way, both state styles differ from the national/Bluebook style of simply dropping in the citation as a separate sentence without further adornment. Both systems use less punctuation and spacing in their reporter abbreviations.\n\nFor example, assuming that it is being placed as a stand-alone sentence, the \"Brown\" case above would be cited (using the official reporter) to a New York court as:\n\n\nAnd, again, as a stand-alone sentence, the famous \"Greenman\" product liability case would be cited to a California court as:\n\n\nA growing number of court decisions are not published in case reporters. For example, only 7% of the opinions of the California intermediate courts (the Courts of Appeal) are published each year. This is mainly because judges certify only significant decisions for publication, due to the massive number of frivolous appeals flowing through the courts and the importance of avoiding information overload.\n\nIt is also argued that this is in part because in many states, especially California, the legislature has failed to expand the judiciary to keep up with population growth (for various political and fiscal reasons). To deal with their crushing caseloads, many judges prefer to write shorter-than-normal opinions that dispose of minor issues in the case in a sentence or two. They avoid publishing such abbreviated opinions, however, so as not to risk creating bad precedents. \n\nAttorneys have several options in citing \"unpublished\" decisions:\n\nSome court systems—such as the California state court system and the federal Court of Appeals for the Second, Seventh, and Ninth Circuits—forbid attorneys to cite unpublished cases as precedent. Other systems allow citation of unpublished cases only under specific circumstances. For example, in Kentucky, unpublished cases from that state's courts can only be cited if the case was decided after January 1, 2003, and \"there is no published opinion that would adequately address the issue before the court\". From 2004 to 2006, federal judges debated whether the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure (FRAP) should be amended so that unpublished cases in all circuits could be cited as precedent. In 2006, the Supreme Court, over the objection of several hundred judges and lawyers, adopted a new Rule 32.1 of FRAP requiring that federal courts allow citation of unpublished cases. The rule took effect on January 1, 2007.\n\nWith the rise of the web, many courts placed new cases on websites. Some were published while others never lost their \"unpublished\" status. The major legal citation systems required cites to the officially published page numbers, in which publishers such as West Publishing claimed a copyright interest.\n\nA vendor-neutral citation movement led to provisions being made for citations to web-based cases and other legal materials. A few courts modified their rules to specifically take into account cases \"published\" on the web.\n\nAn example of a vendor-neutral citation:\n\nIn practice, most lawyers go one step farther, once they have developed the correct citation for a case using the rules discussed above. Most court opinions contain holdings on multiple issues, so lawyers need to cite to the page that contains the specific holding they wish to invoke in their own case. Such citations are known as pinpoint citations, \"pin cites\", or \"jump cites\".\n\nFor example, in \"Roe v. Wade\", the U.S. Supreme Court held that the word \"person\" as used in the Fourteenth Amendment does not include the unborn. That particular holding appears on page 158 of the volume in which the \"Roe\" decision was published. A full pin cite to \"Roe\" for that holding would be as follows:\n\n\nAnd a parallel cite to all three U.S. Supreme Court reporters, combined with pin cites for all three, would produce:\n\n\nBut in its opinions, the Court usually provides a direct pin cite only to the official reporter. The two unofficial reporters, when they reprint the Court's opinions, add on parallel cites to each other, but do not add pin cites. Therefore, a citation to \"Roe v. Wade\" in a later Supreme Court decision as viewed on Lexis or Westlaw would appear as follows:\n\n\nEven then, such citations are still quite lengthy, and may look quite mysterious and intimidating to laypersons when they read court opinions. Since the 1980s, there has been an ongoing debate among American judges as to whether they should relegate such lengthy citations to footnotes to improve the readability of their opinions, as strongly urged by Bryan A. Garner, one of the leading authors on legal writing and style. Most judges do relegate \"some\" citations to footnotes, but jurists such as Justice Stephen Breyer and Judge Richard Posner refuse to use footnotes in their opinions.\n\nThere are two types of citations: proprietary and public domain citations. There are many citation guides; the most commonly acknowledged is called \"\", compiled by the \"Columbia Law Review\", \"Harvard Law Review\", \"University of Pennsylvania Law Review\", and \"Yale Law Journal\". \"Public domain citations\" refer to the official reporters, rather than a publication service such as Westlaw, LexisNexis, particular legal journals, or specialization-specific reporters. States with their own unique style for court documents and case opinions also publish their own style guides, which include information on their citation rules.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8061805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8061805", "title": "College of the State Bar of Texas", "text": "College of the State Bar of Texas\n\nThe College of the State Bar of Texas is an honorary society of qualified lawyers who are interested in both high ethical standards and improved training for all Texas attorneys.\n\nThe College recognizes Texas lawyers who voluntarily attend at least double the minimum Continuing Legal Education (CLE) classes required by the State Bar of Texas. While the State Bar of Texas mandates that every licensed attorney complete at least fifteen hours of continuing legal education classes each year, the College requires its members to double that number by attending thirty hours per year.\n\nAs of 2006, it was the only organization in the United States formed for the specific purpose of promoting and recognizing attorneys who strive to maintain and enhance their professional skills and the quality of their practice through voluntary participation in CLE programs. Historically, only about eight percent of the licensed attorneys in Texas (4,100 out of 63,500 in 1999) meet the requirements for membership in the College of the State Bar of Texas. The motto of the College is: \"Professionalism Through Education.\"\n\nSince 1993, the College of the State Bar has each year presented a lawyer with the Jim Bowmer Professionalism Award, an annual honor established to recognize members who have significantly contributed to professionalism within the legal community, as well as a Franklin Jones Best CLE Article Award and a Steve Condos Most CLE Hours Award.\n\nJim D. Bowmer and Franklin Jones, Jr., both past presidents of the State Bar of Texas, credit each other with starting the College of the State Bar. Mr. Bowmer, who believed that lawyers in Texas should be given recognition for attending programs of continuing legal education, urged Mr. Jones to persuade the Board of Directors of the State Bar of Texas to adopt the idea for the College. At the request of the Board of the Directors of the State Bar of Texas, the College was established by the Texas Supreme Court on December 14, 1981.\n\nIn June 2001, the Board of the State Bar voted to change the status of the College from a standing committee of the Bar to a \"bar-related entity.\" On October 25, 2001, the Texas Supreme Court amended its 1981 order establishing the College of the State Bar (Misc. Docket No. 01-9180) and directed it to pursue incorporation under the Texas Non-Profit Corporation Act. As a qualifying non-profit corporation, the College applied for and received Section 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status under the United States Internal Revenue Code.\n\n"}
{"id": "23321937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23321937", "title": "Czech Pirate Party", "text": "Czech Pirate Party\n\nThe Czech Pirate Party () or Pirates () is a political party in the Czech Republic, founded in 2009. It is the third largest party in the Chamber of Deputies following the 2017 legislative election, with 22 out of 200 seats, entering the Chamber of Deputies for the first time since its formation. The parliamentary party sits in opposition to the ruling cabinet, and party leader Ivan Bartoš serves as the chairman of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The party is represented by three Members of the Senate of the Czech Republic, it formed a governing coalition in the Prague City Assembly and Zdeněk Hřib is the current Mayor of Prague.\n\nThe party's program focuses on political transparency and accountability, anti-corruption, e-government, public participation in democratic decision making, supporting small business, funding of local development, tax avoidance prevention and safeguarding of civil liberties. The party has also introduced proposals for policies and reforms for taxation, education, science, healthcare, environment, culture, industry and trade, agriculture, justice system and foreign relations.\n\nThe Czech Pirate Party was founded as a student-driven grassroots movement campaigning for political transparency, civil rights and participatory democracy. The party was originally inspired by the Swedish Pirate Party, which like most other Pirate parties was a single-issue party focusing on Internet freedom. However, the Czech Pirate Party has developed a broad political platform grounded in social liberalism and left-libertarianism.\n\nOn 27 May 2009 an application was submitted to the Ministry of the Interior for registration of the party. On 17 June, the party was registered under the code MV-39553-7/VS-2009. Within the first two days of the launch of their website in April, 1,800 people had signed an online petition to register the party. Czech law requires a paper petition with 1,000 signatures for registration. In the student elections, the Pirate Party received 7.7% of the vote.\n\nOn 28 June 2009 the party held a constitutive forum in Průhonice, near Prague, where the board was elected and main elements of the program were declared. Kamil Horký was elected as chairman. At the end of October 2009 in Albrechtice nad Orlicí, the General Assembly (GA) met for the first time, to complete statutes and elect a new board, commission and committee. Ivan Bartoš became party chairman.\n\nThe party participated in the general election in May 2010, and received 0.8% of the vote.\n\nIn December 2010, the party launched its own national whistle-blowing site similar to WikiLeaks, called PirateLeaks. The site was intended as a primary source for journalists, dedicated to evidence of corruption in the Czech government and public administration documents which should be publicly available according to law 106/1999 Sb. (Free Access to Information Act) but which the authorities refused to disclose without a formal request defined by the law.\n\nStanding in a local senate election on 18–19 March 2011 in Kladno, they obtained 0.75% of the vote. In the Czech Senate election, 2012, the Czech Pirate Party nominated three candidates; one of them was a co-nomination with two other parties. This candidate, the whistleblower Libor Michálek, was elected as Senator in the second round of voting, with the Czech Pirate Party becoming a parliamentary party for the first time.\n\nIn local elections in 2014 the party entered many local assemblies, including a clear majority in Mariánské Lázně, which resulted in Vojtěch Franta being elected as the party's first mayor. In the 2016 Senate election, the Pirates won two additional seats in the Senate with Ladislav Kos and Renata Chmelová, who were nominated by multi-party coalitions with the Pirates' support.\n\nFollowing the 2017 legislative election, the party became the third largest party in the Chamber of Deputies with 22 out of 200 seats and sits in opposition to the ruling cabinet. Economist and auditor Lukáš Wagenknecht was elected Senator in the 2018 election, when Michálek's term ended.\n\nThe Pirates ranked second in the 2018 Prague municipal election with 13 out of 65 seats and formed a governing coalition with the third and fourth-ranked parties that holds 39 out of 65 seats in the Prague City Assembly. The leading Pirate candidate with 75,082 votes, Zdeněk Hřib, was elected as Mayor of Prague.\n\nIn a 2016 analysis of voters' perception of political parties, the Czech Pirate Party was identified as centrist (having both right wing and left wing voters) and \"liberal\" (as opposed to \"conservative\").\n\nThe party's program focuses on control of political power and government spending through transparency, accountability and anti-corruption measures, safeguarding of civil liberties including digital rights, introducing elements of participatory democracy by enabling law proposals by the public through petitions and simplification of state bureaucracy through e-government.\n\nThe Czech Pirate Party is generally pro-European and pro-Eurozone, while advocating major reforms in both institutions to address the perceived democratic deficit in the European Union. The Pirates propose that the Czech Republic should participate in the mainstream of the European integration and should participate in EU decision making, but should adopt the Euro only if specific conditions are fulfilled. The party also supports Czech membership of NATO, but it is critical of aggression by NATO members and argues that any engagement of NATO forces outside of the territories of its member states should take place only if supported by a United Nations resolution.\n\nThe Pirates oppose the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), and support LGBT rights in the Czech Republic.\n\nThe party supports a bank tax, the strengthening of the Czech National Bank's authority; measures to stop capital outflow, prevent financial speculation that lead to financial crises and financial crime; and it is against any taxpayer-funded bank bailouts. The party also proposes the establishment of a lobby register and a lobbying law.\n\nThe party's four main campaign policies in the run-up to the 2017 elections were:\nFurthermore, the Pirates announced policies on transport and logistics, finance, informatics, culture, international relations, local development, defence, labour and social issues, industry and trade, justice, interior policy and transparent governance, education and science, healthcare, agriculture and the environment.\n\nThe party is a member of Pirate Parties International and European Pirates (PPEU). Mikuláš Peksa is a board member of PPEU, and Vojtěch Pikal was previously a co-chairman of PPI in 2013 and 2014. In April 2012, the party organised a conference of the Pirate Parties International (PPI) in Prague. More than 200 representatives of Pirate parties from 27 countries attended, including the founder of the Pirate movement, Rick Falkvinge; writer Cory Doctorow; and Swedish MEP Amelia Andersdotter.\n\nThe party is affiliated with, and signed up to the manifesto of, the pan-European political movement Democracy in Europe Movement 2025 (DieM25).\n\nThe party participated in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies 2010, gaining 42.323 votes (0,80%) and finishing in 11th place.\n"}
{"id": "42262649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42262649", "title": "Donselaar v Donselaar", "text": "Donselaar v Donselaar\n\nDonselaar v Donselaar [1982] 1 NZLR 97 is an often cited case in New Zealand regarding the legal issue of exemplary damages which held that although the ACC law prohibits damages for compensation, it does not exclude liability for punitive damages (exemplary damages).\n\nThe Donselaar family had a long running family dispute, culminating in John Donselaar trespassing on his brother Andrew's property. Not happy with his brother's trespass, Andrew hit his brother over the head with a hammer.\n\nAs a result, John sued Andrew for damages for this assault. As section 5 of the Accident Compensation Act [1972] prohibits suing for damages for physical injury, John sued for exemplary damages for the hammer attack.\n\nThe court ruled that the Accident Compensation Act [1972] did not prohibit damages for exemplary damages. However the court rules that it was the conduct of the defendant was the deciding factor on whether special punishment of exemplary damages should be awarded, and not the nature of the plaintiff's injury. Which was unfortunate for the plaintiff here, as the court referred to him here as the \"principal irritant\", as amongst other things, he was trespassing at the time of the assault, and as a result, the court declined to make an award for exemplary damages to the plaintiff.\n"}
{"id": "57042327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57042327", "title": "EU illegal State aid case against Apple in Ireland", "text": "EU illegal State aid case against Apple in Ireland\n\nOn 29 August 2016, after a two-year EU investigation, Margrethe Vestager of the European Commission announced: \"Ireland granted illegal tax benefits to Apple\". The Commission ordered Apple to pay €13 billion, plus interest, in unpaid Irish taxes from 2004–14 to the Irish State. It was the largest corporate tax fine in history. On the 7 September 2016, the Irish State secured a majority in Dail Eireann to reject payment of the back-taxes, which including penalties, could reach €20 billion, or 10% of 2014 Irish GDP. In November 2016, the Irish State formally appealed the ruling, claiming there was no departure from Irish taxation law, and that the Commission's action was \"an intrusion into Irish sovereignty\", as national tax policy is excluded from EU treaties. In November 2016, Apple CEO Tim Cook, announced Apple would appeal, and in September 2018, Apple lodged €13 billion to an escrow account, pending appeal.\n\nThe issue was Apple's variation of the Double Irish tax system, which, from 2004–2014, Apple used to shield circa €110.8 billion of non–U.S. profits from tax. Apple did not use the standard \"two separate Irish companies\", as Google and other Irish-based U.S. multinationals employ with their Double Irish tax systems, but instead received two rulings from the Irish Revenue (in 1991, and again updated in 2007), that it could use a single Irish company, split into \"two branches\". These were private rulings to Apple, not given to other Irish-based U.S. multinationals, and thus charged as illegal Irish State aid by the Commission.\n\nOn the 9 January 2015, Apple informed the Commission that it closed its hybrid–Double Irish, base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") tool. In Q1 2015, Apple restructured into a new Irish BEPS tool called the Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets (\"CAIA\") tool, also called the \"Green Jersey\". Apple's Q1 2015 restructuring required a 12 July 2016 restatement of Irish 2015 GDP, which increased it by 26.3 per cent (later revised to 34.4 per cent); the restatement was called \"leprechaun economics\", and led to new EU inquiries in 2017, and confirmation in June 2018, that Ireland was the world's largest tax haven.\n\nIreland's rejection of the EU Commission's \"windfall\" in back-taxes surprised some. However, in , U.S.–controlled multinationals are 25 of Ireland's top 50 companies, pay over 80% of all Irish corporate taxes (circa. €8 billion per annum), directly employ 25 per cent of the Irish labour force (and indirectly pay half of all Irish salary taxes), and are 57 per cent of all non-farm OECD value-add in the Irish economy. The American–Ireland Chamber of Commerce estimated that the value of U.S. investment in Ireland was €334 billion, exceeding Irish GDP (€291 billion in 2016). In contrast, there are no non–U.S./non–U.K. foreign multinationals in Ireland's top 50 firms. The U.K. firms are either selling into Ireland, like Tesco, or date pre–2009, after which the U.K. reformed to a \"territorial\" tax system. Multinationals from \"territorial\" systems rarely use tax havens, and in 2016, the U.S. was one of the last \"worldwide\" tax systems in operation. The cost of U.S. multinationals abandoning Ireland as a U.S. corporate–tax haven, would greatly exceed the EU's €13 billion \"windfall\".\n\nOn the 23 December 1980, Apple opened production facilities in Holyhill, Cork. By 1990, the number of jobs had grown from 700 jobs to 1000 permanent jobs, as well as 500 sub-contractors. Interview excerpts, published by European Commission, found that this information was used in the way of background information by a tax adviser representing Apple during meetings with Apple in 1990. \n\nBy November 2016, Apple employed 6,000 people in Ireland, almost all of which were in the Apple Hollyhill Cork plant. The Cork plant is Apple's only self-operated manufacturing plant in the world (e.g. Apple always contracts to 3rd party manufacturers). Holyhill is considered a low-technology facility, building iMacs to order by hand, and in this regard is more akin to a global logistics hub for Apple (albeit located on the island of Ireland). No research is carried out in the facility. Unusually for a plant, over 700 of the 6,000 employees work from home (the largest remote percentage of any Irish technology company).\n\nApple’s unusual Cork plant should be seen in the context of the job thresholds Ireland places on U.S. multinationals availing of the main Irish BEPS tools, discussed here, which provide \"effective Irish tax rates\" of 0–3%, but require specific employment quotas; and give more \"substance\" to the BEPS tool.\n\nIn 2014, Apple's Irish structure consisted of two subsidiaries; Apple Operations Ireland (\"AOI\") an Irish-registered holding company which acts as an internal financing company. AOI claimed tax residence in Bermuda and thus, is not an Irish tax resident. The EU Commission State Aid fine does not pertain to AOI. \n\nApple Sales International (\"ASI\"), on the other hand, is the focus of the EU Commission's fine (and was the focus of 2013 Senate Investigation). ASI is an Irish-registered subsidiary of Apple Operations Europe (\"AOE\").. Both AOE and ASI are parties to an Irish advanced pricing agreement which took place in 1991. This agreement was updated in 2007. ASI is the vehicle through which Apple routed €110.8 billion in non–U.S. profits from 2004 to 2014, inclusive. \n\nASI's 2014 structure was an adaptation of the Double Irish scheme, an Irish IP–based BEPS tool used by many U.S. multinationals. Apple did not follow the traditional Double Irish structure of using \"two separate Irish companies\". Instead, Apple used \"two separate \"branches\" inside one single company\", namely ASI. It is this \"branch structure\" the EU Commission allege is illegal State aid, as it was not offered to other multinationals in Ireland, who had used the traditional \"two separate companies\" version of the Double Irish BEPS tool.\n\nUnder the Double Irish structure, one Irish subsidiary (IRL1) is an Irish registered company selling products to non–U.S. locations from Ireland. The other Irish subsidiary (IRL2) is \"registered\" in Ireland, but \"managed and controlled\" from a tax haven like Bermuda. The Irish tax code considers IRL2 a Bermuda company (used the \"managed and controlled\" test), but the U.S. tax code considers IRL2 an Irish company (uses the registration test). Neither taxes it. Apple's subsidiary, ASI, behaved like it was IRL2, it was \"managed and controlled\" via ASI Board meetings in Bermuda, so Irish Revenue did not tax it. But ASI also did all the functions of IRL1, making circa €110.8 billion of profits from Non–U.S. sales. The EU Commission contest IRL1's actions made ASI Irish, and the functions of IRL1 over-rode the Bermuda Board meetings in deciding the \"managed and controlled\" test. The Commission had not brought any cases against U.S. multinationals using the standard double \"two separate companies\" Irish BEPS tool.\n\nApple's unique ASI structure, is believed to be the reason why Apple never had an Apple retail store in the Republic of Ireland (it even has one in smaller Belfast).\n\nIn May 2013, Apple’s tax practices were examined by a U.S. bipartisan investigation of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigation. The investigation aimed to examine whether Apple used offshore structures, in conjunction with arrangements, to shift profits from the U.S. to Ireland. Senators Carl Levin and John McCain drew light on what they referred to as a special tax arrangement between Apple and Ireland which allowed Apple to pay a corporate tax rate of less than 2%. \n\nIn June 2014, an investigation was opened by the European Commissioner for Competition on behalf of the EU Commission (SA 38373). The Ireland case was opened in conjunction with two other similar cases; involving Starbucks (Netherlands) and Fiat (Luxembourg). The Commissioner noted concerns that discretion in transfer pricing rules had been used to give Apple selective advantage. They believed that this violated Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). Article 107(1) states that aid granted by member states cannot threaten to distort competition. They examined Irish tax rulings from 1991 and 2007 by the Irish Office of the Revenue Commissioners. The Commission refers to taxable profit allocated to the Irish branches of AOE and ASI. The Commission claimed the pricing arrangement between Apple and Ireland was not supported by an economic assessment and was in part supported by employment considerations.\n\nOn the 30 August 2016, the Commission released a 4–page press release describing their decision and rationale. The EU Commission's full 130–page report on their State aid findings, including partially redacted information on Apple's Irish business (e.g. profits, employees, Board minutes etc.), was released on the 30 August 2016.\n\nAccording to the Commission, the tax arrangement between Ireland and Apple qualifies as state aid as it meets the European Union's four criteria:\n\n\nThe 30 August 2016 press briefing summarised the following findings from the main report:\n\nThe 30 August 2016 press briefing made the following statements regarding the financial implications:\n\nThe Commission fine of €13 billion was still an estimate, subject to final ASI accounts, and covers the period 2004 to 2014 inclusive, as the Commission is permitted to order a full recovery within a 10–year period from the start of any investigation. The January 2018 updated estimate of the fine had risen to €13.85 billion). The Commission fine is simply the estimated profits of, mainly, ASI applied, at the prevailing Irish corporate tax rate of 12.5% (see Table 1 above; and full EU Commission report). In addition, Apple will also owe interest penalties at the Irish Revenue penalty rate (was 8% in 2016), which would total circa €6 billion, giving a total fine of circa €20 billion. \n\nA fallback position of the EU Commission's State aid case is that if ASI is not an Irish company, then it was a \"stateless\" company (given it was \"legally\" registered in Ireland), and Apple has been remitting royalty payments from EU–28 countries to a company in a jurisdiction with no EU tax treaty. Apple would, therefore, owe back-taxes to each individual EU country, from which these royalties were paid (and not to Ireland). As all other EU countries have corporation tax rates materially in excess of Ireland's 12.5% corporation tax rate, the total Apple effective taxes owned, in this scenario, would be materially in excess of €13 billion. Margrethe Vestager appealed to individual EU taxing authorities to assess this aspect of Apple's State aid case for themselves, on a case-by-case basis.\n\nIn November 2016, in a letter to the Apple community in Europe, Tim Cook said the company would appeal. The Irish government also formally notified the EU Commission it would appeal in November 2016, and reject any claim to the €13 billion \"windfall\". In the immediate aftermath of the Commission's 29 August 2016 ruling, Ireland’s finance minister Michael Noonan stated that Ireland would be appealing the decision, subject to cabinet approval. On 2 September 2016, the Irish cabinet voted to approve the appeal. The minority Fine Gael–led government also had to secure a general Dail Eireann vote on the matter, which it did on the 7 September 2016, by a majority of 93 to 36, securing the support of the other main Irish political party, Fianna Fáil. \n\nThe appeal will firstly be heard in the EU’s General Court, with any further appeal being taken to the EU’s highest court; the European Court of Justice.\n\nIn August 2018, it was reported that the appeal would begin before the end of 2018, but could take over 5 years, and that Apple had begun to lodge the €13 billion into an escrow account during Q2 2018. On 18 September 2018, it was reported that Apple had lodged the €13 billion, plus another €1.3 billion, into the Irish State's escrow account. In October 2018, the Commission announced that it would drop its legal action against Ireland for late payment of the fine (deadline was 3 January 2017).\n\nThe EU Commission's findings cover the period from 2004 to end 2014, and their report notes that Apple had informed them at the start of 2015 that they had closed down their controversial hybrid–Double Irish BEPS tool, ASI, which enabled the Commission to complete their State aid report, and finalise the fine of €13 billion. \n\nIn January 2018, economist Seamus Coffey, Chairman of the State's Irish Fiscal Advisory Council, and author of the State's 2017 \"Review of Ireland's Corporation Tax Code\", showed Apple restructured ASI into another Irish IP–based BEPS tool, the Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets (\"CAIA\"), in Q1 2015. \n\nIt is specifically prohibited under Ireland's own corporation tax code (Section 291A(c) of the Irish Taxes and Consolation Act 1997) to use the CAIA BEPS scheme for reasons that are not \"commercial bona fide reasons\" and in particular for schemes where the main purpose is \"... the avoidance of, or reduction in, liability to tax\". Given that the CAIA scheme is a deliberate IP–based BEPS tool, it is Ireland tripping over itself trying to maintain OECD-compliance. \n\nThe November 2017 Paradise Papers leaks revealed that Apple and its lawyers, Applebys, were looking for a replacement for the ASI structure in 2014. They considered a number of tax havens (especially Jersey). Some of the disclosed documents leave little doubt as to the key drivers of Apple's decision making.\n\nIf the Irish Revenue waived Section 291A(c) for Apple's 2015 restructuring, it could result in a further EU Commission State Aid investigation.\n\nIn January 2018, in a series of articles in The Sunday Business Post, Mr Coffey estimated that since the 2015 restructuring, Apple has avoided Irish corporate taxes totalling circa at €2.5–3bn per annum (at the 12.5% rate). Mr Coffey calculated the potential second EU Apple State aid fine for the 2015–2018 (inclusive) period, would therefore reach circa €10bn, excluding any interest penalties.\n\nThe Irish financial media further noted that the then Finance Minister Michael Noonan, had increased the tax relief threshold for the Irish CAIA scheme from 80% to 100% in the 2015 budget (i.e. reduce the effective Irish corporate tax rate from 2–3% to 0%). This was changed back in the subsequent 2017 budget by Finance Minister Paschal Donohoe, however firms which had started their Irish CAIA scheme in 2015 (like Apple), were allowed to stay at the 100% relief level for the duration of their scheme , which can, under certain conditions, be extended indefinitely.\n\nIn November 2017, it was reported that the EU Commission had already asked for details on Apple's Irish structure post their January 2015 ruling.\n\nThe April 2017 release of Irish corporation tax returns showed an equivalent \"leprechaun economics\"–like jump. It led some to wonder whether Apple decided, given the exposure of its CAIA BEPS tool, and the controversy of \"leprechaun economics\", to \"still pay tax in Ireland\".\n\nAfter the 29 August 2016 ruling, the EU Commission followed up on the 31 August 2016 to counter statements from the Irish Government that Ireland would have to use the proceeds of any Apple fine to pay down public sector debt (in line with agreed EU budgetary rules), and to clarify that Ireland could allocate the money in whichever way the Irish Government lawfully saw fit. Regardless however, on the 7 September 2016, the Irish minority Government, with material opposition support, rejected the EU Commission's ruling on Apple, and the payment of €13 billion, plus penalties, to the Irish State.\n\nU.S. multinationals dominate Ireland's economy, attracted by Ireland's BEPS tools, that shield their non–U.S. profits from the historical U.S. \"worldwide\" corporate tax system. In contrast, multinationals from countries with \"territorial\" tax systems, by far the most common corporate tax system in the world, don't need to use corporate–tax havens like Ireland, as their foreign income is taxed at much lower rates. \n\nFor example, in 2016–17, U.S.–controlled multinationals in Ireland:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom the above table:\n"}
{"id": "41535570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41535570", "title": "Fantasy defense", "text": "Fantasy defense\n\nThe fantasy defense is where a defendant accused of attempting a crime (enticing minors into sexual activity, for example) claims that they never intended to complete the crime. Instead, they claim they were engaged in a fantasy and, in the case of luring a minor, believed they were dealing with an adult.\n\nThe fantasy defense was developed by Donald B. Marks, the attorney for Patrick Naughton, the Disney executive who eventually pleaded guilty to traveling in interstate commerce with the intent to have sex with a minor, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 2423(b).\nThe \"fantasy defense\" used in the Naughton case was novel; however, since the closely watched Naughton fantasy defense was successful, defense lawyers were expected to use it to help other clients.\n"}
{"id": "34012328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34012328", "title": "Frank McLardy", "text": "Frank McLardy\n\nGeorge Frank McLardy MPS (17 November 1915 – 16 December 1981) was a member of the British Union of Fascists, a British Nazi collaborator and an Unterscharführer in the Waffen-SS \"British Free Corps\" during the Second World War.\n\nGeorge Frank McLardy was born at 8 Sweden Grove, Waterloo, Lancashire in 1915, the eldest son of a draper, George McLardy, and his wife Mary (née Wood) McLardy. He had two younger brothers. He attended St Edmund's School, Waterloo and St Mary's College, Crosby, where he was a member of the First XV rugby and First XI cricket teams. Academically bright, McLardy progressed into St Mary's College Sixth Form. \n\nUpon leaving school in 1934 he studied pharmacy at the Liverpool School of Pharmacy. McLardy subsequently moved with his family to live in nearby Formby, where he was articled to a chemist. He qualified as a \"Member of the Pharmaceutical Society\" in October 1939.\n\nThat same year he joined the British Union of Fascists (BUF), becoming first district treasurer, then district leader in Waterloo. McLardy sold the BUF magazine \"Action\" around Crosby and Waterloo, and held his BUF meetings in a local public house, \"The Crosby Hotel\". The intelligence service MI5 began monitoring his activities in July 1937.\n\nOn the outbreak of World War II, McLardy volunteered for the Royal Army Medical Corps. He was posted to Aldershot, and owing to his qualifications, was promoted to the rank of sergeant. On 9 May 1940, he landed in France with the British Expeditionary Force. After pushing as far north as Brussels, his unit was beaten back by the Germans towards Dunkirk.\n\nMcLardy was captured near Wormhoudt on 31 May 1940. It was suspected that he deliberately became separated from his unit to be captured. He was sent first to Stalag XX-A at Thorn, and soon on to Stalag XXI-A at Schildberg (both in Poland). For three years McLardy remained in Schildberg as an ordinary prisoner of war, performing medical duties for his fellow prisoners in the camp hospital. \n\nAround this time McLardy began complaining of \"heart trouble\" and \"ear problems.\" He hoped for repatriation to the UK. His hopes were dashed in September 1943, however, when he was told that instead he would be moving to Stalag XXI-D at Posen, reputedly the worst camp in Poland.\n\nMcLardy claimed that he \"would not survive another Polish winter\", and recalled a conversation with a \"Dutch officer\" in Stalag XXI-A who stated that he had applied to join the Waffen-SS with a view to ultimately escape. McLardy approached a surprised Abwehr officer at Schildberg with the request that he might join the Waffen-SS. His application, written in his own hand in English was translated into German, then typed and forwarded to Berlin. \n\nIt stated \"I hereby apply to offer my services to Germany in the common struggle against Bolshevism and I express my willingness to serve as a soldier against Soviet Russia.\" Frank McLardy thus became the first British POW of World War II to volunteer to join the German armed forces. A reply was received three weeks later when an Abwehr guard arrived at the camp to escort him to Berlin.\n\nMcLardy was taken first to Stalag IIID/517S at Genshagen, south of Berlin. This was a \"holiday\" or Propaganda Camp established by the Germans in early 1943. Batches of prisoners from other camps were regularly sent there and offered special privileges in an attempt to undermine their loyalty.\n\nA recurring dream of Hitler's was the propaganda value of a battalion of British POWs who might be persuaded to go into battle against the Russians. An early attempt at recruitment had ended in abject failure. The \"Legion of St George\" had been the brainchild of John Amery. He toured the internment camps of France, distributing leaflets entitled \"Why die for Stalin? Why die for the Jews?\" \n\nHis only recruit was Kenneth Berry, a 17-year-old deckhand from a sunken ammunition ship, and Amery was soon sidelined by the Germans. But a group of men at Stalag IIID now caught the Germans' eye as the potential nucleus for another attempt to form such a foreign legion. Soon to be known as the \"Big Six\", they were William Brittain, New Zealander Roy Courlander, Canadian Edwin Barnard Martin, Seaman Alfred Minchin and McLardy.\n\nThese men were packed off to a requisitioned bierkeller in Pankow, Berlin and placed under the tutelage of Thomas Haller Cooper, a half-German who had already served in the SS \"Totenkopf\" and SS Polizei Division and boasted of committing atrocities against Jews and Russian POWs in Poland. The group decided among themselves to change the name of the \"Legion\" to the \"British Free Corps\" and soon set about designing uniforms and recruitment leaflets.\n\nMcLardy was given the rank of \"SS-Unterscharführer\", and put in charge of propaganda. Most members of the BFC changed their names on enlistment, and McLardy went under his mother's surname of \"Wood\". He regularly travelled to prisoner of war camps, dressed as a civilian, dropping off leaflets and interviewing likely recruits, claiming that there were two full divisions of the BFC – one, led by British officers, supposedly already fighting the Russians with the approval of the British government.\n\nIn expectation of a surge of recruits, in February 1944 the BFC were moved to an SS barracks at Hildesheim, a former monastery converted into the \"SS Nordic Study Centre\". The optimistic Germans had 800 Waffen-SS uniforms made, sporting a collar patch with three lions, and a union jack shield on the sleeve together with a \"British Free Corps\" armband in Gothic script.\n\nRecruits, many realising they had been duped, were subjected to lectures from McLardy on Economics, Bolshevism and the German language, and forced to give Nazi salutes to McLardy and the other ringleaders of the BFC. He would later be described by them as \"capable and intelligent\", a \"fanatical fascist\", who \"hoped for a fascist England\", but \"a physical and moral coward\", \"very anti-Jewish and anti-Russian\", \"a very learned man of high education\", \"reserved\", but who when aroused \"would talk for hours on National Socialism.\"\n\nSome members of the BFC stayed in it merely for an easy time, the beer and the chance to fraternise with local women. Others attempted to sabotage it, or demanded to be sent back to their POW camps. A schism developed in April 1944, when a group took exception to McLardy's increasingly pro-Nazi, anti-British harangues, and fisticuffs ensued. Thereafter McLardy, Courlander and Co. slept in a separate room, under pictures of Hitler, Himmler and the Nazi flag, while newer recruits occupied a room in which a picture of the Duke of Windsor had pride of place.\n\nOn Hitler's birthday, 20 April 1944, the BFC paraded in full uniform for the first time. The Corps continued to be riven by intrigue with Cooper, McLardy and Courlander all jockeying for control, at odds among themselves and with their German masters. Fewer than 60 men ever joined the BFC and its strength never rose above 27, three below the number Hitler had stipulated as the minimum for it to go into battle. By August 1944, McLardy, realising the British Free Corps was a failure, decided to abandon it and volunteered for the Waffen-SS \"Sanitätswesen\" (Medical Corps).\n\nHe was posted to the SS medical supply depot at Lichtenberg, and in his own words \"wore an ordinary SS uniform and lived the life of a German soldier.\" Towards the end of 1944, McLardy was selected for officer training. He was sent first to Graz, then to Stettin to commence his training. He realised the end of the war was near, and had no intention of becoming part of a last-ditch effort of the SS to defend the Third Reich. On reporting to Stettin in January 1945 he reported sick and was excused duties, and allowed to return to Berlin.\n\nMcLardy went to the SS Head Office and was offered work at the \"Rundfunkhaus\" and with the \"SS-Standarte Kurt Eggers.\" Desiring neither, he managed to dupe the SS into granting him leave, thinking he had accepted both. McLardy donned civilian clothes and went to ground in Berlin, living at \"33 Sächsische Strasse\", while he plotted his escape from the crumbling capital.\n\nIn early April he learned that the Propaganda Ministry's \"Büro Concordia\" was abandoning Berlin for Helmstedt, and persuaded them to take him along. He declined the job of broadcaster, but instead offered to \"monitor\" Allied broadcasts. McLardy left Berlin on 10 April 1945. By the time they reached Helmstedt the Reich was falling apart, and after a week McLardy told his associates he was heading for Hamburg.\n\nInstead, he posed as a Belgian, and after hiding on a farm at Döhren for two days, surrendered to the arriving Americans. He was handed into British custody on 19 April 1945 and repatriated to the UK on 13 May 1945.\n\nMcLardy was charged with \"voluntarily aiding the enemy whilst a prisoner of war\". He was court-martialled at Blacon Camp, near Chester and sentenced to life imprisonment on 1 January 1946. \n\nSecurity Service files on him are held by the National Archives under references KV 2/251 and KV 2/252. The sentence was later commuted to 15 years, of which McLardy served seven. McLardy received the heaviest sentence of those convicted of membership of the \"British Free Corps\". He served his sentence first at HM Prison Parkhurst, then in open prisons. During his imprisonment McLardy studied for an external degree in chemistry from Cambridge University. \n\nUpon his release in 1953, he emigrated to Germany, married a German woman and had two sons. He worked as a pharmacist and died in 1981 at Ingelheim am Rhein, near Mainz, aged 66.\n\nThe British Free Corps is featured in Jack Higgins' World War II thriller \"The Eagle Has Landed\". In 2010, an episode of \"Foyle's War\" concerned a member of the BFC put on trial for treason after the war.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2498774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2498774", "title": "General incorporation law", "text": "General incorporation law\n\nA general incorporation law allows corporations to be formed without a charter from the legislature. It also refers to a law enabling a certain type of corporation, such as a railroad, to exercise eminent domain and other special rights without a charter from the legislature.\n\nList of early general incorporation laws:\n\n\nThe UK required a legislative charter for incorporation until passage of the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844.\n"}
{"id": "15345663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15345663", "title": "Ghanaian constitutional referendum, 1964", "text": "Ghanaian constitutional referendum, 1964\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Ghana on 31 January 1964. The proposed amendments to the constitution would turn the country into a one-party state and increase the powers of President Kwame Nkrumah. With results showing that an implausible 99.91% of voters supported the amendments, the referendum was accused of being \"obviously rigged\". Voter turnout was reported to be 96.5%.\n\nFollowing the successful passage of the constitutional amendments, the country became a one-party state with the Convention People's Party as the sole legal party (though the country had essentially been a one-party state since independence in 1957). Nkrumah became president for life of both nation and party, with greatly expanded powers; he could now remove members of the Supreme Court at his discretion. In effect, the amendments transformed Nkrumah's regime into a legal dictatorship. Elections were scheduled to be held under this system in 1965, but were cancelled shortly beforehand, with Nkrumah appointing MPs instead. However, Nkrumah was overthrown in a coup in February 1966, the CPP was dissolved, and the constitution suspended. Multi-party politics was restored by the time of the next elections in 1969.\n"}
{"id": "12639213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12639213", "title": "Goldie Collins", "text": "Goldie Collins\n\nGoldsmith Collins (16 September 1901 – 27 April 1982) was an Australian rules footballer who played with Fitzroy in the VFL. \n\nHe made his debut with Fitzroy in 1922 and the following season was the club's best and fairest. His brothers, Harry and Norm both played for Fitzroy.\n\nCollins was a controversial character who was suspended for nearly two seasons for striking.\n\nOn 27 March 1953, on the basis of his having \"instituted 40 litigations in the last five years\", Collins was declared a vexatious litigant.\n\nLater that year, was jailed for four months, by the Supreme Court, for contempt of court, when he assaulted a detective who was attempting \"to take him into custody to serve a term of one month imposed for an earlier contempt in writing insulting letters to judges of the court\".\n\nIn April 1954, already in Pentridge Gaol, serving the earlier sentence, and, once again, charged with contempt of court, he put on an extraordinary display, shouting insults at the judge, etc., that the judge collapsed. Once the judge had recovered enough to be removed from the court, the Chief Justice, Sir Edmund Herring, was called to the court. Herring adjourned the hearing indefinitely and ordered that Collins be returned to Pentridge. Collins, then, \"fought violently with two warders and a court policeman and was hand cuffed by Detective-Sergeant W. W. Mooney, who had joined in to help them\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4152005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4152005", "title": "Gonzales v. O Centro Espírita Beneficente União do Vegetal", "text": "Gonzales v. O Centro Espírita Beneficente União do Vegetal\n\nGonzales v. O Centro Espírita Beneficente União do Vegetal, 546 U.S. 418 (2006), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that, under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, the government had failed to show a compelling interest in prosecuting religious adherents for drinking a sacramental tea containing a Schedule I controlled substance. After the federal government seized its sacramental tea, the União do Vegetal (UDV), the New Mexican branch of a Brazilian church that imbibes ayahuasca in its services, sued, claiming the seizure was illegal, and sought to ensure future importation of the tea for religious use. The church won a preliminary injunction from the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico, which was affirmed on appeal.\n\nThe Supreme Court affirmed. The Court also disagreed with the government's central argument that the uniform application of the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) does not allow for exceptions for the substance in this case, as Native Americans are given exceptions to use peyote, another Schedule I substance.\n\nOn May 21, 1999, U. S. Customs agents seized over of \"hoasca\" (ayahuasca) tea which was shipped to the Santa Fe, New Mexico branch of the Brazil-based UDV; ayahuasca contains dimethyltryptamine, which is outlawed for most purposes under the Controlled Substances Act. While no charges were filed, the United States chapter, led by Seagram heir Jeffrey Bronfman, filed suit claiming that the seizure was an illegal violation of the church members' rights. They claimed their usage was permitted under the 1993 Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), , a law passed by Congress in direct response to \"Employment Division v. Smith\" (1990), in which the Supreme Court held that unemployment benefits could be denied to two Native Americans fired for using Peyote.\n\nIn filing suit, the UDV sought a preliminary injunction preventing the federal government from barring their usage of hoasca. In August 2002, U.S. District Chief Judge James Aubrey Parker granted the church's motion, finding it was likely to succeed on the merits of its claim under RFRA.\n\nIn September 2003, United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit Senior Judge John Carbone Porfilio, joined by Judge Stephanie Kulp Seymour, affirmed, over the dissent of Judge Michael R. Murphy. In November 2004, a divided majority of the en banc 10th Circuit again affirmed in a per curiam decision, by a vote of 8-5. Judge Murphy, joined fully by Judges David M. Ebel, Paul Joseph Kelly Jr., and Terrence L. O'Brien, wrote separately to argue that the district court used the correct standard but should not have granted the preliminary injunction. Judge Seymour, joined by Judges Deanell Reece Tacha, Porfilio, Robert Harlan Henry, Mary Beck Briscoe, and Carlos F. Lucero, wrote separately to argue that the district court used the wrong standard but reached the correct result. Judge Michael W. McConnell, joined in full by Judge Timothy Tymkovich, argued that the district court used the correct standard to reach the correct result, and partially joined those parts of the other opinions that said so.\n\nAs it worked its way through the appellate courts, the Supreme Court lifted a stay in December 2004 thereby permitting the church to use hoasca for their Christmas services. One-hour of oral arguments were heard on November 1, 2005, where Edwin Kneedler, the Deputy Solicitor General of the United States, appeared for the government.\n\nOn February 21, 2006, the Supreme Court unanimously delivered judgment in favor of the church, affirming and remanding to the lower court. Chief Justice John Roberts wrote the opinion for a unanimous Court of eight justices. Justice Samuel Alito took no part in the consideration or decision of the case because he was not on the Court when the case was argued. The Court found that the government was unable to detail the government's compelling interest in barring religious usage of Hoasca when applying strict scrutiny as required by the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA).\n\nThe Court first found that the standard under RFRA for a preliminary injunction is the same as at trial, just as it would be for a constitutional claim. Disagreeing with the District Court, the Supreme Court found that Hoasca is covered under the 1971 United Nations Convention on Psychotropic Substances, which is implemented by the Controlled Substances Act (CSA). The Court rejected the District Court's reliance on the official commentary to the convention, reasoning that the United Nations had incorrectly interpreted the treaty when it found that tea made from plants is a naturally occurring material. However, because the government had failed to submit any evidence on the international consequences of granting an exemption to CSA enforcement by allowing UDV to practice its religion, the Court ruled that it had failed to meet its burden on this point. The Supreme Court ruled that the government failed to demonstrate a compelling interest in applying the Controlled Substances Act to the UDV's sacramental use of the tea.\n\nThe ruling upheld a preliminary injunction allowing the church to use the tea pending a lower court trial on a permanent injunction, during which the government would have had the opportunity to present further evidence consistent with the Supreme Court's ruling.\n\nThe ruling is not binding on states. The Act was amended in 2003 to only include the federal government and its entities, such as Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia. A number of states have passed their own version of the RFRA, but the \"Smith\" case remains the authority in these matters in many states.\n\nBronfman next sought to move the church's services from the yurt outside his home to a new building in Arroyo Hondo, New Mexico, promoting opposition from neighbors. When the county refused to grant the church a building permit, Bronfman sued under the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, and Assistant \nAttorney General Tom Perez of the United States Department of Justice Civil Rights Division filed a statement of interest in support of the church. In late 2012, a settlement was reached in which the county agreed to allow the church to be built.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24606070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24606070", "title": "Heliotrope (building)", "text": "Heliotrope (building)\n\nThe Heliotrope is an environmentally friendly house designed by the German architect Rolf Disch who also designed the Sonnenschiff (Sun Ship). Three such houses exist in Germany, the first experimental version having been built in 1994 as the architect's home in Freiburg im Breisgau, while the other two are used as exhibition buildings for the Hansgrohe company in Offenburg and a dentist's lab in Hilpoltstein in Bavaria. The Heliotrope in Freiburg was the first building in the world to capture more energy than it uses, all of which is entirely renewable, emissions free and CO neutral. The structure physically rotates to track the sun, which allows it to harness the maximum natural sunlight and warmth possible. Several different energy generation modules are used in the building including a dual-axis solar photovoltaic tracking panel, a geothermal heat exchanger, a combined heat and power unit (CHP) and solar-thermal balcony railings to provide heat and warm water. These innovations in combination with the superior insulation of the residence allow the Heliotrope to capture anywhere between four and six times its energy usage depending on the time of year. The Heliotrope is also fitted with a grey-water cleansing system and built-in natural waste composting.\n\nAt the same time that Freiburg’s Heliotrope was built, Hansgrohe contracted Rolf Disch Solar Architecture to design and build another Heliotrope to be used as a visitor’s center and showroom in Offenburg, Germany. A third Heliotrope was then contracted and built in Hilpoltstein, Bavaria to be used as a technical dental laboratory. Disch’s unique design accommodates different utilization from private residences to laboratories, and nevertheless maintains the structure’s positive energy balance.\nIn addition to the original Heliotrope design, Rolf Disch has drawn plans for larger versions of the project to be built as a rotating hotel, which gives every guest a beautiful view, as well as administrative buildings and even an exhibition pavilion for the EXPO 2010 in Shanghai.\nPlusEnergy is a coined concept developed by Rolf Disch that indicates a structure’s extreme energy efficiency so that it holds a positive energy balance, actually obtaining more energy than it uses. With the completion of his private residence, the Heliotrope, in 1994, Disch had created the first PlusEnergy house in the world. The sheer logic of a home that captures more energy than it consumes made perfect sense to Disch. His next goal in its development was thus the mass application of the concept to residential, commercial and retail space. As the concept further developed and gained financial backing as well, Disch built several more projects with PlusEnergy certifications. PlusEnergy is a simple concept that has been materialized in a technical design. “PlusEnergy is a fundamental environmental imperative,” Disch claims. Disch believes that passive building isn’t enough because passive homes still emit CO2 into the atmosphere.\n\nThe house is designed to face the sun with its triple-pane windows (U = 0.5) during the heating months of the year and turn its highly insulated back (U = 0.12) to the sun during the warmer months when heating isn't necessary. This significantly reduces heating and cooling requirements for the building throughout the year which are provided for by a heat pump, while hot water is provided by vacuum-tube solar panels.\n\nPhotovoltaic solar panels with a rated power of 6.6 kW on its roof provide five to six times more energy than the building uses, making the building energy positive (PlusEnergy). To further improve energy capture, the panels also rotate independently from the building to follow the sun, while being able to adapt its orientation in case of strong winds.\n\nIn order to limit water usage, a gray water circuit (for washing dishes and clothes) is used. It also collects rainwater. Waste water is purified in a vegetated cascade pond outside of the edifice.\n\nNatural waste and excrement are dry composted in the structure as well.\n\nOne of the main attractions of the house, apart from its low energy needs is its rotating view. As the building turns according to the sun's position, the view changes creating a spectacular view. This feature was later developed into a rotating hotel concept.\n\nThe roof deck includes a sun and viewing deck, as well as a garden terrace. The solar panels can be used for sun or rain protection while on the roof terrace.\n\nAll floors are accessible from the spiral staircase reducing surface loss through hallways and corridors.\n\n\nFurther potential for this building design includes plans that were drawn up for a possible Heliotrope Hotel. This project currently has no customers but was designed to show that the revolving design can easily be scaled up. The plans for a rotating hotel have surfaced on several occasions although the financing has not yet been available for its actualization.\n\n"}
{"id": "19042931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19042931", "title": "Home Detention Curfew", "text": "Home Detention Curfew\n\nHome Detention Curfew is a detention scheme in the United Kingdom whereby certain short-term criminals are released from prison several weeks to months before the completion of their sentence to allow them to integrate back into society. The scheme is used for prisoners who are sentenced to terms greater than three months. Long term prisoners (these serving a sentence of more than four years but excluding life sentence prisoners) cannot be considered for release on the scheme. HDC is not typically applied to sex offenders or violent criminals sentenced under the Crime and Disorder Act 1998. Prisoners are assessed for risk prior to being released under this scheme and fitted with an electronic monitoring tag to ensure that they do not violate the terms of their curfew. Typically, such prisoners are required to remain in their designated home between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "177237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177237", "title": "Hundred Thousand Billion Poems", "text": "Hundred Thousand Billion Poems\n\nA Hundred Thousand Billion Poems or One hundred million million poems (original French title: \"Cent mille milliards de poèmes\") is a book by Raymond Queneau, published in 1961. The book is a set of ten sonnets printed on card with each line on a separate strip. As all ten sonnets have not just the same rhyme scheme but the same rhyme sounds, any lines from a sonnet can be combined with any from the nine others, allowing for 10 (= 100,000,000,000,000) different poems. When Queneau ran into trouble creating the book, he solicited the help of mathematician Francois Le Lionnais, and in the process they initiated Oulipo.\n\nThe original French version of the book was designed by Robert Massin. Two full translations into English have been published, those by John Crombie and Stanley Chapman. Beverley Charles Rowe's translation, one that uses the same rhyme sounds, has been published online. In 1984, Edition Zweitausendeins in Frankfurt a.M. published a German translation by Ludwig Harig.\n\nIn 1997, a French court decision outlawed the publication of the original poem on the Internet, citing the Queneau estate and Gallimard publishing house's exclusive moral right.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13958788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13958788", "title": "Installment sale", "text": "Installment sale\n\nIn United States income tax law, an installment sale is generally a \"disposition of property where at least 1 loan payment is to be received after the close of the taxable year in which the disposition occurs.\" The term \"installment sale\" does not include, however, a \"dealer disposition\" (as defined in the statute) or, generally, a sale of inventory. The installment method of accounting provides an exception to the general principles of income recognition by allowing a taxpayer to defer the inclusion of income of amounts that are to be received from the disposition of certain types of property until payment in cash or cash equivalents is received. The installment method defers the recognition of income when compared with both the cash and accrual methods of accounting. Under the cash method, the taxpayer would recognize the income when it is received, including the entire sum paid in the form of a negotiable note. The deferral advantages of the installment method are the most pronounced when comparing to the accrual method, under which a taxpayer must recognize income as soon as he or she has a right to the income.\n\nIf a taxpayer realizes \"income\" (e.g., gain) from an installment sale, the income generally may be reported by the taxpayer under the \"installment method.\" The \"installment method\" is defined as \"a method under which the income recognized for any taxable year [ . . . ] is that proportion of the payments received in that year which the gross profit [ . . . ] bears to the total contract price.\" This means that if a taxpayer sells real estate with a basis of $250,000 for $1,000,000 resulting in 75% total profit then the taxpayer should claim 75% of the total principal payments received during the taxable year as gross income. The interest on the note is included in gross income by the taxpayer according to the taxpayer's usual method of accounting.\n\nNothing in the language of the governing statute (section 453 of the Internal Revenue Code) requires the use of the installment method where the disposition results in a loss. If the taxpayer disposes of property in an installment sale, he or she reports a portion of the gain at the time of receipt of each installment payment. Income from an installment sale is generally reported on IRS Form 6252, Installment Sale Income, to be included in the taxpayer's Federal income tax return for each year in which a payment is received.\n\nTaxpayers may elect out of the installment method and report the entire gain in the year of disposition, even though at least one payment will not have been received by the close of that year) by making the election on a timely filed income tax return for the tax year in which the disposition occurs.\n\nIt is important to note that \"contract price\" does not necessarily mean the dollar amount agreed to by contract. Instead, Treasury Regulation Sec. 15A.453-1(b)(2)(iii) defines contract price as \"the total contract price equal to selling price reduced by that portion of any qualifying indebtedness...assumed or taken subject to by the buyer, which does not exceed the seller's basis in the property (adjusted, for installment sales in taxable years ending after October 19, 1980, to reflect commissions and other selling expenses as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section).\" Qualifying indebtedness is further defined as a \"mortgage or other indebtedness encumbering the property and indebtedness, not secured by the property but incurred or assumed by the purchaser incident to the purchaser's acquisition, holding, or operation in the ordinary course of business or investment, of the property.\" Qualifying indebtedness specifically excludes any debts that are incident to the disposition of the property, such as legal fees incurred during the sale, or debts that are not functionally related to the taxpayer's holding of the property. This method of calculating contract price allows the installment method to more accurately account for the taxpayer's basis in the property.\n\nOne of the primary reasons that sellers elect out of the installment method is the harsh treatment of contingencies in the regulations accompanying IRC 453. Contingent payments are common in some types of installment sales, where, for example, payments are based on the actual rather than the expected profitability of the item sold (typically some percentage of the future profits). Where the contract calls for contingent payments, the regulations recognize three possibilities.\n\nFirst, the contingent payments may be subject to a stated maximum selling price, e.g., \"5% of future profits up to a maximum of $1,000,000.\" In this case, the regulations require the seller to calculate the profit ratio by assuming that the maximum will actually be reached. As compared to a situation where the maximum in fact is not reached, this requirement has the effect of increasing the profit ratio and thus the gain reportable for each year, deferring recovery of basis. Any deficiency between the actual amounts received and the stated maximum selling price will result in unrecovered basis, for which no loss may be reported until there is no more right to future payments.\n\nSecond, if there is no maximum selling price, the contingent payments may be subject to a finite duration, e.g., \"5% of future profits for ten years.\" In this case, the regulations require the basis to be apportioned ratably over the years in which payment can be received. Basis that is not used in one year is carried over to the next year. Especially if the item sold declines in profitability over the stated finite duration, it is possible that there will be unrecovered basis at the end of the period, for which no loss may be reported until that final year.\n\nFinally, there may be neither a maximum selling price nor a finite duration. In this case, the first step is to consider whether there is a sale at all; the transaction may in fact be for rent or royalties, since beneficial ownership arguably remains with the seller. However, if there is in fact a sale, there are two possibilities. First, the transaction may be subject to the judicial \"open transaction doctrine\" of Burnet v. Logan. Almost no sales are subject to this doctrine because it is applicable only to unusual and rare sales that are wholly speculative and impossible to value. If the open transaction doctrine applies, the taxpayer may completely recover basis before reporting any gain. This is by far the best tax treatment for the transaction, but it is likely to be attacked by the IRS and in most circumstances would not be sustained.\n\nMore likely, a contingent sale in the third category would be a closed transaction. This is the worst-case scenario. In this case, basis is allocated ratably over a fifteen-year period, but unused basis is not simply carried forward into the next year; instead unused basis is re-allocated over the balance of the 15-year term. No loss may be reported until the final year.\n\nIn all three of these scenarios, there is the possibility that there will be unrecovered basis on the back end of the transaction resulting in a capital loss. If, for example, the seller is an individual who is retiring off of the proceeds of the sale, the capital loss on the back end would be almost worthless (except to the nominal extent usable against ordinary income).\n\nThe alternative is to elect out of the installment method. In that case, the seller reports the fixed amounts (taking original issue discount into account for future fixed payments) \"plus\" the fair market value of the right to contingent payments. The taxpayer pays tax up front in the year of the sale on this total amount realized. The taxpayer \"then\" has a basis in the right to contingent payments equal to the amount reported as fair market value. The good news here is that the seller gets a little piece of the open transaction doctrine, and may fully recover basis in the contingent piece of the sale before reporting any additional contingent payments in future years. Where the profit ratio would have been high anyway and the fair market value of the contingent payments are low, the taxpayer may experience favorable consequences by effectively paying a little more tax up front and in return getting the first crop of contingent payments tax-free, while eliminating the risk of an unusable future capital loss.\n\nWhether or not the seller elects out, the total net gain or loss reported will be the same, but timing and characterization can vary widely.\n\nIf, instead of a note, consideration is held back in an escrow account, installment reporting may be available if the escrow imposes a \"substantial restriction\" and is arranged to \"serve a bona fide interest of the buyer.\" For example, if the escrow secures representations and warranties of the seller, installment reporting is available to report payments as they are released from escrow. In contrast, if amounts are released from escrow with the mere passage of time, installment reporting is not available.\n\nWhether, in a merger or acquisition, escrows established to secure the continued employment of selling shareholders who are also management employees (so-called \"golden handcuffs\") are reportable on the installment method is currently an unresolved question, even if it is assumed that such amounts are properly treated as merger consideration and not compensation for employment. On the one hand, such conditions are clearly established for the benefit of the buyer. On the other, amounts in escrow appear to be released with the passage of time in a manner that is within the control of the seller, and so arguably the escrow does not impose a \"substantial\" restriction.\n\nInstallment sales are a valuable tool to help sellers defer tax. As with any other seller financing, however, the seller is generally at risk with respect to the buyer's creditworthiness or ability to manage the asset. The seller may often retain a lien against the property to secure payment of the installment obligation, which itself may or may not be evidenced by a promissory note.\n\nThe installment sale allows buyers to obtain an asset such as real estate without bank financing. The seller is then at risk of buyer default and the consequential repossession/foreclosure of the asset.\n\nA sales method called the Structured sale, also known as the Ensured Installment Sale and a Monetized Installment Sale, are variations of the traditional installment sale and is intended to protect the seller completely from the risk in connection with the buyer's creditworthiness.\n\n"}
{"id": "34419677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34419677", "title": "International Review of Victimology", "text": "International Review of Victimology\n\nThe International Review of Victimology is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of victimology. The editor-in-chief is Joanna Shapland (University of Sheffield) and the editors are Edna Erez (University of Illinois at Chicago), Matthew Hall (Sheffield University), Leslie Sebba (The Hebrew University) and Jo-Anne Wemmers (Université de Montréal). It was established in 1989 and is currently published by SAGE Publications.\n\nThe Journal focuses upon traditional areas of victimological research, such as offender typologies, victim-offender Relationship, victimization surveys, victim compensation, the victim in the criminal justice system, reparation and restitution by offenders and crime prevention for victims. The International Review of Victimology also looks at broader theoretical issues such as definitions of victimization and the philosophy of victimology. This in turn opens the door to the consideration of political and human rights issues, including victims of war crimes, and contribution with a comparative perspective. Occasionally, there are special issues dealing with specific topics. Each issue contains reviews of relevant books. \n\nThe International Review of Victimology was first published in 1989 under the leadership of John Freeman and Leslie Sebba. The new journal was meant to reflect current developments in the field of victimology, in which leading experts in the field would have an input, not only as contributors, but also in terms of editorial policy and via the peer review process. Unfortunately, at the time of publishing the first issue, it was already clear that John Freeman would have to retire as editor due to health problems. David Miers, originally the Associate Editor, succeeded John Freeman as editor, working with Leslie Sebba, and Joanna Shapland became Associate Editor. As the number of submissions and interest in the field of victimology increased, so it was necessary to increase the numbers of editors. Joanna Shapland became Editor (subsequently Executive Editor) in 2002.\n\nThe idea of creating an international journal in victimology was conceived at the Third International Symposium on Victimology, which was held in 1979 in Munster (Germany). Finding a publisher who was interested in bringing out the journal was not an easy task. Finally, John Freeman found AB Academic Publishing, a small privately owned company, which was owned by Ena Adams. ABA continued to publish the journal until 2011 when it was sold to SAGE. Since its start, the Review has been published in association with the World Society of Victimology, though it is editorially independent from the WSV.\n\nThe \"International Review of Victimology\" is abstracted and indexed in Current Law Index.\n"}
{"id": "40829113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40829113", "title": "Interstate Wildlife Violator Compact", "text": "Interstate Wildlife Violator Compact\n\nThe Interstate Wildlife Violator Compact (IWVC) is a United States interstate compact (an agreement among participating states) to provide reciprocal sharing of information regarding sportsman fishing, hunting, and trapping violations and allows for recognition of suspension or revocation of hunting, fishing, and trapping licenses and permits in other member states resulting from violations concerning hunting, fishing and trapping laws in order to prevent poaching across state lines. \n\nIllegal activities in one state can thus affect a person’s hunting or fishing privileges in all member states. The IWVC obligates members to report wildlife violation convictions to Compact members, gives the members the capability to honor each other's suspensions, and provides the method to exchange violator data between member states. A conviction in one Compact member state may cause them to be barred from participating in hunting, fishing, and trapping in all member states, at the discretion of each state.\n\nIf a person's license or permit privileges which come under the scope of the Compact are suspended or revoked in one member state, they are subject to suspension or revocation in all member states. In addition to license and permit suspensions and revocations which result from a conviction for the illegal pursuit, possession or taking of mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians, mollusks, shellfish and crustaceans, failing to appear in court or to otherwise answer a ticket or summons issued for such violations will also result in license or permit suspension. Compact member states also agree to recognize convictions for violations within the scope of the Compact which occur in all other member states and to apply them toward license and permit suspension and revocations in the state in which the person resides.\n\nThe Interstate Wildlife Violator Compact also establishes a process whereby wildlife law violations by a non-resident from a member state are handled as if the person were a resident, meaning they can be served a ticket rather than being arrested, booked, and bonded. This process is a convenience for hunters, fishermen, and trappers of member states, and increases efficiency of Game Wardens by allowing more time for enforcement duties rather than violator processing procedures.\n\nEach member state honors all similar wildlife violation suspensions from other member states. This would include Failure to Appear in court violations. One of the benefits to sportsman who violate wildlife laws is if they are from a member state game warden can write them a simple citation instead of taking them to jail and having them post a cash bond. If a non-resident sportsman is issued a wildlife citation fails to comply with the citation or appear in court, the Wildlife Agency of that state will notify their home state of a Failure to Comply. The home state will then suspend that person's resident hunting or fishing license. Once the sportsman complies with the initial violation, their home state will be notified and their resident license will be reinstated. The threat of not being able to hunt, fish, or trap in most states will serve as a powerful deterrent to would be poachers.\n\nFor a state to become a part of the compact, the state first must pass a legislation to join then the state's wildlife agency will adopt regulations to implement the membership. Membership in the compact requires no additional funding or additional staffing, however, as of 2018, there is a $500 annual membership fee for each state. Entering the violators into the database take a small amount of time and is normally the responsibility of the state's existing wildlife agency personnel.\n\nThe concept of a wildlife violator compact was first advanced in the early 1980s by member states in the Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies. Law enforcement administrators and Wildlife Commissioners from several states began discussing the idea of a compact based on the format of the existing Driver License Compact and Non-Resident Violator Compacts, both of these related to motor vehicle operator licensing and enforcement.\n\nIn 1985 draft compacts were developed independently in Colorado and Nevada. Subsequently, these drafts were merged and the Interstate Wildlife Violator Compact was created. During the 1989 Legislative session compact legislation was passed into law in Colorado, Nevada and Oregon. These three states formed the nucleus of the compact.\n\nThe 48 IWVC member states are: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska (bill is currently on the Governor's desk), Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Dakota, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.\n\nEvery state which is a member has a page describing the compact. Here are some of them.\n\nThese two states are, as of July 2018, not members of the IWVC: Hawaii, and Massachusetts. \n\nState legislation is pending in Massachusetts to enter the Commonwealth into the IWVC and to update penalties for existing wildlife crimes, including elevating fines, jail time, and license suspensions. Entering the IWVC will prevent wildlife violators who have lost their hunting, trapping, or fishing privileges in member states from going to Massachusetts to circumvent their license revocations and preventing Massachusetts residents who have lost their licenses from going out of state to evade punishment. The legislation also creates heightened penalties for chronic poachers and those who kill animals for pure thrill, to give the Massachusetts Environmental Police an additional tool to target those who intentionally and repeatedly disregard the laws in place to protect wildlife.\n\nThe compact creates reciprocity among member states for purposes of hunting, fishing, and trapping license suspensions. In most instances, when a resident of a Compact state (\"home state\") commits a wildlife violation in another member state (\"charging state\"), the officer in the charging state can treat the non-resident violator as though he/she were a resident - issuing a citation and releasing him/her on personal recognizance. If the violator fails to comply with the citation, the charging state may request the violator's home state to suspend hunting privileges until the violator complies with the terms of the ticket. If the violator is convicted, he/she will be entered into the Compact database. The home state and all member states may treat the conviction as though it occurred in their own state for purposes of license suspension. \n\nThe Compact reduces poaching through reciprocal recognition of license suspensions which reduces interstate wildlife violator movement. Previous to the Compact, a poacher could lose their license and simply cross state lines with no penalty. They would have to lose their license in each state in order for penalties to take effect. With the Compact, poachers caught poaching in a participating state, he/she will be held accountable for his/her actions across any participating state. \n\nThe Compact streamlines the process for dealing with non-resident violators, conserving valuable state resources and enhancing efficiency of services. There are fewer arrests because officers can cite-and-release non-residents, thereby reducing the burden on jail facilities and courts. In addition, since a non-resident offender is subject to license suspension in his/her state home state for failure to comply with a citation, he/she has the same incentive to comply as a resident - reducing failure-to-appear cases. \n\nThere are a few steps required for a state to join the Compact:\n\n1. The state must pass legislation to join (incorporating the Compact directly into the state's statutes or authorizing the state wildlife agency to join). \n\n2. The agency must adopt regulations to implement Compact membership. States communicate suspensions with each other using the Compact database, which stores revocation information. \n\n3. States must pay an annual fee of $500 for access to the database. Entering violators into the Compact and ratifying other states' suspensions requires a minor time commitment and this responsibility is usually carried out by existing agency personnel. \n\nThe Compact provides general procedures to be followed by enforcement agencies and courts. A state can develop specific Compact procedures to comply with legal and administrative requirements of that state as long as the procedures comply with the intent of the Compact. The Compact does not affect the right of any participating state to apply any of its laws relating to license privileges to any person or circumstance. When the Compact conflicts with a state's laws, it remains in full force and effect for the at state without the conflicting provision. \n"}
{"id": "405414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405414", "title": "Jews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership", "text": "Jews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership\n\nJews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership (JPFO) is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization dedicated to the preservation of gun rights in the United States and to encourage Americans to understand, uphold, and defend \"all of the Bill of Rights for all Citizens.\" The group was founded by U.S. Navy veteran, former FFL dealer, and author Aaron S. Zelman in 1989. Jews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership recognizes the Second Amendment as protecting a pre-existing natural law right of individuals to keep and bear arms. It is based in Bellevue, Washington.\n\nJews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership takes the position that an armed citizenry is the population's last line of defense against tyranny by their own government. The organization is noted for producing materials (bumper stickers, posters, billboards, booklets, videos, etc.) with messages that equate gun control with totalitarianism. The most famous of these are the \"All in favor of Gun Control raise your right hand\" materials, which features a drawing of Adolf Hitler giving a Nazi salute. The organization also attempts to prove that genocide is linked to gun control, by showing that most countries where a genocide has taken place had gun control first.\n\nMembers are not required to be Jewish. The only membership requirement is that you must be a \"law-abiding citizen,\" by \"obeying the Bill of Rights.\"\n\nJews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership has been highly critical of the Anti-Defamation League (ADL). In pamphlets such as \"Why Does the ADL Support Nazi-Based Laws?\" and \"JPFO Facts vs. ADL Lies,\" the JPFO has accused the ADL of undermining the welfare of the Jewish people.\n\nIn response, Abraham Foxman, National Director of the Anti-Defamation League, wrote about the JPFO, \"Anti-Semitism has a long and painful history, and the linkage to gun control is a tactic by Jews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership to manipulate the fear of anti-Semitism toward their own end... It is a campaign that has been viewed with concern by many in the Jewish community.\"\n\nJews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership is probably most noted for its claim that parts of the text of the Gun Control Act of 1968 were translated from Nazi legislation. The German Weapons Law, which existed before the Nazis came to power in 1933, was altered on 18 March 1938 by the Nazi Government. The JPFO's claim is based in part on the fact that the 1968 GCA introduces the \"sporting purpose\" test to distinguish different types of weapons, similar to the \"sporting purpose\" test that existed in the German law in question. Senator Thomas Dodd was a prosecutor at the Nuremberg Trials and had reviewed copies of the Nazi Germany firearms laws, and in 1968 requested translations of these from the Library of Congress.\n\nBernard Harcourt, professor at the University of Chicago Law School, in discussing this fundamental proposition advanced by the JPFO, notes, \"[O]n January 13th, 1919, the Reichstag enacted legislation requiring surrender of all guns to the government. This law, as well as the August 7, 1920, \"Law on the Disarmament of the People\" passed in light of the Versailles Treaty, remained in effect until 1928, when the German parliament enacted the \"Law on Firearms and Ammunition\" (April 12, 1928)—a law which relaxed gun restrictions and put into effect a strict firearm licensing scheme.\" Harcourt continued, \"To be sure, the Nazis were intent on killing Jewish persons and used the gun laws and regulations to further the genocide\", but he concluded that the firearms laws were not central to implementing the Holocaust.\n\nAttorney and author Stephen Halbrook, in his law article \"Nazi Firearms Law and the Disarming of the German Jews\", asserts that German arms laws were extremely lax, and even under the 1920 \"Law on the Disarmament of the People\", only items such as grenades and machineguns were banned and small arms such as rifles and pistols remained in common use. Valery Polozov, a former advisor to the committee on national security in the Russian Duma, claims in his book \"Firearms in Civil Society\" that Germany did not in fact have comprehensive gun control legislation up until 1928, which created the legal framework later built upon by the Nazis. Halbrook did clarify in the first sentences of his article that, \"Gun control laws are depicted as benign and historically progressive. However, German firearm laws and hysteria created against Jewish firearm owners played a major role in laying the groundwork for the eradication of German Jewry in the Holocaust.\"\n\nJPFO publishes for its membership the \"Bill of Rights Sentinel,\" a quarterly newsletter, with a masthead featuring the motto, \"All the Bill of Rights for All Citizens.\"\n\nJPFO founder Aaron Zelman believed in the importance of the Bill of Rights and encouraged Americans to celebrate Bill of Rights Day (December 15th).\n\nModeled after the Doomsday Clock, JPFO's \"Gun Confiscation Clock\" tracks what JPFO sees as the threat to Americans' right to keep and bear arms.\n\nIn 2010, JPFO Founder Aaron Zelman issued an open letter to NRA Board of Directors member Ted Nugent, titled \"The Day I'll join the NRA.\"\n\nThe JPFO David & Goliath Award, created in 2011, recognizes achievements of individuals or groups in the preservation of firearms ownership. Recipients include: David Codrea and Mike Vanderboegh, the investigative reporters who broke the Fast and Furiousscandal (2011); Emily Miller, the Washington Times columnist who documented Washington, D.C.’s reluctance to obey its own gun laws (2013); Stephen P. Halbrook, Ph.D., the author and attorney who linked Nazi gun confiscations directly to the Holocaust (2014): and Kyle Kashuv, Stoneman Douglas High School mass murder survivor and Second Amendment rights activist (2018).\n\nJPFO's \"Don't Inspire Evil Initiative\" is a proposal that \"calls upon all journalists to refrain from gratuitous or repetitious portrayal of mass murderers' names and images.\"\n\nIn 2018, JPFO advisory board member Dov Marhoffer, a Holocaust concentration camp survivor, penned an op-ed titled \"Never Again\" calling attention to what JPFO believes to be an appropriate historical understanding and context of the motto. In the piece, Marhoffer sees alternative usage of the motto promoting gun control as inappropriate.\n\nJPFO's Rabbinic Directors, providing guidance on Judaism and firearms, include Rabbi R. Mermelstein and Rabbi Dovid Bendory.\n\nZelman died on December 21, 2010, age 64.\n"}
{"id": "1351019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1351019", "title": "Krantikari Morcha", "text": "Krantikari Morcha\n\nKrantikari Morcha ('Revolutionary Front') was political coalition in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It was launched by Mulayam Singh Yadav in 1987, as Yadav led a split in the Lok Dal. Mulayam's Lok Dal faction managed get the Communist Party of India, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Chandra Shekar's Janata Party, the Janwadi Party and Maneka Gandhi's Sanjay Vichar Manch.\n"}
{"id": "4459096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4459096", "title": "Law Library of Congress", "text": "Law Library of Congress\n\nThe Law Library of Congress is the law library of the United States Congress. The library contains the complete record of American law as well as materials from over 240 other global legal jurisdictions. Established in 1832, its collections are currently housed in the James Madison Memorial Building of the Library of Congress. With over 2.8 million volumes, it is the largest law library in the world.\n\n\"From the Law Library of Congress website:\"\n\nThe mission of the Law Library of Congress is to provide research and legal information to the U.S. Congress as well as to U.S. Federal Courts and Executive Agencies, and to offer reference services to the public ... To accomplish this mission, it has created the world's largest collection of law books and other legal resources from all countries, and now moves into the age of digitized information with online databases and guides to legal information worldwide.\n\nThe Library of Congress was established as an in-house reference library for Congress in 1800, the year the government moved from Philadelphia to the new city of Washington, D.C. Law books made up nearly 20% of the initial collection. These were for the most part publications in English and International law.\n\nThe first Library of Congress was destroyed when the British burned the Capitol Building in 1814. It was replaced by the purchase of the library of Thomas Jefferson in 1815. This brought 475 law titles, 318 of which were published in England. It included Virginia laws and court decisions, but material from other states (which Jefferson had classified as \"foreign law\") remained limited. Although the Library received copies of all federal laws and Supreme Court decisions, obtaining state laws and decisions of state courts remained a problem for decades.\n\nThere were repeated efforts to extend the use of what was generally called \"The Congress Library\" to other government officials and especially to the federal judiciary. The United States Supreme Court sat in the United States Capitol Building from 1801 to 1935. For the first decade of the nineteenth century its Justices could not formally use the Library of Congress, although they may have been able to consult the books with a letter of introduction from a Member of Congress. On March 2, 1812, a Joint Resolution of both Houses of Congresses authorized use of the Library by the justices of the Supreme Court, on whose behalf Chief Justice John Marshall (served 1801–1835) wrote a polite letter thanking Congress for the favor.\n\nThe first three decades of the nineteenth century saw repeated unsuccessful attempts to establish a separate Law Library to serve both Congress and the Supreme Court. The initiative came from those members of Congress who had had distinguished legal or judicial careers. On January 20, 1832, New York Senator William L. Marcy, a sometime Associate Judge of the Supreme Court of New York, introduced a bill to \"Increase and Improve the Law Department of the Library of Congress\". This time, the Bill passed both Houses of Congress and was signed by President Andrew Jackson on July 14, 1832. (The Statute remains in force, now listed as , , , and .)\n\nThe Act directed the Librarian to prepare an \"apartment\" for the purpose of a law library and to remove the law books from the library into the apartment. The Justices of the Supreme Court were authorized to make rules and regulations for the use of the Law Library during the sitting of the court. The Law Library, however, remained a part of the Library of Congress which was responsible for its incidental expenses.\n\nA sum of $5,000 was appropriated \"for the present year\" to purchase law books, with $1,000 for each of the next five years. The books would be selected by the Chief Justice. Some 2,011 law books (693 of which had belonged to Thomas Jefferson) were transferred from the general collection, and became the nucleus of a collection that now exceeds 2 million volumes. The Law Library thus acquired its own appropriation and budget line, as well as a statutory relationship with the Supreme Court that would endure until 1935.\n\nFrom 1860 to 1897, the Law Library was housed in the former Supreme Court Chamber in the Capitol Building. A spiral staircase connected this with the Court in the room above, and the Custodian of Law (the early title of the official later called the Law Librarian, the first of whom would be Charles Henry Wharton Meehan) climbed the stair to deliver materials requested by the Justices. The rules of the Law Library, set down by the Chief Justice, permitted the Justices of the Supreme Court, Members of Congress, and some \"gentlemen of the bar having a case on the docket\" to sign out up to three books from the collection. The Custodian of Law helped patrons to find the law by physically locating a book and putting it in their hands. A special collection of major texts and court decisions was reserved for the exclusive use of the Justices.\n\nThe acquisition of the Louisiana Territory (1803) and of Florida (1819), which brought property and inheritance systems based on French and Spanish law, provided some incentive for the acquisition of books from the civil law tradition. The first systematic effort to collect foreign law came in 1848 soon after the conclusion of the Mexican War, when Congress directed the Library to obtain all available laws of Mexico. In the second half of the nineteenth century collections of laws of the major European nations were added.\n\nAlthough the Library of Congress was founded and funded to serve Congress, from the earliest years there was pressure to make its collections available to the public as well as to government officials. By the end of the nineteenth century members of the public were free to consult the collections, although only Members of Congress and a few other officials could borrow books. The Law Library had a few tables, which were usually occupied by students from local law schools.\n\nThe Law Librarian's Annual Report for 1898 described a room \"about 50 feet square. This cockpit, dim-lighted and inconvenient, ... is expected to accommodate the justices, lawyers engaged in cases, the members of the bar in search of light, as well as law students.\" Service was limited by crowding, short hours, and a small staff who were obligated to serve Congress and the Supreme Court before anyone else. A law reading room with a limited collection was set up in the newly opened Library of Congress Building in 1897, and eventually the entire collection and staff moved to less crowded quarters in the new building.\n\nThe 20th century saw a major expansion of the scope of all Law Library activities. Reference service to the public benefited from a larger and, equally important, a well-catalogued collection. In the first decade of the 20th century the Law Library began a program of publication of authoritative reference works on the laws of the United States and of major foreign nations. After the early 1900s the Law Library was led by a series of Law Librarians with high professional qualifications and previous experience in the practice of law, the foreign service, or academic law schools. They oversaw what became a major on-going program of legal indexing, first for the laws of the United States and then for those of foreign nations.\n\nIn 1899 the law collection consisted of 103,000 volumes (including 15,000 duplicates), of which about 10,000 were in foreign languages. By 1950, 150,000 of 750,000 volumes were in foreign languages. The major acquisition of foreign language material came after the Second World War, and reflected the great increase in the absolute number of jurisdictions in the world, the changing position of the United States in world affairs and the deliberate policy of attempting to collect legal material from all jurisdictions.\n\nThe 1909 publication of the index to the United States federal statutes, which immediately became a standard reference work for law libraries, marked the beginning of the Law Library's transition from a purely local reference library to a major center for legal research. Law Librarian Dr. Edwin Borchard began the production of bibliographic guides to the law of foreign countries with the 1912 publication of a guide to the law of Germany, followed in 1913 by his own \"Bibliography of International Law and Continental Law\". For the next several decades major publications on the laws of Spain, France, the larger Latin American countries, Eastern Europe and East Asia were produced, usually with support from various foundations or government agencies. Initially the work was done by temporary staff or outside experts, but after the mid-1930s the Law Library gradually began adding permanent staff whose primary qualifications were in foreign rather than United States law.\n\nThe permanent staff of the Law Library grew from 5 in 1901 to 6 in 1910, stayed at 7 from 1911 through 1921, and numbered 10 in 1924. Their numbers were augmented by sets of temporary workers employed on specific projects and funded either by grants from foundations or by one-time Congressional appropriations. By 1946 the total had increased to 30, and the Law Library requested 30 additional positions to relieve the overburdened staff.\n\nFunding from outside bodies supported the expansion of the Law Library's foreign research capabilities after the Second World War. From 1949 to 1960 the National Committee for a Free Europe supported a staff of 12 lawyers from Eastern European and Baltic countries then under Communist rule. In 1951 the Department of State began a Far Eastern Law Project, under which refugee scholars from China collected and translated legal material from the newly established People's Republic of China.\n\nBy the 1950s the Law Library responded to the manifold problems of trying to find, much less interpret, foreign legal information by striving to, whenever possible, employ individuals trained in the law of the country in question and able to provide authoritative answers in English. The staff of foreign-trained attorneys has, over the years since the late 1940s, included former judges, private practitioners, diplomats and legislative drafters. In fact, the foreign attorneys play a significant role in developing the collection, selecting the most relevant texts and serials for the jurisdictions they cover.\n\nBy 1960 the pattern of a Reading Room providing reference service in United States federal and state law and a foreign legal research and reference wing staffed by specialists with expertise in the laws of particular foreign countries was set.\n\nIn 1981, the library's collections were moved across Independence Avenue to the sub-basement of the recently constructed James Madison Memorial Building. Moving the library's 1.6 million volumes took four months, and a new reading room opened in April 1981 on the second floor of the Madison building. The new stacks occupied 81,000 square feet, totaling 59.5 linear miles of mobile shelving.\n\nBy 2002, the Madison building stacks were full, and additional materials were sent to the Library of Congress' High Density Storage Facility in Fort Meade, Maryland.\n\nAfter about 1900, as the volume of acquisitions and the percentage of foreign language materials both increased and the workload of the Supreme Court also increased, the Justices played a diminishing role in the selection of books for the Law Library. The move of the Supreme Court to its own building in 1935, and the establishment of a separate Supreme Court Library of American and British law brought the close institutional relations between the Law Library and the Court to an end. The Law Library continues to support the Supreme Court's needs for information on foreign and international law.\n\nCongress established the Legislative Reference Service (the organizational ancestor of the present Congressional Research Service) in 1914, but for its first decade the LRS was headed by the Law Librarian and much of its work consisted of legal indexing, for both American and foreign law, and responses to Congressional requests about American, International and foreign law.\n\nBy the late 1920s the division of labor that endures to the present was established. The RS (later CRS) contains an American Law Section (now Division) working exclusively for Congress and depending on the collection maintained by the Law Library. The Law Library operates the Reading Room, provides reference service in U.S. law to Congress on a priority basis, and is responsible for all reference and research service in foreign, comparative and international law.\n\nIndexes and other finding aids are indispensable tools for legal research, but the laws of many countries are not well-indexed or available in authoritative or up-to-date codes or collections. The first major project of the Law Library was the 1907–1910 preparation of an index to United States federal statutes, an endeavor funded by a special Congressional appropriation. In 1902 the Librarian of Congress, Herbert Putnam, proposed a comprehensive index to current legislation from all the countries of the world. He noted that \"If accompanied by a reference to preceding statutes or by brief abstracts ... it may become an instrument of the highest value not merely to the theoretic investigator, but to the practical legislator\". Although there were far fewer sovereign countries in 1902 than today, Congress's practical legislators refused to fund so ambitious a project. The idea did not die though, and various guides to the legislation of foreign countries were produced as funding permitted.\n\nLegislative indexing was a major activity of the Legislative Reference Service during its first ten years (1916–1924), and the staff of the Law library began keeping a card index to Latin American laws in the late 1920s. This was eventually published as the Index to Latin American Legislation in a two volume set in 1961, with two supplements - in 1973 and 1978 - covering the years from 1961 through 1975. The indexing of Latin American legislation continued, being adapted to existing information-processing technology as it developed from the 1970s through the 1990s.\n\nBy the 1990s, indexes and guides to the laws of many developed nations had become available, often on a commercial basis, as electronic files accessible through the Internet. Although not usually available to the general public, the Law Library's legal specialists used these for their research. But, control of a rapidly expanding body of legal information from a growing number of jurisdictions remained a major challenge to legal researchers. One institutional solution arrived at was an international, cooperative network that makes indexes, abstracts and the complete text of new laws available over the Internet. This is the Global Legal Information Network (GLIN), which is coordinated by the Law Library of Congress. The Library's foreign law efforts are via its Directorate of Legal Research, which has a staff of foreign–trained lawyers from around the world along with research specialists.\n\nIn August 2009, the Law Library of Congress issued a controversial and disputed legal opinion report titled \"\". The report was originally commissioned by Congressman Aaron Schock (R., Ill.), prepared by Senior Foreign Law Specialist Norma Gutiérrez, and published by the Law Library of Congress. It features a legal analysis of the 2009 Honduran constitutional crisis with a specific examination of the legality of President Manuel Zelaya's 28 June 2009 removal from office and expatriation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858380", "title": "Legal Services Commission", "text": "Legal Services Commission\n\nThe Legal Services Commission (LSC) was an executive non-departmental public body of the Ministry of Justice that was responsible for the operational administration of legal aid in England and Wales.\n\nThe LSC was responsible for a budget of around £2 billion annually, and helping over 2 million people with their legal problems across England and Wales each year. It was established under the Access to Justice Act 1999 and in 2000 replaced the Legal Aid Board (founded 30 June 1949). Sponsored by the Ministry of Justice, the LSC helped to protect the fundamental rights of the individual and addressed problems that contribute to social exclusion. The Chair of the LSC was Sir Bill Callaghan and its work was overseen by an independent board of commissioners. The Chief Executive of the LSC was Matthew Coats.\n\nThe Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 made provision for the abolition of the LSC. The LSC was replaced by the Legal Aid Agency, an executive agency of the Ministry of Justice, on 1 April 2013. The agency carries out a similar function to the LSC, although executive agency status differs from the LSC's non-departmental public body status. Independence of decision-making within the Legal Aid Agency is through the post of a Director of Legal Aid Casework, who has independence from the Lord Chancellor in applying directions and guidance to any individual funding decision. Matthew Coats is the Chief Executive of the new agency, and he is also the Director of Legal Aid Casework.\n\nThe LSC was responsible for the development and administration of two service programmes: \n\n\nThe CLA aimed to improve access to quality information and help for civil legal problems, in fields such as family, debt and housing law. CLA provides direct legal advice services to the public via its Community Legal Advice website and helpline, and also provides advice centre offices for low-income individuals and families, who are referred to participating solicitors and advice agencies that are certified through the CLA's Quality Mark scheme.\n\nThe CDS provides free legal advice and representation for people facing criminal charges who are unable to pay for legal help. This is supplied through criminal solicitors’ offices and the Public Defender Service.\n\nIn the House of Commons on 20 July 2010 Robert Buckland MP made what the Parliamentary Under-secretary of State for Justice, Jonathan Djanogly, described as \"serious accusations of mismanagement\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4146380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4146380", "title": "List of LGBT-related cases before international courts and quasi-judicial bodies", "text": "List of LGBT-related cases before international courts and quasi-judicial bodies\n\nThis list contains cases of the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR), Inter-American Court of Human Rights, Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), European Committee of Social Rights (ECSR) and United Nations Human Rights Committee (UN HRC) related to LGBT people.\n\nPending before ECtHR:\n\nAlekseyev v. Russia № 9689/06, Alekseyev (No. 2) v. Russia № 25924/08 merged with № 4916/07; Fedotova v. Russia, № 2064/10; Sutyagin v. Russia, № 13518/10; Alekseyev, Bayev, Nepomnyaschiy v. Russia, № 39954/09, Beizaras and Levickas v. Lithuania No. 41288/15.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19395600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19395600", "title": "List of U.S. state constitutional provisions allowing self-representation in state courts", "text": "List of U.S. state constitutional provisions allowing self-representation in state courts\n\nMost U.S. states have a constitutional, statutory, judicial code, or court decision provision either expressly or by interpretation allowing self-representation in state courts.\n"}
{"id": "221043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221043", "title": "List of law schools in the United States", "text": "List of law schools in the United States\n\nLaw schools in this list are categorized by whether they are currently active, proposed, or closed; within each section they are listed in alphabetical order by state, then name. Most of these law schools grant the Juris Doctor degree, which is the typical first professional degree in law in the United States.\n\nLaw schools are nationally accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA), and graduates of these schools may generally sit for the bar exam in any state. There are 206 ABA accredited law schools, divided between 202 with full accreditation and with provisional accreditation. However, Whittier Law School will no longer be taking students and the legal program will be discontinued.\n\nIn addition, individual state legislatures or bar examiners, like the State Bar of California, may maintain a separate accreditation system which is open to non-ABA accredited schools. The California State Bar also accredits law schools, which the California Committee of Bar Examiners (CBE) recognizes. Also, the CBE allows registered \"Unaccredited\" schools to operate and students of those schools are eligible to take the California Bar Examination upon graduation.\n\nNo correspondence or online law schools are accredited by the ABA or by state bar examiners. However, twelve correspondence and online law schools, although not accredited, are registered by the Committee of Bar Examiners of the State Bar of California. This means that the graduates of these distance learning law schools can sit for the California Bar Examination and, under varying circumstances, the bar exams in many other states.\n\n - Provisional ABA accreditation expired in June 2011 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "32827642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32827642", "title": "Longlife", "text": "Longlife\n\nLonglife (Longlife - Sustainable, energy efficient residential buildings in regard to European requirements and innovative technologies in the Baltic Sea Region) is a transnational project in the Baltic Region. It is funded through the EU programme Baltic Sea Region 2007-2013. Longlife contributes to the EU Strategy 2020 framework to reduce energy consumption.\n\nLonglife is developing standards for sustainable, energy efficient building in the Baltic Region and harmonizing the different construction technologies. This includes standards for sustainability, procedures for planning, building permits and tendering and funding in the Baltic Region. One of the goals is to make the Baltic Region more competitive.\n\nIn the Longlife project partners from Denmark, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and Germany are working together. Lead Partner is the TU Berlin, Institute of Architecture, Chair of Design and Structure, Prof. Dr.-Ing. Klaus Rückert. The developed standards and benchmarks are minimum requirements for sustainable buildings. Considerations are made concerning the ecological, economic and social aspects in the life cycle of a building. The design process is supported by the Longlife prototype, a catalogue of materials, components and key technologies for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources that meet the minimum requirements of Longlife, e.g. the final energy consumption of 40kWh / m² year.\n\nLonglife will demonstrate with Pilot projects that an extra effort in the integrated planning in order to minimize energy consumption and operating costs of a building life cycle is worthwhile.\n\nAt the end of the planning process, the building will be certified with the Longlife Performance Pass. This performance pass includes measurable data from the building in the fields of energy, costs and qualities. The practical solutions and innovative technologies are also applicable to other building types. Together with seven other projects Longlife will develop in 2012 a compendium which shows the potential and synergy of an energy cluster.\n\nAs a continuation of the project's work, the Longlife Institute e.V. was founded in September 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "25951746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25951746", "title": "Lüders affair", "text": "Lüders affair\n\nThe Luders Affair was a legal and diplomatic embarrassment to the Haitian government in 1897.\n\nOn September 21, 1897, Haitian police were looking for one Dorléus Présumé, who was accused of theft. They found him washing a coach in front of the \"Écuries Centrales\" (Central Stables) of Port-au-Prince, whose proprietor was Emile Lüders. Présumé resisted arrest, and Lüders, who had heard the noise, came to his defence.\n\nOn September 21, 1897, both Présumé and Lüders were sentenced by the Police Tribunal to one month's imprisonment for assault and battery. They appealed to the Correctional Tribunal, but this time they were also charged with using force to resist arrest. The original sentence was annulled and on October 14 they were sentenced to one year's imprisonment.\n\nLüders had previously been sentenced to six days imprisonment in 1894 for battery on a soldier. Witnesses against Lüders included British, French, and German witnesses. Nonetheless, on October 17 the German Chargé d'affaires, Count Schwerin, demanded the immediate release of Lüders (who had been born in Haiti but had a German father), as well as the removal of the judges and dismissal of the police officers involved in the case. Responding to intervention by the American representative, W.F. Powell, President Sam pardoned Lüders, who left the country on October 22.\n\nOn December 6, 1897, two German warships, the SMS \"Charlotte\" and the SMS \"Stein\", anchored in the harbor of Port-au-Prince, without the usual salute, and Captain Thiele of the \"Charlotte\" notified the Haitian government of an ultimatum whose conditions were humiliating in both form and substance: compensation in the amount of twenty thousand dollars for Luders, a promise that Luders could return to Haiti, a letter of apology to the German government, a 21-gun salute to the German flag, a reception for the German Chargé d'affaires, and four hours to decide. The President was required to raise a white flag on the presidential palace in token of surrender.\n\nThe Haitian government yielded, to the distress of its people, who had been prepared to defend their national honor. They were horrified to see the white flag, despite the protestations of the French ambassador, Théodore Meyer, that it was merely a parliamentary standard.\n\nSolon Ménos, Foreign Minister of Haiti at the time, subsequently fought a duel with a member of Lüders' family and was the subject of an action for defamation by two German officials requiring him to append a statement to the end of his book on the Lüders affair.\n\nThe Luders affair was extremely embarrassing for president Sam, and undermined his authority in Haiti, leading to his resignation in 1902.\n"}
{"id": "38916348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38916348", "title": "Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure", "text": "Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure\n\nThe Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure (MIP) was introduced by the European Union in autumn 2011 amidst the economic and financial crisis, and entered into force on 13 December 2011. It is designed to prevent and correct risky macroeconomic developments, such as high current account deficits, unsustainable external indebtedness and housing bubbles. The MIP is part of the EU's so-called 'six-pack' legislation, which aims to reinforce the monitoring and surveillance of macroeconomic policies in the EU and the euro area.\n\nThe first step of each yearly round of the MIP is the Alert Mechanism Report prepared by the European Commission. Based on a scoreboard of indicators, which are not interpreted mechanically, the Commission identifies the countries and issues which require In-Depth Reviews for further economic analysis. The Commission also takes into account relevant data beyond the scope of the scoreboard, when selecting countries for in-depth reviews. Based on these in-depth reviews, the Commission determines if imbalances exist; what the nature of the imbalances is; and judges whether they are persistent, aggravating or unwinding. Depending on the severity of the imbalances the Commission proposes a policy recommendation under either the 'preventive arm' or the 'corrective arm' of the MIP.\n\nIn the case of countries where an imbalance exists, but is not of an excessive nature, the follow-up to the in-depth review will take place under the preventive arm of the MIP. It is embedded in the European Semester (the EU's yearly cycle of economic policy coordination). This means that the MIP-relevant recommendation will be integrated in the package of proposals for Country-Specific Recommendations, which aim to provide guidance for national policy making.\n\nIf the Commission in their In-Depth Review find existence of an excessive imbalance, this might subsequently trigger an Excessive Imbalance Procedure (EIP) under the corrective arm of the MIP. The Commission's decision will be taken in the context of the additional analysis of the \"National Reform Programme\" and \"Stability/Convergence Programme\" submitted in April. If the Commission on this basis find the excessive imbalance soon will be mitigated by implementation of effective counter measures, they will refrain to open up an EIP, but the state will still be subject to \"a specific and close monitoring of policy implementation\" by a separate status report issued a half year later, which will conduct a real-time assessment of implemented action and establish peer pressure towards ensuring the promised reform action is taken by the Member State in concern. On the other hand, if an excessive imbalance that jeopardises the proper functioning of the Economic and Monetary Union is still found to exist by the end of the European Semester, not being properly rectified by the submitted programmes, the Commission will then (upon the same time of its publication of Country-Specific Recommendations) forward a special procedural recommendation to the Council for opening up an EIP. If the Council at its subsequent meeting decides to follow the Commission's recommendation to open up an EIP, the member state concerned will then have to submit a \"corrective action plan\" to the Council and Commission within a short notice, featuring a detailed roadmap for all specific policy actions with specific deadlines for implementing adequate measures satisfying the received Council recommendation. Surveillance will subsequently be stepped up by the Commission through regular progress reports drawn up by the member state concerned. The enforcement of the Excessive Imbalance Procedure is backed by sanctions for euro area member states (up to 0.1% of GDP), if they repeatedly fail to take agreed action or to deliver a sufficient \"corrective action plan\".\n\nSince the entry into force of the EIP regulation on 13 December 2011, the Council however never has launched any Excessive Imbalance Procedure. Two main reasons exist for no launched EIP's. The first reason, was that all of the seven states identified to have excessive imbalance through 2013-15, succeeded to present sufficient counter measures when submitting their next year reform programme. The second reason, was that the most fragile and imbalanced \"Programme countries\" at the height of their imbalances received macroeconomic financial support from EFSM/EFSF/ESM/IMF or the EU Balance of Payments Programme, and thus were not covered at all by the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure and the Excessive Imbalance Procedure (instead being tightly monitored by their macroeconomic financial assistance programme). In 2013 the list of \"Programme countries\" included: Cyprus, Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Romania. In comparison, Spain was not considered to be a \"Programme country\" in 2013, due to only receiving financial assistance for bank recapitalizations and not any macroeconomic financial assistance.\n\nThe Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure was triggered the first time with the publication of the Alert Mechanism Report in February 2012. Based on the analysis in the report, the European Commission carried out in-depth reviews for twelve EU member states. The countries included were: Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, Hungary, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. The analysis confirmed that these EU member states faced macroeconomic imbalances of different nature. But none were considered excessive, therefore no Excessive Imbalance Procedure was launched. The 'preventive arm' of the MIP was however activated, with the recommended policy responses to the imbalances being integrated in the set of Country-Specific Recommendations addressed to member states under the European Semester. These recommendations were endorsed by the European Council in June and subsequently adopted by the Council of Ministers in July 2012.\n\nOn 28 November 2012 the second Alert Mechanism Report was published. Based on the report, the Commission decided to review the progress in all of the twelve member states initially reviewed in 2012. They were therefore all selected again for an In-Depth Review. In addition, the Commission also started in-depth reviews for Malta and the Netherlands. On 10 April 2013, the Commission published the in-depth reviews and concluded that excessive imbalances exist in Spain and Slovenia. At its meeting on 14 May 2013, the Council of the European Union however stated that the European Commission should first review the national reform programmes of these countries, and on this basis it would then be assessed whether additional policy measures were necessary. The Slovenian Prime Minister stated on 23 May:\n\"We have the feeling the Commission believes submitting us to this [Excessive Imbalance] procedure will be a help to our country. This is not the case, in my estimate, and I believe it would be much better that Slovenia can on its own without any supervision resolve its problems.\" On 29 May 2013, after the national reform programmes of Spain and Slovenia had been reviewed, the Commission found those programmes to be sufficient; and thus refrained from launching an Excessive Imbalance Procedure towards Spain and Slovenia.\n\nIn the third Alert Mechanism Report published in November 2013, the Commission announced a new round of in-depth reviews for the countries already under scrutiny, but widened these reviews to Germany, Croatia, and Luxembourg, as well as to Ireland immediately after exit from its assistance programme. In March 2014, the Commission concluded that it found no imbalances in Denmark, Malta and Luxembourg, while the remaining countries were experiencing imbalances. Imbalances in Spain were not considered excessive any more. Imbalances in Italy, Croatia, and Slovenia were however experienced as excessive, with decisions to be taken in June 2014 on subsequent steps under the MIP - meaning those three countries are in risk of facing the opening up of EIP's. The joint decision by the Commission and Council whether or not to open up EIP's, will be taken in conjunction with the publication of the Country-Specific Recommendations in the context of the European Semester. On 2 June 2014 the Commission announced for the three countries identified with excessive imbalance: \"we have found that their national reform programmes appropriately address the main challenges we identified in March. That's why we are not proposing to launch the Excessive Imbalances Procedure for these three Member States. We will however monitor very closely the implementation of today’s detailed \"Country Specific Recommendations\", so as to provide the same support for the reform process in these countries, as we have over the past year for Spain and Slovenia, where progress has been very encouraging\".\n\nThese surveillance reports listed below, published at regular intervals by the European Commission for states found to be in \"Excessive Imbalance\", were crafted to check the country-specific progress of implementing mitigating reforms (as outlined by their annual \"National Reform Programme\" report). Each states period with extended surveillance, span from the time the Commission became aware of the existence of \"Excessive Imbalance\", until the point of time when their \"In-Depth Review\" report (published annually in February/March) finds the \"Excessive Imbalance\" no longer exist.\n\n\nThe scoreboard in the Alert Mechanism Report is currently made up of eleven indicators that monitor external imbalances and competitiveness, as well as internal imbalances. The indicators in the scoreboard ensure an early identification of imbalances that emerge over the short term in addition to those that arise due to structural and long-term trends. Since 2015, the scoreboard comprises 14 headline indicators for which indicative thresholds have been set. In addition the scoreboard comprises 28 auxiliary indicators without thresholds, that help to qualify its economic reading. \n\nThe design of the scoreboard is as follows:\n\nExternal imbalances and competitiveness\n\nInternal imbalances\n\nSocial Indicators\nThe Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure is based on two Regulations that are part of the 'six-pack' to improve economic governance in the EU. The first is Regulation 1176/2011, which lays out the details of the surveillance procedure and covers all EU member states. The second is Regulation 1174/2011, which focuses on enforcement, including the possibility of sanctions, and only applies to euro area member states.\n\nThe (ECOFIN) Council of the European Union, in its 2015 conclusions on EU statistics, recalled that the Macroeconomic Imbalances Procedure must rely upon sound and harmonised official statistics. The Council welcomed the close cooperation of the ESS and the ESCB, using existing fora, in ensuring the reliability of the statistics underlying the Macroeconomic Imbalances Procedure (MIP) and their comparability, welcomed the production of the first ESS-ESCB quality report on MIP statistics and encouraged the two statistical systems to give high priority to taking forward this programme.\n\nEuropean statistics is developed, produced and disseminated, within their respective spheres of competence, by \nAccording to the Memorandum of Understanding between the ESS and the ESCB, the two systems producing European statistics cooperate on strategic level in the European Statistical Forum (ESF) and the operational platform is the Committee on monetary, financial and balance of payments statistics (CMFB).\n\n"}
{"id": "13820566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13820566", "title": "Monism and dualism in international law", "text": "Monism and dualism in international law\n\nThe terms monism and dualism are used to describe two different theories of the relationship between international law and national law. Many states, perhaps most, are partly monist and partly dualist in their actual application of international law in their national systems.\n\nMonists accept that the internal and international legal systems form a unity. Both national legal rules and international rules that a state has accepted, for example by way of a treaty, determine whether actions are legal or illegal. In most so-called \"monist\" states, a distinction between international law in the form of treaties, and other international law, e.g., customary international law or jus cogens, is made; such states may thus be partly monist and partly dualist.\nState sovereignty as well.\nIn a pure monist state, international law does not need to be translated into national law. It is just incorporated and has effect automatically in national or domestic laws. The act of ratifying an international treaty immediately incorporates the law into national law; and customary international law is treated as part of national law as well. International law can be directly applied by a national judge, and can be directly invoked by citizens, just as if it were national law. A judge can declare a national rule invalid if it contradicts international rules because, in some states, the latter have priority. In other states, like in Germany, treaties have the same effect as legislation, and by the principle of \"Lex posterior derogat priori\" (\"Later law removes the earlier\"), only take precedence over national legislation enacted prior to their ratification. In its most pure form, monism dictates that national law that contradicts international law is null and void, even if it post-dates international law, and even if it is constitutional in nature.\nFrom a human rights point of view, for example, this has some advantages. Suppose a country has accepted a human rights treaty - the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights for instance - but some of its national laws limit the freedom of the press. A citizen of that country, who is being prosecuted by his state for violating this national law, can invoke the human rights treaty in a national courtroom and can ask the judge to apply this treaty and to decide that the national law is invalid. He or she does not have to wait for national law that translates international law. His or her government can, after all, be negligent or even unwilling to translate. The treaty was perhaps only accepted for political reasons, in order to please donor-countries for example.\n\"So when someone in The Netherlands feels his human rights are being violated he can go to a Dutch judge and the judge must apply the law of the Convention. He must apply international law even if it is not in conformity with Dutch law\".\n\nDualists emphasize the difference between national and international law, and require the translation of the latter into the former. Without this translation, international law does not exist as law. International law has to be national law as well, or it is no law at all. If a state accepts a treaty but does not adapt its national law in order to conform to the treaty or does not create a national law explicitly incorporating the treaty, then it violates international law. But one cannot claim that the treaty has become part of national law. Citizens cannot rely on it and judges cannot apply it. National laws that contradict it remain in force. According to dualists, national judges never apply international law, only international law that has been translated into national law.\n\"International law as such can confer no rights cognisable in the municipal courts. It is only insofar as the rules of international law are recognized as included in the rules of municipal law that they are allowed in municipal courts to give rise to rights and obligations\".\nThe supremacy of international law is a rule in dualist systems as it is in monist systems. Sir Hersch Lauterpacht pointed out the Court's determination to discourage the evasion of international obligations, and its repeated affirmation of:\n\nIf international law is not directly applicable, as is the case in dualist systems, then it must be translated into national law, and existing national law that contradicts international law must be \"translated away\". It must be modified or eliminated in order to conform to international law.\nAgain, from a human rights point of view, if a human rights treaty is accepted for purely political reasons, and states do not intend to fully translate it into national law or to take a monist view on international law, then the implementation of the treaty is very uncertain.\n\nIn dualist systems, international law must be translated into national law, and existing national law that contradicts international law must be \"translated away\". It must be modified or eliminated in order to conform to international law. However, the need for translation in dualist system causes a problem with regard to national laws voted after the act of translation. \nIn a monist system, a national law that is voted after an international law has been accepted and that contradicts the international law, becomes automatically null and void at the moment it is voted. The international rule continues to prevail. In a dualist system, however, the original international law has been translated into national law - if all went well - but this national law can then be overridden by another national law on the principle of \"lex posterior derogat legi priori\", the later law replaces the earlier one. This means that the country - willingly or unwillingly - violates international law. A dualist system requires continuous screening of all subsequent national law for possible incompatibility with earlier international law.\n\nIn some countries, such as the UK for instance, the dualist view is predominant. International law is only part of British national law once it is accepted in national law. A treaty\n\nIn other countries this distinction tends to be blurred. In the vast majority of democratic countries outside the Commonwealth, the legislature, or part of the legislature, participates in the process of ratification, so that ratification becomes a legislative act, and the treaty becomes effective in international law and in municipal law simultaneously. For instance, the Constitution of the United States provides that the President\n\nTreaties ratified in accordance with the Constitution automatically become part of the municipal law of the USA\".\n\nThe United States of America has a \"mixed\" monist-dualist system; international law applies directly in US courts in some instances but not others. US Constitution, art. VI, does indeed say that treaties are part of the Supreme Law of the Land, as suggested by the quote above; however, its Supreme Court, as late as the recent case of \"Medellín v. Texas\", has restated that some treaties are not \"self-executing.\" Such treaties must be implemented by statute before their provisions may be given effect by national and sub-national courts. Similarly with regard to customary international law, its Supreme Court stated, in the case of the Pacquete Habana (1900), that \"international law is part of our law.\" However, it also said that international law would not be applied if there is a controlling legislative, executive, or judicial act to the contrary...\n\nInternational law does not determine which point of view is to be preferred, monism or dualism. Every state decides for itself, according to its legal traditions. International law only requires that its rules are respected, and states are free to decide on the manner in which they want to respect these rules and make them binding on its citizens and agencies.\n\"[T]he transformation of international norms into domestic law is not necessary from the point of view of international law…the necessity of transformation is a question of national, not of international law\".\nBoth a monist state and a dualist state can comply with international law. All one can say is that a monist state is less at risk of violating international rules, because its judges can apply international law directly. Negligence or unwillingness to implement international law in national law can only pose a problem in dualist states. \nStates are free to choose the way in which they want to respect international law, but they are always accountable if they fail to adapt their national legal system in a way that they can respect international law. Either they adopt a constitution that implements a monist system so that international law can be applied directly and without transformation, or they do not. But then they have to translate all international law in national law. \nIn a monist state we rely only on the judges and not on the legislators, but judges can also make mistakes. If a judge in a monist states makes mistakes when applying international law, then the country violates international law just as much as a dualist country that, for one reason or another, does not allow its judges to apply international law directly and fails to translate or fails to translate correctly and effectively. One reason for preferring dualism is precisely the fear that national judges are not familiar with international law - a highly complex field of law - and hence are liable to make mistakes.\n\n"}
{"id": "14533093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14533093", "title": "Nonbusiness Energy Property Tax Credit", "text": "Nonbusiness Energy Property Tax Credit\n\nThe Nonbusiness energy property tax credit, in the United States, provides a nonrefundable personal tax credit for Federal income tax purposes, for making a home more energy efficient. (Unlike a deduction, which lowers taxable income, a tax credit reduces the actual tax paid, dollar-for-dollar.) This credit was added to the Internal Revenue Code by the Energy Policy Act of 2005.\n\nNonbusiness energy property provides a credit for buying qualified energy efficiency improvements and provides credits in various amounts for costs relating to residential energy property expenses.26 U.S.C. § 25C(a)(2). Labor costs for onsite preparation, assembly, or original installation are included as eligible expenses for certain items.\nklk\n\nFor an improvement to be eligible for the credit it must meet the following qualifications: (1) a component must meet or exceed the criteria established by the 2009 International Energy Conservation Code; (2) component is installed in or on a dwelling unit located in the United States and owned and used by the taxpayer as the taxpayer’s principal residence; (3) the original use of such component commences with the taxpayer and (4) such component reasonably can be expected to remain in use for at least 5 years. \n\nResidential energy property expenditures are eligible for the credit if the purchase: (1) is installed on or in connection with a dwelling unit located in the United States and owned by the taxpayer and used as his principal residence (section 121); (2) the item is originally placed in service by the taxpayer and (3) it is qualified energy property as defined by 26 U.S.C. § 25C(d)(2)(a) that meets certain performance and quality standards established by the code or by the Secretary.\n\nA tax credit of up to $500 is available to individuals for nonbusiness energy property, such as residential exterior doors and windows, insulation, heat pumps, furnaces, central air conditioners, and water heaters. \n\na. The credit varies depending on the type of improvement.\nb. There is a lifetime credit of $500.\nc. The improvements must be installed in the taxpayer's principal residence in the United States.\n\nItems must be placed in service before Jan. 1, 2018 to be eligible for the credit. \n\n"}
{"id": "26621218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26621218", "title": "PKNIC", "text": "PKNIC\n\nPKNIC is the .pk domain name registry in the Pakistan, it was started by a Pakistani American Ashar Nisar in June 1992. The company is operated as a self-supporting organization. PKNIC is managed and owned by an American-based company started by a Pakistani American. Up until July 2009, there were no .PK root servers inside Pakistan, numerous attempts were made in the past to bring .pk operations to Pakistan. A Pakistani Newspaper DAWN now reports that the Government, working through the PTA, has somehow managed to convince the owner of PKNIC to open an office in Lahore and deploy a mirrored root server (m-2.pknic.net.pk) in what once used to be his hometown.\n\n"}
{"id": "24697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24697", "title": "Product liability", "text": "Product liability\n\nProduct liability is the area of law in which manufacturers, distributors, suppliers, retailers, and others who make products available to the public are held responsible for the injuries those products cause. Although the word \"product\" has broad connotations, product liability as an area of law is traditionally limited to products in the form of tangible personal property.\n\nIn the United States, the majority of product liability laws are determined at the state level and vary widely from state to state. Each type of product liability claim requires proof of different elements in order to present a valid claim.\n\nOf the various U.S. states, California was the first to throw away the fiction of a warranty and to boldly assert the doctrine of strict liability in tort for defective products, in the Supreme Court of California's decision in \"Greenman v. Yuba Power Products\", 59 Cal. 2d 57 (1963) (in which the majority opinion was authored by then-Associate Justice Roger J. Traynor). The Greenman decision was highly influential on the development of product liability law in other states.\n\nIn \"Greenman\", Traynor cited to his own earlier concurring opinion in \"Escola v. Coca-Cola Bottling Co.\", 24 Cal. 2d 453, 462 (1944) (Traynor, J., concurring). In \"Escola\", now widely recognized as a landmark case in American law, Justice Traynor laid the foundation for \"Greenman\" with these words:\n\nEven if there is no negligence, however, public policy demands that responsibility be fixed wherever it will most effectively reduce the hazards to life and health inherent in defective products that reach the market. It is evident that the manufacturer can anticipate some hazards and guard against the recurrence of others, as the public cannot. Those who suffer injury from defective products are unprepared to meet its consequences. The cost of an injury and the loss of time or health may be an overwhelming misfortune to the person injured, and a needless one, for the risk of injury can be insured by the manufacturer and distributed among the public as a cost of doing business. It is to the public interest to discourage the marketing of products having defects that are a menace to the public. If such products nevertheless find their way into the market it is to the public interest to place the responsibility for whatever injury they may cause upon the manufacturer, who, even if he is not negligent in the manufacture of the product, is responsible for its reaching the market. However intermittently such injuries may occur and however haphazardly they may strike, the risk of their occurrence is a constant risk and a general one. Against such a risk there should be general and constant protection and the manufacturer is best situated to afford such protection.\n\nThe year after \"Greenman\", the Supreme Court of California proceeded to extend strict liability to \"all\" parties involved in the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of defective products (including retailers) and in 1969 made it clear that such defendants were liable not only to direct customers and users, but also to any innocent bystanders randomly injured by defective products.\n\nMany jurisdictions have been swayed by Justice Traynor's arguments on behalf of the strict liability rule in \"Escola\", \"Greenman\", and subsequent cases. In the 40 years after \"Greenman\", the highest courts of nearly all U.S. states and territories followed California's example in imposing strict liability on manufacturers, distributors, and retailers for defective products. In a landmark 1986 decision, the U.S. Supreme Court embraced strict liability for defective products by adopting it as part of federal admiralty law.\n\nAlthough the \"Greenman\" rule was adopted by many other states through Section 402A of the Restatement of Torts, Second (published in 1964 after \"Greenman\"), the Supreme Court of California refused to adopt Section 402A's \"unreasonably dangerous\" limitation upon strict liability in 1972. Thus, strict liability in California is truly strict, in that the plaintiff need not show that the defect was unreasonable or dangerous. On the other hand, in California, the defendant is allowed to introduce evidence in a strict products liability action that the plaintiff contributed to his or her own injuries.\n\nCalifornia's courts continue to follow the standard set forth in \"Greenman\". In 2002 the California Supreme Court held that strict liability for defective products applies to makers of component products that are installed into and sold as part of real property. However, strict liability is not limitless. In 2012, the Court held that manufacturers are liable under strict liability and negligence only for defects in their products, as distinguished from other products that could potentially be used in association with their products.\n\nSection 2 of the \"Restatement (Third) of Torts: Products Liability\" distinguishes between three major types of product liability claims:\n\n\nHowever, in most states, these are not legal claims in and of themselves, but are pleaded in terms of the theories mentioned above. For example, a plaintiff might plead negligent failure to warn or strict liability for defective design.\n\nIn the United States, the claims most commonly associated with product liability are negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, and various consumer protection claims.\n\nWarranties are statements by a manufacturer or seller concerning a product during a commercial transaction. Warranty claims commonly require privity between the injured party and the manufacturer or seller; in plain English, this means they must be dealing with each other directly. Breach of warranty-based product liability claims usually focus on one of three types:\nExpress warranty claims focus on express statements by the manufacturer or the seller concerning the product (e.g., \"This chainsaw is useful to cut turkeys\").\n\nThe various implied warranties cover those expectations common to all products (e.g., that a tool is not unreasonably dangerous when used for its proper purpose), unless specifically disclaimed by the manufacturer or the seller. Claims involving real estate may also be brought under a theory of implied warranty of habitability.\n\nA basic negligence claim consists of proof of\n\n\nAs demonstrated in cases such as \"Winterbottom v. Wright\", the scope of the duty of care was limited to those with whom one was in privity. Later cases like \"MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co.\" broadened the duty of care to all who could be foreseeably injured by one's conduct.\n\nOver time, negligence concepts have arisen to deal with certain specific situations, including negligence \"per se\" (using a manufacturer's violation of a law or regulation, in place of proof of a duty and a breach) and res ipsa loquitur (an inference of negligence under certain conditions).\n\nRather than focus on the behavior of the manufacturer (as in negligence), strict liability claims focus on the product itself. Under strict liability, the manufacturer is liable if the product is defective, even if the manufacturer was not negligent in making that product defective.\n\nThe difficulty with negligence is that it still requires the plaintiff to prove that the defendant's conduct fell below the relevant standard of care. However, if an entire industry tacitly settles on a somewhat careless standard of conduct (that is, as analyzed from the perspective of a layperson), then the plaintiff may not be able to recover even though he or she is severely injured, because although the defendant's conduct \"caused\" his or her injuries, such conduct was not negligent in the legal sense (if everyone within the trade would inevitably testify that the defendant's conduct conformed to that of a reasonable tradeperson in such circumstances). As a practical matter, with the increasing complexity of products, injuries, and medical care (which made many formerly fatal injuries survivable), it is quite a difficult and expensive task to find and retain good expert witnesses who can establish the standard of care, breach, and causation.\n\nTherefore, in the 1940s and 1950s, many American courts departed from the \"MacPherson\" standard and decided that it was too harsh to require seriously injured consumer plaintiffs to prove negligence claims against manufacturers or retailers. To avoid having to deny such plaintiffs any relief, these courts began to look for facts in their cases which they could characterize as an express or implied warranty from the manufacturer to the consumer. The \"res ipsa loquitur\" doctrine was also stretched to reduce the plaintiff's burden of proof. Over time, the resulting legal fictions became increasingly strained.\n\nIn addition to common law remedies, many states have enacted consumer protection statutes that provide specific remedies for a variety of product defects. Under the product liabiity \"economic loss rule\", strict liability is generally unavailable for products that damage only themselves. Statutory remedies may apply to defects that merely render the product unusable (and hence cause economic injury) but do not cause physical injury or damage to other property.\n\nThe best known examples of consumer protection laws for product defects are lemon laws, which provide protection to purchasers of defective new vehicles and, in a small number of states, used vehicles.\n\nIn most nations legislatures have taken the lead in imposing strict liability for defective products. The courts of several countries, including Canada and South Africa, have rejected attempts by lawyers to persuade them to follow California's \"Greenman\" holding.\n\nChina first enacted a Product Quality Law in October 1993 in an attempt to impose strict liability, but the law was badly drafted and was quite weak. After numerous product scandals throughout the 2000s, China finally enacted a much stronger Tort Liability Act in December 2009, followed by a Statute on the Choice of Substantive Law in Foreign-Related Civil Relationships in April 2011, which enables Chinese consumers injured by foreign-made products to request that Chinese courts apply the law of the defendant's place of business. While these two laws are still relatively ineffective against large Chinese manufacturers who are state-owned enterprises (as the defendant can simply have the product defect declared a state secret and then have the plaintiff prosecuted for revealing state secrets), they will enable Chinese consumers to seek some compensation from non-state companies as well as foreign manufacturers.\n\nIn Europe, a movement towards strict liability began with the Council of Europe Convention on Products Liability in regard to Personal Injury and Death (the Strasbourg Convention) in 1977. On July 25, 1985, the European Economic Community adopted the Product Liability Directive. In language similar to Traynor's, the Directive stated that \"liability without fault on the part of the producer is the sole means of adequately solving the problem, peculiar to our age of increasing technicality, of a fair apportionment of the risks inherent in modern technological production.\" However, the Directive also gave each member state the option of imposing a liability cap of 70 million euros per defect. The Directive only imposed strict liability upon manufacturers or importers, and deviated significantly from the U.S. model by refusing to impose strict liability on purely domestic distributors or retailers.\n\nThe legislatures of many other countries outside the EEC subsequently enacted strict liability regimes based on the European model (that is, generally applying only to manufacturers and importers), including Israel (March 1980, based on an early proposed draft of the Directive), Brazil (September 1990), Peru (November 1991), Australia (July 1992), Russia (February 1992), Switzerland (December 1992), Argentina (October 1993), Japan (June 1994), Taiwan (June 1994), Malaysia (August 1999), South Korea (January 2000), Thailand (December 2007), and South Africa (April 2009).\n\nAdvocates of strict liability laws argue that strict products liability causes manufacturers to internalize costs they would normally externalize. Strict liability thus requires manufacturers to evaluate the full costs of their products. In this way, strict liability provides a mechanism for ensuring that a product's absolute good outweighs its absolute harm.\n\nBetween two parties who are not negligent (manufacturer and consumer), one will necessarily shoulder the costs of product defects. Proponents say it is preferable to place the economic costs on the manufacturer because it can better absorb them and pass them on to other consumers. The manufacturer thus becomes a de facto insurer against its defective products, with premiums built into the product's price.\n\nStrict liability also seeks to diminish the impact of information asymmetry between manufacturers and consumers. Manufacturers have better knowledge of their own products' dangers than do consumers. Therefore, manufacturers properly bear the burden of finding, correcting, and warning consumers of those dangers.\n\nStrict liability reduces litigation costs, because a plaintiff need only prove causation, not imprudence. Where causation is easy to establish, parties to a strict liability suit will most likely settle, because only damages are in dispute.\n\nCritics charge that strict liability creates risk of moral hazard. They claim that strict liability causes consumers to under invest in care even when they are the least-cost avoiders. This, they say, results in a lower aggregate level of care than under a negligence standard. Proponents counter that people have enough natural incentive to avoid inflicting serious harm on themselves to mitigate this concern.\n\nCritics charge that the requiring manufacturers to internalize costs they would otherwise externalize increases the price of goods. Critics claim that in elastic, price-sensitive markets, price increases cause some consumers to seek substitutes for that product. As a result, they say, manufacturers may not produce the socially optimal level of goods. Proponents respond that these consumer opt outs reflect a product whose absolute harm outweighs its absolute value; products that do more harm than good ought not be produced.\n\nIn the law and economics literature, there is a debate about whether liability and regulation are substitutes or complements. If they are substitutes, then either liability or regulation should be used. If they are complements, then the joint use of liability and regulation is optimal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "118382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=118382", "title": "Publican", "text": "Publican\n\nIn antiquity, publicans (Greek τελώνης \"telōnēs\" (singular); Latin \"publicanus\" (singular); \"publicani\" (plural)) were public contractors, in which role they often supplied the Roman legions and military, managed the collection of port duties, and oversaw public building projects. In addition, they served as tax collectors for the Republic (and later the Roman Empire), bidding on contracts (from the Senate in Rome) for the collection of various types of taxes. Importantly, this role as tax collectors was not emphasized until late into the history of the Republic (c. 1st century BC). The publicans were usually of the class of equites.\n\nThe legacy of the Roman Republic continues to provide inspiration for the operation of modern governments, as the Romans first witnessed the challenges associated with the management of large territorial areas and populations in a more or less sustainable fashion. The era of the Roman Republic began with the overthrowing of the kings around 500 BC and ended with the beginning of the imperial rule of the Caesars in 27 BC. During the republican era, civil service, which was the size of modern middle-sized city governments, dealt with organising public policy for nearly thirty million people. The solution for the day-to-day operation of public administration was the extensive use of private contracting in the implementation of public policies. The earliest accounts of contracting describe contracts for feeding sacred hens, which were honoured for warning the citizens of Rome of approaching enemies, on the hill of Capitolium in Rome in 390 BC.\n\nPrivate organisations, societas publicanorum, and their managers, the publicani, took care of most public duties, such as constructing public buildings, supplying equipment for the army, operating mines, and, most importantly, collecting taxes. The societies participated in tenders for public duties. Those who offered the lowest price won construction deals, and those who guaranteed the highest amount of collected taxes for the senate succeeded in tax collection tenders. The management structure of the societies represented a core-periphery structure with a relatively small permanent management structure and a large short-term operative work-force, which could be adjusted according to successes and losses in consecutive competitive tenders. The societas publicanorum were probably the first type of limited liability shareholder-owned companies. This arrangement makes Societas Publicanorum one of the first examples of hybrid organization or public-private partnership. A legal structure for limiting liability in purely private business activity did not exist at the time. To limit personal liability, which could lead to slavery and the confiscation of all personal property, early entrepreneurs invented the practice of common slave ownership, in which a jointly owned slave served as chief executive officer of the enterprise. As slaves were ‘things’ responsible for only their own cost, they liberated the owners of their personal liabilities.\n\nAt the height of the Republic's era of provincial expansion (roughly the 1st and 2nd centuries BC until the end of the Republic) the Roman tax farming system was very profitable for the publicani. The right to collect taxes for a particular region would be auctioned every few years for a value that (in theory) approximated the tax available for collection in that region. The payment to Rome was treated as a loan and the publicani would receive interest on their payment at the end of the collection period. In addition, any excess (over their bid) tax collected would be pure profit for the publicani. The principal risk to the publicani was that the tax collected would be less than the sum bid.\n\nIn the Roman Republic, the distinction between politics and business was clear-cut. Senators could not take part in the management of the societas publicanorum or other business activities, but they could be shareholders of the companies. Likewise, private contractors could not enter seats in the senate. Consequently, the publicani, as the most influential group in the order of the knights, became part of the power-balancing mechanism of ancient Rome. Tax farming deals in newly acquired eastern provinces in Asia Minor proved to be a highly lucrative source of income for the companies, which placed publicani in competitive positions with the appointed local governors of the provinces. Also, the exclusion of the publicani from the senate opened up positions for them in the special courts, allowing them to weigh the limits and practices of government power.\n\nThe actions of the publicani were fiercely criticised. They were accused of insurance fraud in delivering goods during the Punic wars, of excessive greed when collecting taxes in the provinces, of exceptionally crude conduct towards slave labour working in the mines, and of fraudulent practices in trying to get rid of unprofitable public contracts. However, surviving literary sources are mainly based on accounts of senators, who were in a competitive position with the publicani. Still, the overall operation of the private contractors seems to have supplied satisfactory results for the management of the republic. The degradation of the role of private contracting coincided with the beginning of the rule of the emperors, during which the oligarchic power of the senate had to give way for the autocratic rule of the Caesars, and a more centralised public civil service system replaced private contractors in implementing the most important parts of public policy. However, the order of the knights, to which the publicani belonged, formed the backbone of the population from which civil servants were recruited. Throughout history, the publicani, or, more precisely, their local henchmen, were probably best known from their minor local tax collecting duties in Roman provinces during the imperial era \n\nBy New Testament times, the provincial people came to see the publicans chiefly as tax collectors. It is in this sense that the term is used in Jesus' parable of the Pharisee and the Publican. However, their role as public contractors, especially as regards building projects, was still significant. \n\nWith the rise of a much larger Imperial bureaucracy, this task of the publicans, as well as their overall importance, declined precipitously. Evidence for the existence of publicans extends as far back as the 3rd century BC, although it is generally assumed that they existed at still earlier times in Roman history. Knowledge of a tentative \"terminus post quem\" is taken from the histories of the 1st century AD Imperial historian Livy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "348010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348010", "title": "Redshirts (Italy)", "text": "Redshirts (Italy)\n\nRedshirts or Red coats is the name given to the volunteers who followed Giuseppe Garibaldi in southern Italy during his expedition of the Thousand to southern Italy, but sometimes extended to other campaigns of his. The name derived from the color of their shirts or loose fitting blouses (complete uniforms were beyond the finances of the Italian patriots).\n\nThe red shirts were started by Giuseppe Garibaldi. During his years of exile, Garibaldi was involved in a military action in Uruguay, where, in 1843, he originally used red shirts from a stock destined for slaughterhouse workers in Buenos Aires. Later, he spent time in private retirement in New York City. Both places have been claimed as the birthplace of the Garibaldian red shirt.\n\nThe formation of his force of volunteers in Uruguay, his mastery of the techniques of guerilla warfare, his opposition to the Emperor of Brazil and Argentine territorial ambitions (perceived by liberals as also imperialist), and his victories in the battles of Cerro and Sant'Antonio in 1846 that assured the independence of Uruguay, made Garibaldi and his followers heroes in Italy and Europe. Garibaldi was later hailed as the \"Gran Chico Fornido\" on the basis of these exploits.\n\nIn Uruguay, calling on the Italians of Montevideo, Garibaldi formed the Italian Legion in 1843. In later years, it was claimed that in Uruguay the legion first sported the red shirts associated with Garibaldi's \"Thousand\", which were said to have been obtained from a factory in Montevideo which had intended to export them to the slaughter houses of Argentina. Red shirts sported by Argentinian butchers in the 1840s are not otherwise documented, however, and the famous \"camicie rosse\" did not appear during Garibaldi's efforts in Rome in 1849–50.\n\nLater, after the failure of the campaign for Rome, Garibaldi spent a few years, circa 1850–53, with the Italian patriot and inventor, Antonio Meucci, in a modest gothic frame house (now designated a New York City Landmark), on Staten Island, New York City, before sailing for Italy in 1853. There is a Garibaldi-Meucci museum on Staten Island.\n\nIn New York, during the pre-Civil War era, rival companies of volunteer firemen were the great working-class heroes of the city. Their courage, their civic spirit, and the lively comradeship they demonstrated inspired fanatic followers throughout New York, the original \"fire buffs\".\n\nVolunteer fire companies varied in the completeness and details of their uniforms, but they all wore the red flannel shirt. When Garibaldi returned to Italy after his New York stay, the red shirts made their first appearance among his followers.\n\nGaribaldi remained a local hero among European immigrants back in New York. The \"Garibaldi Guard\" (39th New York State Volunteers) fought in the American Civil War, 1861–65. As part of their uniform, they wore red woolen \"Garibaldi Shirts\" at least, all enlisted men did. The \"New York Tribune\" sized them up:\nA woman's fashion, the Garibaldi shirt, was begun in 1860 by the Empress Eugénie of France, and the blousy style remained popular for some years, eventually turning into the Victorian shirt waist and modern woman's blouse.\n\nGiuseppe Garibaldi's son, Ricciotti Garibaldi, later led redshirt volunteer troops that fought with the Greek Army in the Greco-Turkish War of 1897 and the First Balkan War of 1912–13.\n\nThe Redshirts gave inspiration to Mussolini, to form the Fascist blackshirts units and, from there, to Hitler's brownshirted Sturmabteilung (SA) units, as well as, the quasi-fascist Irish Blueshirts, under Eoin O'Duffy. However, whilst being vaguely nationalistic in tone, Garibaldi and his men are not widely considered as having been protofascist. Nottingham Forest FC now proudly wear the Garibaldi red shirts since their inception in 1865.\n"}
{"id": "15346380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15346380", "title": "Stanak", "text": "Stanak\n\nStanak is the most common name used to refer to the assembly of nobility in medieval Bosnia. The assembly was also known as the Rusag (from the Hungarian word \"orszag\", meaning \"country\"), Zbor, Sva Bosna (meaning \"Whole of Bosnia\") or just Bosna, with the officials of the Republic of Ragusa employing several Latin terms as well. The term \"stanak\" is first attested in the charter of Tvrtko I in 1354.\n\nThe right to take part in the sessions of the Stanak was enjoyed by every Bosnian \"knez\", from magnates to petty lords, collectively known as \"vlastela\", but the ultimate authority belonged to the highest nobility. The Stanak was convoked when required, usually by the ruler, who presided over it and led its sessions. If male, his wife was allowed to attend, but his sons were not. The Bosnian Church clergy, not belonging to the \"vlastela\", were also barred, but influenced decision-making in the Stanak through the great lords associated with it. The magnates of the country convoked the Stanak themselves when the country experienced greater domestic issues, such as succession crisis or deposition of the ruler. It normally took place wherever the monarch held court: in Mile, Milodraž, Bobovac, Kraljeva Sutjeska and Jajce.\n\nThe Stanak enjoyed great power and authority; it deliberated on matters such as election of the new king or queen and coronation, foreign policy, sale or cession of territory, contracting and signing treaties with neighbouring countries, and military issues. Charters issued by monarchs reflected the decisions made by the Stanak; as the royal power weakened, the Stanak's increased. Its influence peaked between the 1390s and the 1420s. The Serbian historian Sima Ćirković and most other Yugoslav scholars believed that the existence of the Stanak proved a unity and feeling of belonging to a Bosnian entity, while their American colleague John Van Antwerp Fine, Jr. argued that it only illustrated weakness of the monarch and decentralization of the state.\n"}
{"id": "35789185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35789185", "title": "Sumac Kawsay", "text": "Sumac Kawsay\n\nSumac Kawsay \"Buen Vivir\" (\"good living\") rooted in the cosmovisión (or worldview) of the Quechua peoples of the Andes, sumak kawsay – or buen vivir, to give it its Spanish name – describes a way of doing things that is community-centric, ecologically-balanced and culturally-sensitive. The concept is related to tradition of legal and political scholarship advocating legal standing for the natural environment. The rights approach is a break away from traditional environmental regulatory systems, which regard nature as property. Since 2000 animals, plants and other organisms have their rights to dignity recognised by the Constitution in Switzerland (art. 120), but the implications of this disposition are still not very clear. With the enactment of its 2008 Constitution, Ecuador became the first country in the world to codify the Rights of Nature and to inform a more clarified content to those rights. Articles 10 and 71–74 of the Ecuadorian Constitution recognize the inalienable rights of ecosystems to exist and flourish, gives people the authority to petition on the behalf of ecosystems, and requires the government to remedy violations of these rights.\n\nIn his famous work, \"Should Trees Have Standing?\", Christopher Stone presented the case for conferring legal personality and rights on the environment. As Stone explained, as a rights-holder the natural object would “have a legally recognised worth and dignity in its own right, and not merely to serve as a means to benefit ‘us’”. To achieve rights-holder status, the natural object must satisfy three criteria: [First], that the thing can institute legal actions at its behest; second, that in determining the granting of legal relief, the court must take injury to it into account; and third, that relief must run to the benefit of it.\n\nIn his dissenting opinion in the landmark environmental law case, \"Sierra Club v. Morton\", 405 U.S. 727 (1972), Justice William O. Douglas argued that \"inanimate objects\" should have standing to sue in court: \nDouglas continued: \n\nIn 2012 New Zealand's Whanganui River was legally declared a person with standing (via guardians) to bring legal actions to protect its interests.\n\nThe Rights of Nature articles in Ecuador's constitution are part of a reaction to a combination of political, economic, and social phenomena. Ecuador's abusive past with the oil industry, most famously the class-action litigation against Chevron, and the failure of an extraction-based economy and neoliberal reforms to bring economic prosperity to the region has resulted in the election of a New Leftist regime led by President Rafael Correa, and sparked a demand for new approaches to development. In conjunction with this need, the principle of \"Buen Vivir\" or good living, which focuses on social, environmental and spiritual wealth versus material wealth, gained popularity among citizens and was incorporated into the new constitution.\n\nThe influence of indigenous groups, from whom the concept of \"Buen Vivir\" originates, in the forming of the constitutional ideals also facilitated the incorporation of the Rights of Nature as a basic tenet of their culture and conceptualization of \"Buen Vivir\".\n\nThe neoliberal development schemes in line with the \"Washington Consensus\" did not create prosperity for much of Ecuador's population, especially its indigenous populations, who make up about 40% of the country's population. The economy, based on the exportation of the country's raw materials, mainly oil, was also wreaking havoc on the nation's environment, an area with valuable biological and cultural diversity. The global economic crisis of 2008 revealed the vulnerabilities of an extractive economy, and led to a period of political turmoil in the country that made obviously the need for a new more inclusive government that embodied a post-oil, post-neoliberal development paradigm. In late 2006, the election of leftist Rafael Correa, who ran on an anti-neoliberal platform, showed the emergence of a new political era for Ecuador.\n\n\"Buen Vivir\" (\"good living\") emerged as a response to the traditional strategies for development and their negative environmental, social, or economic effects. \"Buen Vivir\" is an alternative concept of development that focuses on the attainment of the \"good life\" in a broad sense, only attainable within a community; a community that includes Nature. A popular approach to \"Buen Vivir\" is the Ecuadorian concept of \"sumak kawsay\", meaning a full life in kichwa. Part of this concept also emphasizes living in harmony with other people and nature. \"Buen Vivir\" has gained new popularity, spreading throughout parts of South America and evolving as a multicultural concept. Social consensus led to the inclusion of \"Buen Vivir\" in Ecuador's new constitution, supported as an alternative to neoliberal development. The constitution outlines \"Buen Vivir\" as a set of rights, one of which is the rights of nature. In line with the assertion of these rights, \"Buen Vivir\" changes the relationship between nature and humans to a more bio-pluralistic view, eliminating the separation between nature and society.\n\nThe inclusion of \"Buen Vivir\" and Rights of Nature in the constitution was ushered in largely due to the increased influence of indigenous activist groups in the political realm. After several years of worsening economic and environmental conditions, uprisings from various indigenous communities, who found themselves receiving less support from the state, while simultaneously their land was being increasingly encroached upon by oil companies, brought attention to their concerns. After historically being excluded from the political process, indigenous groups, especially concerned about the worsening environmental devastation of the extraction business and global climate change, started social movements aimed at creating a new approach to development that would protect the environment and harmonize its relationship with people. CONAIE (National Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador), the largest federation of indigenous movements, encompassing 14 of the nation's indigenous groups, and other groups focused on social justice began lobbying for a new constitution that incorporated recognition of the nation's indigenous groups, their language, culture, history, and land rights, and inherently their concepts of \"sumak kawsay\" and \"Pachamama\" (English: \"Mother Nature\").\n\nPresident Rafael Correa included calling for a constitutional assembly in his 2006 campaign. On April 15, 2007, over 80% of Ecuadorians voted in favor of calling a new assembly, thanks in large part to the support of indigenous communities. Indigenous groups had been pressuring for a new, more inclusive constitution for years, and were therefore actively involved in the drafting process. Alberto Acosta, the elected Assembly President, pledged to make the assembly more inclusive and incorporate the concerns of the indigenous into the constitution. In the end, a few indigenous representatives were elected to the assembly. To create a constitution based on the principles of \"Buen Vivir\", the Constitutional Assembly, with the advice of the Pachamama Alliance, enlisted the help of the Community Environmental Legal Defense Fund (CELDF) to draft language for the new provisions of the constitution detailing the Rights of Nature. Indigenous groups also played a role in the drafting process. Fundación Pachamama, in conjunction with leaders in CONAIE, met with members of the assembly to present their ideas for the constitution and gain support. A national media campaign detailing the tenets of the new constitution and the Rights of Nature was also launched to inform and gain support from the public.\n\nOn April 10, 2008, with 91 votes out of 130, the Constitutional Assembly approved Article 10 for inclusion in the new constitution. On June 7, the language of Articles 71 through 74, compiling the Rights of Nature, were presented and debated on, before receiving approval for inclusion in the constitution.\nOn September 28, 2008, a mandatory referendum was held to vote on the new constitution, where the adoption of the constitution was approved by 65% of voters.\n\nArticle 10. Persons, communities, peoples, nations and communities are bearers of rights and shall enjoy the rights guaranteed to them in the Constitution and in international instruments.\nNature shall be the subject of those rights that the Constitution recognizes for it.\n\nArticle 71. Nature, or Pacha Mama, where life is reproduced and occurs, has the right to integral respect for its existence and for the maintenance and regeneration of its life cycles, structure, functions and evolutionary processes.\nAll persons, communities, peoples and nations can call upon public authorities to enforce the rights of nature. To enforce and interpret these rights, the principles set forth in the Constitution shall be observed, as appropriate.\nThe State shall give incentives to natural persons and legal entities and to communities to protect nature and to promote respect for all the elements comprising an ecosystem.\n\nArticle 72. Nature has the right to be restored. This restoration shall be apart from the obligation of the State and natural persons or legal entities to compensate individuals and communities that depend on affected natural systems.\nIn those cases of severe or permanent environmental impact, including those caused by the exploitation of nonrenewable natural resources, the State shall establish the most effective mechanisms to achieve the restoration and shall adopt adequate measures to eliminate or mitigate harmful environmental consequences.\n\nArticle 73. The State shall apply preventive and restrictive measures on activities that might lead to the extinction of species, the destruction of ecosystems and the permanent alteration of natural cycles.\nThe introduction of organisms and organic and inorganic material that might definitively alter the nation’s genetic assets is forbidden.\n\nArticle 74. Persons, communities, peoples, and nations shall have the right to benefit from the environment and the natural wealth enabling them to enjoy the good way of living.\nEnvironmental services shall not be subject to appropriation; their production, delivery, use and development shall be regulated by the State.\n\nThe Rights of Nature is significant as it is the first case where this concept has been evoked at the national level. The articles set out a rights-based system that recognizes Nature, or \"Pachamama\", as a right-bearing entity that holds value in itself, apart from human use. This differs from traditional systems that see nature as property, giving landowners the right to damage or destroy ecosystems that depend on their land. The rights-based approach spelled out in the Rights of Nature expands on previous laws for regulation and conservation by recognizing that nature has fundamental and inalienable rights as a valuable entity in and of itself. The system also assigns liability for damage to the environment and holds the government responsible for the reparation of any damage. Additionally, if an ecosystem's rights are violated, it gives people the authority to petition on behalf of the ecosystem to ensure that its interests are not subverted to the interests of individuals or corporations.\nThe inclusion of the Rights of Nature also makes the constitution more democratic and inclusive, as it reflects the indigenes' idea of Nature as a mother that must be respected and celebrated. This is the first constitution that has incorporated indigenous concepts of \"sumak kawsay\" and \"Pachamama\", as well as recognized the plurinationality of Ecuador. This has broad significance for the recognition of indigenous groups and their right to preserve their land and culture. The combination of human rights with the rights of nature will allow for more effective protection of indigenous communities.\nThe Rights of Nature also transforms the relationship between nature and humans by asserting that nature is not just an object. By putting ecosystems on an equal footing with humans, the conception of humans as masters or as separate from nature is dismissed. Instead, this system celebrates nature and recognizes that humans are a part of it.\nThe Rights of Nature are further incorporated in the updated National Plan for Good Living, which states guaranteeing the Rights of Nature and promoting a healthy and sustainable environment as one of its twelve objectives. Policies under the objective include aims to preserve and manage biodiversity, diversify the national energy matrix with renewable sources, prevent, control and mitigate environmental damage, promote adaptation to and mitigation of climate change, and incorporate environmental approach in all public policies.\n\nThe Rights of Nature has been applied to several legal disputes and considered in government development initiatives.\n\n\"Wheeler c. Director de la Procuraduria General Del Estado de Loja\" was the first case in history to vindicate the Rights of Nature. The lawsuit was filed against the local government near Rio Vilcabamba in March 2011, who were responsible for a road expansion project that dumped debris into the river, narrowing its width and thereby doubling its speed. The project was also done without the completion of an environmental impact assessment or consent of the local residents. The case was filed by two such residents, citing the violation of the Rights of Nature, rather than property rights, for the damage done to the river. The case was important because the court stated that the rights of nature would prevail over other constitutional rights if they were in conflict with each other, setting an important precedent. The proceedings also confirmed that the burden of proof to show there is no damage lies with the defendant. Though the plaintiffs were granted a victory in court, the enforcement of the ruling has been lacking, as the local government has been slow to comply with the mandated reparations.\n\nIn March 2011, right after the ruling on the \"Wheeler\" case, the government of Ecuador filed a case against illegal gold mining operations in northern Ecuador, in the remote districts San Lorenzo and Eloy Alfaro. The rights of nature were violated by the mining operations, which were argued to be polluting the nearby rivers. This case is different from the previous in that it was the government addressing the violation of the rights of nature. It was also swiftly enforced, as military operation to destroy the machinery used for illegal mining was ordered and implemented.\n\nThe Yasuni-Ishpingo, Tambococha, and Tiputini (ITT) Initiative, referring to the corridor of oil reserves within the Yasuni National Park, is the first post-oil development initiative that recognizes that the benefits gained from the Amazon are greater than the economic benefits from oil extraction. The aim of the initiative is therefore to protect the biodiversity of the area, which UNESCO has declared a biodiversity reserve, by keeping the oil reserves in the ground, in return for compensation from the international community for at least half of the projected benefit Ecuador would receive from the oil extraction (approximately $3.5 billion). These funds would be used to fund other economic initiatives to alleviate poverty and develop the renewable energy sector. The importance of keeping the oil in the ITT area in the ground has been argued as of international importance to mitigate the effects of global climate change by preventing CO emissions and the local environmental devastation the extraction would cause. The Rights of Nature and other articles of the new constitution also make the protection of the park a legal imperative, as the extraction would be a violation of nature's rights. Though there originally was some difficulty evoking a sense of international responsibility to fund the initiative, especially with the national constitution requiring this law already, eventually in August 2010 Ecuador came to an arrangement with the UNDP for funding of the initiative through the issue of Yasuní Guarantee Certificates, denoting the amount of CO emissions avoided and their monetary value, which can potentially be used in the European Union Emission Trading Scheme.\n\nThe adoption of the Rights of Nature by Ecuador has received praise internationally by many countries who see this as a revolutionary way to conceptualize the environment and a way for Ecuador to move beyond the extractive economy of its past. Initiatives to adopt the concept of ecosystem rights have been taken or are being taken in various parts of the world, including Bolivia, Turkey, Nepal, and various municipalities in the United States.\n\nCriticisms of the Rights of Nature have generally centered on the mechanisms of enforcement of the provision. One criticism is that though the constitution establishes stronger regulations for the environment, it also gives the state the power to relax these regulations if found to be in the national interest. Therefore, much of the enforcement of the ecosystem rights depends on the will of the government, or an active citizenry. Indigenous groups have also expressed dissatisfaction that the constitution does not give local communities veto power over projects affecting their land. Others also feel a major weakness of the constitution is that it does not require prior or informed consent by communities before the start of development projects, which can undermine their ability to uphold the rights of nature. There are also concerns that the Rights of Nature could negatively affect foreign direct investment since companies will not want to comply with the more stringent regulations. On the other hand, people are skeptical of the Correa administration for still approving projects by foreign extraction companies violating the Rights of Nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "6498031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6498031", "title": "Surrebuttal", "text": "Surrebuttal\n\nIn an adversarial process, for instance a court proceeding, a surrebuttal is a response to the opposing party's rebuttal; in essence it is a rebuttal to a rebuttal.\n"}
{"id": "31070646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31070646", "title": "Swift v. Zynga", "text": "Swift v. Zynga\n\nSwift v. Zynga is an ongoing class action lawsuit filed in 2009, based on allegedly deceptive ads that ran in Zynga games on Facebook. A motion by Zynga to dismiss the case was denied by the United States District Court for the Northern District of California in November 2010.\n\nZynga is a developer of popular online games such as FarmVille, Mafia Wars, Yoworld and ZyngaPoker. These games allow players to spend virtual currency to take in-game actions and purchase virtual goods. Currency is metered out through the game itself, and additional currency can be purchased directly, or earned by completing special offers with Zynga and its business partners.\n\nThe plaintiff, Rebecca Swift, alleges that she played Zynga games and participated in multiple special offers run by Zynga's partner Adknowledge. In April 2009 she allegedly provided her cell phone number as requested by one of these offers, in order to be texted a code redeemable for YoCash, in-game currency in Zynga's YoVille! game. She subsequently received four charges of $9.99 billed to her cell phone from April 16, 2009 onward, without her knowledge or consent.\n\nAdditionally, on June 14, 2009 Rebecca signed up for a second special offer, a \"risk-free Grean Tea Purity Trial.\" The offer promised YoCash in exchange for participation in the risk-free trial, and stipulated that the trial could be cancelled anytime within 15 days of sign-up. Rebecca provided her debit card number and was charged an initial $5.95 for shipping and handling. Ten days later she sent an email asking to cancel the subscription, after receiving a shipment of green tea pills and tea bags. On July 4th Rebecca received an email indicating she would be charged an additional $79.95, despite her request to cancel. She was unable to contact the sender by telephone, and on July 6th was billed for the $79.95 plus a foreign transaction fee. On July 20th, she was billed again, resulting in total charges of $176.56.\n\nRebecca Swift filed a putative class action on November 19, 2009, claiming Facebook, Zynga, and AdKnowledge profited from \"highly misleading\" ads. Outside experts initially voiced the opinion that both Facebook and Zynga would be immune to legal action under provisions of the Communications Decency Act (CDA). Swift withdrew her action against Facebook in January 2010, though court records showed that the case was dismissed without prejudice and could in theory be re-filed. A First Amended Complaint was filed by Swift on February 10th, 2010, which claimed violation of the Unfair Competition Law, violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act, and unjust enrichment.\n\nBoth Zynga and AdKnowledge separately moved to dismiss the case on the grounds that Swift’s claims are barred by the CDA, but the motion was denied by the United States District Court for the Northern District of California in a November 3rd, 2010 ruling.\n\nAdKnowledge separately claimed that Swift failed to sufficiently identify AdKnowledge's role in the alleged fraud. AdKnowledge also argued that Swift's unjust enrichment claim should be dismissed. Finally, AdKnowledge moved to strike Swift's class allegations. AdKnowledge's claim and both motions were denied.\n\nIn evaluating Zynga's motion to dismiss, the court looked to the Roommates.com ruling (521 F.3d at 1161-1162). Through the lens of that ruling, the court determined that Swift's allegations could, if proven, support the conclusion that Zynga was responsible for creating or developing the content at issue. Specifically, Swift asserts that the virtual currency offered in the ads is the most important \"content\" found within them, and that Zynga further contributed to their development by specifying the design, layout, and format of the offers.\n\nWhen evaluating AdKnowledge's immunity claim, the court found that it was unable to determine whether it is entitled to CDA immunity, an evaluation which it judged to be a fact-based inquiry.\n\nSeveral law blogs have remarked on the failure to dismiss for CDA immunity as a potentially far-reaching shift in the law, claiming that it marks a departure from standard case law and could require websites to take extra steps to ensure their immunity.\n\nZynga reacted to the broader \"scam ads\" controversy by removing all \"offer\" based advertising from its site in 2009. This action was taken after Swift experienced the allegedly fraudulent ads, but before the original complaint in Swift v. Zynga was filed. In January 2010, Zynga reinstated these offer-based promotions.\n"}
{"id": "30334805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30334805", "title": "Systemic development", "text": "Systemic development\n\nSystemic development is a process of thinking about development which uses a systems thinking approach to create a solution to a social, environmental, and economic stress which the world is suffering from.\n\nThe core approach of systemic development is a process for thinking holistically while addressing complex issues and progressing towards a mutual goal with high participation rates. The process encompasses comprehension of current activities and future needs from a holistic perspective. For success, it is essential that the process moves from an integrated assessment to a sustainable assessment. The perspective must consider the many facets of the current and proposed development including the economic, social, environmental, political and ecological aspects. The idea behind a systemic development approach can be applied to many disciplines, similar to sustainable development. Systemic development is practice rather than sustainability, which is an end state.\n\nGeneral Systems Theory (GST) laid the foundation to systemic thinking. Ludwig Von Bertalanffy was known as the founder of the original principles of GST. Prior to 1968, when GST was introduced in Bertalanffy’s book, \"General System Theory: Foundations, Development, Applications\", the traditional approach to development used linear thinking or cause-and-effect thinking. GST was influenced by many different types of theories such as “Chaos theory, complexity theory, catastrophe theory, cybernetics, fuzzy set theory, and learning matrices” In 1990, Peter Senge, author of \"The Fifth Discipline\", wove systemic thinking approach into development.\n\nThe integration of ontology, methodology, epistemology, and axiology has formed an outline for GST. Together, these concepts and philosophies contribute to the theory of systemic development.\n\nOntology is the most basic fundamental tool. In a systemic development approach, the first step is to define the boundaries, thresholds, and stakeholders. Understanding what is, is crucial to understand the layers of complexity of the development needs.\n\nMethodology in systemic development must consider all variables, values, and sustainability principles, and aim to ensure that no elements have been neglected. It is important to ensure completeness, comprehensiveness, and transparency of the assessment. Mutual feedback and interactions between stakeholders should be modeled and assessed using carefully designed specific methodologies.\n\nEpistemology stresses how dialogue and communication by the stakeholders are the key tools to systemic development. This is when the verification and confirmation of the facets of the development process are discovered. Insight from each stakeholder is important to enhance and broaden the perspective of all involved. It is essential to take these viewpoints into consideration because they influence the process, the trends, the drivers of change, and the interactions between the parts. It is during this phase that learning is accomplished.\n\nAxiologology emphasizes the ethical and aesthetic responsibility during the development process. It is important because the solution manifested by the systemic development process needs to represent the values of the represented stakeholders.\n\nTo successfully achieve development through a systems approach, holistic thinking is necessary. A holistic approach to a system thinks about each variable, the space between the variables and what defines the variable. “It’s the sum of the interaction of its parts” In this process each individual must learn from each other to understand the whole system in a multidimensional way to find a solution. To think about development with a systemic lens, one needs to be able to see the whole instead of parts and understand the relationship between the parts, the way the parts move, what drives the behavior of the parts, what influences the flow or direction, and to understand why there are no more or no fewer parts. The many factors that make up the whole can be a complex system.\n\nIncluding many diverse stakeholders helps each individual to grow their own perspective, gain an understanding of others and to increase their creativity. Systemic involvement must strive for a transdisciplinary approach instead of a multidisciplinary or interdisciplinary approach to achieve successful development. Transdisciplinary allows for the integration of methodologies and epistemologies through collaboration of the different stakeholders. Including more perspectives in the loop will increase the chance of a successful solution.\n\nThe foundation of systemic development, systems thinking, when applied, creates knowledge which leads to expanded knowledge, which leads to success. Dialog is an essential tool for sharing knowledge and translating it into action. Communication can provide feedback and insight about “system, culture, practices, and artifacts and about the objectives and values of the project sponsor, client, and other stakeholders.” Learning happens during the dialog process as each stakeholder comes to observe other stakeholder’s values and ideas about what successful development would encompass.\n\n\"The Fifth Element\", by Peter Senge, emphasizes the importance of learning to improve lives using systems thinking. Individuals who acquire information, knowledge, and skills from other stakeholders and the environment tend to experience a change in their own lives and livelihood. They themselves then become the agents of change by sharing their knowledge with others.\n\nA feedback loop, closed loop, or systems complex model is a tool to help cope with complexity and understand the system as a whole. The tool will help to visualize the direction, velocity, delay time, long term and short term effects, and to help see the dynamic process. Feedback is necessary to learn about each other, including objectives and values of stakeholders and officials. A systemic approach to development is change oriented. The approach must encourage humans to communicate through interpersonal interactions, address the values of each stakeholder, and take part in developing and understanding the complex loop.\n\nSystemic development is based on the principle that one must understand the complexity of the whole system to develop a solution. This can be accomplished by learning different elements in the system and applying them to their existing knowledge. We must learn about the past suggested solutions, the balance of the system, influx of the system, the challenges within the system, the best timing for each element, learning about uncertainty of cause-and-effect, the best leverage points in the system, the system does not work unless every piece is functioning at its prime, and there is no one individual at fault if everyone is working together.\n\nThe goal of systemic development is to have community participants shift from being reactors to viewing themselves “as active participants in shaping their reality [to move] from reacting to the present to creating the future”\n\nThe non-linear processes must coincide, be fluid and strive to benefit all parties involved.\n\n"}
{"id": "5422122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5422122", "title": "Treaty of Ayacucho", "text": "Treaty of Ayacucho\n\nThe Treaty of Ayacucho was an agreement between Brazil and Bolivia signed in 1867. It assigned the land of Acre (now a state in Brazil) to Bolivia in exchange for 102,400 square kilometers of territory further north then annexed to Amazonas. It lasted until 1899, when an expedition led by Luiz Gálvez Rodríguez de Aria set up the first republic of Acre.\n\nBrazil was pressured to sign the agreement due to a threat of Bolivia joining in the war between Paraguay and Brazil. However, despite Bolivian pressure demarcation was not started until the end of the 19th century.\n\nIn Acre profits in rubber drew thousands of Brazilians, largely immigrants from the poor northern coast of the country (deep semi desert of center-southern Ceara state). In 1889, the situation escalated when the Brazilians living in Acre decided to defy the authority of Bolivia. They wanted to create an independent territory, and request annexation from Brazil. Bolivia's response was to found the city of Puerto Alonso (today Porto Acre). Using military force, in October 1889 the Brazilians occupied and expelled the Bolivians.\n\nIn July 1899, with the help of the governor of the state of Amazonas, the Brazilian population proclaimed the Republic of Acre.\n\nBolivia then leased the region through the Treaty of Aramayo to The Bolivian Syndicate of New York in 1901. However, by August 1902, an insurrection of around two thousand Brazilian guerrillas began. They would finally defeat Bolivian force in 1903. José Plácido de Castro was proclaimed governor of the Independent Acre.\n\nFinally, it was superseded in 1903 by the Treaty of Petrópolis, which gave Acre to Brazil, in exchange for some concessions in Mato Grosso.\n"}
{"id": "7801734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7801734", "title": "Trial advocacy", "text": "Trial advocacy\n\nTrial advocacy is the branch of knowledge concerned with making attorneys and other advocates more effective in trial proceedings. Trial advocacy is taught in primary, secondary, and undergraduate schools (usually associated with a mock trial elective). It is taught as an essential trade skill for litigators in law schools and in continuing legal education programs.\n\nThe skills of trial advocacy can be broken into two categories: skills that accomplish individual tasks (tactical skills) such as selecting jurors, delivering opening statements and closing arguments, and examining witnesses, and those skills that integrate the individual actions to achieve greater effects and to drive unfolding events toward the advocate’s desired outcome (strategy) .\n\nMost law school trial advocacy courses focus on tactical skills, though some integrate basic methods of strategic planning. Some academics have expressed disfavor with advanced strategic techniques because of the imbalance they create, especially against attorneys who are unaware of them. Proponents of advanced strategic techniques argue that these methods are the only effective means to counter the already-existing imbalances in the system, as between indigent defendants and the state, and between working-class plaintiffs and well-resourced, wealthy corporations.\n\nLike most legal skills, trial advocacy evolved through the apprenticeship and practice of attorneys. Even after 1900 (when the education of attorneys shifted to law schools) most law schools offered little education in advocacy.\nIn 1969, in response to criticism within the judicial system that law schools were not properly preparing attorneys for trial practice, a group of lawyers and law professors combined to form the National Institute for Trial Advocacy (NITA). Since then, many law schools have added or improved their instruction in trial advocacy, and numerous Continuing Legal Education organizations have offered classes surveying the subject area, and on specific topics within the field. Currently nearly one dozen law schools in the United States offer Master of Law (LL.M.) degrees in trial advocacy.\nTrial advocacy originally focused on individual actions within the trial, proposing methods for improved selection of jurors, delivery of argument, and direct and cross examination. However, in the 1970s, NITA advanced the concepts of theme and theory as methods of integrating the various components into a cohesive whole. More recently, litigation strategy has blossomed with the importation of concepts from economic game theory, complexity theory, Gestalt psychology, and the application of maneuver warfare as a means not only of integrating the various actions within the trial into a comprehensive case, but also as a means of gaining a decisive advantage over opposing counsel.\n\nThe topics commonly encompassed within Trial Advocacy are:\n\nThe selection of jurors that will be receptive to the argument the attorney intends to make.\n\nPresenting a non-argumentative overview of what the jury will see, often in the context of the attorney’s theme, theory and story.\n\nEliciting evidence from one’s own witnesses through non-leading questions. Because studies have shown that people best remember the first and the most recent (last) information heard (methods referred to as primacy and recency), the preferred method is to start with an engaging and favorable topic, move through more mundane matters, and to finish on a strong, favorable point.\n\nWorking with witnesses offered by the opposing party who may be hostile or uncooperative.\n\nUsing argument to create within the jurors a perception of what they have seen and heard that influences them to find in favor of the attorney’s client.\n\nThe general principles that enable an advocate to make the jurors more receptive to his claims.\n\nIn mock trial, students take responsibility for the prosecution/plaintiff or defense case in a trial presented using fabricated evidence, and role-players as witnesses and faculty or volunteers as judge or jury. It evaluates the participants’ skills in argument, evidence handling, and examination of witnesses, but omits jury selection and strategic matters. Mock trial differs from moot court in that moot court practices appellate argument, and so involves no handling of witnesses or evidence, but rather is an exercise in legal research and oral advocacy.\n\nThe means of organizing a case into a clear and complete presentation.\n\nThe means of organizing the case to maximize the combined impact of every element, and to overwhelm or outmaneuver the opposing counsel while presenting a clear, decisive argument to the jury (or judge, in the case of bench trials).\n\nAdvanced strategic skills, based upon psychology and military maneuver philosophy, are generally learned outside the classroom, as few law schools teach them. In fact, academics have criticized advanced strategic techniques for tipping verdicts through means unrelated to the merits of the case. For example, these techniques may be used to cause an advocate unfamiliar with them to take actions that unwittingly undermine his client’s interests. There is particular concern regarding the use of advanced strategic techniques by prosecutors, who already wield the substantial power of the State against often poorly resourced defendants.\n\nThe counterargument is that strategy can correct already-existing imbalances in the justice system, such as when inexperienced advocates must face highly experienced ones, when small firms oppose large ones, and when poor clients must litigate their rights against wealthy ones. Under the current system, without a well-developed strategy, a small firm with a poor client stands almost no chance of success against a large firm with its greater resources, regardless of the merits of the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "17606679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17606679", "title": "UNASUR Constitutive Treaty", "text": "UNASUR Constitutive Treaty\n\nThe UNASUR Constitutive Treaty, officially the Constitutive Treaty of the Union of South American Nations, was signed on May 23, 2008 during the extraordinary summit of heads of state and government of the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) held in Brasília, Brazil. It officially established the Union of South American Nations, a intergovernmental continental union of twelve South American nations.\n\nThe Constitutive Treaty of the Union of South American Nations came into force on March 11, 2011, thirty days after the date of receipt of the ninth instrument of ratification.\n\nThe treaty consists of 27 relatively short sections, and is the constitution of the new union. It outlines its structure and organs, and assumes that additional documents fill in the details.\n\nThe treaty declares the establishment and objects of the Union (in §§ 1-3), its organs (§§ 4-10 and 17), juridical foundation (§§ 11-13 and 22-27), and financial foundation (§ 16). It regulates the acceptance of new associate or full members and the right of cessation from the union in §§ 19, 20, 24, and 26, and the rules for adopting amendments to the treaty in § 25. Finally, §§ 14, 15, 18, and 21 declare the intent to employ dialogue among the member states, with its citizens, with third parties, and as the means for conflict resolution.\n\nThe 12 original signatories of the document have presented documentation of ratification to the Ecuadorian government. Other Latin American and Caribbean states may be admitted as associated members. An associated member may apply for and be granted full membership, but only after having been associated for at least four years, and only after five years have elapsed since the treaty came into force. This implies that no new full members outside the original twelve can be admitted before March 11, 2016.\n\nA full or associated member state may unilaterally withdraw from the union. To do so, the state must deposit their cessation documentation in a similar manner as the ratification, and the cessation will take effect six months after the deposition. However, cessation of membership will not free states from any financial debts to the Union for unpaid membership fees or otherwise.\n\nAt the time the treaty came into force on March 11, 2011, it had been ratified by Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Peru, Suriname, Uruguay, and Venezuela. The two other original signatories, Brazil and Paraguay, had not yet completed the ratification process by that date. By December 14, 2011, when Colombia deposited its instruments of ratification of the Constitutive Treaty with the Government of the Republic of Ecuador, the process was complete.\n\nAny member state may suggest amendments to the constitutional treaty. In order to be adopted, an amendment must be approved by the Council of Heads of State and Government, and then ratified by at least nine member states.\n\nOn November 26, 2010, during the 2010 South American Summit, representatives introduced a democratic clause to the Constitutive Treaty of the Union of South American Nations. The amendment specifies measures to be taken against member-states whose political processes are not respected. The clause establishes sanctions, such as shutting down borders and the suspension of trade against the country that suffers an attempted coup.\n\nThe decision to include a democratic clause was made after the recent upheaval in Ecuador that briefly threatened the administration of President, Rafael Correa. The additional protocol was signed by all member-states of UNASUR.\n\nOn March 11, 2011, when the Constitutive Treaty entered into legal force, establishing the Union of South American Nations as an international legal personality, the Foreign Ministers of the UNASUR member states met at Ciudad Mitad del Mundo, Ecuador, to celebrate the event and lay the foundation stone of the UNASUR Secretariat headquarters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25192049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25192049", "title": "Vermont Law Review", "text": "Vermont Law Review\n\nThe Vermont Law Review is a law review edited and published by students at Vermont Law School. The journal primarily publishes scholarly articles and student notes. It is one of two journals published by the school, alongside the \"Vermont Journal of Environmental Law\". It was founded by Vermont State Superior Court Judge Mary Miles-Teachout in 1976.\n\nThe Law Review is published quarterly. It hosts an annual symposium, each focusing on discussion of a timely legal issue, often covering environmental or Vermont-specific law. \n\n\n"}
