{"id": "41833240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41833240", "title": "Alexandru Nicolau", "text": "Alexandru Nicolau\n\nAlexandru Nicolau (; January 1889 – September 27, 1937) was a Romanian lawyer, socialist and later communist activist. Active in the Romanian and French socialist movements before and during World War I, he left for Russia during the 1917 Revolutions. There, he became one of the organisers of Romanian volunteer detachments in support of the Soviets. Arrested shortly after returning to Romania in 1920, he left for Soviet Russia after a successful prison escape. During the later part of his life he held teaching positions at several Soviet universities, before falling victim to the Great Purge in 1937. His name was posthumously rehabilitated both in the Soviet Union and in his native Romania.\n\nNicolau was born in Bucharest in 1889. As a student at the Saint Sava High School, he befriended Constantin Titel Petrescu and Mihail Cruceanu, both of whom would later become known as socialist militants. After finishing his secondary education, Nicolau trained as a lawyer, receiving a degree from the local University, a PhD in Paris, before being admitted to the Bucharest Bar. His first contacts with the Romanian socialist movement, still in disarray during that period, came through his membership in the Bucharest's Study Circle of the Socialist Students between 1908 and 1909. Soon after he began writing for \"România Muncitoare\", the main socialist press venue. One of his first notable contributions was his correspondence from Italy, criticising the reformist stance of the local socialist party. In 1911, \"România Muncitoare\" published Nicolau's anti-militarist manifesto \"To the recruits\". Recalling the army's contribution in suppressing the 1907 Peasants' revolt, the brochure called on the new recruits to choose a different path and refuse to support the government crackdown on the demands of the workers and the peasant. As a result, in May 1912 he was put under trial before the Court of the Ilfov County, where he reaffirmed the ideas expressed in the manifesto. Defended by fellow socialists Mihail Gh. Bujor, Toma Dragu and Titel Petrescu, and by socialist sympathizer Constantin Mille, Nicolau was eventually acquitted by the jury. In June 1912, along with Constantin Dobrogeanu Gherea, Ecaterina Arbore and others, he represented the Bucharest Socialist Club at the Fifth Congress of the Social Democratic Party of Romania (PSDR), being elected a member in the committee of the party's publishing house. In order to escape harassment from the authorities, Nicolau chose to leave Romania for Paris, where he continued his law studies at the Sorbonne, and joined the French Section of the Workers' International.\n\nIn 1916, Romania joined World War I on the side of the Entente and imposed an immediate ban on the local socialist movement, which had adopted a militant pacifist stance. Nicolau reacted by publishing in Paris a study highly critical of the Romanian ruling classes, titled \"The Crime of the Romanian Oligarchy\". Returning to Romania later in the war, he was kept under constant surveillance by Siguranța, the secret police. Nicolau was present in Iaşi during the revolutionary agitation which emerged during the 1917 May Day celebrations and under the impression of the February Revolution. Along the other social-democrats, he supported the position of the PSD leader Christian Rakovsky, who believed the situation in Romania was not ripe for the overthrow of the monarchy.\nJoining Christian Rakovsky and Bujor, Nicolau left in June 1917 for Russia, where he entered the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (bolsheviks). He settled in Odessa and, along with Bujor, Ion Dic Dicescu, and Alter Zalic, he was one of the organisers and afterwards leaders of the \"Romanian Committee for Social-Democratic Action\" established in the city. Nicolau also became the editor of \"Lupta\" (\"The Struggle\"), which presented itself as the successor of \"România Muncitoare\" (renamed in 1914 to \"Lupta zilnică\", \"The Daily Struggle\"). After the October Revolution, the Romanian socialists in Odessa saluted the new developments. Becoming increasingly communist in outlook, they also began agitating for a revolution in their home country. Such views were publicly expressed by Nicolau during his speech at the 2nd Congress of Rumcherod. In order to help the Soviets secure power in Southern Russia, on December 28, 1917, the Committee established the \"Romanian Revolutionary Military Committee\", which counted Nicolau, Bujor, and Dicescu among its leaders. The Revolutionary Committee worked in close cooperation with the Rumcherod, which provided it with material support. During the following period, two Romanian volunteer battalions were established by recruiting Romanian soldiers in Bessarabia and the Russian Black Sea ports, as well as workers who had been evacuated to Southern Russia. Between January and March 1918, the volunteers participated along the local Red Guards in battles against the troops of the Ukrainian People's Republic, the regular Romanian Army which had occupied Bessarabia, as well as against the Central Powers armies advancing from the Northwest.\n\nThe occupation of Odessa by Austro-German troops in the aftermath of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk forced the volunteer battalions to retreat to Crimea and central Russia, with the members of the Action Committee either going underground or leaving for Russian areas still under Soviet control. In August 1918, Nicolau, Dicescu and the other former members of the Action Committee which had reached Moscow created the \"Romanian Communist Revolutionary Committee\". The new committee, proclaimed the official representative of the PSDR in Russia, established contacts with the socialists in Bucharest and initiated an outreach campaign amongst the Romanian POWs in Russia. In late 1918, the Committee joined another Romanian group, the radical agrarian \"Romanian Revolutionary Peasants' Party\", to form an unified \"Romanian Communist group\" of the Russian Communist Party (bolsheviks). Nicolau was elected the group's chairman, with another PSDR member, Ion Penţa, being elected secretary and representative to the Federation of Foreign Groups. Nicolau also began publishing regularly in \"Foaia ţăranului\", the former organ of the Revolutionary Peasants' Party. In 1919 the Publishing House of the Romanian Communist Groups in Soviet Russia published Nicolau's brochure \"The Socialist Revolution in Romania\". The pamphlet acknowledged the Bolshevik support for the Romanian communists, and called on Romanians to follow the revolutionary path taken by the Russian communists under the leadership of Lenin. During August 1919, as the Soviets regained Odessa, Nicolau was one of the editors of the short-lived newspaper \"Scânteea\".\n\nAlexandru Nicolau returned to Romania in 1920, however he was soon apprehended by the authorities, and imprisoned in Jilava along with a larger group of communists, including Alecu Constantinescu. The group made a successful bid for escape on the night of December 2, 1920, and, following a short stay in Bulgaria, most escapees made their way to Moscow. On March 31, 1931, Nicolau was sentenced in absentia to death by the Romanian authorities. In Soviet Russia, he joined the local group of Romanian communists, and participated as a non-voting delegate in the Third World Congress of the Communist International, held in Moscow in June 1921. Nicolau also joined the Romanian section of the Communist University of the National Minorities of the West, where he lectured on topics such as history and social sciences, and worked as a teacher for the Moscow Institute of Foreign Languages.\n\nNicolau was among the Romanian Communist refugees in Soviet Russia who in 1924 signed a memorandum calling for the creation of a Moldovan national territory inside the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, near the disputed border with Romania. Along with Dicescu, the main author of the document, Nicolau considered Moldovans to be Romanians, and saw the new polity primarily as a base for propaganda across the Dniester, in Bessarabia and Romania. Such views were however rejected by the Bessarabian Communists who, after gaining the support of the Ukrainian leadership, enforced a cultural policy emphasizing the distinctiveness of Moldovan identity in the newly created Moldovan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nArrested on August 14, 1937, during the Stalinist purges, Nicolau was sentenced to death on September 27, 1937 by the Military Collegium of the Supreme Court of the USSR on fabricated charges of \"espionage and involvement in counter-revolutionary terrorist organisations\". He was executed on the same day, and buried in the Donskoy Cemetery in Moscow.\n\nHe was posthumously rehabilitated on September 15, 1956, through a decision of the Soviet Supreme Court during the De-Stalinisation campaign. In a symbolic gesture, his name was also rehabilitated in Romania during the April 1968 Plenary Session of the Central Committee of the Romanian Communist Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "56204652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56204652", "title": "Anne Cummins (social worker)", "text": "Anne Cummins (social worker)\n\nAnne Emily Cummins (12 October 1869 – 8 February 1936) was an early British medical social worker who was later called the \"mother of almoners\".\n\nCummins was born in Reigate in 1869. She was educated at Kensington high school and first went to work as a governess. She briefly worked as a teacher before deciding that social work should be her career. She had a natural ability to understand and assist. She was taken on by the Charity Organization Society who sent her to train under Edith Mudd who was an early almoner. She trained and then worked at St. Thomas's Hospital in London. Cummins is creditted with inventing the role of a modern social worker attached to a hospital. Her first priorities were patients who had tuberculosis and those who were expectant mothers.\n\nIn collaboration with the Southwark Health Society she started regular visits for pregnant women. She would advise on health and cleanliness as well as advising on the care of babies. She encouraged mothers to feed their babies milk having observed three month old babies being given pickles and fried fish. Cummins wanted the families to be self reliant and she set up self help groups. In fact when free meals were offered for Lambeth mothers she opposed this as she felt that the meals might encourage families to rely on charity.\n\nAfter 1909, Stafford Northcote established a trust in the memory of Cicely Northcote. This money meant Cummins could offer a comprehensive service. She has been called the \"mother of almoners\".\n\nCummins died in Broughton. The British Association of Social Workers awards Anne Cummins scholarships.\n"}
{"id": "46847835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46847835", "title": "Archibald Steele", "text": "Archibald Steele\n\nArchibald Trojan Steele (25 June 1903 Toronto, Ontario - 26 February 1992 Sedona, Arizona) was an American foreign or war correspondent for United Press, the New York Times, the Chicago Daily News and, the New York Herald Tribune. He covered China, Southeast Asia, the Middle East, and Africa from the early 1930s until his retirement in 1960. He then published several books, and is known for filing reports of the Nanjing Massacre in 1937 that first informed the world of the activities of the Japanese Army.\n\nIn 1950 Steele was co-winner of a George Polk award, given by Long Island University, for reporting on China for \"The New York Herald Tribune\". In 1955 he won a Maria Moors Cabot medal, given by Columbia University, for articles in \"The Herald Tribune\" about a journey with his wife from Alaska to Chile. In 1966, he was named by Secretary of State Dean Rusk to a panel of nineteen experts to advise on US policy on China \n\nSteele recalled that \"When I returned from the Orient I would usually take refuge in Boise, Idaho, capital of the potato state. Usually the State Department didn't even know that I was in the country. I was never sought out when I returned from China.\" Steven W. Mosher's book, \"China Misperceived\" included Steele in his criticisms of the China Hands, the diplomats and journalists who were held responsible for the loss of China.\nIn response to these and other comments, the journalist Harrison Salisbury wrote in 1991 that Steele deserved \"a special place in the journalist's Hall of Fame.\" \n\nSteele was born to James Arthur and Clara (Trojan) Steele in Toronto, Ontario, Canada on June 25, 1903. He had six brothers and sisters. In 1915 the family moved to Salt Lake City, Utah, then Twin Falls, Idaho, before Boise, Idaho, where they stayed. Steele graduated from Stanford University in 1924, and then became a cub reporter for the Capital News in Boise. He moved to Downey, California, where he wrote for the \"Willows Journal\".\n\nIn the early years of the Depression, Steele owned \"The Downey Champion\", a small weekly newspaper in California, when the Japanese invaded Manchuria beginning September 18, 1931. He recalled later that \"Up to that moment I had had no interest whatever in China. My sole interest was in the orange crop around Downey, California, where I was working, and in trying to keep my head above water.\" Rather than remain and go slowly bankrupt, Steele turned the newspaper over to his business manager, gathered a small amount of cash and took a ship named \"Taiyo Maru\" for Shanghai. Steele knew little about China and had no prospects for a job, but arrived just before the Japanese attack on Shanghai in 1931, and soon was hired to cover the war.\n\nSteele later explained that \"one could get a very quick education\" in those days because \"Shanghai was an international city with its International Settlement and French Concession and a very large and lively Chinese population.\" He added that \"it might not all be accurate, but it would certainly teach you in a very short time to take a strong position on China.\" He found himself disagreeing with resident foreigners who asked \"What's wrong with China?\" When the Battle of Shanghai began in 1937, he could go back and forth across the battle lines and observe the Japanese in action and then talk to the commander of the Chinese forces, who put up a \"brilliant defense at a time when the Chinese were being generally maligned as very poor fighters.\"\n\nIn the fall of 1937, Steele was one of five American journalists who remained in Nanjing after it fell to the Japanese. Steele broke the news about the events that became known as the \"Rape of Nanking\" (the New York Times correspondent F. Tillman Durdin is sometimes mistakenly credited as being the first.) Steele and Durdin left for Shanghai on the \"Oahu\", an American naval vessel, and Steele bribed an American sailor to allow him to radio his dispatches. The Chicago Daily News ran Steele's article on December 15, 1937, while the New York Times story appeared three days later.\n\nA recent historian, Masahiro Yamamoto, wrote that although scholars have come to rely on the reports of these journalists less and less, \"judging from the records and documents available from other sources, one may conclude that despite some erroneous assumptions and sensationalism typical in media war coverage these two American journalists basically told almost every essential detail of the atrocities in Nanking.\" Steele saw panic and confusion among the Chinese defenders, who had been abandoned by their commanders, and reported that between 5,000 and 20,000 Chinese soldiers had been killed. Neither he nor Durdin mentioned the number of civilian victims, but Steele wrote that \"streets throughout the city were littered with bodies of civilians...\" (The worst of the civilian casualties happened after Steele and Durdin left on December 15).\n\nWhen the national government led by Chiang Kai-shek retreated to the wartime capital, Chongqing, Steele accompanied it. There he came to know Zhou Enlai, who was stationed in the city during the war as representative of the Chinese Communist Party. Steele was impressed with Zhou's power to manipulate correspondents' views and opinions. \"As a male,\" he told a conference of journalists and scholars in 1984, \"I would find it difficult to say that I was captivated by Chou, although I was certainly captivated by Kung P'eng (Gong Peng). But in discussing Chou I think we haven't really touched on the basic question of the extent to which people like Chou, and particularly Chou, manipulated the views of the correspondents in China and their coverage of Chinese events.\" He explained:\n\nHis other travels during the war included a 1938 visit to Yan'an, the Chinese Communist wartime headquarters, and a 1944 trip to Tibet for the \"Chicago Daily News\", where he met the Dalai Lama, who was then a young boy. Of all his travels and assignments, he late wrote, the trip to Tibet and meeting the Dalai Lama were the most exciting.\n\nAfter 1945, Steele was posted to Japan, where he reported on the Tokyo War Crimes Trials. He traveled widely in East and Southeast Asia, then covered Central and South America from August 1953 to May 1954. and undertook a jeep trip from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego with his wife from August 1954 to August 1955.\n\nHe retired in 1960 to Sedona, Arizona. In 1966, he was named by Secretary of State Dean Rusk to a panel of nineteen experts to advise on US policy on China In that year he published \"The American People and China\", a survey of US public opinion, and in 1977 \"Shanghai and Manchuria, 1932: Recollections of a War Correspondent\" (Center for Asian Studies, Arizona State University).\n\nSteele died of cancer at his home on February 26, 1992.\n\nAt his death Steele was editing the \"Chicago Daily News\" articles from his 1944 trip to Tibet. The book was privately published in 1993 as \"In the Kingdom of the Dalai Lama\", with a foreword by the Dalai Lama.\n\nHe and Esther Frances Johnson (1910-1980) were married January 16, 1933 in Tokyo, Japan. They had courted when they were in California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28230387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28230387", "title": "Aslambek Vadalov", "text": "Aslambek Vadalov\n\nAslambek Ilimsultanovich Vadalov (), also known by his nom de guerre \"Emir Aslambek\", is a Chechen rebel leader fighting in the North Caucasus. He was appointed the supreme leader of the Caucasus Emirate on 1 August 2010, though this was later retracted.\n\nAslambek Vadalov was born in 1972 and is a native of Ishkoy-Yurt, a village in the eastern portion of Chechnya's Gudermes. Vadalov also seems to have spent much of his youth in the Gudermes region, though some reports have suggested that he studied for a short period of time in Moscow in the late 1980s, perhaps at a technical institute.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the First Chechen War in 1994, Vadalov joined the separatist fighters from Gudermes; he may have served in the unit of Sheik Fathi, a Chechen who had lived in Jordan and engaged in Islamist conflicts in Afghanistan and Tajikistan. It has been postulated that if Vadalov did indeed serve alongside Fathi, it would indicate a very early exposure to the Islamist interpretation of the war in Chechnya.\n\nThough Vadalov played no role in the 1999 Dagestan incursion led by Shamil Basayev and Ibn al-Khattab, following Russia's re-invasion of Chechnya that autumn he joined Khattab's Arab Mujahideen in Chechnya. After engaging in the battles for Argun and Gudermes, Vadalov's unit withdrew to the mountainous districts of Vedeno and Nozhay-Yurt in order to launch guerrilla attacks on Russian security forces.\n\nIn 2000, Vadalov returned to Ishkoy-Yurt for unknown reasons and joined a small, local guerrilla force; the unit operated both independently and in cooperation with other rebel formations, including taking part in the 17 September 2001 attack on Gudermes. The next few years saw the separatist movement incur significant losses, but Vadalov was able to distinguish himself mainly due to his survival skills. As such, he was named Deputy Commander of the Gudermes Region of the Chechen Armed Forces under Emir Askhab. Although this unit that he commanded lacked manpower, his team and him were able to launch numerous small but significant attacks against the Russian security forces, especially around Ishkoy-Yurt.\n\nFollowing Emir Askhab's death in early 2005, Vadalov was named Commander of the Gudermes region. However, while a capable small-unit commander, Vadalov struggled when in control of a larger fighting force that required a broader strategic perspective. His unit was eventually driven out of Gudermes proper and forced back into the highlands of Vedeno and Nozhay-Yurt. Despite these setbacks, he still maintained a reputation for \"commitment to the cause and hard-fought guerrilla operations.\" He has been fighting with the Caucasus Emirate rebels against Russian forces since 1994 and was apparently one of the first to swear allegiance to Doku Umarov in 2007. Caucasus Emirate was formed 2007. He was fighting for independent Chechnya until 2007.\n\nHis relationship with Amir Khattab is of significance. Previously he was the commander of the Eastern Front of the Armed Forces of the Caucasus Emirate, although in practice he was commanding a force of perhaps about 30-50 militants on the Ingushetian border.\n\nAkhmed Zakayev said Vadalov had been announced as the new Emir of the Caucasus Emirate because of a \"loss of confidence among his (Umarov's) subordinates. [The] Methods of Dokku Umarov, including attacks against civilians, were not supported by militants.\" He also said that Vadalov \"is a supporter of other views and is not affected by ideologists of Wahhabism.\" The Russian paper \"Kommersant\" had reported that Zakayev, sentenced to death by the Sharia Court of the Caucasus Emirate, had plans to establish contacts with Vadalov.\n\nOn 1 August 2010 the \"state web site\" of the Caucasus Emirate, \"Kavkaz Center\" reported that Doku Umarov had stepped down from his position as Emir of the Caucasus Emirate and appointed Vadalov to become his successor. On the video containing the announcement Umarov states that \"jihad should be led by younger and more energetic commanders.\" However, when the Kavkaz Center site was restored on-line after a \"service break\" on 3 August 2010, the original announcement had been replaced by one which stated, that Umarov only \"proposed to appoint\" Vadalov his successor. A few days later Umarov said he had no intention of stepping down and called the video announcing his resignation a fabrication.\n\nOn August 13, 2010 \"Kavkaz Center\" announced that Aslambek Vadalov had resigned from his post of Deputy Military Emir of the Caucasus Emirate.\n\nDays after Umarov rescinded his resignation, Vadalov was said to have renounced adherence of an oath given to Umarov; however it was said that while he ceases subordination to Umarov, he would remain loyal to the larger Caucasus Emirate.\n\nIn July 2011, a sharia court ruled in favour of Umarov to close the rift caused by Umarov's reorganisation of the armed forces of Chechnya, the disbanding the so-called \"eastern and south-western fronts\" and dividing Chechnya into \"military sectors.\" The court asked the rebels to re-swear allegiance to Umarov. Amir Khamzat, the commander of the Riyad-us Saliheen Brigade of Martyrs or the organisation's suicide battalion who has been named the commander of the western sector. Hussein Gakayev, who had been named to lead the eastern sector, Aslambek Vadalov and Tarkhan Gaziev consequently followed suit and re-affirmed their allegiance to Umarov.\n\nIn November 2016, Vadalov was reportedly arrested in Turkey.\n"}
{"id": "40324726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40324726", "title": "Benjamin Nzimbi", "text": "Benjamin Nzimbi\n\nBenjamin Paul Mwanzia Nzimbi (born Kitui District, 1945) is a Kenyan Anglican Archbishop. He was the Archbishop and Primate of the Anglican Church of Kenya and Bishop of the Diocese of All Saints Cathedral, from 2002 to 2009. He is married to Alice Kavula and the couple has five children.\n\nHe was born in a poor family of eight children and went to attend Ithookwe Primary, Mulutu Intermediary and Kitui School. He later attended Kenyatta University, where he obtained a bachelor's degree in Education, with majors in Religion and Kishwahili. Afterwards he worked as a lecturer at Machakos Teachers Training College, where he was dean of students and head of social studies. He felt his religious call then and was trained and ordained as the college chaplain.\n\nHe finally decided to leave teaching to become a full-time priest. He studied for the priesthood at the Trinity and St. Francis College, in Karen in 1984. Nzimbi was elected afterwards the first bishop of the new Diocese of Machakos, which he was from 1985 to 1995. In 1995 he was elected the first bishop of the newly created Diocese of Kitui. Nzimbi was elected the fourth Archbishop and Primate of Kenya and Bishop of the Diocese of All Saints Cathedral, on 16 August 2002, and served from 2002 to 2009.\n\nHe opposed the acceptance on non-celibate gay clergy and the blessing of same-sex unions in the United States and Canada branches of the Anglican Communion, becoming a leading name in the Anglican realignment as member of the Global South and the Fellowship of Confessing Anglicans. He attended the GAFCON meeting in Jerusalem, in 2008, and supported the creation of the Anglican Church in North America, in June 2009. He was one of the Anglican Primates that attended the new church inaugural assembly in Bedford, Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "26451557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26451557", "title": "Blu (artist)", "text": "Blu (artist)\n\nBlu is the pseudonym of an Italian artist who conceals his real identity. He was born in Senigallia. He lives in Bologna and has been somewhat active in street art since 1999.\n\nHis early career involved the practice of shared artistic actions. Artists such as Dem, Sweza, Run and, above all, Ericailcane, were his companions during nocturnal raids where an anonymous creative participation overcame the need of signing their pieces. Also, during those years, Blu started experimenting with digital animation, and he created short interactive video clips that were used as a visual contribution to the live musical performances of the collective OK NO.\n\nThe collaboration with Ericailcane had its best results from 2003 to 2006. The two personalities complemented each other; while Blu was painting his characteristic human figures Ericailcane made his typical animals. The two artists, friends in real life, continue to work together, although less often.\n\nBegging in 2004, a few art galleries had noticed Blu's immensely artistic value and invited him to take part in both one-man and collective shows. Yet Blu, throughout his entire youthful career, attempted to limit his presence within the official art world, preferring other kinds of territories.\n\nSince his very major pieces outside of his videos have been immovable murals, the survey below of Blu's work is geographical rather than chronological.\n\nHis nomadic spirit reached its peak in 2005. From the end of that year Blu spent most of his time jumping around in self-guided travels, linking his itineraries to the festivals to which he was invited. At that time he collaborated with Ericailcane and several artists from Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Guatemala, and Honduras in a festival in Managua called \"Murales de Octubre.\" On that occasion he painted a wall, significant in the history of South American murals, on the Avenida Bolivar where, in 1979, Victor Canifrù celebrated the Sandinista revolution. With this he achieved one of his most imposing murals which was immediately dubbed Hombre Banano (Banana Man) by the locals, referring to the protest of the workers on banana plantations.\nThe following year, from October 2006 to December 2006, he returned to Central and South America for a long circuit of murals that included Mexico City, Guatemala City, Managua, San José (Costa Rica), and finally, Buenos Aires (Argentina). A year later he was again in South America, in São Paulo, Brazil, participating in the festival \"A Conquista do Espaço\" (Conquering Space). On that occasion he came up with a new interpretation of the \"Christ of Corcovado\" of Rio de Janeiro. In Blu's version Christ is literally submerged by tons of guns and rifles.\nFrom the Fall of 2007 to the Spring of 2008, he lived in Buenos Aires, devoting all his efforts to the creation of a video called \"Muto\" (Silent). In addition to receiving many international awards, such as the Grand Prix 2009 from the Festival of Clermont-Ferrand, \"Muto\" has been seen by 10 million-plus viewers on YouTube. It is also available in high definition on Blu's website under the Creative Commons license. This video is composed of hundreds of paintings on walls, made throughout many streets of Buenos Aires and, frame by frame, created more than seven minutes of an animated mural.\n\nIn 2009 Blu started his umpteenth tour around South America visiting Bogotá for the festival \"Memoria Canalla\", then to Montevideo, Uruguay, back to Buenos Aires and, for the first time, to Lima, Peru, where he painted the entire façade of an historical building in the central Avenida Arenales. In this huge mural Blu seems to reinterpret the history of South America, a continent that has been violated by both ancient and modern conquistadores.\n\nIn 2008 Blu accepted an invitation from the Deitch Gallery in New York to paint the exterior of their Long Island location.\nAfter being invited by the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles to paint an exterior wall of the museum for its \"Art in the Street\" exhibition, its director Jeffrey Deitch ordered the resulting mural to be whitewashed the day after it was finished, probably due to its political content. The mural represented two rows of coffins each draped with a one dollar bill in place of the American flag.\n\nIn 2007, Santa's Ghetto, a London-based art collective which organizes annual happenings of painting performances and print trade fairs, invited Blu to a festival that took place in the West Bank. Blu was part of a group of artists, including Banksy, Mark Jenkins, Ron English, Swoon, and Faile who painted on the wall around Bethlehem that separates the West Bank from Israel. On a watchtower border Blu painted a figure of a person trying to tear down the walls with his finger.\n\nIn 2010 Blu was invited to Vienna to paint a mural at the Danube River harbour near Albern in the city district of Simmering. \nFirst suggested in 1923 as one possibility for the expansion of Vienna's harbour facilities, Albern was selected for realisation by the German Reich Ministry of Transport \"(Reichsverkehrsministerium)\" in 1939, a year after the \"Anschluss\" of Austria to Nazi Germany. The project was to serve as a logistic node of a future geo- and biopolitical order, designated for the transshipment of grain from the annexed or economically colonized regions of eastern and south-eastern Europe to the heartlands of the German Reich. For the construction of the harbour basin and its five granaries between 1939 and 1942 the Nazi regime employed forced labour. Realized on one of the granaries, Blu's mural called upon the overdue historical and social commemoration of the place's charged history and the unknown fates of the forced labourers who built it. The commissioned piece was destroyed in autumn 2013 in the course of renovation works.\n\nIn Eastern Europe Blu has painted in Belgrade, Serbia in 2009, in Wrocław and Gdańsk, Poland, in 2008. In Gdańsk, located on the industrial harbor where the destinies of twentieth-century Europe intersected, he used an abandoned hangar as the background for his short movie, \"Morphing,\" where the symbols of this place, loaded with history, are mixed together. Gdańsk Harbor was indeed invaded first by the Nazis, then by the Red Army and subsequently saw the birth of the trade union movement, Solidarność (Solidarity), and finally, the victory of capitalism.\nAlso, in 2008, Blu was in Prague in the Czech Republic for the \"Names Festival\" to paint a mural called Gaza Strip, where tanks and bulldozers are seen chasing each other along a Möbius strip.\n\nIn 2007, Blu went to London for the first time where he made many pieces around Camden Town and Willow Street, and at the former headquarters of art-gallery website Pictures on Walls. That same summer he took part in a two-man exhibit with Ericailcane at the Lazarides Gallery. The following year, the Tate Modern presented an exhibition on the phenomenon of street art and invited Blu, along with JR, Faile, Sixeart, and Os Gêmeos e Nunca, to paint its entire main façade.\n\nBlu worked in Germany on many occasions between 2006 and 2009, mostly in Berlin, and always around Cuvrystraße in a multi-ethnic neighborhood called Kreuzberg. Thanks to his participation in several of the festivals \"Backjump\" and \"Planetprozess,\" he had the opportunity to create some of his works, one of which was painted in combination with gigantic photos by the French artist JR.\n\nIn 2006, during one of these trips, Blu made his first digital animation from images painted directly on a wall, a technique that would be a recurrent theme of many of his future videos such as \"Muto.\"\n\nIn consultation with Blu the two murals at Cuvrystraße were covered with black paint in 2014 by a group of people as a sign of discontent with the city's urban development policies in the area.\n\nItaly, above any other country, can boast of having the majority of Blu's graffiti, both illegal and legal. Among the public projects worth noting are the façade of PAC (the Contemporary Art Pavilion) in Milan, finished in 2008; the murals in that city's Bicocca and Lambrate train stations, done in 2008 and in 2009; three editions of \"Spinafestival\" in Comacchio (2005, 2006 and 2007); two editions of \"Fame Festival a Grottaglie\" (2008 and 2009). In this last one, Blu completed a video-animation with the New York-based artist, David Ellis. Blu has also taken part in many editions of the festival \"Icone\" in Modena and in Ancona's \"Festival Pop Up\" in 2008 where he painted along with Ericailcane a gigantic silos next to the harbor waterfront. Other Italian cities where Blu has left his mark are varied, among which are Prato, Florence, Grosseto, Turin, Ancona, Rovereto, Verona and Pesaro.\nIn Bologna there were most of his first works because of his studies in the city's University. In 2016 he deleted all murals painted in Bologna due to the decision taken by the municipality who made an exhibition trying to profit from Blu's graffiti without his permission.\n\nBlu has also painted in several \"Centri Sociali\", places that are between squats and self-managed cultural centers. In Bologna his work is visible at XM24, TPO, Livello 57, Crash; in Rome at Forte Prenestino and Collatino; in Milan at Cox 18 and Leoncavallo and in Pisa at Cantiere San Bernardo.\n\nBlu has frequently visited Spain. At the festival \"Segundo Asalto\" in Zaragoza, he, along with the artists San, Eltono, Nuria, and Nano, painted a mural of a colossal minotaur picking up an astonished man. Blu's murals can also be found in Valencia, Linares, Madrid and Barcelona. In Barcelona's Barrio Carmelo neighborhood, Blu took part in the 2008 edition of the festival \"The Influencers\". With the global economic crisis looming, Blu painted a threatening shark whose skin is completely covered in euro bills.\n\nThe list of the places where Blu has left his trace is as long as his collection of sketchbooks which contain sketches, thoughts or simply visual notes. Often these drawings function as a script for his improvisations on walls.\n\nHis graphic mania is directly proportional to the epic scale of his murals. His paintings seem to interpret the architectural language of public spaces and reinvent them into new shapes. Thus, his murals are never detached from the places where they were conceived because Blu is a painter in the landscape, urban or industrial. He always tries to communicate with the society which inhabits those spaces, searching for the uniqueness of each place.\nBesides drawing and painting, the technical universe of Blu is completed by a skillful use of the digital medium. Proof of that can be seen in his website where his manual craftsmanship is combined with computer programming language.\nThe recurring themes of his imagery play on the distortion of the human figure. He speaks a pop vocabulary which resembles the automatic writing process of the surrealist tradition with purely rhetorical processes.\n\nIn short, Blu's artistic practice has contributed to a radical change in the art market. His murals and his videos are given for free to the public space of the cities and on the World Wide Web. His income comes from the sale of multiples, like silkscreen prints, in those few galleries which represent him, or through the sale of self-made editions.\nThe works of Blu appear abrupt because they are derived from the free creativity of an artist who has decided to occupy a position outside the sheltered field of art. As magically as they appear they can disappear, sometimes covered by other paintings by Blu himself, sometimes ruined by time and weather, but mostly erased by the authorities in the name of tidiness.\n\nBlu's aesthetic search is motivated by a belief in an open source philosophy, persistent in its anarchical revolt against contemporary art conventions and unique in beauty.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43720924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43720924", "title": "Brahmanandam filmography", "text": "Brahmanandam filmography\n\nBRAHMANANDAM (born 1 February 1956) popularly known by his first name is an Indian film actor and comedian working mostly in Telugu films. He currently holds the Guinness World Record for the most screen credits for a living actor. He was honoured with the Padma Shri, for his contribution to Indian cinema in 2009. Brahmanandam is considered one of the most versatile Indian comic actors, noted particularly for his comic expressions. Brahmanandam was part of the television quiz show \"Brahmi 1 million Show\" on iNews.\nHe appeared in more than 1,000 films till date.\n"}
{"id": "28831741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28831741", "title": "Camila Batmanghelidjh", "text": "Camila Batmanghelidjh\n\nCamila Batmanghelidjh, CBE (; \"Kamylā Batmanghelych\"; born 1963) is an Iranian-born author and former charity executive in the United Kingdom. She is best known as the founder of Kids Company, a charity which worked with marginalised children and young people in the UK.\n\nBetween 1996 and 2015, Batmanghelidjh became a high-profile \"media darling\", fêted by celebrities and politicians for her work with Kids Company. In 2007, \"The Guardian\" described her as \"one of the most powerful advocates for vulnerable children in the country\". She was dubbed the \"Angel of Peckham\".\n\nIn 2015, amid allegations of mismanagement and the squandering of funds, Batmanghelidjh was forced to step down as the charity's chief executive, and Kids Company was closed, by then insolvent, despite receiving millions of pounds in government funding.\n\nBatmanghelidjh was born in 1963 in Tehran, Iran, the third of four children, to Fereydoon Batmanghelidj (–2004), a doctor, and his wife Lucile, a Belgian national. Her parents met and married in London, where her father was studying at St Mary's Hospital, before returning to Tehran. Batmanghelidjh was born two-and-a-half months premature and was not expected to survive. Her birth was not registered and the date was not noted. The preterm birth resulted in Batmanghelidjh developing learning disabilities (including dyslexia) and an endocrine disorder affecting her weight.\n\nShe attended Sherborne School for Girls, an independent school in Dorset. She attended the University of Warwick where she received a first class degree in Theatre and the Dramatic Arts. At the age of 25 she was employed as a part-time psychotherapist in a project in Camberwell, south London, funded by Children in Need.\n\nIn 1991, Batmanghelidjh was involved in the formation of The Place to Be, a Family Service Unit project working with troubled children in primary schools. Batmanghelidjh resigned from the project in 1995.\n\nThe Urban Academy was a post-16 educational and life skills academy in Southwark, south London. It was founded by Batmanghelidjh and was run by her Kids Company organisation.\n\nIn 1996, after leaving The Place To Be, Batmanghelidjh founded Kids Company, a charity that provided care to children whose lives had been disrupted by poverty, abuse and trauma. Originally a single drop-in centre in Camberwell, Kids Company claimed that it helped some 36,000 children, young people and families, although this figure is disputed. The charity operated through a network of street level centres, alternative education centres, therapy houses and with over 40 schools in London and Bristol as well as a performing arts programme in Liverpool.\n\nDeborah Orr, in an interview with Batmanghelidgh, reported in 2012 that fifteen independent evaluations of Kids Company had found that 96 per cent of children assisted return to education and employment and an \"impact on crime reduction\" of 88 per cent.\n\nIn 2015, it was first reported that Kids Company was in significant financial difficulty. In July 2015 a report by Newsnight and BuzzFeed revealed that public funding for Kids Company was to be withheld unless Batmanghelidjh was replaced. On 3 July it was reported that Batmanghelidjh would step down as chief executive in the next few months and continue in a \"presidential\" role.\n\nOn 5 August 2015, Kids Company closed its operations less than a week after receiving a government grant of £3,000,000. The charity was given the money against the advice of officials, who had raised concerns about value for money and how it would be spent. The charity had announced that it was closing down because \"it is unable to pay its debts as they fall due”.\n\nSpeaking to \"The Daily Telegraph\" in August 2015, Batmanghelidjh said she hoped Kids Company could make a comeback after some restructuring and once the media storm had died down.\nIn mid-August 2015, Batmanghelidjh announced that she would be opening a food bank in Lambeth, south London. She said fifty former staff had volunteered to help run the pop-up \"Kids Dining Room\" in Loughborough Junction to provide food for up to 3,000 children and young people. Approximately 200 people used the service in August 2015.\n\nIn 2009 Batmanghelidjh was named Businesswoman of the Year in the Dods and Scottish Widows Women in Public Life Awards. A \"New Statesman\" readers' poll awarded her the title Person of the Year in 2006. She has also received Ernst and Young's Social Entrepreneur of the Year award (2005), \"Third Sector\" magazine's Most Admired Chief Executive (2007) and the Centre for Social Justice's lifetime achievement award in 2009. Batmanghelidjh has been awarded honorary degrees and doctorates by several universities including York St John University, the Open University, Brunel University, London South Bank University and Nottingham Trent University. In September 2006 she was conferred with an Honorary Fellowship of Goldsmiths, University of London.\n\nIn February 2013, she was named one of the 100 most powerful women in the United Kingdom by \"Woman's Hour\" on BBC Radio 4. She was appointed an honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for services to children and young people. In September 2014 she became an Honorary Fellow of UCL.\n\n\nBatmanghelidjh was the subject of \"Ruby Wax Gets Streetwise\", a documentary film about her charity work with Kids Company, presented by Ruby Wax. Directed by Michael Waldman, the film was broadcast on 15 March 2000 by BBC Two.\n\nIn 2002, she was interviewed by Fergal Keane for \"Taking A Stand\", a radio documentary exploring her work as an advocate for \"society's most anti-social, violent and disruptive children\". The 30-minute documentary was first broadcast on 15 January 2002 by BBC Radio 4.\n\nA 2003 Channel Four series, \"Second Chance\", featured Batmanghelidjh's work at Kids Company with children who had been labelled \"unteachable\".\n\nBatmanghelidjh's work with Kids Company was the subject of \"Tough Kids, Tough Love\", a film by Lynn Alleway, first broadcast on 19 October 2005 by BBC Two. \nAlleway made a second film, at Batmanghelidjh's invitation, during the summer of 2015, which unwittingly captured the collapse of Kids Company. Sam Wollaston, writing in \"The Guardian\", described it as: \"like an invitation, on the evening of 14 April 1912, to the bridge of the \"Titanic\".\" The film was broadcast as \"Camila's Kids Company: The Inside Story\" on 3 February 2016 by BBC One.\n\nVideo installation artist Larisa Blazic created a multi screen video installation \"Angel (of Peckham)\" which was displayed in Currys Digital shop window in August 2007 and was inspired by her and William Blake's vision of angels in Peckham Rye.\n\n"}
{"id": "7185029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7185029", "title": "Christopher Geidt, Baron Geidt", "text": "Christopher Geidt, Baron Geidt\n\nChristopher Edward Wollaston MacKenzie Geidt, Baron Geidt, (born 17 August 1961), is a member of the House of Lords and Chairman of King's College London. He was Private Secretary to Queen Elizabeth II from 2007 to 2017.\n\nBorn in Marylebone, son of magistrates' court chief clerk Mervyn Bernard Geidt (1926-1991) and Diana Cecil (née MacKenzie), Geidt attended the Dragon School, Oxford, and Trinity College, Glenalmond. He graduated in War Studies from King's College, London, and in International Relations from Trinity Hall, Cambridge. Geidt also spent periods at Bristol, Harvard and Oxford universities. He is a Fellow of King's College London (FKC), an Honorary Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford, and an Honorary Bencher of Middle Temple.\n\nAn Army Scholar, Geidt enlisted in the Scots Guards and attended the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst. He was later commissioned in the Intelligence Corps.\n\nIn 1987 Geidt joined the staff of the Royal United Services Institute for Defence Studies, becoming an Assistant Director. From 1994 he worked for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in diplomatic posts in Sarajevo, Geneva and Brussels.\n\nIn 1991 Geidt and Anthony de Normann sued the journalist John Pilger and Central Television over the documentary \"Cambodia: The Betrayal\" in which they were accused of being members of the SAS secretly engaged in the training of the Khmer Rouge. Geidt and de Normann accepted ‘very substantial’ damages and all costs. In a related libel action Ann Clwyd MP, then shadow minister for overseas development, issued a public apology to Geidt and de Normann and agreed to meet all legal costs.\n\nDuring and after the war in Bosnia (1992–1995), Geidt was deployed to liaise with the Bosnian Serb leadership, including Radovan Karadžić, Momčilo Krajišnik and General Ratko Mladić, all later indicted for war crimes. He assisted the High Representative, Carl Bildt, in negotiating with Serbian President Slobodan Milošević for the removal of Karadžić from the Presidency of the Bosnian Serb ‘Republic’ in 1996.\n\nGeidt was recruited to the Royal Household in 2002 as Assistant Private Secretary to the Queen. He was promoted to Deputy Private Secretary in 2005 before serving for a decade as the Queen's Private Secretary (2007–2017).\nDuring his appointment as Private Secretary, Geidt was also Keeper of the Queen’s Archives and a Trustee of both the Royal Collection and the Queen’s Silver Jubilee Trust (later the Queen's Trust). He remains a Trustee of the Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust and is also Chairman of the Queen's Commonwealth Trust. \n\nAs Private Secretary, Geidt had been a member of the so-called 'golden triangle' of senior British officials – the others being the Cabinet Secretary and the Principal Private Secretary to the Prime Minister – with key responsibilities in the event of a 'hung parliament' in the United Kingdom, as happened in 2010.\n\nAfter ten years as Private Secretary, Geidt stepped down in October 2017. He was subsequently created Baron Geidt, of Crobeg in the County of Ross and Cromarty, and sits as a Crossbench peer in the House of Lords.\n\nGeidt is the Honorary Regimental Colonel of the London Scottish Regiment, having succeeded George, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen in 2016.\n\nIn 1996 he married Emma Charlotte Angela Neill, youngest daughter of Patrick Neill, Baron Neill of Bladen. The couple have two daughters. Geidt's father was the first cousin of actor Jeremy Geidt.\n\nGeidt was appointed a Privy Counsellor (PC) in 2007. \n\nHe was invested as a Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order (GCVO) by the Queen upon relinquishing appointment as Private Secretary. In 2018 he was appointed Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath (GCB) for public service, and became a Companion of the Queen's Service Order (QSO) for public service in New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "24165085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24165085", "title": "Dalem Bekung", "text": "Dalem Bekung\n\nDalem Bekung, also known as \"Pamayun\", was a king of Bali who is traditionally dated in the second half of the 16th century. He belonged to a dynasty of kings who were descended from Majapahit on Java, and reigned from their palace (puri) in Gelgel.\n\nThe main source for his reign is the Babad Dalem, a chronicle from the 18th century. He was the son of the successful king Dalem Baturenggong, and came to the throne when still a minor. His uncle Dewa Anggungan wished to usurp kingship, and was supported by the nobleman Batan Jeruk who took Dalem Bekung and his brother Seganing into custody. He was immediately opposed by the majority of the grandees of the kingdom and the two infant princes were rescued. Batan Jeruk fled and was killed by loyalist soldiers. His kinsmen later founded the Karangasem kingdom in East Bali. \n\nDewa Anggungan was spared but lost his caste status as Ksatria. The Batan Jeruk rebellion is dated in 1556 or 1558 in Balinese texts. When old enough to reign in his own name, Dalem Bekung proved to be an inactive and cowardly ruler, which led to a loss of royal prestige and discipline among the grandees. He left the affairs of state to his chief minister Nginte. In this period the famous Brahmin sage Nirartha, who had entertained a profound impact on the religious elite culture on Bali, died. \n\nA conflict between the noblemen Kiyayi Pande and Gusti Talabah escalated into a full-scale rebellion where Kiyayi Pande mounted a desperate attack on the troops of the king. In the end he was defeated and killed with utmost effort, an event dated in 1578 by various texts. After this event Dalem Bekung had to leave the Gelgel palace. Late versions of the Babad Dalem assert that his brother Dalem Seganing took over as king in his stead at this point.\n\nTowards the end of Dalem Bekung's life, a military expedition was organized to support the East Javanese kingdom of Blambangan against Pasuruan, a port and kingdom on the north coast of Java. The expedition, which was led by the nobleman Jelantik, sailed to Panarukan in East Java, and marched into the land of Pasuruan. However, it met with a shattering defeat and Jelantik was killed. Some time after this calamity, Dalem Bekung died. His name is in fact a nickname, meaning 'the childless'. His brother Dalem Seganing either took the throne or continued to reign.\n\nWhen the first Dutch expedition, under Cornelis de Houtman, visited Bali in 1597, they met a king who might have been either Dalem Bekung or Dalem Seganing. The king was described as a heavily built, stout man of about 40–50 years. The Dutchmen provided lively accounts of the royal splendours they saw on Bali, which accord rather well with the descriptions in the later Balinese chronicles. At the time of their visit, a large Balinese expedition was prepared in order to assist the still Hindu kingdom of Blambangan against the Muslim Pasuruan. A later Dutch account indicates that the expedition was fruitless, since Blambangan fell to Pasuruan in c. 1597. It has been argued that this must be the Jelantik expedition mentioned in the Babad Dalem. Another hypothesis places Dalem Bekung's reign much later, in the 1630s.\n\n"}
{"id": "295485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295485", "title": "Dirk Hoogendam", "text": "Dirk Hoogendam\n\nDirk Hoogendam, a.k.a. Dieter Hohendamm, alias \"The Boxer\" (18 May 1922, Vlaardingen - 8 August 2003 in Ringgau, Germany), was a Dutch war criminal. \n\nHoogendam was sentenced to death after World War II because of his service in a foreign army (the German SS) and severe mistreatment of prisoners in Drenthe during the war. The sentence was later commuted to life imprisonment. In 1946 however, Hoogendam escaped and fled to Germany, and only a few years before his death, the Dutch paper \"De Telegraaf\" discovered that he was living in Ringgau under the name of Hohendamm. \n\nJust before his death, the Netherlands asked the German government to prosecute him, together with five other in Germany living war criminals. Subsequently, the German Justice department announced that one of them, Herbertus Bikker, was to appear for court on 8 September 2003 for his part in the murder of Dutch resistance member Jan Houtman.\n"}
{"id": "11280033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11280033", "title": "Edward Anseele", "text": "Edward Anseele\n\nEdward Anseele (26 July 1856 – 18 February 1938) was a Belgian socialist politician. Although his parents rather belonged to the lower middle class (his father was a shoemaker), Edward Anseele became active in the early socialist movement. Anseele attended the Royal Athenaeum in Ghent until the age of 17.\n\nThe socialist congress of 1877 in Ghent was the start of his socialist commitment. He became employed as a journalist of the magazine \"De Volkswil\", later transformed into the socialist daily \"Vooruit!\" (English: \"Forward!\"). He organized a cooperative bakery \"Vooruit\" which was founded in 1880. This was the start of a complete range of cooperative ventures which in the long term would create an industrial empire. This way, Anseele tried to create a counterweight to the capitalist ventures, and was able to provide support to workers' actions. During the economic crisis of the thirties this network of cooperatives would be largely lost.\n\nAnseele was for a long time municipality Council member and alderman in Ghent, temporary burgomaster and a Member of Parliament. He was one of the founders of the socialist Belgische Werkliedenpartij. During World War I the Germans offered him the title of \"President of Belgium\", which he declined. After the war, he was rewarded for this stance with several ministerial functions: from 1918 until 1921, he was the minister for Public Works and from 1925 until 1927 minister of Railroads and PTT (Mail Telegraph and Telephone). In 1930, he got the honorary title of Minister of State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "393867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393867", "title": "Einars Repše", "text": "Einars Repše\n\nEinars Repše (born 9 December 1961 in Jelgava, Latvia) is a Latvian politician, chairman of the Association for Latvian Development.\n\nEinars Repše graduated from Latvia State University (now known as University of Latvia) in 1986 with a degree in physics (specialisation – radio electronics).\nHe first entered politics in 1988 as one of the founders of the Latvian National Independence Movement (LNNK), a political organization promoting Latvia's independence from the Soviet Union. He was elected to the parliament of Latvia in 1990.\n\nFrom 1991 to 2001, Repše was the president of the Bank of Latvia (Latvia's central bank). During this period, he oversaw the introduction of the Latvian rublis, Latvia's temporary transition currency, and the Lats, independent Latvia's new currency. Under Repše, the Bank of Latvia pursued a tight monetary policy, implementing a de facto currency board for the Lats. As a result, the exchange rate of the lat has been stable since the early 1990s till now. The success of the Lats made Repše very popular in Latvia.\n\nIn 2001, Repše resigned from the Bank of Latvia to return to politics. He founded the New Era Party, a Populist anti-corruption party. After the 2002 elections, Repše became the Prime Minister of Latvia in November 2002. He led a coalition of his own New Era Party, the Latvia's First Party, the Union of Greens and Farmers and For Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK. Repše's government became known for an outspoken fight against corruption and tax evasion. Several high-ranked government officials, including the head of Latvia's state revenue service, were fired or resigned. The anti-corruption measures resulted in some success, as the revenues from the gasoline tax, previously notorious for tax evasion, increased by 30% in one year. The revenues from other taxes, however, were not significantly different, compared to the previous governments, and some of the anti-corruption measures backfired (for example, some of the fired officials successfully sued the Latvian government for wrongful dismissal). Repše's government also implemented a tight control on budget expenses, reducing the budget deficit from 3% of GDP in 2002 to 1.8% in 2003.\n\nStarting in September 2003, a conflict between Repše and the Latvia First Party, one of his coalition partners, became apparent. Repše blamed the conflict on vested interests resisting his anti-corruption plans. The coalition partners mentioned Repše's authoritarian management style and unofficially delegating many of his powers as prime minister to his chief of staff Dans Titavs as the main reason for the conflict. Repše's government became a minority administration in January 2004 after the Latvia First Party left the government. He and his cabinet resigned in February 2004. After being in opposition during Indulis Emsis government, the New Era Party joined the Aigars Kalvītis coalition government in December 2004, with Repše becoming the minister of defense. During his service, however, he at times was portrayed by the press as more involved in his hobbies and business, than in governmental activities, losing popularity among electorate.\n\nIn 2003, Repše bought real estate at various locations in rural Latvia for a total of 323 718 lats (approx. 500 000 euros). His real estate purchases were funded by loans from two Latvian banks, Hansabanka and Nord/LB Latvia. Repše's opponents immediately questioned his real estate deals, claiming that Repše has used his position to obtain loans on conditions better than those available to the general public. His deals were investigated by a special committee of the Latvian parliament. In December 2005, a criminal investigation was started by the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau (KNAB). Due to this investigation, Repše resigned from his position as the minister of defense. On 12 October 2007 KNAB closed the criminal investigation – no wrongdoing was discovered.\n\nRepše's questionable real estate deals, confrontational management style and flamboyant lifestyle led to a major decline in his popularity. In 1999 and 2000, Repše was one of the most trusted politicians in Latvia, with 75%–80% Latvians having a positive opinion of him. By the time of his resignation in 2005, he was the least popular minister in the Latvian government.\n\nRepše was Minister of Finance of Latvia from 12 March 2009 to 3 November 2010.\n\nHe is a chairman of the Association for Latvian Development (founded in March 2012).\n\nAs to his hobbies, he is known to be interested in Flying, aircraft building, and painting.\n"}
{"id": "1132741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132741", "title": "Eugen d'Albert", "text": "Eugen d'Albert\n\nEugen (originally Eugène) Francois Charles d'Albert (10 April 18643 March 1932) was a Scottish-born German pianist and composer.\n\nEducated in Britain, d'Albert showed early musical talent and, at the age of seventeen, he won a scholarship to study in Austria. Feeling a kinship with German culture and music, he soon emigrated to Germany, where he studied with Franz Liszt and began a career as a concert pianist. D'Albert repudiated his early training and upbringing in Scotland and considered himself German.\n\nWhile pursuing his career as a pianist, d'Albert focused increasingly on composing, producing 21 operas and a considerable output of piano, vocal, chamber and orchestral works. His most successful opera was \"Tiefland\", which premiered in Prague in 1903. His successful orchestral works included his cello concerto (1899), a symphony, two string quartets and two piano concertos. In 1907, d'Albert became the director of the Hochschule für Musik in Berlin, where he exerted a wide influence on musical education in Germany. He also held the post of Kapellmeister to the Court of Weimar.\n\nD'Albert was married six times, including to the pianist-singer Teresa Carreño, and was successively a British, German and Swiss citizen.\n\nD'Albert was born at 4 Crescent Place, Glasgow, Scotland, to an English mother, Annie Rowell, and a German-born father of French and Italian descent, Charles Louis Napoléon d'Albert (1809–1886), whose ancestors included the composers Giuseppe Matteo Alberti and Domenico Alberti. D'Albert's father was a pianist, arranger and a prolific composer of salon music who had been ballet-master at the King's Theatre and at Covent Garden. D'Albert was born when his father was 55 years old. \"The Musical Times\" wrote in 1904 that \"This, and other circumstances, accounted for a certain loneliness in the boy's home-life and the years of his childhood. He was misunderstood, and 'cribbed, cabined, and confined' to such an extent as to largely prejudice him against the country which gave him birth\".\n\nD'Albert was brought up in Glasgow and taught music by his father until he won a scholarship to the new National Training School for Music (forerunner of the Royal College of Music) in London, which he entered in 1876 at the age of 12. D'Albert studied at the National Training School with Ernst Pauer, Ebenezer Prout, John Stainer and Arthur Sullivan. By the age of 14, he was winning public praise from \"The Times\" as \"a bravura player of no mean order\" in a concert in October 1878. He played Schumann's Piano Concerto at the Crystal Palace in 1880, receiving more encouragement from \"The Times\": \"A finer rendering of the work has seldom been heard.\" Also in 1880, d'Albert arranged the piano reduction for the vocal score of Sullivan's sacred music drama \"The Martyr of Antioch\", to accompany the chorus in rehearsal. He is also credited with writing, under Sullivan's direction, the overture to Gilbert and Sullivan's 1881 opera, \"Patience\".\n\nFor many years, d'Albert dismissed his training and work during this period as worthless. \"The Times\" wrote that he \"was born and educated in England, and won his earliest successes in England, although, in a freak of boyish impetuosity, he repudiated some years ago all connexion with this country, where, according to his own account, he was born by mere accident and where he learnt nothing.\" In later years, however, he modified his views: \"The former prejudice which I had against England, which several incidents aroused, has completely vanished since many years.\"\n\nIn 1881, Hans Richter invited d'Albert to play his first piano concerto, which was \"received with enthusiasm\". This seems to have been d'Albert's lost concerto in A major, not the work published three years later as his Piano Concerto No. 1 in B minor, Op. 2. In the same year d'Albert won the Mendelssohn Scholarship, enabling him to study in Vienna, where he met Johannes Brahms, Franz Liszt and other important musicians who influenced his style. D'Albert, retaining his early enthusiasm for German culture and music (\"hearing \"Tristan und Isolde\" had a greater influence on him than the education he received from his father or ... at the National Training School for Music\") changed his first name from Eugène to Eugen and emigrated to Germany, where he became a pupil of the elderly Liszt in Weimar.\nIn Germany and Austria, d'Albert built a career as a pianist. Liszt called him \"the second Tausig\", and d'Albert can be heard in an early recording of Liszt works. He played his own piano concerto with the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra in 1882, the youngest pianist who had appeared with the orchestra. D'Albert toured extensively, including in the United States from 1904 to 1905. His virtuoso technique was compared to that of Busoni. He was praised for his playing of J. S. Bach's preludes and fugues and of Beethoven's sonatas. \"As an exponent of Beethoven, Eugen d'Albert has few, if any, equals.\" Gradually, d'Albert's work as a composer occupied his time more and more, and he reduced his concert playing. He was the recipient of a number of dedications, most notably of Richard Strauss's \"Burleske in D minor\", which he premiered in 1890.\n\nD'Albert was a prolific composer. His output includes a large volume of successful piano and chamber music and lieder. He also composed twenty-one operas, in a wide variety of styles, which premiered mostly in Germany. His first, \"Der Rubin\" (1893) was an oriental fantasy; \"Die Abreise\" (1898), which established him as an opera composer in Germany, was a one-act domestic comedy; \"Kain\" (1900) was a setting of the biblical story; and one of his last operas, \"Der Golem\", was on a traditional Jewish theme. His most successful opera was his seventh, \"Tiefland\", which premiered in Prague in 1903. When Thomas Beecham introduced the opera to London, \"The Times\" observed, \"the scoring owes more than a little to the discipline of Sullivan; there is also a curiously English fragrance\". \"Tiefland\" played in opera houses throughout the world and has retained a place in the standard German and Austrian repertoire, with a production at the Deutsche Oper Berlin, in November 2007. According to biographer Hugh Macdonald, it \"provides a link between Italian verismo and German expressionist opera, although the orchestral textures recall a more Wagnerian language.\" Another stage success was a comic opera called \"Flauto solo\" in 1905. D'Albert's most successful orchestral works included his cello concerto (1899), a symphony, two string quartets and two piano concertos. \"Though not a composer of profound originality ... he had an unfailing sense of dramatic appropriateness and all the resources of a symphonic technique to give it expression and was thus able to achieve success in so many styles\".\n\nD'Albert edited critical editions of the scores of Beethoven and Bach, transcribed Bach's organ works for the piano and wrote cadenzas for Beethoven's piano concertos. In 1907, he succeeded Joseph Joachim as director of the Hochschule für Musik in Berlin, in which capacity he had a wide influence on musical education in Germany. He also held the post of Kapellmeister to the Court of Weimar.\n\nD'Albert's friends included Richard Strauss, Hans Pfitzner, Engelbert Humperdinck, Ignatz Waghalter and Gerhart Hauptmann, the dramatist. He was married six times and had eight children. The first wife was Louise Salingré. The second, from 1892 to 1895, was the Venezuelan pianist, singer and composer Teresa Carreño, herself much married and considerably older than d'Albert. D'Albert and Carreño were the subject of a famous joke: \"Come quick! Your children and my children are quarrelling again with our children!\" The line, however, has also been attributed to others. His later wives were mezzo-soprano Hermine Finck, who originated the role of the witch in Humperdinck's \"Hansel and Gretel\"; actress Ida Fulda; Friederike (\"Fritzi\") Jauner; and Hilde Fels. His last companion was a mistress, Virginia Zanetti.\n\nIn 1914, d'Albert moved to Zurich and became a Swiss citizen. He died in 1932 at the age of 67 in Riga, Latvia, where he had travelled for a divorce from his sixth wife. In the weeks preceding his death, d'Albert was the subject of attacks by the press in Riga concerning his personal life. D'Albert was buried in the cemetery overlooking Lake Lugano in Morcote, Switzerland.\n\n\n\nAs pianist, d'Albert did not record extensively, although his recordings represent a wide range of music. They include his own Scherzo, Op. 16; Capriolen, Op. 32; Suite, Op. 1, Gavotte and Minuet; and piano arrangements from his opera \"Die Toten Augen\". He made several Beethoven recordings, including the Piano Sonatas Nos. 18 and 21 (\"Waldstein\"), and the \"Spring\" Sonata for violin and piano (with Andreas Weissgerber). A selection of Chopin pieces were recorded in the 1910s and 1920s, with études, polonaises and waltzes represented. Perhaps surprisingly, his teacher Liszt is not strongly represented among d'Albert's recordings, though he committed \"Au bord d'une source\" from \"Années de pèlerinage\" (1st year) to disc in 1916. Brahms, Mozart, Schubert and Weber also feature in his discography.\nAs a composer, d'Albert has been more widely represented on record in recent years than previously. Some modern recordings include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "86490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86490", "title": "Fergus mac Róich", "text": "Fergus mac Róich\n\nFergus mac Róich (son of \"Ró-ech\" or \"great horse\"; also mac Róig, mac Rossa) is a character of the Ulster Cycle of Irish mythology. Formerly the king of Ulster, he is tricked out of the kingship and betrayed by Conchobar mac Nessa, and becomes the ally and lover of Conchobar's enemy queen Medb of Connacht, and joins her expedition against Ulster in the \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\". The name \"Fergus\" (later Irish \"Fearghus\") means \"man-strength\" or \"virility\", and Fergus is described as being of enormous size and sexual potency. This leads him into many a precarious situation as in the story of the Táin Bó Flidhais.\n\nFergus becomes king of Ulster after his predecessor, Eochaid Sálbuide, is killed, along with the High King Fachtna Fáthach, by Eochu Feidlech in the Battle of Leitir Ruad. While king, he desires Eochaid Sálbuide's daughter Ness, but she will only consent to marry him if he allows her son Conchobar to be king for a year, so his sons will be the sons of a king. The nobles of Ulster reassure him that the boy will be king in name only, so Fergus agrees, but Conchobar, with his mother's help, rules so wisely that the nobles make him king permanently in Fergus's place. Fergus remains Conchobar's loyal retainer, and becomes the foster-father of Conchobar's eldest son Cormac Cond Longas and nephew Cúchulainn.\n\nConchobar's intended bride, Deirdre, elopes with the young warrior Naoise and his two brothers, and after some time of wandering they are tracked down to an island off Scotland. Conchobar announces he has forgiven them and sends Fergus, Cormac, Dubthach Dóeltenga, and Fergus' son Fíachu, to offer them safe conduct home. Naoise and his brothers swear they will eat no food until they dine with Conchobar at Emain Macha. Conchobar, however, orders the Ulstermen to invite Fergus, Cormac and Dubthach to feasts, and, as it is shameful to refuse hospitality, Fergus is separated from his charges, and Fíachu is left to escort them to Emain alone. When they arrive, Fíachu, Naoise and his brothers are murdered by Éogan mac Durthacht, a former enemy of Conchobar who has recently made peace with him. After hearing of this betrayal, Fergus, Cormac and Dubthach burn Emain Macha and defect to Connacht with three thousand followers, where they enter the service of king Ailill mac Máta and queen Medb. Conchobar forcibly marries Deirdre, who later commits suicide after he offers her to Éogan.\n\nFlidais, wife of Ailill Finn, a petty king of the Erris district of Connacht, falls in love with Fergus from afar. In Táin Bó Flidhais Fergus and Dubthach visit Ailill Finn, claiming to have fallen out with Ailill mac Máta and Medb, and provoke him to battle. However, he proves difficult to defeat, beating Dubthach in single combat and holding out against a siege of his stronghold. Fergus is only able to defeat him when Ailill arrives with the army of Connacht. After that, Fergus marries Flidais. It is said that unless he could have Flidais, it took seven women to satisfy him. He also becomes Medb's lover, and she is said to have needed thirty men to satisfy her if she couldn't have Fergus.\n\nWhen Ailill and Medb raise a huge army and launch the \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\" (Cattle Raid of Cooley) to steal Ulster's stud bull, Donn Cúailnge, Fergus' knowledge of the terrain means he is chosen to lead the way. He leads the army by a roundabout route, hoping to give the Ulstermen time to raise their own army, but they are disabled by a curse. He sends a message to Cúchulainn, who begins his single-handed defence of the province.\n\nThe Connacht army separates, with Ailill leading one section, and Medb and Fergus leading the other. Ailill is suspicious, and sends his charioteer to spy on them. The charioteer finds Fergus and Medb having sex, and unnoticed, steals Fergus' sword, which Ailill keeps safe as proof. Fergus makes himself a dummy sword of wood to hide his loss. Cúchulainn holds up the army's progress by fighting a series of champions in single combat. Fergus is sent to face him, but as foster-father and foster-son, neither wants to fight the other, and in any case Fergus has no sword. Cúchulainn agrees to yield on this occasion, on the condition that Fergus yields the next time they meet.\n\nEventually the Ulstermen recover from their curse, and the final battle begins. Ailill gives Fergus back his sword. Fergus meets Conchobar on the battlefield, and has him at his mercy, but is prevented from killing him by Cormac. He redirects his rage into cutting off the tops of three hills with his sword. Cúchulainn, who has so far sat out the battle, recuperating from his wounds, enters the fray and challenges Fergus. Fergus honours his promise and yields, pulling his followers from the field. Medb's other allies, seeing him withdraw, panic and begin to retreat. The Connacht army is routed, and Fergus bitterly remarks, \"It is the usual thing for a herd led by a mare to be strayed and destroyed.\"\n\nAfter the death of Conchobar, some of the Ulstermen propose inviting him home to be their king, but they ultimately decide to appoint Cormac, Conchobar's son and Fergus' foster-son, who is also in exile in Connacht. Cormac promises to remain friendly with Ailill and Medb, and sets out for Ulster. Fergus remains in Cruachan. On his journey, Cormac discovers a Connacht war-party raiding Ulster, and Cormac reluctantly attacks and defeats them. Word gets back to Medb, who sends her army after him, while keeping Fergus occupied. Eventually he hears what is happening and sets off in his chariot, but arrives too late – Cormac is already dead.\n\nOne day, after Fergus has been in exile for fourteen years, Ailill sees him swimming in a lake with Medb, and is overcome with jealousy. He tells his brother, Lugaid Dalleces, who is blind, that deer are playing in the water, and persuades him to throw a spear at them. He does so, and the spear hits Fergus in the chest. He climbs out of the water and throws the spear back, killing Ailill's deer-hound, before dying. His death-tale relates that he had killed Éogan mac Durthacht, but this story is lost.\n\nThe story is told that, in the 6th century, the poet Senchán Torpéist gathered the poets of Ireland together to see if any of them knew the story of the \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\", but they all only knew parts of it. His son Muirgen came to Fergus' grave and spoke a poem, and Fergus' ghost appeared to him and related the events of the \"Táin\" as they happened.\n\nAnother legendary Ulster king, Fergus mac Léti, is regarded as a double of Fergus mac Róich: both die in water, and are associated with the sword Caladbolg. Another legendary Fergus, Fergus Foga of the Corcu Óchae of Munster, is identified with Fergus mac Róich by T. F. O'Rahilly.\nThe Ciarraige, an early medieval people who gave their name to County Kerry, traced their ancestry to Ciar, a son of Fergus and Medb, as do the Conmhaícne of Leitrim, Sligo, and Galway, through Conmac. The Masraige, a tribe inhabiting Magh Slécht in County Cavan were descended from Fergus according to Corpus Genealogiarum Hiberniae, 1 16r A44, 279. According to \"The Stem of the Irish Nation\" by John O'Hart, Fergus had the following triplets with Medb;\n\n\nOther issue attributed to Fergus by O'Hart includes;\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26821727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26821727", "title": "Florence Yoch &amp; Lucile Council", "text": "Florence Yoch &amp; Lucile Council\n\nFlorence Theresa Yoch (July 15, 1890 – January 31, 1972) and Lucile Council (November 17, 1898 – January 21, 1964) were influential California landscape designers, practicing in the first half of the 20th century in Southern California.\n\nFlorence Yoch was born in Carmel, California. She attended the University of California, Berkeley, Cornell University and finally the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign where she obtained a degree in Landscape Gardening. She began her practice in Pasadena in 1918 and was joined by Lucile Council in 1921, who consequently became her work and life partner. Council was born in Williamsville, Illinois.\n\nTheir landscape design works include:\n\nThe works of Florence Yoch and Lucile Council are documented in the book \"Landscaping the American dream: the gardens and film sets of Florence Yoch, 1890-1972\".\n\nLos Mochis Sinaloa, Mexico. Benjamin Francis Johnston garden\n"}
{"id": "37264026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37264026", "title": "Grace Dunham", "text": "Grace Dunham\n\nGrace Dunham ( ; born January 28, 1992) is an American writer and activist. Dunham appeared in the independent film \"Tiny Furniture\" (2010), which was written and directed by their older sister, filmmaker and actress Lena Dunham. Dunham is non-binary.\n\nDunham was born and raised in New York City. Dunham's mother, Laurie Simmons, is an artist and photographer, and their father, Carroll Dunham, is a painter. Dunham's older sister, Lena, is the creator and star of the HBO series \"Girls\".\n\nDunham attended St. Ann's School in New York City. They wrote for the school newspaper and yearbook and spoke at the graduation. During the senior year of high school, they came out as gay to their sister Lena. Dunham graduated from Brown University in May 2014 with a degree in urban studies.\n\nAs a high school student in 2009, Dunham received the Poetry Society of America's Louise Louis/Emily F. Bourne Student Poetry Award for the poem \"Twin Oaks\", which was judged for the competition by American poet Matthew Rohrer.\n\nDunham was a contributing writer for the student weekly \"The College Hill Independent\" in Providence, Rhode Island.\n\nDunham is involved in a collaborative relationship with transgender activist Reina Gosset; their work together includes public speaking, writing and performance. \n\nDunham has contributed articles to \"The New Yorker\", and catalog essays for \"Transgender Hirstory in 99 Objects: Legends and Mythologies\" at the ONE National Gay & Lesbian Archives, \"UNCOUNTED: Call & Response\" at Vienna Secession, and Nicole Eisenman's AL-UGH-ORIES at the New Museum, amongst others. In November 2015 Dunham interviewed transgender rights activist Janet Mock for Buzzfeed's \"Women Of The Hour\" podcast.\n\nIn 2015, Dunham presented the talk \"Why Am I Valuable?\" during a panel at the Frieze Art Fair in New York. The talk begins: In 2016, Dunham's first collection of poetry and short essays titled \"The Fool\" was published. The publication is a free, online-only \"web-book\" published by Curse of Cherifa.\n\nDunham's first film appearance was in the 2006 short \"Dealing\" as June, a 13-year-old art dealer. \"Dealing\" was written and directed by Dunham's older sister, Lena.\n\nDunham later starred in the 2010 feature film \"Tiny Furniture\" as Nadine, the younger sister of Aura, played by Lena, who also wrote and directed the film. \"Tiny Furniture\", which also featured Lena and Grace's real-life mother Laurie Simmons, was shot at the family's actual home in New York's Tribeca neighborhood and the three characters portrayed by Grace, Lena, and their mother are based loosely on themselves.\n\nDunham stars as Junior in the forthcoming film \"Happy Birthday, Marsha!\" about the transgender activists Marsha P. Johnson and Sylvia Rivera in the hours before the Stonewall riots. Dunham also appeared in artist A.K. Burns' multi-channel video installation \"A Smeary Spot\".\n\nPassages in Lena's memoir \"Not That Kind of Girl\", which recount childhood interactions between then seven-year-old Lena and then one-year-old Grace, attracted controversy when some commentators perceived them to be overly sexual. Experts described these passages as either too ambiguous to judge, or as describing behavior consistent with normal childhood development. Grace publicly rejected claims by media commentators that the behavior was harmful.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10493886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10493886", "title": "Hans Van Laethem", "text": "Hans Van Laethem\n\nHans Van Laethem (February 7, 1960) is the town crier of Ninove and former reigning World, European and Belgian champion of town crying.\n\nVan Laethem started his career as town crier in 1987. In 2000, Van Laethem became runner up in the World Town Crier Championships. In 2002, Van Laethem became European champion, which led to him being given the honor of organizing the 2004 European Championships in his home town Ninove. In 2006. he won another European title.\n\nIn 2005, he became world champion in Maryborough, Queensland, performing in his native language Dutch instead of in English.\n\nIn 2005, Van Laethem was made an honorary citizen of Ninove.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36093123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36093123", "title": "Hutheesing family", "text": "Hutheesing family\n\nThe Hutheesing family () is an old Jain family from Ahmedabad, Gujarat. Several temples and charitable institutions in Ahmedabad have been built or founded by members of this mercantile family. Krishna Hutheesing, a sister of Jawaharlal Nehru, was a member of this family by marriage.\n\nThe family has a known history of over 250 years. In the mid-1700s, the Mughal empire was in decline, rebellions were breaking out in several places, and general lawlessness prevailed in much of northern India. The traditional trade routes between northern India and central Asia were unworkable. Meanwhile, the European powers had established their trading interests on the coast and this presented a lucrative and safe business opportunity. To meet the changing dynamics of the era, some members of the Jain trading community moved from Osian in the Marwar region of Rajasthan to Khambhat (Cambay) in Gujarat, which was at that time a major port city and a center of the European trade. The progenitors of the Hutheesing family were among the immigrants. \n\nInitially, the wealthy and industrious immigrants were not unwelcome. They ingratiated themselves with the Mughal-appointed governors of Khambhat and prospered to the extent that they soon became the owners of a few ships that sailed abroad for trade. However, this happy situation was not to last long. The group from Osian became involved in certain intrigues and their ships were consequently confiscated by the Mughal authorities. They also lost the goodwill of the local authorities and were unable to carry on their trade in the atmosphere of suspicion and hostility. Ultimately, they abandoned direct involvement with international trade and moved inland, to the large trading city of Ahmedabad, which was ruled by a rival (albeit Mughal-appointed) satrap. Here they became prosperous traders.\n\nIn Ahmedabad, the community prospered in trade. Perhaps the most prosperous trader among them was Hutheesing, son of Kesrising, who amassed a colossal fortune. Hutheesing was the grandson of one of the men who emigrated from Osian to Khambhat and then to Ahmedabad. He lived during the first half of the 19th century. His descendants (both adopted and biological) took his first name as their surname and came to be known as the \"Hutheesing family.\"\n\nHutheesing Kesarising was married three times but neither his first wife nor his second wife produced a living male heir, although there were at least two living daughters and one boy who lived to the age of five, besides some miscarriages and other infant deaths. His third wife (who was much younger than him) produced no child at all for several years after their marriage. This third wife was named Harkunwar and she hailed from the village of Ghogha near Bhavnagar. The two daughters were married at a young age, per the custom of that era, and sent away to live in their marital homes. Thereafter, in keeping with Indian tradition, the couple adopted the three sons of Hutheesing's brother, Dolabhai. The boys were named Jaisingbhai, Maganbhai and Mulchandbhai. Ironically, within a couple of years after the adoptions, Harkunwar finally became pregnant and gave birth to a son, whom they named Umabhai.\n\nAccording to Jain custom and society, their biological son was treated just like his adopted brothers; before his death, Hutheesing portioned out his wealth in equal measure to all his sons, and at his death, it was the eldest adopted boy, Jaising, who officiated at his funeral as his eldest son.\n\nAfter the death of Seth Hutheesing, his sons carried on the family's trading business harmoniously, while his wife, Harkunwar Bai, devoted herself to prayer and charities. The entire family continued to live together in their palatial residence, \"Hutheesing-ni-Vadi.\" This was a massive \"haveli\" (Indian-style mansion-with-courtyards) built by Huteesing just outside the gates of the old walled city of Amedabad. The mansion stood within a large compound, which contained walled gardens, an orchard, mews and small houses for servants and dependents. \n\nHutheesing had intended to build a grand Jain temple within this compound. Before his death, Hutheesing and Harkunwar had performed the required religious ceremonies and jointly laid the symbolic \"first stone\" of the temple. Hutheesing had finalized the layout and plan of the temple and was in the process of arranging finances and engaging craftsmen. The task of bringing his pious dream to fruition fell upon Harkunwar and her sons. It was Harkunwar who supervised the construction of the 52-Jinalaya Hutheesing Jain Temple within the compound of her house. The temple took several years to be built. It is constructed of stone in the traditional way, without steel, cement or mortar. It is richly ornamented with intricate and beautiful stone carvings and is now regarded as one of the architectural treasures of the city. It houses 238 stone images, 83 metal images and 21 \"yantras.\" The \"Pratishtha\" (consecration) of the temple was conducted by Shantisagar Suri, a famous saint. The festivities were attended by as many as 400,000 people.\n\nWhen the construction of the Hutheesing Jain temple was nearing completion, and preparations were afoot for its grand consecration, the need was felt for a suitable Dharamshala to accommodate the expected visitors. It occurred to Harkunwar Bai that a \"Derasar\" or Jain monastery should be built, which would accommodate the visitors in the first instance and then serve as a center of the Jain faith for all time to come. she decided to build a \"Derasar,\" or Jain monastery in the city. The presence of such an institution would add luster and virtue to the beauty of the temple. She mentioned her wishes to her sons, and they readily agreed that it was an excellent idea, and the \"Dharmanath Derasar\" was duly built and endowed by them, and its consecration was held a couple of days before the consecration of the temple. The \"Derasar\" is situated in the Nisha Pol precinct of Ahmedabad, in the near vicinity of the Hutheesing temple.\n\nHarkunvar Bai, who had been much younger than her husband, lived to a ripe old age. After the death of her husband, as a pious Indian widow, she wore only plain white cotton sarees for the rest of her life, entirely gave up all jewelry and ornamentation, and spent a large portion of her waking hours in prayer. She later built two further temples, on a smaller scale, within one kilometer from her house in Ahmedabad. These are the \"Sambhavnath\" and \"Chintamani Parshvanath\" temples in the Zaveriwad neighbourhood of Ahmedabad. She commissioned the construction of a \"Gaushala\" or animal shelter for aged cattle and other animals. She constructed \"Piaos\" and \"Sada-varta\" shelters near certain Jain temples, where basic food, cool water and a shady shelter were provided free to pilgrims and devotees. She constructed and endowed a \"Dharamshala,\" or free pilgrims' inn, at Samet Shikhar, a center of Jain pilgrimage located in distant Jharkhand. She organized and funded pilgrimages for poor Jain families of Ahmedabad to travel to Samet Shikhar. She donated funds towards building the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. Her pious charities, good works and personal austerity made her a figure of veneration among the people of Ahmedabad. \n\nHe also built a school for girls Maganlal Karamchand Girls' School in Ahmedabad, when general public was still not in favor of female education.\n\nThe family trade included wooden furniture in association with Lockwood de Forest, which was a rage in the US then, and kundan jewellery to Tiffany's in the US.\nAhmedabad Wood Carving Company was set up in 1881 by an American interior decorator, Lockwood de Forest, in association with Maganbhai Hutheesing to export wooden furniture, carved doors, cabinets, picture frames etc.\n\nThe family became known for its marital alliances. They are related to the Kasturbhai Lalbhai family as well as Jawaharlal Nehru. Krishna Nehru Hutheesing was married to Gunottam P. Hutheesing, (nicknamed Raja). \n\nPurushottam Hutheesing's other son Surottam P. Hutheesing was a noted indstrialist and served as Chairman of Ahmedabad Textile Mill's Association's President for year 1954-55. He was first to invite noted architect, Le Corbusier to India, who later did many works in India. The Mill Owners' Association Building and Villa Shodhan were the works assigned to him by Surottam Hutheesing\n\nAhmedabad's main art venue, Leila & Purushottam Hutheesing Visual Art Centre, as well as the Purshottambhai Maganbhai & Leila P Hutheesing Public Charitable Trust is named after Maganbhai's son Purshottambhai. He was married to Leila (Dahiben), the daughter of Lalbhai Dalpatbhai, and the sister of Kasturbhai Lalbhai. Purushottam Hutheesing's son Gunottam was married to Jawaharlal Nehru's sister Krishna Nehru Hutheesing. But in 1946 Raja Gunottam Hutheesing (INC)lost his first electoral bid for the Nagpada-Kamathipura BMC election constituency to an unknown independent Linganna Pujari (1914-1999). Pujari subsequently joined the Congress Party in 1947 at Nehruji's invitation.\n\nGunottam's sister Shrimati was married to Saumendranath Tagore, a nephew of Rabindranath Tagore. Shrimati had studied at Shantiniketan and had remained associated with it. Saumendranath Tagore became one of the founders of the Communist movement in India.\n\nRajiv Gandhi, later a prime minister of India, was born in Mumbai at the home of his uncle and aunt, Gunottam (Raja) and Krishna Hutheesing, while his parents were guests at their home located at 20 Carmichael Road in Bombay.\n\nAjit Hutheesing (1936–2017), a son of Gunottam, also lived in the home and spent many years living with Nehru in his home in Delhi. He later migrated to the US in the early 1960s and became one of the first Indians on Wall Street when he started his investment banking career. He had three sons, Nikhil, Vivek and Ravi, and three grandchildren, Kirin Hutheesing, Remy Hutheesing and Mirai Hutheesing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34565024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34565024", "title": "James McDonald (artist)", "text": "James McDonald (artist)\n\nJames Ingram McDonald (11 June 1865 – 13 April 1935) was a New Zealand painter, photographer, film-maker, museum director, cultural ambassador film censor, and promoter of Maori arts and crafts.\n\nJames McDonald was born in Tokomairiro, South Otago, New Zealand on 11 June 1865. He began painting early in his life and took art lessons as a young man in Dunedin with James Nairn, Nugent Welch and Girolamo Nerli. He continued his art studies in Melbourne, Australia, but returned to New Zealand in 1901, where he worked as a photographer. From 1905 he was a museum assistant and draughtsman in the Colonial Museum, later to become the Dominion Museum and even later the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa). He began making films about various scenic sights. At the museum he was responsible for the maintenance of the photographic collection and the production of paintings, drawings and photographs for the Dominion Museum bulletins. \nHe began to gather information about Māori tribal traditions. His films show poi dances and whai string games. He was probably the earliest known ethnographic filmmaker in New Zealand. In 1920 he filmed the gathering of the Māori tribes in Rotorua, when they welcomed the Prince of Wales, and other aspects of the royal journey. He filmed traditional skills and activities, including the make of fishing nets and traps, weaving, digging kumara camps and cooking food in a hangi. Most of his often unedited and fragmentary negatives became only known in 1986 after restoration by the New Zealand film archive.\n\nIn 1914, due to the poor health of his predecessor, J. A. Thomson, he was appointed as Interim Director of the Dominion Museum. One of his tasks was the design of the New Zealand coat of arms, for which the royal commission was awarded on 26 April 1911. He was appointed as Assistant Censor of Cinema Films in August 1918 and held this position for eight years.\n\nIn 1926 James McDonald was appointed to the board of Māori Arts, and in the same year he resigned from his posts in the museum. He moved to Tokaanu, where he helped building the Te Tuwharetoa School of Māori Arts and Crafts. Its aims were the revival of traditional art, which was in danger of being lost, and the encouragement of the Māori of Ngati Tuwharetoa to produce handicrafts for sale at home and abroad. The school received no state subsidies, so McDonald and his family suffered from considerable financial difficulties. McDonald earned mutual trust and deep respect from local Māori.\n\nHe died in Tokaanu on 13 April 1935 and was buried at Taupo cemetery. The School of Applied Arts, which he had founded, doesn't exist anymore, but many examples of McDonald's work have been preserved. Many hundreds of his photographic negatives are kept by the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa. There are prints of his works in the collections of the Alexander Turnbull Library and the Bernice P. Bishop Museum in Hawaii. The four ethnographic films he has made are preserved in the collection of the New Zealand Film Archive Nga Kaitiaki or Nga Taonga Whitiahua.\n\nOn 29 April 1891 he married Mary (May) Brabin and had three daughters with her, Marjorie, Flora and Dorothy, as well as a son, Donald Douglas. On the marriage certificate they stated his activity as an accountant, which suggests that he was not able to earn a living as an artist.\n\n"}
{"id": "27079463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27079463", "title": "James Schoppert", "text": "James Schoppert\n\nRobert James \"Jim\" Schoppert (May 28, 1947 – September 2, 1992) was an Alaska Native artist. Born in Juneau, Alaska to a father of German descent and a Tlingit ( or ) mother, Schoppert became one of the most prodigious and influential Alaska Native artists of the twentieth century. His work includes carving, painting, poetry and essays. He has been described as an innovator, that made traditional and contemporary Alaska Native works often pushing the boundaries of what was considered \"traditional\" Northwest Coast art. Throughout his career he was a spokesman for Alaska Native artists and artists in general. Having taught at the University of Alaska Fairbanks (UAF) as a guest professor and giving talks and lectures at elementary schools throughout the states of Alaska and Washington, his positive influence was spread through his work and words over the course of his career.\n\nIn 1973, Schoppert came to Anchorage for a construction job which, it turned out, was no longer available. On February 26 of that year, using the last of his money, he bought a piece of soapstone and carved an owl. He put it up for sale at the urging of his sister and was able to sell it quickly, which marked the formal beginning of his career as an artist. Understanding that knowledge was important, he went on to earn a BFA from the University of Alaska Anchorage and a MFA from the University of Washington. But \"his apprenticeship was with himself\" according to Steven Brown, associate curator at the Seattle Art Museum. Continuing to produce work while still an undergraduate, he won first place in the statewide \"Earth, Fire and Fiber\" juried show in 1976. This sculpture should have been an indication of things to come as it was a separation from his traditional work which would define him as an artist and create controversy and curiosity in later years. Although he created art using the traditional formline, he chose a different approach for a great deal of his work that did not neatly fit into either contemporary or Northwest Coast art. He was quoted as saying \"There is tremendous pressure for conformity from collectors and scholars, who want work that fits into the classic definition of Northwest Indian art. When things don't fit their expectations there's a raised eyebrow, and a sort of suggestion of 'What do we do with it now?'\". This mindset is what allowed Schoppert to create his most recognizable pieces which are large carved panels made of multiple planks, painted in non traditional colors and the planks rearranged to create an entirely new look and a break from traditional methods and form line. Examples of this style are seen in his works \"Teasing Eagle\" and \"Raven Opens Box of Stars\".\n\nDuring his career as an artist he also served on the state arts councils of both Alaska and Washington. He created the North Coast Indian flat design that is on the entrance to the west end of the I-90 tunnel in Seattle. There are several of his works throughout Alaska and Washington. This includes one of the last pieces he made, a large carving for the Port of Seattle to be installed at the Seattle–Tacoma International Airport.\n\nSchoppert's artwork covered a wide range of techniques such as traditional carving, abstract paintings, drawings, mask making and most notably his large carved panel pieces that are his most recognized. The wood panel pieces are also what created some controversy over whether his art was contemporary or Northwest Coastal. Schoppert learned that the Tlingit formline that was considered the traditional method was only a relatively recent development among the Northwest Indian. It was his opinion that enforcing the practices of 1850's or 1950's as the rule for all time amounted to artistic tyranny. He has been quoted as saying \"Learn the rules, then break them\". When talking about his panels, his intention was to further the art by following what he considered its natural progression. \"If Art has a Master, Imagination cracks the whip\".(1987) It is clear that he was true to his beliefs when examining his work. He went beyond the boundaries of traditional Northwest Coastal art and was a contributor to the evolution of contemporary native art.\n\nAlthough Schoppert is best known for his panels, he also produced several pieces that followed traditional methods and formline design. This is most evident in his mask making, an example of Jim using this style can be found in his mask \"Forehead Mask\" (1977) and \"Mussel Shell Rattle\" (1992). In addition he had several paintings and drawings that incorporate a Native theme, however, show no use of formline, again pushing the boundaries of what was considered \"traditional\" Northwest Coast art.\n\n\nSchoppert's final exhibition was hosted by the Anchorage Museum at Rasmuson Center seven years after he died, putting together a traveling exhibit that contained 50 pieces of art, and selected essays and poems as a tribute to a great Alaska Native artist and recognized him as transformational \"whose unique artistic expression contributed to the evolution of contemporary native art\". Sponsored by the National Museum of the American Indian, this exhibit was displayed in the Smithsonian Institution from October 3, 1999 to February 6, 2000 at the museum's George Gustav Heye Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "49641758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49641758", "title": "Johann Schmidlap", "text": "Johann Schmidlap\n\nJohann Schmidlap of Schorndorf was a 16th-century Bavarian fireworks maker and rocket pioneer. \n\nHe published a book on fireworks, \"Künstliche und rechtschaffene Fewrwerck zum Schimpff\" (\"artful and well-made fireworks for entertainment\"), printed in Nuremberg in 1561 (reprinted 1564, new edition by Katharina Gerlachin in 1590, 1591).\n\nHe may have been the first to successfully fly staged rockets, although the concept is also discussed in the work of Conrad Haas, which was a direct influence on Schmidlap.\n"}
{"id": "14655086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14655086", "title": "John Kiriakou", "text": "John Kiriakou\n\nJohn Chris Kiriakou (born August 9, 1964) is an American author and retired intelligence officer. Currently, he is a columnist with Reader Supported News and co-host of \"Loud and Clear\" on Sputnik Radio.\n\nHe was a analyst and case officer for the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), senior investigator for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, counterterrorism consultant for ABC News, and author. He was the first U.S. government official to confirm in December 2007 that waterboarding was used to interrogate al-Qaeda prisoners, which he described as torture. On October 22, 2012, Kiriakou pleaded guilty to disclosing the identity of a fellow CIA officer. He was the first CIA officer to be convicted for passing classified information to a reporter, although the reporter did not publish the name of the operative. He was sentenced to 30 months in prison on January 25, 2013, and served his term from February 28, 2013, until February 3, 2015, at the low-security Federal correctional facility near Loretto, Pennsylvania, in general population, not in the neighboring minimum security work camp that has been reported.\n\nKiriakou was born August 9, 1964, the son of elementary school educators in Sharon, Pennsylvania, and raised in nearby New Castle, Pennsylvania. Kiriakou's grandparents had immigrated from Greece. He graduated from New Castle High School in 1982 and attended George Washington University in Washington, D.C., where he earned a bachelor's degree in Middle Eastern Studies and a master's degree in Legislative Affairs.\n\nKiriakou was recruited into the CIA by a graduate school professor who had been a senior CIA official. Kiriakou spent the first eight years of his career as a Middle East analyst specializing on Iraq. He maintained a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information security clearance. He learned Arabic and from 1994-1996 he was assigned to the American Embassy in Manama, Bahrain, as an economic officer. He returned to Washington, D.C., and went back to work on Iraq until 1998 when he transferred to the CIA's Directorate of Operations. He became a counter-terrorism operations officer and worked in Athens, Greece, on Eurocommunist terrorism. In Greece, Kiriakou recruited foreign agents to spy for the United States, and was nearly assassinated by leftists. In 2000, Kiriakou returned to CIA Headquarters.\n\nFollowing the September 11 terrorist attacks, Kiriakou was named Chief of Counterterrorist Operations in Pakistan. In that position, he led a series of military raids on al-Qaeda safehouses, capturing dozens of al-Qaeda fighters. Kiriakou led a raid on the night of March 28, 2002, in Faisalabad, Pakistan, capturing Abu Zubaydah, then thought to be al-Qaeda's third-ranking official. Following a 2002-2004 domestic assignment, Kiriakou resigned from the CIA in 2004.\n\nFrom 2004 until 2008, Kiriakou worked as a senior manager in Big Four accounting firm Deloitte & Touche's competitive intelligence practice. From September 2008 until March 2009, Kiriakou was a terrorism consultant for ABC News. Following Senator John Kerry's (D-MA) ascension to the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 2009, Kiriakou became the Committee's senior investigator, focusing on the Middle East, international terrorism, piracy, and counter-narcotics issues. In 2011, he left the Committee to become managing partner of Rhodes Global Consulting, and an Arlington, Virginia-based political risk analysis firm. From April 2011 to April 2012, he resumed counter-terrorism consulting for ABC News. He speaks often at colleges and universities around the country about the CIA, terrorism, torture, and ethics in intelligence operations.\n\nOn December 10, 2007, Kiriakou gave an interview to ABC News in which he described his participation in the capture of Abu Zubaydah, who was accused of having been an aide to Osama bin Laden. Kiriakou said he did not witness his waterboarding, but he had been told by CIA associates, it had taken only a single brief instance of waterboarding to extract answers.\n\nKiriakou's accounts of Abu Zubaydah's waterboarding, and the relatively mild nature of it, were widely repeated in 2007, and paraphrased, and he became a regular guest expert on news and public affairs shows, on the topics of interrogation, and counter-terrorism.\n\nIn 2009, it was reported that Abu Zubaydah had been waterboarded at least 83 times, and that little or no useful extra information may have been gained by \"harsh methods\". Kiriakou was under the mistaken belief that Zubaydah was waterboarded only once, and even that single instance he described as a form of torture and expressed reservations about whether the value of the information was worth the damage done to the United States' reputation.\n\nKiriakou has said that he chose not to blow the whistle on torture through internal channels because he believed he \"wouldn't have gotten anywhere\" because his superiors and the congressional intelligence committees were already aware of it.\n\nKiriakou is a founding member of the Veteran Intelligence Professionals for Sanity. In September 2015, Kiriakou and 27 other members of VIPS steering group wrote a letter to the President challenging a recently published book, that claimed to rebut the report of the United States Senate Intelligence Committee on the Central Intelligence Agency's use of torture.\n\nNearly five years after the Justice Department had concluded Kiriakou committed no crime by giving his 2007 ABC interview, the CIA approached the new Obama Justice Department, already engaged in its own unprecedented crackdown on government leaks, and asked them to reopen the case. On January 23, 2012, Kiriakou was charged with disclosing classified information to journalists, including the name of a covert CIA officer and information revealing the role of another CIA employee, Deuce Martinez, in classified activities. In addition, Kiriakou was alleged to have lied to the CIA to have his book published. His lawyer was Robert Trout. Lawyer and whistleblower Jesselyn Radack helped him with the case. She had previously helped NSA official Thomas Andrews Drake in his espionage case.\n\nOn April 5, 2012, Kiriakou was indicted for one count of violating the Intelligence Identities Protection Act, three counts of violating the Espionage Act, and one count of making false statements for allegedly lying to the Publications Review Board of the CIA. On April 13, Kiriakou pleaded not guilty to all charges and was released on bail.\n\nStarting September 12, 2012, the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia conducted closed Classified Information Procedures Act hearings in Kiriakou's case. On October 22, 2012, he agreed to plead guilty to one count of passing classified information to the media thereby violating the Intelligence Identities Protection Act; his plea deal spared journalists from testifying in a trial. All other charges were dropped.\n\nOn January 25, 2013, Kiriakou was sentenced to 30 months in prison, making him the second CIA officer to be jailed for revealing classified material of CIA undercover identities, in violation of the Intelligence Identities Protection Act, after the 1985 arrest and conviction of Sharon Scranage. \"New York Times\" reporter Scott Shane referenced the Kiriakou case when he told NPR that Obama's prosecutions of journalism-related leaking were having a chilling effect on coverage of national security issues.\n\nIn January 2013, Bruce Riedel, a former intelligence adviser to Barack Obama who turned down an offer to be considered for CIA director in 2009, sent the President a letter signed by eighteen other CIA veterans urging that the sentence be commuted.\nKiriakou received a prison \"send off\" party at an exclusive Washington, D.C., hotel hosted by political peace activists dressed in orange jumpsuits and mock prison costumes. \nOn February 28, 2013, Kiriakou began serving his term at the low-security Federal Correctional Institution, Loretto in Loretto, Pennsylvania.\nIn June 2013, Kiriakou wrote an open \"Letter From Loretto\" to Edward Snowden expressing his support and giving advice, including \"the most important advice that I can offer, DO NOT, under any circumstances, cooperate with the FBI\".\n\nOn July 3, 2013, Kiriakou published an open letter, on Firedoglake, warning former NSA contractor Edward Snowden to beware of being tricked by FBI officials. He warned Snowden to anticipate FBI officials wearing clandestine listening devices who may attempt to betray and entrap him into making comments that, heard out of context, would seem incriminating.\n\nOn February 3, 2015, Kiriakou was released from prison to serve three months of house arrest at his home in Arlington, Virginia. Following his release, Kiriakou said his case was not about leaking information but about exposing torture, continuing, \"and I would do it all over again.\" The journalist has now expressed interest in campaigning for prison reform.\n\nIn his writing, Kiriakou continues to strive for increased transparency in governmental agencies. His books have been praised by several members and commentators within the intelligence community, including Barry Eisler, Jane Mayer, and Daniel Ellsberg.\n\n\nThe CIA awarded Kiriakou with 10 Exceptional Performance Awards, a Sustained Superior performance Award, the Counterterrorism Service Medal, and the State Department's Meritorious Honor Award. Kiriakou won the 2012 Joe A. Callaway Award for Civic Courage, which is awarded to \"national security whistleblowers who stood up for constitutional rights and American values, at great risk to their personal and professional lives\". In November 2013, Kiriakou was awarded the \"Peacemaker of the Year\" by the Peace and Justice Center of Sonoma County. In December 2013, he received a 2013 Giraffe Hero Commendation, awarded to people who stick their necks out for the common good. In 2016, he was awarded the Sam Adams Award. Also in 2016, he was given the prestigious PEN First Amendment Award by the PEN Center USA. He was awarded the first Blueprint International Whistleblowing Prize for \"bravery and integrity in the public interest\" by the Australia-based 'Blueprint for Free Speech' think tank in 2017.\n\nIn 2014, \"Silenced\", a documentary featuring Kiriakou by James Spione was released. The film explored the US government's response to whistleblowers who disclosed covert violations of constitutional privacy and terrorism laws. The film revealed in detail the personal toll on those three who had questioned or reported crimes within the NSA, CIA, military, and other organizations. The experiences of Kiriakou, military veteran Thomas Andrews Drake and attorney Jesselyn Radack were told.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100397", "title": "Josemaría Escrivá", "text": "Josemaría Escrivá\n\nSaint Josemaría Escrivá de Balaguer y Albás (9 January 1902 – 26 June 1975) was a Roman Catholic priest from Spain who initiated Opus Dei, an organization of laypeople and priests dedicated to the teaching that everyone is called to holiness by God and that ordinary life can result in sanctity. He was canonized during 2002 by Pope John Paul II, who declared Saint Josemaría should be \"counted among the great witnesses of Christianity.\" \n\nEscrivá gained a doctorate in civil law at the Complutense University of Madrid and a doctorate in theology at the Lateran University in Rome. His principal work was the initiation, government and expansion of Opus Dei. Escrivá's best-known publication is \"The Way\", which has been translated into 43 languages and has sold several million copies.\n\nEscrivá and Opus Dei have aroused controversy, primarily concerning allegations of secrecy, elitism, cult-like practices, and political involvement with right-wing causes, such as the rule of Francisco Franco in Spain (1939–1975). After his death, his canonization attracted considerable attention and controversy, by some Catholics and the worldwide press. Several journalists who have investigated the history of Opus Dei, among them Vatican analyst John L. Allen, Jr., have argued that many of these accusations are unproven or have grown from allegations by enemies of Escrivá and his organization. Cardinal Albino Luciani (later Pope John Paul I), John Paul II, Benedict XVI, Francis, Óscar Romero, and many Catholic leaders have endorsed Escrivá's teaching concerning the universal call to holiness, the role of laity, and sanctification of ordinary work. According to Allen, among Catholics, Escrivá is \"reviled by some and venerated by millions more\".\n\nJosé María Mariano Escrivá y Albás was born to José Escrivá y Corzán and his wife, María de los Dolores Albás y Blanc on 9 January 1902, in the small town of Barbastro, in Huesca, Aragon, Spain, the second of six children and the first of two sons. José Escrivá was a merchant and a partner of a textile company which eventually became bankrupt, forcing the family to relocate during 1915 to the city of Logroño, in the northern province of La Rioja, where he worked as a clerk in a clothing store. Young Josemaría first felt that \"he had been chosen for something\", it is reported, when he saw footprints left in the snow by a monk walking barefoot.\n\nWith his father's blessing, Escrivá prepared to become a priest of the Catholic Church. He studied first in Logroño and then in Zaragoza, where he was ordained as deacon on Saturday, 20 December 1924. He was ordained a priest, also in Zaragoza, on Saturday, 28 March 1925. After a brief appointment to a rural parish in Perdiguera, he went to Madrid, the Spanish capital, during 1927 to study law at the Central University. In Madrid, Escrivá was employed as a private tutor and as a chaplain to the Foundation of Santa Isabel, which comprised the royal Convent of Santa Isabel and a school managed by the Little Sisters of the Assumption.\n\nA prayerful retreat helped him to discern more definitely what he considered to be God's will for him, and, on 2 October 1928, he \"saw\" Opus Dei (), a way by which Catholics might learn to sanctify themselves by their secular work. He founded it during 1928, and Pius XII gave it final approval during 1950. According to the decree of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints, which contains a condensed biography of Escrivá, \"[t]o this mission he gave himself totally. From the beginning his was a very wide-ranging apostolate in social environments of all kinds. He worked especially among the poor and the sick languishing in the slums and hospitals of Madrid.\"\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War, Escrivá fled from Madrid, which was controlled by the republicans, via Andorra and France, to the city of Burgos, possessed by the nationalist forces of General Francisco Franco. After the war ended during 1939 with Franco's victory, Escrivá was able to resume his studies in Madrid and complete a doctorate in law, for which he submitted a thesis on the historical jurisdiction of the Abbess of Santa María la Real de Las Huelgas.\n\nThe Priestly Society of the Holy Cross, affiliated with Opus Dei, was founded on Sunday, 14 February 1943. Escrivá relocated to Rome during 1946. The decree declaring Escrivá \"Venerable\" states that \"in 1947 and on Monday, 16 June 1950, he obtained approval of Opus Dei as an institution of pontifical right. With tireless charity and operative hope he guided the development of Opus Dei throughout the world, activating a vast mobilization of lay people ... He gave life to numerous initiatives in the work of evangelization and human welfare; he fostered vocations to the priesthood and the religious life everywhere... Above all, he devoted himself tirelessly to the task of forming the members of Opus Dei.\"\n\nAccording to some accounts, at the age of two he suffered from a disease (perhaps epilepsy) so severe that the doctors expected him to die soon, but his mother had taken him to Torreciudad, where the Aragonese locals venerated a statue of the Virgin Mary (as \"Our Lady of the Angels\"), thought to date from the 11th century. Escrivá recovered and, as the director of Opus Dei during the 1960s and 1970s, promoted and oversaw the design and construction of a major shrine at Torreciudad. The new shrine was inaugurated on 7 July 1975, soon after Escrivá's death, and to this day remains the spiritual center of Opus Dei, as well as an important destination for pilgrimage. By the time of Escrivá’s death during 1975, the members of Opus Dei numbered some 60,000 in 80 countries. As an adult, Escrivá suffered from type 1 diabetes and, according to some sources, also epilepsy.\n\nDuring 1950, Escrivá was appointed an Honorary Domestic Prelate by Pope Pius XII, which allowed him to use the title of Monsignor. During 1955, he received a doctorate of theology from the Pontifical Lateran University in Rome. He was a consultor to two Vatican congregations (the Congregation for Seminaries and Universities and the Pontifical Commission for the Authentic Interpretation of the Code of Canon Law) and an honorary member of the Pontifical Academy of Theology. The Second Vatican Council (1962–65) confirmed the importance of the universal call to holiness, the role of the laity, and the Mass as the basis of Christian life.\n\nDuring 1948 Escrivá founded the Collegium Romanum Sanctae Crucis (Roman College of the Holy Cross), Opus Dei's educational center for men, in Rome. During 1953 he founded the Collegium Romanum Sanctae Mariae (Roman College of Saint Mary) to serve the women's section (these institutions are now joined into the Pontifical University of the Holy Cross.) Escrivá also established the University of Navarre, in Pamplona, and the University of Piura (in Peru), as secular institutions affiliated with Opus Dei. Escrivá died on 26 June 1975, aged 73.\n\nThree years after Escrivá died, the then Cardinal Albino Luciani (later Pope John Paul I) celebrated the originality of his contribution to Christian spirituality.\n\nOne of the persons who knew Escrivá best was the Bishop of Madrid, where Opus Dei was initiated, Bishop Leopoldo Eijo y Garay, for Escrivá would visit and report to him quite frequently and the two established a very strong friendship. In a 1943 report to Rome, the bishop stated: \"The distinctive notes of his character are his energy and his capacity for organization and government; with an ability to pass unnoticed. He has shown himself most obedient to the Church hierarchy -- one very special hallmark of his priestly work is the way he fosters, in speech and in writing, in public and in private, love for Holy Mother Church and for the Roman Pontiff.\" Bishop Eijo y Garay wrote to the Jesuit Provincial of Toledo, Carlos Gomez Martinho, S.J. during 1941: \"Fr. Escrivá is an exemplary priest, chosen by God for apostolic enterprises; humble, prudent, self-sacrificing in work, docile to his bishop, of outstanding intelligence and with a very solid spiritual and doctrinal formation.\" Eijo y Garay told an officer of the Falange that \"[T]o think that Fr. Josemaría Escrivá is capable of creating anything secret is absurd. He is as frank and open as a child!\" \n\nViktor Frankl, an Austrian psychiatrist and neurologist, founder of \"logotherapy\", and a Nazi concentration camp survivor, met Escrivá in Rome during 1970 and later wrote of \"the refreshing serenity which emanated from him and warmed the whole conversation\", and \"the unbelievable rhythm\" with which his thought flowed, and finally \"his amazing capacity\" for getting into \"immediate contact\" with those with whom he was speaking. Frankl went on: \"Escrivá evidently lived totally in the present moment, he opened out to it completely, and gave himself entirely to it.\"\n\nAccording to Álvaro del Portillo, who was Escrivá's closest collaborator for many years, there was one basic quality of Escrivá \"that pervaded everything else: his dedication to God, and to all souls for God's sake; his constant readiness to correspond generously to the will of God.\" Pope Paul VI summarized his opinion of what he termed the \"extraordinariness\" of Escrivá's sanctity in this way: \"He is one of those men who has received the most charisms (supernatural gifts) and have corresponded most generously to them.\"\n\n\"The first impression one gets from watching Escrivá 'live'\", John L. Allen, Jr. writes after watching some movies on the founder of Opus Dei during 2005, \"is his effervescence, his keen sense of humor. He cracks jokes, makes faces, roams the stage, and generally leaves his audience in stitches in off-the-cuff responses to questions from people in the crowd.\"\n\nCritics, such as Spanish architect Miguel Fisac, who was one of the earliest members of Opus Dei and who associated with Escrivá for nearly twenty years before ending his relation with Escrivá and Opus Dei, have given a very different description of Escrivá as a pious but vain, secretive, and ambitious man, given to private displays of violent temper, and who demonstrated little charity towards others or genuine concern for the poor. According to British journalist Giles Tremlett, \"biographies of Escrivá have produced conflicting visions of the saint as either a loving, caring charismatic person or a mean-spirited, manipulative egoist\". French historian Édouard de Blaye has referred to Escrivá as a \"mixture of mysticism and ambition\".\n\nOn the centennial of Escrivá's birthday, Cardinal Ratzinger (who became Pope Benedict XVI) commented: \"I have always been impressed by Josemaría Escrivá's explanation of the name 'Opus Dei': an explanation ... gives us an idea of the founder's spiritual profile. Escrivá knew he had to found something, but he was also conscious that what he was founding was not his own work, that he himself did not invent anything and that the Lord was merely making use of him. So it was not his work, but Opus Dei (God's Work). [This] gives us to understand that he was in a permanent dialogue, a real contact with the One who created us and works for us and with us... If therefore St Josemaría speaks of the common vocation to holiness, it seems to me that he is basically drawing on his own personal experience, not of having done incredible things himself, but of having let God work. Therefore a renewal, a force for good was born in the world even if human weaknesses will always remain.\"\n\nIn his canonization homily, Pope John Paul II described Escrivá as \"a master in the practice of prayer, which he considered to be an extraordinary 'weapon' to redeem the world...It is not a paradox but a perennial truth; the fruitfulness of the apostolate lies above all in prayer and in intense and constant sacramental life.\" In John Paul II's \"Decree of Canonization\", he refers to the five brief prayers or aspirations of Escrivá through which \"one can trace the entire life story of Blessed Josemaría Escrivá. He was barely sixteen when he began to recite the first two aspirations [\"Domine, ut videam!\", Lord, that I might see! and \"Domina, ut sit!\", Lady, that it might be!], as soon as he had the first inklings of God's call. They expressed the burning desire of his heart: to see what God was asking of him, so that he might do it without delay, lovingly fulfilling the Lord's will. The third aspiration [\"Omnes cum Petro ad Iesum per Mariam!\", All together with Peter to Jesus through Mary!] appears frequently in his writings as a young priest and shows how his zeal to win souls for God went hand in hand with both a firm determination to be faithful to the Church and an ardent devotion to Mary, the Virgin Mother of God. \"Regnare Christum volumus!\" We want Christ to reign!: these words aptly express his constant pastoral concern to spread among all men and women the call to share, through Christ, in the dignity of God's children. God's sons and daughters should live for the purpose, to serve Him alone: \"Deo omnis gloria!\" All the glory to God!\"\n\nDuring the thanksgiving Mass for the canonization of St. Josemaría, John Paul II, said: \"In the Founder of Opus Dei, there is an extraordinary love for the will of God. There exists a sure criterion of holiness: fidelity in accomplishing the divine will down to the last consequences. For each one of us the Lord has a plan, to each he entrusts a mission on earth. The saint could not even conceive of himself outside of God's plan. He lived only to achieve it. St Josemaría was chosen by the Lord to announce the universal call to holiness and to point out that daily life and ordinary activities are a path to holiness. One could say that he was the saint of ordinary life.\"\n\nNot all Catholic commentators, however, were impressed equally by Escrivá's spirituality. For instance, the Swiss theologian Hans Urs von Balthasar wrote in an article of 1963 that Escrivá's \"The Way\" provided an \"insufficient spirituality\" to sustain a religious organization and that the book was hardly more than \"a little Spanish manual for advanced Boy Scouts\". Von Balthasar also questioned the attitudes towards prayer described by \"The Way\", declaring that Escrivá's use of prayer \nVon Balthasar repeated his negative evaluation of \"The Way\" during a television interview during 1984.\n\nSimilar criticism of Escrivá's spirituality has been stated by other commentators: for instance, according to Kenneth L. Woodward, a journalist who specializes in articles about the Catholic Church, \"to judge by his writings alone, Escrivá's was an unexceptional spirit, derivative and often banal in his thoughts, personally inspiring, perhaps, but devoid of original insights\", whose book \"The Way\" reveals \"a remarkable narrowness of mind, weariness of human sexuality, and artlessness of expression.\"\n\nEscrivá conceived the Mass as the \"Source and summit of the Christian's interior life,\" a terminology which was later used by the Second Vatican Council. According to Giovanni Battista Re, Prefect of the Congregation for Bishops, \"St. Josemaría strove with all his strength to make the Eucharist the center of his life... For him, Jesus was not an example to imitate from afar, an abstract moral ideal, but \"his Jesus\", a person we should live alongside continuously.\" \n\nEscrivá strove to obey whatever was indicated by the competent authority regarding the celebration of Mass and \"[h]e took all necessary steps to ensure that the prescriptions of Vatican II, notably in the area of the liturgy, were applied within Opus Dei.\" As his prayer was much integrated with traditional liturgy, Escrivá found the transition difficult and asked Echevarría to help him with respect to the new rites. Although he missed the practices of the old rites, especially some gestures such as the kissing of the paten (a small plate, usually made of silver or gold, used to hold Eucharistic bread), he prohibited his devotees to ask for any dispensation for him \"out of a spirit of obedience to ecclesiastical norms... He has decided to show his love for the liturgy through the new rite\", commented Echevarría. However, when Msgr. Annibale Bugnini, Secretary of the Consilium for the Implementation of the Constitution on the Liturgy, learned of Escrivá's difficulties, he granted Escrivá the possibility of celebrating the Mass using the old rite. Whenever Escrivá celebrated this rite, he did so only in the presence of one Mass server.\n\nMonsignor Vladimir Felzmann, a priest who worked as Escrivá's personal assistant before quitting Opus Dei during 1981, claimed in an interview for \"Newsweek\" that Escrivá was so distraught by the reforms introduced by the Second Vatican Council that he and his deputy, Álvaro del Portillo, \"went to Greece in 1967 to see if [they] could bring Opus Dei into the Greek Orthodox Church. Escrivá thought the [Catholic] church was a shambles and that the Orthodox might be the salvation of himself and of Opus Dei as the faithful remnant.\" Felzmann claims that Escrivá soon abandoned those plans as impracticable. Monsignor Flavio Capucci, a member of Opus Dei and the postulator of the cause for Escrivá's canonization, denies that Escrivá ever contemplated quitting the Catholic Church. This was also denied by the information office of Opus Dei, which stated that Escrivá's visit to Greece during 1966 was done in order to analyze the convenience of organizing Opus Dei in that country, and that Escrivá even brought back icons as presents for Pope Paul VI and Monsignor Angelo Dell'Acqua (then the substitute to the Vatican Secretary of State), whom he had informed of the visit beforehand.\n\nEscrivá taught that \"joy has its roots in the form of a cross\", and that \"suffering is the touchstone of love\", convictions which were represented in his own life. He practiced corporal mortification personally and recommended it to others in Opus Dei. In particular, his enthusiasm for the practice of self-flagellation has attracted controversy, with critics quoting testimonies about Escrivá whipping himself furiously until the walls of his cubicle were speckled with blood. Both the practice of self-mortification as a form of penance, and the conviction that suffering can help a person to acquire sanctity, have ample precedent in Catholic teaching and practice. Referring to Escrivá, John Paul II stated in \"Christifideles omnes\":\n\nPope John Paul II stated on Sunday, 6 October 2002, after the Angelus greetings: \"Love for our Lady is a constant characteristic of the life of Josemaría Escrivá and is an eminent part of the legacy that he left to his spiritual sons and daughters.\" The Pope also said that \"St. Josemaría wrote a beautiful small book called \"The Holy Rosary\" which presents spiritual childhood, a real disposition of spirit of those who wish to attain total abandonment to the divine will\". \n\nWhen Escrivá was 10 or 11 years old, he already had the habit of carrying the rosary in his pocket. As a priest, he would ordinarily end his homilies and his personal prayer with a conversation with the Blessed Virgin. He instructed that all rooms in the offices of Opus Dei should have an image of the Virgin. He encouraged his spiritual children to greet these images when they entered a room. He encouraged a Marian apostolate, preaching that \"To Jesus we go and to Him we return through Mary\". While looking at a picture of the Virgin of Guadalupe giving a rose to San Juan Diego, he commented: \"I would like to die that way.\" On 26 June 1975, after entering his work room, which had a painting of the Virgin of Guadalupe, he slumped on the floor and died.\n\n\"Escrivá de Balaguer was a very human saint\", preached John Paul II. \"All those who met him, whatever their culture or social status, felt he was a father, totally devoted to serving others, for he was convinced that every soul is a marvellous treasure; indeed, every person is worth all of Christ's Blood. This attitude of service is obvious in his dedication to his priestly ministry and in the magnanimity with which he started so many works of evangelization and human advancement for the poorest persons.\"\n\nFormer numerary María del Carmen Tapia (born 1925), who worked with Escrivá for 18 years inside the organization, seven as his secretary, wrote in her book, \"Beyond the Threshold: A Life in Opus Dei\", that Escrivá often became angry, and that as secretary in charge of recording his words and actions, she was not allowed to record anything negative that she witnessed. She claims she was subjected to abusive words from Escrivá, who called her filthy names, and then screamed during this meeting with both men and women present, upbraiding a member who helped Tapia send letters. She was kept prisoner in the headquarters of Opus Dei in Rome from November 1965 until March 1966. \"I was held completely deprived of any outside contact with the absolute prohibition to go out for any reason or receive or make telephone calls or to write or receive letters. Nor could I go out for the so-called weekly walk or the monthly excursion. I was a prisoner.\"\n\nHowever, some of his devotees claim that, through him, Opus Dei has been able to better the quality of life of many women, and refer to his respect for women and his interest in improving their lives. Historian Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, a Catholic convert, asserted that \"Opus Dei has an enviable record of educating the poor and supporting women, whether single or married, in any occupation they choose.\"\n\nOpus Dei's founder modified his name in several ways over the course of his life. In the Church records of the cathedral at Barbastro, he appears as having been baptized four days after birth with the name José María Julián Mariano, and his surname was spelled Escriba. As early as his school days, José Escrivá had \"adopted the rather more distinguished version spelled with a \"v\" rather than a \"b.\" His name is spelled Escrivá in the memento of his first Mass. According to critics like Luis Carandell and Michael Walsh a former Jesuit priest, he also adopted the use of the conjunction \"y\" (\"and\") joining his father's and mother's surnames (\"Escrivá y Albás\"), a usage which he claims is associated with aristocratic families, even though that has been the legal naming format in Spain since 1870.\n\nOn 16 June 1940, the Spanish \"Boletín Oficial del Estado\" (\"Official State Bulletin\") records that Escrivá requested of the government that he be permitted to change his \"first surname so that it will be written Escrivá de Balaguer\". He justified the petition on the grounds that \"the name Escrivá is common in the east coast and in Catalonia, leading to harmful and annoying confusion\". On 20 June 1943, when he was 41 years old, the registry book of the Barbastro cathedral and the baptismal certificate of José María were annotated to represent \"that the surname Escriba was changed to Escrivá de Balaguer\". Balaguer is the name of the town in Catalonia from which Escrivá's paternal family derived.\n\nOne of the earliest members of Opus Dei, and a friend for many years, the architect Miguel Fisac, who later quit Opus Dei, said that Escrivá found it embarrassing to have his father's family name since his father's company became bankrupt, that he had a \"great affection for the aristocracy\", and that, when Escrivá was a chaplain at the Foundation of Santa Isabel in Madrid, he would often meet aristocratic visitors who would ask, upon learning that his name was Escrivá, whether he belonged to the noble Escrivá de Romaní family, only to ignore him when they learned that he did not. According to Vásquez de Prada, a writer, Opus Dei member, and official biographer who produced a three-volume biography of Escrivá, the act had nothing to do with ambition but was motivated rather by fairness and loyalty to his family. The main problem is that in Spanish the letters \"b\" and \"v\" are pronounced in the same way and therefore bureaucrats and clerics had made mistakes in transcribing the Escrivá family name in some official documents throughout the generations. Defenders of Escrivá have also argued that the addition of \"de Balaguer\" corresponded to a practice adopted by many Spanish families that felt a need to distinguish themselves from others with the same surname but proceeding from different regions and consequently having different histories.\n\nEscrivá's younger brother Santiago stated that his brother \"loved the members of his family\" and took good care of them. When their father died, he says, Escrivá told their mother that \"she should stay calm, because he will always take care of us. And he fulfilled this promise.\" Escrivá would find time in his busy schedule to chat and take a walk with his younger brother, acting like a father towards him. When the family transferred to Madrid, he obeyed the instructions of their father that he obtain a doctorate in Law. \"Thanks to his docility to this advice\", says Santiago, \"he was able to support the family by giving classes in Law, and with this he acquired a juridical mentality ... which would later be so necessary to do Opus Dei.\" Monsignor Escrivá also modified his first name. From José María, he changed it to the original Josemaría. Biographers state, that around 1935 [age 33], \"he joined his first two names because his single love for the Virgin Mary and Saint Joseph were equally inseparable\".\n\nMany of his contemporaries recount the tendency of Escrivá to preach about patriotism as opposed to nationalism.\n\nCritics have alleged that Escrivá personally, as well as the organization of Opus Dei, were associated originally with the ideology of \"National Catholicism\", particularly during the Spanish Civil War and during the years immediately after it, and that they were therefore also closely associated with the authoritarian regime of General Franco. According to Catalan sociologist Joan Estruch:\n\nEstruch cites, for instance, the fact that the first edition of Escrivá's \"The Way\", finished in Burgos and published in Valencia during 1939, had the dateline \"Año de la Victoria\" (\"Year of the Victory\"), referring to Franco's military triumph over the Republican forces in the civil war, as well as a prologue by a pro-Franco bishop, Msgr. Xavier Lauzurica, which ended with the admonition to the reader to \"always stay vigilant and alert, because the enemy does not sleep. If you make these maxims your life, you will be a perfect imitator of Jesus Christ and a gentleman without blemish. And with Christs like you Spain will return to the old grandeur of its saints, wise men, and heroes.\" Escrivá preached personally to General Franco and his family during a week-long spiritual retreat at the Pardo Palace (Franco's official residence) in April 1946.\n\nVittorio Messori claims that the ties between Escrivá and Francoism are part of a black legend propagated against Escrivá and Opus Dei. Allen states that based on his research Escrivá could not be said to be \"pro-Franco\" (for which he was criticized for not joining other Catholics in openly praising Franco) nor \"anti-Franco\" (for which he was criticized for not being \"pro-democracy\"). According to Allen, there is no statement from Escrivá for or against Franco. Escrivá's devotees and some historians have emphasized his personal effort to avoid partiality in politics. Professor Peter Berglar, a German historian, asserts that Franco's falangists suspected Escrivá of \"internationalism, anti-Spainism and Freemasonry\" and that during \"the first decade of Franco's regime, Opus Dei and Escrivá were attacked with perseverance bordering on fanaticism, not by enemies, but by supporters of the new Spanish State. Escrivá was even reported to the \"Tribunal for the Fight against Freemasonry\"\".\n\nEscrivá received several awards:\n\nSome biographers have said that Escrivá did not seek these awards, that they were nevertheless granted to him, that he accepted them due to charity to those who were granting these, and that he did not give the slightest importance to these awards. Journalist Luis Carandell, however, recounts testimonies about how members of Opus Dei paid for the insignia of the Grand Cross of Charles III to be made from gold, only to have Escrivá angrily reject it and demand instead one encrusted with diamonds. Carandell holds that this episode was part of a larger pattern in Escrivá's life of ambition for social prestige and the trappings of wealth. Sympathetic biographers, however, insist that Escrivá taught that material things are good, but that people should not get attached to them and should serve only God. It is reported that he declared that \"he has most who needs least\" and that it took only 10 minutes to gather his possessions after his death.\n\nIn addition to the questions raised about the depth of Escrivá's spirituality and theological thinking, about his purported habits of secretiveness and elitism (although, for the most part, Opus Dei faithful belong to the middle-to-low levels of society, in terms of education, income, and social status), about his alleged bad temper and ambition for social status and worldly luxuries, several other specific aspects of Escrivá's life and work have generated some criticism, particularly regarding his canonization by the Catholic Church. These sources of criticism include his alleged private statements in defense of Adolf Hitler, collaboration by members of Opus Dei with right-wing political causes (especially during General Francisco Franco's dictatorship in Spain), Escrivá's request for the rehabilitation in his favor of an aristocratic title, and allegations that he maintained bad relations with other Catholic officials, of whom he could be very critical in private.\n\nDuring Escrivá's beatification process, Monsignor Vladimir Felzmann, who had been Escrivá's personal assistant before Felzmann quit Opus Dei and became a priest of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Westminster and an aide to Cardinal Basil Hume, sent several letters to Fr. Flavio Capucci, the postulator (i.e., chief promoter) of Escrivá's cause. In his letters, Msgr. Felzmann claimed that, during 1967 or 1968, during the intermission to a World War II-themed movie, Escrivá had said to him \"Vlad, Hitler couldn't have been such a bad person. He couldn't have killed six million. It couldn't have been more than four million\". Felzmann later explained that those remarks should be regarded in the context of Catholic anti-communism in Spain, emphasizing that during 1941 all of the male members of Opus Dei (who then numbered about fifty) offered to join the \"Blue Division\", a group of Spaniard volunteers who joined the German forces in their fight against the Soviet Army, along the eastern front. Another phrase that has been attributed to Escrivá by some of his critics is \"Hitler against the Jews, Hitler against the Slavs, means Hitler against Communism\".\n\nÁlvaro del Portillo, who succeeded Escrivá as the director of Opus Dei, declared that any claims that Escrivá endorsed Hitler were \"a patent falsehood\" and part of \"a slanderous campaign\". He and others have stated that Escrivá regarded Hitler as a \"pagan\", a \"racist\", and a \"tyrant\". (See Opus Dei and politics.)\n\nOne of the most controversial accusations against Escrivá is that he and Opus Dei were active in bolstering far-right regimes, especially the dictatorship of Francisco Franco in Spain. After 1957, several members of Opus Dei served as ministers in Franco's government. In particular, the \"technocrats\" most associated with the \"Spanish miracle\" of the 1960s were members of Opus Dei: Alberto Ullastres, Mariano Navarro Rubio, Gregorio López-Bravo, Laureano López Rodó, Juan José Espinosa, and Faustino García-Moncó. Most of them came to the government with the patronage of Admiral Luis Carrero Blanco who, though not a member of Opus Dei himself, was reportedly quite sympathetic to the organization and its values and who, as Franco grew older, increasingly came to exercise the day-to-day control of the Spanish government.\n\nAccording to journalist Luis Carandell, when Ullastres and Navarro Rubio were first appointed to the government during 1957, Escrivá gleefully exclaimed \"They have made us ministers!\" something which Opus Dei has officially denied. On 23 May 1958, Escrivá sent a letter to Franco, which said, in part:\n\nDuring 1963, Swiss theologian Hans Urs von Balthasar, also a Catholic, wrote a scathing critique of Escrivá's spirituality, describing Escrivá's method of religion as a form of \"integrism\" (also called \"Catholic integralism\"), stating \"despite the affirmations of the members of Opus Dei that they are free in their political options, it is undeniable that its foundation is marked by Francoism, that that is the 'law within which it has been formed'\". In another essay, published the next year, von Balthasar characterized Opus Dei as \"an integrist concentration of power within the Church\" and the main motivation of integrism as \"imposing the spiritual with worldly means\".\n\nDuring 1979, von Balthasar distanced himself from a newspaper attack on Opus Dei which had cited his earlier accusations of integrism. He wrote in a personal letter to the Prelature, sent also to the \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\", that \"because of my lack of concrete information, I am not able to give an informed opinion about Opus Dei today. On the other hand, one thing strikes me as obvious: many of the criticisms levelled against the movement, including those of your own journal concerning the religious instruction given by Opus Dei members, seem to me to be false and anti-clerical.\" Von Balthasar maintained his unfavourable judgment of Escrivá's spirituality and repeated it in a television interview during 1984, but he did not renew his criticism of Opus Dei as an organization.\n\nIn response to the accusations of \"integrism\", Escrivá declared that, \"Opus Dei is neither on the left nor on the right nor in the centre\" and that \"as regards religious liberty, from its foundation Opus Dei has never practised discrimination of any kind.\" Opus Dei officials state that individual members are free to choose any political affiliation, emphasizing that among its members were also two important people of the monarchist political opposition of the 1970s in Spain: the writer Rafael Calvo Serer, who was forced into exile by Franco's regime, and the journalist Antonio Fontán, who became the first president of the Senate after the transition to democracy.\n\nThe alleged involvement of Opus Dei in Latin American politics has also been a topic of debate. According to US journalist Penny Lernoux, the 1966 military coup in Argentina occurred soon after its leader, General Juan Carlos Onganía, attended a retreat sponsored by Opus Dei. During his 1974 visit to Latin America, Escrivá visited Chile. This visit occurred nine months after the coup d'état in Chile that deposed Marxist president Salvador Allende and installed a right-wing military dictatorship, directed by General Augusto Pinochet. Critics have charged that Opus Dei members endorsed Pinochet's coup and then had a role in the \"Miracle of Chile\" of the 1980s similar to that of the \"technocrats\" during the Spanish Miracle of the 1960s. However, among the major right-wing politicians, only Joaquín Lavín (who did not occupy public office under Pinochet) has been unequivocally identified as a member of Opus Dei. Another member of Opus Dei, Jorge Sabag Villalobos, belongs to a centre-left party that opposed Pinochet's regime.\n\nPeter Berglar, a German historian and member of Opus Dei, has written that connecting Opus Dei with fascist regimes is a \"gross slander\". Journalist Noam Friedlander states that allegations about Opus Dei involvement with the Pinochet regime are \"unproven tales.\" Several of Escrivá's collaborators stated that he actually despised dictatorships.\n\nJohn Allen has written that Escrivá was neither anti-Franco nor pro-Franco. Some critics of Opus Dei, such as Miguel Fisac and Damian Thompson, have argued that the group has always sought \"advancement not only of its message but also of its interests\", and that it has consistently courted those with power and influence, without maintaining a coherent political ideology.\n\nAnother source of controversy about Escrivá was the fact that, during 1968, he requested and received from the Spanish Ministry of Justice the rehabilitation in his favor of the aristocratic title of Marquess of Peralta. According to the official \"Guía de grandezas y títulos del reino\" (\"Guide to the grandeeships and titles of the realm\"), the title of Marquess had originally been granted during 1718 to Tomás de Peralta, minister of state, justice and war for the Kingdom of Naples, by Archduke Charles of Austria. Until 1715, Archduke Charles had been, as \"Charles III\", a pretender to the Spanish throne (\"see\" War of Spanish Succession), and from 1711 until 1740 he ruled as Holy Roman Emperor and King of Naples.\n\nEscrivá's successful petition of a title of nobility has aroused controversy not only because it might seem at odds with the humility befitting a Catholic priest, but also because the same title of Marquess of Peralta had been rehabilitated during 1883 by Pope Leo XIII and King Alfonso XII in favor of a man to whom Escrivá had no male-line family association: the Costa Rican diplomat Manuel María de Peralta y Alfaro (1847–1930). On that occasion, the documents ordering the rehabilitation claimed that the original title had been granted during 1738 (not 1718) to Juan Tomás de Peralta y Franco de Medina, by Charles of Austria in his capacity as Holy Roman Emperor, not as pretender to the Spanish throne. Ambassador Peralta, who during 1884 had married a Belgian countess, Jehanne de Clérembault, died without children during 1930. None of his kinsmen in Costa Rica requested the transmission of the marquessate, but one of them has published an extensive genealogical study that would seem to contradict any claim by Escrivá to the title.\n\nEscrivá did not use the title of Marquess of Peralta publicly and, during 1972, he ceded it to his brother Santiago. The argument by endorsers of Escrivá that he requested the rehabilitation of the title as a favor to his family, and that it was his intention from the beginning to cede it to his brother, seems belied by the fact that, during 1968, Santiago had requested for himself the rehabilitation of a different title of nobility, the barony of San Felipe, which was not granted. According to historian Ricardo de la Cierva (a former Minister of Culture in the Spanish government) and to architect Miguel Fisac (who knew Escrivá personally at the time), Escrivá's original request for the title might have been part of an unsuccessful attempt to join the Sovereign Military Order of Malta (SMOM), a Catholic religious order which required its members to be of noble birth and of which his deputy in Opus Dei, Msgr. Álvaro del Portillo, was already a member.\n\nSeveral biographers say Escrivá prohibited his devotees from asking for the title of Marquess of Peralta. They state that Escrivá accepted it due to the advice of some cardinals who told him that he had the obligation to do so for the sake of his brother, Santiago, and so as to practice what he preached about fulfilling civil duties and exercising rights. His brother Santiago said: \"The decision was heroic because he knew that he will be vilified as a result... Josemaría did what is best for me. After the right amount of time has passed, without making use of the title (in fact he never had the intention of using it), he passed the title on to me.\"\n\nPauline priest Fr. Giancarlo Rocca, a Church historian and a professor at the \"Claretianum\" in Rome, claims that Escrivá actively sought the rank of bishop but was twice refused by the Vatican curia, first during 1945, and later during 1950 (when he and his devotees had lobbied for his appointment as bishop of Vitoria). According to Fr. Rocca, in both instances the curial officials privately expressed concerns about the organization of Opus Dei and about the psychological profile of Escrivá.\n\nSociologist Alberto Moncada, a former member of Opus Dei, has collected and published various oral testimonies about Escrivá's difficult relations with other officials of the Catholic Church. In particular, Moncada quotes Fr. Antonio Pérez Tenessa, who at the time was secretary general of Opus Dei in Rome, as witnessing Escrivá's intense displeasure concerning the election of Pope Paul VI during 1963, and later even expressing doubts in private about the salvation of the Pope's soul. Journalist Luis Carandell claims that, during his years in Rome, Escrivá kept his distance from the Jesuit Superior General, Pedro Arrupe, to the extent that Arrupe once joked with Monsignor Antonio Riberi, the apostolic nuncio to Spain, about doubting whether Escrivá really existed.\n\nAccording to María del Carmen Tapia, who worked with Escrivá in Rome, the founder of Opus Dei had \"no respect\" for Popes John XXIII or Paul VI and believed that his own organization of Opus Dei was \"above the Church in holiness.\" According to Moncada, Escrivá's years in Rome were dedicated in large part to his campaign to make Opus Dei independent from the authority of the diocesan bishops and the Vatican curia, something which was finally achieved, after Escrivá's death, with the establishment during 1982, by Pope John Paul II, of Opus Dei as a personal prelature, subject only to its own prelate and to the Pope. As such, Opus Dei is currently the only personal prelature in the Catholic Church, although this juridical figure - similar in nature to other kinds of hierarchical organization in the Church's history, such as military and personal ordinariates - is fruit of the Second Vatican Council's aim to provide pastoral attention in ways more suited to the actual situation of many of its faithful. In this way, its work complements that of the dioceses, and in some cases even takes the form of a more direct collaboration: for example, when priests of Opus Dei assume pastoral care of parishes at the request of the local bishops. Escriva may have had this in mind when he wrote, \"The only ambition, the only desire of Opus Dei and each of its members is to serve the Church as the Church wants to be served, within the specific vocation God has given us.\" Membership in the prelature does not exempt a Catholic from the authority of the local diocesan bishop.\n\nAfter the death of Escrivá de Balaguer on 26 June 1975, the Postulation for the Cause of his beatification and canonization received many testimonies and postulatory letters from people all over the world.</ref> On the fifth anniversary of Escrivá's death, the Postulation solicited the initiation of the cause of beatification from the Vatican Congregation for the Causes of Saints. One-third of the world's bishops (an unprecedented number) petitioned for Escrivá's beatification.\n\nHis cause for beatification was introduced in Rome on 19 February 1981 on the strength of the apparently miraculous cure during 1976 of a rare disease, lipomatosis, suffered by Sister Concepción Boullón Rubio, whose family had prayed to Escrivá to help her. On 9 April 1990, Pope John Paul II declared that Escrivá possessed Christian virtues to a \"heroic degree\", and on 6 July 1991 the Board of Physicians for the Congregation of the Causes of Saints unanimously accepted the cure of Sister Rubio. He was beatified on 17 May 1992.\n\nBy way of a letter dated 15 March 1993, the Postulation for the Cause received news about the miraculous cure of Dr. Manuel Nevado Rey from cancerous chronic radiodermatitis, an incurable disease, which took place in November 1992. The reported miracle, apparently brought about by Escrivá's intervention, was ruled valid by the Congregation for the Causes of Saints and approved by Pope John Paul II during December 2001, enabling the canonization of Escrivá. John Paul II, who frequently expressed public endorsement of Opus Dei and its work, canonized Escrivá on 6 October 2002. The canonization Mass was attended by 42 cardinals and 470 bishops from around the world, general superiors of many orders and religious congregations, and representatives of various Catholic groups. During the days of the canonization event, Church officials commented on the validity of the message of the founder, repeating John Paul II's decree \"Christifideles Omnes\" on Escrivá's virtues, which said that \"by inviting Christians to be united to God through their daily work, which is something men will have to do and find their dignity in as long as the world lasts, the timeliness of this message is destined to endure as an inexhaustible source of spiritual light, regardless of changing epochs and situations.\" \n\nVarious critics questioned the rapidity of . On the eve of Escrivá's beatification during 1992, journalist William D. Montalbano, writing for the \"Los Angeles Times\", described it as \"perhaps the most contentious beatification in modern times.\" Critics have argued that the process was plagued by irregularities. However, endorsers refer to Fr. Rafael Pérez, an Augustinian priest who presided over the tribunal in Madrid for Escrivá's cause, as \"one of the best experts\" on canonization. Fr. Pérez stated that the process was fast because Escrivá's figure is \"of the universal importance,\" the Postulators \"knew what they were doing\", and, during 1983, the procedures were simplified in order to present \"models who lived in a world like ours.\" Fr. Flavio Capucci, the Postulator, also reported that the 6,000 postulatory letters to the Vatican showed \"earnestness\".\n\nEscrivá's canonization was one of the first to be processed after the 1983 Code of Canon Law streamlined the procedures for canonization, and so it was processed more quickly than was typical before. Mother Teresa was canonized even more quickly, having been beatified just 6 years after her death (Escrivá was beatified in 17 years). According to journalist Kenneth L. Woodward, the 6,000-page long \"positio\" (the official document about the life and work of the candidate for sainthood prepared by the postulators) was declared confidential, but leaked to the press in 1992, after Escrivá's beatification. Woodward declared that, of 2,000 pages of testimonies, about 40% are by either Álvaro del Portillo or Javier Echevarría Rodríguez who, as successors of Escrivá at the head of Opus Dei, would have the most to gain from the Church recognizing that organization's founder as a saint. The only critical testimony quoted in the \"positio\" was by Alberto Moncada, a Spanish sociologist who had been a member of Opus Dei and whose testimony might have been easier for the Church authorities to dismiss because he had had little personal contact with Escrivá and had left the Catholic Church altogether. This critical testimony covered a mere two pages.\n\nCritics of the process also questioned the fact that some of the physicians involved in the authentication of the two \"scientifically inexplicable cures\" achieved through the posthumous intercession of Escrivá, such as Dr. Raffaello Cortesini (a heart surgeon), were themselves members of Opus Dei. The Vatican has stated that the Medical Consultants for the Congregation affirmed unanimously that the miraculous cure of a cancerous state of chronic radiodermatitis in its third and irreversible stage in Dr. Manuel Nevado Rey (a country doctor in the village of Almendralejo) was \"very quick, complete, lasting and scientifically inexplicable.\" After six months, the theological consultants, according to the Vatican, also unanimously attributed this cure to Escrivá. On the year of his canonization, the Opus Dei prelate reported that the Postulation has gathered 48 reports of unexplained medical favors attributed to Escriva's intercession, as well as 100,000 ordinary favours.\n\nFormer Opus Dei members critical of Escrivá's character who claim that they were refused a hearing during the beatification and canonization processes include Miguel Fisac (a well-known Spanish architect who was one of the earliest members of Opus Dei and remained an associate of Escrivá for nearly twenty years), Msgr. Felzmann (a Czech-born engineer and Catholic priest from the UK, who was Escrivá's personal assistant), María del Carmen Tapia (who worked with Escrivá in Opus Dei's central offices in Rome and directed its printing press), Carlos Albás (a Spanish lawyer who was also Escrivá's first cousin once removed), María Angustias Moreno (who was an official of the women's part of Opus Dei, during Escrivá's lifetime), and Dr. John Roche (an Irish physicist and historian of science who was a member of Opus Dei from 1959 to 1973, and managed one of its schools in Kenya). Several groups critical of Escrivá and of Opus Dei emerged both before and after the canonization of Escrivá, including the Opus Dei Awareness Network (ODAN), and \"OpusLibros\", both collaborations of former members who now oppose Opus Dei and its practices.\n\nAccording to journalist Kenneth L. Woodward, before the official beatification he\n\nCatholic theologian Richard McBrien termed Escrivá's sainthood \"the most blatant example of a politicized [canonization] in modern times.\" According to Catholic writer and biographer John Allen such views are countered by many other ex-members, the present members, and the estimated 900,000 people who attend activities of Opus Dei. He says that the interpretation of the facts \"seems to depend upon one's basic approach to spirituality, family life, and the implications of a religious vocation.\" Allen's account of Opus Dei and its founder, however, was not accepted by all reviewers as impartial.\n\nEscrivá's canonization attracted an unusual amount of attention and criticism, both within the Catholic Church and by the press. Father Capucci, the postulator of Escrivá's cause for sainthood, summarized the main accusations against Escrivá: that \"he had a bad temper, that he was cruel, that he was vain, that he was close to Spanish dictator Francisco Franco, that he was pro-Nazi and that he was so dismayed by the Second Vatican Council that he even travelled to Greece with the idea that he might convert to the Orthodox religion\".\n\nA \"Newsweek\" article by Woodward claimed that, of the nine judges of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints presiding over Escrivá's cause for beatification, two requested a suspension of the proceedings. The dissenters were identified as Luigi De Magistris, a prelate working in the Vatican's tribunal of the Apostolic Penitentiary, and Justo Fernández Alonso, rector of the Spanish National Church in Rome. According to Woodward, one of the dissenters wrote that the beatification of Escrivá could cause the church \"grave public scandal.\" The same article quoted Cardinal Silvio Oddi as declaring that many bishops were \"very displeased\" with the rush to canonize Escrivá so soon after his death. In interviews, José Saraiva Martins, Cardinal Prefect of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints, has denied being aware of that dissent.\n\nThe journal \"Il Regno\", published in Bologna by the congregation of the Priests of the Sacred Heart (the Dehonians), reproduced, during May 1992, the confidential vote of one of the judges in Escrivá's cause of beatification, in which the judge asks that the process be suspended and questions the undue haste of the proceedings, the near absence of testimony from critics in the documentation gathered by the postulators, the failure of the documentation to properly address issues about Escrivá's relations with the Franco regime and with other Catholic organizations, and suggestions from the official testimonies themselves that Escrivá lacked proper spiritual humility.\n\nThis document does not identify the judge by name, but he indicates that he met Escrivá only once, briefly, during 1966, while serving as a notary for the Holy Office, which implies that the judge in question was De Magistris. In his vote (which its own contents date to August 1989), De Magistris also argues that the testimony from the main witness, Álvaro del Portillo, who was Escrivá's confessor for 31 years, should have been excluded from the proceedings. John Allen Jr. comments that, according to some observers, De Magistris suffered as a result of his opposition to Escrivá's beatification. De Magistris became director of the Apostolic Penitentiary during 2001, an important position in the Vatican bureaucracy which normally is followed by elevation to the rank of cardinal, and retired less than two years later. However, Pope Francis made De Magistris a cardinal on 14 February 2015.\n\nThe significance of Escrivá's message and teachings has been a topic of debate, by Catholics and others. The Protestant French historian Pierre Chaunu, a professor at the Sorbonne and president of the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences, said that \"the work of Escrivá de Balaguer will undoubtedly mark the 21st century. This is a prudent and reasonable wager. Do not pass close to this contemporary without paying him close attention\". The Catholic theologian Hans Urs von Balthasar, who was appointed cardinal by Pope John Paul II (but died during 1988 before his investiture), dismissed Escrivá's principal work, \"The Way\", as \"a little Spanish manual for advanced Boy Scouts\" and argued that it was quite insufficient to sustain a major religious organization. However, the monk and spiritual writer Thomas Merton declared that Escrivá's book \"will certainly do a great deal of good by its simplicity, which is the true medium for the Gospel message\".\n\nCritics of Opus Dei have often argued that the importance and originality of Escrivá's intellectual contributions to theology, history, and law, at least as measured by his published writings, has been grossly exaggerated by his devotees. However, various officials of the Catholic church have spoken well of Escrivá's influence and of the relevance of his teachings. In the decree introducing the cause of beatification and canonization of Escrivá, Cardinal Ugo Poletti wrote during 1981: \"For having proclaimed the universal call to holiness since he founded Opus Dei during 1928, Msgr. Josemaría Escrivá de Balaguer, has been unanimously recognized as the precursor of precisely what constitutes the fundamental nucleus of the Church's magisterium, a message of such fruitfulness in the life of the Church.\" Sebastiano Baggio, Cardinal Prefect of the Congregation for Bishops, wrote a month after Escrivá's death: \"It is evident even today that the life, works, and message of the founder of Opus Dei constitutes a turning point, or more exactly a new original chapter in the history of Christian spirituality.\" A Vatican \"peritus\" or consultor for the process of beatification said that \"he is like a figure from the deepest spiritual sources\". Franz König, Archbishop of Vienna, wrote in 1975:\n\n\"The magnetic force of Opus Dei probably comes from its profoundly lay spirituality. At the very beginning, in 1928, Msgr. Escrivá anticipated the return to the Patrimony of the Church brought by the Second Vatican Council ... [H]e was able to anticipate the great themes of the Church's pastoral action in the dawn of the third millennium of her history.\"\n\nThe \"absolutely central\" part of Escrivá's teaching, says American theologian William May, is that \"sanctification is possible only because of the grace of God, freely given to his children through his only-begotten Son, and it consists essentially in an intimate, loving union with Jesus, our Redeemer and Savior.\"\n\nEscrivá's books, including \"Furrow\", \"The Way\", \"Christ is Passing By\", and \"The Forge\", continue to be read widely, and emphasize the laity's calling to daily sanctification (a message also to be found in the documents of Vatican II). Pope John Paul II made the following observation in his homily at the beatification of Escrivá:\n\nJohn Paul II's decree \"Christifideles omnes\" states: \"By inviting Christians to seek union with God through their daily work — which confers dignity on human beings and is their lot as long as they exist on earth — his message is destined to endure as an inexhaustible source of spiritual light regardless of changing epochs and situations\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "697523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697523", "title": "Kim Fowley", "text": "Kim Fowley\n\nKim Vincent Fowley (July 21, 1939 – January 15, 2015) was an American record producer, singer, songwriter and musician. He is best known for his role behind a string of novelty and cult pop rock singles in the 1960s, and for managing the Runaways in the 1970s. He has been described as \"one of the most colorful characters in the annals of rock & roll,\" as well as \"a shadowy cult figure well outside the margins of the mainstream.\"\n\nBorn in Los Angeles, Fowley was the son of character actor Douglas Fowley and actress Shelby Payne. His parents later divorced and Payne was remarried to William Friml, son of composer, Rudolf Friml. He attended University High School at the same time as singers Jan Berry and Dean Torrence (later of Jan and Dean fame), Nancy Sinatra, Bruce Johnston (later of the Beach Boys), as well as actors Ryan O'Neal, James Brolin and Sandra Dee.\n\nIn 1957, he was hospitalized with polio and, on his release, became manager and publicist for a local band the Sleepwalkers that included Johnston, drummer Sandy Nelson and, occasionally, Phil Spector. He spent some time in the armed forces and, by his own account, worked in the sex industry in Los Angeles in the late 1950s. In 1959 he began working in the music industry in various capacities for both Alan Freed and Berry Gordy. His first record as producer was \"Charge\" by the Renegades, a group comprising Johnston, Nelson, Nik Venet and Richard Podolor. He promoted records for the duo Skip & Flip (Skip Battin and Gary S. Paxton) including the #11 hit \"Cherry Pie\".\n\nDuring the early 1960s, Fowley was involved as co-producer/co-publisher with a string of successful records produced in Los Angeles. With Gary S. Paxton he recorded the novelty song \"Alley Oop\", which reached # 1 on the charts in 1960 and was credited to the non-existent group the Hollywood Argyles. In 1961 he co-produced the instrumental \"Like, Long Hair\", arranged by Paxton, which became a #38 hit for Paul Revere and the Raiders. He arranged \"Nut Rocker\" for B. Bumble and the Stingers, which became a # 1 hit in the UK in 1962 and talent scouted \"Papa-Oom-Mow-Mow\", a #48 hit for the Rivingtons. The following year he produced \"Popsicles and Icicles\" by the Murmaids, which reached #3 in the charts in 1963 and which was written by a pre-Bread David Gates, then a session musician and songwriter who had met Fowley while Kim was hitchhiking in Los Angeles.\n\nDuring the mid-1960s, Fowley publicized/consulted singer P.J. Proby and relocated for a time to London, England. Fowley wrote the lyrics for the song \"Portobello Road\", the B-side of Cat Stevens' first single, \"I Love My Dog\". He produced a Them spin-off band led by two ex-Them members, brothers Pat and Jackie McAuley (who were only allowed to use the band name Other Them in the UK, but called themselves Them on the European continent, releasing an album called \"Them Belfast Gypsies\" and a single \"Let's Freak Out\" under the name Freaks of Nature); an early incarnation of Slade known as the N'Betweens; Soft Machine (he produced \"Love Makes Sweet Music\", their first single); and the Lancasters, an instrumental rock group featuring a young Ritchie Blackmore. He worked with an up-and-coming band, the Farinas, and renamed them \"Family\".\n\nFowley worked on occasion as a recording artist in the 1960s, issuing albums such as \"Love Is Alive and Well\". In 1965 he wrote and produced a song about the psychedelic experience, \"The Trip\". He later was credited for \"hypephone\" on Frank Zappa's first album \"Freak Out!\" Other singles by Fowley as a recording artist included \"Animal Man\", during the song he remarks \"Its too dirty, it'll be banned\" from his popular 1968 album \"Outrageous\". All his efforts as a solo artist since 1970 have become cult items, both in reissue and bootleg formats.\n\nIn 1968, Fowley joined forces with a young band from Topanga Canyon California, St John Green, to produce their only album containing songs, musical soundtracks, comedy and dark poetry. The band comprised Ed Bissot (bass), Bill Kirkland (guitars), Vic Sabino (vocals, harmonica and percussion), Mike Baxter (organ), and Shel Scott (drums). The album was engineered by Michael Lloyd. Fowley later claimed it to be \"one of the great lost records...Somebody will reissue it someday and people will start crying and jacking off and smoking dope to it. It's a great record. There's only a handful of records that I’ve made that are great.\" The album was released by MGM on the Flick Disc label, but the group disbanded soon afterwards.\n\nHe is credited with being the inspiration behind promoter John Brower's call to John Lennon that resulted in the last-minute appearance of the Plastic Ono Band at the Toronto Rock and Roll Revival on September 13, 1969, where Fowley was the MC. At this event, Fowley invited the audience to light matches and lighters to welcome a nervous John Lennon to the stage.\n\nIn 1969, Fowley produced the album \"I'm Back and I'm Proud\" for Gene Vincent. He co-wrote for Warren Zevon's first solo album, \"Wanted Dead or Alive\". Fowley collaborated with his friend Skip Battin during Battin's membership as bassist with the Byrds on a number of songs which appeared on their early '70's albums:\n\"The Hungry Planet\", \"You All Look Alike\", \"Tunnel of Love\", \"Citizen Kane\", \"Absolute Happiness\", \"Precious Kate\", and \"America's Great National Pastime\". The latter song was released as a single in late 1971. When Battin moved on to the New Riders of the Purple Sage in 1974, Fowley and Battin co-wrote five songs for the New Riders: \"On the Amazon\", \"Big Wheels\", \"Singing Cowboy\", \"Neon Rose\" and \"Strangers on a Train\".\n\nIn 1973, Fowley produced three recordings by Flash Cadillac & the Continental Kids for the film \"American Graffiti\" (1973). These songs were \"At the Hop\", \"Louie Louie\" and \"She's So Fine\". He co-wrote songs for KISS, Helen Reddy, Alice Cooper, Leon Russell and Kris Kristofferson. He made recordings with Jonathan Richman and the Modern Lovers, which were eventually released in 1981 as \"The Original Modern Lovers\". Fowley's tracks were not included on the original versions of the album \"The Modern Lovers\" but some were included on later CD reissues.\n\nIn 1974, Fowley placed an advertisement in local fanzine \"Who Put the Bomp\" looking for female performers. He hoped to form an all-girl group that he could produce and would perform his songs, but no one responded to the advert. In 1975, he met the teenage guitarist Joan Jett who expressed interest in forming an all-girl band. Less than two weeks later, he met 15-year-old drummer Sandy West who introduced herself outside of the Rainbow Bar and Grill in Hollywood, California. West told Fowley of her aspirations to form an all-girl band after playing in all male groups. This meeting led to Fowley giving West Jett's phone number. The two met and began playing together at West's home the following week. A short time later Fowley recruited Lita Ford, Cherie Currie, and Jackie Fox. They eventually became the Runaways. While he did produce some of their albums and contributed lyrics to songs, the band was primarily responsible for creating their own music. The group severed their ties with Fowley in 1977.\n\nFowley co-wrote two Kiss songs \"King of the Night Time World\" and \"Do You Love Me?\" with Paul Stanley and producer Bob Ezrin. Both appeared on Kiss' 1976 album \"Destroyer\".\n\nIn 1978, Fowley formed the Orchids, another all-female rock band, with Laurie McAllister, the last bassist from The Runaways, and Sandy Fury, a 13-year-old rock prodigy on rhythm guitar and vocals.\n\nIn 1979, Fowley signed new artists, such as Tommy Rock, the Popsicles, and the Orchids. Fowley promoted \"Kim Fowley Night\" featuring these bands at the Whisky a Go Go. Fowley brought Stiv Bators & the Dead Boys, the Popsicles, and the Orchids into Leon Russell's Cherokee Recording Studio in Hollywood to record \"LA, LA (I'm on a Hollywood High)\".\n\nIn the 1980s Fowley moved to Australia where he announced that he was \"looking for the new Beatles or ABBA\". His search turned up power pop band Beathoven who were still under a recording contract with EMI. Changing their name to the Innocents, he secured a new record deal with Trafalgar Records and produced several songs for the group. They too became a cult band in later bootlegs/reissues. Fowley produced the first demos for the iconic power pop band, Candy, which featured Gilby Clarke and Kyle Vincent. Vincent was Fowley's personal assistant. Producer Fowley and attorney David Chatfield recorded the first album for Steel Breeze at Rusk studios in Hollywood and got Steel Breeze their recording contract with RCA. Casey Kasem, on the edition of March 12, 1983 of American Top 40, describes how Fowley discovered Steel Breeze while going through approximately 1200 demo tapes that were about to be discarded by a local Hollywood nightclub, Madam Wongs. \"You Don't Want Me Anymore\" was the first single from the band's self-titled album and quickly jumped into the Top 20 on the Billboard Hot 100 supported by a video that was a favorite of early MTV, and peaked at # 16. The next single, \"Dreamin' Is Easy\", also made it into the Top 40.\n\nIn 1984, still owning rights to the name \"the Runaways\", Fowley rebuilt the image around Gayle Welch, an unknown teenager from New Zealand. Adding Denise Prior, Missy Bonilla (then a typist for Denny Diante at what was CBS Records) and Cathy DiAmber (Catherine Dombrowski) with David Carr on keyboards, a Chicago guitarist Bill Millay and numerous session musicians. Fowley, assisted by New Zealander Glenn Holland, sought to cash in on the fame of the former Runaways members who had gone on to significant success in their individual solo careers. In 1985, he returned to the United States and recorded further songs with the Innocents' David Minchin.\n\nIn 1986, Fowley spotted the band Shanghai (consisting of Eric Leach and Taz Rudd of Symbol Six, Brent Muscat of Faster Pussycat, Patrick Muzingo, and Todd Muscat of Decry) at the Troubadour. After seeing their performance he asked, \"Are you ready to make a record?!\" They immediately moved in with Fowley and began writing and recording songs. David Libert, Alice Cooper's ex-road manager and agent for George Clinton and Parliament Funkadelic, was recruited to come in to handle the day-to-day babysitting chores. Shanghai played the reopening of the Whisky a Go Go in April 1986 with Guns N' Roses and Faster Pussycat. Their last show was at the Scream in Los Angeles in 1987.\n\nFowley is featured in \"Mayor of the Sunset Strip\", a 2003 documentary about the disc jockey Rodney Bingenheimer.\n\nAlso in 2003, Fowley made a return trip to London, England, where he made an in-store appearance at Intoxica Records on Portobello Road and curated and performed an evening of music and entertainment at the Dirty Water Club at its then base at the Boston Music Room in North London.\n\nKim became an experimental filmmaker after the DVD release of \"Mayor of the Sunset Strip\". His written and directed works include: \"Black Room Doom\", \"Dollboy: The Movie\", \"Satan of Silverlake\", \"The Golden Road to Nowhere\", \"Frankenstein Goes Surfing\", \"Trailer Park's On Fire\" and \"Jukebox California\". Video clips/scenes from these movies can be seen on YouTube and Myspace, and feature a cast of regulars including but not limited to musical oddities such as the Fabulous Miss Wendy, Giddle Partridge, Richard Rogers (Crazy White Man) and Clown Porn Queen Hollie Stevens.\n\nFowley released the 21 track solo album \"Adventures in Dreamland\" on WEED/Innerstate Records in 2004. It contained the songs \"Mayor of the Sunset Strip,\" \"Terrors in Tinseltown,\" and \"Ballad of Phil Spector.\"\n\nIn 2008, Fowley was reunited with Cherie Currie at Houdini's mansion in Los Angeles. He played three dozen gigs between June 2007 and February 2009 as the act \"Crazy White Man\", a duo featuring him on vocals and Richard Rogers on guitar. The bulk of the Crazy White Man shows took place during 2008 and included the Tribute to Gidget Gein, which raised funds for Gidget's Hollywood Forever memorial.\n\nCapitol re-released several of his titles, and director Guy Ritchie used his song \"The Trip\" in the 2008 film \"RocknRolla\". Fowley was recently regularly heard on Sirius Satellite Radio with a four-hour show on Saturdays and Sundays.\n\nCurrie wrote a memoir of her time in the Runaways, which was turned into the film, \"The Runaways\", released on March 19, 2010. It featured Kristen Stewart playing Jett, and Dakota Fanning portraying Currie. Michael Shannon played the part of Fowley.\n\nIn 2012, Fowley won the Special Jury Prize at the 13th Melbourne Underground Film Festival for his two feature projects – \"Golden Road to Nowhere\" and \"Black Room Doom\".\n\nIn his last years, Fowley worked on writing and publishing his autobiography, which he divided between three distinct books. He released the first volume of his autobiography, \"Lord of Garbage,\" published by Kicks Books, in 2012. It covers the years 1939–1969 and describes his early childhood and beginning years in the music business. The second volume of his autobiography was intended to be called \"Planet Pain\" and to cover the years 1970–1994. The last volume of his autobiography was intended to be finished on his deathbed and to be released posthumously, for as the 2010s began, Fowley was disease-stricken. On September 24, 2014, Fowley married longtime girlfriend and music executive Kara Wright-Fowley, in a private ceremony in Los Angeles.\n\nFowley died of bladder cancer in Hollywood, California on January 15, 2015 at the age of 75.\n\nHe is interred at Hollywood Forever Cemetery.\n\nIn a 2001 interview, Michael Steele of The Bangles fame claims she was fired from the Runaways by Fowley for refusing his sexual propositions.\n\nIn 2015, Jackie Fuchs (formerly Jackie Fox of the Runaways) claimed that Fowley had raped her while he was involved with the band. Fox also alleges that Jett and Currie witnessed the rape, a claim which Jett denies, but songwriter Kari Krome and other bystanders corroborated.\n\n"}
{"id": "844019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844019", "title": "Laban (Book of Mormon)", "text": "Laban (Book of Mormon)\n\nLaban () was the name of a person in the first part of the Book of Mormon, a scripture of the Latter Day Saint movement. Although he only makes a brief appearance in the narrative, his brass plates would play an important role amongst the Nephites, who are the book's main protagonists.\n\nIn the book of First Nephi, chapters three and four, Laban is described as a notable citizen of Jerusalem who commanded great wealth and many servants. Among his possessions was a set of brass plates containing the genealogy of Lehi, a major character in the early portion of the Book of Mormon. Lehi, having left the city with his family in response to God's command, enjoined his four sons to return to Jerusalem and retrieve them: \"For behold, Laban hath the record of the Jews and also a genealogy of my forefathers, and they are engraven upon plates of brass.\" Lehi furthermore stated that this injunction did not originate with himself, but with the Lord, who had spoken to him on this matter in a dream.\n\nLehi's two older sons, Laman and Lemuel, were reluctant to obey their father's order at first, fearful of Laban's power and ruthless reputation. However, Lehi's fourth son, Nephi, vowed that he would obey God's command: \"For I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them.\" Accordingly, the four sons of Lehi set out for Jerusalem.\n\nFirst, Laman went to Laban alone to request the records, but Laban cast Laman out of his house and threatened to kill him. Next, Nephi and his brothers offered all of their families valuables that they had left behind in Jerusalem after they had fled into the wilderness, to Laban in return for the brass plates. The Book of Mormon then states that Laban \"did lust\" after their wealth and \"thrust\" Nephi and his brothers from his house, but then sent his servants to kill them. In their haste to escape with their lives, Lehi's sons had to abandon their families goods and flee, thus allowing Laban to take possession of their families wealth .\n\nAfter fleeing Jerusalem, the elder brothers Laman and Lemuel were angry with Lehi and their younger, more faithful, brothers Sam and Nephi, so they beat their siblings with rods. Suddenly, an angel appeared, commanding the elder duo to desist and all of them to return forthwith to the city, where Laban would fall into their hands. Laman and Lemuel demurred: \"Behold, he is a mighty man, and he can command fifty, yea, even he can slay fifty; then why not us?\" Though Nephi encouraged his brothers by reminding them of God's might, it was only with great reluctance that they agreed to press on.\n\nUndaunted, Nephi slipped back into Jerusalem alone that night, where he soon found Laban lying unconscious in a drunken stupor. The Spirit of God told Nephi to kill Laban with his own sword and seize the records, saying \"It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief.\" After complying, Nephi disguised himself as Laban and headed towards Laban's treasury where the brass plates were kept. On the way there he found one of Laban's servants, Zoram, whom he commanded to retrieve the brass plates and to follow him out of the city. Zoram obeyed, and once outside the city, Nephi revealed that he was not Laban, and he and his brothers convinced Zoram to join them and their family in their journey to the New World.\n\nUpon returning to his family in the wilderness, Nephi turned over the \"Plates of Laban\" to Lehi, who made a complete inspection of them. Lehi determined that the plates contained:\n\n\nAfter reading the contents of the brass plates, Lehi prophesied that they would \"never be dimmed any more by time,\" and that they would ultimately \"go forth unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people who were of his seed.\"\n\nWhen Nephi encountered the unconscious Laban, he noticed that Laban was wearing a fine sword made of \"precious steel\" with a hilt of \"pure gold.\" After slaying Laban, Nephi took this sword for himself. He would later use it as a model for manufacturing similar weapons for his people's defense.\n\nApparently Laban's sword was passed down through the centuries to future prophets, kings, and warriors, as it is mentioned many centuries later in the Book of Mormon. Mormon orthodoxy maintains that the sword exists to the present day, and was hidden away with the Gold Plates found by Joseph Smith.\n\nJames J. Strang, one of several contenders to succeed Joseph Smith during the 1844 succession crisis, asserted that he had been given the \"Plates of Laban\" in fulfillment of Lehi's prophecy. His translation of selections from them was published in 1851 as \"The Book of the Law of the Lord: Being a Translation from the Egyptian of the Law Given to Moses in Sinai\". In its preface, Strang clearly identifies the \"Plates of Laban\" as the source for most of his book.\n\nStrang's Book of the Law comprises a constitution for a Mormon monarchy, wherein the Prophet-leader of the Latter Day Saint church equally rules as king over God's kingdom on earth. His 1856 expanded version also contains other revelations and teachings by Strang to enhance understanding of the work. The \"Book of the Law\" was seen by Strang as making up only a portion of the Plates of Laban, rather than the whole, showing that it was a more complete bible that included books now lost. The Book of Mormon also claims this in reference to works by Zenos and Zenock, prophets who lived in Jerusalem, but are now unknown to history.\n\nSeven witnesses testified to having seen and handled the plates Strang claimed to possess. They described the plates as being eighteen in number, each measuring approximately seven and three-eighths inches wide, by nine inches long. The plates themselves were \"occasionally embellished with beautiful pictures,\" and all appeared to be of \"beautiful antique workmanship, bearing a striking resemblance to the ancient oriental languages.\"\n\nThe subsequent history of Strang's \"Plates of Laban,\" and their current whereabouts, is a mystery.\n\nThe Book of the Law of the Lord is not viewed as sacred scripture to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Brighamite) or Community of Christ (Josephite) churches, the two largest factions of the Latter Day Saint movement, although the Community of Christ (then RLDS) was formed primarily of Strang's followers under Joseph Smith III, and held the book as sacred until Strang was official decanonized due to persecution and the scandal surrounding polygamy.\n\nIn \"\", adapted from First and Second Nephi, Laban was portrayed by the actor Michael Flynn.\n\nThe film was rated PG-13 by American censors for \"a scene of violence\", having contained an image of Nephi with blood splattered on his face after beheading Laban. This image was removed for home media releases, and the film received a PG rating.\n\nThe film was widely panned by Mormon and non-Mormon critics.. The Austin Chronicle wrote of \"\"Michael Flynn turning in a ripping good Edward G. Robinson impersonation as the villainous Laban\".\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39781730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39781730", "title": "Lee Chong Cheng", "text": "Lee Chong Cheng\n\nLee Chong Cheng (; born 16 November 1965 in Macau) is a member of the Legislative Assembly of Macau. Lee Chong Cheng was first elected through the Labor functional constituency representing Employees Association Joint Candidature Commission (CCCAE) later directly elected through the Geographical constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "36052278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36052278", "title": "List of Big Brother 13 housemates (UK)", "text": "List of Big Brother 13 housemates (UK)\n\nThe following is a list of contestants in the thirteenth series of \"Big Brother UK\".\n\nAdam Kelly, aged 27, was raised in Burton-upon-Trent but moved to the United States and currently lives in Dudley, upon his move back to the United Kingdom. He is a reformed former member of the Los Angeles Crips gang. He left the house as this year's runner-up, leaving the house on Day 70.\n\nArron Lowe is a 23-year-old model from Manchester. He modelled for clothing companies such as Abercrombie & Fitch, John Galliano and Hollister. In Week 5, Arron was nominated for eviction against three other housemates. He received the fewest votes to save and became the fifth housemate to be evicted.\n\nAshleigh Hughes (born 23 June 1991) is a former wine stocks saleswoman from Romford, East London. On Day 1, Ashleigh entered the house with fifteen other housemates. On Day 13, she won a gym session for herself and Luke S in the Ticking Time Bomb game. On Day 19, Ashleigh celebrated her 21st birthday in the house, and chose two other housemates to plan rival parties for her. She then had to choose one party to carry on, and one to close down. In Week 10, Ashleigh faced her third eviction against three other housemates. She became the eleventh housemate to be evicted, in a double eviction with Scott.\n\nRebecca \"Becky\" Hannon (born 25 November 1992) is a 19-year-old drama college student from Blackburn. She was in her first year of drama college and has previously been an extra in \"Shameless\". Becky was chosen by the public to enter the \"Big Brother\" house on Day 4 as a wildcard housemate. In Week 9, she was nominated for eviction against three other housemates. She was evicted in a very close vote, receiving 1.1% of the public vote less than Ashleigh.\n\nBenedict Garrett is a 32-year-old former teacher from Manchester. He used to work at Beal High School but was suspended from his last teaching job in 2010 when it was revealed that he was a stripper and had worked in pornography under the pseudonyms Johnny Anglais and Jonny Cockfill. He has an 18-year-old foster son. In Week 3, Benedict was nominated for eviction against Lauren, and became the third housemate to be evicted.\n\nCaroline Wharram is a 20-year-old former boarding school girl from Surrey. She was nominated in Week 8 against seven other housemates, and received the lowest number of votes to save out of the eight, becoming the eighth housemate to be evicted.\n\nChris James is a 21-year-old doorman and bailiff from Luton. In Week 2, he was nominated for eviction against Arron, and received the fewest number of votes to save, becoming the second housemate to be evicted.\n\nConor McIntyre (born 27 July 1987) is a 25-year-old from Derry. At the age of 16, Conor won a place at the David Beckham Football Academy. On Day 60, Conor and Luke S were faced with the option of taking up to half of the £100,000 jackpot prize, but if they did they had to leave the house immediately. Both Conor and Luke S pressed the red button in The White Room for the £50,000 but Conor pressed it first, and left the Big Brother House with £50,000.\n\nDeana Uppal (born 30 January 1988) is a 24-year-old model from Wednesbury. She was the current holder of the title \"Miss India UK\". On Day 1, Deana entered the house along with fifteen other housemates. She was randomly selected by Big Brother to be the first housemate to enter the house, and had to nominate three of the other housemates in front of them in exchange for immunity from the public eviction. On Day 70, Deana left the house in 3rd place. Deana received the most nominations of the entire series, and survived the highest number of evictions.\n\nLauren Carre is a 20-year-old who grew up on a farm in Jersey. She is a black belt in martial arts. She auditioned for Big Brother via YouTube. In Week 3, Lauren was nominated for eviction against Benedict, but survived. In Week 7, Lauren was nominated for her second eviction against Luke A, and became the seventh housemate to be evicted.\n\nAfter her eviction, Carre appeared in a photoshoot for Nuts magazine.\n\nLuke Anderson (born 1981) is a South African-born 31-year-old chef from Flintshire. He was assigned female at birth and used to be called Laura. He was one of two housemates called Luke in the house, so was referred to as Luke A to avoid confusion. In Week 7, he was nominated to face the public vote against Lauren, and survived. In Week 9, Luke A faced the public vote for the third time in succession, against three other housemates, and survived for a third time. On Day 70, Luke A left the house as the winner of \"Big Brother 13\". \n\nLuke Scrase is a 25-year-old club promoter from Stoke-on-Trent. He left the house in 5th place on Day 70, and was the first to leave the house on the final night.\n\nLydia Louisa (born 21 June 1986 ) is a 26-year-old professional dancer from Cheshire. She had danced with celebrities such as Kylie Minogue, Robbie Williams, Kanye West and has appeared, as an extra, on the film \"Mamma Mia!\". She was also a contestant on series 1 of \"\". In Week 4, Lydia was nominated to face the public vote against Deana. She received fewer votes, and became the fourth housemate to be evicted.\n\nSara McLean (born 6 April 1990) is a 26-year-old model from Edinburgh. She won Miss Edinburgh in 2010 and finished second in Miss Scotland 2011 and lost to Big Brother 15's Danielle McMahon. Sara survived to the final, being up for the public vote only once during her stay, and left the house in 4th place on Day 70.\n\nIn March 2013, McLean appeared topless in a photoshoot for the first time in Zip magazine.\n\nScott Mason is a 21-year-old history student from Macclesfield, who was studying at the University of Exeter. On Day 44, Scott was given an official warning by Big Brother for using language that could be viewed as stereotyping towards Deana. In Week 10, Scott was nominated to face the public vote in a double eviction against three other housemates. He became the tenth housemate to leave the house, along with Ashleigh who became the eleventh. Out of all of the housemates, Scott was the last to face the public vote; he was never up for eviction until Week 10, when he was evicted.\n\nShievonne Robinson (born 7 July 1983) is an assistant manager from Lewisham. In 2011, she worked at the Playboy Casino in Mayfair as a hostess. In Week 6, she was nominated for eviction against Conor, and became the sixth housemate to be evicted.\n\nVictoria Eisermann is a 41-year-old former glamour model from Reading. She was a plus-size model and animal rights campaigner. She received the least support in the first public vote and on Day 4 became the first housemate to be evicted from the Big Brother house.\n"}
{"id": "5318992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5318992", "title": "List of Cambodian Americans", "text": "List of Cambodian Americans\n\nThis is a list of notable Cambodian Americans, including both original immigrants who obtained American citizenship and their American descendants.\n\nTo be included in this list, the person must have a Wikipedia article showing they are Cambodian American or must have references showing they are Cambodian American and are notable.\n"}
{"id": "46936380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46936380", "title": "List of people with non-binary gender identities", "text": "List of people with non-binary gender identities\n\nThis is a list of people who identify with a gender that is outside of the gender binary (non-binary or genderqueer).\n\nNon-binary gender identities include agender and bigender, and are considered part of the transgender spectrum.\n\nThe term \"third gender\" has been used to describe hijras of India, Bangladesh and Pakistan who have gained legal identity, fa'afafine of Polynesia, and sworn virgins of the Balkans, among others, and is also used by many of such groups and individuals to describe themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "2448440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2448440", "title": "Loren Kohnfelder", "text": "Loren Kohnfelder\n\nLoren Kohnfelder is best known for his MIT S.B. (BSCSE) thesis written in May 1978 describing a practical means of applying public key cryptography to secure network communications.\n\nThe Kohnfelder thesis introduced the terms 'certificate' and 'certificate revocation list' as well as introducing numerous other concepts now established as important parts of public key infrastructure. The X.509 certificate specification that provides the basis for SSL, S/MIME and most modern PKI implementations are based on the Kohnfelder thesis.\n\nHe was also the co-creator, with Praerit Garg, of the STRIDE model of security threats, widely used in threat modeling. \n\n"}
{"id": "3252204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3252204", "title": "Mikhail Liber", "text": "Mikhail Liber\n\nMikhail Isaakovich Liber (5 June 1880 – 4 October 1937), sometimes known as Mark Liber, was a leader of the General Jewish Workers' Union (the 'Bund'). He also played a role in the Russian Social-Democratic Workers' Party (RSDRP) and among the Mensheviks. Liber was instrumental in the soviets during the February Revolution of 1917 but opposed to October Revolution. He was reportedly shot during the Purges. Liber played a defining role in the development of the Bund and helped shaped the policies of the leaders of the February Revolution.\n\nMikhail Isaakovich Goldman was born in the Lithuanian city of Vilnius, then part of the Russian Empire, into a secular Jewish family. His father was a poet and office clerk. Like his older brothers, Boris and Lev (known as 'Gorev' and 'Akim' respectively), Mikhail became involved in radical student politics and was drawn to Marxism. He took an interest in the plight of Jewish workers in the Russian empire and joined the General Jewish Workers' Union in Lithuania, Poland and Russia (\"Algemeyner Yidisher Arbeter Bund in Lite, Poyln un Rusland\", אַלגעמײַנער ײדישער אַרבעטער בונד אין ליטע פוילין און רוסלאַנד) in 1897. Goldman took the revolutionary pseudonym 'M. Liber', by which he became known. He soon rose to prominence in the Bund and was elected to its Central Committee in 1902.\n\nThe Bund competed, on the one hand, with non-Marxist Jewish socialist groups that were influenced by Russian populism and, on the other, with the emerging Jewish Zionist movement. The Bund rejected Jewish national separatism and eventually came out against the Zionist project of establishing a Jewish state in Palestine. The Bund stressed that the struggle for Jewish emancipation in the Russian empire must be linked with the struggle of the Russian proletariat, and for that reason sought close relations with Russian Social-Democracy. Nevertheless, the Bund insisted on the cultural autonomy of the empire's Jews and, accordingly, the organisational autonomy of the Bund within a federal Russian Social-Democratic party. In internal debates within the Bund, younger Bundists like Liber placed greater emphasis on Jewish cultural identity than their more assimilationist elders (such as the Bund's founder, Arkadi Kremer), and on the need for propaganda in Yiddish aimed specifically at Jewish workers. In relation to the RSDRP, they argued for a looser, federal form of organisation, rather than a unitary centralised one.\n\nLiber was one of the Bund's representatives at the fateful Second Congress of the RSDRP in 1903, and the third most frequent speaker at the congress (after Lenin and Trotsky). He defended the Bund's demand to be recognised as an autonomous organisation within the RSDRP and as the sole legitimate representative of the Jewish proletariat in the Russian empire. This position was roundly rejected by both Lenin and I.O. Martov, soon to emerge as the leaders of the Bolshevik and Menshevik factions of the RSDRP. Martov had himself been a member of the Bund in the 1890s and one of Liber's former collaborators, but at the second congress, he supported Lenin in demanding the integration of the Jewish proletariat in an All-Russian Social-Democratic party. Martov proposed a more liberal criterion of party membership than Lenin, but by the time that issue led to the schism between Bolsheviks and Mensheviks, Liber and his fellow Bundist delegates had withdrawn in protest from the congress and from the RSDRP. It was the Bundists' exit that gave Lenin a slight majority at the congress (and hence enabled him to call his faction 'Bolshevik' - 'Majoritarian'). \n\nAs the division between Bolsheviks and Mensheviks hardened, the Bund was increasingly drawn to the Menshevik side. The Mensheviks reversed their position on organisational federalism, making it possible for the Bund to rejoin the Menshevik wing of the RSDRP. In 1906, Liber represented the Bund at the 4th, Unification, Congress of the RSDLP in Stockholm when the Bund rejoined the party. At the 5th Congress in London in 1907 he was elected to the RSDLP Central Committee. During the abortive Revolution of 1905, Liber played a role as a Bundist representative in the soviets, even though he, like most SDs (including Lenin), initially greeted the new, spontaneous workers' organisation with some scepticism. When the Revolution petered out in 1907 and the autocracy reasserted its authority, Liber was one of those who advocated a more cautious, legalistic course of action for the RSDRP. Known as 'Liquidators' because they wanted to 'liquidate' the illegal underground organisation of the party, this group was fiercely opposed by Lenin as well as by 'Party Mensheviks' like Martov and Trotsky (then a Menshevik). However, Social-Democratic 'Liquidators' like Liber had counterparts among the Socialist-Revolutionaries, including Liber's contemporary A.R. Gots. Liber's subsequent close alignment with Gots in 1917 may have had its roots in their common 'Liquidationism' of the 1910s. During this period, Liber married, which may also have encouraged his emphasis on legal work.\n\nIn 1914, Liber at first opposed the First World War and took a moderate 'Internationalist' position. However, after the February Revolution of 1917, Liber called for war 'in defence of the revolution' and took up a 'Revolutionary Defencist' position. As a representative of the Bund and the Mensheviks, Liber played amajor role in the soviets. He collaborated closely with Menshevik and SR 'Revolutionary Defencists' like F.I. Dan, I.G. Tsereteli, A.R. Gots, V.M. Zenzinov and N.D. Avksentiev - so closely that his name was often linked in Bolshevik propaganda with those of Dan and Gots, in a pun on the German phrase \"Dann lieber Gott!\" ('then, dear God!), as \"Danlibergots\". Liber was a staunch supporter of Alexander Kerensky's Provisional Government, although he declined an offer to join the cabinet, preferring to concentrate on his work in the soviet. He represented the Bund in the Executive Committee of the Petrograd Soviet and was a member of the Presidium of the Central Executive Committee of the All-Russian Soviet. As such, Liber opposed not only the Bolsheviks but also Menshevik Internationalists like his old comrade Martov.\n\nLiber opposed the October Revolution of 1917 and rejected the position taken by the Mensheviks and many Bundists, which called for negotioation with the Bolsheviks for the purpose of forming an all-socialist coalition government. This proposal then had considerable support among Mensheviks, SRs and even some Bolsheviks (such as L.B. Kamenev), to Lenin's great annoyance. Nothing came of it beyond a brief cooperation of the Left SRs with the Bolsheviks. Liber, for opposite reasons, agreed with Lenin that a unity government uniting the Bolsheviks with the moderate socialists they had just overthrown was politically impossible and would destroy the revolution. In taking this view, Liber parted ways with Dan, who had gone over to Martov's Menshevik Internationalists and eventually migrated to the far left of the Menshevik party. Owing to his anti-Bolshevism, Liber lost his leadership positions in the Menshevik party and in the Bund, but found himself in agreement with anti-Bolshevik SRs like Gots and Avksentiev.\n\nDespite his fierce and public opposition to the Bolsheviks, Liber was not at first persecuted (perhaps because his brother-in-law was F.E. Dzerzhinky, first head of the Cheka). Liber spent most of the Civil War years in the Ukraine, returning to Moscow in 1920. He resumed work in the Menshevik party (which was abandoning hopes of co-operation with the Bolsheviks). In 1922 he protested against the death sentences passed against A.R. Gots and his co-defendants at the 'Trial of the Right SRs'. Shortly thereafter, Liber was himself arrested and sentenced to internal exile. It was the first of several arrests in the course of the next 15 years. His final arrest occurred in March 1937, at the height of the Purges. Reportedly he was shot in October of that year, together with Gots. However, Soviet sources deny this and claim that Gots lived until 1940, while Liber retired from politics, devoted himself to business and died of natural causes.\n\n"}
{"id": "18056835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18056835", "title": "Mutula Kilonzo", "text": "Mutula Kilonzo\n\nMutula Kilonzo (2 July 1948 – 27 April 2013) was a Kenyan politician and Senior Counsel, who served as Minister of Education after having previously served as the Minister for Nairobi Metropolitan and justice and constitutional affairs He belonged to the Orange Democratic Movement-Kenya (now Wiper Democratic Movement) and was elected to represent the Makueni County as Senator in the 2013 general elections.\n\nKilonzo was born to Mzee Wilson Kilonzo Musembi and Mama Rhoda Koki Kilonzo. He was the second born.The young boy had to repeat class one for lack of fifteen shillings in school fees.\n\nKilonzo was educated at Mbooni Primary School and Machakos School before joining University of Dar es Salaam in 1969, graduating with a First Class Honours Degree in Law—the first in the East African region.\n\nIn the National Assembly of Kenya in the December 2007 parliamentary election. He was Minister for Nairobi Metropolitan Development until being appointed as Minister of Justice and constitutional affairs on 4 May 2009. He was the minister of education until April 2013 when the newly elected president was sworn in. He is on record for having controversially pushed for school girls not to be forced to wear \"nun-like\" skirts.\n\nHe won Makueni senatorial race in 2013 by defeating John Harun Mwau\n\nHe previously served as private attorney to now retired President Moi. Mutula Kilonzo made his debut in parliament as a nominated M.P for K.A.N.U in January 2003.\nWhen the first round of the presidential election took place on 4 March 2013. Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the president-elect of Kenya by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Raila Odinga challenged this in the Supreme Court of Kenya.He was one of the many lawyer assembled by Raila Odinga to draft and offer legal services on the petition.The petition was dismissed on 30 March 2013.\n\nMr Kilonzo divorced his first wife – the mother of Wanza and lawyers Kethi Kilonzo and Mutula Kilonzo Junior – in a landmark divorce which he was represented by Samuel Kivuitu. He married his second wife Nduku Musau, a daughter of the late Machakos mega-tycoon Musau Mwania, with whom they had four children; Muathi Kilonzo a financial expert, Michael Musembi a businessman, Mutune and Musau.\n\nHis first wife lives in Nairobi Riara Estate.\n\nOn 8 May 2013, a Eunice Nthenya was granted court order to conduct a DNA test to prove that Kilonzo fathered her a son Jackson Muuo who was born on 5 May 2006. she claimed that they had a relation between 2005 and 2008. She is a daughter to Kilonzo herdsman Robert Kavita Malinda.\n\nKilonzo died at his farm bordering Maanzoni lodge on Mombasa road Machakos County on 27 April 2013.\n\nInvestigations into Senator Mutula Kilonzo's death have ruled out a heart attack and have narrowed down to a likelihood of poisoning. Massive internal bleeding and a finding that all his internal organs were intact was a pointer to the presence of a toxin. An examination of the body had revealed that both the arteries and the heart had not been ruptured as is normally the case when one suffers a heart attack, the source said. \n\nThe postmortem examination was conducted by seven doctors, led by the chief government pathologist, Dr Johansen Oduor and his colleague Dr Dorothy Njeru at the Lee Funeral Home in Nairobi. British pathologist Calder Ian Maddison flew to Kenya at the family's request and took part in the examination. The exercise was witnessed by Machokos senator Johnstone Muthama, family doctor Luke Musau and Dr Emily Rogena. Others were Dr Frederick Okinyi government pathologist of Machakos where he died. Family forensic pathologist Andrew Kanyi Gachie.\n\nHe was buried on 9 May at his home in Woyani village, Utangwa location, Makueni County in line with his wishes. A requiem mass was held on 8 May at the Nairobi Baptist Church.\n\nMwaki Foundation which he said he founded in 2007 for his philanthropic efforts.\n\n"}
{"id": "24925225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24925225", "title": "Natuzza Evolo", "text": "Natuzza Evolo\n\nFortunata \"Natuzza\" Evolo (23 August 1924 – 1 November 2009) was an Italian Catholic mystic and Servant of God. She is said to have evidenced stigmata.\n\nA few months before Natuzza's birth at Paravati, near Mileto in Calabria, her father emigrated to Argentina to look for work and the family never saw him again. Maria Angela Valente, Natuzza's mother, took on all sorts of work to feed her numerous family. As soon as she was able, Natuzza (a diminutive of Fortunata, a common name in Calabria) tried to help her mother and brothers; she was therefore unable to go to school, and indeed never learned to read or write.\n\nIn 1944 she married Pasquale Nicolace, a carpenter, and they had five children, but from quite an early age she was said to have had visions of Our Lord and Our Lady. There is a 10-volume bibliography on Natuzza by Prof. Valerio Marinelli, with many interviews where she explains these facts. The bibliography also has interviews with others who claim to have been healed by her prayers or to have received other graces.\nNatuzza became known for the appearance on her body of blood-coloured images and words around the time of Easter, and these caused her great psychological and physical pain. Some of the words were found to be Hebrew and Aramaic, which was strange because she could not read or write, even in her native Italian. For decades, devout Catholics from Calabria, then the rest of Italy, began coming to her to ask for advice and prayers, and to ask her for information about the souls of their relatives.\n\nOn 13 May 1987 work began on building a shrine in Paravati dedicated to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Refuge of Sinners, destined to be her home for the rest of her life and to provide accommodation for the elderly. This is still awaiting authorisation by the Archbishop of Mileto. Italian television crews came several times to interview her and in 1994 she published her autobiography. A documentary film about her was produced in 1987. In 2007 a special programme was broadcast about an enterpreneur from Calabria who had recovered from leukaemia, and he interviewed Natuzza.\n\nFortunata Evolo was admitted to hospital on 29 October 2009, but almost immediately she was released, and died of renal failure on the morning of Sunday 1 November at the Immaculate Heart old people's home. The Church bells were ordered by the Parish Priest, Natuzza's spiritual director, to peal out for the Feast of All Saints. Thousands of Catholics came from all over Europe to pay their respects, and the cause for her beatification is expected to be started very soon.\n\nPsychotherapist and skeptic Armando De Vincentiis has published an article claiming that Evolo may have suffered from painful bruising syndrome:\n\n"}
{"id": "57067811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57067811", "title": "Otto Heinrich Röttcher", "text": "Otto Heinrich Röttcher\n\nOtto Heinrich Röttcher (7 November 1834 – 27 December 1911) was a missionary, established a town in South Africa and is known for making “wine“ out of oranges. He came from Müden (Aller), Germany to South Africa.\n\nHe came to South Africa in 1862 on the ship \"Candace\" from Germany. He was first stationed at Hermannsburg, KwaZulu-Natal. \n\nAs a missionary he was deployed in Midlands of KwaZulu-Natal,South Africa. He was a member of the Berlin Missionary Society. He worked under the Zulu nation.\n\nHe established a town in the Midlands of KwaZulu-Natal calling it Muden, KwaZulu-Natal, named after the town he came from in Germany. The town still exist today. \n\nIn 1916 was force to make “wine” out of oranges. There were no grapes so he used oranges. He needed wine for the Holy Communion. He established the Sonnegold Orange Winery. His son, Heinrich Christoph Röttcher (b.10 Sep 1879, d.17 Oct 1958) continued his father process of making the “wine”. This was handed over to his grand child, Karl Kurt Röttcher (b. 25 Aug 1910) and Karl opened a formal business in 1959 called “Röttcher Wineries, which is situated between Nelspruit and White River, Mpumalanga in the Lowveld, Eastern Transvaal, South Africa.\n\nHe married Marie Sophie Auguste Horst (15 September 1836 – 30 May 1922).\n"}
{"id": "17714462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17714462", "title": "Owen Walker", "text": "Owen Walker\n\nOwen Thor Walker (online pseudonym AKILL) is a computer hacker living in New Zealand, who was discharged without conviction despite pleading guilty to several charges of 'cybercrime'. In 2008 he admitted to being the ringleader of an international hacking organization estimated to have caused $26 million worth of damage.\n\nWalker was home-schooled from the age of 13. He received no formal computer training, instead teaching himself programming and encryption. He had been diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome.\n\nWalker was arrested under sections 248-252 of New Zealand's Crime Act after international investigations by the FBI found him to be involved in an attack on the computer network of the University of Pennsylvania. The attack was orchestrated via a botnet established by Walker, using servers he exploited and rented, the majority of which were located in Malaysia.\n\nHe pleaded guilty to his connection in the crime, was fined for the cost of the damage to the University of Pennsylvania computer and was discharged without conviction, the presiding judge concluded that a conviction would only harm his future.\n\nIn 2008 he was hired by TelstraClear, the New Zealand subsidiary of Australian telecommunications company Telstra, to work with their security division DMZGlobal. As a security consultant, he presented seminars and appeared in advertising. TelstraClear spokesman Chris Mirams said it was not the equivalent of hiring a bank robber to advise on bank security.\n"}
{"id": "413242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413242", "title": "Paul Gascoigne", "text": "Paul Gascoigne\n\nPaul John Gascoigne (, born 27 May 1967) is an English former professional football player and manager. He is also known by his nickname, Gazza. He earned 57 caps during his England career and has been described by the National Football Museum as \"the most naturally gifted English midfielder of his generation\".\n\nBorn and raised in Gateshead, the midfielder signed schoolboy terms with Newcastle United, before turning professional with the top tier (pre-Premier League creation) club in 1985. Three years later he was sold on to Tottenham Hotspur for a £2.2 million fee. He won the FA Cup with Spurs in 1991, before being sold to Italian club Lazio for £5.5 million the following year. In July 1995, he was transferred to Rangers for £4.3 million, and helped the club to two league titles and two trophies. He returned to England in a £3.4 million move to Middlesbrough in March 1998. He made his debut in the Premier League in the 1998–99 season, having already featured in the 1998 Football League Cup Final. He switched to Everton in July 2000, and later had spells with Burnley, Gansu Tianma (China), and Boston United.\n\nHe was part of the England squad that reached fourth place in the 1990 FIFA World Cup, where he famously cried after receiving a yellow card in the semi-final with West Germany, which meant he would have been suspended for the final itself had England won the game. He also helped the team to the semi-finals of UEFA Euro 1996, scoring a goal against Scotland which was described as one of the best of the tournament. He has been involved in a number of high profile goal celebrations at both club and international level, including the \"dentist's chair\" celebration from Euro ‘96, and mimicking playing a flute with Rangers in 1998.\n\nIn the later parts of his career and especially following retirement, Gascoigne's life became dominated by severe mental and emotional problems, particularly alcoholism. He has been jailed or sectioned on numerous occasions and his personal struggles receive regular coverage in the British press. He has frequently attempted to live without alcohol, though rehabilitation programmes have provided only temporary relief. His personal issues ended his coaching career, and he has not worked in football since being dismissed as the manager of Kettering Town in 2005.\n\nGascoigne was born in Gateshead, County Durham on 27 May 1967. His father, John (1946–2018), was a hod carrier, and his mother, Carol, worked in a factory. He was named Paul John Gascoigne in tribute to Paul McCartney and John Lennon of the Beatles.\n\nHe attended Breckenbeds Junior High School, then the Heathfield Senior High School, both in the Low Fell area of Gateshead. He was noticed by football scouts while playing for Gateshead Boys, though failed to impress in a trial at Ipswich Town. Further trials at Middlesbrough and Southampton also proved unsuccessful, before the team he supported, Newcastle United, signed him as a schoolboy in 1980. He was usually overweight whilst signed to Newcastle and frequently got into trouble with his friend Jimmy \"Five Bellies\" Gardner, particularly when the pair were taken to court and fined over a hit and run incident. Newcastle chairman Stan Seymour described Gascoigne as \"George Best without brains\".\n\nWhile Gascoigne was successful on the football field, his childhood was marked by instability and tragedy. Initially his family lived in a single upstairs room in a council house with a shared bathroom, and moved several times during Gascoigne's early life. When he was ten, Gascoigne witnessed the death of Steven Spraggon, the younger brother of a friend, who was killed in a traffic collision. Around this time, his father began to suffer from seizures. Gascoigne began developing obsessions and twitches, and was taken into therapy at age ten, but soon quit the therapy sessions after his father expressed doubts over the treatment methods.\n\nGascoigne developed an addiction to gaming machines, frequently spending all his money on them, and also began shoplifting to fund his addiction. He experienced further tragedy when a friend, whom he had encouraged to join Newcastle United from Middlesbrough, died whilst he was working for Gascoigne's uncle on a building site.\n\nAt the age of 15, he took the decision to provide for his family – his parents and two sisters – financially, as he saw professional football as a way of earning more money than the rest of the family were capable of. He enjoyed football, and later wrote that \"I didn't have twitches or worry about death when I was playing football\". He was signed on as an apprentice at Newcastle on his sixteenth birthday.\n\nGascoigne captained Newcastle United's youth team to the FA Youth Cup in the 1984–85 season, and scored twice in the 4–1 victory over Watford in the final at Vicarage Road. Manager Jack Charlton handed Gascoigne his first team debut as a substitute for George Reilly in a 1–0 win over Queens Park Rangers on 13 April 1985 at St James' Park. At the age of 18 Gascoigne signed a two-year £120 a week contract at Newcastle, with the club also having a further two-year option clause.\n\nWillie McFaul took over as manager for the 1985–86 season, and named Gascoigne in his first eleven from the opening game of the campaign; he took the place of Chris Waddle, who had been sold to Tottenham Hotspur in the summer. He scored his first goal at home to Oxford United in a 3–0 victory on 21 September 1985, and claimed a further eight goals in the 1985–86 campaign. Newcastle finished 11th in the First Division that season and, at the end of it, Gascoigne was featured on the front cover of the \"Rothmans Football Yearbook\".\n\nHe scored five goals in 24 league games in the 1986–87 season, as the \"Magpies\" slipped to 17th place, just three points above the relegation play-offs.\n\nIn a 0–0 draw with Wimbledon at Plough Lane hard-man Vinnie Jones singled him out for attention, and in an incident that would become a much-publicised photograph, Jones grabbed him by the genitals as Gascoigne screamed in agony. Gascoigne subsequently sent Jones a red rose, and the two became good friends. He was named as the PFA Young Player of the Year and listed on the PFA Team of the Year in the 1987–88 season, and was the subject of offers from both Manchester United and Tottenham Hotspur. His first choice was Liverpool but with no offer forthcoming, Gascoigne promised Alex Ferguson that he would sign for Manchester United. Ferguson duly went on holiday to Malta, where he received the news that Gascoigne had signed for Spurs, for a record British fee of £2.2 million. In his 1999 autobiography, Ferguson claimed that Gascoigne was wooed into signing for Tottenham after they bought a house for his impoverished family.\n\nIn his first season at White Hart Lane Gascoigne helped Terry Venables's Spurs to sixth in the First Division, scoring seven goals in 37 appearances. They rose to third place in 1989–90, but were still 16 points behind champions Liverpool. He was named as BBC Sports Personality of the Year in 1990, and on accepting the award said that \"I haven't won anything in the game as yet. But the World Cup did help to put England on the map\". He was also named as Tottenham Hotspur's Player of the Year.\n\nGascoigne was named on the PFA Team of the Year in the 1990–91 season as Tottenham reached the FA Cup Final, with victories over Blackpool, Oxford United, Portsmouth, Notts County and North London derby rivals Arsenal. He scored the opening goal of the 3–1 victory over Arsenal at Wembley with a free-kick, one of six goals he scored in the competition. Going into the final against Nottingham Forest he had already agreed terms to join Italian club Lazio in an £8.5 million deal. However just 15 minutes into the game he committed a dangerous knee-high foul on Gary Charles and ruptured his own cruciate ligaments in his right knee. England teammate Stuart Pearce scored from the resultant free kick, and Gascoigne subsequently collapsed after the kick-off, forcing him to leave the match on a stretcher. Tottenham went on to win the Cup in extra-time.\n\nHe missed the entire 1991–92 season while he recovered, suffering a further knee injury in late 1991, when an incident at a nightclub on Tyneside kept him out for even longer. The saga over Gascoigne's proposed transfer to Lazio dominated the tabloid press throughout 1991, often overshadowing the key national news of that time – namely the recession and rise in unemployment that it sparked – although the broadsheet newspapers generally kept stories about Gascoigne confined to their back pages.\n\nGascoigne eventually joined Lazio for a fee of £5.5 million (equivalent to £ million in ); he received a £2 million signing-on fee and signed a contract worth £22,000 a week. He made his Serie A debut on 27 September 1992 in a match against Genoa which was televised in Britain as well as Italy. He failed to fully settle in Italy and was beset by negative media interest which was not helped by the numerous occasions he punched reporters and the time when he belched down a microphone on live television. He was well received by the club's fans, but not by the club's owner Sergio Cragnotti, who resented him after Gascoigne greeted him by saying \"Tua figlia, grande tette\" (roughly translated as \"Your daughter, big tits\"). His form was inconsistent in his first season at the Stadio Olimpico as he had previously spent a year out injured, but he endeared himself to Eagles fans when he scored in the 89th minute to equalise during the Rome derby against A.S. Roma. He broke his cheekbone whilst on international duty in April 1993, and had to play the remaining games of the season in a mask. Lazio ended the campaign in fifth place, which was considered a success as it meant qualification for European competition for the first time in 16 years.\n\nHe fell badly out of shape before the 1993–94 season and was told by manager Dino Zoff to lose two stone (13 kg) by the start of the campaign else he would lose his first team place. Gascoigne went on an extreme weight loss diet and succeeded in shedding the excess fat. He kept his place in the team and captained the club against US Cremonese when regular captain Roberto Cravero was substituted. However, in April he broke his leg in training whilst attempting to tackle Alessandro Nesta. Upon his recovery he was disgruntled with new head coach Zdeněk Zeman's stern fitness approach, and both club and player decided to part ways at the end of the 1994–95 season.\n\nGascoigne signed for Rangers in July 1995, for a club record fee of £4.3 million, on wages of £15,000 a week. He made an immediate impact; in the fifth league game of the season in the Old Firm match at Celtic Park he scored a goal after running almost the full length of the pitch. On 30 December, in a match against Hibernian, Gascoigne was booked by referee Dougie Smith after he picked Smith's yellow card up from the ground and jokingly 'booked' the referee. Rangers went on to win the league in the 1995–96 season, clinching the title in the penultimate game of the season against Aberdeen at Ibrox Stadium; Gascoigne scored a hat-trick during the game. Rangers won the double as they also won the Scottish Cup by knocking out Keith, Clyde, Inverness Caledonian Thistle and Celtic, before beating Heart of Midlothian 5–1 in the final at Hampden Park. He scored 19 goals in 42 appearances in all competitions, and was named as both PFA Scotland Players' Player of the Year and SFWA Footballer of the Year.\n\nRangers won the league title again in 1996–97, their ninth in succession. Gascoigne claimed hat-tricks against Kilmarnock and Motherwell, and ended the campaign with 17 goals in 34 games. However manager Walter Smith and assistant Archie Knox became increasingly concerned over Gascoigne's reliance on alcohol. The \"Gers\" won another double by winning the League Cup, knocking out Clydebank, Ayr United, Hibernian and Dunfermline Athletic en route to the final. Rangers beat Hearts 4–3 in the final at Celtic Park, with Gascoigne scoring two goals and Ally McCoist claiming the other two.\n\nIn November 1997, Gascoigne received a five-match ban after being sent off for violent conduct during the Old Firm derby following an incident with Celtic midfielder Morten Wieghorst. In January 1998, Gascoigne courted serious controversy during a goal celebration where he mimed playing a flute (symbolic of the flute-playing of Orange Order marchers) during an Old Firm match at Celtic Park. The gesture infuriated Celtic fans who had been taunting him and Gascoigne was fined £20,000 by Rangers after the incident. He also received a death threat from an Irish Republican Army (IRA) member following the incident. The 1997–98 season was not a success, as Gascoigne scored just three goals in 28 games and Rangers failed to win any trophies, losing the league title to Celtic.\n\nGascoigne left Scotland to join Middlesbrough for £3.45 million in March 1998, where former England teammate Bryan Robson was manager. His first match was the 1998 Football League Cup Final defeat to Chelsea at Wembley, where he came on as a substitute. He played seven games in the First Division, helping \"Boro\" into the Premier League as runners-up to Nottingham Forest at the end of the 1997–98 season.\n\nBefore the 1998–99 campaign began, Gascoigne began suffering from blackouts after blaming himself for the death of a friend, who died after Gascoigne and a group of friends went on a night out drinking. Despite his ongoing personal problems and his spell in rehab, Gascoigne started the season in good form and helped Middlesbrough into fourth place by Christmas. They ended the season in ninth place and having scored three goals in 26 top-flight games Gascoigne was linked with a recall to the England squad, who were now managed by former teammate Kevin Keegan and lacking a creative presence in midfield.\n\nHis career went into terminal decline during the 1999–2000 campaign, with Gascoigne breaking his arm after elbowing opposition midfield player George Boateng in the head during Middlesbrough's 4–0 defeat to Aston Villa at the Riverside Stadium. He subsequently received a three match ban and £5,000 fine from the Football Association.\n\nGascoigne signed a two-year contract with Everton, managed by former Rangers boss Walter Smith, after joining on a free transfer in July 2000. He started the 2000–01 season well despite not playing every game due to his lack of fitness, but a series of niggling injuries and his ongoing depression took him out of the first team picture by Christmas.\n\nAfter spending time at an alcohol rehabilitation clinic in Arizona, Gascoigne was fit enough to play for the \"Toffees\" in the 2001–02 season, and he scored his first goal for the club – and last in English football – away to Bolton Wanderers on 3 November. However, he then suffered a hernia injury, which kept him out of action for three months. Walter Smith left Goodison Park in March, and Gascoigne left the club shortly after his successor, David Moyes, took charge.\n\nGascoigne finished the 2001–02 season with Stan Ternent's Burnley, where he made six First Division appearances. The club narrowly missed out on the play-offs, and he left Turf Moor after only two months. In 2002, he was inducted to the National Football Museum, being described as \"the most naturally gifted English midfielder of his generation\". Fellow England midfielder Paul Ince said that Gascoigne was \"the best player I've ever played with ... he had everything. He was amazing.\"\n\nIn summer 2002, Gascoigne went on trial with American club D.C. United, but rejected a contract.\n\nThen First Division Gillingham also made enquiries and Gascoigne had an unsuccessful trial with the club.\n\nIn February 2003, he signed a nine-month contract with China League One club Gansu Tianma in both a playing and coaching role. Gascoigne scored in his first match in China, and in total scored two goals in four league games but his mental state meant that he had to return to America for treatment against drink and depression in April, and he never returned despite the club ordering him to do so.\n\nIn July 2004, Gascoigne was signed as player-coach by League Two side Boston United, and upon signing spoke of his coaching aspirations, saying that \"I can become a great coach and a great manager\". Gascoigne left Boston after he made five appearances in a three-month spell, citing professional reasons including his coaching career.\n\nGascoigne was called up to the England under-21 side in summer 1987, and scored with a free-kick in his debut in a 2–0 win over Morocco. He went on to win 12 caps for the under-21s under Dave Sexton.\n\nGascoigne was first called up to the full England squad by Bobby Robson for a friendly against Denmark on 14 September 1988, and came on as a late substitute for Peter Beardsley in a 1–0 win. He scored his first goal for England in a 5–0 victory over Albania at Wembley on 26 April 1989. He made his first start in the following game against Chile, and kept his first team place for most matches in the run in to the 1990 FIFA World Cup. He also played four games for the England B team. He secured his place in the World Cup squad in a 4–2 win against Czechoslovakia when he scored one goal and was a key component in the other three.\n\nHe played in all three of the group games in the 1990 World Cup in Italy, and England topped Group F, Gascoigne providing the assist for Mark Wright's winner against Egypt. In the first knockout game against Belgium he made another assist after chipping a free-kick into the penalty area, where David Platt volleyed the ball into the net. Gascoigne was at the centre of the action again in the quarter-final clash with Cameroon when he gave away a penalty, which Cameroon converted. In extra-time he made a successful through-ball pass from which Gary Lineker won, and subsequently scored a penalty, which proved to be the winning goal.\n\nOn 4 July 1990, England played West Germany in a World Cup semi-final match at Juventus's Stadio delle Alpi in Turin. Gascoigne, having already received a yellow card during England's 1–0 victory over Belgium in the second round, was booked for a foul on Thomas Berthold, which meant that he would be suspended for the final if England won the match. Television cameras showed that he had tears in his eyes following the yellow card and made Gascoigne a highly popular figure with the sympathetic British public. The match culminated in a penalty shoot-out, which the Germans won after Stuart Pearce and Chris Waddle missed their penalties. \n\nRobson quit the England job after the tournament, and his successor Graham Taylor dropped Gascoigne in favour of 32-year-old Gordon Cowans in a Euro '92 qualifier against Ireland in November 1990, citing tactical reasons. He returned to the starting eleven for a friendly against Cameroon the following February, before injury in the FA Cup final three months later caused him to miss the next 21 England fixtures, including all of UEFA Euro 1992, where England failed to progress beyond the group stages.\n\nGascoigne returned to fitness in time for the opening qualifying game against Norway in October 1992, and before playing in the 1–1 draw he responded to a Norwegian television crew's request to say 'a few words to Norway' by saying \"fuck off Norway\". His message was broadcast on Norwegian television and he was forced to apologize for the remark. The following month he scored two goals in a 4–0 victory over Turkey. Qualification ended badly for England, as they ended in third place behind Norway and the Netherlands and missed out on a place in the 1994 FIFA World Cup.\n\nA broken leg in 1994 meant Gascoigne was unable to play for 15 months, but by the time he returned to fitness, Terry Venables – his former manager at Spurs – had been appointed as England manager. As England were hosting UEFA Euro 1996 they did not have to go through the qualification process, so they instead played numerous friendlies, most of which featured Gascoigne in the starting line-up. The last of these games was played in Hong Kong, after which numerous England players were photographed on a night out in which Gascoigne and several others having drinks poured into their mouths whilst sitting in the \"dentist's chair\". The tournament opened with a 1–1 draw with Switzerland, during which Gascoigne was substituted. He scored a memorable goal in the second game of the tournament, against Scotland, when he received the ball from Darren Anderton outside the Scotland penalty area, flicked the ball over Colin Hendry with his left foot and changed direction; Hendry was completely wrong-footed and, as the ball dropped, Gascoigne volleyed it with his right foot past Andy Goram. The goal was followed by the \"dentist's chair\" celebration referring to the incident before the tournament, where Gascoigne lay on the ground as if he were sitting in the dentist's chair, and teammates sprayed lucozade from bottles into his open mouth. England beat the Netherlands 4–1 to make it through to the knock-out stages. They then drew 0–0 with Spain before winning 4–2 on penalties, the last of which was converted by Gascoigne. England drew 1–1 with Germany in the semi-finals, and Gascoigne missed the chance to win the game in extra-time when he came inches away from connecting to an Alan Shearer cross yards in front of an unguarded German net. England lost to Germany in the resulting penalty shoot-out, with Gareth Southgate missing England's sudden death penalty.\n\nUnder Glenn Hoddle, Gascoigne was picked regularly and helped England win the Tournoi de France in 1997 ahead of Brazil, France and Italy. Qualification for the 1998 FIFA World Cup went down to the last group game against Italy at the Stadio Olimpico, and Gascoigne put in a disciplined and mature performance to help England secure the 0–0 draw that was enough to take them through to the tournament. However, British tabloid newspapers showed pictures of Gascoigne eating kebabs late at night with DJ friend Chris Evans only a week before the final squad was due to be chosen. Hoddle elected not to pick Gascoigne in the final squad and after hearing the news Gascoigne wrecked Hoddle's room in a rage before being restrained. Gascoigne was never to play for his country again, having won 57 caps and scored 10 goals.\n\nHaving already gained some coaching experience in China, Gascoigne signed for Boston United on 30 July 2004. After being at the club for 11 games he left (partly as a result of the club refusing to let him participate in the reality television show \"I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!\") on 5 October, to begin a football coaching course. After leaving Boston, he stated that he was interested in taking over as manager of Scottish side Greenock Morton, but this came to nothing.\n\nIn mid-2005 he spent two months as player-coach at the recently founded Portuguese team Algarve United, but he returned to England after a proposed contract never materialised. He was appointed manager of Conference North club Kettering Town on 27 October 2005, and also planned to put in enough money to own one-third of the club to show his commitment. Previous manager Kevin Wilson was appointed as director of football, and Paul Davis was appointed as the club's assistant manager. Bookmakers put odds on Gascoigne being dismissed before Christmas, though he insisted that he was at the club \"for the long haul\". Attempts to get new sponsors on board were successful, though results on the pitch soon went against Kettering. His tenure lasted just 39 days, and he was dismissed by the club's board on 5 December. The club's owner, Imraan Ladak, blamed Gascoigne's alcohol problems, stating that he drank almost every day he worked. Gascoigne later claimed that the owner had interfered incessantly and harboured ambitions of being a manager himself, despite knowing little about football. He was never on a contract at the club, and was never paid for his six weeks work, nor was he given the chance to invest money in the club as he had first planned.\n\nGascoigne came close to being appointed manager of Garforth Town in October 2010, and after weeks of talks between his agent and the club he decided to turn down the offer, though reiterated his desire to return to football management.\n\nAt the height of \"Gazzamania\" following the 1990 World Cup, he reached number 2 in the UK Top 40 with \"Fog on the Tyne\", a collaborative cover with Lindisfarne that earned him a gold disc. He established Paul Gascoigne Promotions and hired a number of staff to handle the hundreds of requests from companies wishing to use his likeness and/or endorsement to promote their products. He signed an exclusive deal with \"The Sun\", which did not prevent the newspaper from joining its rivals in sensationalising the various scandals he became embroiled in. He promoted two video games: \"Gazza's Superstar Soccer\" and \"Gazza II\".\n\nIn August 2006, he visited Botswana on behalf of the Football Association's international outreach week and played football with the children from the SOS Children's Village there. On 25 July 2009, Gascoigne appeared on a Sporting Heroes edition of the BBC television quiz \"The Weakest Link\", where he engaged in banter with host Anne Robinson. The next day he played in an England versus Germany charity football match to help raise funds for the Sir Bobby Robson cancer fund. He took part in the first edition of Soccer Aid in 2006, playing for an England team captained by Robbie Williams.\n\nIn August 2014, Gascoigne began playing amateur football after signing for Bournemouth Sunday League Division Four team Abbey. In 2015 Paul Gascoigne was the subject of a documentary called \"Gascoigne\".\n\nA creative, hard-working, and technically gifted playmaker who played as an attacking midfielder, Gascoigne was capable both of scoring and setting up goals, due to his passing accuracy and his powerful striking ability. Gascoigne was gifted with pace, physical strength, balance, and excellent dribbling skills, which allowed him to protect the ball, beat opponents, and withstand physical challenges. Despite his talent, he was also criticised for his erratic behaviour and aggression on the pitch. His turbulent and often unhealthy lifestyle off the pitch, and his tendency to pick up injuries, are thought to have affected his career.\n\nGascoigne married his long-term girlfriend Sheryl (née Failes) in Ware, Hertfordshire, in July 1996, after they had been together for around six years. He later admitted to violence towards Sheryl during their marriage. They divorced in early 1999. In 2009 Sheryl published a tell-all book entitled \"Stronger: My Life Surviving Gazza\". Gascoigne had a son, Regan, with Sheryl and also adopted Sheryl's two children from her first marriage, Mason and Bianca. Bianca is a glamour model and television personality, and appeared on reality TV show \"Love Island\".\n\nDuring the 1990s Gascoigne, Danny Baker and Chris Evans had a much publicized friendship, and Gascoigne frequently appeared on their radio and television shows on \"Talksport\" and \"TFI Friday\".\n\nIn November 2008, Gascoigne was faced with a bankruptcy petition over a £200,000 tax bill, having not filed any tax returns for more than two years. On 25 May 2011 he avoided being declared bankrupt by the High Court in London, despite still owing £32,000.\n\nIn October 2015 he was fined and made the subject of a restraining order for harassing an ex-girlfriend and assaulting a photographer. In September 2016, Gascoigne admitted using \"threatening or abusive words or behaviour\" after telling a racist joke in November 2015 and racially abusing his black bodyguard. He was fined £1,000 and was ordered to pay £1,000 in compensation.\n\nOn 27 December 2016 Gascoigne was hospitalised with head injuries including broken teeth after being kicked in the back down stairs in a London hotel, where he allegedly made racist remarks according to a witness. In July 2017 his assailant was jailed for 23 weeks and ordered to pay £7,800 compensation.\n\nGascoigne was hailed as a hero after, on 17 April 2017, he reportedly confronted and repelled would-be burglars of a neighbour's home near his own in Poole. He was treated in hospital for injuries sustained.\n\nGascoigne has three autobiographies: \"Gazza: My Story\" (with Hunter Davies) published in 2004, \"Being Gazza: Tackling My Demons\" (with Hunter Davies and John McKeown), published in 2006, and \"Glorious: My World, Football and Me\", published in 2011. In \"Gazza: My Story\", and in \"Being Gazza: Tackling My Demons\", he refers to treatment for bulimia, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), bipolar disorder, and alcoholism. The books also describes his addictive personality, which has led him to develop addictions of varying severity on alcohol, cocaine, chain smoking, gambling, high-caffeine energy drinks, exercise, and junk food.\n\nGascoigne first entered therapy sessions in October 1998 when he was admitted into Priory Hospital after a drinking session where he drank 32 shots of whisky which left him at \"rock bottom\"; then-manager Bryan Robson signed him into the clinic whilst Gascoigne was unconscious. He was released, at his own insistence, two weeks into the suggested minimum stay of 28 days. His subsequent visits to the Priory became more infrequent, and he eventually returned to drinking alcohol.\nIn 2001 Gascoigne's then-chairman Bill Kenwright contacted Gascoigne's therapist at the Priory, John McKeown, who organised more treatment to help Gascoigne to control his drinking. As part of the treatment he was sent to the United States where he had a stay at a clinic in Cottonwood, Arizona. He was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. He stayed at the clinic in 2003 after he suffered low points working in China, and again in 2004 after retiring from football.\n\nIn February 2008 he was sectioned under the Mental Health Act after an incident at the Malmaison Hotel in Newcastle upon Tyne. He was taken into protective custody to prevent self-harm. He was sectioned again in June, and in September he was hospitalised after he overdosed on alcohol and drugs in an apparent suicide attempt.\n\nGascoigne was arrested for a disturbance outside a takeaway in February 2010. The following month he was charged with drunk driving, driving without a licence, and driving without insurance. On 9 July 2010 Gascoigne appeared at the scene of the tense stand-off between the police and the fugitive Raoul Moat, claiming to be a friend of Moat and stating that he had brought him \"a can of lager, some chicken, a fishing rod, a Newcastle shirt and a dressing gown.\" He was denied access to Moat. In August 2011 Gascoigne sued \"The Sun\", claiming that its coverage of him during the Raoul Moat incident interrupted his treatment for alcoholism.\n\nIn October 2010, Gascoigne was arrested for drunk driving. He subsequently admitted being more than four times over the limit at Newcastle upon Tyne Magistrates Court. One day after being warned he could face a prison sentence for drunk driving, Gascoigne was arrested for possession of cocaine. He should have appeared in court on 11 November to be sentenced for the drink driving offence, but instead he went into rehab on the south coast of England. He was given an eight-week suspended sentence on 9 December 2010.\n\nIn February 2013 his agent, Terry Baker, told BBC Radio 5 Live that Gascoigne had relapsed again: \"He won't thank me for saying it but he immediately needs to get help ... His life is always in danger because he is an alcoholic. Maybe no one can save him – I don't know. I really don't know.\" Gascoigne was placed in intensive care in a US hospital while being treated for alcoholism in Arizona in a rehabilitation programme thanks to financial support provided by ex-cricketer Ronnie Irani and broadcaster Chris Evans. He was arrested for assaulting a railway security guard and being drunk and disorderly at Stevenage railway station on 4 July 2013; he was fined £1,000 after admitting the offence, and ordered to pay £100 compensation to the guard.\n\nIn January 2014 Gascoigne entered rehab for his alcohol addiction for a seventh time at a £6,000-a-month clinic in Southampton. In August he was again admitted to hospital in relation to his problems following an incident outside his home. On 23 October 2014, police were called to his home in Poole after he was in a drink binge; he was sectioned under the Mental Health Act the next day and taken to a hospital for a three-day detox.\n\nOn 6 January 2017, a spokesman for Gascoigne confirmed that he had entered a rehabilitation centre in a serious effort to stay “alcohol-free” in 2017.\n\nOn 20 August 2018, Gascoigne was arrested at Durham station by British Transport Police for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman on board a train. In November 2018 he was charged with sexual assault and was due to appear in court on the charge in December 2018.\n\nNewcastle United\n\nTottenham Hotspur\n\nRangers\n\nMiddlesbrough\n\nEngland\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13938381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13938381", "title": "Percy Anderson", "text": "Percy Anderson\n\nPercy Anderson (1851 – 30 October 1928) was an English stage designer and painter, best known for his work for the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree's company at His Majesty’s Theatre and Edwardian musical comedies.\n\nAnderson's first significant production was the comic opera \"Lady of the Locket\", composed by William Fullerton Jr. with a libretto by Henry Hamilton. Beginning with \"The Yeomen of the Guard\" (1888), Anderson designed the costumes for all the original productions of the Savoy Operas. He continued to design costumes for D'Oyly Carte revivals in the early twentieth century, including for \"Trial by Jury, H.M.S. Pinafore, The Pirates of Penzance, Patience, Iolanthe, Princess Ida, Ruddigore, The Yeomen of the Guard,\" and \"The Gondoliers.\" For Herbert Beerbohm Tree at His Majesty's Theatre, Anderson designed \"Twelfth Night, The Merry Wives of Windsor, Richard II, King John, A Midsummer Night’s Dream, The Tempest\", and two plays by Stephen Phillips, \"Herod\" and \"Ulysses\". He designed the costumes for Henry James’s ill-fated theatrical effort, \"Guy Domville\"; \"The Times\" was not impressed by either the play or the costumes.\n\nAmong Anderson's other successes were \"Trelawny of the 'Wells'\" (1898), \"Merrie England\" (1902), \"Véronique\" (1904), the hit British premiere of \"The Merry Widow\" in 1907, \"Fallen Fairies\" (1909), \"Kismet\" (1911) and \"Chu Chin Chow\" (1916). He designed the costumes for various productions of Edwardian musical comedies for George Edwardes, such as the hit musical \"San Toy\" in 1899 and \"The Duchess of Dantzic\" in 1903. The Royal Opera House commissioned Anderson to design costumes in 1900. Anderson's designs were also used in a number of Broadway productions.\n\nAnderson had private means, and for a time roomed with Morton Fullerton. He was part of a circle of rich, artistic homosexual men, who included Lord Ronald Gower, the courtier Alec Yorke and Hamilton Aïdé. In the 1910s, Anderson was closely associated with the young novelist Hugh Walpole\n\n\"The Times\", in its obituary notice, said of Anderson that he escaped from the pedantry of his predecessors and paved the way in a most interesting manner for Bakst, Claud Lovat Fraser and Gordon Craig. As a painter, Anderson achieved a modest success, and his portraits hang in the collections of the National Portrait Gallery, the Louvre, and the British Museum. He illustrated the 1907 book, \"Costume: Fanciful, Historical and Theatrical\".\n\nAnderson died in King's College Hospital, London, in 1928, aged 76 or 77.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1870568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870568", "title": "Peter van Diest", "text": "Peter van Diest\n\nPeter van Diest (Latinised as Petrus Diesthemius) was a medieval writer from the Low Countries. The late-15th-century morality play \"Elckerlijc\" is attributed to him.\n\n\"Elckerlijc\", which was translated into English to become the famous \"Everyman\", has come down to us in manuscripts that fail to mention the play's author. A 1539 Latin translation by Georgius Macropedius, however, states that its original author is one Petrus Diesthemius ('Peter of Diest'). Little else is known of this writer; he has been identified with the Carthusian monk Petrus Dorlandus (1454–1507), who lived in Diest (in present-day Belgium) and wrote lives of the saints. This identification, however, is controversial among philologists.\n"}
{"id": "35004553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35004553", "title": "Pierina Gilli", "text": "Pierina Gilli\n\nPierina Gilli (August 3, 1911 – January 12, 1991), was a Roman Catholic Italian visionary born in the municipality of Montichiari which is located in the Brescia province of the Lombardy region in northern Italy). She died there when she was 79 years old. She is mainly known as the mystic seer to whom the Blessed Virgin Mary revealed herself as Rosa Mystica, especially in regard to Our Lady's maternal role pertaining to her deeply beloved consecrated souls of priests and of male and female members of religious institutes within the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nPierina Gilli was born on August 3, 1911, in the San Giorgio section of the northern Italian municipality of Montichiari. Her parents, Pancrazio Gilli and Rosa Bartoli, had three children, of which Pierina was the eldest. Her family was poor, as her father worked as a daily hired farm-worker. Due to its limited household income, the family often moved to various residences in Montichiari.\n\nWhen Pierina was seven years old her father, died, leaving her mother to support the three children. Between 1918 and 1922, Pierina was placed in a Montichiari orphanage, conducted by the sisters of the Handmaids of Charity. This experience had a lasting impact on Pierina. Pierina received her First Holy Communion in the orphanage when she was eight.\n\nPierina returned to her family to assist her mother with the care of her two younger siblings, at the age of 11. At age 12, her mother (who was now remarried), and eight siblings moved to live in a cottage with her step-family. Pierina claimed she had received inappropriate attention from her step-father. Although not wishing to introduce any discord into these two families that were now living together, Pierina eventually confided everything to her mother.\n\nPartly due to that trauma, Pierina decided to consider a vocation in the religious life at age seventeen. Her confessor advised her to wait, in order to further discern any genuine religious calling to the consecrated life.\n\nDespite all of Pierina's troubles, a soothing glimpse of her caring and devout family upbringing can be observed by this early childhood reminiscence from Pierina's diary: \"I was the first of nine children, I the first to be delighted in the joy, the bliss, and the caresses of my parents. The day of 3 August 1911 was the dawn of my earthly coming, and I was baptized on August 5, the feast of the Madonna of the Snow; on that given day, my Mamma consecrated me to the true Mamma in Heaven, so that her maternal protection would preserve me as white and pure as snow. How many times my dear Mamma repeated to me, by spurring me to be good and not to be capricious, because I was consecrated to the Madonna and therefore I must love her very much.\".\n\nAt eighteen, Pierina worked as a children's assistant at a communal nursery school in Montichiari. When she was twenty years old, a marriage proposal was made to her by an honest and well-intentioned young man. For two months Pierina intimately suffered so much, because she did not feel herself to be called to the married life, but rather, she felt that the Lord wanted her totally for Himself. Her confessor finally spoke concerning her most genuine thoughts, thus confirming her vocation. Pierina was initially accepted as a postulant by the religious sisters' community of the Handmaids of Charity, but this soon had to be renounced for the first time by Pierina due to her health problems, including pleurisy, that persisted for several months. Pierina was in no condition to take her place among the postulants). Instead, forced by such circumstances, Pierina sought employment, and she worked for about seven years (from age 20 to 26: from 1931 to 1937) as a domestic servant of Father Giuseppe Brochini, and as caretaker of his elderly (frail and blind) mother, in the nearby small town of Carpenedolo.\n\nPierina then focused on obtaining her nursing license at the \"White Villa\" Care Home (managed by the Sisters of Charity of St. Antida Thouret) in the large city of Brescia. Subsequently, starting at age 29, and throughout the four years of World War II (1941–1945), she worked as a licensed nurse's aide in the Civil Hospital (managed by the Handmaids of Charity) in the smaller city of Desenzano del Garda, located on the southern shore of Lake Garda, within sight of the north Italian Alps.\n\nAlthough accustomed to many trials from an early age, and perhaps even because of those tribulations, Pierina was selected as the chosen visionary of Our Lady by becoming the faithful messenger of Mary the Mystical Rose (in Italian, \"Maria Rosa Mistica\"). It was believed that Our Lady the Mystical Rose expressed her Christian love by embracing the souls of all her human children, and by closely caressing, through the Immaculate Heart, those predilected souls in consecrated religious life.\n\nPierina devotedly underwent and patiently endured the innumerable physical, moral and spiritual sufferings as a dedicated quiet martyr and voluntary victim soul, to the end of her life.\n\nThe Handmaids of Charity is the Roman Catholic order of religious sisters' Montichiari orphanage was where the young adolescent Pierina stayed, and at whose Brescia postulancy house the adult Pierina (at age 32 years) entered the consecrated life in 1944.\n\nShe never attained the profession of final religious vows at this religious institute. Even so, this holy order of women deeply influenced and crucially impacted her spiritual growth and mystical development during her formative years, continuing well into her later life.\n\nPierina maintained detailed diaries of her many mystical experiences, in particular her spiritual visions and of the heavenly messages that were conveyed to her. From these documentary pages one can read of her encounters with Mary the Mystical Rose, and that they were anticipated and prepared for by Pierina's preliminary visions of Sister Mary Crucified of the Rose. Sister Mary Crucified of the Rose was the foundress of the congregation of the Handmaids of Charity, who was beatified on May 26, 1940 by Pope Pius XII (Eugenio Maria Giuseppe Giovanni Pacelli: 1876-1958) and then canonized a saint on June 12, 1954 by him.\n\nOn April 14, 1944, Pierina, then 32 years old, was accepted as a postulant by the Handmaids of Charity where she was subsequently assigned as a nurse at the Children's Hospital in the city of Brescia. On December 1, 1944, Pierina contracted meningitis, and was taken to her religious order's infirmary in Ronco for infectious isolation and medical treatment. The infirmary was located in a tiny section of the small Alpine village of Corteno Golgi, in the Brescia province. After twelve days in a comatose state Pierina was administered the Last Rite sacrament of Extreme Unction).\n\nBeginning December 17, 1944, the Blessed Sister Mary Crucified of the Rose started to appear to her, as recorded in the visionary's diary. She announced to Pierina that she would be cured, and that she would undergo future trials. This holy foundress of the Handmaids of Charity, had in her hands a vial of ointment that was given to her by Our Lady, and she anointed Pierina, saying comfortingly to her: \"You will be cured, but you will have a heavy cross to bear.\" Because of this, December 17, 1944 became the Blessed's feast day, which was moved to December 15 after her canonization as a saint in 1954.\n\nOn November 2, 1946, Pierina was stricken by an intestinal occlusion and was again taken to the Civil Hospital in the Montichiari. During the night of November 23–24, 1946, the Blessed Sister Mary Crucified of the Rose appeared to her again. Also, for the first time, the Madonna appeared, as described in Pierina's diary: \"Then I see the most beautiful Lady, as if transparent, dressed in purple with a white veil that descends from her head to her feet; she held her arms open, and I saw three swords piercing her heart.\" Our Lady did not speak to, nor converse with, Pierina at that time.\n\nA few months later, on March 12, 1947, after suffering heart failure followed by renal colic, Pierina had to be admitted again to the Civil Hospital of Montichiari, where she lost consciousness, She was assisted by her congregational sisters as well as by her mother and sisters, who feared that she might die. Again, Pierina convalesced slowly, and she would again have apparitions of Sister Mary Crucified of the Rose, even daily visions of her from June 11 to July 12, 1947, as well as a second apparition of the Blessed Virgin Mary with three swords piercing her Immaculate Heart. It was at 3:15 am on the night of June 1, 1947 when the Madonna said just three words to her: \"Preghiera, Sacrificio, Penitenza\", with Pierina becoming cured once more by the direct intervention of Our Lady. Pierina had offered her intense redemptive sufferings for the sake of the sacred sanctification of Roman Catholic consecrated souls (namely, for the priests and for the members of male and female religious institutes, as listed in the Holy See's \"Pontifical Yearbook\", in Italian, \"Annuario Pontificio\").\n\nDuring 1947, again the alleged apparitions of the Madonna as Mary the Mystical Rose, began speaking with Pierina. The first event occurred on June 1, 1947, in Pierina's room at the Civil Hospital of Montichiari. Pierina was very ill, again near the point of death. In her diary she described the appearance of Mary, in a purple dress and long white veil and with three swords piercing her Immaculate Heart, the same as on the night of November 23–24, 1946; and so, on June 1, 1947, to the extremely sick Pierina, Our Lady spoke only these three words: \"Prayer, Sacrifice, Penance.\" Previously, during the month of May 1947, the mystic Pierina was being subjected to diabolical vexations and would have a vision of Hell. On July 1, 1947, there was another Marian apparition, during the recitation of the Rosary, and the Virgin has again she saw the three swords piercing her heart.\n\nThen, on July 13, 1947, there occurred the first \"grand\" apparition.\n\nAs noted in Pierina's diary, the Blessed Virgin Mary was accompanied by the Blessed Sister Mary Crucified of the Rose; and Our Lady appeared in a splendidly different manner: in a white dress and with a white cape around her head that reached to the floor; the three swords were on the floor, and on the chest of the Virgin were three roses: one white, one red, and one gold. She explained to Pierina, \"I am the Mother of Jesus and the Mother of all of you. Our Lord sends me to bring a new Marian devotion for all male and female institutes, religious orders, and secular priests. I promise those religious institutes, orders and secular priests who venerate me in this special way my special protection, an increase of spiritual vocations, few betrayed vocations, and great sanctity among the servants of God. I wish the 13th day of each month to be celebrated as the day of Mary. On the 12 preceding days, special prayers of preparation should be said.\" \n\nThe apparition continued...\n\nMary had identified herself as the Mother of Jesus and the Mother of all Humanity, explaining to Pierina the meaning of the three swords and the three roses. The first sword means loss of the vocation as a priest or a monk. The second sword means priests, monks, and nuns who live in deadly sin. The third sword means priests and monks who commit the treason of Judas. While giving up their vocation, they often lose also their faith, their eternal beatitude, and become enemies of the Church. The white rose means the spirit of prayer. The red rose means the spirit of expiation and sacrifice. The yellow or golden rose means the spirit of penitence.\n\nThus, Our Lady as Mary the Mystical Rose has kindly exhorted a new Marian devotion, in favor of all Roman Catholic religious institutes and priests, by specifically requesting to be honored with a special monthly Marian Day, on the 13th of every month, and most especially on July 13, in order to expiate for the many sinful offenses made particularly by consecrated souls. Additionally, on these first thirteen days of every month, Our Lady as Mary the Mystical Rose has precisely asked for the prayerful observance of the following four long-standing Roman Catholic devotional practices: the Holy Mass, the Holy Communion, the Holy Rosary, and the Holy Hour of Eucharistic Adoration.\n\nTherefore, two eminently different aspects of these Marian apparitions became manifested on June 1 and July 13, 1947 to Pierina Gilli. The first transformation pertains to Our Lady's auditory presence: the initially silent Madonna (first appearing on the night of November 23–24, 1946) \"then becomes\" the speaking Madonna (beginning on June 1, 1947). The second transformation pertains to Our Lady's visual presentation: the sorrowful and tearful Madonna (first appearing on the night of November 23–24, 1946: when Our Lady appears in purple dress and long white veil, covering her head and extending to her feet, and with three swords piercing her Immaculate Heart: this first manner represents her appearance as the grieving Madonna) \"then becomes\" the hopeful and resplendent Mary as the Mother of Jesus and the Mother of all Humanity (beginning on July 13, 1947: when Our Lady appears in white dress and long white cape, likewise covering her head and extending to the floor, and with three roses [white, red, and gold] adorning her Immaculate Heart: this second manner represents her appearance as Mary the Mystical Rose). Also, significantly, the apparitions of the Blessed Sister Mary Crucified of the Rose (that started on December 17, 1944) preceded, and then often accompanied, the apparitions of the Blessed Virgin Mary, particularly throughout these two eminent transformations, as though the Blessed Sister Mary guides Pierina Gilli to the Blessed Virgin Mary. \nLater in that same year, on October 22, 1947, at 7:00 pm, during a prayer meeting (while the Rosary was being recited by Pierina and some of her religious sisters and nurses and doctors and patients) in the chapel of the Montichiari hospital of Pierina's religious order where she was serving as a nurse, Pierina saw a luminous ray of light emanating from the Eucharist tabernacle to a nearby statue of Blessed Sister Mary Crucified of the Rose (holding a crucifix). She saw the statue of the Blessed and the figure on the Crucifix seemed to become animated; Pierina rose up and knelt in front of the statue, and, from the crucifix in its hands, were miraculously emerging drops of blood, which Pierina wiped dry with the purification cloth from the altar, as instructed by her holy foundress.\n\nThe Blessed Sister Mary then spoke grievingly to Pierina:\n\n\"See how much blood is lost uselessly\"; and next the holy foundress pleadingly asked Pierina to recite the following prayer: \"My Jesus, mercy, pardon our sins.\" Then, Mary the Mystical Rose appeared, announcing her final visitation to the premises of the Handmaids of Charity, by saying to Pierina: \"For the last time I come to request the devotion already recommended at other times. My divine Son wanted to leave proof by his most precious Blood in order to witness how great is his love for all humanity, from which is returned such great offenses. Get the purification cloth, and show it to all here present. Behold, the drops of blood of the Lord. Let it be covered by a white cloth, and then let it be exposed for three days in this chapel, together alongside with the statute of Sister Mary Crucified of the Rose that will become miraculous for the sake of the devotion of the faithful. Have the coming factual test be referred to the Bishop, and say to him that conversions and revival of faith will verify it. I interpose myself as Mediatrix between all human beings and particularly for religious souls and my divine Son who, tired of the continuously received offenses, wanted to exercise His justice. I vitally desire that this Institute of the Handmaids of Charity may be the first to honor me with the title of Mystical Rose. By such am I, as the protectress of all religious institutes, assuring my protection for a lively re-awakening in the Faith so that these elect souls may return to the primal spirit of their Founders.\" After a silent pause, Mary the Mystical Rose stretched open her arms and white mantle as a gesture and a sign of her protection, revealing again the three roses upon her chest, and saying sweetly to Pierina: \"Live for the sake of love!\", as Our Lady slowly disappeared from sight.\n\nSuccessive apparitions of Mary the Mystical Rose would then occur to Pierina, her chosen soul, while at the Dome of Montichiari \"il Duomo di Montichiari\" was a minor basilica, dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary under her title as Saint Mary of the Assumption on September 15, 1729. It was constructed on the site of an earlier church called Saint Mary Major, which was built in the 15th century.\n\nPerhaps prophetically, the city's name of Montichiari means the Clear Mountains in English. Thus, this Marian apparitional site (Santa Maria Assunta di Montichiari, in Italian) can be rendered into English as Saint Mary of the Assumption at the Clear Mountains It was there where she would further reveal herself as Mary the Mystical Rose – thereafter consistently wearing a long white dress, with only her bare feet and her hands uncovered, wearing a full-length white cowled cape around her face with wisps of her hair showing, clasped at the bottom of her neck, descending around her shoulders and down to the floor, opened in front (thus showing on her upper chest the characteristic three roses of white and red and gold, and sometimes even showing her glowing and radiant Immaculate Heart).\n\nAt the first such event in Montichiari's minor basilica of Saint Mary of the Assumption, on November 16, 1947, while Pierina was praying in thanksgiving after having attended the 7:00 a.m. Sunday Mass, it was near the altar in a wonderful light the Madonna as the Mystical Rose appeared in the midst of a garden of white and red and golden roses.\n\nShe asked Pierina to make, as an act of reparational humility, the sign of the Cross with her tongue on four tiles in the center of the basilica's floor. She requested prayer and sacrifice and penitence in reparation for the numerous offenses of humanity to the Lord. Pierina asked the Madonna if she would take her to heaven; Our Lady smiled and said to Pierina: \"If you can be generous, then many graces can be obtained for the whole world.\" Then, the Mystical Rose delicately joined together her hands in prayer, slowly turning away and distancing herself into a waning light.\n\nNext, during an interior locution to Pierina while praying in her hospital's chapel at mid-day on November 22, 1947, the Blessed Virgin Mary summoned her to meet at the Montichiari minor basilica at 4:00 p.m.; after conferring with her sister superior, Pierina, accompanied by five of her religious community's sisters, went to the basilica, where a few priests were already present.\n\nWhile they were reciting the Rosary, in a descending and increasingly luminous light Mary the Mystical Rose, surrounded by a tapestry of roses, appeared to Pierina, saying:\n\n\"I have come down to this place because here will be great conversions.\" Then, Our Lady specifically pre-announced (the only time that she would ever do so) that her upcoming visitation to this basilica would occur on December 8 the feast day of the Immaculate Conception, at 12:00 noon, in order to solemnly request the \"Hour of Grace\".\nOn Sunday, December 7, 1947, the eve of the feast of the Immaculate Conception, while Pierina was being visited by and conversing with some relatives at her hospital, she received an inner locution to come quickly to the Montichiari basilica. Taking leave of her relatives and going to her superior Mother Luigia Romanin, they proceeded to the basilica, along with Pierina's priest confessor Father Luigi Bonomini: they prayed the Miserere and were just beginning to recite the Rosary, when in a flash of light the Madonna appeared, beautiful and smiling, with two small angelic children (a boy clasping her right hand and a girl clasping her left hand, both dressed in shining white robes and headbands: they were identified as the Fatima children, by Mary the Mystical Rose). Our Lady spoke to Pierina Gilli, addressing her and her mother superior Luigia Romanin and her priest confessor Father Luigi Bonomini:\n\"I have come to bring graces and blessings to the three of you, for the work and sacrifices that you have done for my intentions.\" She confided some secrets to Pierina, and then with a penetrating glance said to her: \"Tomorrow at noon I shall come and show you a smallest part of Paradise. ... Tomorrow I will show you my Immaculate Heart, so little known by humanity. At Fatima I made known the devotion of consecration to my Heart. At Bonate I sought to make this penetrate into Christian families. Instead here at Montichiari I desire to deeply enkindle the Mystical Rose devotion; united with the devotion to my Heart, it comes profoundly into religious institutes, so that religious souls may draw abundant graces from my maternal Heart. With this apparition for the sanctification of religious souls, I close the cycle of such apparitions.\" Our Lady promised that she would continue to provide special graces for the Handmaids of Charity, and she also specifically requested prayers (as at Fatima) for the conversion of Russia, whose soldiers were affecting the tranquility and peace of Russia itself and of many nations, and particularly of Italy at that time.\n\nThus, on December 7, 1947, accompanied by Jacinta and Francisco Marto, the two youngest of the three famous Marian visionary shepherd children of Fatima, Portugal, Mary the Mystical Rose had reappeared, explaining to the visionary Pierina as she wrote in her diary about these two heavenly children who were entrusted to her:\n\"They will be your companions in every tribulation. They also have suffered, although much younger than you.\" Francisco Marto (June 11, 1908 – April 4, 1919) and Jacinta Marto (March 11, 1910 – February 20, 1920), brother and sister to each other, died as victim souls in their very early teenage years.\nOn May 13, 2000, they were beatified as Blessed Francisco Marto and Blessed Jacinta Marto by Pope John Paul II (Karol Jozef Wojtyla: 1920-2005), at the Marian basilica renowned throughout the world as the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Fatima, in Portugal.\n\nIn the profound mystical sense of deep spiritual developments pertaining to these three inter-connected Marian apparitions that occurred within the 20th century, the story of Our Lady of Fátima (in Fátima, Portugal; during 1917) is thereby continued by the story of Our Lady of Ghiaie (in Bonate, Italy; during 1944) as well as by the story of Mary the Mystical Rose (in Montichiari, Italy; during 1946 to 1983).\n\nVarious aspects concerning these three Marian apparitions are explored and explained in \"La Madre della Chiesa, Rosa Mistica: Fatima, Bonate, Montichiari: Le Anime, La Famiglia, La Chiese (Mother of the Church, the Mystical Rose: Fatima, Bonate, Montichiari: The Souls, The Family, The Church)\", a book of testimonials, compiled over the course of four years and published in the Holy Year 1975, by Father Eligio Garbo; which informs mostly about the Montichiari apparitions but also presents the similarities and complementarities pertaining to the Fatima and Bonate and Montichiari supernatural events, as concisely noted on page 7:\n\"Thousands were the persons that assisted with the facts and at the apparitions of Montichiari: some have done notations and writings; many others even today can testify. Therefore we have collected and transcribed these manifestations of love, these recollections made about the Madonna. These remembrances moreover are reconnected, by the Madonna herself, about Fatima and about Bonate: at Fatima, the devotion and the consecration (of individual Souls) to the Immaculate Heart of Mary; at Bonate, the consecration and the sanctification of the Family; at Montichiari, the sanctification and the devotion lived by (religious) Vocations and by the Mystical Body, the Church, of which She is the Mother.\" \nAlthough Pierina was greatly discouraged and even pressured by numerous persons, including Monsignor Agostino Gazzoli, representing the Bishop of the Brescia diocese, from going to the Montichiari minor basilica at the time appointed (the noon hour of December 8, 1947) by the Blessed Virgin Mary, so as not to make a bad impression about herself. As the mid-day hour approached, Pierina, even though reproved and given injunctions by some authoritative ecclesiastical figures who tried mightily to dissuade her, with an inner strength that she herself could not explain, decisively said, at 11:30 a.m. on December 8, 1947: \"Now it is necessary that I go.\" Pierina would have preferred to have been accompanied by her supportive mother and the sister superior of her hospital, but she hastily reached the destination on her own, arriving at Montichiari's minor basilica of Saint Mary of the Assumption, just at the noon hour.\n\nSignificantly, on December 8, 1947, at 12:00 noon, Mary the Mystical Rose resplendently appears to Pierina in the Montichiari basilica, where about a thousand persons are attending the Mass for the feast of the Immaculate Conception. As had been pre-announced (the only instance when any of Our Lady's apparitions was specifically noted before-hand to Pierina), the visionary sees Mary the Mystical Rose majestically descending a wide staircase, beautifully lined with numerous white and red and gold roses, to the center of the basilica's floor; and Our Lady says to Pierina:\n\nAnd then, as soon as Pierina was seeing on the Madonna's breast, in a blazing light, her Immaculate Heart, there simultaneously was happening in the basilica the two attributed miraculous cures, regarding a paralyzed child and a mute woman.\n\nThese two instantaneous healings involved: a young boy Ugo Senici about six years old, having suffered from polio and not being able to stand or to walk (who suddenly ran around and jumped up and down excitedly; later in life he would marry); and a 26-year-old woman Teresina Magli, having suffered for nine years from severe tuberculosis and not being able to speak even a word (who suddenly sang out a spontaneous song of praise in a loud voice; she would soon thereafter become a pious nun, living sacrificially only to expiate for the sins of priests and of members of religious orders). A third miraculous cure also happened during the same time as the other two, involving a mentally disturbed 36-year-old woman, Lauriana Zamboni, who was healed at home while her supportive family members were praying for her inside Montichiari's minor basilica, precisely when Mary the Mystical Rose was appearing during the Hour of Grace.\n\nTherefore, Our Lady further revealed herself as Mary the Mystical Rose on December 8, 1947; and moreover, she requested that the Hour of Grace be celebrated annually on December 8 at 12:00 noon.\n\nAfter these episodes at Montichiari's minor basilica of Saint Mary of the Assumption, Pierina was soon investigated and closely interrogated by the diocesan ecclesiastical authorities. Subsequently, she secluded herself, at age 38 years, on May 20, 1949, at the convent of the Franciscan Sisters of the Holy Child (whose superior was Sister Agnese Lanfaloni) in Brescia, Italy. She would not become a member of that religious order.\n\nPierina stayed at this convent for 19 years, rendering her nursing services to this community of religious sisters, even though Pierina herself sometimes needed to be cared for. Pierina had placed herself under the spiritual guidance of Fr. Giustino Carpin, O.F.M.Conv.(superior of the Conventual Franciscan Fathers in Brescia, Italy that would span 20 years.\n\nPierina then found that the Marian apparitions occurred very rarely for a long time, but they were to return newly intensified in 1966.\n\nAccording to the testimony of Francesca (Franca) Dal Ri Cornado (1924–1993: foundress of the [Roman Catholic] Charismatic Movement of Assisi, in Brescia, Italy), the apparitions of Pierina were resumed as a requested sign, by their mutual spiritual director, Fr. Giustino Carpin, O.F.M.Conv., in order to verify the interior locutions that Franca Cornado had been receiving since 1958.\n\nReportedly, Fr. Giustino had invited Franca, without entering into any details, to ask for an especial grace from the Lord – and the grace was exactly that his other spiritual daughter Pierina would see again the Madonna who had promised to newly manifest herself without specifying when and where. Over time, Fr. Giustino and Pierina became close friends.\n\nAs vaguely pre-announced on February 27, 1966, Our Lady as Mary the Mystical Rose would reappear to Pierina, then being almost 55 years old, on April 17, 1966, Whitsunday (White Sunday, \"domenica in albis\"), near a spring of water located at Fontanelle (in English, the Little Fountains), a small locality about three kilometers from the center of Montichiari, in the direction of Carpenedolo. The Madonna communicated the following message, pertaining to the small stairway leading down to the spring, as recorded in Pierina's diary:\n\n\"My Divine Son Jesus is all love. He has invited me to render miraculous this spring. As a sign of penance and of purification, give a kiss to the (top) step, then go down a few steps, stop, then give another kiss and go down further. For a third time, give again a kiss to the (bottom) step, and here can be placed the Crucifix. The sick and all my children, before taking and drinking the water, should ask pardon from my Divine Son. ... Now here is your mission, in the midst of the sick and the needy.\"\nIn a second apparition at Fontanelle, on May 13, 1966, the 49th anniversary of the first apparition of Our Lady of Fatima, Mary the Mystical Rose conveyed to Pierina to call the spring \"The Font of Grace\", inviting humanity to prayer, to sacrifice, and to penance, in order to save ourselves from ruin.\n\nThe third apparition happened on June 9, 1966. The Solemnity of Corpus Christi: the Blessed Virgin would express her desire according to which a part of the grain from the nearby fields would be transformed into \"the Eucharistic Bread\" and brought to Fatima on October 13. Moreover, she would express also her desire that the people of Montichiari would consecrate themselves to her Immaculate Heart.\n\nIn the fourth and final apparition at Fontanelle, on August 6, 1966, the feast of the Transfiguration of Jesus, the Madonna would request the institution of \"the World Union of Reparative Communion\", to be held on October 13; additionally, her function as the mediatrix between her Son and humanity was recorded, by adjoining:\n\n\"I have chosen this place of Montichiari because in its children that work the soil, there is still humility as in a poor Bethlehem.\"\n\nFontanelle is a small section (fraction, or \"frazione\") of Montichiari. Thus, even prophetically and spiritually in its meek humbleness and mere littleness, Maria Rosa Mistica a Fontanelle di Montichiari can be rendered from Italian into English as Mary the Mystical Rose at the Little Fountains of the Clear Mountains.\n\nSince then, at Fontanelle (the Little Fountains, the springs of living water), there has been established the Sanctuary of Mary the Mystical Rose (in Italian, il Santuario di Maria Rosa Mistica), which is sometimes also referred to as \"the little Lourdes of Italy\" (in Italian, \"la piccola Lourdes italiana\"). Even the Blessed Virgin Mary, appearing as the Mystical Rose to Pierina Gilli, said on May 19, 1970:\n\n\"Montichiari can be a second Lourdes.\"\n\nPierina began a very reclusive life from the late 1960s onwards, living simply and prayerfully in a donated little, humble house with a small prayer chapel (dedicated to Mary the Mystical Rose), making herself quietly available at her private home (in Montichiari's section or \"frazione\", called Boschetti, which in English means \"the little forests\"), in order to receive cordially and to pray fervently with the visitors coming on pilgrimage to Fontanelle (and to the Montichiari minor basilica), while the Marian apparitions and messages were continuing thereafter.\n\nThe last recorded Marian apparition occurred on March 24, 1983 to Pierina, being 71 years old, in her Boschetti home, Mary the Mystical Rose would express her desire to see the realization of a special Marian Sanctuary with five cupolas in Montichiari, and Our Lady would specifically request that progress be made in producing a Mystical Rose Sanctuary medal according to her instructions.\n\nPierina Gilli, at the age of 79, died on January 12, 1991, at Montichiari, in the Boschetti section.\nAfter Pierina's death, during the 1990s and 2000s (decade), despite the local Brescia diocese's generally unsupportive historical stance, some 40 reported apparitions of Our Lady, a few times as the sorrowful Madonna, though mostly as Mary the Mystical Rose; as recorded in Pierina Gilli's diaries.\n\nThe number of pilgrims coming to Fontanelle and Montichiari has increased – so much that since May 5, 2001, Father Piero Boselli (as named by Bishop Giulio Sanguineti; and as assisted by Father Emilio Treccani) has been serving as director in regard to the spiritual care and needs of the numerous pilgrims, coming not only from Italy and other nearby European countries such as Germany and Austria but also from other nations as well, even as far away as from Brazil; as permitted by Bishop Giulio Sanguineti,\n\nSociologist Bruno Massaro has researched the apparitions, and has written a book on his findings \"The Case of Pierina Gilli of Montichiari\" (2003).\n\nIn relation to Montichiari and to Fontanelle, the spiritual conversions and the miraculous cures and the liberation from diabolical possessions are still continuing, accompanied by other supernatural signs, such as (for examples) solar prodigies and luminous crosses in the sky.\n\nThe following five pronouncements were made over the course of several decades by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brescia as cited by Alfredo Tradigo:\n\n\nNearly all of the Brescia diocesan bishops' pronouncements have been generally cautious and not openly approving, yet not entirely negative, judgments; although, in view of the spiritual needs of the faithful multitudes who have continuously and increasingly been coming on pilgrimages to the Montichiari minor basilica and to the springs at Fontanelle. These pilgrimages are based on their devotion to Mary the Mystical Rose.\n\nBishop Giulio Sanguineti in a supportive manner has appointed since May 5, 2001, and which still remains in effect, Monsignor Piero Boselli, Director of the Liturgical Office of the Diocesan Curia, as the Presider of a constituted Committee, \"with the purpose of watching over the devotional manifestations, while avoiding what might rest entrusted to the arbitrariness of occasional (casual) and passing-through priests\"; moreover, \"Responsible for the activities and for the judgment of Marian devotions is the diocesan Bishop only, in which the singular care directed on the part of the Diocese can avoid the possible multiplications of episodes tending to reinforce some simple convictions around presumed extraordinary phenomena. This responsibility is necessarily retained also to avoid slightly illuminated devotional practices and certain forms of tendentious preachings.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17956318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17956318", "title": "Ramani Ayer", "text": "Ramani Ayer\n\nRamani Ayer (born 27 May 1947 in Kerala, India) is an Indian-American business executive, and the CEO and chairman of The Hartford from 1997 to 2009.\n\nAyer earned his bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay in 1969 and his Masters and Ph.D. from Drexel University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1973. Ayer has practiced Transcendental Meditation since the 1970s.\n\nRamani Ayer began working for The Hartford after receiving his Ph.D. in 1973.\n\nRamani Ayer became vice president of HartRe, The Hartford's reinsurance subsidiary in 1983, president of Hartford Specialty Company in 1986, and senior vice president of The Hartford in 1989. He then became executive vice president of The Hartford in 1990, and president and COO of the company's property-casualty operations in 1991. After being elected CEO in 1996, he took the office of chairman and CEO of The Hartford on 1 February 1997.\n\nIn 2007, Ayer was one of three foreign-born Indian-origin executives to run a Fortune 100 company.\n\nIn June 2009, after facing pressure from the company shareholders, Ramani Ayer announced his retirement from The Hartford by the end of the year. He stepped down as CEO on 1 October 2009. He received a $39.9 million lump sum pension in 2010, a particular pension plan provided by Hartford.\n\nWhile CEO, Ayer served as a member of the Business Roundtable representing The Hartford. Ayer sit on the board of directors for the American Insurance Association and the Hartford Hospital while also serving as a trustee of the Connecticut Center for Science and Exploration.\n\nIn 2011, Ramani Ayer was appointed to the board of directors of XL Group, a financial services company.\n\nAt the age 24, Ramani Ayer learned to meditate and completed the basic Transcendental Meditation program while studying at Drexel. He believes transcendental meditation has enabled him to manage professional and personal success. He also took part to the Global Peace Initiative. He serves on the board of Maharishi University of Management (MUM) where his son studied.\n\nRamani Ayer is a trustee of the David Lynch Foundation.\n\nRamani Ayer is married to Louise. They have two children.\n"}
{"id": "40492477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40492477", "title": "Rina Hasyim", "text": "Rina Hasyim\n\nRineke Antoinette Hassim (born 22 April 1947), best known by her stage name Rina Hasyim (also Hassim), is an Indonesian actress who has won both a Citra Award for Best Leading Actress and Citra Award for Best Supporting Actress.\n\nHasyim was born Rineke Antoinette Hassim in Makassar, South Sulawesi, on 22 April 1947. Raised strictly by her mother, she began rebelling and gravitated towards music. She was a member of the bands Dara Kusumah and Diskonit while a youth, playing the bass.\n\nAfter completing senior high school, Hasyim moved to the national capital in Jakarta. Living with her aunt, she began to work at a travel agency. She was soon invited to start modelling by Rima Melati, an actress and model. In 1968 she obtained her first film role, a bit part, in Turino Djunaidy's \"Orang-orang Liar\"; she obtained the role when her coworker at the travel agency, Mochtar, introduced her to Djunaidy.\n\nHasyim soon married Chris Pattikawa, an employee at the national broadcaster TVRI; the two had a son the following year. In 1970 she appeared in her second role, and first major one, playing a main character's girlfriend in the film \"Si Pitung\". Over the next 25 years Hasyim acted in over a hundred films, sometimes six a year. In 1995 she made \"Gairah & Dosa\", which proved her last feature film for over a decade. She instead focused on television. In 2007 Hasyim returned to cinema with \"Pocong 3\", a horror film about pocong. She has acted in several films since then, though not at as high a rate as during the 1980s.\n\n, Widjaja has acted in 113 films. She has been won several acting awards. In 1976 she won the Citra Award for Best Leading Actress for her role in \"Semalam di Malaysia\". In 1987 her role in \"Akibat Kanker Payudara\" garnered her a Best Supporting Actress at the Asia Pacific Film Festival. Four years later, she won the Citra Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role in \"Zig Zag (Anak Jalanan)\"; she had previously received five nominations for the award, in 1979, 1981, 1985, 1986, and 1988.\n\nSource: \n\n"}
{"id": "1100846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1100846", "title": "Robert Jervis", "text": "Robert Jervis\n\nRobert Jervis (born 1940) is the Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Politics in the Department of Political Science at Columbia University, and is a member of the Arnold A. Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies in the School of International and Public Affairs. He has been a member of the faculty since 1980. Jervis was the recipient of the 1990 University of Louisville Grawemeyer Award for Ideas Improving World Order. Jervis is co-editor of the Cornell Studies in Security Affairs, a series published by Cornell University Press, and the member of numerous editorial review boards for scholarly journals.\n\nRobert Jervis was born in 1940. He holds a B.A. from Oberlin College (1962) and a Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley (1968). From 1968 to 1972, he was an assistant professor of government at Harvard University, and was an associate professor from 1972 to 1974. From 1974 to 1980, he was a professor of political science at the University of California, Los Angeles. He served as the President of the American Political Science Association. He is the father of Lisa Jervis, who co-founded \"Bitch\" magazine.\n\nHe has worked on perceptions and misperceptions in foreign policy decision making. While Jervis is perhaps best known for two books in his early career, he also wrote \"System Effects: Complexity in Political and Social Life\" (Princeton, 1997). With \"System Effects\", Jervis established himself as a social scientist as well as an expert in international politics. Many of his latest writings are about the Bush doctrine, of which he is very critical. Jervis is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 2006 he was awarded the NAS Award for Behavior Research Relevant to the Prevention of Nuclear War from the National Academy of Sciences. He participated in the 2010 Hertog Global Strategy Initiative, a high-level research program on nuclear proliferation.\n\nBooks\n\nArticles\n\n"}
{"id": "53998106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53998106", "title": "Satish Chandra Basumatary", "text": "Satish Chandra Basumatary\n\nSatish Chandra Basumatary (16 November 1901 – 16 November 1974) was an Indian Bodo poet, dramatist, Social worker and the second president of Bodo Sahitya Sabha. He is a pioneer people of Bibar era, the age of renaissance of Bodo literature. He is credited with helping established Bodo Brahma Dharma. He was also the editor of first Bodo magazine Bibar in 1924.\nHe was honoured Mengnw Rwngwi Jwhwlao title after his death.\n\nHe was born on 16 November 1901 at Balukmari village in Dhubri district (present Kokrajhar) into Bodo family Thandaram Basumatary and Khowlou Basumatary. He started schooling from Dhubri High School, later went to Cotton College, Guwahati.\nHe died on 16 November 1974.\n\nDrama\n"}
{"id": "2528183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2528183", "title": "Serach (Khazar)", "text": "Serach (Khazar)\n\nIn the Schechter Letter, Serakh is the wife of the Khazar ruler Sabriel. A Jew, she encourages her husband and other Khazars to convert to Judaism and establish it as the official religion of Khazaria.\nSerakh is not mentioned in the Khazar Correspondence or the Kuzari. \n\nSome scholars have postulated that the Khazar conversion to Judaism came as a result of contact with existing Jewish populations in the Crimea and the Caucasus, possibly the ancestors of the Krymchaks or Mountain Jews. As with so much of Khazar studies, the absence of documentary evidence renders the question of whether Serakh belonged to one of these groups a matter of speculation.\n\n"}
{"id": "499512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=499512", "title": "Stacy Keach", "text": "Stacy Keach\n\nWalter Stacy Keach Jr. (born June 2, 1941) is an American actor of stage, film, and television. Highly prolific, he has played mainly dramatic roles throughout his career, often in law enforcement or as a private detective. His most prominent role was as Mickey Spillane's fictional detective Mike Hammer, which he played in numerous stand-alone television films and at least three different television series throughout the 1980s and 1990s. The role earned him a Golden Globe Award nomination in 1984.\n\nHe has also performed as a narrator for programs including CNBC'S \"American Greed\" (2008–) and various educational television programs. Comedic roles include his role in the Fox sitcom \"Titus\" (2000–2002) as Ken, the father of comedian Christopher Titus, and as Sergeant Stedenko in Cheech & Chong's films \"Up in Smoke\" (1978) and \"Nice Dreams\" (1981). His most recent recurring roles include two seasons as Henry Pope, the warden, in the series \"Prison Break\" (2005–2007); \"Pops\", the father of the main character from the boxing drama \"Lights Out\" (2011); the elderly father Bob on the sitcom \"Crowded\" (2016); and the father of Matt LeBlanc's protagonist Adam on \"Man With A Plan\" (2016–). Keach won a Golden Globe Award and was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for the television miniseries \"Hemingway\" (1988).\n\nKeach was born in Savannah, Georgia, to Mary Cain (née Peckham), an actress, and Walter Stacy Keach Sr., a theatre director, drama teacher, and actor. His brother James Keach is an actor and television director. Keach graduated from Van Nuys High School in June 1959, where he was class president, then earned two BA degrees at the University of California, Berkeley (1963): one in English, the other in Dramatic Art. He earned a Master of Fine Arts at the Yale School of Drama in 1966 and was a Fulbright Scholar at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art.\n\nWhile studying in London, Keach met Laurence Olivier, his acting hero.\n\nKeach played the title role in \"MacBird!\", an Off-Broadway anti-war satire by Barbara Garson staged at the Village Gate in 1966. In 1967, he was cast, again Off-Broadway, in George Tabori's \"The Niggerlovers\" with Morgan Freeman in his acting debut. To this day, Freeman credits Keach with teaching him the most about acting. In 1967, Keach also starred in \"We Bombed in New Haven,\" a play by Joseph Heller that premiered in New Haven at the Yale Repertory Theatre and later was produced on Broadway. Keach first appeared on Broadway in 1969 as Buffalo Bill in \"Indians\" by Arthur Kopit. Early in his career, he was credited as Stacy Keach, Jr. to distinguish himself from his father. He played the lead actor in \"The Nude Paper Sermon\", an avant-garde musical theatre piece for media presentation, commissioned by Nonesuch Records by composer Eric Salzman.\n\nKeach has won numerous awards, including Obie Awards, Drama Desk Awards and Vernon Rice Awards. In the early 1980s, he starred in the title role of the national touring company of the musical \"Barnum\", composed by Cy Coleman. In 1991 and 1996 he won Helen Hayes Awards for Outstanding Actor for his work in \"Richard III\" and \"Macbeth\" with the Shakespeare Theatre Company. In 1998, he was one of the three principals in a London production of \"Art\" with George Wendt.\n\nIn 2006, Keach performed the lead role in Shakespeare's \"King Lear\" at the Goodman Theatre in Chicago. In 2008, he played Merlin in Lerner and Loewe's \"Camelot\", done with the New York Philharmonic. In the summer of 2009, Shakespeare Theatre Company remounted the production of \"King Lear\" at Sidney Harman Hall in Washington, D.C., for which Keach won another Helen Hayes Award for Outstanding Actor.\n\nHe has played the title role in two separate productions of \"Hamlet\".\n\nIn 2008 and 2009, Keach portrayed Richard M. Nixon in the U.S. touring company of the play \"Frost/Nixon\".\n\nOn December 16, 2010, Keach began performances as patriarch Lyman Wyeth in the off-Broadway premiere of Jon Robin Baitz' acclaimed new play \"Other Desert Cities\". The production transferred to Broadway's Booth Theatre, where it opened November 3, 2011.\n\nKeach is a founding member of L.A. Theatre Works. He has performed leads in many productions with the company, including 'Willy Loman' in \"Death of a Salesman\" and 'John Proctor' in \"The Crucible\".\n\nHe was scheduled to return to Broadway in December 2014 in the revival of \"Love Letters\" at the Brooks Atkinson Theatre alongside Diana Rigg, but the production closed before Keach and Rigg began their runs.\n\nKeach was scheduled to play Ernest Hemingway in Jim McGrath's one-man play \"Pamplona\" at the Goodman Theatre in Chicago from May 30 to June 25, 2017. Keach appeared in previews of \"Pamplona\", May 19 through May 28, and was well-received by audiences. He was reported as sick on opening night, but still went on stage. The production was halted about an hour into the performance due to his ill health. The following two nights' performances were also canceled, and on June 2, the Goodman Theatre announced that the entire run would be canceled after Keach's doctors advised a period of rest and recuperation.\n\nIn February 2018, the Goodman announced that Keach would return to the role July 10 through August 18. Keach said it would fulfill and obligation \"to the play, to the city and to myself\".\n\nKeach sang backing vocals on the Judy Collins hit song \"Amazing Grace\". He is also credited with co-writing a song, Easy Times, on the Judy Collins live album \"Living\".\n\nKeach played a rookie policeman in \"The New Centurions\" (1972), opposite George C. Scott. That year he also starred in \"Fat City\", a boxing film directed by John Huston. He was the first choice for the role of Damien Karras in the 1973 movie \"The Exorcist\", but he did not accept the role. He went on to play Kane in the 1980 movie \"The Ninth Configuration\", written and directed by Blatty; this role was itself intended for Nicol Williamson.\n\nStacy Keach's storytelling talent as narrator was given worldwide exposure in the 1973 Formula One racing documentary \"Champions Forever, The Quick and the Dead\" by Claude du Boc.\n\nKeach played Cheech & Chong's police department nemesis Sgt. Stedenko in \"Up in Smoke\" and \"Nice Dreams\". He also appeared as Barabbas in \"Jesus of Nazareth\". In 1978 he played a role of explorer and scientist in \"The Mountain of the Cannibal God\", co-starring former Bond girl Ursula Andress. The film became a cult favorite as a \"video nasty\".\n\nOne of his most convincing screen performances was as Frank James (elder brother of Jesse) in \"The Long Riders\" (1980). His brother James played Jesse James. In 1982 Keach starred in \"Butterfly\" with Pia Zadora.\n\nHe portrayed a white supremacist in \"American History X\", alongside Edward Norton and Edward Furlong. In Oliver Stone's 2008 biopic \"W.\", Keach portrays a Texas preacher whose spiritual guidance begins with George W. Bush's AA experience, but extends long thereafter.\n\nKeach also starred in the TV film \"Ring of Death\" playing a sadistic prison warden who runs an underground fight club where prisoners compete for their lives.\n\nHe had also starred in the movie \"Planes\" as Skipper Riley, main character Dusty Crophopper's flight instructor. He reprised the role in \"\".\n\nIn 2012 Keach had a significant supporting role in \"The Bourne Legacy\", and in the 2013 Alexander Payne film \"Nebraska\".\n\nIn 2017 the film \"Gotti\" will be released. Keach plays the part of Neil Dellacroce, the notorious underboss of the Gambino crime family.\n\nOne of Keach's early television roles was in 1958 on the syndicated romantic comedy, \"How to Marry a Millionaire\", with Barbara Eden and Merry Anders. His first-ever experience as a series regular on a television program was playing the lead role of Lieutenant Ben Logan in \"Caribe\" in 1975. He played Barabbas in 1977's \"Jesus of Nazareth\", and portrayed Jonas Steele, a psychic and Scout of the United States Army in the 1982 CBS miniseries, \"The Blue and the Gray\". He later portrayed and is best known as Mike Hammer in the CBS television series \"Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer\" and \"The New Mike Hammer\" from 1984 to 1987. He returned to the role of Hammer in \"Mike Hammer, Private Eye\", a new syndicated series that aired from 1997 to 1998. In 1988, he starred as Ernest Hemingway in the made-for-TV movie \"Hemingway\".\n\nIn 2000, he played Ken Titus, the father of the title character in Fox's sitcom \"Titus\". Cast members of \"Titus\" have commented they enjoyed working with Keach because he would find a way to make even the driest line funny.\n\nKeach lent his voice to \"The Simpsons\" episodes \"Hungry, Hungry Homer\", \"Old Yeller-Belly\", \"Marge and Homer Turn a Couple Play\", and \"Waiting for Duffman\", portraying Duff Brewery President Howard K. Duff VIII, and the \"Batman Beyond\" episode \"Lost Soul\" as an artificial intelligence. He also guest starred in a 2005 episode of the sitcom \"Will & Grace\", and had a recurring role as Warden Henry Pope in the Fox drama \"Prison Break\".\n\nIn November 2013, Keach appeared on the Fox comedy series \"Brooklyn Nine-Nine\", in the episode \"Old School\". In February 2015, Keach started guest appearing in \"\" as Cassius Pride, father of NCIS Agent Dwayne Pride. In 2017, Keach started guest appearing in \"Man with a Plan\" as Joe Burns, father of Adam Burns (played by co-star Matt LeBlanc) and was later promoted to series regular status for season two.\n\nStacy Keach narrated several episodes of \"Nova\", \"National Geographic\", and various other informational series. From 1989-92, he was host of the syndicated informational reenactment show, \"Missing Reward\", which had a similar format to the popular \"Unsolved Mysteries\" at the time. From 1992-95, he became the voice-over narrator for the paranormal series \"\".\n\nBeginning in 1999, he served as the narrator for the home video clip show \"World's Most Amazing Videos\", which is now seen on Spike TV. He currently hosts \"The Twilight Zone\" radio series. Keach can also be heard narrating the CNBC series \"American Greed\". For the PBS series \"American Experience\", he narrated \"The Kennedys\", among others.\n\nIn 2008, Keach once again reprised his famous role as Mike Hammer in a series of full-cast radio dramatisations for Blackstone Audio. (He also arranged and performed the music for the audio dramas. His wife, Malgosia Tomassi also starred in the dramas playing Maya Ricci, a yoga instructor.) Keach has also read many of Mickey Spillane's original Mike Hammer novels as Audiobooks.\n\nKeach played the role of John in \"The Truth & Life Dramatized Audio Bible\", a 22-hour audio version of the RSV-CE translation of the New Testament. He also voiced both Job and Paul the Apostle in \"The Word of Promise\", a 2007 dramatic audio presentation based on the New King James Version.\n\nOn January 6, 2014, Keach became the official voice of The Opie and Anthony Channel on SiriusXM Satellite Radio (Sirius Channel 206, XM Channel 103).\n\nKeach was born with a cleft lip and a partial cleft of the hard palate, and he underwent numerous operations as a child. Throughout his adult life he has often worn a mustache to hide the scars. He is now the honorary chairman of the Cleft Palate Foundation, and advocates for insurance coverage for such surgeries.\n\nIn 1984, London police arrested Keach at Heathrow Airport for possession of cocaine. Keach pleaded guilty, and served six months at Reading Prison.\n\nKeach stated that his time in prison (which he said was the lowest point of his life) and the friendship he formed with a priest during that time led to his conversion to Roman Catholicism. Subsequently, he and his wife met with Pope John Paul II to have their son blessed. His wife, Malgosia Tomassi, had gone to the same school as the Pope had attended in Warsaw when young.\n\nKeach has been married four times: to Kathryn Baker in 1964, to Marilyn Aiken in 1975, to Jill Donahue in 1981, and to Malgosia Tomassi around 1986. In 2015, Keach became a Polish citizen.\n\nHe suffered a mild stroke in March 2009, from which he has made a full recovery.\n\n"}
{"id": "52559319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52559319", "title": "Séverine Autesserre", "text": "Séverine Autesserre\n\nSéverine Autesserre (born 6 December 1976) is a French author and researcher. She writes about war and peace, peacebuilding, peacekeeping, humanitarian aid, and the ongoing conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Her research has influenced policy interventions as well as scholarly debates on peacebuilding and on Congo. She is a Professor of Political Science at Barnard College, Columbia University (New York, USA), where she specializes in international relations and African studies.\n\nAutessere holds a post-doctorate from Yale University (2007), a Ph.D. in political science from New York University (2006), master's degrees in international relations and political science from Columbia University (2000) and Sciences Po (France, 1999), respectively, and a B.A in political science from Sorbonne University (France, 1997). \n\nDr. Autesserre's most well-known research focuses on local violence and international intervention in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo. It culminated in her book, \"The Trouble with the Congo: Local Violence and the Failure of International Peacebuilding\", released by Cambridge University Press in 2010. This book explains why international efforts to end civil wars so often fail. Drawing from over 330 interviews and a year and a half of field research, it presents a case study of the international intervention during the Democratic Republic of Congo’s unsuccessful transition from war to peace and democracy (2003–06). It argues that local rivalries over land, resources, and political power motivated widespread violence. However, an international peacebuilding culture shaped the intervention strategy in a way that precluded action on local conflicts, ultimately dooming the international effort.\nResearch for this project also appeared in \"Foreign Affairs\"\", International Organization, \"the \"Review of African Political Economy\"\", \"the \"African Studies Review\"\", \"the \"African Security Review\"\", International Peacekeeping, \"the \"Revista de Relaciones Internationales\"\", \"and the \"Journal of Humanitarian Assistance.\"\n\nAutessere's second book, \"Peaceland: Conflict Resolution and the Everyday Politics of International Intervention\", was released by Cambridge University Press in 2014 and focuses on the everyday elements that influence peacebuilding interventions on the ground. It included extensive fieldwork in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo and briefer comparative research in Burundi, Cyprus, Israel and the Palestinian Territories, South Sudan, and Timor-Leste. The book suggests a new explanation for why international peace interventions so often fail to reach their full potential. It demonstrates that everyday elements – such as the expatriates’ social habits and common approaches to understanding their areas of operation – strongly influence peacebuilding effectiveness. Through this analysis of the interveners’ everyday life and work, Peaceland proposes innovative ways to better help host populations build a sustainable peace.\nFindings from this project have also appeared in \"Critique Internationale\" and \"African Affairs\".\n\nAutesserre has published columns, essays, and op-eds in many media outlets, including \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"Foreign Affairs\", \"Foreign Policy\", \"African Arguments\", \"The International Herald Tribune\", among others. She has also been a frequent guest on various other broadcast media, include television and radio, and in 2014 she gave a TED talk that has since been translated into 19 languages.\n\nProfessor Autesserre has taught at New York University, Yale University and currently teaches at Columbia University's Barnard College, School of International and Public Affairs, and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. She teaches graduate and undergraduate classes in Political Science, Human Rights, and African Studies, and she advises doctoral students.\n\nAccording to Google Scholar, Dr. Autesserre's work has been cited in more than 1,900 scholarly texts, including more than 650 works citing \"The Trouble With the Congo\" and more than 350 works citing \"Peaceland\".\n\nHer research and publications have also influenced public debates and policies on international peacebuilding and on the Democratic Republic of Congo. Her two books positioned Autesserre as \"an authoritative voice\" on international humanitarian interventions. Her publications on peacebuilding have helped shape intervention strategies for several United Nations departments, foreign affairs ministries, philanthropists, activists, and non-governmental organizations. She has testified before the U.S. Congress, and her research was quoted in debates at the U.S. House of Representatives and the Canadian Congress. Her publications have helped put local conflict resolution on the agenda of policy-makers and practitioners working in Congo.\n\nShe is regularly invited to present her research in the United States, but also internationally, including in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Sweden, and Switzerland, to name a few countries.\n\nAutesserre's research on Congo has won multiple prizes and awards. Her first paper won the 2006 Best Graduate Student Paper award from the African Studies Association, and her article \"Dangerous Tales\" won the 2012 Best Article award from the African Politics Conference Group. The same year, her book \"The Trouble with the Congo\" won the prestigious Grawemeyer Award for Ideas Improving World Order (at the time, she was the youngest recipient of the Grawemeyer Award). The book also won the 2011 Chadwick Alger Prize presented by the International Studies Association to the best book on international organizations and multilateralism.\n\nAutesserre's work on the everyday dimensions of peacebuilding also won several book prizes. \"Peaceland\" won the 2016 Best Book of the Year Award and the 2015 Yale H. Ferguson Award from the International Studies Association, as well as honorable mentions for three other book prizes: the 2014 African Argument Book of the Year, the 2015 Chadwick Alger Prize from the International Studies Association, and the 2015 Conflict Research Society Book of the Year.\n\nHer research has won her numerous other prizes and fellowships, including a Special Prize of the Jury from the French Red Cross Fund (2017), an Andrew Carnegie Fellowship (2016), a 2016 Foreign Policy Interrupted fellowship, two research awards from the United States Institute of Peace (2004–05 and 2010–12), two Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation research grants (2010 and 2011), a Presidential Research Award from Barnard College (2010), several grants from Columbia University (2010–13), two Mellon Fellowships in Security and Humanitarian Action (2004–06), and a Fulbright Fellowship (1999–2000).\n\nShe is one of the seven main characters in Timothy Pachirat´s book \"Among Wolves\".\n\nMajor reviews of \"Peaceland\":\n- African Affairs\n- African Arguments\n- Anarchapistemology\n- Anthropoliteia\n- Cambridge Review of International Affairs\n- Choice\n- Desafíos\n- Etudes Internationales (in French)\n- European Review of International Studies\n- Global Governance\n- H-Diplo Roundtable\n- International Affairs\n- International Rescue Committee\n- International Peacekeeping\n- J-Stage (in Japanese)\n- Journal of Development Studies- Peace and Change\n- Peace Review\n- Perspectives on Politics\n- Politique Etrangère\n- Political Science Quarterly\n- Political Studies Review\n- Revista de Antropología Iberoamericana (in Spanish)\n- Revue Française de Science Politique (in French)\n- Times Higher Education\n\nMajor reviews of \"The Trouble with the Congo\":\n- African Conflict and Peacebuilding Review\n- African Security Review's book symposium\n- Canadian Journal of Political Science\n- Choice\n- Comparative Politics\n- European Review of International Studies\n- Foreign Affairs\n- Forum for Development Studies\n- Human Rights Quarterly\n- Internasjonal politikk (in Swedish)\n- International Affairs\n- International Studies Review\n- Internationale Spectator (in Dutch)\n- Journal of Peace Research\n- Journal of Politics\n- Perspectives on Politics\n- Political Science Quarterly\n- Review of African Political Economy\n- Revue Française de Science Politique (in French)\n- Potentia\n- Survival\n\nAdditional reviews of the two books are linked from the author's page for \"Peaceland\" and \"The Trouble with the Congo.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "236387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236387", "title": "Tony Robbins", "text": "Tony Robbins\n\nAnthony Jai Robbins (born Anthony J. Mahavoric; February 29, 1960) is an American author, entrepreneur, philanthropist and life coach. Robbins is known for his infomercials, seminars, and self-help books including \"Unlimited Power\" and \"Awaken the Giant Within\".\n\nRobbins is the founder of several companies that earn approximately $6 billion in annual sales. In 2015 and 2016 he was listed on the \"Worth Magazine\" Power 100 list.\n\nRobbins was born as Anthony J. Mahavoric in North Hollywood, California, on February 29, 1960. Robbins is the eldest of three children and his parents divorced when he was 7. His mother then remarried (more than once), including a marriage with Jim Robbins, a former semi-professional baseball player who legally adopted Anthony when he was 12.\n\nTony Robbins was raised in Glendora, California, and attended Glendora High School. He was elected student body president in his senior year. While growing up, Robbins worked as a handyman to help provide for his siblings.\n\nDuring high school, Robbins grew ten inches, a growth spurt later attributed to a pituitary tumor. He has said his home life was \"chaotic\" and \"abusive\". When he was seventeen years old, he left home and never returned. Robbins later worked as a janitor, and did not attend college.\n\nRobbins began his career promoting seminars for motivational speaker and author Jim Rohn when he was 17 years old.\n\nIn the early 1980s, soon after meeting Neurolinguistic Programming co-founder John Grinder, the two became partners. At this time Robbins taught NLP and Ericksonian Hypnosis. In 1983 Robbins learned to firewalk, and incorporated it into his seminars.\n\nIn 1988 Robbins released his first infomercial, Personal Power, produced by Guthy Renker, which helped to promote his services as a \"peak performance coach\". The infomercial helped Robbins gain wide exposure, selling his Personal Power self-help audiotapes. His early infomercials featured celebrities such as Pro Football Hall of Fame quarterback Fran Tarkenton and actor Martin Sheen. By 1991 an estimated 100 million Americans in 200 media markets had seen his infomercials.\n\nIn 1997, Robbins began the Leadership Academy seminar. He is a speaker on the seminar circuit sponsored by Learning Annex. Robbins was a featured speaker at the 2007 Technology, Entertainment and Design (TED) conference. Approximately 4 million people have attended his live seminars.\n\nTogether with Cloé Madanes, Robbins founded the Robbins-Madanes Center for Intervention, an organization that trains life skills coaches to help families and individuals deal with addiction and other issues.\n\nIn 2014, Robbins, along with a group of investors including Magic Johnson, Mia Hamm, and Peter Guber, acquired rights to launch a Major League Soccer franchise in Los Angeles, California, currently referred to as the Los Angeles Football Club. The soccer team is scheduled to begin competition in 2018.\n\nIn 2016, Robbins partnered with Golden State Warriors co-owner Peter Guber and Washington Wizards co-owner Ted Leonsis to purchase Team Liquid, an eSports pro gaming organization. In 2017 Team Liquid won The International 7, a Dota 2 tournament with a prize pool of over $24 million.\n\nRobbins has worked on an individual basis with Bill Clinton, Justin Tuck, Wayne Gretzky, Serena Williams, Hugh Jackman and Pitbull. He has also counseled American businessmen Peter Guber, Steve Wynn and Marc Benioff. He was named one of the \"Top 50 Business Intellectuals\" by Accenture and one of the \"Top 200 Business Gurus\" by the Harvard Business Press, and in 2007 was ranked on the Forbes Celebrity 100.\n\nRobbins was criticized for critical comments made about the Me Too movement at a seminar in San Jose, California on March 15, 2018. According to a video of the event released on social media by NowThisNews, Robbins stated his opinion that, \"If you use the #MeToo movement to try to get significance and certainty by attacking and destroying someone else… all you've done is basically use a drug called significance to make yourself feel good.\" He went on to tell a story about a \"very powerful man\" who passed on hiring a female candidate even though she was the most qualified because she was too attractive and would be \"too big a risk\". Following criticism for these comments, Robbins posted an apology on his Facebook page, saying 'I apologize for suggesting anything other than my profound admiration for the #MeToo movement.'\n\nAs of 2017 Robbins has written five books, four of them best-sellers, including \"Unlimited Power\" and \"Awaken the Giant Within\".\"\n\nIn 2014, inspired by the financial crisis that cost many Americans their retirement savings, he published \"Money: Master the Game\", which reached #1 on the New York Times best-selling list in December.\n\nThroughout his writings, seminars, and speeches, Robbins espouses viewpoints, techniques, and other practices he asserts can help adherents improve their lives. He speaks about various \"human needs, influences that affect people, the power of making decisions\" and the need to achieve \"emotional mastery\".\n\nRobbins holds multiple seminars annually. These seminars include \"Unleash the Power Within\", \"Date with Destiny\", \"Life and Wealth Mastery\", \"Business Mastery\" and \"Leadership Academy\".\n\n\"Energy: The Fuel of Excellence\", a chapter in \"Unlimited Power\", is dedicated to a discussion of health and energy. It endorses the \"Fit For Life\" program of Harvey and Marilyn Diamond, food combining and deep breathing. Robbins refers to Harvey and Marilyn Diamond as his \"former partners\".\n\nIn 1991, Robbins founded the Anthony Robbins Foundation, intended to help youth, homeless, hungry, prisoners, elderly and disabled. The organization's name was subsequently changed to \"The Tony Robbins Foundation.\"\n\nIn 2016 Robbins and his Foundation partnered with Bob Carr and the Give Something Back Foundation on the \"ROC 'N Robbins Challenge\" event. Carr matched the $1 million Robbins donated at the event, with the proceeds going to send 100 low-income students to medical school.\n\nIndependent charity watchdog Charity Navigator gives the Anthony Robbins Foundation a rating of four out of four stars in 2017.\n\nIn 2014, he donated the profits of his book, \"Money: Master the Game\", along with an additional personal donation, through Feeding America to provide meals to people in need. The combined donation fed 100 million needy people in 2014-15, according to the charity. Robbins partnered with the charity again in 2016 to provide 100 million more meals. On February 2, 2017, Feeding America announced that the 100 Million More Meals Challenge, conducted in partnership with Robbins, helped provide more than 101.6 million meals to children, families and seniors through Feeding America's network of 200-member food banks in 2016. Robbins also donated profits from \"Unshakeable: Your Financial Freedom Playbook\" to Feeding America.\n\nRobbins works with a water company called Spring Health, which provides fresh water to small villages in rural eastern India to prevent waterborne diseases.\n\nRobbins helped raise money for Operation Underground Railroad, a non-profit organization that fights against child trafficking and slavery with the assistance of former CIA, Navy SEALs, and Special Ops operatives.\n\nIn May 1995, Robbins Research International (R.R.I.) settled with the Federal Trade Commission over alleged violations of the agency's Franchise Rule. Under the settlement, R.R.I. was not found to have violated any law and agreed to pay $221,260 in consumer redress.\n\nWade Cook sued Robbins for allegedly using copyrighted terms from Cook's book \"Wall Street Money Machine\" in Robbins' seminars. In 2000, a jury awarded Cook $655,900 judgement, which was appealed. Cook and Robbins settled for an undisclosed amount.\n\nIn 2001, the British Columbia Supreme Court ruled that \"The Vancouver Sun\" had defamed Robbins when it called him an \"adulterous, wife-stealing hypocrite.\" The court awarded Robbins $20,000 in damages and his legal costs.\n\nIn July 2012, the \"San Jose Mercury News\" published a story reporting that multiple people had been burned and hospitalized during one of Robbins' fire-walking events on July 19, 2012. This story was picked up by other media outlets, including Fox News. These reports were later retracted as inaccurate. A corrective article was published by \"The Huffington Post\".\n\nOn June 24, 2016, it was reported that \"dozens were burned and required medical attention after attempting to walk on hot coals during a fire-walking event at a Tony Robbins seminar in Dallas, Texas\". Several attendees were transported to medical facilities to treat burns, and a bus was used as a staging-area for between 30 and 40 people who were less seriously hurt. A spokeswoman for the Robbins organization stated, \"Someone unfamiliar with the process of the fire-walk called 911 reporting the need for emergency services vehicles […] there was no need for emergency personnel […] only 5 of 7,000 participants requested an examination beyond what was readily available on site.\"\n\nRobbins has played cameo roles in the films \"Reality Bites\", \"The Cable Guy\" and the 2001 film \"Shallow Hal\"; the performances were generally poorly received. He also appeared in \"The Roseanne Show\" and an episode of \"The Sopranos\". He plays himself in the 2010 documentary film \"The Singularity Is Near: A True Story about The Future\".\n\nHe was lampooned in the \"Family Guy\" episodes \"When You Wish Upon a Weinstein\" and \"Pal Stewie\".\n\nIn July 2010, NBC debuted \"Breakthrough with Tony Robbins\", a reality show that followed Robbins as he helped the show's participants face their personal challenges. NBC canceled the show after airing two of the planned six episodes due to low viewership of 2.8 million. In March 2012, the OWN Network picked up the show for another season beginning with the original first season set to re-run and thereafter leading directly into the new 2012 season. In April 2012, Robbins began cohosting \"Oprah's Lifeclass\" on the OWN Network.\n\nIn 2015, film maker Joe Berlinger directed and produced the documentary \"Tony Robbins: I Am Not Your Guru\", about the Tony Robbins event \"Date with Destiny\" after filming it in Boca Raton, Florida, in December 2014. It premiered at the South by Southwest film festival in March 2016 and opened the American Documentary Film Festival (AmDocs) in Palm Springs in February 2016. The documentary was translated into languages for 190 countries and released by Netflix on July 15, 2016.\n\nIn 1984, Robbins married Rebecca \"Becky\" Jenkins after meeting her at a seminar. Jenkins had three children from two former marriages, whom Robbins adopted. Robbins and Jenkins filed for divorce in 1998.\n\nIn 1984, Robbins fathered a child with former girlfriend Liz Acosta. The son, Jairek Robbins, is also a personal empowerment trainer.\n\nIn October 2001, Robbins married Bonnie \"Sage\" Robbins ( Humphrey).\n\nTony Robbins and his wife live in Palm Beach, Florida.\n\n\n"}
