{"id": "2170956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170956", "title": "Alexandre Koyré", "text": "Alexandre Koyré\n\nAlexandre Koyré (; ; 29 August 1892 – 28 April 1964), also anglicized as Alexander Koyre, was a French philosopher of Russian origin who wrote on the history and philosophy of science.\n\nKoyré was born in the city of Taganrog, Russia on 29 August 1892 into a Jewish family. His original name was Alexandr Vladimirovich Koyre (Александр Владимирович (Вольфович) Койре). In Russia he studied in Tiflis, Rostov-on-Don and Odessa, before pursuing his studies abroad.\n\nAt Göttingen, Germany (1908–1911) he studied under Edmund Husserl and David Hilbert. Husserl did not approve of Koyré's dissertation, whereupon Koyré left for Paris, to study at the Collège de France and the Sorbonne during the period 1912–1913 under Bergson, Brunschvicg, Lalande, Delbos and Picavet. Following Husserl's \"Cartesian Meditations\", a series of lectures given in Paris in February 1929 (and one of the more important of Husserl's later works), Koyré met again with Husserl repeatedly.\n\nIn 1914 he joined the French Foreign Legion as soon as the war broke out. In 1916 he volunteered for a Russian regiment fighting on the Russian front, following a cooperation agreement between the French and Russian governments.\n\nIn 1922 Koyré completed his two State doctorate (then called \"Doctorat ès lettres\") theses. The same year he started teaching in Paris at the École pratique des hautes études (EPHE), and became a colleague of Alexandre Kojève, who eventually replaced him as lecturer on Hegel. In 1932 the EPHE created a Department of History of Religious Thought in Modern Europe for him to chair. He retained this position until his death.\n\nDuring the years 1932–34, 1936–38, and 1940–41, Koyré taught in Fuad University (later Cairo University) where, along with André Lalande and others, he introduced the study of modern philosophy to Egyptian academia. His most important student in Cairo was Abdel Rahman Badawi (1917–2002) who is considered the first systematic modern Arab philosopher. Koyré later joined the Egyptian National Committee of the Free French.\n\nDuring World War II, Koyré lived in New York City, and taught at the New School for Social Research. After World War II, he was a frequent visitor to the United States, spending half a year at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton each year from 1955 to 1962 and also teaching as a visiting professor at Harvard, Yale, the University of Chicago, the University of Wisconsin, and Johns Hopkins. His lectures at Johns Hopkins would form the nucleus of one of his best known publications, \"From the Closed World to the Infinite Universe\" (1957). Koyré was general secretary and Vice President of the Institut International de Philosophie, a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a recipient of the George Sarton Medal of the History of Science Society, and of the Silver Medal of the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique.\n\nHe died in Paris on 28 April 1964.\n\nThough best known as a philosopher of science, Koyré started out as a historian of religion. Much of his originality for the period rests on his ability to ground his studies of modern science on the history of religion and metaphysics.\n\nKoyré focused on Galileo, Plato and Isaac Newton. His most famous work is \"From the Closed World to the Infinite Universe\", a series of lectures given at The Johns Hopkins University in 1959 on the rise of early modern science and the change of scientists' perception of the world during the period from Nicholas of Cusa and Giordano Bruno through Newton. Though the book has been widely heralded, it was a summation of Koyré's perspective rather than an original new work.\n\nKoyré was suspicious of scientists' claims to prove natural or fundamental truths through experiments. He argued these experiments were based on complicated premises, and that they tended to prove the outlook behind these premises, rather than any real truth. He repeatedly critiqued Galileo's experiments, claiming that some of them could not have taken place, and disputed the results Galileo claimed and which modern historians of science had hitherto accepted.\n\nAccording to Koyré, it was not the experimental or empirical nature of Galileo's and Newton's discoveries that carried the Scientific Revolution of the 16th and 17th centuries, but a shift in perspective, a change in theoretical outlook toward the world. Koyré strongly criticized what he called the \"positivist\" notion that science should only discover given phenomena, the relations between them and certain laws that would help to describe or predict them. To Koyré science was, at its heart, theory: an aspiration to know the truth of the world, of uncovering the essential structures from which phenomena, and the basic laws that relate them, spring.\n\nKoyré was also interested in the correlations between scientific discoveries and religious or philosophical worldviews. Like Husserl in his later studies, Koyré claimed that modern science had succeeded in overcoming the split, inherent in traditional Aristotelian science, between Earth and Space, since these were now both seen as governed by the same laws. On the other hand, another split had now been created, between the phenomenal world inhabited by man and the purely abstract, mathematical world of science. Koyré aimed to show how this \"first world\", the world of human dwelling (personal and historical), apparently irrelevant to modern naturalistic research, was by no means irrelevant for the very constitution and development of this research. Koyré consistently sought to show how scientific truth is always discovered in correlation with specific historical, even purely personal, circumstances.\n\nKoyré's work can be seen as a systematic analysis of the constitutive achievements that resulted in scientific knowledge, but with particular emphasis on the historical, and specifically human, circumstances that generate the scientists' phenomenal world and serve as foundation for all scientific constitutions of meaning.\n\nKoyré influenced major European and American philosophers of science, most significantly Thomas Kuhn, Imre Lakatos and Paul Feyerabend. In 1961 he was awarded the Sarton Medal by the History of Science Society.\n\nIn the course of his studies of Galileo, Koyré famously claimed that the experiments with weights falling and rolling on inclined planes that Galileo described in his writings probably had not been carried out in practice, but were instead thought experiments intended to illustrate his deductions. Koyré argued that the precision of the results reported by Galileo was not possible with the technology available to him and quoted the contemporary judgement of Marin Mersenne, who had questioned the feasibility of reproducing Galileo's results. Furthermore, according to Koyré, Galileo's science was largely a product of his Platonist philosophy and did not really derive from experimental observations.\n\nKoyré's conclusions were first challenged in 1961 by Thomas B. Settle, who as a graduate student at Cornell University succeeded in reproducing Galileo's experiments with inclined planes using the methods and technologies described in Galileo's writing. Later, Stillman Drake and others worked through Galileo's notes and demonstrated that Galileo was a careful experimentalist whose observations did play the role in the development of his scientific system that he later claimed in his published work. However, such critiques do not entail that Platonism did not have a significant epistemic impact on informing Galileo's science.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9712364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9712364", "title": "Answer to Job", "text": "Answer to Job\n\nAnswer to Job () is a 1952 book by Carl Gustav Jung that addresses the moral, mythological and psychological implications of the Book of Job. It was first published in English in 1954.\n\nJung considers the Book of Job a landmark development in the \"divine drama\", for the first time contemplating criticism of God (\"Gotteskritik\"). Jung described \"Answer to Job\" as \"pure poison\", referring to the controversial nature of the book (Storr, 1973). He did, however, feel an urge to write the book. The basic thesis of the book is that as well as having a good side, God also has a fourth side - the evil face of God. This view is inevitably controversial, but Jung claimed it is backed up by references to the Hebrew Bible. Jung saw this evil side of God as the missing fourth element of the Trinity, which he believed should be supplanted by a Quaternity. However, he also discusses in the book whether the true missing fourth element is the feminine side of God. Indeed, he saw the dogmatic definition of the Assumption of the Virgin Mary by Pope Pius XII in 1950 as being the most significant religious event since the Reformation. Another theme in the book is the inversion of the myth that God sent his son Christ to die for the sins of humanity. Jung maintains that upon realizing his mistreatment of Job, God sends his son to humankind to be sacrificed in repentance for God's sins. Jung sees this as a sign of God's ongoing psychological development.\n\nThe author Joyce Carol Oates, in her review \"Legendary Jung\" (from her collections of essays \"The Profane Art\"), considers \"Answer to Job\" to be Jung's most important work.\n\nThe Episcopal Bishop and humanist Christian author John Shelby Spong, in his book \"Re-Claiming the Bible for a Non-Religious World\" (2011), also considers \"Answer to Job\" to be Jung's \"most profound work\" (page 164).\n\nJungian scholar Murray Stein claims Jung viewed the \"Book of Job\" as an example of a Scriptural religious experience:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "302882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302882", "title": "Anthony Kenny", "text": "Anthony Kenny\n\nSir Anthony John Patrick Kenny (born 16 March 1931) is an English philosopher whose interests lie in the philosophy of mind, ancient and scholastic philosophy, the philosophy of Wittgenstein and the philosophy of religion. With Peter Geach, he has made a significant contribution to Analytical Thomism, a movement whose aim is to present the thought of St. Thomas Aquinas in the style of analytic philosophy. He is one of the executors of Wittgenstein's literary estate. He is a former President of the British Academy and the Royal Institute of Philosophy.\n\nKenny initially trained as a Roman Catholic priest at the Venerable English College, Rome, where he received a degree of Licentiate of Sacred Theology (STL) degree. He was ordained in 1955 and served as a curate in Liverpool (1959–63). Having received his DPhil from the University of Oxford (St Benet's Hall) in 1961, he also worked as an assistant lecturer at the University of Liverpool (1961–63). However, he questioned the validity of Roman Catholic doctrine and is now an agnostic. He was returned to the lay state in 1963, but according to canon law his priestly ordination remains valid. He was never dispensed from the obligation of clerical celibacy and was therefore excommunicated on his marriage to Nancy Gayley in 1965.\n\nDuring 1963-64, Kenny was lecturer in Philosophy at Exeter and Trinity Colleges, Oxford and he served as University Lecturer 1965–78. From 1964 until 1978, he was a Fellow of Balliol College, Oxford and Senior Tutor during the periods 1971–72 and 1976–78. He was Master of Balliol from 1978 to 1989 and subsequently an Honorary Fellow. During the period 1989–99, he was both Warden of Rhodes House (manager of the Rhodes Scholarship program) and Professorial Fellow of St John's College and thereafter Fellow Emeritus. He was Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford from 1984 to 2001 (Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Development, 1999–2001). He retired in 2001.\n\nWithin the university, Kenny was Wilde Lecturer in Natural and Comparative Religion (1969–72), Speaker's Lecturer in Biblical Studies (1980–83), a member of the Hebdomadal Council (1981–93), Vice-Chairman of the Libraries Board (1985–88), Curator of the Bodleian Library (1985–88) and a Delegate, and member of the Finance Committee, of Oxford University Press (1986–93). From 1972 until 1973 he was the editor of \"The Oxford Magazine\". He received the degree of DLitt in 1980 and the honorary degree of DCL. in 1987.\n\nHe was a member of the Board of the British Library 1991-96 and Chairman 1993-96, and has served as Chairman of the Society for Protection of Science and Learning (1989–93), of the British National Corpus Advisory Board (1990–95), of the British Irish Association (1990–94), and of the Board of the Warburg Institute (1996–2000). He was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 1974 and served as a member of the Council of the Academy 1985-88, as Vice President 1986-88 and President 1989-93.\n\nKenny was Gifford Lecturer at the University of Edinburgh 1972-73 and at the University of Glasgow in 1988, Stanton Lecturer at the University of Cambridge 1980-83, and Bampton Lecturer at Columbia University in 1983. He was a Visiting Professor at Chicago, Washington, Michigan, Minnesota, Cornell, Stanford and Rockefeller Universities.\n\nHe has been a member of the American Philosophical Society since 1993, and of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters since 1993, and an Honorary Fellow of Harris Manchester College, Oxford since 1996, and of the School of Advanced Study, University of London since 2002 (Senior Distinguished Fellow 2002-3). He has received the honorary degrees of D.Litt. from Bristol (1982), Liverpool (1988), Glasgow (1990), Trinity College, Dublin (1992), Hull (1993), Sheffield (1995), and Warwick (1995), of D.Hum.Litt. from Denison University, Ohio (1986) and Lafayette College, Pennsylvania (1990) and of D.C.L. from the Queen's University of Belfast (1994).\n\nKenny was made a Knight Bachelor by Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom in 1992 and has been an Honorary Bencher of Lincoln's Inn since 1999.\n\nIn October 2006, Kenny was awarded the American Catholic Philosophical Association's Aquinas Medal for his significant contributions to philosophy.\n\nPortraits of Kenny hang in the British Academy, London, and at Balliol College and Rhodes House, Oxford.\n\nAlthough deeply interested in traditional Catholic teaching and continuing to attend the Catholic Mass, Kenny now explicitly defines himself as an agnostic, explaining in his \"What I believe\" both why he is not a theist and why he is not an atheist. His 2006 book \"What I believe\" has (as Ch 3) \"Why I am Not an Atheist\", which begins: \"Many different definitions may be offered of the word 'God'. Given this fact, atheism makes a much stronger claim than theism does. The atheist says that no matter what definition you choose, 'God exists' is always false. The theist only claims that there is some definition which will make 'God exists' true. In my view, neither the stronger nor the weaker claim has been convincingly established\". He goes on: \"the true default position is neither theism nor atheism, but agnosticism ... a claim to knowledge needs to be substantiated; ignorance need only be confessed.\" He defends the rationality of an agnostic praying to a God whose existence he doubts, stating \"It surely is no more unreasonable than the act of a man adrift in the ocean, trapped in a cave, or stranded on a mountainside, who cries for help though he may never be heard or fires a signal which may never be seen.\" This view is kin to Christian agnosticism.\n\nKenny has written extensively on Thomas Aquinas and modern Thomism. In \"The Five Ways\", Kenny deals with St. Thomas' five proofs of God. In it, Kenny argues that none of the proofs Thomas sets out are wholly valid, and instead sets out to show the flaws in the five ways. His arguments range from the problem of Aristotelian motion in a modern scientific context, to the ability of contingent beings to cause eternality in other contingent beings. His objections all focus on a modern interpretation of St. Thomas.\n\nKenny candidly describes the predicament of the beginning of the universe, which both atheists and agnostics face, writing, \"According to the Big Bang Theory, the whole matter of the universe began at a particular time in the remote past. A proponent of such a theory, at least if he is an atheist, must believe that the matter of the universe came from nothing and by nothing.\"\n\nIn \"What is Faith?\", Kenny addresses \"the question of whether belief in God, and faith in a divine world, is a reasonable or rational state of mind.\" He criticises the idea, \"common to theists like Aquinas and Descartes and to an atheist like Russell,\" that \"Rational belief [is] either self-evident or based directly or indirectly on what is evident,\" which he terms \"foundationalism\" following Plantinga, arguing out that foundationalism is a self-refuting idea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14395411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14395411", "title": "Art as Experience", "text": "Art as Experience\n\nArt as Experience (1934) is John Dewey's major writing on aesthetics, originally delivered as the first William James Lecture at Harvard (1932). Dewey's aesthetics have been found useful in a number of disciplines, including new media.\n\nDewey had previously written articles on aesthetics in the 1880s and had further addressed the matter in \"Democracy and Education\" (1915). In his major work, \"Experience and Nature\" (1925), he laid out the beginnings of a theory of aesthetic experience, and wrote two important essays for \"Philosophy and Civilization\" (1931).\n\nDewey's theory, here, is an attempt to shift the understandings of what is important and characteristic about the art process from its physical manifestations in the ‘expressive object’ to the process in its entirety, a process whose fundamental element is no longer the material ‘work of art’ but rather the development of an ‘experience’. An experience is something that personally affects your life. That is why these theories are so important to our social and educational life.\n\nSuch a change in emphasis does not imply, though, that the individual art object has lost significance; far from it, its primacy is clarified: the object is recognized as the primary site for the dialectical processes of experience, as the unifying occasion for these experiences. Through the expressive object, the artist and the active observer encounter each other, their material and mental environments, and their culture at large.\n\nThe description of the actual act of experiencing is drawn heavily from the biological/psychological theories Dewey expounded in his development of functional psychology. In Dewey's article on reflex arc psychology, he writes that sensory data and worldly stimulus enter into the individual via the channels of afferent sense organs, and that the perception of these stimuli are a 'summation': \n\nThe biological sensory exchange between man, whom Dewey calls 'the Live Creature' in \"Art as Experience\", and the environment, is the basis of his aesthetic theory:\nThis is a dramatic expansion of the bounds of aesthetic philosophy, for it demonstrates the connections of art with everyday experience and in doing so reminds us of the highest responsibilities that art and society and the individual have always owed to each other:\n\nTo emphasize what is aesthetic about an experience is not, finally, to emphasize what is apolitical or impractical or otherwise marginal about that experience; rather, it is to emphasize in what ways that experience, as aesthetic, is a 'manifestation, a record and celebration of the life of a civilization, a means for promoting its development' and, insofar as that aesthetic experience relates to the kinds of experiences had in general, it is also the 'ultimate judgment upon the quality of a civilization.'\n\nSee his \"Experience and Nature\" for an extended discussion of 'Experience' in Dewey's philosophy.\n\nJohn Dewey offers a new theory of art and the aesthetic experience. Dewey proposes that there is a continuity between the refined experience of works of art and everyday activities and events, and in order to understand the aesthetic one must begin with the events and scenes of daily life. This idea stands in opposition to the aesthetic theories presented by Immanuel Kant and also the proponents of German Idealism, which have historically been shown to favor certain heavily classicized forms of art, known commonly as 'High Art' or Fine Art. Dewey argues for the validity of 'popular art' stating:\n\nWe must recover the continuity of aesthetic experience with the normal processes of living. It is the duty of the theorist to make this connection and its implications clear. If art were understood differently by the public, art would gain in public esteem and have wider appeal.\n\nHis criticism of existing theories is that they \"spiritualize\" art and sever its connection with everyday experience. Glorifying art and setting it on a pedestal separates it from community life. Such theories actually do harm by preventing people from realizing the artistic value of their daily activities and the popular arts (movies, jazz, newspaper accounts of sensational exploits) that they most enjoy, and drives away the aesthetic perceptions which are a necessary ingredient of happiness.\n\nArt has aesthetic standing only as it becomes an experience for human beings. Art intensifies the sense of immediate living, and accentuates what is valuable in enjoyment. Art begins with happy absorption in activity. Anyone who does his work with care, such as artists, scientists, mechanics, craftsmen, etc., are artistically engaged. The aesthetic experience involves the passing from disturbance to harmony and is one of man's most intense and satisfying experiences.\n\nArt cannot be relegated to museums. There are historic reasons for the compartmentalization of art into museums and galleries. Capitalism, nationalism and imperialism have all played a major role.\n\nThe title of the chapter is taken from John Keats who once wrote, in a letter to Benjamin Robert Haydon,\n\nIn Dewey, this statement can be taken several ways: the term 'ethereal' is used in reference to the theorists of idealist aesthetics and other schools that have equated art with elements inaccessible to sense and common experience because of their perceived transcendent, spiritual qualities. This serves as a further condemnation of aesthetic theory that unjustly elevates art too far above the pragmatic, experiential roots that it is drawn from.\n\nAnother interpretation of the phrase could be that the 'earth and its contents' being, presumably, the ingredients to form 'ethereal things' further expounds the idea of Dewey's pragmatist aesthetics. In other words, the 'earth and its contents' could refer to 'human experience' being used to create art, (the 'ethereal things') which, though derived from the earth and experience, still contains a godly, creative quality not inherent in original creation.\n\nAddressing the intrusion of the supernatural into art, mythology, and religious ceremony, Dewey defends the need for the esoteric in addition to pure rationalism. Furthermore, the human imagination is seen by Dewey to be a powerful synthesizing tool to express experience with the environment. Essentially, rationality alone can neither suffice to understand life completely or ensure an enriched existence.\n\nDewey writes that religious behaviors and rituals were\n\nArt and (aesthetic) mythology, according to Dewey, is an attempt to find light in a great darkness. Art appeals directly to sense and the sensuous imagination, and many aesthetic and religious experiences occur as the result of energy and material used to expand and intensify the experience of life.\n\nReturning to Keats, Dewey closes the chapter by making reference to another of Keats's passages,\n\nConcerning the passage, Dewey addresses the doctrine of divine revelation and the role of the imagination in experience and art.\n\nJohn Dewey distinguishes between experience in general and \"an\" experience. Experience occurs continually, as we are always involved in the process of living, but it is often interrupted and inchoate, with conflict and resistance. Much of the time we are not concerned with the connection of events but instead there is a loose succession, and this is non-aesthetic. Experience, however, is not an experience.\n\nAn experience occurs when a work is finished in a satisfactory way, a problem solved, a game is played through, a conversation is rounded out, and fulfillment and consummation conclude the experience. In an experience, every successive part flows freely. An experience has a unity and episodes fuse into a unity, as in a work of art. The experience may have been something of great or just slight importance.\n\nSuch an experience has its own individualizing quality. An experience is individual and singular; each has its own beginning and end, its own plot, and its own singular quality that pervades the entire experience. The final import is intellectual, but the occurrence is emotional as well. Aesthetic experience cannot be sharply marked off from other experiences, but in an aesthetic experience, structure may be immediately felt and recognized, there is completeness and unity and necessarily emotion. Emotion is the moving and cementing force.\n\nThere is no one word to combine \"artistic\" and \"aesthetic,\" unfortunately, but \"artistic\" refers to the production, the doing and making, and \"aesthetic\" to appreciating, perceiving, and enjoying. For a work to be art, it must also be aesthetic. The work of the artist is to build an experience that will be experienced aesthetically.\n\nArtistic expression is not \"spontaneous.\" The mere spewing forth of emotion is not artistic expression. Art requires long periods of activity and reflection, and comes only to those absorbed in observing experience. An artist's work requires reflection on past experience and a sifting of emotions and meanings from that prior experience. For an activity to be converted into an artistic expression, there must be excitement, turmoil and an urge from within to go outward. Art is expressive when there is complete absorption in the subject and a unison of present and past experience is achieved.\n\nThere are values and meanings best expressed by certain visible or audible material. Our appetites know themselves better when artistically transfigured. Artistic expression clarifies turbulent emotions. The process is essentially the same in scientists and philosophers as well as those conventionally defined as artists. Aesthetic quality will adhere to all modes of production in a well-ordered society.\n\nThe fifth chapter Dewey turns to the expressive object. He believes that the object should not be seen in isolation from the process that produced it, nor from the individuality of vision from which it came. Theories which simply focus on the expressive object dwell on how the object represents other objects and ignore the individual contribution of the artist. Conversely, theories that simply focus on the act of expressing tend to see expression merely in terms of personal discharge.\n\nWorks of art use materials that come from a public world, and they awaken new perceptions of the meanings of that world, connecting the universal and the individual organically. The work of art is representative, not in the sense of literal reproduction, which would exclude the personal, but in that it tells people about the nature of their experience.\n\nDewey observes that some who have denied art meaning have done so on the assumption that art does not have connection with outside content. He agrees that art has a unique quality, but argues that this is based on its concentrating meaning found in the world. For Dewey, the actual Tintern Abbey expresses itself in Wordsworth's poem about it and a city expresses itself in its celebrations. In this, he is quite different from those theorists who believe that art expresses the inner emotions of the artist. The difference between art and science is that art expresses meanings, whereas science states them. A statement gives us directions for obtaining an experience, but does not supply us with experience. That water is tells us how to obtain or test for water. If science expressed the inner nature of things it would be in competition with art, but it does not. Aesthetic art, by contrast to science, constitutes an experience.\n\nA poem operates in the dimension of direct experience, not of description or propositional logic. The expressiveness of a painting is the painting itself. The meaning is there beyond the painter's private experience or that of the viewer. A painting by Van Gogh of a bridge is not representative of a bridge or even of Van Gogh's emotion. Rather, by means of pictorial presentation, Van Gogh presents the viewer with a new object in which emotion and external scene are fused. He selects material with a view to expression, and the picture is expressive to the degree that he succeeds.\n\nDewey notes that formalist art critic Roger Fry spoke of relations of lines and colors coming to be full of passionate meaning within the artist. For Fry the object as such tends to disappear in the whole of vision. Dewey agrees with the first point and with the idea that creative representation is not of natural items as they literally happen. He adds however that the painter approaches the scene with emotion-laden background experiences. The lines and colors of the painter's work crystallize into a specific harmony or rhythm which is a function also of the scene in its interaction with the beholder. This passion in developing a new form is the aesthetic emotion. The prior emotion is not forgotten but fused with the emotion belonging to the new vision.\n\nDewey, then, opposes the idea that the meanings of the lines and colors in a painting would completely replace other meanings attached to the scene. He also rejects the notion that the work of art only expresses something exclusive to art. The theory that subject-matter is irrelevant to art commits its advocates to seeing art as esoteric. To distinguish between aesthetic values of ordinary experience (connected with subject-matter) and aesthetic values of art, as Fry wished, is impossible. There would be nothing for the artist to be passionate about if she approached the subject matter without interests and attitudes. The artist first brings meaning and value from earlier experience to her observation giving the object its expressiveness. The result is a completely new object of a completely new experience.\n\nFor Dewey, an artwork clarifies and purifies confused meaning of prior experience. By contrast, a non-art drawing that simply suggests emotions through arrangements of lines and colors is similar to a signboard that indicates but does not contain meaning: it is only enjoyed because of what they remind us of. Also, whereas a statement or a diagram takes us to many things of the same kind, an expressive object is individualized, for example in expressing a particular depression.\n\nConsistent with his non-dualistic thinking, Dewey does not draw a sharp distinction between substance and form. He states that “there can be no distinction drawn, save in reflection, between form and substance.” For Dewey, substance is different from subject. One could say that Keats’ Ode to a Nightingale has a nightingale for a subject, but for Dewey the substance of the poem \"is\" the poem. Substance represents the culmination of the artist’s creative efforts. Form for Dewey is the quality of having form. Having form allows the substance to be evoked in such a way that “it can enter into the experiences of others and enable them to have more intense and more fully rounded out experiences of their own.” This process exemplifies Dewey’s triadic relationship between artist, art object, and creative viewer.\n\nIn this chapter, Dewey states that the “formal conditions of artistic form” are “rooted deep in the world itself.” The interaction of the living organism with its environment is the source of all forms of resistance, tension, furtherance, balance – that is, those elements essential for aesthetic experience and which, themselves, constitute form. These elements of interaction are subsumed in one broad term for Dewey, rhythm. He states: “There is rhythm in nature before poetry, painting, architecture and music exist.” Consequently, it makes sense for someone to see aesthetically according to Dewey. For example, the analogy of people seeing a building from a ferry. In this case, the person who sees aesthetically, is the one who is able to see like the artist, the one who recognizes the relations of the parts to the whole, etc. These larger rhythms of nature include the cycles of day and night, the seasons, the reproduction of plants and animals, as well as the development of human craft necessary for living with these changes in nature. This gives rise to the development of the rituals for planting, harvest, and even war. These rhythms of change and repetition have seated themselves deep in human subconsciousness. Via this path from nature, we find the essential rhythms of all the arts. Dewey writes: “Underneath the rhythm of every art and of every work of art there lies, as a substratum in the depths of the subconsciousness, the basic pattern of the relations of the live creature to his environment.” The aesthetic deployment of these rhythms constitutes artistic form.\n\nEnergy pervades the work of art, and the more that energy is clarified, intensified, and concentrated, the more compelling the work of art should be. Dewey gives the example of young children intending to act a play. “They gesticulate, tumble and roll, each pretty much on his own account, with little reference to what others are doing.” This is contrasted with the “well-constructed and well-executed” play. However, it does not necessarily follow that the latter play will be better than the former. This is merely an extreme case of contrasting aesthetic values based on different organizations of energy. The organization of energy manifests itself in patterns or intervals, now more now less. This patterning is related to Dewey’s earlier ideas on rhythm. He writes that instances of energy are “piecemeal, one replacing another…And thus we are brought again to rhythm.” However, the organization of energies is not the same as rhythm. The organization of energy is important as “the common element in all the arts” for “producing a result.” Artistic skill exemplifies skillful organization of energy. An over-emphasis of a single source of energy (at the expense of others sources of energy) in a work of art shows poor organization of energy. At the end of the chapter, Dewey states that art is, in fact, “only definable as organization of energies.” The power of art to “move and stir, to calm and tranquilize” is intelligible only when “the fact of energy” is made central to an understanding of art. The qualities of order and balance in works of art follow from the selection of significant energy. Great art, therefore, finds and deploys ideal energy.\n\nIn this chapter Dewey examines several qualities that are common to all works of art. Early in the chapter, Dewey discusses the feeling of a “total seizure”, a sense of “an inclusive whole not yet articulated” that one feels immediately in the experiencing of a work of art. This sense of wholeness, of all the parts of the work coalescing, can only be intuited. Parts of the work of art may be discriminated, but their sense of coalescence is a quality of intuition. Without this “intuited enveloping quality, parts are external to one another and mechanically related.”\n\nThis sense of wholeness conveyed by the work of art distinguishes the work from the background in which it sits. Evidence of this idea of the artwork standing apart from its background is “our constant sense of things as belonging or not belonging, of relevancy, a sense which is immediate.” Yet the background represents the “unlimited envelope” of the world we live in, and the work of art, though seen as a discrete thing, is intimately connected with the larger background. We intuit this connection, and in this process there is something mystical. “An experience becomes mystical in the degree which the sense, the feeling, of the unlimited envelope becomes intense – as it may do in the experience of an art object.” Though this mystical quality may not be a common substance of all art objects, the sense of wholeness within the object and its relation to a background are.\n\nA further common substance to all works of art is related to the idea of means and ends. In aesthetic works and aesthetic experience, means and ends coalesce. Means \"are\" ends in the aesthetic. The non-aesthetic has a clear separation of means and ends: means are \"merely\" means, mechanical steps used solely to achieve the desired end. Dewey uses the idea of “journeying” as an example. Non-aesthetic journeying is undertaken merely to arrive at the destination; any steps to shorten the trip are gladly taken. Aesthetic journeying is undertaken for “the delight of moving about and seeing what we see.” Extending non-aesthetic experience may lead to frustration and impatience, whereas drawing out aesthetic experience may increase a feeling of pleasure.\n\nEvery artwork and art discipline has a “special medium” that it exploits. In doing so, the different disciplines achieve the sense of wholeness in a given work, and the coalescing of ends and means in qualitatively different ways. “Media are different in the different arts. But possession of a medium belongs to them all. Otherwise they would not be expressive, nor without the common substance could they possess form.”\n\nDewey discusses another matter that is common to the substance of all works of art: space and time. Both space and time have qualities of room, extent, and position. For the concept of space, he identifies these qualities as spaciousness, spatiality, and spacing. And for the concept of time: transition, endurance, and date. Dewey devotes most of the remainder of the chapter to a discussion of these qualities in different art works and disciplines.\n\nIn the final paragraphs, Dewey summarizes the chapter. He claims that there must be common substance in the arts “because there are general conditions without which an experience is not possible.” Ultimately, then, it is the person experiencing the artwork who must distinguish and appreciate these common qualities, for “the intelligibility of a work of art depends upon the presence to the meaning that renders individuality of parts and their relationship in the whole directly present to the eye and ear trained in perception.”\n\n"}
{"id": "31542049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31542049", "title": "Asen Kojarov", "text": "Asen Kojarov\n\nAsen Todorov Kojarov (born 19 July 1911 in Nevrokop, Salonica Vilayet, Ottoman empire, now Bulgaria, died 19 November 1988 in Sofia) was a Bulgarian philosopher, politician, yogi.\n\nHe was born in 1911 as Asen Charakchiev in the town of Nevrokop, in the Salonica Vilayet of the Ottoman Empire, now the town of Gotse Delchev, Bulgaria. In 1935 as a student of philosophy he was expelled from University of Sofia for anti-fascist activities and was sentenced to 12 1/2 years of imprisonment. In the prison, he illegally studied the classicists of Marxism-Leninism and guided circles in philosophy. Freed in 1940, he again joined the illegal anti-fascist movement. On 24 January 1943 he married Liliana Milosheva. In March 1944 he was imprisoned for a second time. On 9 September 1944 he was liberated by the victorious socialist revolution in Bulgaria.\nUnder socialism, Asen Kojarov worked as a functionary of the Bulgarian Communist Party in the state apparatus and as a journalist. In 1948 he graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Sofia as a correspondent student. In 1949-1951 he was lecturer in philosophy at the Polytechnical School in Sofia. From 1952 to 1972, with a short interruption, he was scientific secretary and deputy editor in chief of the Filosofska Missal magazine. In 1957 he went to specialize in Moscow. From 1960 to 1962 he was director of Bulgarian Encyclopaedia, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In 1962 he was elected as senior research associate in philosophy. From 1963 to 1966 he was Bulgarian representative at the International magazine Problems of Peace and Socialism, Prague, Czechoslovakia. From 1966 to 1969 he was a deputy director Of the Bulgarian History Institute. Also from 1966 to 1981 he was deputy director of the Institute for Modern Social Theories. In 1968 he changed his family name from Charakchiev (Turkish version) into Kojarov (Bulgarian translation). In 1973 he became doctor of philosophical sciences, in 1977 - professor of philosophy. In 1971 he was awarded with a medal People's Republic of Bulgaria, 1 grade, in 1981 - with a medal Georgi Dimitrov.\n\n"}
{"id": "19279179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19279179", "title": "Carlos Cirne Lima", "text": "Carlos Cirne Lima\n\nCarlos Roberto Velho Cirne Lima, also referred to as Carlos Cirne Lima, (born in 1931, in :Porto Alegre, :Rio Grande do Sul, :Brasil) is a Brazilian contemporary dialectical philosopher.\nHe obtained his doctor-degree in 1958 at the :University of Innsbruck, :Austria.\nWas a full professor at the universities (Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul), (Pontífica Universidade do Rio Grande do Sul) in Porto Alegre, and in São Leopoldo, Rio Grande do Sul.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18647618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18647618", "title": "Chung-ying Cheng", "text": "Chung-ying Cheng\n\nChung-Ying Cheng (Chinese: 成中英) is a distinguished scholar of Chinese philosophy and Professor in the Department of Philosophy at the University of Hawai'i at Manoa. He is considered as one of the pioneers who formalized the field of Chinese philosophy in the United States in the 1960s.\n\nCheng received his B.A. from National Taiwan University in 1956, his M.A. from University of Washington in 1958, and Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1963. He joined the Department of Philosophy at the University of Hawaii at Manoa in 1963. He has lectured at numerous prestigious institutions such as Yale University and Oxford University. He also served as Chair of Department of Philosophy at National Taiwan University and Director of the Graduate Institute of Philosophy at Taida. Currently, he is Visiting Chair Professor in Chinese Philosophy at King's College London, Visiting Professor at Peking University and Tsinghua University, Distinguished Chair Professor at Renmin University, and Visiting Chair Professor of Humanities at Shanghai Jiaotong University.\n\nCheng's research interests are in the areas of Chinese logic, the I Ching and the origins of Chinese philosophy, Confucian and Neo-Confucian Philosophy, the onto-hermeneutics of Eastern and Western philosophy, and Chan (Zen) philosophy. Recently, he has specifically worked on the philosophy of c-management and Confucian Bio-Ethics as they relate to the Chinese tradition, and on how Chinese culture relates to world culture. He founded the \"Journal of Chinese Philosophy\" published by Blackwell Publishers in 1973 and has served as Editor-in-Chief since then.\n\n\n“Transforming Confucian Virtues into Human Rights: A Study of Human Agency and Potency in Confucian Ethics” in Wm deBary (Ed.) Confucianism and Human Rights. New York: Columbia University Press, 1997.\n"}
{"id": "26336768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26336768", "title": "Deleuze Studies", "text": "Deleuze Studies\n\nDeleuze Studies is a quarterly academic journal published by Edinburgh University Press with the support of the Centre for Critical and Cultural Theory at Cardiff University. It is an interdisciplinary journal that focuses exclusively on the work of Gilles Deleuze.\n\n"}
{"id": "34702534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34702534", "title": "Feeder of lice", "text": "Feeder of lice\n\nA feeder of lice was a job in interwar and Nazi-occupied Poland, in the city of Lwów at the \"Institute for Study of Typhus and Virology\" of Rudolf Weigl () in Lwów (Lviv, Ukraine). It involved serving as a source of blood for lice, a typhus vector, which could then be used to develop vaccines against the disease.\n\nInitially begun in 1920 by Weigl, during the Nazi occupation of the city it became the primary means of support and protection for many of the city's Polish intellectuals, including the mathematician Stefan Banach and the poet Zbigniew Herbert. While the profession carried a significant risk of infection, thanks to Weigl's patronage the feeders of lice obtained additional food rations, were protected from being shipped to slave labor in Germany or German concentration camps, and were allowed additional mobility around the occupied city.\n\nTyphus research involving human subjects, who were purposely infected with the disease, was also carried out in various Nazi concentration camps, in particular at Buchenwald and Sachsenhausen and to a lesser extent at Auschwitz.\n\nFrench bacteriologist Charles Nicolle showed in 1909 that lice (\"Pediculus humanus corporis\") were the primary means by which the typhus bacteria (\"Rickettsia prowazekii\") were spread. In his experiments Nicolle infected a chimpanzee with typhus, retrieved the lice from it, and placed them on a healthy chimpanzee who developed the disease shortly thereafter. Further work established that it was lice excrement rather than bites which spread the disease. Nicolle received a Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine for his work on typhus in 1928.\n\nDuring World War I, beginning in 1914, Rudolf Weigl, a Polish parasitologist of Austrian background was drafted into the Austrian army and given the task of studying typhus and its causes. Weigl worked at a military hospital in Przemyśl, where he supervised the newly established Laboratory for the Study of Spotted Typhus.\n\nAfter Poland regained its independence Weigl was hired, in 1920, as a Professor of Biology in the Medical Faculty at the Jan Kazimierz University in Lwów, at the \"Institute for Study of Typhus and Virology\". While there, he developed a vaccine against typhus made from grown lice which were then crushed into a paste. Initially the lice were grown on the blood of guinea pigs but the effectiveness of the vaccine depended on the blood being as similar to human blood as possible. As a consequence, by 1933, Weigl began using human volunteers as feeders. While the volunteers fed healthy lice, there was still the danger of accidental exposure to some of the typhus-carrying lice in the institute. Additionally, once the lice were infected with typhus, they required additional feeding, which carried the risk of the human feeder becoming infected with the disease. Weigl protected the donors by vaccinating them beforehand, and although some of them (including Weigl himself) developed the disease, none died. However, the production of the vaccine was still a potentially dangerous activity, and it was still difficult to produce the vaccine on a large scale.\n\nAt the time Weigl's vaccine was the only one in existence which could be employed in practical applications outside of controlled settings. The first widespread use of his vaccine was carried out in China by Belgian missionaries between 1936 and 1943.\n\nThe development of the typhus vaccine involved several stages. First, the lice larvae had to be bred and then fed on human blood. Once they matured, they were removed from the feeders, held down in a clamp machine especially designed by Weigl, and anally injected with the strain of the typhus bacteria. At that point the infected louse had to be fed human blood for about five more days. This stage of the production process carried the greatest risk to the human feeder of contracting the disease. Weigl and his staff tried to prevent the danger by heavily vaccinating the feeders before hand. Once the louse was sufficiently infected, it was removed from the human feeder, killed in a solution of phenol, and then dissected. The contents of the louse abdomen (its feces) was removed and then ground up into a paste. The paste was then made into the typhus vaccine.\n\nThe feeding was done through the use of specially-constructed small wooden boxes, 4 cm by 7 cm, developed by Weigl. The boxes were sealed with paraffin on the top which prevented the lice from escaping, and the underside consisted of a screen made of a fabric sieve, adopted by Weigl from sieves that were used by local peasants to separate wheat husks from the seeds. A typical box contained 400 to 800 lice larvae which would mature as the feeding took place. The sieve bottom allowed the lice to stick out their heads and feed on the human flesh. A standard feeding period took thirty to forty-five minutes, and was repeated with the same lice colony for twelve days. Usually, an individual feeder would accommodate from 7 to 11 boxes (of 400 to 800 lice each) on his or her leg, per feeding session. Typically men would place the boxes on their calves, to minimize the discomfort of the bites, while women feeders placed them on their thighs, so that the bite marks could be covered up by a skirt. A nurse had to watch over the feeding process as the lice would feed beyond the point of being gorged on the blood and could burst if left on the human flesh for too long.\n\nOther dangers that employment at the institute involved, in addition to the contraction of typhus, concerned allergic reactions to the vaccine or asthma attacks because of the louse feces dust.\n\nAfter the invasion of Poland by Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union in 1939, Lwów initially came under Soviet occupation. During this period Weigl's institute continued to function, although Poles, particularly those escaping from the German-controlled areas, were banned from being employed there. The Soviet authorities deported ethnic Poles from the seized territories, sending them to Kazakhstan, Siberia and other areas deep within the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, despite the official prohibition on employment, Weigl used his prestige and influence (during this time Nikita Khrushchev visited the institute) to secure the release of several Polish would-be deportees and in some cases managed to obtain permission for those who had already been exiled to return. These individuals were then given work in the institute as either nurses, interpreters (Weigl himself did not speak Russian) or as some of the first lice feeders; people who were given the job as a means of protecting them from persecution by the Soviet authorities.\n\nThe vaccine produced by the institute during this time was earmarked for the Red Army, aside from a small quantity which was used in the civilian sector.\n\nIn June 1941, after the Nazi attack on the Soviet Union, Lwów was taken over by the Germans. Weigl's institute, now renamed \"Institut für Fleckfieber und Virusforschung des OKH\", was kept open because, much like the Soviets before them, the Germans were interested in the applications of the typhus vaccine among their front line soldiers. The Institute was made directly subordinate to the German military, which, as it turned out, ended up giving its workers significant protection against the Gestapo. The Nazis converted a building of the former Queen Jadwiga Grammar School into Weigl's new laboratory and ordered that the production of the vaccine be stepped up, with the whole output being shipped to the German armed forces.\n\nIn light of the \"Sonderaktion Krakau\", a German operation in which many distinguished professors from Jagiellonian University in Kraków were arrested and sent to German concentration camps, the danger that a similar fate would befall Lwów intellectuals was very real. As a result, in July 1941, Weigl began hiring prominent Polish intellectuals of the city for his institute, many of whom had lost work as a result of the closure of all Polish institutions of higher learning by the Nazis. In fact, soon after, the Nazis carried out a massacre of Lwów professors. Weigl managed to convince the occupation authorities to give him full discretion as to whom he hired for his experiments, even as he himself refused to sign the so-called Volksliste which would have identified him as an ethnic German (since he was of Austrian background) with access to privileges and opportunities unavailable to Poles. Similarly, he refused an offer to move to Berlin, direct a dedicated institute and become a Reichsdeutscher. The group of scholars hired by Weigl were often brought in by Wacław Szybalski, an oncologist, who was also put in charge of supervising the lice feeding.\n\nAssociation with the institute offered a measure of protection. Weigl was able to continue his research, and even hire more people, some as research assistants, others as lice feeders, often among those threatened by Nazi authorities with deportation, or even resistance members. The feeders of lice who were employed at the institute were issued a special version of the Kennkarte, the \"Ausweis\", which noted both that they might be infected with typhus and that they worked for an institution of the German military, the \"Oberkommando des Heeres\" (Office of the Commander-in-Chief of the German Army). As a result, the workers of the institute, unlike other Poles in the city, could move freely about and, if stopped by the police or the Gestapo, were quickly released.\n\nIn autumn of 1941, the famous mathematician Stefan Banach began working at the institute as a lice feeder, as did his son, Stefan Jr. Banach continued to work at the institute feeding lice until March 1944, and managed to survive the war as a result, unlike many other Polish mathematicians who were killed by the Nazis (although he died of lung cancer shortly after the war's conclusion). Banach's employment at the institute also gave protection to his wife, Łucja (it was she who purchased the notebook that eventually became the famous Scottish Book), who was in particular danger because of her Jewish background. The poet Zbigniew Herbert also spent the occupation as a lice feeder in Weigl's institute. According to Alfred Jahn, a geographer and future rector of the University of Wrocław, \"Almost the entire University of Lwów worked at Weigl's\". Two other future rectors of the University of Wrocław, Kazimierz Szarski and Stanisław Kulczyński, also survived the war as feeders of lice.\n\nWith numerous academics gathering in one place under the pretense of lice feeding and research, underground education and research often took place. The actual feeding time took only about an hour a day, which left the remainder of the day free for conspiratorial activity and scientific discourse.\n\nAdditionally, Weigl began employing members of the Polish anti-Nazi resistance, the Home Army, in his institute, which provided them with sufficient cover to carry out their underground activities. Aleksander Szczęścikiewicz and Zygmunt Kleszczyński, two leaders of the underground scout movement, the Grey Ranks (\"Szare Szeregi\"), also worked at the institute. Due to his special position, Weigl was allowed to have a radio at the institute – otherwise ownership of a radio by Poles was punishable by death – which was used by him and members of the Polish resistance to gather up-to-date news of the war otherwise censored by German propaganda.\n\nWhen the Germans began the systematic murder of the Lwów Jews, Weigl tried to save as many as he could by hiring them as well. Among others, work at the institute saved the life of the bacteriologist Henryk Meisel. Weigl also tried to protect the bacteriologist Filip Eisenberg, from Jagiellonian University, by offering him a position. Unfortunately, Eisenberg believed that he could survive the war by hiding in Kraków, turned down Weigl's offer, and in 1943 was caught by the Nazis and sent to the Belzec extermination camp where he was murdered. In the end, about 4000 people (feeders, technicians and nurses) passed through Weigl's institute, of whom about 500 are known by name.\n\nWhile all of the vaccines produced by the institute during this time were supposed to go to the German army, some portion was smuggled out by the employees associated with the Polish resistance and shipped to partisan units of the Home Army, as well as underground movements in the Lwów and Warsaw ghettos, and even to sick individuals in the Auschwitz and Majdanek concentration camps. According to the famous Polish-Jewish pianist and diarist, Władysław Szpilman (the protagonist of the 2002 movie \"The Pianist\"), because of his vaccine, Weigl became \"as famous as Hitler in the Warsaw ghetto\", with \"Weigl as a symbol of Goodness and Hitler as a symbol of Evil\".\n\nAfter the Red Army, along with the Home Army (Operation Tempest) recaptured Lwów in July 1944, Weigl's institute was disbanded and moved to central Poland, along with most other Polish inhabitants of Lwów. Weigl would continue his research in Kraków at Jagiellonian University.\n\nHuman lice feeders were also used in America in the 1940s. The \"Wilmington Morning Star\" reported that the U.S. government's researchers paid around 60 lice feeders $60 a month, rising to $120 due to the lack of people willing to participate. Humans were used because lice failed to thrive on animals, until it was discovered that some could live on an \"Easter bunny\" called Samson. Samson and his descendants were used to conduct hundreds of experiments.\n\n\nWeigl continued his research on typhus after the war. After his death, his studies were picked up by his friends, students, and his second wife, Anna-Herzig Weigl.\n\nRudolf Weigl was posthumously awarded the medal of Righteous among the Nations by the Yad Vashem in 2003. His contributions to saving lives during the Nazi occupation of Poland have been compared to those of Oskar Schindler.\n\n"}
{"id": "27077098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27077098", "title": "Gerardus Everardus Tros", "text": "Gerardus Everardus Tros\n\nGerardus Everardus Tros (December 25, 1927 – October 18, 2011) is a metaphysical philosopher and writer. His body of work containing writings from the last thirty years, is available on his website.\n\nGerardus was born in the City of Hoorn, The Netherlands on December 25, 1927. His education was partly interrupted because of the German occupation. Self study and evening classes helped to overcome this lack. At the age of fourteen he started work and became familiar with the electrical trade. Eventually he became an Electrical Supervisor.\n\nIn 1957 at the age of 29 he immigrated to Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, where he found work at a Power Generation Station and in his later years worked on the engineering staff of an electrical control division. In 1983 he retired and spent most of his time refining his metaphysical writing abilities. He produced seven manuscripts and more than 700 poems or compositions. Two of his books were self-published and some of his work has been contributed to the CompuServe Libraries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10700747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10700747", "title": "Geschwind syndrome", "text": "Geschwind syndrome\n\nGeschwind syndrome, also known as Gastaut-Geschwind, is a group of behavioral phenomena evident in some people with temporal lobe epilepsy. It is named for one of the first individuals to categorize the symptoms, Norman Geschwind, who published prolifically on the topic from 1973 to 1984. There is controversy surrounding whether it is a true neuropsychiatric disorder. Temporal lobe epilepsy causes chronic, mild, interictal (i.e. between seizures) changes in personality, which slowly intensify over time. Geschwind syndrome includes five primary changes; hypergraphia, hyperreligiosity, atypical (usually reduced) sexuality, circumstantiality, and intensified mental life. Not all symptoms must be present for a diagnosis. Only some people with epilepsy or temporal lobe epilepsy show features of Geschwind syndrome.\n\nHypergraphia is the tendency for extensive and compulsive writing or drawing, and has been observed in persons with temporal lobe epilepsy who have experienced multiple seizures. Those with hypergraphia display extreme attention to detail in their writing. Some such patients keep diaries recording meticulous details about their everyday lives. In certain cases, these writings demonstrate extreme interest in religious topics. Also, these individuals tend to have poor penmanship. The novelist Fyodor Dostoyevsky showed symptoms of Geschwind syndrome, including hypergraphia. In some cases hypergraphia can manifest with compulsive drawing. Drawings by patients with hypergraphia exhibit repetition and a high level of detail, sometimes morphing writing with drawing \n\nSome individuals may exhibit hyperreligiosity, characterized by increased, usually intense, religious feelings and philosophical interests, and partial (temporal lobe) epilepsy patients with frequent numinous-like auras have greater ictal and interictal spirituality. Some auras include ecstatic experiences. It has been reported that many religious leaders exhibit this form of epilepsy. These religious feelings can motivate beliefs within any religion, including Voodoo, Christianity, Islam, and others. Furthermore, in Geschwind syndrome, \"in someone from a strongly religious background hyperreligiosity might appear as deeply felt atheism\". There are reports of patients converting between religions. A few patients internalize their religious feelings: when asked if they are religious they say they are not. One reviewer concluded that the evidence for a link between temporal lobe epilepsy and hyperreligiosity \"isn't terribly compelling\".\n\nPeople with Geschwind syndrome reported higher rates of atypical or altered sexuality. In approximately half of affected individuals hyposexuality is reported. Less commonly, cases of hypersexuality have been reported.\n\nIndividuals that demonstrate circumstantiality (or \"viscosity\") tend to continue conversations for a long time and talk receptively.\n\nIndividuals may demonstrate an intensified mental life, including deepened cognitive and emotional responses. This tendency may pair with hypographia, leading to prolific creative output and a tendency toward intense, solitary pursuits.\n\n"}
{"id": "47845489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47845489", "title": "Glucosio", "text": "Glucosio\n\nGlucosio is a free and open source project, created in 2015 by a group of open source developers to develop Android, iOS and Firefox OS apps for diabetes management and research.\n\nGlucosio was started by a group of open source developers in June 2015. Glucosio consists of a Research API, Android Application, and iOS Application. A unique feature of Glucosio is the ability for diabetics to opt into sharing anonymous glucose data with diabetes researchers via the research API.\n\nGlucosio's project code is available on Github under the GPLv3 License for users who wish to build their app from scratch or contribute to the open source project, but is also published in the Google Play Store\n\n"}
{"id": "30272135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30272135", "title": "Gosei (meditation)", "text": "Gosei (meditation)\n\nThese reflections were originally devised by Vice Admiral Hajime Matsushita, who was the Chief of the Imperial Japanese Naval Academy , and used from 1932 to its abolishment in 1945. Every evening cadets are expected to meditate on these inter-related questions.\n\nThe Japan Maritime Self Defense Force (JMSDF), from its establishment in 1954, encourages the use of the \"Gosei\" as a self-reflective exercise during the course of daily living.\n\nThe crux of this contemplative practice has been translated into English and has been discussed at the United States Naval Academy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58535464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58535464", "title": "History and Philosophy of the Life Sciences", "text": "History and Philosophy of the Life Sciences\n\nHistory and Philosophy of the Life Sciences is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering the history and philosophy of biology. It was established in 1979 and is published by Springer Science+Business Media. The editor-in-chief is Staffan Müller-Wille (University of Exeter). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 0.559. \n"}
{"id": "57020260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57020260", "title": "Hittite sun disk", "text": "Hittite sun disk\n\nThe Hittite Sun Disk or Hittite Sun Course is an ancient Anatolian symbol dating back to the 5th century BC.\n\nThe disks can be divided into four distinct variations. These are Semi-circular, Diamond shaped, Circular with bulls' horn and circular of semicircular with a complex design including animals and horns. The last one of those types was replicated in a monument. The sun disks have been found in at least 13 Royal Tombs from the early bronze age in Alacahöyük.\n\n\"The symbol belongs to the Hattis from the pre-Hittite period. The Sun Disc is made of bronze, and was commonly used about 4250 years ago in religious ceremonies. The circle which forms the perimeter of the disc represents either the earth or the sun. At the bottom, there are two horn-like protrusions but what they represent is not clear. The protrusions at the top represent fertility, and the procreation of nature. The birds symbolize fertility and the freedom in nature. The sun disc is known to have been made about 300 years prior to the Hittite settlement in Anatolia. Hatti kings were buried in funeral ceremonies typically with 4-5 such symbols of similar design.\"\n\nThe sun disk is used as the symbol of Ankara University.\n\nA monument, Hittite Sun Course Monument, to the Hittites was created by the sculptor Nusret Suman and was erected in Sıhhiye Square in 1978.\n\nThe Turkish food giant Eti uses the sun disk as their logo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27291486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27291486", "title": "Horst Matthai Quelle", "text": "Horst Matthai Quelle\n\nHorst Matthai Quelle (30 January 1912 – 27 December 1999) was a Spanish-speaking German philosopher.\n\nQuelle was born in Hanover, Germany in 1912.\n\nIn 1938, at the beginning of the German economic crisis and the rise of Nazism and fascism in Europe, Quelle moved to Mexico. There, he began studying philosophy at the National Autonomous University of Mexico where he took classes with writer Carlos Monsivais and philosophers Leopoldo Zea and Emilio Uranga. Quelle earned his undergraduate degree, master's and doctorate in philosophy at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, where he returned as a professor of philosophy in the 1980s. He also taught at the Universidad Iberoamericana and since 1986, the Universidad Autónoma de Baja California.\n\nHe died in Tijuana, Mexico on 27 December 1999.\n\nIn the introduction to the compilation \"Philosophical Texts (1989-1999)\" his philosophy is summarized as follows:\n\n1. The exterior world is a phenomenon of the individual since it is consciousness which gives form to the perceived world.\n\n2. There are institutions and historical currents that strive to sabotage the practical application of this knowledge. These are mainly the church, the state and science and western philosophy when it subordinates itself to these three agents.\n\n3. To acquire consciousness that the world is a phenomenon of the individual and that there are institutions and historical currents that occult this wisdom means becoming responsible of the world, thought and language. If the individual gives form to the world, he is those objects, the others and the whole universe, as such, he has to rebel against the forces which intend to convince him that he is only part of the world, and not the whole world.\n\nOne of his main views was a \"theory of infinite worlds\" which for him was developed by pre-socratic philosophers. For him reality is a product of consciousness and each individual consciousness is a world on itself. Another important concept in his philosophy is one he called \"non-mutuality\" which expresses that which does not permit communication between individuals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46523624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46523624", "title": "Human rights in cyberspace", "text": "Human rights in cyberspace\n\nHuman rights in cyberspace is a relatively new and uncharted area of law. The United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) has stated that the freedoms of expression and information under Article 19(2) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) include the freedom to receive and communicate information, ideas and opinions through the Internet.\n\nAn important clause is Article 19(3) of the ICCPR, which provides that:The exercise of the right provided in paragraph two of this article carries with it special duties and responsibilities. It may therefore be subjected to certain restrictions, but these shall only be such as are provided by law and are necessary:(a) For respect of the rights or reputations of others;(b) For the protection of national security or of public order, or of public health and morals.The HRC has stated that \"the same rights that people have offline must also be protected online\" (mentioning, in particular, freedom of expression).<ref name=\"UN Doc A/HRC/RES/20/8 (2012), para1\"></ref> It is widely regarded that this freedom of information must be balanced with other rights. The question is raised whether people's expectations of human rights are different in cyberspace.\n\nPublic privacy encompasses freedom of information and expression on the Internet on the one side, and security and privacy in cyberspace on the other side. In the context of cyberspace, privacy means using the Internet as a service tool for private purposes without the fear of third parties accessing and using user data in various ways without their consent. \n\nThe right to freedom encompasses the right of expression and is stated in several international treaties. The right includes freedom to receive and impart information and ideas and to hold opinions without any state interference. It also includes the right to express oneself in any medium including exchanging ideas and thoughts through Internet platforms or social networks. Freedom means the right to political expression especially when it raises matters of public importance. \n\nMost democratic countries advance the installation of the Internet for economic and communication purposes; therefore, political expression is given some protection on the Internet. Some governments actively move to protect citizen's data on the Internet. However, these intergovernmental agreements can lead to misuse and abuse of private data, which in turn can affect many other fundamental freedoms and basic human rights. The challenge for governments is balancing private interests with rules against privacy and freedom rights for all.\n\nGerman political scientist Anja Mihr says that cyberspace harbors more individuals than any other country in the world, yet it is without any government, legislative bodies, law enforcement or any other sort of constitution. Without these mechanisms difficulties arise in protecting and enjoying citizen's rights. International Governmental Organisations (IGO's), such as the United Nations (UN), the Organization of American States, the African Union or the European Union aim to set international standards for the use of cyberspace and the Internet to be enforced by national governments, but commonly fail to do so. The problem is that state powers and their mechanisms of enforcement do not extend past the state's borders. \n\nBecause cyberspace has no borders, the ways and means to govern it are as-yet undefined. This leads to problems wherein those who are willing to commit crimes find it easier to cross borders through the web, as it is unclear where jurisdiction lies. If a governing regime was ever established, it would most likely consist of multiple stakeholders and actors including national, international, and private actors such as representatives of companies, social networks, nongovernmental organizations as well as individuals.\n\nA question arises when there is a breach of an individual's basic human rights. Should the liability fall only on the originator of the breached right, or should the burden also fall on the Internet service provider (ISP)? This is an especially relevant issue when it comes to balancing free speech against defamation. The increasing speed and limitless audience of the Internet pose a greater danger to individuals and their reputations. \n\nISPs may not have the means to monitor content published on their websites, and may be unaware that a defamatory statement exists on their site. This was demonstrated in the case Cubby, Inc. v. CompuServe Inc. where it was found that the ISP was acting as a mere distributor and could not be liable for the content posted on its bulletin. However, in Stratton Oakmont, Inc. v. Prodigy Services Co. the New York Supreme Court held that Prodigy acted as a publisher with an editorial function, and so was found liable. \n\nThese cases highlight the ambiguity surrounding the liability placed upon ISPs. A further question is whether ISPs will take it upon themselves to function as “moral guardians” of cyberspace. If over-fanatical ISPs start refusing to host certain Internet sites, this may, in turn, compromise rights for the freedom of speech and freedom of expression. In comparison, ambiguity about ISPs liability could mean ISPs permit content without regard to its potentially harmful effects.\n\nGiven the prevalence of hacking, viruses and zero day exploits, the World Wide Web (WWW) is a non-secure storage space for the storage of sensitive private information. Cyberspace is a tool where individuals can exercise their freedom rights, but cyberspace cannot guarantee our freedom. Today there are around 2.5 billion internet users. We are living in a world where everyone has a long data trail, so internet security is a high priority.\n\nToday more people than ever have a common understanding of privacy or freedom of expression therefore share common ideas as to how to protect and secure their private data. Still according to the Freedom in the Net Index issued in 2013, most countries in the world censor Internet freedom, some more than others. Countries will do this in various ways. For example, using Internet police. There are many methods of filtering and censoring the exercise of freedom rights. \n\nThe EU has invested in many filtering projects such as NETprotect I and II, ICRAsafe and the PRINCIP programme. It has been stated that self-censorship Internet users impose upon themselves is probably the most serious threat to Internet freedom. Mass surveillance and fear of private communications being made public lead to self-censorship. This results in individuals no longer using search engines or social networks to express their personal beliefs, ideas or opinions, as certain keywords may trigger concerns with national security agencies, resulting in the Internet becoming a political tool of manipulation.\n\nDiscriminatory behaviors that occur ‘offline’ also occur ‘online’ One of these behaviors is ‘cyber bullying’. Cyberbullying affects at least one in ten students in Australia. Cyberbullying can impact on a range of human rights including: the right to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health; rights to work and fair working conditions; the right to freedom of expression and to hold opinions without interference; a child or young person’s right to leisure and play.\n\nCyber racism can be in the form of individuals posting racist comments or participating in group pages specifically set up for a racist purpose. A well publicised example of this was an Aboriginal memes Facebook page that consisted of various images of indigenous people with racist captions. It was reported that Facebook classified the page as ‘controversial humour’.\n\nArticle 20 of the ICCPR states “Any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence shall be prohibited by law.” Hate speech is intended to disturb violence or prejudicial actions against a group of people based on their ethnicity, race, nationality or sexual orientation. Cyberspace has also been used in this way as a medium for destruction. \n\nThe danger to human rights becomes apparent when terrorists form together to scheme and agitate people to commit violence towards a common good. “Al-Qaeda” moved to cyberspace, “the ultimate ungoverned territory” where schools were set up for promotion of ideological and military training and active propaganda arms. It has become a stated subject of importance that these situations are monitored to prepare for future generations of cyber-terrorists.\n\nThe future of human rights in cyberspace depends on the evolution of the law and its interpretation by national and international governing bodies. Jon Bing warns that once rules and regulations are automated, they become extremely arduous to subject to judicial review. Bing states that we face a situation in which “technology [is] implementing the law”. \n\nRoger Brownsword looked at some of the issues associated with developments in biotechnology and human rights alongside those raised by digital technologies and suggested three ethical positions on the issues: a utilitarian pragmatic stance, a defense of human rights, and a “dignitarian alliance”. Of the three positions, Brownsword claims the first two are popular in the UK, stating that technologies are being developed that treat human subjects as if they lack autonomy and the capacity to choose for themselves. \n\nRecent official discussions have taken place as to the future of cyberspace. In April 2008, the Virtual Law Conference was held in New York. The conference included participants such as Microsoft, Sony, and the Walt Disney Company. The agenda included discussion of intellectual property enforcement, legal issues arising from virtual currency, legal issues arising from virtual property, ethical concerns for attorneys and executives in virtual worlds, and how to litigate a virtual lawsuit. \n\nThe US Congressional Hearing on Virtual Worlds took place with the purpose of education and exploring the prospects of virtual worlds. The agenda included an analysis of concerns related to consumer protection, intellectual property protection, and child protection, among others. This hearing was one of the first legislative inquiries into virtual worlds. It remains to be seen whether either of these gatherings hold any lasting impact on the field, which continues to rapidly evolve in lockstep with advancing technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "8687839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8687839", "title": "Ingemar Hedenius", "text": "Ingemar Hedenius\n\nPer Arvid Ingemar Hedenius (5 April 1908 – 30 April 1982) was a Swedish philosopher. He was Professor of Practical Philosophy at Uppsala University (1947-1973). He was a famous opponent of organised Christianity. The Swedish Humanist Association, known in Sweden as \"Humanisterna\", offers the Ingemar Hedenius Award each year to support humanist ideas and critical thinking.\n\nHedenius' grandfather Per Hedenius (1828-1896) was a famous professor of pathology and for a while rector of Uppsala University. His father Israel Hedenius (1868-1932) was in 1900 a doctor of medicine and teacher of medical practice, and in 1927 was appointed personal physician to the King of Sweden. Hedenius' mother, born Anna Bergh, was from an upper class Norwegian family.\n\nThe two married in 1905 and had three children: Per (1905), Ingemar and Ann Marie (1909). Both parents were very religious.\n\nIngemar took the entrance examination for the Norra Latin school in 1927. After he completed upper secondary school he studied at Uppsala University where he wrote his doctoral thesis \"Sensationalism and theology in Berkeley's philosophy\", discussing the philosophy of George Berkeley. On 8 June 1979 Hedenius received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of Theology at Uppsala University, Sweden.\n\nSvante Nordin, professor of history of science and ideas at Lund University, published a book in 2004 called \"Ingemar Hedenius: en filosof och hans tid\" (\"Ingemar Hedenius: a philosopher and his time\"). This gives a picture of Ingemar Hedenius based on a rich collection of letters and other documents. According to the text at the back of the book, Hedenius was \"a person with strong musical, artistic and literary interests. He liked to play the flute, including performing in public. [...] harsh both in writing and in speech with enemies and opponents, gentle and sensitive with his friends.\"\n\nHedenius was from 1957 till 1960 publisher of the bimonthly magazine Kulturkontakt, a publication of the CIA-backed Congress of Cultural Freedom and the Svenska kommittén för kulturens frihet (Swedish Committee for Cultural Freedom).\n\nHedenius became best known for his book \"Tro och vetande\" (\"Belief and Knowledge\"), published in 1949. This book started off one of the most wide-ranging cultural debates ever in Sweden. The debate was about the truthfulness of the teachings of Christianity and also about the position of the church in society. He rejected organised Christianity, especially the established role of the Church of Sweden. In \"Belief and Knowledge\" he described three postulates which theology does not comply with, to show that it is not possible to have a rational debate about religion. According to Hedenius this means that theology can not be classed as knowledge, but belongs outside it as \"quasi-knowledge\":\n\n\nHedenius was of the opinion that Christianity violates these rules and is therefore irrational. Amongst other things, he proposed that the study of religions and their development should be separated from theology and become a non-religious academic discipline.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839724", "title": "Irresistible force paradox", "text": "Irresistible force paradox\n\nMany believe this to be an impossible paradigm (see below) but it's the basis of nuclear fusion. In nuclear physics, nuclear fusion is a reaction in which two or more atomic nuclei are combined to form one or more different atomic nuclei and subatomic particles. The difference in mass between the reactants and products is manifested as either the release or absorption of energy. So, what happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object? The colliders combine and create energy. \n\nThe unstoppable force paradox, also called the irresistible force paradox, shield and spear paradox, is a classic paradox formulated as \"What happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object?\" The immovable object and the unstoppable force are both implicitly assumed to be indestructible, or else the question would have a trivial resolution. Furthermore, it is assumed that they are two entities.\n\nThe paradox arises because it rests on two incompatible premises: that there can exist simultaneously such things as \"unstoppable forces\" and \"immovable objects\". The \"paradox\" is flawed because if there exists an unstoppable force, it follows logically that there cannot be any such thing as an immovable object and vice versa.\n\nAn example of this paradox in non-western thought can be found in the origin of the Chinese word for contradiction (). This term originates from a story in the 3rd century BC philosophical book \"Han Feizi\". In the story, a man was trying to sell a spear and a shield. When asked how good his spear was, he said that his spear could pierce any shield. Then, when asked how good his shield was, he said that it could defend from all spear attacks. Then one person asked him what would happen if he were to take his spear to strike his shield; the seller could not answer. This led to the idiom of \"zìxīang máodùn\" (自相矛盾, \"from phrase spear shield\"), or \"self-contradictory\".\n\nAnother ancient and mythological example illustrating this theme can be found in the story of the Teumessian fox, who can never be caught, and the hound Laelaps, who never misses what it hunts. Realizing the paradox, Zeus turns both creatures into static stars.\n\nThe problems associated with this paradox can be applied to any other conflict between two abstractly defined extremes that are opposite.\n\nOne of the answers generated by seeming paradoxes like these is that there is no contradiction – that there is a false dilemma. Dr. Christopher Kaczor suggested that the need to change indicates a lack of power rather than the possession thereof, and as such a person who was omniscient would never need to change their mind – not changing the future would be consistent with omniscience rather than contradicting it.\n\nIn the same way, an unstoppable force, an object or force with infinite inertia, would be consistent with the definition of an immovable object, in that they would be one and the same. Any object whose momentum or motion cannot be changed is an immovable object, and it would halt any object that moved relative to it, making it an unstoppable force.\n\nA deterministic universe may contain more than one of such forces/objects as long as they are never determined to meet in the entire history of such a universe. Indeed, in the context of such a universe, one could redefine the words \"irresistible\" and \"immovable\" to \"is never successfully resisted\" and \"is never successfully moved\" (within the fixed history of said deterministic universe) instead of the counterfactual possibilities. This is similar to the Novikov self-consistency principle of the grandfather paradox in time-travel scenarios.\n\nIn Iain Banks's novel, \"Walking on Glass\", a supremely satisfying solution to the paradox is given.\n\nIn DC Comics' \"All-Star Superman\" by Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely, Superman encounters the Ultrasphinx, who asks \"What happens when the unstoppable force meets the immovable object?\", to which Superman answers \"They surrender.\"\n\nAt Wrestlemania III, color commentator Gorilla Monsoon described the match of Andre the Giant vs Hulk Hogan as \"The irresistible force meeting the immovable object.\"\n\nIn the film \"Imagine Me And You\" (2005) the irresistible force paradox is a recurring theme first mentioned by H and last referenced by Heck who compares Rachel's love for Luce as the unstoppable force and himself as the immovable object saying, \"What you're feeling is the unstoppable force, which means I have to move.\"\n\nIn \"Knight Rider\", KITT references the paradox when he was faced with the possibility of having a Head-on collision with his prototype version called KARR, who has most of KITT's abilities including a nearly indestructible body.\n\nIn DC's film \"The Dark Knight\" (2008), the Joker references the irresistible force paradox in both his final scene, as well as his final dialogue between himself and Batman. The Joker attempts to ultimately explain the reason for Batman's inability to shed his Batman identity, saying, \"You just couldn't let me go, could you? This is what happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object. You truly are incorruptible, aren't you, huh? You won't kill me out of some misplaced sense of self-righteousness, and I won't kill you because you're just too much fun. I think you and I are destined to do this forever.\"\n\nIn the video game World of Warcraft, players could gain a mace named \"The Unstoppable Force\" and a shield called \"The Immovable Object\". And humorously, there also appears an apparent resolution to the paradox with \"The Stoppable Force\" and \"The Movable Object\".\n\nThe rock band Jane's Addiction use this paradox in the lyrics of the song \"Irresistible Force\" on their album \"The Great Escape Artist\" (2011)\n\nIn season 5, episode 13 of Burn notice, Oswald refers to Michael Westen as an \"unstoppable force\", and refers to himself as an \"immovable object\". (2011)\n\n"}
{"id": "40819382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40819382", "title": "Jan Hartman (philosopher)", "text": "Jan Hartman (philosopher)\n\nJan Marek Hartman (born 18 March 1967) is a Jewish-Polish philosopher and bioethicist, humanities professor, writer, publicist, academic and politician.\n\nHe is the son of mathematics professor and a great-great grandson of rabbi Izaak Kramsztyk.\n\nHartman graduated from the Catholic University of Lublin in 1990. He received his PhD from the Jagiellonian University in 1995, since 1994 he worked at the Philosophy Institute of that university. In years 2005–2008 he was the professor at Pułtusk Academy of Humanities. Since 2009 he is a professor of Jagiellonian University, where he is a philosophy lecturer. In 2008 he received the title of humanities professor. In 2013-2014, he was a member of Polish national ethics committee (\"Komisja do spraw etyki w ochronie zdrowia\").\n\nIn his philosophical work Hartman focuses on ethics and bioethics, his scientific interests also include especially metaphilosophy and political philosophy.\n\nHartman is also known as a left-winged publicist, he's been publishing in magazines such as \"Gazeta Wyborcza\", \"Tygodnik Powszechny\", \"Dziennik Gazeta Prawna\", \"Rzeczpospolita\", \"Polityka\", \"Newsweek Polska\" and \"Przekrój\". In 2009 he was awarded with Grand Press for the best publicist.\n\nHe is active in the politics. In 2011 Polish parliamentary election he was a candidate for the MP of Democratic Left Alliance. He received 2209 votes and didn't manage to get to the parliament.\n\nHartman had been a member of the anti-clerical Your Movement party from its inception in October 2013 to September 2014, having been considered one its key members. 2014 has proved to be very onerous for the party when it received mere 3,6% of the votes in the elections to the European Parliament of 2014, lagging far behind its rivalry Democratic of the Left Alliance. The precarious voting results threatened the very existence of the party when many of its members quit. Despite proving his loyalty, Hartman soon lost his membership after publishing on his blog an article regarding recent debates on the legality of incest in Germany (by the Deutscher Ethikrat) and proposing to open a discussion on this topic in Poland. The public opinion was outraged and went as far as to accuse him of espousing incest, which he denied. Soon, a voting inside the party was held and Hartman was expelled, having lost 7 to 1. Hartman condemned the decision, criticising it as \"curtailing freedom of speech in a party whose main precept was in fact freedom\".\n\nIn 1989 he married Barbara. Their daughter, Zofia, was born in 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21425567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21425567", "title": "Jan Pinborg", "text": "Jan Pinborg\n\nJan Pinborg (1937–1982) was a renowned historian of medieval linguistics and philosophy of language, and the most famous member of the Copenhagen School of Medieval Philosophy pioneered by Heinrich Roos in the 1940s. Pinborg was a pupil of Roos. \n\n\nHe was a co-editor, along with Norman Kretzmann and Anthony Kenny, of \"The Cambridge History of Later Medieval Philosophy\" (1982).\n\n"}
{"id": "30157254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30157254", "title": "Jane Maienschein", "text": "Jane Maienschein\n\nDr. Jane Maienschein (born September 23, 1950 in Tennessee) is an American professor and director of the Center for Biology and Society, at Arizona State University.\n\nShe was admitted to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, as a freshman, then later transferred to Yale University in 1969 where she was a member of Manuscript Society. In 1972, she graduated with honors in History, the Arts, and Letters. She then attended Indiana University to conduct her Ph.D work. Her mentor, Dr. Frederick Churchill, was interested in historical embryological research. Maienschein was awarded a Fellowship at the Smithsonian, to study the history of microscopy. The National Science Foundation provided funding for her dissertation. Maienschein became involved with the Marine Biological Laboratory, in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, to research historical embryology, morphogenesis and cellular differentiation. Maienschein researched the history and philosophy of developmental biology as well as issues surrounding stem cell research and regenerative medicine.\n\nMaienschein focuses on the social, political, and legal contexts of scientific research and is currently the director of the Center for Biology and Society, at Arizona State University, which states the goal of \"promoting exploration of conceptual foundations and historical development of the biosciences and their diverse interactions with society.\" To quote the CBS, \"We engage in activities across multiple disciplines that allow opportunities for intellectual ferment and increased impact by creating research and educational collaborations and communication.\" Maienschein and colleague Manfred Laubichler are particularly interested in evolutionary developmental biology. The School of Life Sciences has received millions of dollars from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute to develop the School of Life Sciences Undergraduate Research (SOLUR) program, a research program. Maienschein served as the first president for the International Society for History, Philosophy, and Social Studies of Biology in 1989–1991 and served as president of the History of Science Society. She is Director of The Embryo Project Encyclopedia, along with Dr. Manfred Laubichler.\n\nMaienschein has received the ASU Parents Association Professor of the Year, Regents' Professorship, and President's Professorship. In 1998, she received the History of Science Society's Hazen Education Award. Maienschein accompanies her students yearly, to the annual American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Meetings. Maienschein's has created the Biology and Society; Bioethics, Policy, and Law; The History and Philosophy of Science; Ecology, Economics, Ethics and Environment; The Embryo Project Encyclopedia, ASU's Bioethics in Films Series, Responsible Conduct in Research and the History of Biology projects held at the Marine Biological Laboratory.\n\nMaienschein is a Fellow of the Association for Women in Science (AWIS) and AAAS, has served two terms as a board member for national AWIS in Washington, D.C. She has published over 20 articles and several books. She was published in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy on \"Epigenesis and Preformation\". Maienschein wrote \"Whose View of Life?: Embryos, Cloning, and Stem Cells\". Maienschein and Manfred Laubichler collaborated to co-write: \"From Embryology to Evo-Devo: A History of Developmental Evolution\" and Form and Function in Developmental Evolution.\n\nIn 2009, Maienschein presented, with Tedx Talks on \"Stem Cells, Regenerative Medicine and Us\". In November 2010, Maienschein was named the 2010 Arizona Professor of the Year, by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and the Council for Advancement and Support of Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "37447383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37447383", "title": "Johann Heinrich Ernesti", "text": "Johann Heinrich Ernesti\n\nJohann Heinrich Ernesti (12 March 1652 – 16 October 1729) was a Saxon philosopher, Lutheran theologian, Latin classicist and poet. He was rector of the Thomasschule, and Professor of Poetry at Leipzig University. He gained fame through his writings on Cicero.\n\nErnesti was born in Königsfeld, the son of the preacher Daniel Ernesti. He received his first lessons from his father, who was a Königsfeld rector. Later, he attended high school in Altenburg under his cousin Jacob Daniel Ernesti. From 1670, he studied theology and philosophy at the University of Leipzig, where he became Baccalaureus in 1672, and in 1674 Master of Philosophy.\n\nIn 1680 he was appointed as an assessor at the Faculty of Arts of the University. Furthermore, he worked until 1682 as a Saturday preacher at the Church of St. Nicholas. He was conrector (vice-principal) from 1680 and from 1684 to 1729 rector (principal) of the Thomasschule, succeeding Jacob Thomasius. He introduced a new education policy, including allowing school prayer in German. He served for 45 years, the longest term of office of all known principals. His successor was the influential Johann Matthias Gesner.\n\nFrom 1691 Ernesti was professor of poetry at the University of Leipzig. He taught about Roman poets Horace, Ovid, Juvenal and Virgil and also more recent Latin writers such as Helius Eobanus Hessus. Ernesti himself was active as a writer, his output included panegyrics. His most important work was \"14 Selectarum Orationum Liber\" (Marcus Tullius Cicero).\nWhen composer Johann Sebastian Bach applied for the post of cantor (choirmaster) in 1723, Ernesti was the rector of the school.\n\nErnesti died on 16 October 1729 in Leipzig.\n\nFor the memorial service for Ernesti's death held on 21 October 1729 in the Paulinerkirche, the university church, Bach composed the motet \"Der Geist hilft unser Schwachheit auf, BWV 226\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50549349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50549349", "title": "John H. Eicher", "text": "John H. Eicher\n\nJohn Harold Eicher (March 30, 1921 – June 7, 2016) was an organic chemist, philosopher of science, historian, and author. He was a Manhattan Project scientist who worked at Columbia University to develop the first atomic bomb, and taught chemistry at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, for 37 years. Eicher was the author of several chemistry publications and, with his son David J. Eicher, was coauthor of \"Civil War High Commands\", a significant reference book published by Stanford University Press.\n\nIn 2016, Eicher was elected by the State of Ohio to the class of 2016, Ohio Senior Citizens of the Year., an honor that in the past has recognized such Ohioans as Walter Alston, Paul Brown, Phyllis Diller, Lillian Gish, John Glenn, Paul Newman, and Lowell Thomas. He continued to teach for Miami University's Institute for Learning and Retirement for many years, and because of this, was a teacher for 75 continuous years (in 1941 he first taught, as an assistant, a mineralogy class at Purdue University).\n\nThe product of German, Swiss, and a small amount of Delaware Native American ancestry, Eicher was born in Dayton, Ohio. As a youth, he came to know such Daytonians as Orville Wright (1871–1948) and Charles Franklin Kettering (1876–1958). Eicher's father, Harold Ralph Eicher (1892–1968) was a sales manager with such firms as the National Cash Register Co., the Davis Sewing Machine and Bicycle Co., the Duro Pump Co., the A. B. Farquhar Co., and the Master Electric Co. His mother, Myrtle Grace (née Wetzel) Eicher (1894–1989) was a seamstress, public school teacher, artist, china painter, piano and organ teacher, and club organizer.\n\nEicher attended Fairview Elementary School, where he was class president and honorary treasurer of the City of Dayton. He was an ardent collector of postage stamps, minerals, and books, and an amateur actor, starring as Jim Hawkins in Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island in 1935 at Camp Kern, Oregonia, Ohio. Eicher organized a chemical laboratory at his home in Dayton, and practiced chemistry and all aspects of photography with a Leica camera. During the summers he traveled with his parents to all 48 states, plus trips to Alaska, Canada, Mexico, Cuba, and Central America including Panama. He particularly enjoyed the western national parks, especially Yellowstone, Grand Teton, Rocky Mountain, Crater Lake, Mount Rainier, Glacier, Yosemite, Bryce, Mesa Verde, and the Grand Canyon. He loved hiking and exploring old mines, as a follow-up to his first western trip in 1926, when he visited Pikes Peak, Colorado. Eicher studied chemistry at Fairview High School, where he was the laboratory assistant. There, he placed first in the 1938 district scholarship and fourth in Ohio. \nAt Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana, he continued his chemistry studies, obtaining a B.S. degree in 1942. While an undergraduate, he prepared sulfamic acid, used in the preparation of various sulfa drugs at Johns Hopkins University; he collected scrap iron for the war effort; and he was chapter president of Alpha Phi Omega, a service fraternity. He also served as laboratory assistant in mineralogy for the Purdue School of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering.\n\nMoving to the Ohio State University in Columbus, Eicher helped in the preparation of aviation gasoline components such as triptane, a reference compound, which was sent to the Royal Air Force during the Battle of Britain. He joined the American Chemical Society in 1943, later serving as an assistant secretary and as a councilor.\n\nIn mid-1943 Eicher joined the Manhattan Project at Columbia University in New York, working first with Willard Libby (1908–1980), Nobel Laureate in 1960; then with Harold C. Urey (1893–1981), chair of the chemistry department and 1934 Nobel Laureate; with John R. Dunning (1907–1975), dean of engineering; and with Leslie R. Groves (1896–1970), major general, commanding the Manhattan Engineer District. There Eicher worked on the synthesis of fluorocarbons used as lubricants, as plastics such as Teflon. He then worked on pilot plant tests for the enrichment of uranium-235. Finally, Eicher spent two years along with colleague Albert L. Myerson (1919–2004) constructing and operating a gas viscosimeter used to study uranium hexafluoride at various temperatures and pressures, the data from which were used in the production of uranium isotopes at the large gaseous diffusion plant at Oak Ridge, Tennessee.\n\nReturning to Purdue University in 1945 for graduate studies, Eicher taught organic technic and qualitative analysis for six years as an assistant instructor. He became a longtime chapter secretary for the Phi Lambda Upsilon national chemistry honorary, and a member of the research Society of the Sigma Xi. With colleague Alec Kelley (1923–2013), he founded a Unitarian fellowship which later became the Unitarian-Universalist Church of Lafayette, Indiana. Eicher then worked on the preparation of various nitro and oximino compounds to earn his Ph.D. in 1952. One of his dissertation advisors was Herbert C. Brown (1912–2004), 1979 Nobel Laureate. Eicher often visited with his friend Linus C. Pauling (1901–1994), who won two Nobel Prizes, one for chemistry in 1954 and the Peace Prize in 1962.\n\nEicher joined the chemistry department at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, in 1952, and he subsequently taught chemistry there for 37 years. In 1953 he organized a student and faculty liberal religious club at Miami which became a Unitarian Fellowship and later evolved into the Hopedale Unitarian-Universalist Community. \nOn June 12, 1957, Eicher married Susan Ann Arne (1923–1983), a sociologist and legal secretary, in Sarasota, Florida, where the couple's parents had retired. Their honeymoon was a month-long freighter cruise to Central and South America. They had two children, Nancy Grace Eicher (1959– ), a journalist and editor, and David John Eicher (1961– ), astronomer, historian, mineralogist, and editor of \"Astronomy\" magazine\n\nEicher and his family spent the summer of 1966 in Washington, D.C., where he was a member of the Institute for the Philosophy of Science and Mathematics, sponsored by the National Science Foundation at American University.\n\nEicher and his son David made many trips to visit Civil War battlefields, mostly in the 1980s and 1990s, and together wrote \"Civil War High Commands\" (Stanford University Press, 2001). Eicher collaborated with his son on a number of other Civil War book projects as well.\nIn 2008, Eicher, his son David, and his grandson Christopher (1992– ) studied World War II history during a long summer trip to France, Belgium, The Netherlands, Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Austria, Switzerland, and England.\n"}
{"id": "37290519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37290519", "title": "Josephine MacLeod", "text": "Josephine MacLeod\n\nJosephine MacLeod (1858–1949) was an American friend and devotee of Swami Vivekananda. She had a strong attachment to India and was an active participant in the Ramakrishna Vivekananda movement.\nShe was given the nicknames \"Tantine\" and \"Jo Jo\" by Vivekananda. She considered Swami Vivekananda to be her friend and helped him with his finances. She and Sister Nivedita exchanged letters discussing their positive impressions of Swami Vivekananda and they competed with each other for his attention.\nJosephine was not a sanyasin, unlike many others such as Sister Nivedita or Sister Christine. She was instrumental in spreading Vivekananda's message on Vedanta in the West.\nShe had many contributions to the initial and the later phases of the development of the order of Ramakrishna and Vivekananda. She was a contributor to many causes espoused by Sister Nivedita, the most famous disciple of Vivekananda, including that of contributing financially towards the development of Indian National Movement esp. in Bengal and elsewhere in India.\n\nJosephine was born in 1858 to John David MacLeod and Mary Ann Lennon. Josephine's father was an American of Scottish descent. Her native place was Chicago. The couple had three sons and three daughters. Two of their daughters, Besse or Betty (1852—1931) and Josephine (1858—1949), became disciples of Swami Vivekananda. Betty married Mr. William Sturges of Chicago in the year 1876, and had a son named Hollister and a daughter named Alberta, who were also intimately connected with the Vedanta Societies and Ramakrishna order. Being unmarried herself, Josephine stayed with Betty and her family. After the death of William Sturges in 1894, Betty married Mr. Francis Legett, a businessman of New York, in 1895. Swami Vivekananda attended this marriage in Paris. Ridgely Manor, which later became famous as one of the places to accommodate Swami Vivekananda during his travel to Americas and Europe in 1899, belonged to the Legett family.\nJosephine was known by several other nicknames, including Joe, Jo-Jo, Yum and Tantine (meaning \"Aunty\").\n\nJosephine and her sister Betty first heard Swami Vivekananda's lecture on Vedanta philosophy in New York City on 29 January 1895. Their friend R. Dora Roetheslesberger had told them about Vivekananda. They had assembled in the sitting room of Vivekananda's apartment along with many other women and a few men. His lecture impressed her and she observed at the end of the lecture that the way he presented truth was something unique. She heard his lectures several times over the next seven years. \nThe meeting with Swami Vivekananda and her association with him for the remaining periods of his life in America and India was the most important event in her life according to her. She was deeply impressed and thereby began to cultivate a relationship which would be long lasting and significant for her.\n\nMacLeod became a member of the Vedanta Society established by Vivekananda and pursued the study and practice of Vedanta. This interaction gave her a different perspective of living in \"eternity.\" Vivekananda noted \"I simply adore Joe (Josephine MacLeod) in her tact and quiet way. She is a feminine statesman or woman. She can wield a kingdom. I have seldom seen such strong yet good common sense in a human being.\" Josephine considered the propagation of Swamiji's message of Indian spirituality in the West as a responsibility.\n\nJosephine was 35 years old when she met Swamiji. She considered the day she met Vivekananda for the first time, 29 January 1895, to be her \"spiritual birthday\". She said, \"It is the Truth that I saw in Swamiji that has set me free; it was to set me free that Swamiji came.\" As a result of her constant interaction with Vivekananda during his lectures on Vedanta, her devotion to his teachings became so profound that she believed that he was the \"New Buddha\" and even called him \"Our Prophet.\"\n\nJosephine did not like anyone addressing her as Vivekananda's disciple; she would immediately retort that she was his friend. Her niece, later Lady Sandwich, remarked that she was not Swami's friend but \"Him\". Vivekananda held her in great esteem and would write to her on his inner feelings, which he did not share with anyone else, including the brother monks or his \"Madras Boys\". He noted in one letter that \"I can't even in imagination pay the immense debt of gratitude I owe you.\" On issues of conflict between the British in India and the Belur Math in Calcutta, she intervened with officials in the British Government in England to resolve the issues.\n\nWhen she was in London when Vivekananda was also lecturing there in 1896, the best fruit of every season was delivered to him from an anonymous person. The firm of William Whitley, a popular fruit dealer in London had been paid for such delivery by an anonymous benefactor. Pineapple, a rare fruit in London which was valued at a quarter per fruit, was delivered to him every day. The benefactor was thought to be Josephine, as she was in London when the fruit delivery started.\n\nShe defended Vivekananda's religious ethos when, during her visit to India with him, she stated that \"our Swamiji's great exposition of Vedanta Philosophy always favoured than denied the mission of Christ, and left Christians better Christians...\" Because Josephine's efforts in the US and the West were so strong, Swamiji named her a \"lady missionary\" of the Ramakrishna Order promoted by Vivekananda.\n\nMs. MacLeod had asked Swmi Vivekananda if she would accompany him to India. His response was, \"Yes, come, if you want filth and degradation and poverty and many loin cloths talking religion. Don't come if you want anything else. We cannot bear one more criticism.\" She came to India and on being asked what she could do for him (Swami Vivekananda), the latter replied gravely, \"Love India.\"\n\nRecalling the Swami’s lecture on the Bhagavad gita, the foremost of the Hindu scriptures, sometime in 1895, she was quoted as saying, later: \"I saw with these very eyes (she pointed to her own eyes) Krishna himself standing there and preaching the Gita. That was my first wonderful vision. I stared and stared. . . .I saw only the figure and all else vanished\".\nIn 1898 she visited India and traveled with Swami Vivekananda to North India including Almora, Kashmir and parts of Punjab. When in India she used to stay in Belur Math, in the old house along with Mrs. Sara Bull.\nShe took every possible care of the Swami when he arrived in New York for the second time in 1899 while he stayed in Ridgely Manor or elsewhere in the America.\nCapt. Sevier, who, along with his wife Mrs. Charlotte Sevier became disciple of Swami Vivekananda after attending the latter's lectures in London and who established the Advaita Ashrama in Mayawati, had consulted first Miss Macleod on her impression about Vivekananda\nIn 1900, Ms. Macleod traveled with Swami Vivekananda when the latter visited Paris to participate in the Congress of History of Religions, accompanied by Madame Emma Calve, Père Hyacynthe and Jules Bois. The team traveled through south West Europe to Constantinople, Athens, and finally to Cairo from where Swami returned to India.\n\nFollowing Vivekananda's death in 1902, she went into a depression for two years, after which she devoted the next four decades to the cause of promoting the Vedantic ethos of the Swamiji. In his last letter to her, Vivekenanda wrote, \"You have been a good angel to me\". In a previous letter, he had written, \"and to you, dear Joe, Pranams.\" Even after the death of Vivekananda, Josephine remained in touch with the Ramakrishna Order and often visited the Belur Math headquarters of the Order and stayed for many days.\n\nJosephine was also very close to Sister Nivedita, the disciple of Swami Vivekananda who dedicated her life towards education of Indian women and towards the cause of revival of Indian Nationalism. She travelled to Japan and introduced Kakuso Okakura, the painter and artist and Prince Oda, a Buddhist Abbot, to Vivekananda.\n\nShe provided the initial funding of $800 for the establishment of Udbodhan press, which was used to publish the Udbodhan Patrika, monthly Bengali magazine of the Ramakrishna Order.\n\nJosephine Macleod also helped Ramakrishna Mission in tiding over political crises. In December 1916 Lord Carmichael, the then Lt-Governor of Bengal, made a statement casting aspersions on Ramakrishna Mission. Ramakrishna Math and Mission was always under close surveillance of the Government because of the alleged involvement of some of its monks in terrorist activities like involvement with the Anushilan Samity during the Partition of Bengal before they renounced the world, and also because Swami Vivekananda's fiery speeches and ideals inspired many freedom fighters like Aurobindo Ghosh. Swami Saradananda, the Secretary of Ramakrishna Mission, under the advice of the Holy Mother Sri Sarada Devi, met the Governor who subsequently retracted his statement. However Ramakrishna Mission was helped by the contacts at the high level that Josephine Macleod had, to form a favorable opinion in the Government circle.\n\nShe also persuaded Swami Nityatmananda, a close associate of Mahendranath Gupta or M, the author of The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna, to publish the viewpoints of M on Swami Vivekananda, which later appeared in the fifth volume of the Ramakrishna Kathamrita, the original Bengali version of the Gospel, as an appendix.\n\nShe was in touch with many contemporary luminaries including George Bernard Shaw and Romain Rolland. She helped extensively in spreading the message of Vedanta and Swami Vivekananda's teachings in particular in various European languages including German. She also worked extensively for the cause of advancement of education of women in India, through her regular financial contribution to the school found and run by Sister Nivedita.\n\nFrench scholar & Nobel Laurate Romain Rolland wrote of Josephine Macleod \"(She) never tires of pointing out his (Vivekananda’s) beauty, his charm, the power of attraction which was radiating from him.\"\n\nShe helped in conducting the first centenary celebration of the birth of Sri Ramakrishna in Calcutta in 1937.\n\nEven though closely affiliated with an organization which took a leading role in Hindu renaissance, she remained a Christian in faith. In her own words, she had become a better Christian through the influence of Vivekananda.\n\nJosephine died in California in the autumn of 1949. At the time of her death, she was living at the Vedanta Society of Southern California's center in Hollywood.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25626300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25626300", "title": "Journal of Transpersonal Psychology", "text": "Journal of Transpersonal Psychology\n\nThe Journal of Transpersonal Psychology (JTP) is a semi-annual, peer-reviewed academic journal which is published by the Association for Transpersonal Psychology. The journal is the principal publication in the field of Transpersonal psychology. According to sources the journal is addressing the interface between psychology and spirituality, and the area of spirituality as a legitimate topic for academic studies.\n\nThe journal was founded by Abraham Maslow and Anthony Sutich in 1969, and grew out of the humanistic psychology and counterculture of the late 1960s. According to Taylor the new journal was dedicated to the study of ultimate human capacities; unitive consciousness; peak experiences; ecstasy; mystical experiences; and self-transcendence.\n\nIts current editor is Marcie Boucouvalas. Current members of the board of editors include: Paul Clemens, Jack Engler, James Fadiman, Jorge Ferrer, Daniel Goleman, Elmer Green, Stanislav Grof, Tobin Hart, Michael Hutton, Stanley Krippner, Lawrence LeShan, John Levy, Francis G. Lu, David Lukoff, Michael Murphy, Peter L. Nelson, Kaisa Puhakka, Huston Smith, Tonu Soidla, Charles T. Tart, Frances E. Vaughan, Jenny Wade, Michael Washburn, John Welwood\n\n"}
{"id": "1759006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1759006", "title": "Knights Templar Seal", "text": "Knights Templar Seal\n\nThe Grand Masters of the Knights Templar during the later 12th and the 13th century used a double-sided seal which showed a representation of The Dome of the Rock (or a circular dome of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre) on one side, and the Order's symbol of two knights on one horse on the other side. \nThis design is first attested as in use by Bertrand de Blanquefort, the order's sixth Grand Master, in 1158, forty years after its foundation, and it remained in use until the dissolution of the order in 1312.\n\nThere was also a smaller, single-sided seal, which showed the Dome of the Rock (or the Holy Sepulchre), only.\n\nDifferent seals were used by provincial masters of the order. According to a papal bull issued by Innocent IV in 1251, it was customary for successive provincial masters to use the same seal.\nThe master of Provence continued to use an Agnus Dei seal, while the seal of the Aragonese master William of Cardona and his successors depicted a knight on horseback, carrying a lance and shield, on which was a cross bearing the legend: \"S. MINISTRI TEMPLI 1 ARAGON 7 CATALON\" (\"Seal of the minister of the Temple in Aragon and Catalonia\").\n\nThe reverse of Bertrand de Blancafort's seal,\nMaster of the Temple 1168 in Staatsarchiv Amberg\n\nThe reverse of Grand Master William de Chartres seal from 1214 also depicts the Dome of the Rock.\n\nIn heraldry, a Lamb of God (or paschal lamb, or agnus Dei) is a lamb passant proper, with a halo or charged with a cross gules, and the dexter forelimb reflexed over a cross staff from which a pennon of St. George (Argent a cross gules) is flotant.\nThe seals of the Masters of the Temple in England: of Aimery de St Maur, 1200, Robert of Sandford, 1241, Richard of Hastings, 1160–85, and William de la More, 1304, showed the agnus Dei.\n\nSIGILLVM TEMPLI\nThe obverse of a seal used by William de la More, master, 1304, resembles the above text . The reverse, a small oval counter-seal, with beaded borders, shows on the right a couped bust of a bearded man wearing a cap. and have the legend:— TESTIS SUM AGNI (\"I am a witness to the Lamb\")\nWilliam de la More, styled \"frater Willelmus de la More miliciae\". The seal is called \"commune sigillum capituli\". The seal symbolic of their vow of poverty, showing two knights riding on one horse appears only to have been used by the order in France; there is no example of its use in England.\n\nSome of the seals of the English Templars were a semi-typical Pascal lamb bearing sometimes, not the flag of St George (or the cross), but the Beauseant, the battle banner of the order.\nOther seals:\nDurham Cathedral Muniments, Medieval Seal G&B reference number: 3388\nKnights of the Temple 1304 Description: Round. The Holy Lamb with banner.\n\nThe Templar Seal showing two knights (perhaps Hugues de Payens and Godfrey de Saint-Omer) on one horse.\nThere are many interpretations of the symbolism of this seal.\n\n\nThe image of two knights on the horse was widely used:\n\nThe seals of the Grand Masters have textual differences:\nWhile Vichiers' motto is written in Latin, the word 'Christ' begins with Greek letters (Chi Rho) (Latin symbol, \"XP\") rather than the Latin CHR. The XP symbol arose early in Christianity and entered popular usage after the legendary pre-battle vision of Chi Rho and Christian conversion of the 4th century Roman Emperor Constantine. From the time of Constantine, XP was a significant symbol of Christianity, surpassed only by the cross itself. Early military associations make Chi Rho an apt symbol for the Templars. On de Vichiers' seal, Chi Rho is visible on the shields of the knights.\n\nThe Double-Headed Eagle is more commonly associated with the highest rank earned by a Scottish Rite Mason...\nBertram von Esbeck, Master of the Temple in Germany, 1296 depicts an eagle with two six-pointed stars.\n\nAragon;Tortosa; Late 13th century. Depicting a cross. Legend: SIGILLUM MILICIE TEMPLI IN DERTOSA\nAragon; Alfambra; 1248. Brown wax, round, 30 mm. in diameter, depicting a cross. Legend:...LUM CASTRI...\n\nA cross having arms narrow at the inner center, and very broad at the other end.\n\nA seal from Provence: the Templars from Roaix, Sérignan ... This knight, Giraud de Chamaret, hoists the templar cross and the \"fleur-de-lis\". 1234.\n\nThe seal of Brother Roustan de Comps, commander of the Order of the Temple at Richerenches, 1232, shows a single knight on horseback, bearing a shield with a cross: probably St. George.\nSeals of Brother Widekind, Master of the Temple in Germany, 1271, and Brother Frederick Wildergrave, 1289, showed Christ's head (or John the Baptist's head by other opinions)\n\nThe seal of Templar officials in Yorkshire c.1300 shows a tower with a pointed roof.\n\nAragon; Monzón; Early 14th century. Round, depicting a castle with three towers, with a griffin on each side. Legend: S. CASTELL...ONI.\nAragon; Huesca; Round, depicting a castle. Legend: S. DOM. TEMPLI DE OSCA\nAragon; Barbará; Early 14th century. Yellow wax, round, 29 mm. in diameter, depicting a castle between two fishes. Legend: S. COMMAND...BARBERA\n\nHere is a Templar cross found in the oldest tower of Château de Guilleragues in the Aquitaine region of France.\n\nThe word Abraxas (or Abrasax or Abracax) was engraved on certain antique stones, called Abraxas stones, which were used as amulets or charms by Gnostic sects. The image most associated with Abraxas is that of a composite creature with the head of a rooster, the body of a man, and legs made of serpents or scorpions; carrying a whip and shield. The Gnostics identified Abraxas with Yahweh (under the Greek form \"IAO\"). Amulets and seals bearing the figure of Abraxas were popular in the 2nd century, and these stones survived in the treasuries of the middle ages.\n\nAbraxas appears on the seal of a Templar Grand Master in a French charter dated 1214. The Templars' use of Abraxas as a seal was most likely a result of their expansive treasuries containing a number of ancient gemstones. Despite this use of Abraxas as a seal, no accusations of Gnosticism were made against the Templars (despite extensive torture and intense persecution), indicating that none of their beliefs or practices could have been construed as Gnostic.\n\nSeals of Brother Otto of Brunswich, commander of Supplingenburg, shows a lion;\nA seal of one Knight Templar, England, 1303 is showing the Lion of England and the cross pattée and the crescent moon of the Mother Goddess with stars.\nAragon; Miravet; 1278, 1287. Depicting a lion\n\nWilliam, Master of the Temple in Hungary and Slovenia, 1297, depicts a winged griffon\n\n"}
{"id": "15026786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15026786", "title": "Kobong", "text": "Kobong\n\nKobong \"soensanim\" (Korean: 고봉선사, Hanja: 高峯禪師, 1890–1962), the 77th Patriarch in his teaching lineage, was a Korean Zen master.\n\nAt an early age, Kobong became a monk at Namjangsa. Known for spontaneous and eccentric teaching, he sometimes said that he preferred to teach laypeople because monks were too lazy to practice hard.\n\nKobong never held a position at any temple or established a temple of his own. When he was elderly, his student Seungsahn brought him to Hwagyesa in Seoul, South Korea where Kobong died at the temple in 1962. A large granite monument was built in his honor on the hillside overlooking Hwagyesa.\n\nKobong Sunim was Dharma heir to Mangong Sunim, who was in turn Dharma heir to Kyongho Sunim. Kobong Sunim's best known student was Seungsahn Sunim (1927–2004), founder of the Kwan Um School of Zen. Seungsahn Sunim received Dharma transmission from Kobong Sunim at 22 years of age. Kobong had never given inka to any monk before he met Seungsahn Sunim and Seungsahn remained his only dharma heir.\n\nSunim is a Korean word that means ordained Buddhist and can refer to both men and women who have taken ordination vows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54646576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54646576", "title": "Konrad Talmont-Kamiński", "text": "Konrad Talmont-Kamiński\n\nKonrad Talmont-Kamiński (born 1 January 1971 in Chojnice, Poland) is an analytic philosopher and cognitive scientist, dealing with epistemology, philosophy of science, philosophy of mind and the theory of rationality. His work is also influenced by psychology, biology, history, anthropology and other disciplines.\n\nHe obtained his BA in History and Philosophy of Science from the University of Melbourne in Melbourne in 1994, his MA from the University of Western Ontario in London, Ontario, Canada in 1995, and his doctorate from Monash University in Melbourne in 1999, under the supervision of John Bigelow, PhD He then moved to Poland in 2001, where he first worked for the Polish Academy of Science, and later in the Maria Curie-Skłodowska University in Lublin, the Warsaw University of Finance and Management in Warsaw, Psychology Department, and University of Białystok in Białystok. He publishes in journals such as \"The Monist\", \"Frontiers in Psychology and Religion\", \"Brain and Behavior\", and \"Skeptical Inquirer magazine.\"\n\nDuring his scholarship at the Konrad Lorenz Institute for Evolution and Cognition Research in Vienna, Austria he began working on the cognitive basis of supernatural beliefs (superstitions, magic, and religion). The work resulted in a book published in 2014 \"Religion as a Magical Ideology: How the Supernatural Reflects Rationality\", for which he received his habilitation in 2014. He also presents his works in many conferences in Australia and Europe. He will be a speaker at the 17th European Skeptics Congress in Wrocław, Poland, where he will give a speech: \"Cognition and the Science/Religion Debate\".\n\nHis current interests are the empirical implications of the model proposed in the book, connecting ritualised behaviour with superstition, and the development of a broadly Peircean account of reason.\n\nSelected publications:\n\nList of books by Konrad Talmont-Kamiński:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19643233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19643233", "title": "List of examples of convergent evolution", "text": "List of examples of convergent evolution\n\nConvergent evolution — the repeated evolution of similar traits in multiple lineages which all ancestrally lack the trait — is rife in nature, as illustrated by the examples below. The ultimate cause of convergence is usually a similar evolutionary biome, as similar environments will select for similar traits in any species occupying the same ecological niche, even if those species are only distantly related. In the case of cryptic species, it can create species which are only distinguishable by analysing their genetics. Unrelated organisms often develop analogous structures by adapting to similar environments.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHere is a list of examples in which unrelated proteins have similar functions with different structure.\n\n\nHere is a list of examples in which unrelated proteins have similar tertiary structures but different functions. Whole protein structural convergence is not thought to occur but some convergence of pockets and secondary structural elements have been documented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36613018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36613018", "title": "List of medieval Latin commentators on Aristotle", "text": "List of medieval Latin commentators on Aristotle\n\nThis is a list of commentators on the works of Aristotle who wrote in Latin, from the Late Antique to the last years of the European Middle Ages. The names are given in their Latin forms.\n\n\"Sources\": Taken from Charles H. Lohr, \"Commentateurs d'Aristote au Moyen-Âge Latin\" (1988).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43945", "title": "Massage", "text": "Massage\n\nMassage is to work and act on the body with pressure. Massage techniques are commonly applied with hands, fingers, elbows, knees, forearms, feet, or a device. The purpose of massage is generally for the treatment of body stress or pain. A person who was professionally trained to give massages was traditionally known as a masseur (male) or a masseuse (female). The title massage therapist has been recognized as a business norm.\n\nIn professional settings, clients are treated while lying on a massage table, sitting in a massage chair, or lying on a mat on the floor. In amateur settings, a general purpose surface like a bed or the floor is more common. \"Aquatic\" massage and bodywork is performed with recipients submersed or floating in a warm-water therapy pool.\n\nThe word comes from the French \"massage\" \"friction of kneading\", which, in turn, comes from the Arabic word مَسَّ \"massa\" meaning \"to touch, feel\".\n\nOthers claim an origin from the Portuguese \"amassar\" \"knead\", from the Latin \"massa\" meaning \"mass, dough\", from the Greek verb μάσσω (\"massō\") \"to handle, touch, to work with the hands, to knead dough\". In distinction the ancient Greek word for massage was \"anatripsis\", and the Latin was \"frictio\".\n\nArchaeological evidence of massage has been found in many ancient civilizations including China, India, Japan, Korea, Egypt, Rome, Greece, and Mesopotamia.\n\nBC 2330: The Tomb of Akmanthor (also known as \"The Tomb of the Physician\") in Saqqara, Egypt depicts two men having work done on their feet and hands, presumably massage.\nBC 722-481: \"Huangdi Neijing\" is composed during the Chinese Spring and Autumn period. The Nei-jing is a compilation of medical knowledge known up to that date, and is the foundation of Traditional Chinese Medicine. Massage is referred to in 30 different chapters of the Nei Jing. It specifies the use of different massage techniques and how they should be used in the treatment of specific ailments, and injuries. Also known as \"The Yellow Emperor's Inner Canon\", the text refers to previous medical knowledge from the time of the Yellow Emperor (approx 2700 BC), misleading some into believing the text itself was written during the time of the Yellow Emperor (which would predate written history).\n\nBC 762 \"In the Iliad and the Odyssey the massage with oils and aromatic substances is mentioned as a means to relax the tired limbs of warriors and a way to help the treatment of wounds,\"\n\nBC 700 Bian Que, the earliest known Chinese physician uses massage in medical practice.\n\nBC 500 Jīvaka Komarabhācca, also known as Shivago Komarpaj, the founder of Traditional Thai massage (Nuad Boran) and Thai medicine. According to the Pāli Buddhist Canon, Jivaka was Shakyamuni Buddha's physician. He codified a healing system that combines acupressure, reflexology, and assisted yoga postures. Traditional Thai massage is generally based on a combination of Indian and Chinese traditions of medicine. Jivaka is known today as \"Father Doctor\" in Thailand.\n\nBC 493: A possible biblical reference documents daily \"treatments\" with oil of myrrh as a part of the beauty regimen of the wives of Xerxes (Esther, 2:12).\n\nBC 460: Hippocrates wrote \"The physician must be experienced in many things, but assuredly in rubbing\".\n\nBC 300 Charaka Samhita believed to be the oldest of the three ancient treatises of Ayurvedic medicine, including massage. Sanskrit records indicate that massage had been practiced in India long before the beginning of recorded history.\n\nAD 581: Dr Sun Si Miao introduces ten new massage techniques and systematized the treatment of childhood diseases using massage therapy.\n\nAD 581: China establishes a department of massage therapy within the Office of Imperial Physicians.\n\nMiddle-Ages:\nMedical knowledge, including that of massage, made its way from Rome to Persia in the Middle Ages. Many of Galen's manuscripts, for instance, were collected and translated by Hunayn ibn Ishaq in the 9th century. Later in the 11th century copies were translated back into Latin, and again in the 15th and 16th centuries, when they helped enlighten European scholars as to the achievements of the Ancient Greeks. This renewal of the Galenic tradition during the Renaissance played a very important part in the rise of modern science.\n\nOne of the greatest Persian medics was Avicenna, also known as Ibn Sina, who lived from 980AD to 1037AD. His works included a comprehensive collection and systematisation of the fragmentary and unorganised Greco-Roman medical literature that had been translated Arabic by that time, augmented by notes from his own experiences. One of his books, \"Al-Qānūn fī aṭ-Ṭibb\" (The Canon of Medicine) has been called the most famous single book in the history of medicine in both East and West. Avicenna excelled in the logical assessment of conditions and comparison of symptoms and took special note of analgesics and their proper use as well as other methods of relieving pain, including massage.\n\nAD 1150: Evidence of massage abortion, involving the application of pressure to the pregnant abdomen, can be found in one of the bas reliefs decorating the temple of Angkor Wat in Cambodia. It depicts a demon performing such an abortion upon a woman who has been sent to the underworld. This is the oldest known visual representation of abortion.\n\nAD 1776: Jean Joseph Marie Amiot, and Pierre-Martial Cibot, French missionaries in China translate summaries of Huangdi Neijing, including a list of medical plants, exercises and elaborate massage techniques, into the French language, thereby introducing Europe to the highly developed Chinese system of medicine, medical-gymnastics, and medical-massage.\n\nAD 1776 Pehr Henrik Ling, a Swedish physical therapist, and teacher of medical-gymnastics is born. Ling has often been erroneously credited for having invented \"Classic Massage\" aka \"Swedish Massage\", and has been called the \"Father of Massage\".\n\nAD 1779: Frenchman Pierre-Martial Cibot publishes ‘Notice du Cong-fou des Bonzes Tao-see' also known as \"The Cong-Fou of the Tao-Tse\", a French language summary of medical techniques used by Taoist priests. According to Joseph Needhan, Cibot's work \"was intended to present the physicists and physicians of Europe with a sketch of a system of medical gymnastics which they might like to adopt—or if they found it at fault they might be stimulated to invent something better. This work has long been regarded as of cardinal importance in the history of physiotherapy because it almost certainly influenced the Swedish founder of the modern phase of the art, Per Hendrik Ling. Cibot had studied at least one Chinese book, but also got much from a Christian neophyte who had become expert in the subject before his conversion.\"\n\nAD 1813 The Royal Gymnastic Central Institute for the training of gymnastic instructors was opened in Stockholm, Sweden, with Pehr Henrik Ling appointed as principal. Ling developed what he called the \"Swedish Movement Cure.\" Ling died in 1839, having previously named his pupils as the repositories of his teaching. Ling and his assistants left little proper written account of their methods.\nAD 1878: Dutch massage practitioner Johan Georg Mezger applies French terms to name five basic massage techniques, and coins the phrase \"Swedish massage system\". These techniques are still known by their French names (effleurage (long, gliding strokes), petrissage (lifting and kneading the muscles), friction (firm, deep, circular rubbing movements), tapotement (brisk tapping or percussive movements), and vibration (rapidly shaking or vibrating specific muscles)).\n\nMassage in China is an extremely popular therapy, the city of Shanghai alone playing host to over 1500 foot massage centers while there are more than 3000 in Shenzhen. It is one of the biggest service industries in China with workers in Shanghai numbering in the tens of thousands. The average rate of pay for a worker in the massage industry in China is over 10000 yuan per month, making it among the highest paid jobs in China’s service sector. China’s massage parlors are frequently linked to the sex industry and the government has taken a number of measures in recent times to curb prostitution and the spread of disease. In a nationwide crackdown known as the yellow sweep (\"Yellow\" in Mandarin Chinese refers to sexual activities or pornographic content), limitations on the design and operation of massage parlors have been placed, going so far as requiring identification from customers who visit massage establishments late at night and logging their visits with the local police.\n\nMassage started to become popular in the United States in the middle part of the 19th century and was introduced by two New York physicians, George and Charles Taylor, based on Per Henrik Ling's techniques developed in Sweden.\n\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s massage's influence decreased as a result of medical advancements of the time, while in the 1970s massage's influence grew once again with a notable rise among athletes. Until the 1970s, nurses used massage to reduce pain and aid sleep. The massage therapy industry is continuously increasing. In 2009, U.S. consumers spent between $4 and $6 billion on visits to massage therapists. In 2015, research estimates that massage therapy was a $12.1 billion industry.\n\nThe service of massage or \"physiological shampooing\" was advertised in The Times from as early as 1880. Adverts claimed it as a cure for obesity amongst other chronic ailments.\n\nMassage is popular in the United Kingdom and is gaining in popularity. There are many private practitioners working from their own premises as well as those who operate from commercial venues.\n\nMassage developed alongside athletics in both Ancient China and Ancient Greece. Taoist priests developed massage in concert with their Kung Fu gymnastic movements, while Ancient Greek Olympians used a specific type of trainer (\"aleiptes\") who would rub their muscles with oil. Pehr Ling's introduction to massage also came about directly as a result of his study of gymnastic movements.\n\nThe 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles was the first time that massage therapy was televised as it was being performed on the athletes. And then, during the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta massage therapy was finally offered as a core medical service to the US Olympic Team. Massage has been employed by businesses and organizations such as the U.S. Department of Justice, Boeing and Reebok. Notable athletes such as Michael Jordan and LeBron James have personal massage therapists that at times even travel with them.\n\nActive Release Techniques (ART) is a form of deep tissue manipulation patented by Dr. P. Michael Leahy in which specified techniques are used to release what are presumed to be soft tissue adhesions.\n\nThe ART curriculum also includes various nerve slide, or flossing, protocols and adjacent muscle interface work.\n\nAcupressure [from Latin acus \"needle\" (see acuity) + pressure (n.)] is a technique similar in principle to acupuncture. It is based on the concept of life energy which flows through \"meridians\" in the body. In treatment, physical pressure is applied to acupuncture points with the aim of clearing blockages in those meridians. Pressure may be applied by fingers, palm, elbow, toes or with various devices.\n\nSome medical studies have suggested that acupressure may be effective at helping manage nausea and vomiting, for helping lower back pain, tension headaches, stomach ache, among other things, although such studies have been found to have a high likelihood of bias.\n\nAquatic bodywork comprises a diverse set of massage and bodywork forms performed in water. This includes land-based forms performed in water (e.g., Aquatic Craniosacral Therapy, Aquatic Myofascial Release Therapy, etc.), as well as forms specific to warm water pools (e.g., Aquatic Integration, Dolphin Dance, Healing Dance, Jahara technique, WaterDance, Watsu).\n\nIn ashiatsu, the practitioner uses their feet to deliver treatment. The name comes from the Japanese, \"ashi\" for foot and \"atsu\" for pressure. This technique typically uses the heel, sesamoid, arch and/or whole plantar surface of foot, and offers large compression, tension and shear forces with less pressure than an elbow, and is ideal for large muscles, such as in thigh, or for long-duration upper trapezius compressions. Other manual therapy techniques using the feet to provide treatment include Keralite, Barefoot Lomi Lomi, Chavutti Thirumal.\n\nAyurvedic Massage known as \"Abhyangam\" in Sanskrit is one of the most common and important Ayurvedic therapies. According to the Ayurvedic Classics \"Abhayngam\" is an important dincharya (Daily Regimen) that is needed for maintaining a healthy lifestyle. The massage technique used during Ayurvedic Massage is known to stimulate the lymphatic system. The Ayurvedic Massage also stimulates production of lymphocytes which play a vital role in maintaining the immunity in human body. Thus regular Ayurvedic Massage can lead to better immunity and also help in body de-toxification. The other benefits of regular Ayurvedic Massage include pain relief, reduction of fatigue, prevention of ageing and bestowing longevity.\n\nKnown in Myanmar as Yoe Yar Nhake Nal Chin, meaning \"traditional massage\", Burmese massage has its ancient origins from Thai, Chinese and Indian medicine. Currently, Burmese massage also includes the use local natural ingredients such as Thanaka, which helps to promote smooth skin and prevents sunburn.\n\nBurmese massage is a full body massage technique that starts from head to toes, drawing on acupuncture, reflexology, and kneading. Signature massage strokes include acupressure using the elbows, quick gentle knocking of acupressure points, and slow kneading of tight muscles. The massage is aimed to improve blood circulation and quality of sleep, while at the same time help to promote better skin quality.\n\nBiomechanical stimulation (BMS) is a term generally used for localised biomechanical oscillation methods, whereby local muscle groups are stimulated directly or via the associated tendons by means of special hand held mechanical vibration devices. Biomechanical oscillation therapy and training is offered in a variety of areas such as competitive sports, fitness, rehabilitation, medicine, prevention, beauty, and used to improve performance of the muscles and to improve coordination and balance. It is often used in the Myofascial trigger point therapy concept to invoke reciprocal inhibition within the musculoskeletal system. Beneficial effects from this type of stimulation have been found to exist, the efficacy of the BMS Matrix therapy was proven in an independent study. carried out by TÜV-Süd which was commissioned by German health insurer \n\nBiodynamic massage was created by Gerda Boyesen as part of Biodynamic Psychotherapy. Practised as a stand-alone therapy, it is a combination of physical and energy work and also uses a stethoscope to hear the peristalsis.\n\nCraniosacral therapy (CST) is a gentle approach that releases tensions deep in the body by applying light touch to the skull, face, spine, and pelvis.\n\nA type of massage that is done in an erotic way via the use of massage techniques by a person on another person's erogenous zones to achieve or enhance their sexual excitation or arousal and to achieve orgasm.\n\nIt was also once used for medical purposes as well for the treatment of female hysteria and a disease called \"womb disease\".\n\nWhile various types of reflexology related massage styles focus on the feet, massage of (usually) the soles of the feet is often performed purely for relaxation or recreation. Studies also suggest that foot reflexology massage can evoke oxytocin release, reduce fatigue and promote better sleep.\n\n\"Lomilomi\" is the traditional massage of Hawaii. As an indigenous practice, it varies by island and by family. The word \"lomilomi\" also is used for massage in Samoa and East Futuna. In Samoa, it is also known as \"lolomi\" and \"milimili\". In East Futuna, it is also called \"milimili, fakasolosolo, amoamo, lusilusi, kinikini, fai’ua.\" The Māori call it \"romiromi\" and \"mirimiri\". In Tonga massage is \"fotofota, tolotolo,\" and \"amoamo.\" In Tahiti it is \"rumirumi.\" On Nanumea in Tuvalu, massage is known as \"popo\", pressure application is \"kukumi\", and heat application is \"tutu\". Massage has also been documented in Tikopia in the Solomon Islands, in Rarotonga and in Pukapuka in Western Samoa.\n\nManual lymphatic drainage is a technique used to gently work and stimulate the lymphatic system, to assist in reduction of localized swelling. The lymphatic system is a network of slow moving vessels in the body that carries cellular waste toward the heart, to be filtered and removed. Lymph also carries lymphocytes, and other immune system agents. Manual lymphatic drainage claims to improve waste removal and immune function.\n\nMedical Massage is a controversial term in the massage profession. Many use it to describe a specific technique. Others use it to describe a general category of massage and many methods such as deep tissue massage, myofascial release and triggerpoint therapy as well as osteopathic techniques, cranial-sacral techniques and many more can be used to work with various medical conditions.\n\nMassage used in the medical field includes decongestive therapy used for lymphedema which can be used in conjunction with the treatment of breast cancer. Light massage is also used in pain management and palliative care. Carotid sinus massage is used to diagnose carotid sinus syncope and is sometimes useful for differentiating supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) from ventricular tachycardia. It, like the valsalva maneuver, is a therapy for SVT. However, it is less effective than management of SVT with medications.\n\nA 2004 systematic review found single applications of massage therapy \"reduced state anxiety, blood pressure, and heart rate but not negative mood, immediate assessment of pain, and cortisol level\", while \"multiple applications reduced delayed assessment of pain\", and found improvements in anxiety and depression similar to effects of psychotherapy. A subsequent systematic review published in 2008 found that there is little evidence supporting the use of massage therapy for depression in high quality studies from randomized controlled trials.\n\nMyofascial release refers to the manual massage technique that claims to release adhered fascia and muscles with the goal of eliminating pain, increasing range of motion and equilibrioception. Myofascial release usually involves applying shear compression or tension in various directions, cross fiber friction or by skin rolling.\n\nReflexology also known as \"zone therapy\", is an alternative medicine involving application of pressure to the feet and hands with specific thumb, finger, and hand techniques without the use of oil or lotion. It is based on a pseudoscientific system of zones and reflex areas that purportedly reflect an image of the body on the feet and hands, with the premise that such work effects a physical change to the body.\n\nShiatsu (指圧) (\"shi\" meaning finger and \"atsu\" meaning pressure) is a type of alternative medicine consisting of the fingers and palm pressure, stretches, and other massage techniques. There is no convincing data available to suggest that shiatsu is an effective treatment for any medical condition.\n\nStructural Integration's aim is to unwind the strain patterns residing in the body's myofascial system, restoring it to its natural balance, alignment, length, and ease. This is accomplished by deep, slow, fascial and myofascial manipulation, coupled with movement re-education. Various brands of Structural Integration are Rolfing, Hellerwork, Guild for Structural Integration, Aston Patterning, Soma, and Kinesis Myofascial Integration.\n\nThe most widely recognized and commonly used category of massage is the Swedish massage. The Swedish massage techniques vary from light to vigorous. Swedish massage uses five styles of strokes. The five basic strokes are effleurage (sliding or gliding), petrissage (kneading), tapotement (rhythmic tapping), friction (cross fiber or with the fibers) and vibration/shaking. Swedish massage has shown to be helpful in reducing pain, joint stiffness, and improving function in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee over a period of eight weeks. The development of Swedish massage is often inaccurately credited to Per Henrik Ling, though the Dutch practitioner Johann Georg Mezger applied the French terms to name the basic strokes. The term \"Swedish\" massage is actually only recognized in English and Dutch speaking countries, and in Hungary. Elsewhere the style is referred to as \"classic massage\".\n\nClinical studies report that Swedish Massage can effectively reduce low back pain and the effectiveness can last for as long as 15 weeks. One study reported that Swedish Massage caused reduction in salivary cortisol indicating its role in management of stress and improvement in mood.\n\nKnown in Thailand as นวดแผนโบราณ (\"Nuat phaen boran,\" ), meaning \"ancient/traditional massage\", traditional Thai massage (Nuad Boran) is generally based on a combination of Indian and Chinese traditions of medicine.\n\nThai massage – or Nuat Thai – combines both physical and energetic aspects. It is a deep, full-body massage progressing from the feet up, and focusing on sen or energy lines throughout the body, with the aim of clearing blockages in these lines, and thus stimulating the flow of blood and lymph throughout the body. It draws on yoga, acupressure and reflexology.\n\nThai Massage is a popular massage therapy that is used for management of conditions such as musculoskeletal pain and fatigue. Thai Massage involves a number of stretching movements that improve body flexibility, joint movement and also improve blood circulation throughout the body. In one study scientists found that Thai Massage showed comparable efficacy as the painkiller ibuprofen in reduction of joint pain caused by osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee.\n\nMassage of Chinese Medicine is known as An Mo (按摩, pressing and rubbing) or Qigong Massage, and is the foundation of Japan's Anma. Categories include Pu Tong An Mo (general massage), Tui Na An Mo (pushing and grasping massage), Dian Xue An Mo (cavity pressing massage), and Qi An Mo (energy massage). Tui na (推拿) focuses on pushing, stretching, and kneading muscles, and Zhi Ya (指壓) focuses on pinching and pressing at acupressure points. Technique such as friction and vibration are used as well.\n\nSometimes confused with pressure point massage, this involves deactivating trigger points that may cause local pain or refer pain and other sensations, such as headaches, in other parts of the body. Manual pressure, vibration, injection, or other treatment is applied to these points to relieve myofascial pain. Trigger points were first discovered and mapped by Janet G. Travell (President Kennedy's physician) and David Simons. Trigger points have been photomicrographed and measured electrically and in 2007 a paper was presented showing images of Trigger Points using MRI. These points relate to dysfunction in the myoneural junction, also called neuromuscular junction (NMJ), in muscle, and therefore this technique is different from reflexology, acupressure and pressure point massage.\n\nTui na is a Chinese manual therapy technique that includes many different types of strokes, aimed to improve the flow of chi through the meridians.\n\nWatsu, developed by Harold Dull at Harbin Hot Springs, California, is a type of aquatic bodywork performed in near-body-temperature water, and characterized by continuous support by the practitioner and gentle movement, including rocking, stretching of limbs, and massage. The technique combines hydrotherapy floating and immersion with shiatsu and other massage techniques. Watsu is used as a form of aquatic therapy for deep relaxation and other therapeutic intent. Related forms include WaterDance, Healing Dance, and Jahara technique.\n\nSpecialized massage tables and chairs are used to position recipients during massages. A typical commercial massage table has an easily cleaned, heavily padded surface, and a horseshoe-shaped head support that allows the client to breathe easily while lying face down and can be stationary or portable, while home versions are often lighter weight or designed to fold away easily. An orthopedic pillow or bolster can be used to correct body positioning.\n\nErgonomic chairs serve a similar function as a massage table. Chairs may be either stationary or portable models. Massage chairs are easier to transport than massage tables, and recipients do not need to disrobe to receive a chair massage. Due to these two factors, chair massage is often performed in settings such as corporate offices, outdoor festivals, shopping malls, and other public locations.\n\nTemperature-controlled warm-water therapy pools are used to perform aquatic bodywork. For example, Watsu requires a warm-water therapy pool that is approximately chest deep (depending on height of the therapist) and temperature-controlled to about 35 °C (95 °F).\n\nA dry-water massage table uses jets of water to perform the massage of the client's muscles. These tables differ from a Vichy shower in that the client usually stays dry. Two common types are one in which the client lies on a waterbed-like mattress which contains warm water and jets of water and air bubbles and one in which the client lies on a foam pad and is covered by a plastic sheet and is then sprayed by jets of warm water, similar to a Vichy shower. The first type is sometimes seen available for use in malls and shopping centers for a small fee.\n\nA Vichy shower is a form of hydrotherapy which uses a series of shower nozzles which spray large quantities of water over the client while they lie in a shallow wet bed, similar to a massage table, but with drainage for the water. The nozzles may usually be adjusted for height, direction, and temperature to suit the client's needs.\n\nMany different types of massage cremes, lotions, gels, and oils are used to lubricate and moisturize the skin and reduce the friction between skin (hands of technician and client).\n\nInstrument assisted soft tissue massage uses stainless steel devises to manipulate tissue in a way that augments hands-on work. There are a number of brands including: graston, rockblade and hawkgrip.\n\nA body rock is a serpentine-shaped tool, usually carved out of stone. It is used to amplify the therapist's strength and focus pressure on certain areas. It can be used directly on the skin with a lubricant such as oil or corn starch or directly over clothing.\n\nBamboo and rosewood tools are also commonly implemented. They originate from practices in southeast Asia, Thailand, Cambodia, and Burma. Some of them may be heated, oiled, or wrapped in cloth.\n\nThe main professionals that provide therapeutic massage are massage therapists, athletic trainers, physical therapists and practitioners of many traditional Chinese and other eastern medicines. Massage practitioners work in a variety of medical settings and may travel to private residences or businesses. Contraindications to massage include deep vein thrombosis, bleeding disorders or taking blood thinners such as Warfarin, damaged blood vessels, weakened bones from cancer, osteoporosis, or fractures, and fever.\n\nThe US based National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine recognizes over eighty different massage techniques. The most cited reasons for introducing massage as therapy have been client demand and perceived clinical effectiveness.\n\nMany types of practices are associated with massage and include bodywork, manual therapy, energy medicine, neural mobilization and breathwork. Other names for massage and related practices include hands-on work, body/somatic therapy, and somatic movement education. Body-mind integration techniques stress self-awareness and movement over physical manipulations by a practitioner. Therapies related to movement awareness/education are closer to dance and movement therapies. Massage can also have connections with the New Age movement and alternative medicine as well as holistice philosophies of preventative medical care, as well as being used by mainstream medical practitioners.\n\nPeer-reviewed medical research has shown that the benefits of massage include pain relief, reduced trait anxiety and depression, and temporarily reduced blood pressure, heart rate, and state of anxiety. Additional testing has shown an immediate increase and expedited recovery periods for muscle performance. Theories behind what massage might do include enhanced skeletal muscle regrowth and remodeling, blocking nociception (gate control theory), activating the parasympathetic nervous system, which may stimulate the release of endorphins and serotonin, preventing fibrosis or scar tissue, increasing the flow of lymph, and improving sleep.\n\nMassage is hindered from reaching the gold standard of scientific research, which includes placebo-controlled and double blind clinical trials. Developing a \"sham\" manual therapy for massage would be difficult since even light touch massage could not be assumed to be completely devoid of effects on the subject. It would also be difficult to find a subject that would not notice that they were getting less of a massage, and it would be impossible to blind the therapist. Massage can employ randomized controlled trials, which are published in peer reviewed medical journals. This type of study could increase the credibility of the profession because it displays that purported therapeutic effects are reproducible.\n\n\n\nMassage has been shown to reduce neuromuscular excitability by measuring changes in the Hoffman's reflex (H-reflex) amplitude. A decrease in peak-to-peak H-reflex amplitude suggests a decrease in motoneuron excitability. Others explain, \"H-reflex is considered to be the electrical analogue of the stretch reflex...and the reduction\" is due to a decrease in spinal reflex excitability. Field (2007) confirms that the inhibitory effects are due to deep tissue receptors and not superficial cutaneous receptors, as there was no decrease in H-reflex when looking at light fingertip pressure massage. It has been noted that \"the receptors activated during massage are specific to the muscle being massaged\", as other muscles did not produce a decrease in H-reflex amplitude.\n\nProprioceptive studies are much more abundant than massage and proprioception combined, yet researchers are still trying to pinpoint the exact mechanisms and pathways involved to get a fuller understanding. Proprioception may be very helpful in rehabilitation, though this is a fairly unknown characteristic of proprioception, and \"current exercises aimed at 'improving proprioception' have not been demonstrated to achieve that goal\". Up until this point, very little has been studied looking into the effects of massage on proprioception. Some researchers believe \"documenting what happens under the skin, bioelectrically and biochemically, will be enabled by newer, non-invasive technology such as functional magnetic resonance imaging and continuous plasma sampling\".\n\nBecause the art and science of massage is a globally diverse phenomenon, different legal jurisdictions sometimes recognize and license individuals with titles, while other areas do not. Examples are:\n\nIn some jurisdictions, practicing without a license is a crime.\n\nIn regulated provinces massage therapists are known as Registered Massage Therapists, in Canada only four provinces regulate massage therapy: British Columbia, Ontario, Newfoundland and Labrador, and New Brunswick. Regulated provinces have, since 2012, established inter-jurisdiction competency standards. Quebec is not provincially regulated. Massage therapists may obtain a certification with one of various associations operating. There is the Professional Association of Specialized Massage Therapists of Quebec, also named Mon Réseau Plus, which represents 6,300 massage therapists (including orthotherapists, naturotherapists and others), the Quebec Federation of massage therapists (FMQ), and the Association québécoise des thérapeutes naturels; however, none of these are regulated by provincial law.\n\nCanadian educational institutions are undergoing a formal accreditation process through the Canadian Massage Therapy Council for Accreditation (CMTCA).\n\nMost types of massage, with the exception of some traditional Chinese medicine are not regulated in China. Although illegal in China, some of the smaller businesses are fronts for prostitution. J.K., anti-prostitution operation has established sting operations to combat the situation. These are called falangmei (发廊妹 \"hairdressing salon sisters\").\n\nFrance requires three years of study and two final exams in order to apply for a license.\n\nIn Germany massage is regulated by the government on a federal and national level. Only someone who has completed 3,200 hours of training (theoretical and practical) can use the professional title \"Masseur und Medizinischer Bademeister\" or Medical Masseur and Spa Therapist. This person can prolong his training depending on the length of professional experience to a Physiotherapist (1 year to 18 months additional training). The Masseur is trained in Classical Massage, Myofascial Massage, Exercise and Movement Therapy. During the training they will study: Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology, Gynecology, Podiatry, Psychiatry, Psychology, Surgery, and probably most importantly Dermiatry and Orthopedics. They are trained in Electrotherapy, and Hydrotherapy. Hydrotherapy includes: Kneipp, Wraps, underwater Massage, therapeutic washing, Sauna and Steambath. A small part of their training will include special forms of massage which are decided by the local college, for example: Foot reflex zone massage, Thai Massage etc. Finally a graduate is allowed to treat patients under the direction of a doctor. He is regulated by the professional body which regulates Physiotherapists. This includes the restriction on advertising and oath of confidentiality to clients.\n\nIn India, massage therapy is licensed by The Department of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (India) in March 1995. Massage therapy is based on Ayurveda, the ancient medicinal system that evolved around 600 BC. In ayurveda, massage is part of a set of holistic medicinal practices, contrary to the independent massage system popular in some other systems. In Siddha, Tamil traditional medicine from south India, massage is termed as \"Thokkanam\" and is classified in to nine types, each for specific variety of disease.\n\nsee also Anma\n\nIn Japan, shiatsu is regulated but oil massage and Thai massage are not. Although prostitution is illegal, prostitutes posing as massage therapists in fashion health shops and pink salons are fairly common in the larger cities.\n\nIn Myanmar, massage is unregulated. However, it is necessary to apply for a spa license with the government to operate a massage parlour in major cities such as Yangon. Blind and visually impaired people can become masseurs, but they are not issued licenses. There are a few professional spa training schools in Myanmar but these training centers are not accredited by the government.\n\nIn Mexico massage therapists, called \"sobadores\", combine massage using oil or lotion with a form of acupuncture and faith. \"Sobadores\" are used to relieve digestive system problems as well as knee and back pain. Many of these therapists work out of the back of a truck, with just a curtain for privacy. By learning additional holistic healer's skills in addition to massage, the practitioner may become a \"curandero\".\n\nIn many parts of Mexico prostitution is legal and prostitutes are allowed to sell sexual massage. These businesses are often confined to a specific area of the city, such as the Zona Norte in Tijuana.\n\nIn New Zealand, massage is unregulated. There are two levels of registration with Massage New Zealand, the professional body for massage therapists within New Zealand, although neither of these levels are government recognised. Registration at the Certified Massage Therapist level denotes competency in the practice of relaxation massage. Registration at the Remedial massage therapist denotes competency in the practice of remedial or orthopedic massage. Both levels of registration are defined by agreed minimum competencies and minimum hours.\n\nIn South Africa, massage is regulated, but enforcement is poor. The minimum legal requirement to be able to practice as a professional massage therapist is a 2-year diploma in Therapeutic Massage and registration with The Allied Health Professions Council of SA (AHPCSA). The 2 year qualification includes 240 credits, about 80 case studies, and about 100 hours community service.\n\nIn South Korea, blind and visually impaired people can become licensed masseurs.\n\nIn Thailand, Thai massage is officially listed as one of the branches of traditional Thai medicine, recognized and regulated by the government. It is considered to be a medical discipline in its own right and is used for the treatment of a wide variety of ailments and conditions. Massage schools, centers, therapists, and practitioners are increasingly regulated by the Ministries of Education and Public Health in Thailand.\n\nTo practice commercial massage or massage therapy in the UK, an ITEC or VTCT certificate must be obtained through training which includes Beauty and Spa Therapy, Hairdressing, Complementary Therapies, Sports & Fitness Training and Customer Service.\n\nTherapists with appropriate paperwork and insurance may join the Complementary and Natural Healthcare Council (CNHC), a voluntary, government regulated, professional register. Its key aim being to protect the public.\n\nIn addition there are many professional bodies which have a required minimum standard of education and hold relevant insurance policies including: the Federation of Holistic Therapists (FHT), the Complementary Therapists Association (CThA), and the Complementary Health Professionals (CHP). In contrast to the CNHC these bodies exist to support therapists rather than clients.\n\nAccording to research done by the American Massage Therapy Association, as of 2012 in the United States there are between 280,000 and 320,000 massage therapists and massage school students. As of 2011, there were more than 300 accredited massage schools and programs in the United States. Most states have licensing requirements that must be met before a practitioner can use the title \"massage therapist\", and some states and municipalities require a license to practice any form of massage. If a state does not have any massage laws then a practitioner need not apply for a license with the state. However, the practitioner will need to check whether any local or county laws cover massage therapy. Training programs in the US are typically 500–1000 hours in length, and can award a certificate, diploma, or degree depending on the particular school. There are around 1,300 programs training massage therapists in the country and study will often include anatomy and physiology, kinesiology, massage techniques, first aid and CPR, business, ethical and legal issues, and hands on practice along with continuing education requirements if regulated. The Commission on Massage Therapy Accreditation (COMTA) is one of the organizations that works with massage schools in the U.S. and currently (Aug 2012) there are approximately 300 schools that are accredited through this agency.\n\nForty-three states, the District of Columbia and five Canadian provinces currently offer some type of credential to professionals in the massage and bodywork field—usually licensure, certification or registration. Thirty-eight states and the District of Columbia require some type of licensing for massage therapists. In the US, 39 states use the National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork's certification program as a basis for granting licenses either by rule or statute. The National Board grants the designation Nationally Certified in Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork (NCTMB). There are two tests available and one can become certified through a portfolio process with equivalent training and experience. Between 10% and 20% of towns or counties regulate the profession. The National Certification offered by the NCBTMB does not mean that someone can practice massage in any state. These local regulations can range from prohibition on opposite sex massage, fingerprinting and venereal checks from a doctor, to prohibition on house calls because of concern regarding sale of sexual services.\n\nIn the US, licensure is the highest level of regulation and this restricts anyone without a license from practicing massage therapy or by calling themselves that protected title. Certification allows only those who meet certain educational criteria to use the protected title and registration only requires a listing of therapists who apply and meet an educational requirement. It is important to note that a massage therapist may be certified, but not licensed. Licensing requirements vary per state, and often require additional criteria be met in addition to attending an accredited massage therapy school and passing a required state specified exam (basically the certification requirements in many states). In the US, most certifications are locally based. However, as of March 2014, some states still do not require a license or a certification. However, this is thought to change eventually as more regulatory bodies governing the profession of massage are established in each state. Furthermore, some states allow license reciprocity where massage therapists who relocate can relatively easily obtain a license in their new state. Not all states provide this option.\n\nIn late 2007, the Federation of State Massage Therapy Boards launched a new certification exam titled the MBLEx. Currently, 40 states have accepted this certification exam, along with the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.\n\nIn 1997 there were an estimated 114 million visits to massage therapists in the US. Massage therapy is the most used type of alternative medicine in hospitals in the United States. Between July 2010 and July 2011 roughly 38 million adult Americans (18 percent) had a massage at least once.\n\nPeople state that they use massage because they believe that it relieves pain from musculoskeletal injuries and other causes of pain, reduces stress and enhances relaxation, rehabilitates sports injuries, decreases feelings of anxiety and depression, and increases general well being.\n\nIn a poll of 25–35-year-olds, 79% said they would like their health insurance plan to cover massage. In 2006 Duke University Health System opened up a center to integrate medical disciplines with CAM disciplines such as massage therapy and acupuncture. There were 15,500 spas in the United States in 2007, with about two-thirds of the visitors being women.\n\nThe number of visits rose from 91 million in 1999 to 136 million in 2003, generating a revenue that equals $11 billion. Job outlook for massage therapists is also projected to grow at 20% between 2010 and 2020 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or faster than average.\n\n"}
{"id": "13154027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13154027", "title": "Muhammad Ibrahim Joyo", "text": "Muhammad Ibrahim Joyo\n\nMuhammad Ibrahim Joyo (, ;\n13 August 1915 – 9 November 2017), born to Muhammad Khan Joyo, was a teacher, writer, scholar and Sindhi nationalist. He was born in the village of Abad near Laki, Kotri, Dadu, now in Jamshoro, Sindh, Pakistan. He was considered the living legend of Sindhi literature, who had written, translated and edited hundreds of books and brochures. He was affiliated with the Theosophical Society.\n\nOn Wednesday, August 13, 2015, Joyo entered centennial of his life.\n\nJoyo received his early education from local village. He got education from Luki and Sann. He then passed his matriculation from Sindh Madarsatul Islam in 1934. In 1938, Joyo passed B.A. from DG Sindh College; University of Bombay. He went to Bombay for TP education.\n\nMuhammad Ibrahim Joyo was appointed as a teacher in Sindh Madrasatul Islam in 1941. He wrote a book entitled Save Sindh, Save the Continent. This work angered the administration authorities, causing a conflict with Pir Ilahi Bux who ordered Joyo's removal from his job. However, he got a new job in Thatta Municipal High School.\n\nLater on, he was transferred to Hyderabad at training college. He was appointed as secretary of Sindhi Adabi Board in 1951. In 1961, Joyo retired from his job. Again, he was offered the same job a number of times. He was secretary of Sindhi Adabi Board till 1973. He was also involved with Sindh Textbook Board and served as chairman of the Sindhi Adabi Board.\n\nJoyo has translated and written a number of books. He had many translations of famous European books to his credit. He has been writing on Sindh and Sindhi for 70 years.\n\nIn 2013, he received a literary award from the Pakistan Academy of Letters. and also honorary degrees from the renowned universities.\n\nHe had written many story books and text books for school children, prefaces, debates and a lot of essays.\n\nJoyo was well-learned about \"History of Intellectual Development of Europe\" by J W Draper. He also read diverse writers such as Plutarch, Rousseau, Chekhov and Brecht.\n\nMuhammad Ibrahim Joyo died at the age of 102 at his elder son's residence in Hyderabad, Sindh, Pakistan on 9 November 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43003555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43003555", "title": "Peaceful Evolution theory", "text": "Peaceful Evolution theory\n\nThe \"Peaceful Evolution\" theory in international political thought refers to the alleged attempt to effect a political transformation of the Chinese socialist system by peaceful means, primarily by the United States. \n\nThe phrase was formulated by United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles during the Cold War in the 1950s chiefly in the context of the Soviet Union, but has not subsequently featured in official discussions of U.S. China policy. Chinese analyses of U.S. foreign policy, however, hold that it has constituted part of the theoretical foundation for the United States' relations with the People's Republic of China since then.\n\nAccording to the thesis, the United States maintains a strategy to infiltrate and subvert socialist countries, notably China, by spreading Western political ideas and lifestyles, inciting discontent, and encouraging groups to challenge the Party leadership. The hoped for aim of this process, according to Chinese readings of the alleged policy, is that the socialist system is transformed from within.\n\nThe Communist Party of China (CPC) has resisted the idea of Peaceful Evolution, beginning when the idea was first raised in the Mao era. The Party sees such a process as \"the biggest threat to its continuous rule\".\n\nSuccessive generations of CPC leaders have struggled against the Peaceful Evolution theory, including Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping, Hu Jintao, and Jiang Zemin. The theory is not currently part of the United States' official policy approach to the PRC, but communist military strategists consider it a cause of ongoing concern.\n\nThe precise locution \"peaceful evolution\" was a modification, by John Foster Dulles, of the doctrine originally outlined by George F. Kennan, who, in his Long Telegram of February 22, 1946, proposed that the socialist and capitalist blocs could reach a state of \"peaceful coexistence.\"\n\nThis was augmented by Dulles over a decade later, in speeches of 1957-58, to \"promoting peaceful evolution towards democracy.\"\n\nIn a speech, Dulles referred to \"the use of peaceful means\" to \"accelerate the evolution of government policies within the Sino-Soviet bloc\" in order to \"shorten the expected life span of communism.\" Western assistance and commerce were said to be two of the chief instruments of this plan to create a more liberal government in China.\n\nAccording to Bo Yibo (father of ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai) Mao Zedong heard about Dulles's remarks and took them seriously, ordering top Party cadres to study the speeches. Mao saw the idea of Peaceful Evolution as a serious policy threat, a \"much more deceptive tactic\" to corrupt China, and a war against the socialist powers by military means. Mao felt that the war was already being waged, with some effect, against the Soviet Union. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Chinese communists became more concerned about the strategy.\n\nThe term Peaceful Evolution has been used in the context of China and modernization outside the sphere of international relations. Scholars of China's media environment have used it to refer to the marketization of the press in China, where state control by the Communist Party lessens while the forces of commercialization take hold—though whether the media sphere in China has really evolved along such lines is disputed.\n\nWhile Peaceful Evolution ideas are often attributed to the foes of China, observers have suggested that some officials in the Chinese communist system—such as Wen Jiabao—support the process. These allegedly reform-oriented officials, however, are not considered part of the Communist Party's mainstream.\n\nScholars have argued that the typical Chinese uses of the term—as a conspiratorial plot—are too \"vague and all embracing; its meaning ranges from dark conspiracies involving the alleged plotters of the counter revolutionary rebellion [a reference to the Tiananmen Square massacre] to the broad spectrum of cultural, social, and economic exchanges with the outside world.\"\n\nThe overall utility of the term for Chinese analysts is that it sums up a range of the threats to the regime's political security, faced by the Party in the post-Cold War era. These threats are mostly connected with the United States, and are seen as part of the United States' own foreign policy after the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\nHowever, the term is now often used by Chinese scholars to condemn any foreign activities (including cultural, economic, social) that are seen as problematic for the Communist Party—not just those that are actually intended to undermine it. It is also used to dismiss out of hand United States criticism on the Chinese government's human rights record, on the theory that the West is simply attempting to undermine the Chinese people's respect for the Communist Party.\n\nChinese sensitivities to the idea of a Peaceful Evolution strategy by foreign powers were heightened by the post-Tiananmen crackdown climate of 1989, and the series of regime collapses in Eastern Europe later that year. Initially, Chinese communist leaders deemed the regime changes in the European countries as an \"internal affair.\" In their own meetings, however, they declared them a matter of foreign subversion, also known as peaceful evolution.\n\nWang Zhen sought to arm Chinese troops with the ideological shield to guard against Western idea—while on a military inspection tour of Xinjiang he said \"unswervingly follow the socialist road... the road may be winding and the struggle fierce... In our opposition to peaceful evolution, a key tenet is to fortify the brains of the entire party with Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought.\" Jiang Zemin, the Party leader after June 4, said that peaceful evolution posed a \"major danger\" for communist countries.\n\nA three-part article was published in the \"People's Daily\" after the massacre titled \"On Peaceful Evolution.\" It argued that the collapse of communist regimes in Europe were a result of \"bourgeois liberalization,\" which refers to Peaceful Evolution, and that the democracy protests in China had also been an attempt to \"negate party leadership by political pluralism, and negate public ownership in the economy by privatization.\" The CPC's crackdown was able to \"crush the peaceful evolution strategy of the imperialists,\" according to scholar Jialin Zhang.\n\nAmong state-affiliated intellectuals and strategists in the PRC, the term and theory of Peaceful Evolution is a threat and an attempt to undermine the Communist Party's rule. The hard line scholar Huo Shiliang of the Chinese Academy of Social Science's says that after Dulles, the Americans' policy of attempting to peaceful transform China has simply accelerated:\n\nBefore June 4 China considered the United States as a trustworthy and friendly country, but since June 4 the United States has become the main source of instability in China. Peaceful evolution is the main threat to China's stability today. The ideological struggle will be the most important factor in future Sino-American relations. The U.S. will again become the major threat to China, but not a military one. The Taiwan problem will remain important. but the ideological struggle—particularly peaceful evolution—will be primary.\n\nThe theory of Peaceful Evolution is a key part of Chinese official assessments of the collapse of the Soviet Union. In bracing themselves against the Americans' \"soft power\" approaches, and attempts to undermine the regime, they have advocated a series of countermeasures. According to Li Jingjie, the director of the former Soviet-Eastern Europe Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, there are eight lessons that China must draw from the Soviet collapse, due in part to the infiltration of Peaceful Evolution:\n\n"}
{"id": "1401932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1401932", "title": "Phan Bội Châu", "text": "Phan Bội Châu\n\nPhan Bội Châu (; 26 December 1867 – 29 October 1940) was a pioneer of Vietnamese 20th century nationalism. In 1903, he formed a revolutionary organization called the “Reformation Society” (\"Duy Tân hội\"). From 1905 to 1908, he lived in Japan where he wrote political tracts calling for the independence of Vietnam from French colonial rule. After being forced to leave Japan, he moved to China where he was influenced by Sun Yat-sen. He formed a new group called the “Vietnamese Restoration League” (\"Việt Nam Quang Phục Hội\"), modeled after Sun Yat-sen's republican party. In 1925, French agents seized him in Shanghai. He was convicted of treason and spent the rest of his life under house arrest in Huế.\n\nDuring his career, Phan used several pen names, including Sào Nam (巢南), Thị Hán (是漢), Độc Kinh Tử, Việt Điểu, and Hàn Mãn Tử.\n\nPhan was born as Phan Văn San (潘文珊) in the village of Dan Nhiem, Nam Hoa commune, Nam Đàn District of the northern central province of Nghệ An. His father, Phan Văn Phổ, descended from a poor family of scholars, who had always excelled academically. He spent his first three years in Sa Nam, his mother's village, before the family moved to another village, Đan Nhiễm, his father's home village, also in Nam Đàn District. Until Phan was five, his father was typically away from home, teaching in other villages, so his mother raised him and taught him to recite passages from the \"Classic of Poetry\", from which he absorbed Confucian ethics and virtues.\n\nWhen Phan was five, his father returned home and he began attending his father's classes, where he studied the Chinese classics, such as the \"Three Character Classic\", which took him just three days to memorize. As a result of his ability to learn quickly, his father decided to move him to further Confucian texts, such as the \"Analects\", which he practiced on banana leaves. In his autobiography, Phan admitted he did not understand the meaning of the text in great detail at the time, but by age six, he was skillful enough to write a variant of the \"Analects\" that parodied his classmates, which earned him a caning from his father.\n\nAt the time, the central region of Vietnam where the family lived was still under the sovereignty of Emperor Tự Đức, but the southern part of the country had gradually been colonised in the 1860s and turned into the colony of Cochinchina. In 1874, an attack on Hanoi forced Tự Đức to sign a treaty to open up the Red River for French trade. In Nam Đàn District, a \"Binh Tây\" (\"Pacify the French\") movement sprung among the local scholar-gentry, and Phan responded at the age of seven by playing \"Binh Tây\" with his classmates, using “guns” made of bamboo tubes and lychee bullets. The unrest was enough to prompt the imperial court to bring in troops to quell the opposition to Huế's deal with the French. Phan's family was not affected by the crackdown, but the movement had a deep impact on him. Later in life, he noted that as a youth, “I was endowed with a fiery spirit. From the days when I was a small child … every time I read the stories of those in the past who were ready to die for the righteous cause, tears would come running from my eyes, soaking the books.”\n\nWhen Phan was thirteen, his father sent him to another teacher with a better reputation. Since the family lacked the money for Phan to travel far away, he studied with a local \"cử nhân\" graduate who was able to borrow a range of books from wealthier families in the area. In 1883, the French finished the colonization of Vietnam by conquering the northern part of Vietnam, and the country was incorporated into French Indochina. Phan drafted an appeal for \"putting down the French and retrieving the North\" (\"Binh Tây thu Bắc\"). He posted the anonymous appeal calling for the formation of local resistance units at intervals along the main road, but there were no responses and the proclamations were soon torn down. Phan realized no one would listen to a person without the social status ensured by passing mandarin examinations.\n\nIn 1884, his mother died and his aging father was growing weaker, forcing Phan to help support the family. In 1885, the Cần Vương movement began its uprising against French rule, hoping to install the boy Emperor Hàm Nghi as the ruler of an independent Vietnam by expelling colonial forces. The imperial entourage fled the palace in Huế and attempted to start the uprising from a military base in Nghệ An. The scholar gentry of the province rose up, and Phan attempted to rally approximately 60 classmates who were prospective examination candidates to join in the uprising. Phan called his new unit the \"Army of Loyalist Examination Candidates\" (\"Si tu Can Vuong Doi\") and convinced an older \"cử nhân\" graduate to act as its commander. They had just begun to collect money and raw materials to make \"ad hoc\" weapons when a French patrol attacked the village and scattered the students. Phan's father forced him to seek out the commander to have the membership list destroyed to avoid French retributions.\n\nWith his father growing weaker, Phan decided to keep a low profile to avoid trouble with the French colonials so that he could support his family. He did so by teaching and writing, while still continually preparing for examinations. During this time, he quietly acquired books on military strategy by the likes of Sun Tzu and Đào Duy Từ, the military strategist of the Nguyễn lords who stopped the Trịnh lords with a defensive wall, and Trần Hưng Đạo, the military commander of the Trần Dynasty who repelled Mongol invasions of Vietnam in the 13th century. Phan cultivated a small number of his students whom he identified as having abundant pro-independence sentiments. He enthusiastically received visits from Cần Vương visitors and passed on their tales to his students, particularly those concerning Phan Đình Phùng, who led the Cần Vương effort.\n\nPhan failed the regional mandarin exams for a number of years in a row. By the time he was 30, he traveled to Huế to teach, to \"improve his contacts\" and to obtain some special tutoring in preparation for his next exam attempt. In Huế, Phan quickly made friends with similar political values and beliefs. One friend, Nguyễn Thượng Hiền, introduced him to the unpublished writings of Nguyễn Lộ Trạch, a Vietnamese activist/reformist. This was Phan's first encounter with the Self-Strengthening Movement in China and other major political and military reforms made around the world. After returning to Nghệ An in 1900, Phan passed the regional mandarin exams with the highest possible honors.\n\nAt the age of 22, Phan married Thái Thị Huyên, who was from the same village. The union had long been arranged by their parents, who were acquaintances. Phan was the only son in the family, and his wife initially did not bear him any children, so she arranged for him to be married to a second wife so that the family line could be continued. This practice was not uncommon in Confucian families of the time. His second wife bore him a son and daughter, and his first wife later bore him another son.\n\nWhen Phan passed the regional examinations in 1900, he was eligible to become a public servant. However, Phan had no intention of pursuing such a career and only wanted the qualification to increase his \"gravitas\" in rallying anti-colonial action. With his father dying in the same year, Phan had no more family obligations, and decided to travel abroad to pursue his revolutionary activities. Phan served divorce papers on his wife so she would avoid retribution from colonial authorities for his activities.\n\nPhan met with his wife only once more following the divorce: when he was pardoned and released from Hỏa Lò Prison more than two decades later. He was then sent to a loose form of house arrest in Huế and the train stopped at Vinh, Nghệ An, Vietnam. On the way, his wife said, “I am very happy. From now on, my only wish is that you will hold to your initial aspiration. Do whatever you like, and do not worry about your wife and children.” While Phan was living out his final years, his children and their families came to visit him, but never his wife. When she died, she instructed her children not to tell Phan so as to not distract him.\n\nPhan spent the first five years of the 20th century living in Huế and traveling the country. Phan drew up a three-step plan to get the French out of Vietnam. First, he would need to organize remnants of the Cần Vương movement and other sympathizers of the cause. Second, he would need to attain support from the Vietnamese imperial family and the bureaucracy, many of whom had already come to grips with French colonial rule. Finally, he would need to obtain foreign aid, from Chinese or Japanese revolutionaries, to finance the revolution.\n\nIt was only later that Phan realized that obtaining independence for Vietnam would be much more difficult than expected. He became familiar with the works of famed European thinkers, such as Voltaire, Rousseau and Darwin. Phan was also influenced by the writings of such Chinese Confucianists as Liang Qichao and Kang Youwei. The European and Chinese works, which had only entered Vietnamese circles a few years later, opened Phan's mind to more expansive thought regarding the struggle for freedom of his people. Liang's \"Hsin-min ts'ung-pao\" (\"The Renovation of the People\") influenced Phan's revolutionary ideas and beliefs, as it criticized the Chinese government and proclaimed that the Chinese people's consciousness needed to be awakened to further the country into the modern era.\n\nKang, one of the major thinkers that influenced Phan, took the idea of Social Darwinism and discussed the survival of the fittest concept as it applied to nations and ethnic groups. He described the dire outcomes that would face China if the country did not embark on a series of reforms, similar to those faced by the Ottoman Empire and colonial India. He believed that reforms made by Peter the Great and Emperor Meiji were excellent examples of the political restructuring that needed to take place to save China. From Kang's work, Phan realized why Emperor Tự Đức's decision to ignore Nguyễn Trường Tộ's proposed modernization reforms had led to the downfall of Vietnam and had allowed for French rule in Vietnam.\n\nPhan continued to seek support from the scholar-gentry and the bureaucracy serving the French, before shifting his focus to obtaining support from members of the imperial family. Phan had moved to Huế, claiming that he was preparing for the metropolitan imperial examinations, but in actuality, he planned on drumming up support among the various factions of royal family. Phan traveled to Quảng Nam to meet with Nguyễn Thành, a contemporary anti-colonial revolutionary activist who was involved in the Cần Vương movement. Thành suggested that a royal associate of his, Tôn Thất Toại, could help lead the revolution. Phan rejected the offer, but took Thành's advice to seek support from direct descendants of Emperor Gia Long, the founder of the Nguyễn Dynasty. These direct descendants were still highly respected by wealthy Mekong Delta landowners who Phan hoped would raise the bulk of the money needed to finance the revolution.\n\nBy the spring of 1903, Phan had found a perfect candidate to lead the revolution: Prince Cường Để, a direct descendant of Gia Long's eldest son, Canh. Để's descendants had long been dissociated from the emperor and his family since the early 19th century. Để's father was personally sought by Phan Đình Phùng to take Hàm Nghi's place and lead a popular revolt against the French in the 1880s, but he declined. By 1894, he suggested that his son, then 12 years old, could be the new face of the revolution. This plan was never executed as Phung died in January 1896. Cường Để changed the course of his life and began studying history, economics and geography and thought admiringly of the heroic achievements of Trần Hưng Đạo, Zhuge Liang, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, Saigō Takamori, Cavour, Otto von Bismarck, George Washington, and Abraham Lincoln.\n\nAfter getting Cường Để to support the revolutionary cause, Phan wrote his first significant work, \"Luu Cau Huyet Le Tan Thu\" (\"Letter from the Ryukyus Written in Tears of Blood\"). He argued that independence in Vietnam could only be achieved \"through a transformation and revitalization of national character\". The book was moderately successful amongst the Vietnamese populaces and received attention from other nationalists like Phan Chu Trinh. However, many mandarins were reluctant to publicly support Phan's ideas, and as a result, he came to realize that he couldn't rely on the bureaucratic elite to support his cause.\n\nPhan created the Việt Nam Duy Tân Hội (Vietnam Modernization Association) in 1904; Cường Để led the association as its president, while Phan served as general secretary. Despite its growing member base, Duy Tân Hội struggled financially. Phan had hoped to obtain financial assistance from China, but the country was forced to abandon its suzerain relationship with Vietnam after the 1884–85 Sino-French War. Phan and Cường Để decided to seek aid from Japan, which had recently won a war against Russia, had successfully imposed reforms and seemed more inclined to help out revolutionaries in a nearby Asian country. Phan was selected to visit Japan to secure the funds needed to sustain Duy Tân Hội. Phan did not speak Japanese and had no contacts in Japan, so he sought help from Liang Qichao, who was living in Japan since being exiled years earlier.\n\nLiang introduced Phan to many prominent politicians, including Ōkuma Shigenobu, a well-liked statesman who had previously served as Prime Minister of Japan for a few months in 1898. Phan asked Okuma for financial assistance to fund the activities of Vietnamese revolutionaries. In his letter to Okuma, Phan stated that Japan should be obligated to help Vietnam since both countries were of the \"same race, same culture, and same continent\". Japan could also promote its interests in Vietnam and prevent French and Russian expansion into China. However, Phan was unsuccessful in procuring aid from the Japanese. The Japanese government did not want to damage its own relationship with France, while opposition party members promised financial aid to Vietnamese students wishing to study in Japan, but also advised Phan not to start a revolutionary movement until Japan was more willing to help the cause.\n\nIn Guangxi and Guangdong, the Vietnamese revolutionaries arranged alliances with the Kuomintang by marrying Vietnamese women to Chinese officers. Their children were at an advantage since they could speak both languages and they worked as agents for the revolutionaries and spread revolutionary ideologies across borders. This intermarriage between Chinese and Vietnamese was viewed with alarm by the French. Phan's revolutionary network practiced this extensively; additionally, Chinese merchants also married Vietnamese women, and provided funds and help.\n\nFrustrated by the Japanese response, Phan turned to Liang, who explained to Phan it was naïve to expect financial assistance from the Japanese. The Vietnamese people would have to look only within Vietnam for support and financial backing. Liang told Phan that he could best serve the cause by writing and distributing pamphlets advocating for the revolution to rally support from the Vietnamese and others abroad. Phan took Liang's advice very seriously and immediately began to publish materials to obtain support for the revolutionary cause.\n\nThese writings, perhaps the most widely recognized of Phan's works, include: \"Viet Nam Vong Quoc Su\" (\"History of the Loss of Vietnam\"), \"Tan Viet Nam\" (\"New Vietnam\"), \"Ai Viet Dieu Dien\" (\"A Lament for Vietnam and Yunnan\"), \"Hai Ngoai Huyet Thu\" (\"Letter from Abroad Written in Blood\"), \"Viet Nam Quoc Su Khao\" (\"An Outline History of Vietnam\"), and \"Ai Viet Dieu Dien\" (\"A Lament for Vietnam and Yunnan\"). All were initially written in Chinese and then translated to Vietnamese, upon which they were smuggled into Vietnam. These works, most notably \"Viet Nam Vong Quoc Su\", were critical in intensifying the nationalist fervor in the country.\n\nLiang published Phan's 1905 work \"Việt Nam vong quốc sử\" (History of the Loss of Vietnam) and intended to distribute it in China and abroad, but also to smuggle it into Vietnam. Phan wanted to rally people to support the cause for Vietnamese independence; the work is regarded as one of the most important books in the history of Vietnam's anticolonialism movement. The book helped revive the name \"Vietnam\", which was not commonly used at the time.\n\nThe book is noted for its negative assessment of the response of the Nguyễn Dynasty in the 19th century to the colonial challenges facing Vietnam and the failure to modernize, with the Nguyễn instead turning to ultra-orthodox conservative Confucianism. The book presents strident and emotive memorials to the key figures of the Can Vuong movement of the late 1880s and early 1890s, led by mandarins such as Tôn Thất Thuyết and Phan Đình Phùng, who led guerrillas against the French. The Cần Vương attempted to overthrow the French rule and establish the boy emperor Hàm Nghi as the ruler of an independent Vietnam. The book also analyzes the French social and economic policies in Vietnam, which it regards as oppression. In the book, Phan argues for the establishment of a nationwide pro-independence front with seven factions or interested groups with a specific motivation to fight the French colonial authorities.\n\nThe book is written in a style that differed from the prevailing writing technique and structure of the scholar gentry of the time. The scholar gentry under the Confucian education system fostered by the classical imperial examinations were molded by their study and memorization of classical Chinese poetry and literature. As such, the literary style tended to be poetic, indirect and metaphorical, relying on allusions and imagery to depict an idea. Phan eschewed this traditional style to write in a direct, ordinary prose style, especially in his analytical and argumentative sections. The book precipitated a new style of writing among scholar gentry revolutionaries, who later tended to use a more direct style.\n\nThe book created a reaction in China, sparking follow-up essays by Chinese writers who were taken aback by the Phan's description of Vietnamese life under French colonial rule. It generated gloomy pieces by Chinese writers who predicted that their nation would suffer a similar fate if they failed to modernize. One such Chinese response later became a teaching text at the Tonkin Free School in Hanoi, a school run by Phan's contemporaries to promote the independence movement. However, Phan did not receive much of a reaction in terms of aid towards his independence efforts, since the book made Chinese readers worry about their own future. The book had a much better reception among Vietnamese readers. Phan and a colleague, Đặng Tử Kính, left Japan for the first time in August 1905, carrying 50 copies of the book that were to distributed throughout Vietnam, of which further copies were made inside the country. Phan's direct writing style, without the use of allegories, upset traditionalists but made the book more accessible to literate people who had not been trained in classical literature.\n\nIn 1905, the Vietnam Modernization Association agreed to send Phan to Japan to get Japanese military assistance or weapons. The \"Duy Tan Hoi\" had turned more radical after Japan's victory over Russia led to the popular belief that Japan would soon turn its attention to ridding Asia of the western imperialist powers in general. However, Phan soon realised that Japanese military aid would not be possible, and turned his attention to using Japan as a base to train and educate young Vietnamese students, by starting the \"Dong Du\" (Visit the East) Society. The number of Vietnamese students sent to Japan for training peaked at 200 in 1908. However, due to pressure from the French government, especially after the signing of the Franco-Japanese Treaty of 1907, Japan declared Phan to be persona non grata and expelled him in 1909.\n\nIn 1909, after being deported from Japan, Phan went to Hong Kong with Cường Để. There, he made plans to raise money and bring to Thailand the Vietnamese students who had studied in Japan, but had now been dispersed. He had previously had the foresight to establish a base in Thailand.\n\nBut instead he received news of an armed uprising in Vietnam, led by Hoang Ha Tam. So he assembled his comrades in Hong Kong, and sent two people to Japan to buy 500 of the Arisaka Type 30 rifles. But after buying the weapons to support the uprising with, they could not afford to hire a ship to smuggle the rifles into Vietnam. So, in July, Phan went to Thailand to ask their government to help with the smuggling. The foreign minister refused, since it would be a major diplomatic incident with France if it leaked out. So he had to return to Hong Kong and wait for the money needed for smuggling. The money never arrived, and news arrived that his fundraising organiser was dead, and that the uprising was going badly. Phan donated 480 of the rifles to the forces of Sun Yat-sen. He then tried to smuggle the remaining 20 of the rifles via Thailand, disguised as first-class luggage. This attempt failed. He spent the first half of 1910 begging on the street, selling his books, and spending all his money getting drunk at the pub. This went on until he met an elderly woman, Phan Po-Lin, who took the entire movement into her house. Funds arrived and he planned to move to Thailand. He arrived in Thailand in November 1910, and all his students and followers who could, took up farming there. \n\nThe Wuchang Uprising occurred in China on 10 October 1911. It quickly spread and declared itself the Republic of China. This greatly inspired Phan, since he had many friends among the Chinese revolutionaries. Phan thought this new regime would fix all that was wrong with the old China, and unite with Japan to defeat the Europeans and build a strong Asia. Leaving the farm in the hands of his comrades, he went to China to visit his friends there. \n\nThe old Vietnam Modernization Association had become worthless, with its members scattered. A new organization needed to be formed, with a new agenda inspired by the Chinese revolution. A large meeting was held in late March 1912. They agreed to form a new group, the Vietnam Restoration League. Cường Để was made president and chairman; Phan was vice-president.\n\nPeople voted to campaign for democracy instead of a monarchy, despite strong objections of people from southern Vietnam. The organization's sole purpose was to kick out the French and establish a democratic republic. However they had no funds and had great difficulty getting revolutionary leaflets into Vietnam. Also, the new Chinese government was too busy and would not help the movement with anything other than allowing Vietnamese comrades into its education and training system. The Vietnam Restoration League came up with a proposed flag design. Previously, Vietnam never had a flag, only banners to represent royalty. Their flag idea had 5 five-pointed stars, arranged in a square with a star in the middle. It symbolized the five regions of Vietnam. The national flag had red stars on a yellow background, and the military flag had a red background with white stars. The yellow represented their race, the red represented fire which represented their location to the south of China (see I Ching), and the white represented the metal of their weapons. They also created a book on military strategy and regulations for their army. They even printed their own currency, which they agreed to honour when, or rather \"if\", they attained power. If they won they could easily pay people back, and if they lost it wouldn't cost them anything. The \"money\" was printed in a similar way to the Chinese paper notes. \n\nThey also formed an organisation called the Association for the Revitalization of China. It was dedicated to getting support from China for independence movements in smaller Asian countries, starting with Vietnam of course. Using a medical centre as a front, and a fancy office they managed to create the false impression that they were a huge successful organisation. They got hundreds of people to join, and sold a huge amount of their made-up currency. They changed some of the leadership positions of the \"Vietnam Restoration League\" to allow the Chinese to take part. However, they could not get enough money to buy more weapons until they had proved themselves with a military attack of some sort. Everyone said they needed something big and explosive because the people of Vietnam were short on patience. So Phan sent five people with a few grenades to the three regions of Vietnam. The grenades they sent to the North were used on a minor target, the governor of Thái Bình province, two officers and a French restaurateur. They were meant to be used at the mandarin examinations when all the officials would be gathered. Those they sent to the centre via Thailand did not make it to Vietnam at the time, and they had to throw their grenades away. Those that they sent to the south were used on some Vietnamese. The attacks in the North enraged the French, and they demanded Phan be arrested, but the Chinese government refused. But the value of Phan's special currency dropped dramatically after the failure. \n\nThey had no money, so they decided to trick a pharmaceutical company in Japan into providing lots of expensive drugs for them on credit. They then closed down their medical centre and didn't pay their debt. But their membership slowly dwindled, and the difficulty of getting into Vietnam increased. And changes in the government of their Chinese province made things difficult. And they had to close their office and send their comrades away.\n\nBy 1914, Phan was arrested by the Chinese authorities and thrown in jail on suspicion of helping rival Chinese authorities. The intervention of the Chinese minister for the army, stopped them from killing him or handing him over to the French. But he was kept in prison for almost four years until 1917. In prison he wrote many biographies, including his own, and other books. World War I began shortly thereafter. The country remained a member of the French Empire, and many Vietnamese fought in World War I (see Vietnamese Expeditionary Force). \n\nSome 50,000 Vietnamese troops and 50,000 Vietnamese workers were sent to Europe to fight for France in the war, and thousands lost their lives at Somme and Picardy, near the Belgian coast and many more in Middle East. At the time it was referred to Vietnam's \"Baptism of Fire\". More than 30,000 Vietnamese died during the conflict and 60,000 were wounded. The Vietnamese endured additional heavy taxes to help pay for France's war efforts. Numerous anti-colonial revolts occurred in Vietnam during the war, all easily suppressed by the French. \n\nIn May 1916, the sixteen-year-old king, Duy Tân, escaped from his palace in order to take part in an uprising of Vietnamese troops organized by Thái Phiên and Trần Cao Vân. The French were informed of the plan and the leaders arrested and executed. Duy Tân was deposed and exiled to Réunion Island in the Indian Ocean. One of the most effective uprisings during this period was in the northern Vietnamese province of Thái Nguyên. Some 300 Vietnamese soldiers revolted and released 200 political prisoners, whom, in addition to several hundred local people, they armed. The rebels held the town of Thái Nguyên for several days, hoping for help from Chinese nationalists. None arrived and the French retook the town and hunted down most of the rebels. \n\nWhile he was in prison, he organised some of his comrades to meet with the German government in Thailand. They donated a large amount of money and promised more if a spectacular action could be done in Vietnam against the French. The comrades attempted an action but failed completely, wasting all the money. After his release, Phan travelled to Beijing and to Japan, and then to various parts of China trying to get back into Vietnam. When he eventually got to the border of Yunnan Province and Vietnam, he discovered that World War I was over and his plans of using it to help defeat the French were hopeless. Phan wandered around China for years after this without accomplishing anything significant. He pondered collaborating with the French, who were now ruled by the Socialist Party (France), and he wrote a booklet about why collaboration with the French would be good. He later changed his mind and blamed this thinking on Phan Ba Ngoc, who was assassinated by one of Phan's supporters for being a collaborator with the French. \n\nLiterary Chinese was the language used to communicate in Japan and China by Phan Bội Châu.\n\nAt the start of 1921, Phan studied Socialism and the Soviet Union in the hope of gaining assistance from the Soviet Union or socialist groups. He translated a book called \"An Account of the Russian Revolution\", by Fuse Katsuji into Chinese. He then went to Beijing to meet with Soviet representatives, Grigori Voitinsky and Lap. Lap said that the Soviet Union would educate, train and pay for, any Vietnamese students Phan wanted to send, provided they would engage in social revolution and teach socialism in Vietnam afterwards. Lap was keen to hear more about the political situation in Vietnam, since Phan was the first Vietnamese revolutionary to come into contact with them. Lap requested Phan write a book in English about the situation, but Phan was unable to do so as he spoke no English. Phan wrote of the Russians: \"One thing I cannot forget is how dignified, courteous, and sincere the Russians appeared to me. Their language and their expression was at times calm, at times vigorous.\" \n\nIn late 1924, Hồ Chí Minh returned from Moscow to Canton. Hồ and Phan corresponded several times about the program of a new organisation Phan was trying to start up and other such things. Phan had been a friend of Hồ's father and had known Hồ when he was a child. They were interested in meeting each other again, but never got a chance. \n\nIn 1925, Phan arrived in Shanghai on what he thought was a short trip on behalf of his movement. He was to meet with Ho Chi Minh, who at that time used the name, Ly Thuy, one of Ho's many aliases. Ho had invited Phan to come to Canton to discuss matters of common interest. Ho was in Canton at the Soviet Embassy, purportedly as a Soviet citizen working as an secretary, translator and interpreter. In exchange for money, Ho informed the French police of Phan's imminent arrival. Phan was arrested by French agents and transported back to Hanoi. This is disputed by Sophie Quinn-Judge and Duncan McCargo, who point out that this is a legend made up by anti-communist authors, considering that Lam Duc Thu's reports showed that the French already had all the information they needed from their own spies. Also according to Quinn-Judge and McCargo, Ho was rapidly gaining adherence from the \"best elements\" of Vietnamese Quoc Dan Dang to his idea, thus having no motivation to eliminate Phan, and that Phan considered Ho more like a successor, rather than a competitor, thus Ho had plenty reasons to support such a respected activist as a figurehead for his movement.\n\nPhan himself wrote about this event:\n\nWhen he was transported back to Hanoi, he was held in Hỏa Lò Prison. At first, the French authorities did not release his real name, in order to avoid public disturbances. But it quickly leaked out who he was. A criminal trial followed, with all the charges going back to 1913 when he had been sentenced to death in absentia. The charges included incitement to murder and supplying an offensive weapon used to commit murder in two incidents, which had resulted in the deaths of a Vietnamese governor on 12 April 1913 and of two French majors on 28 April 1913. The court sentenced Phan to penal servitude for life. He was released from prison on 24 December 1925 by Governor General Alexandre Varenne, in response to huge public protests. He was placed under house arrest in a house in Huế where Nguyễn Bá Trác lived. Trác was a former member of the Đông-Du movement who had become an active collaborator with the French. Guards kept the house under surveillance, so visits by his admirers were a bit inhibited. More public protests against his house arrest caused the authorities to allow him to move to a house which had been organised by his supporters. It was a thatched house divided into three sections and had a medium-sized garden. Here he was able to meet his supporters, his children and his grandchildren. In 1926, when Phan Chu Trinh died, Phan presided over a memorial service for him in Huế. In 1931, he also gave a speech at a rally celebrating the anniversary of the Yen Bai Uprising, during which Lý Tự Trọng shot and killed French secret police officials who might have been there to assassinate him. Phan spent his last fifteen years living a quiet life in Huế. He would often relax by taking boat trips on the Sông Hương (Perfume River). He died on 29 October 1940, about a month after Japan invaded northern Vietnam. Most cities in Vietnam have named major streets after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25189249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25189249", "title": "Pio Colonnello", "text": "Pio Colonnello\n\nPio Colonnello (born February 12, 1951 in Benevento) is an Italian philosopher and university professor.\n\nPio Colonnello has three degrees with honours in philosophy, in law and in humanities. In the academic year 1973/74 he won a scholarship at the \"Istituto Italiano per gli Studi Storici\", founded by Benedetto Croce, in Naples. Already a teacher in the Secondary School, from 1980 he has worked as researcher with tenure at the Department of Philosophy \"A. Aliotta\" of the University of Naples \"Federico II\". From 2001, he works as Professor of Theoretical Philosophy at the Faculty of Humanities of Calabria University .\n\nHe has collaborated with others on some philosophical reviews: \"Kant Studien\", \"Criterio\", \"Filosofia Oggi\", \"Nord e Sud\", \"Sapienza\", \"Choros\", \"Studi Kantiani\", \"Zeitschrift für philosophische Forschung\", \"The Journal of Value Inquiry\" (of which he is also Consulting Editor). He is member of the Scientific Committee of important philosophical reviews.\n\nHe is Visiting Professor at the Universidad Autónoma de Mèxico, at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (Ciudad de México) and at the California State University, Northridge. He has organized many national and international Congresses.\n\nHe twice obtained the \"Premio della Cultura\" of the Ministers' Council Presidency. In the month of November 2007, he obtained the International Prize of Culture \"Salvatore Valitutti\".\n\nPio Colonnello has privileged some themes of research: the investigation on authors and themes included between transcendental criticism and phenomenological thought (by Kant to Husserl); the reflections on the fundamentals problems of philosophy of existence and of contemporary hermeneutics (Heidegger, Jaspers, Ricoeur, Pareyson, Arendt); the analysis of some positions of the contemporary historicism between Europe and Latin America (Croce, Ortega y Gasset, Gaos, Ímaz, Nicol, Dussel). His proposal is to verify the interaction, in a historical and critical view, of the fundamental themes of Kantism, phenomenology and philosophy of existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57291503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57291503", "title": "Poetic Books", "text": "Poetic Books\n\nThe Poetic Books of the Hebrew Bible (the Christian Old Testament) are:\n\nThe term Sapiential Books refers to the same set, although not all the Psalms are usually regarded as belonging to the Wisdom tradition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30624239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30624239", "title": "Puhua", "text": "Puhua\n\nZhenzhou Puhua (Chinese: traditional: 鎮州普化, simplified: 普化, pinyin: \"Zhenzhou Pǔhuà\"; Japanese: \"Jinshu Fuke\", honorifically \"Fuke Zenji\" (lit. \"Zen master Fuke\")—allegedly ca. 770-840 \"or\" 860), also called P'u-k'o, and best known by his Japanese name, Fuke, was a potentially mythical Chinese Chán (Zen) master, monk-priest, wanderer and eccentric, whose existence and many affairs were advanced and likely fabricated by the now defunct Fuke Zen or \"Hotto-ha\" sect, or sub-sect, of Japanese Rinzai Zen Buddhism in the 17th or 18th century with the publication of the later-disconfirmed document, the \"Kyotaku Denki\" (虚鐸伝記), probably first published around 1640. For the komusō (虚無僧) monks of the Fuke sect, he was considered the traditional antecedent—at least in spiritual or philosophical terms—of their order, which was formally established in Edo Japan. It is more likely that the ideological roots of the sect derived from the Rinzai poet and iconoclast Ikkyū and the monk Shinchi Kakushin (心地覺心) who traveled to and from China and Japan in the 13th century. Still according to some accounts the sect is simply a more direct derivative of the Rinzai school and its teachings.\n\nThe few records of Puhua's life and affairs are those accounted, if only briefly, in several East Asian religious or historical references. One of the only credible sources on his life is to be found in the Tang Dynasty \"Record of Linji\", wherein he is portrayed as an obscure student and eventual dharma heir of Panshan Baoji, as well as a friend, colleague, student and/or contemporary of Linji Yixuan, who founded the Linji (臨済宗 \"Rinzai\") sect in China. This implies that he may have been a real individual, although the legends surrounding him in the \"Kyotaku Denki\" which connect him to the Fuke sect have been proven as fabrications created to further the komusōs' benefits under the Tokugawa shogunate.\n\nThe legends surrounding Puhua were more recently mentioned in the \"Monumenta Nipponica\", R.H. Blyth's \"A History of Haiku\" (published in 1963) as well as some of the writings of Osho, along with later publications concerning the Fuke-shū, the shakuhachi and related topics. In 1988 a shakuhachi learning and playing manual co-authored by the shakuhachi performer Christopher Yohmei Blasdel and the scholar Kamisango Yūkō was published; the work is entitled \"The Shakuhachi: A Manual for Learning\" (), and thoroughly details the historicity of Fuke/Puhua and the precursors to Fuke Zen in China.\n\nThere are two main sources for the life of Puhua: the aforementioned \"Linji lu\" or \"Record of Linji\" from China and the \"Kyotaku Denki Kokuji Kai\" from Japan. The latter has been debunked as mostly false, however the \"Linji lu\", conversely, is known to contain a variety of historically-accurate documents regarding Chinese Chán and is perhaps one of the most important works on Zen Buddhism. Thus, if Puhua actually existed his life would best be known by way of the \"Record of Linji\".\n\nWhile there is much disparity between the two texts, they do agree on at least one issue: In both the \"Record\" and \"Kyotaku Denki\" the notion of Puhua being an eccentric imbued with a sort of crazy wisdom, and perhaps even an iconoclast, is supported. Yet the texts again diverge on the issue of Fuke's influence on the Fuke sect of Japan: While the \"Kyotaku Denki\" directly attributes the founding of the school to him, the Fuke sect did not exist in China and as such he is never mentioned to be the leader of a separate religious tradition in the \"Linji lu\". Although this is the case, the \"Record\" does provide certain subtleties regarding Puhua as being a person of his own, self-directed character who often did things ubiquitously and ignored social norms and doctrinal establishments.\n\nThe following account of Puhua's life is an amalgamation of the accounts featured in both the \"Record\" and \"Kyotaku Denki\", although it includes some outside references as well.\n\nPuhua is said to have been born in Tang Dynasty China in the year 770. It is not known where he was born, however his name, Zhenzhou, possibly references Zhengzhou, a city in the modern Henan province of north-central China. The \"Kyotaku Denki\" states that he lived in \"Chen Province\". Coincidentally, there is a village known as Chen by the Yellow River in Henan. Furthermore, one of Puhua's supposed students, Chang Po (Japanese: \"Chōhaku\"; also stylized \"Cho Haku\", \"Chohaku\" or \"Chō Haku\" and sometimes referred to as, simply, \"Haku\") is said to have lived in Henan (also transliterated as \"Ho Nan\").\n\nOne account states that Puhua lived in and traveled through an area known as \"Toh\" in China.\n\nIn the \"Record of Linji\" Puhua is noted as being a student and dharma heir of Panshan Baoji (who by some accounts is either the same person as, or different from, another Chán patriarch by the name of Baizhang Huaihai) alongside two other dharma heirs: Huangbo and Linji. Puhua's own group of students reportedly included several individuals whose historicity is also dubious: \"Ennin\", \"Chang Po\" (Chōhaku) and \"Zhang Bai\" (whose name is also stylized as \"Zhang Bo\"). (At least one, if not all of these individuals is implied to have been Puhua's heir and purportedly passed on his legacy to many more disciples and eventually the komusō.)\n\nPuhua is said to have been not only a contemporary of Linji/Rinzai, but also one of his students. Thus Puhua is sometimes included in the fold of the \"Linji zōng\" (Japanese: \"Rinzai-shū\") in certain chronicles, as well as Huineng's \"Sudden Enlightenment\" school because it is, in some respects, an antecedent for the Rinzai school to begin with, and especially influenced Linji's epoynmous sect in the Tang Dynasty, where and when Puhua and Linji lived. (Not surprisingly, the Japanese Fuke sect of the Edo period considered itself a delineation of the Rinzai sect.)\n\nFuke was reputedly a multi-talented monk and priest, known for being inventive, intelligent and at the same time quite strict. He is characterized by all accounts to have been a spontaneous individual who demonstrated a unique style of non-verbal communication that is an important aspect of Zen Buddhist philosophy and historically the staple teaching method of the Zen Patriarchs and even Bodhidharma (an Indian monk and the ostensible founder of Zen Buddhism) himself. The \"Kyotaku Denki\" reinforces this characteristic, stating that Puhua \"was pleased with his uninhibited Zen spirit.\"\n\nThis kind of capriciousness can be gleaned from a legend regarding Puhua wherein he is attending the deathbed of his master Panshan:\nWhen Panshan Baoji was near death, he said to the monks, \"Is there anyone among you who can draw my likeness?\"\n\nMany of the monks made drawings for Panshan, but none were to his liking.\n\nThe monk Puhua stepped forward and said, \"I can draw it.\"\n\nPanshan said, \"Why don't you show it to me?\"\n\nPuhua then turned a somersault and went out.\n\nPanshan said, \"Someday, that fellow will teach others in a crazy manner!\"\n\nHaving said these words, Panshan passed away.\nMany stories about Puhua that appear in the \"Record of Linji\" add to his reputation of having a rough and uncompromising manner of expressing the dharma. For example:\n44.a. One day the master (Linji Yixuan) and Puhua went to a vegetarian banquet given them by a believer. During it, the master asked Puhua: \"'A hair swallows the vast ocean, a mustard seed contains Mt. Sumeru' – does this happen by means of supernatural powers, or is the whole body (substance, essence) like this?\" Puhua kicked over the table. The master said: \"Rough fellow.\" Puhua retorted: \"What place is this here to speak of rough and refined?\"\n\nb. The next day, they went again to a vegetarian banquet. During it, the master asked: \"Today's fare, how does it compare with yesterday's?\" Puhua (as before) kicked over the table. The master said: \"Understand it you do – but still, you are a rough fellow.\" Puhua replied: \"Blind fellow, does one preach of any roughness or finesse in the Buddha-Dharma?\" The master stuck out his tongue.\nThere is some controversy as to the degree and nature of Fuke's musical talents, but his later \"followers\" (the monks of the Fuke sect in Japan) would often reflect on a certain story that appears in the \"Kyotaku Denki\" for inspiration.\n\nThe story tells of Puhua going through his hometown, ringing a bell and reciting a gatha to summon others to enlightenment. The same, for many Fuke practitioners, applied to the shakuhachi through \"suizen\" (Japanese: 吹禅)—\"blowing meditation\" traditionally practiced by the komusō involving the use of the shakuhachi as a spiritual/religious instrument for meditation and as a way to attain bodhi—and its mastery was seen as a path to enlightenment:\nRinging a \"taku\" , he would go to town and say to passersby: \"\"Myōtōrai myōtōda, antōrai antōda, Shihō hachimenrai (ya), senpūda, Kokūra[i] (ya), rengada.\" [This roughly translates to,] \"If attacked in the light, I will strike back in the light. If attacked in the dark, I will strike in the dark. If attacked from all quarters, I will strike as a whirlwind does. If attacked from the empty sky, I will thrash with a flail.\"\n\nOne day, a man named Chō Haku of Ho Nan province heard these words and revered the priest Fuke for his great virtue. He appealed to the priest for permission to follow him, but the priest did not accept him.\n\nHaku had previously had a taste for playing pipes. Having listened to the sound of the Priest's bell, he at once made a [bamboo] flute and imitated the sound. [Thereafter] he played the sound untiringly on the flute and never played other pieces\n\nSince he made the sound of the bell on his flute, he named the flute \"kyotaku\"...\n\nFuke's gatha is sometimes called \"Shidanoge\".\n\nAnother version of the story portrays Chō Haku attempting to become the student of Zhang Bai instead of Puhua directly, as in this version Zhang Bai is depicted as a student who garnered favor from Puhua and so had become admired by Chō Haku.\n\nIt was believed by the historical komusō that the tradition that led to \"suizen\" was handed down by Chō Haku through his family and eventually reached its way to Japan by way of the monk Kakushin, to the komusō and later the founder of Myoanji—at one time the head temple of the Fuke-shū in Kyoto and still a place of profound importance for many shakuhachi, Fuke Zen and Rinzai Zen enthusiasts the world over—Kyochiku Zenji (also known as Kichiku).\n\nFuke's death is related as follows:\n\n\"One day at the street market Fuke was begging all and sundry to give him a robe. Everybody offered him one, but he did not want any of them. The master [Linji] made the superior buy a coffin, and when Fuke returned, said to him: \"There, I had this robe made for you.\" Fuke shouldered the coffin, and went back to the street market, calling loudly: \"Rinzai had this robe made for me! I am off to the East Gate to enter transformation\" (to die).\" The people of the market crowded after him, eager to look. Fuke said: \"No, not today. Tomorrow, I shall go to the South Gate to enter transformation.\" And so for three days. Nobody believed it any longer. On the fourth day, and now without any spectators, Fuke went alone outside the city walls, and laid himself into the coffin. He asked a traveler who chanced by to nail down the lid.\n\nThe news spread at once, and the people of the market rushed there. On opening the coffin, they found that the body had vanished, but from high up in the sky they heard the ring of his hand bell.\"\n\nHisamatsu Fuyo, a 19th-century Zen Buddhist hermit and shakuhachi \"dai-shihan\" (grandmaster) was once interviewed regarding Fuke:\n\nQ. \"What kind of person was Fuke Zenji?\"\n\nA. \"I do not know. Better ask someone with more knowledge of Zen.\"\n\nQ. \"Wasn't Fuke the ancestor of shakuhachi? If one follows this path but doesn't know its origins, is that not a sign of immaturity?\"\n\nA. \"As for myself, because I understand the source of shakuhachi, I say I do not know Fuke. Fuke was an enlightened man, but I do not think he sought his enlightenment by playing shakuhachi. He cannot be compared to an ignorant blind person like me who plays shakuhachi because he enjoys it and has gradually come to know that shakuhachi is a Zen instrument. Even if Fuke had played shakuhachi, it would only have been a passing fancy. His practice of shakuhachi would not compare to my training for many years. If Fuke were to come alive again in this generation he would surely become my disciple and ask me to show him the way. If you look at records from the time of Fuke, and if you know all about his life, but you do not know his enlightenment, then you do not know Fuke. On the other hand, a person who knows nothing of his life, but knows his enlightenment, he knows Fuke. I do not know him yet.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3380933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3380933", "title": "Reflectivism", "text": "Reflectivism\n\nReflectivism is a broad umbrella label, used primarily in International Relations theory, for a range of theoretical approaches which oppose rational-choice accounts of social phenomena and, perhaps, positivism more generally. The label was popularised by Robert Keohane in his presidential address to the International Studies Association in 1988. The address was entitled \"International Institutions: Two Approaches\", and contrasted two broad approaches to the study of international institutions (and international phenomena more generally). One was \"rationalism\", the other what Keohane referred to as \"reflectivism\". Rationalists — including realists, neo-realists, liberals, neo-liberals, and scholars using game-theoretic or expected-utility models — are theorists who adopt the broad theoretical and ontological commitments of rational-choice theory.\n\nKeohane characterised rationalism in the following fashion:\n\nKeohane went on to contrast this with the approach of \"reflective\" scholars:\n\nReflectivism and rationalism are typically used as labels applying not just to the study of international institutions, but of international relations more widely, and even the social world as a whole. Sociologies and histories of the International Relations discipline have sometimes used the opposition between these approaches to describe one of the central fault-lines within the discipline.\n\nThere may be another sense, not specifically discussed by Keohane, in which the label is apt. Reflectivist scholars tend to emphasise the inherent reflexivity both of theory and of the social world it studies. Unlike the term \"reflectivism\", the concept of \"reflexivity\" has wide currency outside of international relations, having come to prominence in social theory in the latter part of the 20th century. Reflexivity refers to the ways in which elements and phenomena in social life have the capacity to \"fold in on\", or be \"directed towards\", themselves. That is, they can produce effects on, or have implications for, their own features, dynamics and existence. An example is the \"self-fulfilling prophecy\" (or \"self-disconfirming prophecy\") — a situation in which merely describing, predicting, imagining or believing something to be the case may eventually result in its actually coming to be the case. More generally, reflectivists emphasise the significance of human self-awareness: the ways people observe, imagine, describe, predict and theorise about themselves and the social reality around them, and the recursive effect this \"self-knowledge\" or these \"reflections\" have on that social reality itself. Some scholars link reflexivity with the broader debate, within International Relations theory and social theory more generally, over the relationship between \"agency\" and \"structure\" in the social world. That is, the relationship between people's capacity to \"freely\" choose their actions and/or to \"make a real difference\" to the world around them, and the social \"structures\" in which people are always embedded, and which may powerfully shape – often against their will or in ways they are unaware of – the kinds of things they are able to do.\n\nReflectivists also often claim that studying and \"theorising\" about international relations can be, should be, and are necessarily, reflexive. For one thing, they claim, theories about social reality may affect – might change – social reality itself. Some critics of (neo-)realism have raised the possibility that realist theories, for instance, may act as self-fulfilling prophecies. To the extent that they are taken by theorists and practitioners to be the \"common sense\" of international politics, diplomacy and policy-making, those theories may encourage precisely the kind of mistrust, ruthless competition and amorality that they posit to be natural and inherent features of the international realm. Familiar methodological examples of the capacity of observation and theorising to affect the object/phenomena of study include the \"observer-expectancy effect\" and long-running concerns among anthropologists and ethnographers over the possible effect of participant observation on the very people and behaviours being studied.\n\nFurthermore, reflectivists argue, those theories invariably reflect in important ways the social context in which they were produced; so in a sense the social world shapes the theories made of it. There is often a normative or ethical aspect to the emphasis on reflexivity. Reflectivists often argue that theorists should be as self-aware as possible — to reflect as much as possible on the influences (assumptions, biases, normative commitments, etc.) that feed into and shape the theories they produce. In addition, they should be able to hold their own theories to the standards and arguments they set out in those same theories. And finally, they should reflect on the likely and possible effects of their theorising. Some reflectivists (e.g. those of a post-structuralist persuasion) have argued that theorising should itself be understood as a practice, like the human practices that theories study; that it is an act (conscious or unconscious) of intervention into social reality, and that as such it is never \"innocent\" or \"neutral\", and there is a degree of responsibility for its consequences that theorists cannot (and should not try to) escape.\n\nReflectivist approaches include such approaches as constructivism, feminism, post-structuralism, post-colonialism and Critical Theory. The challenge launched by these approaches against rationalist approaches, which have largely dominated the IR discipline for the past three decades, was linked to the \"Third Debate in International Relations\" between positivists and post-positivists/anti-positivists. (The first two disciplinary \"Great Debates\" are supposed to have pitted (1) realists vs. so-called \"idealists\", and (2) behaviouralists vs. so-called \"traditionalists\", the latter favouring historical methods and insights from political philosophy.) Although the large majority of reflectivists oppose positivism, it might be a mistake to equate reflectivism with post-positivism or anti-positivism, as (conventional) constructivists who are positivist in orientation would nevertheless fall under Keohane's description. Confusion may be compounded by the fact that in International Relations theory, rationalism and positivism can often be (erroneously) equated. There are many positivist political scientists who do not adopt rational-choice assumptions.\n\nSome mainstream International Relations scholars, dismissing the importance or value of non-positivist approaches to social science, have reframed the rationalism-reflectivism debate narrowly, as a debate between rationalism and (\"conventional\") constructivism, construed as the two major social theories (or \"ontologies\") of (mainstream) International Relations theory. The rationalism-constructivism debate drew considerable attention within the mainstream at the turn of the 21st century, with some rejecting the starkness of the opposition itself and asserting a fundamental compatibility, or possibility of synthesis, between the two approaches.\n\nThe main criticisms of reflectivist approaches stem from the epistemological differences between reflectivism and what in the social sciences has come to be known as positivism. Since the 1970s, mainstream International Relations theory has become increasingly, and more insistently, positivist in epistemological orientation. The typical reflectivist rejection of positivist assumptions and methods has led to criticism that the approach cannot make reliable statements about the outside world and even that it has repudiated the entire \"social science enterprise\". Such criticisms are widespread in American political science, and reflectivism is not generally popular in U.S.-based IR scholarship, especially when compared with scholarship originating in Europe and the third world.\n\n"}
{"id": "58136808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58136808", "title": "Russian Machism", "text": "Russian Machism\n\nRussian Machism is a political/philosophical viewpoint which emerged in Imperial Russia in the beginning of the twentieth century before the Russian Revolution. They upheld the scientific and philosophical insights of Ernst Mach to be of great interest. Many of the Russian Machists were Marxists, and indeed viewed Machism as an essential ingredient of a materialist outlook on the world.\n\nIn 1902 Pavel Ivanovich Novgorodtsev edited the book \"Problems of Idealism\" (\"Problemy Idealizma\") which included contributions from Sergei Bulgakov, Evgenii Nikolaevitch Troubetzkoy, Sergei Nikolaevich Trubetskoy, Peter Berngardovich Struve, Nikolai Berdyaev, Semyon Frank, Sergei Askol'dov, Kistyakovski, Alexander Sergeyevich Lappo-Danilevsky, Sergey Oldenburg, and Zhukovsky. In proclaiming the advent of a new idealist movement he also derided positivism as being narrow and dogmatic.\n\nThe publication of \"Studies in the Philosophy of Marxism\" (Russian: Очерки по философии Марксизма) in 1908 marked a key moment in the emergence of this viewpoint. However whilst many of the proponents of Russian Machism saw it as adding important insights to what a materialist view of the world would look like, Vladimir Lenin was a consistent opponent.\n\nThis list includes people who at one time or other have been described as Russian Machists:\n\n"}
{"id": "33462533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33462533", "title": "So Shim Sa Zen Center", "text": "So Shim Sa Zen Center\n\nSoshimsa Zen Center ( Hangul: 소심사 Hanja: 少心寺) is a Buddhist organization in New Jersey affiliated with the Taego Order of Korean Zen.\n\nThe organization was founded in May 2009, and is currently a 501(c)3 non profit charitable organization. Since 1975, when founder Ven. Il-Cho Bobsanim (일초 법사님) came to United States, his mission has been to develop a temple in order to foster the teachings of Buddhism. Today, three of Ven. Il-Cho’s disciples are the pillars that support So Shim Sa. Ven. Duhk-Song Sunim (덕성 스님) has studied under Ven. Il-Cho for over three decades and serves as the director of the center's outreach program, 1000 Hands. Elected as Director of Wellness Programs, and with a Doctorate in Clinical Psychology, Ven. Mooh-Sang Sunim (무상 스님) coordinates education and wellness programs offered at So Shim Sa. A deciple of Ven. Il-Cho since 1997 and ordained as a Buddhist monk in 2003, Ven. Myong-Ahn Sunim (명안 스님) serves as the appointed Abbot.\n\nSoshimsaa Buddhist Fellowship opened its first University Chapter on campus of Rutgers University. Rutgers University recognized the fellowship as a campus chaplaincy. Ven. Myong-Ahn serves as the Chapter President. All three of So Shim Sa's monks also sit on the Rutgers University's Religious Life Council. So Shim Sa Buddhist Fellowship issued its first International Charter for the Brazil Chapter in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "4304907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4304907", "title": "Stanisław Jaśkowski", "text": "Stanisław Jaśkowski\n\nStanisław Jaśkowski (22 April 1906, Warsaw – 16 November 1965, Warsaw) was a Polish logician who made important contributions to proof theory and formal semantics. He was a student of Jan Łukasiewicz and a member of the Lwów–Warsaw School of Logic. Upon his death his name was added to the Genius Wall of Fame. He was the President (rector) of the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń.\n\nJaśkowski is considered to be one of the founders of natural deduction, which he discovered independently of Gerhard Gentzen in the 1930s. (Gentzen's approach initially became more popular with logicians because it could be used to prove the cut-elimination theorem. But Jaśkowski's is closer to the way that proofs are done in practice.) He was also one of the first to propose a formal calculus of inconsistency-tolerant (or paraconsistent) logic. Furthermore, Jaśkowski was a pioneer in the investigation of both intuitionistic logic and free logic.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37894639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37894639", "title": "Svasaṃvedana", "text": "Svasaṃvedana\n\nIn Buddhist philosophy, Svasaṃvedana (also \"Svasaṃvitti\") is a term which refers to the self-reflexive nature of consciousness. It was initially a theory of cognition held by the Mahasamghika and Sautrantika schools while the Sarvastivada-Vaibhasika school argued against it.\n\nThe idea was famously defended by the Indian philosopher Dignaga, and is an important doctrinal term in Indian Mahayana thought and Tibetan Buddhism. It is also often translated as self cognition or self apperception. \n\nAccording to Zhihua Yao, the theory was first presented by the Mahasamghika school. Their view was preserved in the Sarvastivada compendium of Abhidharma called Maha-Vibhasa and states:It is the nature (\"svabhava\") of awareness (\"jñana\") and so forth to apprehend, thus awareness can apprehend itself as well as others. This is like a lamp that can illuminate itself and others owing to its nature of luminosity.The issue is also discussed in the Theravadin Katthavatthu (section V.9) in a dialogue between a Theravadin and an Andhaka (the Mahasamghikas in the Andhra region). In the dialogue, the Andhaka is asked by the Theravadin if one knows an awareness of the present \"by that same awareness.\" The Andhaka first denies this, but then affirms it when asked again. In the commentary to the Katthavatthu, Buddhaghosa explains this because \"continuity is concerned\", thus if seen by itself a mind moment cannot know itself but in a continuous stream of mind moments it can thus be said. The Theravadin counters with the argument that the other aggregates like feeling do not feel themselves and uses similes like a knife that cannot cut itself or a needle that does not pierce itself. The Andhaka then recovers by making the following argument for his position of self cognition:But, when all phenomena are seen as impermanent, is not that awareness also seen as impermanent?Sarvastivada sources which discuss self-cognition mainly do so in order to refute the idea that a mind moment can know itself in that moment. These include the Jñanaprasthana and Mahavibhasa. However that does not mean the Sarvastivadins reject all theories of self cognition, they developed their own theory which argued that mind moments know themselves only reflexively in regards to the previous mind moments. As Zhihua Yao states, \"in other words, the mind knows itself through a \"reflection\" of the past mind\". The Sarvastivadins use their metaphysical theory of the real existence of the past, present and future to allow for a present mind to take a past mind as itself.\n\nSautrantika authors also discussed the theory. It was extensively covered by the Harivarman, the author of the Tattvasiddhishastra, and shows that he was in a dialogue with both Sarvastivada and Mahasamghika views. Harivarman's view argues against the Mahasamghika's simultaenous model of self-cognition and instead argues that self-cognition is only seen in the course of successive moments of cognition. That is, it involves multiple mental processes which Harivarman considers as happening in the \"present continuum\" and is not a case of a single mind moment knowing itself but is a case of the mind grasping the \"image\" (\"akara\") of itself as it is fading away. This is also part of his account of how memory works.\n\nThe Buddhist philosopher Dignaga also defended a theory of \"svasamvedana\" drawing on Sautrantika and Yogacara influences. For Dignaga, \"svasamvedana\" is a kind of perception (\"pratyaksa\") which is an \"internal awareness of mental consciousness\" and his theory of perception also entails that it is non-conceptual (unlike the other source of valid cognition, \"anumana -\" inference). \n\nSvasaṃvedana is at the root of a major doctrinal disagreement in Indian Mahayana Buddhism. While defended by the Yogacara thinkers such as Dharmakirti and the eclectic Santaraksita, it was attacked by 'Prasangika Madhyamika' thinkers such as Candrakirti and Santideva. Since in Mādhyamika thought all dharmas are empty of inherent essence (Svabhava), they argued that consciousness could not be an inherently reflexive ultimate reality since that would mean it was self validating and therefore not characterized by emptiness.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism there are various competing views regarding svasaṃvedana (Tibetan: Ranggi rig pa). \n\nIn the Nyingma school's Dzogchen tradition, svasaṃvedana is often called 'the very nature of mind' (sems kyi chos nyid) and metaphorically referred to as 'luminosity' (\"gsal ba\") or 'clear light' (\"'od gsal\"). A common Tibetan metaphor for this reflexivity is that of a lamp in a dark room which in the act of illuminating objects in the room also illuminates itself. Dzogchen meditative practices aim to bring the mind to direct realization of this luminous nature. In Dzogchen (as well as some Mahamudra traditions) Svasaṃvedana is seen as the primordial substratum or ground (gdod ma'i gzhi) of mind. \n\nFollowing Je Tsongkhapa's (1357–1419) interpretation of the Prasaṅgika Madhyamaka view, the Gelug school completely denies both the conventional and the ultimate existence of reflexive awareness. This is one of Tsongkhapa's \"eight difficult points\" that distinguish the Prasaṅgika view from others. The Nyingma philosopher Jamgon Ju Mipham Gyatso (1846–1912) defended the conventional existence of reflexive awareness as per the Madhyamaka two truths doctrine. According to Mipham, the Prasangika critique of reflexive awareness only applied to its ultimate inherent reality and not its conventional status.\n\n"}
{"id": "46767656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46767656", "title": "Terty Filippov", "text": "Terty Filippov\n\nTerty Ivanovich Filippov (Тертий Иванович Филиппов; 5 January 1825 in Rzhev, Tver Governorate, Russian Empire – 12 December 1899 in Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire) was a Russian folklorist, singer, pedagogue, the Honorary member of the Saint Petersburg Academy of Sciences. As a journalist, Filippov contributed mostly to Pogodin's \"Moskvityanin\", Katkov's \"Russky Vestnik\" and \"Russkaya Beseda\", the magazine he was a co-founder of. In 1857-1864 Filippov served as a Russian Orthodox Church official. In 1889-1899 he was the Chairman of the committee.\n"}
{"id": "2391256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2391256", "title": "Titus Burckhardt", "text": "Titus Burckhardt\n\nTitus Burckhardt (who also used Ibrahim Izz al-Din as his Islamic name), a German Swiss, was born in Florence, Italy in 1908 and died in Lausanne, Switzerland in 1984. He devoted all his life to the study and exposition of the different aspects of Wisdom tradition.\n\nHe was an eminent member of the \"Traditionalist School\" of twentieth-century authors. He was a frequent contributor to the journal \"Studies in Comparative Religion\" along with other prominent members of the school.\n\nBurckhardt came from the patrician Burckhardt family of Basel, who had also produced the Orientalist and convert to Islam, Johann Ludwig Burckhardt (1784 – 1817). He was the great-nephew of the art-historian Jacob Burckhardt and the son of the sculptor Carl Burckhardt. Titus Burckhardt was a contemporary of Frithjof Schuon – leading exponent of traditionalist thought in the twentieth century – and the two spent their early school days together in Basel around the time of the First World War. This was the beginning of an intimate friendship and harmonious intellectual and spiritual relationship that was to last a lifetime.\n\nBurckhardt was, like his grandfather, a connoisseur of Islamic art, architecture and civilisation. He compiled and published work from the Sufi masters: Ibn Arabi (1165–1240), Abd-al-karim Jili (1365–1424) and Muhammad al-Arabi al-Darqawi (1760–1823).\n\nBooks of Titus Burckhardt:\n\nBooks in German\n\nBooks in French\n\nBooks in English\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38402942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38402942", "title": "Vietnamese Thiền", "text": "Vietnamese Thiền\n\nThiền Buddhism (, , ) is the Vietnamese name for the Zen school of Buddhism. Thiền is derived from Chinese \"Chán\" (禪), which is in turn derived from the Pali term \"jhāna\" (Sanskrit: dhyāna).\n\nAccording to traditional accounts of Vietnam, in 580, an Indian monk named Vinītaruci () traveled to Vietnam after completing his studies with Sengcan, the third patriarch of Chinese Chán. This, then, would be the first appearance of Vietnamese Thiền Buddhism.\n\nThe sect that Vinītaruci and his lone Vietnamese disciple founded would become known as the oldest branch of Thiền. After a period of obscurity, the Vinītaruci School became one of the most influential Buddhist groups in Vietnam by the 10th century, particularly so under the patriarch Vạn-Hạnh (died 1018).\n\nOther early Vietnamese Thiền schools included that of Wu Yantong, called Vô Ngôn Thông in Vietnamese, which was associated with the teaching of Mazu Daoyi, and the Thảo Đường, which incorporated \"nianfo\" chanting techniques; both were founded by Chinese monks. A new school was founded by one of Vietnam's religious kings; this was the Trúc Lâm school, which evinced a deep influence from Confucian and Taoist philosophy. Nevertheless, Trúc Lâm's prestige waned over the following centuries as Confucianism became dominant in the royal court.\n\nIn the 17th century, a group of Chinese monks led by Nguyên Thiều established a vigorous new school, the Lâm Tế, which is the Vietnamese pronunciation of \"Linji\". A more domesticated offshoot of Lâm Tế, the Liễu Quán school, was founded in the 18th century and has since been the predominant branch of Vietnamese Thiền.\n\nThiền master Thích Thanh Từ is credited for renovating Trúc Lâm in Vietnam. He is one of the most prominent and influential Thiền masters currently alive. He was a disciple of Master Thích Thiện Hoa.\n\nThe most famous practitioner of syncretized Thiền Buddhism in the West is Thích Nhất Hạnh who has authored dozens of books and founded Dharma center Plum Village in France together with his colleague, Thiền Master bhikkhuni Chân Không.\n\nBodhidharma laid the foundation to formation of four principles of Chan Buddhism, the general for all schools which came from it:\n\nBodhidharma reduced all possible ways of release to two: way of reason and way of just behavior (entry into practice). On the way of reason, according to Bodhidharma's doctrine, the big belief in continuity of all beings with Buddha-nature, which is neither unity nor a set and hidden behind external forms, is necessary. On the way of just behavior, according to Bodhidharma's doctrine, lack of disorders of mind is necessary. The way of entry into practice, according to Bodhidharma, includes the following methods:\n\nOne of the basic concepts of Thiền is a concept \"(Tathāgata) of \"thus coming\". The term is often thought to mean either \"one who has thus gone\" (tathā-gata) or \"one who has thus come\" (tathā-āgata). This is interpreted as signifying that the Tathāgata is beyond all coming and going – beyond all transitory phenomena.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2902552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2902552", "title": "Vyacheslav Ivanov (poet)", "text": "Vyacheslav Ivanov (poet)\n\nVyacheslav Ivanovich Ivanov (; – 16 July 1949) was a Russian poet and playwright associated with the Russian Symbolist movement. He was also a philosopher, translator, and literary critic.\n\nBorn in Moscow, Ivanov graduated from the First Moscow Gymnasium with a gold medal and entered the Moscow University where he studied history and philosophy under Sir Paul Vinogradoff. In 1886, he moved to the Berlin University to study Roman law and economics under Theodor Mommsen. During his stay in Germany, he absorbed the thoughts of Friedrich Nietzsche and German Romantics, notably Novalis and Friedrich Hölderlin.\n\nFrom 1892, Ivanov studied archaeology in Rome, completing his doctoral dissertation there. \nIn Rome, he met Lydia Zinovieva-Annibal, a poet and translator. Having both received an Orthodox ecclesiastical divorce, they married in 1899, first settling in Athens, then moving to Geneva, and making pilgrimages to Egypt and Palestine. During that period, Ivanov frequently visited Italy, where he studied the Renaissance art. The rugged nature of Lombardy and the Alps became the subject of his first sonnets, which were heavily influenced by the medieval poetry of Catholic mystics.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, Ivanov elaborated his views on the spiritual mission of Rome and the Ancient Greek cult of Dionysus. He summed up his Dionysian ideas in the treatise \"The Hellenic Religion of the Suffering God\" (1904), which traces the roots of literature in general and, following Nietzsche's \"The Birth of Tragedy\", the art of tragedy in particular to ancient Dionysian mysteries.\nIvanov's first collection, \"Lodestars\", was published in 1903. It contained many of his pieces written a decade earlier and was praised by the leading critics as a new chapter in the Russian Symbolism. The poems were compared to Milton's and Trediakovsky's on account of their detached, calculated archaism.\n\nIn 1905, Ivanov made his triumphant return to St Petersburg, where he was much lionized as a foreign curiosity. A turreted house where he and Zinovieva-Annibal settled became the most fashionable literary salon of the era, and was frequented by poets (Alexander Blok), philosophers (Nikolai Berdyayev), artists (Konstantin Somov), and dramatists (Vsevolod Meyerhold). The latter staged Calderon's \"Adoration of the Cross\" in Ivanov's house. The poet exerted a formative influence on the Russian Symbolist movement, whose main tenets were formulated in the turreted house.\n\nAccording to James H. Billington: \n'Viacheslav the Magnificent' was the crown prince and \"chef de salon\" of the new society, which met in his seventh floor apartment 'The Tower,' overlooking the gardens of the Tauride Palace in St. Peterburg. Walls and partitions were torn down to accommodate the increasing numbers of talented and disputatious people who flocked to the Wednesday soirees, which were rarely in full swing until after supper had been served at 2 A.M.\n\nFuture Russian Orthodox nun Maria Skobtsova was then an acclaimed poet and frequent guest at the Ivanov flat. Decades later, while living in Paris as a White emigre, she recalled the atmosphere at the Tower: \nWe lived in the middle of a vast country as if on an unhabited island. Russia was illiterate, whereas in our milieu was concentrated all the culture of the world: the Greeks were quoted by heart, we welcomed the French symbolists, we thought of Scandinavian literature as our own, we were familiar with the philosophy, theology, poetry and history of the whole wide world, in this sense we were citizens of the universe, the keepers of mankind's cultural museum. This was Rome in the time of its decline... We played out the last act of the tragedy concerned with the rift between the intelligentsia and the people. Beyond us stretched out the Russian Empire's snowy desert, a country in fetters: it was as ignorant of our delights as of our anguish, while its own delights and anguish had no effect on us.\n\nIt was at this time that Ivanov wrote the first of his two plays, \"Tantalus\" (1905). Like his second, \"Prometheus\" (1919), it imitated the dramatic structure and mythological subject-matter of Aeschylean tragedy and was written in obscure and archaic language. It was his unrealised, utopian ideas about theatre, however, that proved far more influential. Ivanov regarded it as having the potential to be the most powerful of the arts and capable of taking over the function of the Church and restoring religious belief in a society that had lost its faith.\n\nIvanov's theories were part of a shift in the second phase of Russian Symbolism away from the influence of French decadence and the ideas of Valery Bryusov, with its abstract evocations of inner states, towards the German philosophical tradition, and the ideas of Richard Wagner and Friedrich Nietzsche in particular, and the promotion of an ecstatic (in both the religious and philosophical senses) theatre of mass participation. The ideas of Aleksei Remizov (who was the literary manager of Vsevolod Meyerhold's New Drama Association at this time), Fyodor Sologub, and the Mystical Anarchism of Georgy Chulkov were all part of this second phase of the movement.\n\nIvanov proposed the creation of a new type of mass theatre, which he called a \"collective action,\" that would be modelled on ancient religious rituals, Athenian tragedy, and the medieval mystery play. Writing in an essay on the mask (\"Poèt i Čern\") that was published in the magazine \"Vesy\" (\"Libra\" or \"The Scales\") in 1904, Ivanov argued for a revival of the ancient relationship between the poet and the masses. Inspired by \"The Birth of Tragedy\" and Wagner's theories of theatre, Ivanov sought to provide a philosophical foundation for his proposals by linking Nietzsche's analysis with Leo Tolstoy's Christian moralising, and ancient cultic performance with later Christian mysteries. The idea that the Dionysian could be associated with a concept of universal brotherhood would have been completely alien to Nietzsche, who had stressed the fundamental differences between the two traditions. Ivanov, however, understood Dionysus as an avatar for Christ. By means of the mask, he argued, the tragic hero appears not as an individual character but rather as the embodiment of a fundamental Dionysian reality, \"the one all-human I.\" By means of hero's example, therefore, staged myth would give the people access to its sense of the \"total unity of suffering.\"\n\nRejecting theatrical illusion, Ivanov's modern liturgical theatre would offer not the representation of action (\"mimesis\"), but action itself (\"praxis\"). This would be achieved by overcoming the separation between stage and auditorium, adopting an open space similar to the classical Greek \"orchêstra\", and abolishing the division between actor and audience, such that all become co-creating participants in a sacred rite. Ivanov imagined staging such a performance in a hall in which furniture is distributed \"by whim and inspiration.\" Actors would mingle with the audience, handing out masks and costumes, before, singing and dancing as a chorus, collective improvisation would merge all participants into a communal unity.\n\nThus, he hoped, the theatre would facilitate a genuine revolution in culture and society. Writing in \"Po zvezdam\" in 1908, Ivanov argued:\nThe theatres of the chorus tragedies, the comedies and the mysteries must become the breeding-ground for the creative, or prophetic, self-determination of the people; only then will be resolved the problem of fusing actors and spectators in a single orgiastic body. [...] And only, we may add, when the choral voice of such communities becomes a genuine referendum of the true will of the people will political freedom become a reality.\n\nWhile some, such as the director Meyerhold, enthusiastically embraced Ivanov's ideas (at least insofar as they proposed overcoming the division between actor and audience in a collective improvisation), others were more skeptical. The poet Andrei Bely argued that the realities of a modern, class-divided society could not be abolished by means of masks and costumes, however earnestly adopted:\n\nLet's suppose we go into the temple-theatre, robe ourselves in white clothes, crown ourselves with bunches of roses, perform a mystery play (its theme is always the same—God-like man wrestles with fate) and then at the appropriate moment we join hands and begin to dance. Imagine yourself, reader, if only for just one minute, in this role. We are the ones who will be spinning round the sacrificial altar—all of us: the fashionable lady, the up-and-coming stockbroker, the worker and the member of the State Council. It is too much to expect that our steps and our gestures will coincide. While the class struggle still exists, these appeals for an aesthetic democratization are strange.\n\nHis wife's death in 1907 was a great blow to Ivanov. Thereafter the dazzling Byzantine texture of his poetry wore thin, as he insensibly slipped into theosophy and mysticism. The poet even claimed to have had a vision of his late wife ordering him to marry Vera Shvarsalon, her daughter by her first marriage. Indeed, he married 23-year-old Vera in the summer of 1913; their son Dmitry had been born in 1912. Vera's death in 1920, at the age of 30, broke his heart.\n\nAccording to an autobiographical sketch written by Anna Akhmatova, Ivanov first met her in 1910. At the time, Akhmatova was still married to Nikolai Gumilev, who first brought her to the turreted house. There, Akhmatova read some of her verse aloud to Ivanov, who ironically quipped, \"What truly heavy romanticism.\" A short time later, Gumilev left his wife for a big game hunting holiday in Ethiopia. In the aftermath, Ivanov tried very hard to persuade Akhmatova to leave her immature husband, saying, \"You'll make him a man if you do.\" Moreover, Akhmatova indignantly recalled that Ivanov would often weep as she recited her verse at the turreted house, but would later, \"vehemently criticize,\" the same poems at literary salons. Akhmatova would never forgive him for this. Her ultimate evaluation of her former patron was as follows, \"Vyacheslav was neither grand nor magnificent (he thought this up himself) but a 'catcher of men.'\"\n\nUpon their return from an Italian voyage (1912–13), Ivanov made the acquaintances of art critic Mikhail Gershenzon, philosopher Sergei Bulgakov, and composer Alexander Scriabin. He elaborated many of his Symbolist theories in a series of articles, which were finally revised and reissued as \"Simbolismo\" in 1936. At that time, he relinquished poetry in favour of translating the works of Sappho, Alcaeus, Aeschylus, and Petrarch into the Russian language.\n\nIn 1920, Ivanov moved to Baku, where he held the University Chair of Classical Philology. He concentrated on his scholarly work and completed a treatise \"Dionysus and Early Dionysianism\" (published 1923), which earned him a Ph.D. degree in philology. The new communist government didn't allow him to travel outside the Soviet Union until 1924.\n\nFrom Azerbaijan he proceeded to Italy, where he settled in Rome. In Rome, Ivanov found employment as professor of Old Church Slavonic at the Russicum. Ivanov was received into the Russian Catholic Church in 1926. In an interview for the Russicum's newspaper, Ivanov argued that, prior to their Great Schism, Latin and Byzantine Christianity were \"two principles that mutually complement each other.\" \"The Church must permeate all branches of life: social issues, art, culture, and just everything,\" he argued, and the \"Roman Church corresponds to such criteria and by joining this Church I become truly Orthodox.\" His last collections of verse were the \"Roman Sonnets\" (1924) and the \"Roman Diary\" (1944). Many other poems appeared posthumously.\n\nIvanov died in Rome in 1949 and was interred at the Cimitero Acattolico, not far from the graves of Karl Briullov and Alexander Ivanov.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2017814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2017814", "title": "Xi Jinping", "text": "Xi Jinping\n\nXi Jinping (; ; Mandarin: ; born 15 June 1953) is a Chinese politician serving as general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC), president of the People's Republic of China, and chairman of the Central Military Commission. Often described as China's \"paramount leader\", in 2016 the CPC officially gave him the title of \"core leader\". As general secretary, Xi holds an ex-officio seat on the Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China, China's top decision-making body.\n\nXi is the first general secretary born after the Second World War and the establishment of the People's Republic of China. The son of Chinese Communist veteran Xi Zhongxun, he was exiled to rural Yanchuan County as a teenager following his father's purge during the Cultural Revolution, and lived in a cave in the village of Liangjiahe, where he organised communal labourers. After studying at the Tsinghua University as a \"Worker-Peasant-Soldier Student\", Xi rose through the ranks politically in China's coastal provinces. Xi was governor of Fujian province from 1999 to 2002, and governor, then party secretary of neighbouring Zhejiang province from 2002 to 2007. Following the dismissal of Chen Liangyu, Xi was transferred to Shanghai as party secretary for a brief period in 2007. He joined the Politburo Standing Committee and central secretariat in October 2007, spending the next five years as Hu Jintao's presumed successor. Xi was vice president from 2008 to 2013 and vice chairman of the Central Military Commission from 2010 to 2012.\n\nSince assuming power, Xi has introduced far-ranging measures to enforce party discipline and to ensure internal unity. His signature anti-corruption campaign has led to the downfall of prominent incumbent and retired Communist Party officials, including members of the Politburo Standing Committee. Described as a Chinese nationalist, he has tightened restrictions over civil society and ideological discourse, advocating Internet censorship in China as the concept of \"internet sovereignty\". Xi has called for further socialist market economic reforms, for governing according to the law and for strengthening legal institutions, with an emphasis on individual and national aspirations under the slogan \"Chinese Dream\". He has also championed a more assertive foreign policy, particularly with regard to China–Japan relations, China's claims in the South China Sea, and its role as a leading advocate of free trade and globalization. Xi has sought to expand China's Eurasian influence through the One Belt One Road Initiative. The 2015 meeting between Xi and Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou marked the first time the political leaders of both sides of the Taiwan Strait have met since the end of the Chinese Civil War in 1950.\n\nConsidered the central figure of the fifth generation of leadership of the People's Republic, Xi has significantly centralised institutional power by taking on a wide range of leadership positions, including chairing the newly formed National Security Commission, as well as new steering committees on economic and social reforms, military restructuring and modernization, and the Internet. Said to be one of the most powerful leaders in modern Chinese history, Xi's political thoughts have been written into the party and state constitutions, and under his leadership the latter was amended to abolish term limits for the presidency. In 2018, \"Forbes\" ranked him as the most powerful and influential person in the world, dethroning Vladimir Putin who held the accolade for five consecutive years.\n\nXi Jinping was born in Beijing on 15 June 1953. After the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949 by Mao Zedong, Xi's father held a series of posts, including propaganda chief, vice-premier, and vice-chairman of the National People's Congress. Xi's father is from Fuping County, Shaanxi, and Xi could further trace his patrilineal descent from Xiying in Dengzhou, Henan. He is the second son of Xi Zhongxun and his wife Qi Xin.\n\nIn 1963, when Xi was age 10, his father was purged from the Party and sent to work in a factory in Luoyang, Henan. In May 1966, the Cultural Revolution cut short Xi's secondary education when all secondary classes were halted for students to criticise and fight their teachers. Student militants ransacked the Xi family home and one of Xi's sisters, Xi Heping, was killed. Later, his mother was forced to publicly denounce him as he was paraded before a crowd as an enemy of the revolution. Xi was aged 15 when his father was imprisoned in 1968 during the Cultural Revolution; he would not see his father again until 1972. Without the protection of his father, Xi was sent to work in Liangjiahe Village, Wen'anyi Town, Yanchuan County, Yan'an, Shaanxi, in 1969 in Mao Zedong's Down to the Countryside Movement.\nAfter a few months, unable to stand rural life, he ran away to Beijing. He was arrested during a crackdown on deserters from the countryside and sent to a work camp to dig ditches. He later became the Party branch secretary of the production team, leaving that post in 1975. When asked later about this experience by Chinese state television, Xi recalled, \"It was emotional. It was a mood. And when the ideals of the Cultural Revolution could not be realised, it proved an illusion.\"\n\nFrom 1975 to 1979, Xi studied chemical engineering at Beijing's Tsinghua University as a \"Worker-Peasant-Soldier student\". There engineering majors spent about one-fifth of their time studying Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong thought, doing farm work and \"learning from the People's Liberation Army\".\n\nFrom 1979 to 1982, Xi served as secretary for his father's former subordinate Geng Biao, the then vice premier and secretary-general of the Central Military Commission. This gained Xi some military background. In 1985, as part of a Chinese delegation to study U.S. agriculture, he stayed in the home of an American family in the town of Muscatine, Iowa. This trip, and his two-week stay with a U.S. family, is said to have had a lasting impression upon him and his views on the United States.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2002, he studied Marxist philosophy and ideological education in an \"on-the-job\" postgraduate programme at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, again at Tsinghua University. He obtained a Doctor of Law (LLD) degree covering the fields of law, politics, management, and revolutionary history.\n\nXi joined the Communist Youth League of China in 1971. In 1973 he applied to join the Communist Party of China 10 times and was finally accepted on his tenth attempt in 1974. In 1982, he was sent to Zhengding County in Hebei as deputy party secretary of Zhengding County. He was promoted in 1983 to secretary, becoming the top official of the county. Xi subsequently served in four provinces during his regional political career: Hebei (1982–1985), Fujian (1985–2002), Zhejiang (2002–2007), and Shanghai (2007).\nXi held posts in the Fuzhou Municipal Party Committee and became the president of the Party School in Fuzhou in 1990. In 1997, he was named an alternate member of the 15th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China. However, of the 151 alternate members of the Central Committee elected at the 15th Party Congress, Xi received the lowest number of votes in favour, placing him last in the rankings of members, ostensibly due to his status as a princeling.\n\nIn 1999, he was promoted to the office of Vice Governor of Fujian, then he became governor a year later. In Fujian, Xi made efforts to attract investment from Taiwan and to strengthen the private sector of the provincial economy. In February 2000, he and then-provincial Party Secretary Chen Mingyi were called before the top members of the Party Central Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China – General Secretary Jiang Zemin, Premier Zhu Rongji, Vice-President Hu Jintao and Discipline Inspection Secretary Wei Jianxing – to explain aspects of the Yuanhua scandal.\n\nIn 2002, Xi left Fujian and took up leading political positions in neighbouring Zhejiang. He eventually took over as provincial party chief after several months as acting governor, occupying a top provincial office for the first time in his career. In 2002, he was elected a full member of the 16th Central Committee, marking his ascension to the national stage. While in Zhejiang, Xi presided over reported growth rates averaging 14% per year. His career in Zhejiang was marked by a tough and straightforward stance against corrupt officials. This earned him a name in the national media and drew the attention of China's top leaders.\n\nFollowing the dismissal of Shanghai Party Chief Chen Liangyu in September 2006 due to a social security fund scandal, Xi was transferred to Shanghai in March 2007 to become the party chief there. He spent only seven months in Shanghai, but his appointment to one of the most important regional posts in China sent a clear signal that he was highly regarded by China's top leadership. In Shanghai, Xi avoided controversy and was known for strictly observing party discipline. For example, Shanghai administrators attempted to earn favour with him by arranging a special train to shuttle him between Shanghai and Hangzhou for him to complete handing off his work to his successor as Zhejiang party chief Zhao Hongzhu. However, Xi reportedly refused to take the train, citing a loosely enforced party regulation which stipulated that special trains can only be reserved for \"national leaders\". While in Shanghai, he worked on preserving unity of the local party organisation. He pledged there would be no 'purges' during his administration, despite the fact many local officials were thought to have been implicated in the Chen Liangyu corruption scandal. On most issues Xi largely echoed the line of the central leadership.\n\nXi was appointed to the nine-man Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China at the 17th Party Congress in October 2007. He was ranked above Li Keqiang, an indication that he was going to succeed Hu Jintao as China's next leader. In addition, Xi also held the top-ranking membership of the Communist Party's Central Secretariat. This assessment was further supported at the 11th National People's Congress in March 2008, when Xi was elected as vice-president of the People's Republic of China.\nFollowing his elevation, Xi has held a broad range of portfolios. He was put in charge of the comprehensive preparations for the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, as well as being the central government's leading figure in Hong Kong and Macau affairs. In addition, he also became the new president of the Central Party School of the Communist Party of China, the cadre-training and ideological education wing of the Communist Party. In the wake of the 2008 Sichuan earthquake, Xi visited disaster areas in Shaanxi and Gansu. He made his first foreign trip as vice president to North Korea, Mongolia, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Yemen from 17 to 25 June 2008. After the Olympics, Xi was assigned the post of committee chair for the preparations of the 60th Anniversary Celebrations of the founding of the People's Republic of China. He was also reportedly at the helm of a top-level Communist Party committee dubbed the 6521 Project, which was charged with ensuring social stability during a series of politically sensitive anniversaries in 2009.\n\nXi is considered one of the most successful members of the Crown Prince Party, a quasi-clique of politicians who are descendants of early Chinese Communist revolutionaries. Former prime minister of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, when asked about Xi, said he felt he was \"a thoughtful man who has gone through many trials and tribulations.\" Lee also commented: \"I would put him in the Nelson Mandela class of persons. A person with enormous emotional stability who does not allow his personal misfortunes or sufferings affect his judgment. In other words, he is impressive\". Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson described Xi as \"the kind of guy who knows how to get things over the goal line.\" Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said that Xi \"has sufficient reformist, party and military background to be very much his own man.\" Former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton tweeted, \"Xi hosting a meeting on women's rights at the UN while persecuting feminists? Shameless.\"\n\nIn February 2009, in his capacity as vice-president, Xi Jinping embarked on a tour of Latin America, visiting Mexico, Jamaica, Colombia, Venezuela, and Brazil to promote Chinese ties in the region and boost the country's reputation in the wake of the global financial crisis. He also visited Valletta, Malta, before returning to China.\n\nOn 11 February, while visiting Mexico, Xi spoke in front of a group of overseas Chinese and explained China's contributions to the financial crisis, saying that it was \"the greatest contribution towards the whole of human race, made by China, to prevent its 1.3 billion people from hunger\". He went on to remark: \"There are some bored foreigners, with full stomachs, who have nothing better to do than point fingers at us. First, China doesn't export revolution; second, China doesn't export hunger and poverty; third, China doesn't come and cause you headaches. What more is there to be said?\" The story was reported on some local television stations. The news led to a flood of discussions on Chinese Internet forums. It was reported that the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs was caught off-guard by Xi's remarks, as the actual video was shot by some accompanying Hong Kong reporters and broadcast on Hong Kong TV, which then turned up on various Internet video websites.\n\nXi continued his international trips, some say to burnish his foreign affairs credentials prior to taking the helm of China's leadership. In the European Union, Xi visited Belgium, Germany, Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania from 7 October to 21 2009. He visited Japan, South Korea, Cambodia, and Myanmar on his Asian trip from 14 to 22 December 2009.\n\nXi visited the United States, Ireland and Turkey in February 2012. This visit included meeting with then U.S. President Barack Obama at the White House and then Vice President Joe Biden; and stops in California and Iowa, where he met with the family which previously hosted him during his 1985 tour as a Hebei provincial official.\n\nA few months before his ascendancy to the party leadership, Xi disappeared from official media coverage for several weeks beginning on 1 September 2012. On 4 September, he cancelled a meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and later also cancelled meetings with Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and a top Russian official. It was said that Xi effectively \"went on strike\" in preparation for the power transition in order to install political allies in key roles. \"The Washington Post\" reported that Xi may have been injured in an altercation during a meeting of the \"red second generation\" which turned violent.\n\nOn 15 November 2012, Xi was elected to the post of general secretary of the Communist Party and chairman of the CPC Central Military Commission by the 18th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China. This made him, informally, the paramount leader and the first to be born in the People's Republic of China and not a preceding Chinese state. The following day Xi led the new line-up of the Politburo Standing Committee onto the stage in their first public appearance. The new Standing Committee reduced its number of seats from nine to seven, with only Xi himself and Li Keqiang retaining their seats from the previous Standing Committee; the remaining members were new. In a marked departure from the common practice of Chinese leaders, Xi's first speech as general secretary was plainly worded and did not include any political slogans or mention of his predecessors. Xi mentioned the aspirations of the average person, remarking, \"Our people ... expect better education, more stable jobs, better income, more reliable social security, medical care of a higher standard, more comfortable living conditions, and a more beautiful environment.\" Xi also vowed to tackle corruption at the highest levels, alluding that it would threaten the Party's survival; he was reticent about far-reaching economic reforms.\n\nIn December 2012, Xi visited Guangdong in his first trip outside Beijing since taking the Party leadership. The overarching theme of the trip was to call for further economic reform and a strengthened military. Xi visited the statue of Deng Xiaoping and his trip was described as following in the footsteps of Deng's own southern trip in 1992, which provided the impetus for further economic reforms in China after conservative party leaders stalled many of Deng's reforms in the aftermath of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. On his trip, Xi consistently alluded to his signature slogan the \"Chinese Dream\". \"This dream can be said to be the dream of a strong nation. And for the military, it is a dream of a strong military\", Xi told sailors. Xi's trip was significant in that he departed from the established convention of Chinese leaders' travel routines in multiple ways. Rather than dining out, Xi and his entourage ate regular hotel buffet. He travelled in a large van with his colleagues rather than a fleet of limousines, and did not restrict traffic on the parts of the highway he travelled.\n\nXi was elected President of the People's Republic of China on 14 March 2013, in a confirmation vote by the 12th National People's Congress in Beijing. He received 2,952 for, one vote against, and three abstentions. He replaced Hu Jintao, who retired after serving two terms. In his new capacity as president, on 16 March 2013 Xi expressed support for non-interference in China–Sri Lanka relations amid a United Nations Security Council vote to condemn that country over government abuses during the Sri Lankan Civil War. On 17 March, Xi and his new ministers arranged a meeting with the chief executive of Hong Kong, CY Leung, confirming his support for Leung. Within hours of his election, Xi discussed cyber security and North Korea with U.S. President Barack Obama over the phone. Obama announced the visits of treasury and state secretaries Jacob Lew and John F. Kerry to China the following week. Within a week of assuming the presidency, Xi embarked on a trip to Russia, Tanzania, South Africa, and the Republic of Congo.\n\nIn November 2013, at the conclusion of the Third Plenum of the 18th Central Committee, the Communist Party delivered a far-reaching reform agenda that alluded to changes in both economic and social policy. Xi signaled at the plenum that he was consolidating control of the massive internal security organization that was formerly the domain of Zhou Yongkang. A new National Security Commission was formed with Xi at its helm. The Central Leading Group for Comprehensively Deepening Reforms—another ad-hoc policy coordination body led by Xi—was also formed to oversee the implementation of the reform agenda.\nTermed \"comprehensive deepening reforms\" (), they were said to be the most significant since Deng Xiaoping's 1992 \"Southern Tour\". In the economic realm, the plenum announced that \"market forces\" would begin to play a \"decisive\" role in allocating resources. This meant that the state would gradually reduce its involvement in the distribution of capital, and restructure state-owned enterprises to allow further competition, potentially by attracting foreign and private sector players in industries that were previously highly regulated. This policy aimed to address the bloated state sector that had unduly profited from an earlier round of re-structuring by purchasing assets at below-market prices, assets which were no longer being used productively. The plenum also resolved to abolish the \"laogai\" system of \"re-education through labour\" which was largely seen as a blot on China's human rights record. The system has faced significant criticism for years from domestic critics and foreign observers. The one-child policy was also abolished, resulting in a shift to a two-child policy from 1 January 2016.\n\nIn December 2013, Xi arrived unannounced at a small Beijing restaurant to have steamed buns for lunch, with only one person accompanying him. He paid for the meal himself and dined with regular patrons. Xi was applauded for the 'common touch' of the visit, and images were circulated widely on social media.\n\nXi vowed to crack down on corruption almost immediately after he ascended to power at the 18th Party Congress. In his inaugural speech as general secretary, Xi mentioned that fighting corruption was one of the toughest challenges for the party. A few months into his term, Xi outlined the \"eight-point guide\", listing rules intended to curb corruption and waste during official party business; it aimed at stricter discipline on the conduct of party officials. Xi also vowed to root out \"tigers and flies\", that is, high-ranking officials and ordinary party functionaries. During the first two years of Xi's term, he initiated cases against former Central Military Commission vice-chairman Xu Caihou, former Politburo Standing Committee member and security chief Zhou Yongkang and former Hu Jintao chief aide Ling Jihua.\nAlong with new disciplinary chief Wang Qishan, Xi's administration spearheaded the formation of \"centrally-dispatched inspection teams\" (). These were essentially cross-jurisdictional squads of officials whose main task was to gain more in-depth understanding of the operations of provincial and local party organizations, and in the process, also enforce party discipline mandated by Beijing. Many of the work teams also had the effect of identifying and initiating investigations of high-ranking officials. Over one hundred provincial-ministerial level officials were implicated during a massive nationwide anti-corruption campaign. These included former and current regional officials (Su Rong, Bai Enpei, Wan Qingliang), leading figures of state-owned enterprises and central government organs (Song Lin, Liu Tienan), and highly ranked generals in the military (Gu Junshan). In June 2014, the Shanxi provincial political establishment was decimated, with four officials dismissed within a week from the provincial party organization's top ranks. Within the first two years of the campaign alone, over 200,000 low-ranking officials received warnings, fines, and demotions.\n\nPolitical observers have called Xi the most powerful Chinese leader since Mao Zedong, especially since the ending of presidential two-term limits in 2018. Xi has notably departed from the collective leadership practices of his post-Mao predecessors. He has centralised his power and created working groups with himself at the head to subvert government bureaucracy, making himself become the unmistakable central figure of the new administration.\nBeginning in 2013, the party under Xi has created a series of new \"Central Leading Groups\". These are supra-ministerial steering committees, designed to bypass existing institutions when making decisions, and ostensibly make policy-making a more efficient process. The most notable new body is the Central Leading Group for Comprehensively Deepening Reforms. It has broad jurisdiction over economic restructuring and social reforms, and is said to have displaced some of the power previously held by the State Council and its premier. Xi also became the leader of the Central Leading Group for Internet Security and Informatization, in charge of cyber-security and Internet policy. The Third Plenum held in 2013 also saw the creation of the National Security Commission of the Communist Party of China, another body chaired by Xi. This is believed to have ultimate oversight over issues of national security such as combating terrorism, intelligence, espionage, ultimately incorporating many areas of jurisdiction formerly vested in the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission under Zhou Yongkang.\n\nXi has also been active in his participation in military affairs, taking a direct hands-on approach to military reform. In addition to being the Chairman of the Central Military Commission, and the leader of the Central Leading Group for Military Reform founded in 2014 to oversee comprehensive military reforms, Xi has delivered numerous high-profile pronouncements vowing to clean up malfeasance and complacency in the military, aiming to build a more effective fighting force. In addition, Xi held the \"New Gutian Conference\" in 2014, gathering China's top military officers, re-emphasizing the principle of \"the party has absolute control over the army\" first established by Mao at the 1929 Gutian Conference. According to a University of California, San Diego expert on Chinese military, Xi \"has been able to take political control of the military to an extent that exceeds what Mao and Deng have done\".\nOn 21 April 2016 Xi was named commander-in-chief of the country's new Joint Operations Command Center of the People's Liberation Army by Xinhua news agency and the broadcaster China Central Television. Some analysts interpreted this move as an attempt to display strength and strong leadership and as being more \"political than military\". According to Ni Lexiong, a military affairs expert, Xi \"not only controls the military but also does it in an absolute manner, and that in wartime, he is ready to command personally\".\n\nXi has had a cult of personality constructed around himself since entering office \"with books, cartoons, pop songs and even dance routines\" honouring his rule. Following Xi's ascension to the leadership core of the CPC, he has been referred to as \"Xi Dada\" (Uncle or Papa Xi). The village of Liangjiahe, where Xi was sent to work, has become a \"modern-day shrine\" decorated with Communist propaganda and murals extolling the formative years of his life.\n\nThe party under Xi announced a raft of legal reforms at the Fourth Plenum held in the fall 2014, and he called for \"Chinese socialistic rule of law\" immediately afterwards. The party aimed to reform the legal system which had been perceived as ineffective at delivering justice and affected by corruption, local government interference and lack of constitutional oversight. The plenum, while emphasizing the absolute leadership of the party, also called for a greater role of the constitution in the affairs of state and a strengthening of the role of the National People's Congress Standing Committee in interpreting the constitution. It also called for more transparency in legal proceedings, more involvement of ordinary citizens in the legislative process, and an overall \"professionalization\" of the legal workforce. The party also planned to institute cross-jurisdictional circuit legal tribunals as well as giving provinces consolidated administrative oversight over lower level legal resources, which is intended to reduce local government involvement in legal proceedings.\n\nXi made his first foreign trip as president to Russia on 22 March 2013, about a week after he assumed the office. He met with President Vladimir Putin and the two leaders discussed trade and energy issues. He then went on to Tanzania, South Africa (where he attended the BRICS summit in Durban), and the Republic of the Congo. Xi visited the United States at Sunnylands Estate in California in a 'shirtsleeves summit' with U.S. President Barack Obama in June 2013, although this was not considered a formal state visit. In October 2013 Xi attended the APEC Summit in Bali, Indonesia.\n\nIn March 2014 Xi made a trip to Western Europe visiting the Netherlands, where he attended the Nuclear Security Summit in The Hague, followed by visits to France, Germany and Belgium. He made a state visit to South Korea on 4 July 2014 and met with South Korean President Park Geun-hye. Between 14 and 23 July, Xi attended the BRICS leaders' summit in Brazil and visited Argentina, Venezuela, and Cuba.\nXi went on an official state visit to India and met with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September 2014; he visited New Delhi and also went to Modi's hometown in the state of Gujarat. He went on a state visit to Australia and met with Prime Minister Tony Abbott in November 2014, followed by a visit to the island nation of Fiji. Xi visited Pakistan in April 2015, signing a series of infrastructure deals related to the China–Pakistan Economic Corridor. He then headed to Jakarta and Bandung, Indonesia, to attend the Afro-Asian Leaders Summit and the 60th Anniversary events of the Bandung Conference. Xi visited Russia and was the guest-of-honour of Russian president Vladimir Putin at the 2015 Moscow Victory Day Parade to mark the 70th Anniversary of the victory of the allies in Europe. At the parade Xi and his wife Peng Liyuan sat next to Putin. On the same trip Xi also visited Kazakhstan and met with that country's president Nursultan Nazarbayev, and also met Alexander Lukashenko in Belarus.\nIn September 2015, Xi made his first state visit to the United States.\nIn October 2015, he made a state visit to the United Kingdom, the first by a Chinese leader in a decade. This followed a visit to China in March 2015 by the Duke of Cambridge. During the state visit, Xi met Queen Elizabeth II, British Prime Minister David Cameron and other dignitaries. Increased customs, trade and research collaborations between China and the UK were discussed, but more informal events also took place including a visit to Manchester City's football academy.\n\nIn March 2016, Xi visited the Czech Republic on his way to United States. In Prague, he met with the Czech president, prime minister and other representatives to promote relations and economic cooperation between the Czech Republic and the People's Republic of China. His visit was met by a considerable number of protests by Czechs.\nIn January 2017, Xi became the first Chinese president to plan to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos. On January 17, Xi addressed the forum in a high-profile keynote, addressing globalization, the global trade agenda, and China's rising place in the world's economy and international governance; he made a series of pledges about China's defense of \"economic globalization\" and climate change accords. Premier Li Keqiang attended the forum in 2015 and Vice-President Li Yuanchao did so in 2016. During the three-day state visit to the country in 2017 Xi also visited the World Health Organization, the United Nations and the International Olympic Committee.\n\nAs communist ideology plays a less central role in the lives of the masses in the People's Republic of China, top political leaders of the Communist Party of China such as Xi continue the rehabilitation of ancient Chinese philosophical figures like Han Fei into the mainstream of Chinese thought alongside Confucianism, both of which Xi sees as relevant. \"He who rules by virtue is like the Pole Star,\" he said at a meeting of officials last year, quoting Confucius. \"It maintains its place, and the multitude of stars pay homage.\" In Shandong, the Birthplace of Confucius, he told scholars that while the West was suffering a \"crisis of confidence,\" the Communist Party had been \"the loyal inheritor and promoter of China's outstanding traditional culture.\"\n\nHan Fei gained new prominence with favourable citations. One sentence of Han Fei's that Xi quoted appeared thousands of times in official Chinese media at the local, provincial, and national levels.\n\nIn March 2018, the party-controlled National People's Congress passed a set of constitutional amendments including removal of term limits for the president and vice president, the creation of a National Supervisory Commission, as well as enhancing the central role of the Communist Party. On 17 March 2018, the Chinese legislature reappointed Xi as president, now without term limits; Wang Qishan was appointed vice president. The following day Li Keqiang was reappointed premier and longtime allies of Xi Xu Qiliang and Zhang Youxia were voted in as vice-chairmen of the state military commission. Foreign minister Wang Yi was promoted to state councillor and General Wei Fenghe was named defence minister.\n\nAccording to the \"Financial Times\", Xi expressed his views of constitutional amendment at meetings with Chinese officials and foreign dignitaries. Xi explained the decision in terms of needing to align two more powerful posts—General Secretary of the Communist Party and Chairman of the Central Military Commission (CMC)—which have no term limits. However, Xi did not say whether he intended to serve as party general secretary, CMC chairman and state president, for three or more terms.\n\nXi and Communist Party ideologues coined the phrase \"Chinese Dream\" to describe his overarching plans for China as its leader. Xi first used the phrase during a high-profile visit to the National Museum of China on 29 November 2012, where he and his Standing Committee colleagues were attending a \"national revival\" exhibition. Since then, the phrase has become the signature political slogan of the Xi era. Since 2013, the phrase has emerged as the distinctive quasi-official ideology of the party leadership under Xi, much as the \"Scientific Outlook on Development\" was for Hu Jintao and the \"Three Represents\" was for Jiang Zemin. The origin of the term \"Chinese Dream\" is unclear. While the phrase has been used before by journalists and scholars, some publications have posited the term likely drew its inspiration from the concept of the American Dream. \"The Economist\" noted the abstract and seemingly accessible nature of the concept with no specific overarching policy stipulations may be a deliberate departure from the jargon-heavy ideologies of his predecessors.\nWhile the Chinese Dream was originally interpreted as an extension of the American Dream, which emphasises individual self-improvement and opportunity, the slogan's use in official settings since 2013 has taken on a noticeably more nationalistic character, with official pronouncements of the \"Dream\" being consistently linked with the phrase \"great revival of the Chinese nation\". The policy implications of the \"Chinese Dream\" remain unclear.\n\nIn September 2017, the Communist Party Central Committee decided that Xi's political philosophies, generally referred to as \"Xi Jinping Thought\" by western sources, would become part of the Party Constitution.\n\nXi first made mention of the \"Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era\" in his opening day speech delivered to the 19th Party Congress in October 2017. His Politburo Standing Committee colleagues, in their own reviews of Xi's keynote address at the Congress, prepended the name \"Xi Jinping\" in front of \"Thought\".\n\nXi himself has described the Thought as part of the broad framework created around Socialism with Chinese Characteristics, a Dengist term that places China in the \"primary stage of socialism\". In official party documentation and pronouncements by Xi's colleagues, the Thought is said to be a continuation of Marxism–Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, the \"Three Represents\", and the Scientific Development Perspective, as part of a series of guiding ideologies that embody \"Marxism adopted to Chinese conditions\" and contemporary considerations.\n\nOn 24 October 2017, at its closing session, the 19th Party Congress approved the incorporation of Xi Jinping Thought into the Constitution of the Communist Party of China.\n\nThe concepts and context behind Xi Jinping Thought are elaborated in Xi's \"The Governance of China\" book series, published by the Foreign Languages Press for an international audience. Volume one was published in September 2014, followed by volume two in November 2017.\n\nXi has reportedly taken a hard-line on security issues as well as foreign affairs, projecting a more nationalistic and assertive China on the world stage. His political program calls for a China more united and confident of its own value system and political structure.\n\nUnder Xi China has also taken a more critical stance on North Korea, while improving relationships with South Korea. China–Japan relations have soured under Xi's administration; the most thorny issue between the two countries remains the dispute over the Senkaku/Diaoyu islands. In response to Japan's continued robust stance on the issue, China declared an Air Defense Identification Zone in November 2013.\n\nXi has called China–United States relations in the contemporary world a \"new type of great-power relations\", a phrase the Obama administration had been reluctant to embrace. Under his administration the Strategic and Economic Dialogue that began under Hu Jintao has continued. On China-U.S. relations, Xi said, \"If [China and the United States] are in confrontation, it would surely spell disaster for both countries\". The U.S. has been critical of Chinese actions in the South China Sea. In 2014, Chinese hackers compromised the computer system of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, resulting in the theft of approximately 22 million personnel records handled by the office.\n\nXi has cultivated stronger relations with Russia, particularly in the wake of the Ukraine crisis of 2014. He seems to have developed a strong personal relationship with President Vladimir Putin. Both are viewed as strong leaders with a nationalist orientation who are not afraid to assert themselves against Western interests. Xi attended the opening ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. Under Xi, China signed a $400 billion gas deal with Russia; China has also become Russia's largest trading partner.\n\nHe has signaled a greater interest in Central Asia as evidenced by China's One Belt One Road initiative. Xi made the announcement while in Astana, Kazakhstan, and called it a \"golden opportunity\".\nXi has also indirectly spoken out critically on the U.S. \"strategic pivot\" to Asia. Addressing a regional conference in Shanghai on 21 May 2014, he called on Asian countries to unite and forge a way together, rather than get involved with third party powers, seen as a reference to the United States. \"Matters in Asia ultimately must be taken care of by Asians. Asia's problems ultimately must be resolved by Asians and Asia's security ultimately must be protected by Asians\", he told the conference.\n\nIn November 2014, in a major policy address, Xi called for a decrease in the use of force, preferring dialogue and consultation to solve the current issues plaguing the relationship between China and its South East Asian neighbors. In April 2015 Xi led a large delegation on a state visit to Pakistan. During this visit he signed energy and infrastructure deals worth $45 billion including the China–Pakistan Economic Corridor. Pakistan's highest civilian award, the Nishan-e-Pakistan, was conferred upon him.\n\nIn April 2015, new satellite imagery revealed that China was rapidly constructing an airfield on Fiery Cross Reef in the Spratly Islands of the South China Sea. In May 2015, U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter warned the government of Xi Jinping to halt its rapid island-building in disputed territory in the South China Sea.\nIn spite of what seemed to be a tumultuous start to Xi Jinping's leadership vis-à-vis the United-States, on 13 May 2017 Xi said at the \"Belt and Road Forum\" in Beijing: \"We should foster a new type of international relations featuring 'win-win cooperation', and we should forge a partnership of dialogue with no confrontation, and a partnership of friendship rather than alliance. All countries should respect each other's sovereignty, dignity and territorial integrity; respect each other's development path and its social systems, and respect each other's core interests and major concerns ... What we hope to create is a big family of harmonious coexistence.\"\n\nEarly on in his term, Xi repeatedly issued pronouncements on the supremacy of the Communist Party, largely echoing Deng Xiaoping's line that effective economic reform can only take place within the one-party political framework. In his view, the Communist Party is the legitimate, constitutionally-sanctioned ruling party of China, and that the party derives this legitimacy through advancing the Mao-style \"Mass Line Campaign\"; that is the party represents the interests of the overwhelming majority of ordinary people. In this vein, Xi called for officials to practise mild self-criticism in order to appear less corrupt and more popular among the people.\n\nXi's position has been described as preferring highly centralized political power as a means to direct large-scale economic restructuring. Xi believes that China should be 'following its own path' and that a strong authoritarian government is an integral part of the \"China model\", operating on a \"core socialist value system\", which has been interpreted as China's alternative to Western values. However, Xi and his colleagues acknowledge the challenges to the legitimacy of Communist rule, particularly corruption by party officials. The answer, according to Xi's programme, is two-fold: strengthen the party from within, by streamlining strict party discipline and initiating a large anti-corruption campaign to remove unsavoury elements from within the party, and re-instituting the Mass Line Campaign externally to make party officials better understand and serve the needs of ordinary people. Xi believes that, just as the party must be at the apex of political control of the state, the party's central authorities (i.e., the Politburo, PSC, or himself as general secretary) must exercise full and direct political control of all party activities.\n\nXi's policies have been characterized as \"economically liberal but politically conservative\" by Cheng Li of the Brookings Institution.\n\n\"Document No. 9\" is a confidential internal document widely circulated within the Communist Party of China in 2013 by the party's General Office. It was first published in July 2012. The document warns of seven dangerous Western values: constitutional democracy, universal values of human rights, civil society, pro-market neo-liberalism, media independence, historical nihilism (criticisms of past errors) and questioning the nature of Chinese style socialism. Coverage of these topics in educational materials is forbidden. The release of this internal document, which has introduced new topics that were previously not \"off-limits\", was seen as Xi's recognition of the \"sacrosanct\" nature of Communist Party rule over China.\n\nSince Xi became the General Secretary of the CPC censorship has been \"significantly stepped up\". Chairing the 2018 China Cyberspace Governance Conference on 20 and 21 April 2018, Xi committed to \"fiercely crack down on criminal offenses including hacking, telecom fraud, and violation of citizens' privacy\". His administration has also overseen more Internet restrictions imposed in China, and is described as being \"stricter across the board\" on speech than previous administrations. Xi's term has resulted in a further suppression of dissent from civil society. His term has seen the arrest and imprisonment of activists such as Xu Zhiyong, as well as numerous others who identified with the New Citizens' Movement. Prominent legal activist Pu Zhiqiang of the Weiquan movement was also arrested and detained. The situation for users of Weibo has been described as a change from fearing that individual posts would be deleted, or at worst one's account, to fear of arrest. A law enacted in September 2013 authorized a three-year prison term for bloggers who shared more than 500 times any content considered \"defamatory\". The State Internet Information Department summoned a group of influential bloggers to a seminar instructing them to avoid writing about politics, the Communist Party, or making statements contradicting official narratives. Many bloggers stopped writing about controversial topics, and Weibo went into decline, with much of its readership shifting to WeChat users speaking to very limited social circles.\n\nIn July 2017, the character Winnie-the-Pooh was blocked on Chinese social media sites because bloggers had been comparing the plump bear to Xi. This followed an incident where Chinese authorities censored a nine-year-old for comments about Xi's weight.\n\nIn the 19th Party Congress held in 2017, Xi reaffirmed six of the nine principles that had been affirmed continuously since the 16th Party Congress in 2002, with the notable exception of \"Placing hopes on the Taiwan people as a force to help bring about unification\". According to the Brookings Institution, Xi used stronger language on potential Taiwan independence than his predecessors towards previous DPP governments in Taiwan. In March 2018, Xi said that Taiwan would face the \"punishment of history\".\n\nXi married Ke Lingling, the daughter of Ke Hua, an ambassador to Britain in the early 1980s. They divorced within a few years. The two were said to fight \"almost every day\", and after the divorce Ke moved to England.\n\nXi married the prominent Chinese folk singer Peng Liyuan in 1987. Peng Liyuan, a household name in China, was better known to the public than Xi until his political elevation. The couple frequently lived apart due largely to their separate professional lives. Xi and Peng have a daughter named Xi Mingze, who graduated from Harvard University in the spring of 2015. While at Harvard, she used a pseudonym and studied psychology and English. Xi's family have a home in Jade Spring Hill, a garden and residential area in north-western Beijing run by the Central Military Commission.\n\nPeng described Xi as hardworking and down-to-earth: \"When he comes home, I've never felt as if there's some leader in the house. In my eyes, he's just my husband.\" Peng has played a much more visible role as China's \"first lady\" compared to her predecessors; for example, Peng hosted U.S. First Lady Michelle Obama on her high-profile visit to China in March 2014. Xi was described in a 2011 \"The Washington Post\" article by those who know him as \"pragmatic, serious, cautious, hard-working, down to earth and low-key\". He was described as a good hand at problem solving and \"seemingly uninterested in the trappings of high office\". He is known to love U.S. films such as \"Saving Private Ryan\", \"The Departed\" and \"The Godfather\". He also praised the independent film-maker Jia Zhangke.\n\nIn June 2012, \"Bloomberg\" reported that members of Xi's extended family have substantial business interests, although there was no evidence he had intervened to assist them. The \"Bloomberg\" website was blocked in mainland China in response to the article. Since Xi embarked on an anti-corruption campaign, \"The New York Times\" reported members of his family were selling their corporate and real estate investments beginning in 2012.\n\nRelatives of highly placed Chinese officials, including seven current and former senior leaders of the Politburo of the Communist Party of China, have been named in the Panama Papers, including Deng Jiagui, Xi's brother-in-law. Deng had two shell companies in the British Virgin Islands while Xi was a member of the Politburo Standing Committee, but they were dormant by the time Xi became general secretary of the Communist Party in November 2012.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31486104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31486104", "title": "Zakir Mammadov", "text": "Zakir Mammadov\n\nZakir Jabbar Bey oglu Mammadov (Azerbaijani: Məmmədov Zakir Cabbar bəy oğlu) - Correspondent member (associate member) of Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences, doctor in philosophy.\n\nCorrespondent member (associate member) of Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences, doctor in philosophy, Mammadov dealt with issues history of Eastern philosophy, especially history of Azerbaijani philosophy and wrote works in this field during his scientific activities for approximately forty years. The scholar refuted the thesis ‘no professional philosopher lived in Azerbaijan in Middle Ages except for Bahmanyar’ and analyzed by exposing the richness of our national legacy. Herewith he became a researcher of our national legacy.\n\nMammadov was born in village Seyidli of Agdam on August 16, 1936. His mother was Husnu Murtuza bey qizi Mammadbeyova, and his father Jabbar bey Ismayil bey oglu Valibeyov. Jabbar bey was descendant of Baharli tribe and prominent intellectual of his age. Jabbar owned vast lands, engaged in teaching by establishing school at his home and founded new kind of school.\n\nJabbar bey underwent repression, was exiled into Siberia like hundreds of intellectuals. When he was arrested, all documents and books at Jabbar bey's home were seized. Therefore, Mammadov's birth certificate was lost. Afterwards he was given birth certificate by village council that he had been born in 1939.\n\nMammadov grew up under political persecution and that's why he shifted to his mother's surname. It is known that after establishment of soviet authority majority of people descending from ‘Bey ’ ancestry were issued passport by cutting ‘Bey’ ending in their surnames. Therefore, his last name was Mammadov, not Mammadbeyov.\n\nMammadov graduated from secondary school No.1 of Agdam earning medal and entered Arabic philology section, recently established within Faculty of Oriental Studies of Azerbaijan State University (now Baku State University). While Mammadov was first year student, i.e. on 29 November 1957 his father Jabbar bey was exonerated by the decision of Supreme Court of Azerbaijan SSR.\n\nWhile studying at university he was awarded certificate of merit by Az.LKGI for excellence in education and public work. He published verses and translations from Arabic on university newspaper with large editions. Having learnt Arabic from Alasgar Mammadov, great personality, polyglot scholar, and founder of Arabic studies in Azerbaijan, Mammadov graduated from university in 1962.\n\nIn August of that year Mammadov embarked on working as junior research fellow in Institute of Oriental Studies of ANAS. From September 1962 to September 1963 he was the first Azerbaijani interpreter who worked in construction of Aswan dam in Egypt (UAR). Having learnt local dialect in a year he also collected rich scientific literature in Arabic. Upon return to his motherland he started teaching Egyptian dialect first time in Azerbaijan State University (now Baku State University) and due to his scientific interest toward books obtained about Eastern philosophy began working in Philosophy section of Azerbaijan AS (now Institute of Philosophy and Law of ANAS).\n\nMammadov died on March 2, 2003. Mammadov's life and writings were broadly depicted in Orkhan Mammadov's book titled ‘Agdam’s renowned pedagogues and scholars’. At the same time more than thirty articles about Mammadov's scientific activities were published in periodical press. Khatira Guliyeva published a monograph called ‘Great Azerbaijani philosopher Mammadov (Baharli)’ with reference to his life and writings.\n\nMammadov attained philosophical specialty ‘science of the sciences’ in Azerbaijani language and Arabic philology through working present-day Institute of Philosophy and Law since January 1, 1964.\n\nHereby Mammadov revealed the richness of our national philosophical legacy thank to his knowledge of Eastern languages and philosophy, because till his researches it was supposed that no professional philosopher lived in the East, Bahmanyar who left few materials among his works in our hand is exception. Through approximately forty years Mammadov carried out explorations, revealed Azerbaijani philosophers’ and thinkers’ (who wrote in Eastern languages) rich legacy published in various countries of the world, as well as preserved as manuscript, worked out their philosophy (theory of existence and knowledge theory), logic, socio-political and ethical views.\n\nPhilosophy turned out to be ‘bondmaid of theology’ in Christian world in Middle Ages which is considered the age of ignorance and unawareness, there was not scientific philosophy, only scholasticism and mysticism were poorly spread. Mammadov proved that alongside with religious philosophy scientific philosophy existed in East and also Azerbaijan at that time. He found out that one of three essential scientific philosophical doctrines – Eastern Peripateticism was founded by Turkic philosopher Al-Farabi (873-950), the other two ones, Pantheism and Illuminationism were founded by Ayn al-Quzat Miyanedji (1099–1131) and Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi (1154–1191) respectively.\n\nDoctrines of skilful Azerbaijani philosophers became pattern for talented philosophers throughout ages in Moslem countries of the East by growing into philosophical schools. Their ideas didn’t confine to Islamic world and later spread across European countries as well.\n\nIn a word, history of world philosophy didn’t lack scientific philosophical vision owing to the East, particularly Azerbaijani philosophers in Middle Ages (for the duration of thousand years). All these were expressed by Mammadov in more than thirty books (published and not published) and 250 articles.\n\nIn 1969 Mammadov succeeded the defence of his postgraduate dissertation ‘Sirajeddin Urmavi’s logical views’ which he had completed in 1967. Although his doctoral thesis ‘11-13th Centuries Philosophical Thinking in Azerbaijan’, which had been completed in 1974 was published as a book in 1978, he accomplished the defence 16 years later.\n\nHaving founded the section for history of Eastern philosophy in 1997 Mammadov chaired the section till the end of his life. He was elected corresponding member (associate member) of Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences in 2001.\n\nMammadov worked in the post of academic editor (part-time) for Azerbaijan Soviet Encyclopaedia from 1969 to 1970, made efforts so that materials concerning our national philosophy were widely incorporated into encyclopaedia. Azerbaijan's professional philosophers were included in this ten volume work only attributable to him.\n\nMoreover, Mammadov engaged in pedagogical activities, taught philosophy, history of Azerbaijani philosophy and history of Eastern philosophy in higher education institutions. Mammadov was a member of expert council on ‘History, theology, philosophy, psychology and pedagogical sciences’ of High Attestation Commission under President of the Republic since 1997.\n\nBecause Mammadov's whole researches were based on primary sources, he did his utmost for bringing those works to Azerbaijan. Till his researches Bahmanyar's two small size treatises ‘The Subject of Metaphysics’ and ‘Degrees of Beings’ had been known. The researcher revealed his large size work ‘Education’ (Kitab at-tahsil). Due to his numerous requests from related organizations the treatise was brought into Azerbaijan. Thus the scholar incorporated the entire ‘Education’ into research first time.\n\nAlong with treatises ‘The Subject of Metaphysics’ and ‘Degrees of Beings’ Bahmanyar's ‘Education’ (Kitab at-tahsil) was fully translated into Azerbaijani. Small part of ‘Education’ (Kitab at-tahsil) and two other treatises were completely published in his book titled ‘Eastern philosophy (9-12th centuries)’ (BDU publishing, 1999).\n\nMammadov was acquiring the Eastern, especially Azerbaijani philosophers’ works, microfilms of unique manuscripts, printed copies mostly at the expense of his own and sometimes his friends’ allowances to order. In Azerbaijan he was the only scholar that researched the doctrines of Eastern philosophers comprehensively and extendedly on the basis of those sources. Besides researching the legacy of our world-famous philosophers he also sought for their public recognition.\n\nOn Mammadov's initiative the Presidium of Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences adopted decision on commemoration of 800th anniversary of Shihab al-Din Suhrawardi, the founder of Illuminationism on April 2, 1991. In accordance with this decision the jubilee of illuminationist philosopher was marked in Institute of Philosophy and Law (now Institute of Philosophy, Sociology and Law) on 25 December 1991.\n\nWhile Mammadov, the only researcher of Shihab al-Din Suhrawardi's philosophical legacy translated his numerous treatises into Azerbaijani, merely two of them were issued. The researcher translated Shihab al-Din Suhrawardi's ‘Philosophers’ creed ’ into Azerbaijani and Russian in cooperation with Tariyel Hasanov and this translation was published initially in 1986 and second time in 1999. By translating philosopher’s treatise ‘The Temples of Light (Hayakal al-Nur)’ Mammadov published it initially in 1989 and second time in 1999 with his own fund.\n\nUpon Z.Mammadov’s initiative the Presidium of Azerbaijan AS and Cabinet of Ministers adopted decision on the commemoration of the 1000th anniversary of Bahmanyār’s birth in 1993. On this occasion three scientific sessions were held in Institute of Philosophy and Law and conferences in a number of higher education institutions.\n\nUpon Mammadov’s initiative the Presidium of Azerbaijan AS adopted decision on the 800th anniversary of Sirajeddin Urmavi’s birth in 1998. He made up articles with regard to the 800th anniversary of Afzaladdin Xunaji and Sirajeddin Urmavi’s birth and to the 900th anniversary of Ayn al-Quzat Miyanedji and published them in journal and newspapers.\n\nMammadov attended a variety of scientific sessions, conferences in Baku, Tashkent, Samarkand, Fergana and Dushanbe. He gave a talk in 5th (1968) and 12th (1975) scientific sessions of Azerbaijan AS’s Coordination Council, academic conference dedicated to methodological issues and development history of Transcaucasian peoples’ medieval philosophy and session devoted to the 700th anniversary of Ottoman Empire (1999). He delivered speeches regarding the anniversaries of scientific and cultural coryphaeus – Al-Farabi, Avicenna, Nizami Ganjavi, Nasimi, Abbasgulu Bakikhanov, Mirza Fatali Akhundov, Muhammad al-Bukhari and Ahmad Fargani. He was elected member of State Jubilee Commission organizing the Nasir al-Din al-Tusi’s 800th anniversary.\n\n‘History of Azerbaijan Philosophy’, Mammadov's masterpiece of great importance among his writings is an outline of his researches concerning Azerbaijani philosophers’ and thinkers’ rich philosophical legacy revealed by him for more than thirty years. The book traces the development path of Azerbaijani philosophy's history. Ideological trends, doctrines, vision of their Azerbaijani proponents are analysed in the context of Eastern philosophical thinking. It is shown that though merely religious philosophy (mysticism and scholasticism) was spread in Christian world during feudalism, there existed non-religious philosophical doctrines such as pantheism and Illuminationism founded by Azerbaijani philosophers, as well as East Peripateticism in Muslim countries and these enriched philosophical history of the mankind.\n\nMammadov is the author of more than forty articles in ten-volume Azerbaijan Soviet Encyclopaedia, of second volume of ‘History of Azerbaijan’ in seven volumes (the chapter titled philosophy), of second volume of ‘History of Azerbaijani literature’ in six volumes, and of some articles in ‘Philosophical Encyclopaedic Dictionary’. He is the author of textbook called ‘Philosophy’ and syllabus ‘History of Philosophy’ taught at schools. Worshipper\n\n‘Eastern philosophy (11-12th centuries)’. (Baku, BSU publishing, 1999). Mammadov engaged in translation as well, translating first time into Azerbaijani language the pearls of the world philosophy - Yakub Kindi's treatise ‘The first philosophy ‘, excerpts from Abulhasan Askeri's work ‘Muslims’ views and the diversity in worshippers’ opinions’, Farabi's book ‘Meanings of the Intellect’, the physics part of Ibn Sina's ‘The Book of Knowledge (Danishnama-i alai)’, ‘The Book of Politics. Treatise on Ethics (Ilm-al-akhlaq)’, the logic excerpt of Bahmanyar's ‘Education Book’, treatises ‘Subject of Metaphysics’ and the ‘Degrees of Beings’, the excerpts from Gazzali's ‘Rescuer from Error (al-Munqidh min al-dalal)’ treatise, the extracts from Ayn al-Quzat Miyanedji's treatise ‘The essence of the truth’, selected excepts from Abu Hafs Umar al-Suhrawardi’s book ‘Contribution of the Knowledge’ and the other works and incorporated them to the collection ‘Eastern philosophy (11-12th centuries)’ (Baku, BSU publishing, 1999).\n\nMammadov's books were used by the scientists who wrote works not only in the field of philosophy, but also law, literature and history. His translations from medieval philosophers’ and thinkers’ works are within the sources for researchers’ studies.\n\n\n\n"}
