{"id": "40094256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40094256", "title": "2013 California prisoner hunger strike", "text": "2013 California prisoner hunger strike\n\nThe 2013 California prisoner hunger Strike started on July 8, 2013 involving over 29,000 inmates in protest of the state's use of solitary confinement practices and ended on September 5, 2013. The hunger strike was organized by inmates in long term solitary in the Security Housing Unit (SHU) at Pelican Bay State Prison in protest of inmates housed there that were in solitary confinement indefinitely for having ties to gangs. Another hunger strike that added to the movement started the week before in High Desert State Prison where the focus of their hunger strike was to demand cleaner facilities, better food and better access to the library.\n\nTriggered by the two month hunger strike, lawmakers agreed to hold public hearings on the conditions within California's maximum security prisons where this prolonged solitary confinement has taken place Following this announcement, a week later on September 4, 2013, there were 100 inmates in two prisons on a hunger strike; 40 of them had been on a hunger strike continuously since July 8. All remaining hunger strikers, in light of the lawmaker's promise, resumed eating on September 5, 2013.\n\nSolitary confinement in United States' prisons is the practice of detaining prisoners in a single cell for between 22 and 24 hours a day. The cell usually contains a concrete bed, a stationary stool and toilet sink combinations. Human Rights Watch, an independent organization that focuses on human rights, found that prolonged use of solitary confinement is inconsistent with respecting the inmates humanity. Human Rights Watch also found that prolonged use of solitary confinement can violate the 8th amendment, and in some cases be considered torture. Amnesty International, a global human rights NGO, voiced support the hunger striker's concerns as well as saying that California has fallen short of international law and the necessary standards for humane treatment due to California's use of solitary confinement. Two years prior to the California Prison Hunger Strike, in October 2011, UN Special Rapporteur on torture Juan E. Méndez said that solitary confinement must come to an end as it is a violation of human rights.\n\nPrisoners' attorneys and doctors expressed concern over the strikers' potential health risks. Prison officials, however, implemented inhumane tactics in an attempt to force prisoners to end their strike. Prisoners were denied access to their medications, and were denied medical oversight. Some of the prisoners were only refusing solid foods, and they were denied access to any liquid substance other than water. These cruel methods of punishment received an abundance of backlash from the medical community, and the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR) was heavily criticized. As a result, the plaintiffs in a class-action lawsuit about medical care in state prisons, the federal receiver in charge of prison health care and the CDCR jointly submitted a request to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on August 19, 2013, for an order authorizing the refeeding under specified conditions of inmate-patients who were participating in the hunger strike. Judge Thelton E. Henderson granted the order the same day. By the time the order was put into effect, the number of participants in the strike had dropped exponentially. There was less than 200 prisoners still fasting, and numerous others had been hospitalized. There was only one fatality from the strike. Billy \"Guero\" Sell died on July 22, 2013 after requesting medical attention for seven days leading up to his death.\n\nThe lawsuit, \"Todd Ashker, et al., vs. Governor of the State of California, et al.,\" was brought by 10 Pelican Bay State Prison inmates who were housed in the Security Housing Unit (SHU). The lawsuit alleged that long-term confinement in the SHU violated the Eighth Amendment's prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment as well as the Fourteenth Amendment's clause for due process. The court case on September 1, 2015 was settled resulting in the termination of indeterminate solitary confinement in California and greatly reducing the number of individuals in solitary confinement as a whole. The strike was the largest hunger strike in the history of the state of California, but ultimately its results were not very impactive. Many prisoners feel that there is still much change needed as the debriefing process for gang affiliated prisoners was not revised.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135139", "title": "After Virtue", "text": "After Virtue\n\nAfter Virtue is a book on moral philosophy by Alasdair MacIntyre. MacIntyre provides a bleak view of the state of modern moral discourse, regarding it as failing to be rational, and failing to admit to being irrational. He claims that older forms of moral discourse were in better shape, particularly singling out Aristotle's moral philosophy as an exemplar. \"After Virtue\" is among the most important texts in the recent revival of virtue ethics.\n\nThe book was first published in 1981 and has since gone through two subsequent editions, which have added to, but not changed, the original text. The second edition, published in 1984, adds a postscript replying to critics of the first edition; the third edition, published in 2007, contains a new prologue entitled \"\"After Virtue\" After a Quarter of a Century\".\n\nMacIntyre holds that \"After Virtue\" makes seven central claims. It begins with an allegory suggestive of the premise of the science-fiction novel \"A Canticle for Leibowitz\": a world where all sciences have been dismantled quickly and almost entirely. MacIntyre asks what the sciences would look like if they were re-assembled from the remnants of scientific knowledge that survived the catastrophe. \n\nHe claims that the new sciences, though superficially similar to the old, would in fact be devoid of real scientific content, because the key suppositions and attitudes would not be present. \"The hypothesis which I wish to advance,\" he continues, \"is that in the actual world which we inhabit the language of morality is in the same state of grave disorder as the language of natural science in the imaginary world which I described.\" Specifically, MacIntyre applies this hypothesis to advance the notion that the moral structures that emerged from the Enlightenment were philosophically doomed from the start because they were formed using the aforementioned incoherent language of morality. MacIntyre claims that this failure encompasses the work of many significant Enlightenment and post-Enlightenment moral philosophers, including Søren Kierkegaard, Karl Marx, Immanuel Kant, and David Hume. These philosophers \"fail because of certain shared characteristics deriving from their highly specific historical background.\" That background is the Enlightenment's abandonment of Aristotelianism, and in particular the Aristotelian concept of teleology. \n\nAncient and medieval ethics, argues MacIntyre, relied wholly on the teleological idea that human life had a proper end or character, and that human beings could not reach this natural end without preparation. Renaissance science rejected Aristotle's teleological physics as an incorrect and unnecessary account, which led Renaissance philosophy to make a similar rejection in the realm of ethics. But shorn of teleology, ethics as a body of knowledge was expurgated of its central content, and only remained as, essentially, a vocabulary list with few definitions and no context. With such an incomplete framework on which to base their moral understanding, the philosophers of the Enlightenment and their successors were doomed from the beginning.\n\nMacIntyre illustrates this point through an example of a people who, he argues, experienced a similar incoherence in their own moral and ethical tradition: the Polynesian people of the South Pacific and their taboos. King Kamehameha II removed the taboos of the people in order to modernize their society and met little if any resistance. The Polynesians had no issue with abandoning their long-standing cultural traditions and MacIntyre claims this is because the taboos, though once meaningful to the islanders, had been shorn over the centuries of their underlying spiritual and didactic purpose, becoming a set of arbitrary prohibitions. The fact that Kamehameha II could abolish them so easily and without opposition is evidence, MacIntyre argues, of their incoherence. A similar incoherence, he argues, bedevils the ethical project since the Enlightenment.\n\nAnother reason MacIntyre gives for the doomed nature of the Enlightenment is the fact that it ascribed moral agency to the individual. He claims this made morality no more than one man's opinion and, thus, philosophy became a forum of inexplicably subjective rules and principles. The failure of the Enlightenment Project, because of the abandonment of a teleological structure, is shown by the inadequacy of moral emotivism, which MacIntyre believes accurately reflects the state of modern morality.\n\nMacIntyre offers a critique of Friedrich Nietzsche, whom he calls the \"King Kamehameha II of the European tradition,\" in reference to the Polynesian allegory above. MacIntyre explains that, \"Nietzschean man, the Übermensch, [is] the man who transcends, finds his good nowhere in the social world to date, but only that in himself which dictates his own new law and his own new table of the virtues.\" Although he disagreed with Nietzsche's inegalitarian and elitist view of humankind, he acknowledged the validity of Nietzsche's critique of Enlightenment morality as an explanation of the latter's degeneration into emotivism, and that, like Kamehameha II, Nietzsche had identified the moral imperatives of his time as arbitrary and incoherent in demanding their abolition. \n\nThe nineteenth-century critic who has most lastingly and profoundly influenced MacIntyre is not Nietzsche but Marx—indeed, \"After Virtue\" originates in MacIntyre's plans to write a book repairing the moral weaknesses of Marxism. His critique of capitalism, and its associated liberal ideology and bureaucratic state (including what, in \"After Virtue\", he condemned as the state capitalism of the USSR) is not expressed in traditional Marxist terms. Instead, it is written as a defence of ordinary social \"practices\", and of the \"goods internal to practices\". Pursuit of these helps to give narrative structure and intelligibility to our lives, but these goods must be defended against their corruption by \"institutions\", which pursue such \"external goods\" as money, power and status (chapters 14-15).\n\nMacIntyre seeks to find an alternative to Nietzsche's philosophy and eventually concludes that only classic Aristotelian thought can hope to save Western humanity. While Nietzsche seems to include the Aristotelian ethics and politics in his attack on the \"degenerate disguises of the will to power,\" MacIntyre claims that this cannot be done due to important differences between the structure and assumptions of Aristotelian and post-Enlightenment philosophy. These include:\n\nMacIntyre opposes Nietzsche's return to the aristocratic ethics of Homeric Greece with the teleological approach to ethics pioneered by Aristotle. Nietzsche's critique of Enlightenment moral theory does not work against a teleological ethics. For MacIntyre, \"Nietzsche replaces the fictions of the Enlightenment individualism, of which he is so contemptuous, with a set of individualist fictions of his own.\" Nietzsche's Uebermensch, his solution to the lies of the Enlightenment, exposes the failure of the Enlightenment's epistemological project and of its search for a subjective yet universal morality. Nietzsche neglects the role of society in the formation and understanding of tradition and morality, and \"Nietzsche's great man cannot enter into relationships mediated by appeal to shared standards or virtues or goods; he is his own only moral authority and his relationships to others have to be exercises of that authority... it will be to condemn oneself to that moral solipsism which constitutes Nietzschean greatness.\"\n\n\"After Virtue\" ends by posing the question 'Nietzsche or Aristotle?', although MacIntyre acknowledges that the book does not give sufficient grounds for a definitive answer that it is Aristotle, not Nietzsche, who points to the best solution for the problems that the book has diagnosed. Those grounds are set out in MacIntyre's subsequent works, in which he elaborates a sophisticated revision of the philosophical tradition of Aristotelianism.\n\nIn the end, however, MacIntyre tells us that we are waiting not for Godot but for Benedict of Nursia. MacIntyre criticizes individualist political philosophy, such as John Rawls' \"A Theory of Justice\" and Robert Nozick's \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\". To MacIntyre, morals and virtues can only be comprehended through their relation to the community in which they come from. Whereas Rawls tells us to conceive of justice through abstracting ourselves from who we are (through the veil of ignorance, for example) MacIntyre disagrees. Running throughout \"After Virtue\" is the belief that in order to comprehend who we are, we must understand where we come from.\n\nGeorge Scialabba found \"After Virtue\" to be a strong critique of modernity, but claimed that MacIntyre \"faltered\" at the conclusion of the argument, when he sketched the features of what virtuous life should be like in the conditions of modernity. In particular, Scialabba objected to MacIntyre's claim that the good life for human beings consists in contemplating the good life for human beings; Scialabba found this insufficient and anticlimactic. Scialabba also argued that, although he appreciated MacIntyre's insistence on participation in community life as the best defense against the perils of modernity, this insistence was not justified with any discussion of how community life can be reconciled with the critical spirit that Scialabba finds to be one of the great achievements of modernity and of the philosophical enterprise.\n\nIn a review for \"Political Theory\", William E. Connolly argues that MacIntyre sees Nietzsche as \"the adversary to be defeated, but Nietzsche's voice is not heard clearly\". Connolly objects that MacIntyre's defense of virtue does not take into account Nietzsche's critique; MacIntyre also fails to build an account of \"telos\" that does not draw on biology in the way MacIntyre wanted to avoid—such a theory doesn't account for the fact that we are embodied.\n\nAnthony Ellis, in the journal \"Philosophy\", argued that MacIntyre's positive philosophical project is not explained as well as it could have been: it is \"of daunting opacity, though tantalizingly interesting\" but not given enough space in the book. Ellis also states that the discussion of Rawls and Nozick in \"After Virtue\" \"is slight and assertive\".\n\nIn the \"Review of Metaphysics\", Christos Evangeliou said that if the reader \"had expected to find in this book concretely how a revived Aristotelian tradition is supposed to work in order to shape ethically and rationally the irrational and disorderly modern world\", they \"may be a little disappointed in their expectations\".\n\nFrancis Wheen included a brief critique of \"After Virtue\" in his own book \"How Mumbo-Jumbo Conquered the World\". The thrust of Wheen's book was a defense of the principles of the Enlightenment against various strands of irrationalism, and Wheen identified \"After Virtue\" and MacIntyre as constituting one such strand. In general, critics identified Wheen's disparagement of MacIntyre as one of \"Mumbo-Jumbo\" few missteps. While MacIntyre certainly is a fierce critic of the Enlightenment, Wheen refused to engage MacIntyre's case but dismissed his work on the grounds that any objection to the Enlightenment qualified as \"mumbo-jumbo\" \"ex hypothesi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43448609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43448609", "title": "Andrzej Wierciński", "text": "Andrzej Wierciński\n\nAndrzej Wiercinski (born March 10, 1961 in Białystok, Poland) is a Philosopher, Theologian, and a Poet. He is Professor of General Education and Philosophy of Education, Department of Education, University of Warsaw, \"Professor extra numerum\" (\"ausserplanmäßiger Professor\") of Philosophy of Religion at Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany and President-Founder (2001) of the International Institute for Hermeneutics.\n\nWiercinski completed his M.A. with distinction in Theology (Catholic University of Lublin, 1984), and was ordained a priest for the Archdiocese of Lublin April 4, 1985. In 1990 he took his doctorate in philosophy with Stanisław Wielgus at the Catholic University of Lublin with a dissertation, \"Die scholastischen Vorbedingungen der Metaphysik Gustav Siewerths: Eine historisch-kritische Studie mit Bezug auf die Seinsvergessenheitstheorie von Martin Heidegger\". His second doctorate was in Theology with Gerhard-Ludwig Müller at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität in Munich with a dissertation, \"Der Dichter in seinem Dichtersein: Versuch einer philosophisch- theologischen Deutung des Dichterseins am Beispiel von Czesław Miłosz\". In 2007, Wiercinski took his Habilitation in Philosophy of Religion at Albert-Ludwigs-Universität in Freiburg i.Br. with a monograph, \"Hermeneutics Between Philosophy and Theology: The Imperative to Think the Incommensurable\". After obtaining a \"venia legendi\" in Philosophy of Religion, Wiercinski was 2007-2012 \"Privatdozent\" before becoming in 2012 \"ausserplanmäßiger Professor\" (\"Professor extra numerum\") of Philosophy of Religion at the Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Germany.\n\nWiercinski has generated research accomplishments in his subject areas that demonstrate his scholarly expertise both in the range of his works as well as in their broad, contentful composition. He understands hermeneutics as a specific mind-set of openness that admits of neither a priori nor apodictic demarcations between domains of knowledge, but instead sits decidedly between them in order to overcome the compartmentalization of knowledge forms from each other. Despite the postmodern format of this hermeneutic in-between — which of course will not be raised to a trans-regional, conceptually achievable absolutism — Wiercinski positions hermeneutics within the horizon of man’s unmistakable ability to attain truth, which actualizes itself in the history of knowledge and its forms. He understands philosophy of religion as the hermeneutic mediation between the incommensurable knowledge forms of religion/theology and philosophy, which are not separated off from one another but rather allude to one another both genealogically and constitutively.\n\nIn order to bring theology and philosophy into conversation with each other, Wiercinski has edited an entire row of anthologies, organized conferences, and taken part in many himself with talks. The hermeneutical in-between, which he takes up under numerous titles in lectures and publications, emblematically indicates not only a theoretical form, but also his marked talent for organizing and facilitating scholarly endeavor.\n\nIn teaching and research, Wiercinski is especially concerned with philosophical and theological hermeneutics, with the approaches of Hans-Georg Gadamer, Paul Ricoeur and the hermeneutic reappropriation of the metaphysics of the Middle-Ages, in conversation with Martin Heidegger and Gustav Siewerth; with German Idealism — especially Schelling — as well as with the hermeneutics of education, communication, medicine, and psychoanalysis. A main focus of his writing has been the hermeneutic retrieval of medieval metaphysics. His hermeneutics of education and hermenutics of medicine contribute to a better understanding of the relationship between human social sciences and natural sciences and their impact on contemporary society. As a prolific author, an accomplished manager and knowledge facilitator, he serves on the advisory boards of many international societies and on the editorial boards of international academic journals.\n\nWiercinski situates the contemporary debate regarding the relationship between philosophy and theology beyond Athens and Jerusalem. The original antinomy of Tertullian collapsed in light of the undeniably theological development of modern Western philosophy. The intellectual legacies of the Middle-Ages, the Renaissance, and the Enlightenment demonstrate that philosophy and theology are inseparably entrenched. Wiercinski observantly reveals that the representative theologians of the twentieth century were strongly philosophically informed. The theological profundity of Bultmann, Barth, Rahner, and von Balthasar, each in his own way, was a profundity of classical German philosophy. On the other hand, philosophy has theology to thank for its unmistakable radiance. Modern philosophers like Kant, Hegel, and Schelling are unthinkable without a theological background, not to mention postmoderns like Heidegger or Levinas. The necessity to pose philosophical questions and contemplate natural theology became a dominating concern not only for Christianity, but also for Western philosophy.\n\nFor Wiercinski, hermeneutics thoughtfully pursues a degree of mediation between the two poles of opposed misunderstandings of religion and the secular world. Hermeneutics comes to the aid of a strained relationship like a middleman and becomes ever more conscious of the finitude and historicity of understanding. The divide between theology and philosophy in the Western tradition is simply not a problem that must be overcome. In fact, this divide gave rise to a fruitful legacy that provoked both philosophy and theology to pose hermeneutical questions. On the basis of hermeneutics, Wiercinski invites a rejection of Heidegger’s call for a radical separation between philosophy and theology. Such a separation is hermeneutically untenable. Independently of how strictly the disciplines attempt to maintain their distance from one another, the opposing influence cannot be avoided. It is already a historical fact. Hermeneutics calls for new and renewed consideration of the problematic connections of theology and philosophy, and even at different levels. Philosophy and theology are not simply static disciplines that must somehow become methodologically associated, but historical disciplines with their own distinctive intellectual histories. They are fertilized by very the individuals that they nourish. The hermeneutico-critical apparatus, narrative identity in particular, is necessary in order to reclaim, in a constructive articulation, the tradition of respect and connection between philosophy and theology. The space that is to be established anew between philosophy and theology thanks to the contemplation of the incommensurable is an invitation to hermeneutics. That which happens in the no-man’s land between the two disciplines is hermeneutics and can only be hermeneutics. It is a hermeneutics between the courage to inquire and the humility to listen. Wiercinski claims no final judgment regarding the single proper connection of philosophy and theology, but attempts rather to show another way, a way that is to negotiate between the two disciplines. The sole possibility of disclosing this way lies in actually practicing hermeneutics. The incommensurability of philosophy and theology yearns for a myriad of interpretations. Philosophy and theology cannot eliminate such an open space for the manifold of interpretations, not even with reference to the distance between the two. Neither can one forbid the other from understanding and interpreting their connection differently.\n\nThe belonging-together of philosophy and theology discloses that Western philosophy and the theological tradition have developed, historically, with and alongside one and another. Throughout intellectual history there were movements that would be interpreted as philosophically autonomous, but were nonetheless entangled with theological background. On the other hand, we can also ask the theological side what would have become of Christianity without the encounter with Greek metaphysics. Surely something completely other, perhaps unthinkably other. Luther would not have been able to rediscover original Christianity without metaphysics because, to put it hermeneutically, this would have passed over the historical facticity of the matter. Hermeneutic philosophy must incorporate theology because can do nothing else. The reverse also applies. The object of hermeneutics, the matter itself, is theological in such a way that it incorporates voices that the tradition that we are generates. Hermeneutics is not theology, but must remain open for it.\nA hermeneutics which finds itself “between” the divine and the human can reveal a modus existendi for the people of the age of interpretation. This “hermeneutics of between” of philosophy and theology wants to let the plenitude of diverse voices come to speech in order to be able to address the drama of human existence with the acuteness that it deserves. In the hermeneutic age, philosophy has lost its claim to speak from an absolute perspective. Many of the arguments against the integration of theology into philosophy draw the false conclusion that if philosophy as “pure reason” is free from cultural entanglement, then it is also not subject to theology, since this latter is always culturally conditioned with respect to its particular and historical belief community. Hermeneutics helps to recognize that Western philosophy is just as much a cultural phenomenon as Western theology. It is a kind of confession of faith in critical thinking, founded by Socrates, refined in the Middle-Ages, and fully developed in the rational triumph of the Enlightenment. That this creed strives toward antinomy does not change the fact that it is anchored in culturally and theologically conditioned situations. Actually, philosophy in the West is just as much a form of life or art of living as theology. This is an idea that existentialism rediscovered from the Greeks. If philosophy and theology are both forms of living (as Wittgenstein opined) neither of the two has any a priori primacy over the other. Theology thus loses this privilege along with philosophy, and yet one can speak with reference to the relation between them from a philosophical and a theological perspective. Two forms of living are speaking with one another. However, theology has something of which no philosophy can assure itself, namely, the authority of God. Philosophy has yet something that theology cannot have: skeptical freedom from authority. In our conversations we must thus clearly distinguish between the theological and philosophical perspective and recognize that the other view, theological or philosophical, remains ever possible. Such an understanding gives theology and philosophy freedom to continue to develop themselves in dialogical independence from one another and to liberate themselves from the idealism of a synthesis of the two disciplines. Only in becoming conscious of their differences can one retain a firm foundation for conversation between them. Like every other hermeneutical conversation, it comes to be a recognition of opposing indebtedness that has a transformative character.\n\nAs the art of understanding, hermeneutics stipulates that an undertaking like this integrates the theoretical dimension of the question with the factical. Theology is no mere academic discipline. It is a mode of our being-in-the-world. With certain reservations, the same can be said of philosophy. Not only are two disciplines colliding, two alternative ways of being human are observing each other with a suspicious eye so that the other constitutes a provocation and a threat of its peculiar belief and conception of reality. An important contribution of hermeneutics consists in that it precludes any rash problem-solving, independent of whether it concerns itself with a liberal synthesis of two different discourses or a post-liberal burial of antagonism between them. This perpetual dialogue admits of no ultimate conclusion. Indeed, it would bad hermeneutician who would think that he has the last word, must have the last word, or even could have the last word.\n\n\n\n\n\"We Must Interpret: The Hermeneutic Retrieval of the Philosophical Tradition, Andrzej Wiercinski in Conversation with Boyd Blundell\"\n\n"}
{"id": "49344993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49344993", "title": "Bayesian estimation of templates in computational anatomy", "text": "Bayesian estimation of templates in computational anatomy\n\nStatistical shape analysis and statistical shape theory in computational anatomy (CA) is performed relative to templates, therefore it is a local theory of statistics on shape.Template estimation in computational anatomy from populations of observations is a fundamental operation ubiquitous to the discipline. Several methods for template estimation based on Bayesian probability and statistics in the random orbit model of CA have emerged for submanifolds and dense image volumes.\n\nLinear algebra is one of the central tools to modern engineering. Central to linear algebra is the notion of an orbit of vectors, with the matrices forming groups (matrices with inverses and identity) which act on the vectors. In linear algebra the equations describing the orbit elements the vectors are linear in the vectors being acted upon by the matrices. In computational anatomy the space of all shapes and forms is modeled as an orbit similar to the vectors in linear-algebra, however the groups do not act linear as the matrices do, and the shapes and forms are not additive. In computational anatomy addition is essentially replaced by the law of composition.\n\nThe central group acting CA defined on volumes in formula_1 are the diffeomorphisms formula_2 which are mappings with 3-components formula_3, law of composition of functions formula_4, with inverse formula_5.\n\nGroups and group are familiar to the Engineering community with the universal popularization and standardization of linear algebra as a basic model\n\nA popular group action is on scalar images, formula_6, with action on the right via the inverse.\n\nFor sub-manifolds formula_8, parametrized by a chart or immersion formula_9, the diffeomorphic action the flow of the position\n\nSeveral group actions in computational anatomy have been defined.\n\nFor the study of deformable shape in CA, a more general diffeomorphism group has been the group of choice, which is the infinite dimensional analogue. The high-dimensional diffeomorphism groups used in computational anatomy are generated via smooth flows formula_11 which satisfy the Lagrangian and Eulerian specification of the flow fields satisfying the ordinary differential equation: \nwith formula_12 the vector fields on formula_13 termed the Eulerian velocity of the particles at position formula_14 of the flow. The vector fields are functions in a function space, modelled as a smooth Hilbert space with the vector fields having 1-continuous derivative . For formula_15, with the inverse for the flow given by\nand the formula_16 Jacobian matrix for flows in formula_17 given as formula_18\n\nFlows were first introduced for large deformations in image matching; formula_19 is the instantaneous velocity of particle formula_20 at time formula_21. with the vector fields termed the Eulerian velocity of the particles at position of the flow. The modelling approach used in CA enforces a continuous differentiability condition on the vector fields by modelling the space of vector fields formula_22 as a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS), with the norm defined by a 1-1, differential operatorformula_23, Green's inverse formula_24. The norm according to formula_25 where for formula_26 a generalized function or distribution, then formula_27 on formula_28, and the conditional density on the observable imagery formula_29, conditioned on formula_30. For images with diffeomorphism group action formula_31, then the prior on the group formula_32 induces the prior on images formula_33, written as densities the log-posterior takes the form\n\nMaximum a posteriori estimation (MAP) estimation is central to modern statistical theory. Parameters of interest formula_35 take many forms including (i) disease type such as neurodegenerative or neurodevelopmental diseases, (ii) structure type such as cortical or subcorical structures in problems associated to segmentation of images, and (iii) template reconstruction from populations. Given the observed image formula_36, MAP estimation maximizes the posterior:\nThis requires computation of the conditional probabilities formula_38. The multiple atlas orbit model randomizes over the denumerable set of atlases formula_39. The model on images in the orbit take the form of a multi-modal mixture distribution\n\nThe study of sub-cortical neroanatomy has been the focus of many studies. Since the original publications by Csernansky and colleagues of hippocampal change in Schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, and Depression, many neuroanatomical shape statistical studies have now been completed using templates built from all of the subcortical structures for depression, Alzheimer's, Bipolar disorder, ADHD, autism, and Huntington's Disease. Templates were generated using Bayesian template estimation data back to Ma, Younes and Miller.\n\nShown in the accompanying Figure is an example of subcortical structure templates generated from T1-weighted magnetic resonance imagery by Tang et al. for the study of Alzheimer's disease in the ADNI population of subjects.\n\nNumerous studies have now been done on cardiac hypertrophy and the role of the structural integraties in the functional mechanics of the heart. Siamak Ardekani has been working on populations of Cardiac anatomies reconstructing atlas coordinate systems from populations. The figure on the right shows the computational cardiac anatomy method being used to identify regional differences in radial thickness at end-systolic cardiac phase between patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (left) and hypertensive heart disease (right). Color map that is placed on a common surface template (gray mesh) represents region ( basilar septal and the anterior epicardial wall) that has on average significantly larger radial thickness in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy vs. hypertensive heart disease (reference below).\n\nGenerating templates empirically from populations is a fundamental operation ubiquitous to the discipline.\nSeveral methods based on Bayesian statistics have emerged for submanifolds and dense image volumes.\nFor the dense image volume case, given the observable formula_41 the problem is to estimate the template in the orbit of dense images formula_30. Ma's procedure takes an initial hypertemplate formula_43 as the starting point, and models the template in the orbit under the unknown to be estimated diffeomorphism formula_44, with the parameters to be estimated the log-coordinates formula_45 determining the geodesic mapping of the hyper-template formula_46.\n\nIn the Bayesian random orbit model of computational anatomy the observed MRI images formula_47 are modelled as a conditionally Gaussian random field with mean field formula_48, with formula_49 a random unknown transformation of the template. The MAP estimation problem is to estimate the unknown template formula_50 given the observed MRI images.\n\nMa's procedure for dense imagery takes an initial hypertemplate formula_43 as the starting point, and models the template in the orbit under the unknown to be estimated diffeomorphism formula_44. The observables are modelled as conditional random fields, formula_53 a random field with mean field formula_54. The unknown variable to be estimated explicitly by MAP is the mapping of the hyper-template formula_55, with the other mappings considered as nuisance or hidden variables which are integrated out via the Bayes procedure. This is accomplished using the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm.\n\nThe orbit-model is exploited by associating the unknown to be estimated flows to their log-coordinates formula_56 via the Riemannian geodesic log and exponential for computational anatomy the initial vector field in the tangent space at the identity so that formula_57, with formula_58 the mapping of the hyper-template.\nThe MAP estimation problem becomes\n\nThe EM algorithm takes as complete data the vector-field coordinates parameterizing the mapping, formula_56 and compute iteratively the conditional-expectation\n"}
{"id": "454961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454961", "title": "Chant", "text": "Chant\n\nA chant (from French ', from Latin ', \"to sing\") is the iterative speaking or singing of words or sounds, often primarily on one or two main pitches called reciting tones. Chants may range from a simple melody involving a limited set of notes to highly complex musical structures, often including a great deal of repetition of musical subphrases, such as Great Responsories and Offertories of Gregorian chant. Chant may be considered speech, music, or a heightened or stylized form of speech. In the later Middle Ages some religious chant evolved into song (forming one of the roots of later Western music).\n\nChanting (e.g., mantra, sacred text, the name of God/Spirit, etc.) is a commonly used spiritual practice. Like prayer, chant may be a component of either personal or group practice. Diverse spiritual traditions consider chant a route to spiritual development.\nSome examples include chant in African, Hawaiian, and Native American, Assyrian and Australian Aboriginal cultures, Gregorian chant, Vedic chant, Qur'an reading, Islamic Dhikr, Baha'i chants, various Buddhist chants, various mantras, Jewish cantillation, and the chanting of psalms and prayers especially in Roman Catholic (see Gregorian chant or Taizé Community), Eastern Orthodox (see Byzantine chant or Znamenny chant, for examples), Lutheran, and Anglican churches (see Anglican Chant).\n\nChant practices vary. Tibetan Buddhist chant involves throat singing, where multiple pitches are produced by each performer. The concept of chanting mantras is of particular significance in many Hindu traditions and other closely related Dharmic Religions. India's bhakti devotional tradition centres on kirtan, which has a following in many countries and traditions such as Ananda Marga. The Hare Krishna movement is based especially on the chanting of Sanskrit Names of God in the Vaishnava tradition. Japanese \"Shijin\" (诗经), or 'chanted poetry', mirrors Zen Buddhist principles and is sung from the \"Dan tien\" (or lower abdomen) — the locus of power in Eastern traditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2081110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081110", "title": "David Charles (philosopher)", "text": "David Charles (philosopher)\n\nDavid Owain Maurice Charles is a Professor of Philosophy and Classics at Yale University. He has previously been Colin Prestige Fellow, and Professor of Philosophy at Oriel College, Oxford, and CUF Lecturer in Philosophy, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University, and has been a Visiting Professor at the University of California at Los Angeles and at Rutgers University, New Jersey.\n\nCharles holds a doctorate (D.Phil.) in philosophy from Oxford University. His research interests lie in issues concerning meaning, definition and practical skill and interconnections between philosophy and psychiatry. He has published on Greek philosophy and on contemporary philosophy of mind and metaphysics.\n\n"}
{"id": "18244814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18244814", "title": "Dawkins vs. Gould", "text": "Dawkins vs. Gould\n\nDawkins vs. Gould: Survival of the Fittest is a book about the differing views of biologists Richard Dawkins and Stephen Jay Gould by philosopher of biology Kim Sterelny. When first published in 2001 it became an international best-seller. A new edition was published in 2007 to include Gould's \"The Structure of Evolutionary Theory\" finished shortly before his death in 2002, and more recent works by Dawkins. The synopsis below is from the 2007 publication.\n\nIn the introductory chapter the author points out that there have been many conflicts in biology. Still, few have been as public or as polemical as the one between Dawkins and Gould. Dawkins sees evolution as a competition between gene lineages, where organisms are vehicles for those genes. Gould, a palaeontologist in the tradition of George Gaylord Simpson, has a different perspective. For example, he sees chance as very important, and views organisms as being more important than genes. Their broader world views also differ, for instance they have very different beliefs about the relationship between religion and science.\n\nThis begins with a discussion on genes and gene lineages (chapter 2). Dawkins' view on the nature of evolution, as outlined in \"The Selfish Gene\", has genes as the units of selection, both in the first replicators and in more complex organisms, where alliances of genes are formed (and sometimes broken). He then discusses in chapter 3, Dawkins' view of heritability, with genes as difference makers that satisfy replicator principles and have phenotypic power, increasing the likelihood of phenotypic expression, depending on environmental context. In chapter 4, he discusses aspects of genomes and genetic replication, using various examples. He notes that in a story about magpie aggression, \"Dawkins' story will be about genes and vehicles\", whereas Gould and others will describe it in terms of phenotypic fitness. (p. 39) He discusses ways in which genes \"lever their way into the next generation\", including genes that are loners, or 'Outlaws', and which promote their own replication at the expense of other genes in their organism's genome. He then discusses the role of extended phenotypes, in which genotypes that influence their environment further increase the likelihood of replication (chapter 4). Chapter 5 explores selfish genes and the selection within the animal kingdom of co-operation as opposed to altruism, levels of selection, and the evolution of evolvability itself. Sterelny notes that on the issue of high-level selection, \"Dawkins and Gould are less sharp than they once were.\" (p. 65)\n\nIn chapter 6, Sterelny notes that \"despite the heat of some recent rhetoric, the same is true of the role of selection in generating evolutionary change\", (p. 67) and naive adaptationism. \"Everyone accepts that many characteristics of organisms are not the direct result of selection\", as in the example of redness of blood, which is a by-product of its oxygen-carrying properties. (p. 70) Numerous general truths are uncontroversial \"though their application to particular cases may be. Nor is there disagreement between Gould and Dawkins on core cases\", such as echolocation in bats, which \"everyone agrees is an adaptation\". (p. 71) They do however differ on the relative role of selection and variation. For example, they have different emphases on development. Developmental constraints are fundamental to Gould's approach. Dawkins gives this less weight, and has been more interested in enhanced possibilities open to lineages as a result of developmental revolutions. For example, the evolution of segmentation increases variation possibilities. He discusses this in \"Climbing Mount Improbable\", and \"returns to similar themes at the end of \"The Ancestor's Tale\": major transitions in evolution are developmental transitions, transitions that make new variants possible, and hence new adaptive complexes possible\". (pp. 77–78)\n\n\"Gould, on the other hand, is inclined to bet that the array of possibilities open to a lineage is tightly restricted, often to minor variants of its current state.\" (p. 78) Gould sees morphological stability as \"probably explained by constraints on the supply of variation to selection\". (p. 78) But whereas in his earlier work Gould considered variation supply as a brake on evolutionary change, in \"The Structure of Evolutionary Theory\" he carefully notes that it can also enhance possibilities for change. \"So while both Dawkins and Gould recognise the central role of developmental biology in an explanation of evolutionary change, they make different bets as to what the role will be. Gould but not Dawkins thinks that one of these roles is as a brake\", damping down change possibilities. (p. 78) Another difference is Dawkins conception of evolutionary biology's central problem as the explanation of adaptive complexity, whereas Gould has largely focused on the existence of large-scale patterns in the history of life that are not explained by natural selection. \"A further disagreement concerns the existence and importance of these patterns\", (p. 79) which leads on to Part III.\n\nIn discussing Gould's perspective, Sterelny begins with two fundamental distinctions that Gould saw between his viewpoint and that of the Dawkins camp. Firstly, Gould thought that gene selectionists misrepresent the role of genes in microevolution, ascribing a causal role in evolution, rather than by-product record of evolutionary change. Moreover, evolutionary biologists have often neglected non-selective possibilities when formulating hypotheses about microevolutionary change. For example, contemporary sex differences in human males and females need not be adaptations, but could be evolutionary vestiges of a greater sexual dimorphism in ancestral species.\n\nBut Gould's main target is 'extrapolationism', concerning the relationship between evolutionary processes occurring within species and those of large-scale life histories. In this view, the evolution of species lineages is an aggregate of events at the local population scale, with major changes being the additive result of minor changes over successive generations. While not disputing the relevance of this, Gould argued that it is not the whole truth. \"Indeed, it is not much of an exaggeration to say that Gould's professional life has been one long campaign against the idea that this history of life is nothing but the long, long accumulation of local events.\" (p. 86) Sterelny offers four highlights to illustrate this.\n\nFirstly, punctuated equilibrium, in which new species arise by a split in a parental species, followed by geologically rapid speciation of one or both of the fragments. A period of stasis then occurs until the species either becomes extinct or splits again. Gould argued that punctuated equilibrium challenges the gradual change expected by extrapolationists. In the case of Hominid evolution, there is the evolutionary trend of marked increase in brain size. To Gould, this trend was the result of species sorting, in which species with relatively larger brains were more likely to appear, or to survive.\n\nSecondly, in his Natural History writings, Gould often argued that the history of life was profoundly affected by mass extinctions caused by environmental catastrophes such as an asteroid impact causing the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, which wiped out pterosaurs, large marine reptiles and non-avian dinosaurs 66 million years ago. Such a mass extinction would be sudden at not just the larger geological time-scale, but also the more ephemeral ecological one. \"The properties that are visible to selection and evolution in local populations—the extent to which an organism is suited to life here and now\" become irrelevant to survival prospects in mass extinction times. \"Survival or extinction in mass extinction episodes determines the large-scale shape of the tree of life\". Massive culling of synapsids at the end of the Permian \"gave the dinosaurs their chance. The death of the dinosaurs opened the door for the radiation of mammals.\" (p. 89)\n\nThirdly, in \"Wonderful Life\", Gould describes the Burgess Shale fauna, which is known in detail due to fortuitous preservation of both hard and soft tissue around 505 million years ago. Gould argues that the Burgess Shale fauna demonstrate both diversity of species and disparity of body plans. He accepts that diversity has probably increased over the last few million years, but argues that disparity of animal life peaked early in evolutionary history, with very little disparity generated since the Cambrian, and profound conservatism in surviving lineages. For example, despite diversity in beetle species their body plans follow the same general pattern. He argues that survival has been contingent, and that if the tape of life was replayed from the earliest Cambrian, with small alterations in the initial conditions, a different set of survivors may have evolved.\n\nFourth, in \"\", \"Gould argues that evolutionary trends are not the scaled-up consequences of competitive interactions among organisms.\" (p. 90) For example, morphological changes in horses are not the cumulative result of the competitive success of horses better adapted to grazing. \"Rather, Gould argues that this trend is really a change in the spread of variation within the horse lineage\", which used to be species rich with a wide range of lifestyles and sizes. \"But only a very few species survived, and those few happen to be largish horses. The average horse is larger now only because almost all horse species became extinct, and the few survivors happened to be somewhat atypical\", and there is no evolutionary 'trend' towards increased size. (p. 91) Similarly with complexity. While complexity has increased over time, it is misleading to see this simply as a trend towards increased complexity, from simple organisms such as bacteria to complex organisms such as us. Rather, the distance from the least to the most complex living organism has increased. \"The real phenomenon to be explained is this increase in variation rather than an upward trend in average complexity. There is, Gould argues, no such trend.\" (p. 92)\n\nSterelny notes two issues arising from consideration of Gould's case against extrapolationism. \"Are the patterns in life's history that he claims to detect real? And do these patterns really show the existence of evolutionary mechanisms other than those operating at the scale of local populations?\" (p. 92)\n\nSterelny then outlines in chapter 8 Gould and Eldredge's punctuated equilibrium hypothesis. They argued that the appearance of stability in species evolution is not a mere effect of the gappiness and imperfection of the fossil record. Rather, it is the result of discontinuous tempos of change in the process of speciation and the deployment of species in geological time.\nSterelny notes that this hypothesis has been misunderstood in two important ways. First, in some early discussions of the idea, the contrast between geological and ecological time was blurred, with Gould and Eldredge interpreted as claiming that species originate more or less overnight in a single step. However, Gould and Eldredge were referring to geological time, in which speciation taking 50,000 years would seem instantaneous relative to a species existence over millions of years. A second misunderstanding relates to further evolutionary change following speciation. They are not claiming that there is no generational change at all. \"Lineages do change. But the change between generations does not accumulate. Instead, over time, the species wobbles about its phenotypic mean. Jonathan Weiner's The Beak of the Finch describes this very process.\" (p. 96) Sterelny notes that despite the fact that the fossil record represents, for several reasons, a biased sample, \"the consensus seems to be shifting Gould's way: the punctuated equilibrium pattern is common, perhaps even predominant\". Yet even if stasis is common \"why suppose that this is bad news for the extrapolationist orthodoxy?\" (p. 97) He notes that \"the problem is not stasis but speciation. How can events in a local population generate a new species?\" (p. 98) In discussing this issue, he notes \"any solution to the speciation problem will take us beyond events in local populations observable on human timescales\", and \"it is likely that whatever explains the occasional transformation of a population into a species will rely on large-scale but rare climatic, biological, geographic or geological events; events which isolate populations until local change is entrenched\". (p. 99) He notes that speciation is not just the accumulation of events in a local population, but dependent on the population's embeddedness into a larger whole. \"There is a break with a strong version of extrapolationism, but it is not a radical break. Dawkins could, should, and probably would accept it; in \"The Ancestor's Tale\", he has an inclusive view of speciation mechanisms.\" (p. 100) Thus, while \"Gould somewhat overstates the adherence of orthodoxy to strict extrapolationism\", punctuated equilibrium is more important than some of the more \"ungenerous treatment\" that has been meted out. (pp. 100–101)\n\nIn chapter 9, Sterelny discusses mass extinction, and notes Gould's hypothesis that mass extinctions are more frequent, rapid, intense and different in their effects than has been supposed. (p. 108) Moreover, Gould argues that during such extinctions, there are evolutionary principles that would enable the prediction of winners and losers. \"The game has rules. But they are different rules from those of normal times ... Species survival is not random, but the properties on which survival depends are not adaptations to the danger mass extinction threatens. If a meteor impact caused a nuclear winter, then the ability to lie dormant would have improved your chances. But dormancy is not an adaptation to the danger of meteor impacts.\" (p. 110) Similarly, \"species with broad geographical ranges, species with broad habitat tolerances, species whose lifecycle does not tie them too closely to a particular type of community all would have had a better chance of making it\", (p. 110) and this amounts to species selection. However, as Gould concedes, there are no well-worked-out case studies. \"In short, Gould's case for the importance of mass extinction depends on the view that there is a qualitative difference between mass extinction and background extinction, and that major groups have disappeared that would otherwise have survived\". (p. 113) A plausible but difficult to prove claim, as is the claim that mass extinction regimes are species selection regimes.\n\nIn chapter 10, Sterelny discusses the fossil evidence of Cambrian fauna, and how this provides the basis for Gould's challenge to gradualistic orthodoxy. About 543 million years ago, at the base of the Cambrian, the Ediacaran fauna, characterised by small shelly fossils, fossilised tracks, and burrows, apparently disappeared. From available evidence, diversity of fauna was very limited at the beginning of the Cambrian Period. \"By the middle of the Cambrian, about 520 million years ago, animal life was rich and diverse\", (p. 116) as demonstrated by the Maotianshan Shales fossils, in Chengjiang, China, which \"are as spectacular as the Burgess Shale fauna, and significantly older.\" (p. 116) \"Thus the fossil record seems to show that most of the major animal groups appeared simultaneously. In the 'Cambrian explosion', we find segmented worms, velvet worms, starfish and their allies, molluscs (bivalves, snails, squid and their relatives), sponges, brachiopods and other shelled animals appearing all at once, with their basic organisation, organ systems and sensory mechanisms already operational.\" (p. 116) \"This explosive evolutionary radiation of the Cambrian seems to be unique. Plants seem to have arisen somewhat more gradually ... nor was there a similar radiation when animals invaded the land ... the colonisation of the land saw no new ways of making an animal.\" (p. 117) Despite adaptations, the basic body plans remain recognisable. One possibility is that the 'Cambrian explosion' is \"an illusion generated by the failure of earlier Precambrian fossils to survive to our times,\" (p. 117) that there is a long history of hidden evolution preceding the appearance of multi-celled animals in the fossil record. \"This remains a live option. There are fossil embryos of animals from China dating to about 570 million years ago\", (p. 120) and there are many animal lineages for which there is no fossil record, possibly due to being small and soft-bodied, so leaving no detectable traces. Certainly Precambrian animal life is evidenced by the Ediacaran fossils, but the relationship between fauna from these two periods remains unclear. Gould was inclined to support the view that the Ediacaran fauna became wholly extinct prior to the Cambrian, thus were not Cambrian ancestors, \"hence their existence does not extend the timeframe of animal evolution into the Precambrian\". (p. 120)\n\nHowever, the development of methods of calibrating rates of change in DNA sequences has given the ability to estimate the last common ancestor of various lineages. It also allows the obtaining of molecular clock dates for lineages without a fossil record, which shows that zero-fossil phyla are also ancient. Such information comes with important caveats in relation to methodology, including the underlying assumptions of each method. \"However, even the youngest dates from molecular clocks place the origins of the deepest branches in the tree of animal life—where the sponges and jellyfish branch off from the other early animals—over 600 million years ago, and so quite deep in the Precambrian.\" (p. 125) Gould accepted this, but noted that this does not negate the Cambrian Explosion. Molecular clocks date origins, while fossils date geographical spread and morphology. Molecular clock data cannot decide between gradual morphological change and rapid evolutionary bursts after initial species divergence. \"Moreover, Gould argues that the fossil record supports the model in which the lineage splits much earlier than the distinctive morphologies evolve. For that explains why we find no Precambrian proto-arthropod fossils. In short, the 'hidden history' hypothesis remains an open option, but so does Gould's guess that the Cambrian explosion was genuinely explosive rather than an illusion generated by incomplete preservation.\" (pp. 125–126)\n\nOf relevance to the explosive radiation hypothesis are the findings from the Cambrian sites: the Burgess (~505 myr), the Chengjiang (~522 myr), and the Sirius Passet formation in Greenland, which is dated at about 518 million years Before Present. Sterelny describes the distinction between disparity and diversity, and then explores Gould's claim that since the Cambrian, diversity has increased, but disparity has decreased. Since the Cambrian, not just species within phyla, but whole phyla themselves have become extinct. The major subdivisions of animal life are phyla, each of which is a distinctive way of building an animal. Gould's claim is that \"the Cambrian phylum count was larger, maybe much larger, than the contemporary count. No new phyla have appeared, and many have gone. That count, in turn, is a reasonable measure of disparity. So Cambrian disparity was considerably larger than current disparity. The history of animal life is not a history of gradually increasing differentiation. It is a history of exuberant initial proliferation followed by much loss; perhaps sudden loss.\" (p. 129) Gould doubted that selection played much role in either the early burst of disparity, the post-Cambrian conservativeness of evolution, or the roster of loss and survival.\n\nTo Gould, there is a conservative pattern of history indicated by a reduction in disparity as measured by both the lack of new body plans and the lack of any major modifications of old ones. Given that evolution in general has not ceased in the past 500 million years, this poses a number of questions. However, Dawkins and more so his former student Mark Ridley think Gould's basic claim about history's pattern is incorrect. Central to Ridley's approach is cladistics, in which the purpose of biological systematics is to discover and represent genealogical relationships between species. Biological classifications are thus evolutionary genealogies, where only monophyletic groups (e.g. genera, families, orders, classes, phyla) are recognised and named. To cladists, similarity and dissimilarity are not objective features of the living world; they are products of human perceptions. Thus, whereas some morphological and physiological differences are more salient to us, and more striking or surprising, this is a fact about us, not the history of life. Conversely, genealogical reconstructions—who is related to whom—are objective facts independent of the observer's perception. Sterelny discusses how both cladists and Dawkins think that Gould overestimates Cambrian disparity, and he notes that while the distinction between disparity and diversity is very plausible, in the absence of a good account of the nature of disparity, and objective measures, \"the existence of Gould's puzzling pattern remains conjectural\". (p. 141)\n\nFinally, in chapter 11, Sterelny discusses the \"evolutionary escalator\", or the tendency over time for life on earth to show a progressive increase both in complexity and adaptivity. While Gould does not outright reject this, he thinks it is a misleading way to think about the history of life. As above, with the example of horses, Gould argues that there has been no directional trend, but rather, a massive extinction in the horse lineage, with the surviving remnants happening to be largish grazers. So the appearance of a trend is generated by a reduction in heterogeneity. \"A trend which is hostage to one switch between life and death is no trend at all.\" (p. 146) At the scale of complexity, the same applies. \"What we think of as a progressive increase in complexity is a change in the difference between the least and the most complex organism. It is a change in the spread of complexity.\" (p. 146) Life starts in the simplest form that the constraints of chemistry and physics will allow, with bacteria probably close to that limit. \"So life starts at the minimum level of complexity. Since even now nearly everything that is alive is a bacterium, for the most part life has stayed that way.\" (p. 146) But occasionally life builds a lineage that becomes more complex over time. There are no global evolutionary mechanisms that either prevent more complex organisms evolving from simpler ones, or that make it more likely to occur. Complexity tends to drift up because the point of life's origin is close to the physical lower bound. Such complex creatures are relatively less than bacteria, which still dominate life, but the difference between the simplest and most complex organisms tends to become greater over time. So the increased range is wholly undirected. Displayed as a frequency distribution curve or histogram, the shape would be skewed to the right (i.e. positively skewed), with the mode near the left. Over time, the range would increase as average complexity drifts upwards. But the mode would remain at left, with the curve spreading to the right, because there is a wall imposed by the laws of the physical sciences to the left, but not to the right.\n\nTo Gould, this upward drift in complexity is not the same as directional progress. 'Replaying the tape' of life's history would not guarantee the same outcomes, especially as mass extinction events make history utterly unpredictable. Conversely, Dawkins and Simon Conway Morris think that the course of evolutionary history is more predictable than does Gould. They argue that \"convergent evolution is such a ubiquitous feature of evolution that the broad outline of evolution is highly predictable. Evolutionary pathways are constrained by both opportunity and possibility. There are not many ways of building working organisms, and so we can predict that evolution will move along this small set of pathways. Many of the most distinctive features of living systems have evolved more than once. Some of them (like eyes) have evolved many times.\" (p. 149) Also, Dawkins thinks that evolution is progressive, not in an anthropocentric sense, but because over time life is becoming better adapted, although not in every aspect, as when local conditions change and organisms must move or readapt. \"There is no reason to suppose that there is any arrow of overall improvement here.\" (p. 150)\n\nHowever, Dawkins thinks that relationships between organisms and their enemies, such as predator-prey, or parasite-host relationships, are locked into a permanent arms race, and such lineages generate progressive change. \"Both predator and prey will become absolutely more efficient in hunting and avoiding hunters, though their relative success with respect to one another may not change at all over time.\" (p. 151) Thus progress is real though partial and intermittent. \"Partial because it is generated only when selective regimes are both directional and stable: selecting for the same kind of phenotypic change over long periods, as in arms races ... intermittent because every arms race will ultimately be disrupted by large-scale environmental changes.\" (p. 151) However, while they were in progress, each lineage was objectively improving.\n\nTo Sterelny, Gould overstates his case, and \"there is more to the history of life's complexity than a gradual increase in variance\". (p. 151) He cites the 1995 work \"The Major Transitions in Evolution\" by John Maynard Smith and Eörs Szathmáry, in which life's history involves a series of major transitions and hence inherent directionality, with each transition facilitating possibilities for the evolution of more complex organisms. Dawkins pursues a similar, though less detailed, argument* in discussing the evolution of evolvability, in which a series of 'watershed events' make new life forms possible. These watersheds in evolvability comprise the evolution of sex, of multi-celled life together with a life cycle that takes large organisms through a single-celled reproduction stage, and the evolution of a modular mode of the development and construction of bodies. \"Segmentation, for Dawkins, is a special case of modularity; of building a creature out of relatively discrete chunks. For once a chunk has been invented by evolution, it can be modified or redeployed without stuffing up the rest of the organism.\" (p. 152)\n\nWhile Gould too is interested in evolvability, the crucial difference between Gould's view, and that of Maynard Smith, Szathmary and Dawkins, is in how they see the spread of complexity. To Gould, complexity drifts upward, having a lower boundary or wall to the left, \"but no upper bound, and these features of complexity are fixed by biochemistry, not the course of evolutionary history\". (p. 153) Maynard Smith and Szathmary consider that evolutionary history has had upper bounds, or walls to the right. For example, until eukaryotic life evolved, there was an upper bound of complexity set by the intrinsic limits on the size and structural complexity of prokaryotes, and for \"perhaps 2 billion years, bacterial evolution was confined between these two limits.\" (p. 153) Similarly, until a series of evolutionary innovations facilitated the evolution of multi-celled organisms, eukaryotic complexity was set by the limits on a single eukaryotic cell. \"Maynard Smith and Szathmary argue that social existence, too, has evolutionary preconditions. Until these are met, a wall remains to the right.\" (p. 153) Whereas to Gould, there are unchanging boundaries set by physics and chemistry, Maynard Smith, Szathmary and Dawkins view evolution as irreversibly transforming these boundaries. \"The eukaryotic cell, sexual reproduction and cellular differentiation all change the nature of evolutionary possibility. These possibilities have changed over time in a direction that increases the maximum attainable complexity. In short, over time the rules of evolution change.\" (pp. 153–154) So evolvability has changed, with developmental mechanisms determining the variation available to selection. Gould claims that bacteria dominate every age, including this one.* They are the world's most numerous organisms, have the most disparate metabolic pathways, and may constitute most of the world's biomass. \"All this is true and important\", with Dawkins making similar observations.* \"But it is not the whole truth. We live in an age in which many biological structures are now possible that were once not possible. That too is true, and important.\" (p. 153)\n\nIn Chapter 12, Sterelny notes that \"Dawkins and his allies really do have a different conception of evolution from that embraced by Eldredge, Lewontin and other collaborators of Gould\", but that this does not explain the undercurrent of hostility generated in the debate, as illustrated by a series of exchanges in the \"New York Review of Books\". But the issues pertain mostly to matters internal to evolutionary theory, and apart from banal psychological explanations pertaining to human reaction to public criticism, Sterelny thinks that at core is their different attitudes to science itself. To Dawkins, science is not just a light in the dark, but \"by far our best, and perhaps our only, light.\" (p. 158) While not infallible, the natural sciences are society's one great engine for producing objective knowledge about the world, not just one knowledge system among many, and certainly not a socially constructed reflection of contemporary dominant ideology. Dawkins accepts that science cannot say what we should accept and reject, \"but does not think of values as a special kind of fact that can be studied non-scientifically\", notwithstanding that values are a kind of fact that anthropologists can and do study. \"Least of all does he think religion has any special authority on values.\" (p. 158)\n\nGould's perspective is more ambiguous, in which some important questions are outside the scope of science, falling into the domain of religion. \"On this issue, Dawkins' views are simple. He is an atheist. Theisms of all varieties are just bad ideas about how the world works, and science can prove that those ideas are bad. What is worse, as he sees it, these bad ideas have mostly had socially unfortunate consequences.\" (pp. 158–159) In contrast, Gould thought theism is irrelevant to religion. \"He interprets religion as a system of moral belief. Its essential feature is that it makes moral claims on how we ought to live. In Gould's view, science is irrelevant to moral claims. Science and religion are concerned with independent domains.\" (p. 159) Sterelny considers Gould's views on religion \"doubly strange\". (p. 159) First, various religions make innumerable factual claims about the history of the world and how it works, and those claims are often the basis of moral injunctions. Second, Gould's conception of ethics seems strange. \"Does he think that there are genuine ethical truths? Is there genuine moral knowledge?\" (p. 159) Recent ethical thinking has two approaches to this question, with perhaps the main contemporary argument being the 'expressivist' view that moral claims express the speaker's attitude towards some act or individual. In this view \"when, for instance, I call someone a scumbag, I do not describe a particular moral property of that person. Rather, I express my distaste for that person and their doings.\" (pp. 159–160) The main alternative is 'naturalism', in which moral claims are based on facts, albeit complex, about human welfare. Gould seems to deny both options. \"If 'expressivism' is right, there is no independent domain of moral knowledge to which religion contributes\", with moral utterances reflecting not objective features of the world, but attitudes and opinions of the speakers. Conversely, \"if naturalism is right, science is central to morality. For it discovers conditions under which we prosper.\" (p. 159)\n\nGould thinks that there are important domains of human understanding where science has no role, and moreover he is sceptical about science's role within its 'proper' domain. Nevertheless, he rejects extreme versions of postmodern relativism. Evolution is an objective fact, containing objective facts, and those facts are not just aspects of a Western creation myth reflecting the dominant ideology, or an element of the current palaeontological paradigm. \"So \"to some extent\" Gould shares with Dawkins the view that science delivers objective knowledge about the world as it is.\" (p. 161) But while science reflects objective evidence and is not a mere socio-cultural construction \"Gould argues that science is very deeply influenced by the cultural and social matrix in which it develops\", (p. 161) with many of his writings illustrating the influence of social context on science, and its ultimate sensitivity to evidence. These writings \"began as reflections on natural history; they ended as reflections on the history of natural history\". (p. 161) Gould's Time's Arrow, Time's Cycle (first published in 1987) \"locates the development of our conception of deep history in its cultural and intellectual context without any suggestion that that cultural context perverted the development of geology\", whereas \"in Wonderful Life, Gould argued that the Burgess Shale fauna were misunderstood because they were interpreted through the ideology of their discoverer\". (p. 162) The Mismeasure of Man is Gould's most famous work on the themes of socio-cultural interests leading to bad science, pseudo-science, racist and sexist science, where \"a particular ideological context led to a warped and distorted appreciation of the evidence on human difference\". (p. 162)\n\nThus, \"one sharp contrast between Dawkins and Gould is on the application of science in general, and evolutionary biology in particular, to our species\". (p. 162) Yet paradoxically, Dawkins' most systematic writings on human evolution explore the differences between human evolution and that of most other organisms, in which humans pass on their values through ideas and skills which Dawkins calls memes. To Dawkins, ideas are often like pathogens or parasites, replicating throughout human populations, sometimes quite virulently, with evangelical religion being a salient example. Doubts about the reliability and accuracy of idea replication suggest Dawkins' own view of cultural evolution may not work. But his general approach has gained some popularity, as illustrated by works which explore the interaction between cultural and biological evolution, such as Peter Richerson and Robert Boyd's \"Not By Genes Alone\". as well as Eytan Avital and Eva Jablonka's\" Animal Traditions\". \"So though Dawkins approaches human behaviour using different tools to those of standard sociobiologists and evolutionary psychologists, he is fully committed to the idea that we can understand ourselves only in an evolutionary framework.\" (pp. 164–165) This contrasts with Gould. While \"Of course\" he accepts that humans are an evolved species, \"Everything that Gould does not like in contemporary evolutionary thinking comes together in human sociobiology and its descendant, evolutionary psychology. The result has been a twenty-year campaign of savage polemic against evolutionary theories of human behaviour. Gould \"hates\" sociobiology\". And \"It is true that some evolutionary psychology does seem simple-minded,\" such as Randy Thornhill's \"unconvincing\" attempt to argue that a tendency towards rape is an evolutionary adaptation. (p. 165) However, contemporary evolutionary psychologists, and especially biological anthropologists, have accepted the need for caution in testing adaptationist hypotheses. (p. 165) However, even the most disciplined sociobiological approaches reflect different approaches to evolution to that exemplified by Gould. They \"tend not to emphasise the importance of development and history in imposing constraints on adaptation, the problems in translating microevolutionary change into species-level change, the role of contingency and mass extinction in reshaping evolving lineages, or the importance of paleobiology to evolutionary biology\", (p. 166) which likely played a part in Gould's hostility. But Sterelny suspects more most of all, Gould thought \"these ideas are dangerous and ill-motivated as well as wrong. They smack of hubris, of science moving beyond its proper domain, and incautiously at that\". Conversely, to Dawkins, knowledge of evolutionary underpinnings to human behaviour is potentially liberating, and \"might even help us to escape the poisoned chalice of religion\". (p. 166)\n\nFinally, in chapter 13, Sterelny summarises the fundamental contrasts between the views of Dawkins and Gould. In Dawkins' argument, selection acts on lineages of replicators, which are mostly but not exclusively genes. Ideas and skills are the replicators in animals capable of social learning, and \"the earliest replicators were certainly not genes\". (p. 167) Genetic competition occurs through vehicle-building alliances, with selection dependent on repeatable influences on those vehicles. Other genetic replication strategies include Outlaws, the prospects of which are enhanced at the expense of vehicle adaptiveness. And extended phenotype genes advantageously enhance their environment. The vehicles of Dawkins replicators need not be individuals, but can also be groups, although animal co-operation is not sufficient to claim group selection. Evolution's central explanatory imperative is the existence of complex adaptation, which can only be explained by natural selection. This complex adaptation evolves gradually, with occasional replication errors resulting in large but survivable phenotypic change. Humans are unusual species in that they are vehicles for memes as well as genes, although humans are not exempt from evolutionary biological explanations. Extrapolationism is a sound working theory, with most evolutionary patterns the result of microevolutionary change over vast geological time. Major animal lineages are the result of ordinary speciation processes, although possibility-expanding changes may result in some form of lineage-level selection.\n\nIn contrast, Gould sees selection as usually acting on organisms in a local population, although in theory and practice, it can occur at many levels, with change at one level often affecting future options at other levels. Selection can occur at the group level, with some species lineages having characteristics which make extinction less likely, or speciation more likely. And while rare, selection can occur on genes within an organism. While selection is important, and requires understanding, it is just one of many factors explaining microevolutionary events and macroevolutionary patterns. Further, complex adaptations are but one phenomenon explanations in evolutionary biology. Extrapolationism is not a good theory, with large-scale patterns in the history of life not explainable by extrapolating from measurable events in local populations. Evolutionary biology needs a theory of variation, explaining the effect of variation supply on change potentiality. While humans are evolved animals, attempts to explain human behaviour using techniques from evolutionary biology have largely failed, \"vitiated by one-sided understanding of evolutionary biology. They have often been biologically naive.\" (p. 170)\n\nSterelny notes that these debates remain alive and developing, with no final adjudication possible as yet. \"But we can say something about how the argument has developed.\" (p. 170) He claims that \"the idea that gene-selectionist views of evolution are tacitly dependent on reductionism and genetic determinism is a mistake. Dawkins and the other gene selectionists do not think that nothing happens in evolution but changes in gene frequency.\" (p. 170) They do not deny the significance of the organism or phenotype, which they see as vehicles of selection, or 'survival machines', which interact with other survival machines and with the environment in ways replication of the genes whose vehicles they are. But there are other replication-enhancing strategies apart from organism construction. Extended phenotypes, as exemplified by parasitic species, are common and important, with probably all parasitic gene pools including \"genes whose adaptive effects are on host organisms.\" (p. 171) And \"the outlaw count is unknown, but it is growing all the time\", and may transpire to be more common than thought.\n\nSterelny notes that \"gene selectionism is not determinism. No gene selectionist thinks that there is typically a simple relationship between carrying a particular gene and having a particular phenotype\". While they exist, such as the sickle-cell haemoglobin gene, they are the exception not the rule. Gene-selectionist ideas are compatible with context dependence of gene action, but they do assume some reasonable regular relationship between a specific gene in an organism's genotype, and some aspect of the organism's phenotypic expression. They assume that within gene lineages, the effect on their vehicles will be fairly similar. \"So while gene selectionists are not genetic determinists, they are making a bet on developmental biology. When revitalised to reoccurring features of context, gene action will turn out to be fairly systematic. There is no reason to suppose that this hunch is false, but it is not known to be true.\" (p. 172)\n\nDevelopmental biology is relevant to this debate in another important way: \"The role of selection in evolution. Gould is betting that when the facts of developmental biology are in, it will turn out that the evolutionary possibilities of most lineages are highly constrained\", with some characteristics \"frozen\" into their respective lineages. \"They are developmentally entrenched. That is, these basic organisational features are connected in development to most aspects of the organism's phenotype, and that makes them hard to change.\" (p. 172) And \"since variation in these frozen-in features is unlikely, selection is not likely to be important in explaining their persistence\", (p. 173) and Gould thinks 'frozen accidents' are important in explanations of evolutionary patterns found in the fossil record. Conversely, Dawkins thinks that over time, selection can alter the range of a lineage's evolutionary possibilities. \"So he thinks both that selection has a larger range of variation with which to work, and that when patterns do exist over long periods ... selection will have played a stabilising role.\" (p. 173) The integration of evolution and development \"is the hottest of hot topics in contemporary evolutionary theory, and this issue is still most certainly open\". In discussing the effects of mutations, Sterelny's \"best current guess is that developmental biology probably does generate biases in the variation that is available to selection, and hence that evolutionary trajectories will often depend both on selection and these biases in supply\" (173), vindicating Gould's view that developmental biology is crucial to explaining evolutionary patterns. (p. 174)\n\n\"But it is harder to see how to resolve some of Gould's other claims about the large-scale history of life. Despite the plausibility of the distinction between disparity and diversity, we are not close to constructing a good account of disparity and its measurement\". (p. 174) Further, convergent evolution belies the unpredictability that Gould supposes. However, \"most examples of convergence are not independent of evolutionary experiments. For they concern lineages with an enormous amount of shared history, and hence shared developmental potential\", as in \"the standard example of streamlining in marine reptiles, sharks, pelagic bony fish like the tuna, and dolphins\". (p. 175) Further, \"the scale is not large enough. The fact that eyes have often evolved does not show that had, say, the earliest chordates succumbed to a bit of bad luck (and become extinct), then vertebrate-like organisms would have evolved again.\" (p. 175) Moreover, Gould's main concern is not with adaptive complexes, which are the source of the above, oft-cited examples, \"but with body plans—basic ways of assembling organisms.\" Sterelny thinks that \"we have to score Gould's contingency claims as: 'Don't know; and at this stage don't know how to find out'\". (p. 175)\n\nGould seems right that mass extinctions played a role in shaping evolutionary history, and \"is probably right that extinction works by different rules in mass extinction regimes\". (p. 176) Some ideas are difficult to assess, such as whether mass extinctions filter out the features of species or of individuals comprising species. It is also difficult to tell how fundamental is the disagreement between Gould and Dawkins on this. But Sterelny's bet is that Gould may be right in thinking that survival or extinction in mass extinction depends on species properties. \"However, it has proved hard to find really clear, empirically well-founded examples to back up this hunch.\" (p. 176) It was once thought that sexual reproduction was maintained by species selection, which Sterelny outlines. He notes however that \"this idea has recently fallen on hard times\", with new individual-based ideas being developed. Further, species-level maintenance of sexual reproduction \"has a problem: sex does not always promote evolvability\", breaking up as well as creating advantageous gene combinations. (p. 177)\n\n\"So it has been hard to find really convincing examples of species-level properties that are built by species-level selection. The problem is to find: (i) traits that are aspects of species, not the organisms making up the species; (ii) traits that are relevant to extinction and survival; and (iii) traits that are transmitted to daughter species, granddaughter species and so forth\". And \"transmission to daughter species is especially problematic\". (p. 177) In the end, Sterelny states his own views are much closer to Dawkins than to Gould's, especially regarding microevolution—change within local populations. \"But macroevolution is not just microevolution scaled up; Gould's paleontological perspective offers real insights into mass extinction and its consequences, and, perhaps, the nature of species and speciation\". And Gould is considered right to expand the explanatory agenda of evolutionary biology to include large-scale patterns in life's history. \"So, Dawkins is right about evolution on local scales, but maybe Gould is right about the relationship between events on a local scale, and those on the vast scale of paleontological time.\" (p. 178)\n\nThe Suggested Reading section for each chapter is an extension of the chapter, aimed at pointing the reader in the direction of material that may assist their understanding of the issues under discussion.\n\nThis section of Sterelny's book contains, chapter by chapter, a comprehensive list of recommended reading, covering all of the main publications by Dawkins, Gould, and their respective proponents, along with many lesser-known publications by them, with accompanying commentary on either the authors, the publications, or both. Also, the readability of the various publications, and the relevance of the publications to the issues under discussion, as well as the relationship of the publications to each other, such as authors responding to each other through their publications, or supporting the stance of other authors, etc. He also tries to further clarify some points in the process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52401294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52401294", "title": "Debates in ancient India", "text": "Debates in ancient India\n\nThere was, for a considerable period of time, a very lively and extensively practiced tradition of formal debates in ancient India. These debates were conducted, sometimes with royal patronage, to examine various religious, philosophical, moral and doctrinal issues. The corpus of knowledge on conducting a successful debate was referred to as \"vādavidyā\" and several manuals dealing with this discipline had been produced. It was from these debates that the Indian tradition of logic and allied investigations were evolved and developed. The antiquity of this tradition can be traced even to pre-Buddhist period. For example, Brhadaranyaka Upsanisad, a pre-Buddhist text, has references to King Janaka as not only organizing and patronizing debates between the sages and priests but also as participating in such debates. Even women used to participate in these debates. Gargi was a woman scholar who used to participate in the debates in King Janaka's court.\n\nThough debate was popular at the time of the Upanisads, there was no theory of debates during that period. Such a theory evolved along with the spread of the teachings of Buddha, Mahavira, and other ascetics or religious reformers. By the third and second century BCE, monks and priests were required to have a training in the art of conducting a successful debate. Several debate manuals were written in different sectarian schools. But these early manuals written in Sanskrit have all been lost. However, the nature of these manuals could be glimpsed from Buddhist Chinese sources as well as from Pali sources like the Kathavatthu.\n\nThe earliest available treatises in Sanskrit in which the principles of debates are systematically explored are, strangely, two texts on Ayurveda, namely Charaka Samhita and Sushruta Samhita.\n\nThese are the two foundational Hindu texts of this field that have survived from ancient India. Charaka Samhitha is a voluminous work containing 120 chapters divided into eight parts. In the third part, called \"Vimanasthana\", along with other topics like training of a physician, ethics of medical practice, pathology, diet and nourishment, taste of medicines, etc., there is also a discussion on the principles of debate. The related doctrines are treated in Caraka-samhita under three heads, namely, 1) \"Karyabhinirvrtti\", the aggregate of resources for the accomplishment of an action (2) \"Pariksa\", the standard of examination, and (3) \"Sambhasha-vidhi\", or \"vada-vidhi\", the method of debate. This is followed by detailed discussions on these three topics. For example, there is a discussion on the various resources that are to be examined to accomplish an action. These resources include \"Karana\" (the actor, or agent who accomplishes an action), \"Karya\" (the action), \"Karya-phala\" (the effect), \"Desa\" (the place of the action), \"Kala\" (the time of the action), \"Pravrtti\" (the activity or exertion put forth for achieving the action), etc. The second head, \"Pariksa\", deals with the standard of examination. These standards are \"aptopadesa\" (reliable assertion) \"pratyaksa\" (perception), \"anumana\" (inference), \"yukti\" (reasoning). The discussion under the third head is much more elaborate.\n\nThe examination of \"vada-vidhi\" begins by dividing debates into two classes, namely, \"anuloma sambhasha\" (peaceful debate) and \"vigrihya sambhasha\" (hostile debate). The respondents are then classified as superior, equal and inferior. Also, the assembly witnessing the debate is classified as learned and ignorant. Each of these is then further classified as friendly, indifferent or hostile. There are suggestions as to how to handle the debate depending on the nature of the respondents and of the assembly. The treatise then goes on to give a list of 44 items a thorough knowledge of which is essential for the successful conduct of a debate.\n\nThe \"Nyayasutras\" contain a more systematic and improved version of the theory of debate than the one presented in Charaka Samhitha. The term \"katha\" (meaning speech or discourse) is the preferred term to denote philosophical debate in Nyaya literature. The Nyayasutras mention three kinds of debate, namely, \"vada\", \"jalpa\", and \"vitanda\". The first variety is between a proponent and his teacher or somebody with a similar status. The other two are between those who want victory. The goal of the first is establishment of truth or an accepted doctrine, that of the other two is victory. The first corresponds to Caraka's friendly or congenial debate, and the other two to his hostile debate.\n\nVada, the good or honest debate, is constituted by the following characteristics:\n\nJalpa is defined in Nyayasutra as a debate where, among the stated characteristics of the first type of debate, only such characteristics as would seem appropriate would be applicable. In addition, the debater can use, for the establishment of his own position and for the\nrefutation of the opponent's thesis, such means as quibbling, illegitimate rejoinders and any kind of clincher. Three kinds of quibbling are listed, twenty-four kinds of illegitimate rejoinders and twenty-two kinds of clinchers.\n\nThe third debate mentioned in the Nyayasutra is called vitanda, which has sometimes been translated as wrangling. It is defined as a debate where no counter-thesis is established. In other words, the debater here tries to ensure victory simply by\nrefuting the thesis put forward by the other side. It is sometimes claimed to be a type of bad debate, for the only goal is victory, as in the second type, and the use of such trickery as quibbling and illegitimate rejoinder is allowed.\n"}
{"id": "8412091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8412091", "title": "Doctrine of inherency", "text": "Doctrine of inherency\n\nIn United States patent law, the doctrine of inherency holds that, under certain circumstances, prior art may be relied upon not only for what it expressly teaches, but also for what is inherent therein, i.e., what necessarily flows from the express teachings. For a patent claim to be valid, its subject-matter must be novel and non-obvious. The claim is anticipated (i.e. will fail because its subject-matter is not novel) if a single prior art reference, either expressly or inherently, discloses every feature of the claimed invention. The concept of inherency is predicated on the idea that a claim should not pass the test of anticipation merely because a feature of it is undisclosed or unrecognized in the prior art reference. A prior art source may thus still anticipate if an apparently missing element of the claim is inherent in that prior art source.\n\nProcedurally, to rely on the doctrine of inherency, one must provide a basis in fact and/or technical reasoning supporting a determination that an allegedly inherent characteristic necessarily would be present if the teachings of the prior art were followed, even if the inherent feature would not have been recognized.\n\nThe fact that a certain result or characteristic may occur or be present in the prior art is not alone sufficient to establish inherency of that result or characteristic. To establish inherency, the evidence must make clear that the missing matter is \"necessarily\" present in the prior art reference. Inherency may not be established by probabilities or possibilities.\n\nOnce the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) establishes that a product referenced in prior art appears to be substantially identical, the burden shifts to the applicant to show a non-obvious difference.\n\nThe doctrine of inherency is typically invoked when an inventor tries to obtain a \"product\" patent for a product that had been unintentionally invented earlier (\"accidental anticipation\").\n\nThe United States Supreme Court held in \"Tilghman v. Proctor\" that where the first, accidental producer was not aware of the product and did not attempt to produce it, the first production did not bar a patent on the subsequent \"invention\" of the product. 102 U.S. 707 (1880).\n\nThe use of the doctrine of inherency in a determination of obviousness is more complicated because \"[t]hat which may be inherent is not necessarily known and that which is unknown cannot be obvious.\"\n\nA patent applicant may use the doctrine of inherency to respond to a rejection for lack of an adequate written description by showing that the patent application inherently includes the disclosure that is allegedly lacking.\n\n"}
{"id": "21766677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21766677", "title": "East Pole–West Pole divide", "text": "East Pole–West Pole divide\n\nThe East Pole–West Pole divide in the fields of cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience is an intellectual schism between researchers subscribing to the nativist and empiricist schools of thought. The term arose from the fact that much of the theory and research supporting nativism, modularity of mind, and computational theory of mind originated at several universities located on the East Coast, including Harvard University, the University of Michigan, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Tufts University. Conversely, much of the research and theory supporting empiricism, emergentism, and embodied cognition originated at several universities located on the West Coast, including the University of California, Berkeley, the Salk Institute, and, most notably, the University of California, San Diego. In reality, the divide is not so clear, with many universities and scholars on both coasts (as well as the Midwest and around the world) supporting each position, as well as more moderate positions in between the two extremes. The phrase was coined by Jerry Fodor at an MIT conference on cognition, at which he referred to another researcher as a \"West Coast theorist,\" apparently unaware that the researcher worked at Yale University.\n\nVery few researchers adhere strictly to the extreme positions highlighted by the East Pole–West Pole debate. That is, there are very few empiricists who believe in the Lockean ideal of the \"tabula rasa\" (namely, that children are born with no innate knowledge or constraints), and there are very few nativists who agree with Fodor's assertion that all concepts that are learned over the course of life are present in the mind prior to birth. Nevertheless, most scholars within the fields of cognitive science and developmental psychology affiliate themselves with one of the two positions through the means of their research.\n\nThe two books best known for espousing the empiricist and nativist positions within the context of cognitive psychology are \"Rethinking Innateness\" by Jeffrey Elman et al. and \"The Modularity of Mind\" by Jerry Fodor, respectively. Incidentally, the authors are affiliated with the two institutions on which the East Pole–West Pole metaphor is based, UCSD and MIT, affirming the relevance and pervasiveness of this moniker for the intellectual divide.\n\nNativists\nEmpiricists\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43210187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43210187", "title": "Emeran Mayer", "text": "Emeran Mayer\n\nEmeran Anton Mayer (born July 26, 1950 in Traunstein, Germany) is a gastroenterologist, lecturer, author, editor, neuroscientist, documentary filmmaker and a professor in the Departments of Medicine, Physiology and Psychiatry at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA He is a pioneer of medical research into brain gut interactions\nMayer became interested in mind-brain-body interactions in health and chronic disease as a college student at Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich, which inspired his decision to go to medical school at Ludwig Maximilian University Medical School His interest in documentary filmmaking galvanized this fascination and resulted in his journeys to the Yanoama tribes in the Orinoco region, and the Asmat people in Irian Jaya. There, he filmed and studied native healers while exploring his suspicion that the interactions between the gut and the brain transcend culture and time.\n\nMayer’s research career began at the Institute of Physiology in Munich, with a dissertation on the mechanisms by which the brain affects coronary blood flow in the heart during psychological stress. After moving to the US, he completed his specialty training as a gastroenterologist at UCLA and from then on focused his work on basic, translational, and clinical aspects of brain gut interactions. He has 30 years of experience studying clinical and neurobiological aspects of how the digestive and nervous systems interact in health and disease. In the United States Mayer found strong support from the U.S. government via National Institutes of Health (NIH) grants.\n\nMayer is the Executive Director of the Oppenheimer Family Center for Neurobiology of Stress, and Co-director of the CURE: Digestive Diseases Research Center at UCLA. As one of the pioneers and leading researchers in the role of mind-brain-body interactions in health and chronic disease, his scientific contributions to U.S. national and international communities in the broad area of basic and translational enteric neurobiology with wide-ranging applications in clinical GI diseases and disorders is unparalleled. He has a longstanding interest in ancient healing traditions and affords them a level of respect rarely found in Western Medicine. He has personally practiced different mind based strategies, including Zen meditation, Ericksonian hypnosis, and autogenic training. More recently he has focused on several new areas of brain gut interactions, including the role of food addiction in obesity, the role of the brain in inflammatory bowel disorders such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, and on the role of the gut microbiota in influencing brain structure and function, as he explained on National Public Radio. Most recently, Dr. Mayer spoke at UCLA TEDx on The Mysterious Origins of Gut Feelings.\n\n\nMayer lives in Los Angeles, California. He is married to Minou Mayer and has one son, Emeran Dylan Mayer.\n"}
{"id": "2924842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2924842", "title": "Evelyn Fox Keller", "text": "Evelyn Fox Keller\n\nEvelyn Fox Keller (born March 20, 1936) is an American physicist, author and feminist. She is currently Professor Emerita of History and Philosophy of Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Keller's early work concentrated at the intersection of physics and biology. Her subsequent research has focused on the history and philosophy of modern biology and on gender and science.\n\nBorn in Jackson Heights, Queens to immigrants from Russia, Keller grew up in Woodside, Queens. She received her B.A. in physics from Brandeis University in 1957 and continued her studies in theoretical physics at Harvard University graduating with a Ph.D. in 1963. She became interested in molecular biology during a visit to Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory while completing her Ph.D. dissertation. Keller has also taught at Northeastern University, Cornell University, University of Maryland, Northwestern University, Princeton University, State University of New York at Purchase, New York University and in the department of rhetoric at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nIn 2007 Keller sat on the USA advisory board of FFIPP (Faculty for Israeli-Palestinian Peace-USA), a network of Palestinian, Israeli, and International faculty, and students, working for an end of the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories and just peace.\n\nShe first encountered feminism as a discipline while attending a conference entitled \"Women and the Scientific Profession.\" At this conference, Erik Erikson and Bruno Bettelheim argued for more women in science based on the invaluable contributions a \"specifically female genius\" could make to science. Four years later, in 1969, she compiled an array of data on the experiences of women scientists and put together an argument about women in (or out of) science, based on \"women's nature.\" She had been feeling disenchantment from her colleague publishing her team's work and she had not realized the reason behind it until she did her research.\n\nIn 1974 Keller taught her first women's studies course. Shortly after, she was invited to give a series of lectures on her work. She had never shared her personal experiences of her story of what it was like for her as a woman becoming a scientist and this lecture marked the beginning of her work as a feminist critic of science. It raised three central questions that marked her research and writing over the next decade.\n\nOne of her major works was a contribution to the book \"The Gender and Science Reader\". Keller's article, entitled \"Secrets of God, Nature, and Life\" links issues in feminism back to the Scientific Revolution in the 17th Century and the Industrial Revolution in the 18th Century. In this work, she quotes Boyle. \"It may seem an ingrateful and unfilial thing to dispute against nature, that is taken by mankind for the common parent of us all. But although it be as undutiful thing, to express a want of respect for an acknowledged parent, yet I know not, why it may not be allowable to question one, that a man looks upon but as a pretend one; and it appear to me, that she is so, I think it my duty to pay my gratitude, not to I know not what, but to that deity, whose wisdom and goodness...designed to make me a man.\" (pg. 103) By Keller addressing Boyle's quote in this aspect, she alludes to how as soon as questionable aspects are displayed in nature, \"nature\" becomes \"nature\" and is then feminine.\n\nEvelyn Fox Keller has documented how the masculine-identified public sphere and the feminine-identified private sphere have structured thinking in two areas of evolutionary biology: population genetics and mathematical ecology. Her concern is to show how the selection process that occurs in the context of discovery limits what we come to know. Keller argues that the assumption that the atomistic individual is the fundamental unit in nature has led population geneticists to omit sexual reproduction from their models. Though the critique of misplaced individualism is nothing new, the gender dynamics Keller reveals are. According to Keller, geneticists treat reproduction as if individuals reproduce themselves, effectively bypassing the complexities of sexual difference, the contingencies of mating, and fertilization. She likens the biologists' atomistic individual to heuristic individual portrayed by mainstream Western political and economic theorists. Keller argues further that biologists use values ascribed to the public sphere of Western culture to depict relations between individuals (while values generally attributed to the private sphere to describe relations are confused to the interior of an individual organism.) \n\nSome scholars who study women in science have criticized the version of gender and science theory that was pioneered by Keller. Ann Hibner Koblitz has argued that Keller's theory fails to account for the great variation among different cultures and time periods. For example, the first generation of women to receive advanced university degrees in Europe were almost entirely in the natural sciences and medicine—in part because those fields at the time were much more welcoming of women than were the humanities. Koblitz and others who are interested in increasing the number of women in science have expressed concern that some of Keller's statements could undermine those efforts, notably the following:\n\nAmong the critics of Keller's gender and science theory are the mathematical physicist Mary Beth Ruskai, the former presidents of the Association for Women in Mathematics Lenore Blum and Mary Gray, and gender researchers Pnina Abir-Am and Dorinda Outram.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20701483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20701483", "title": "George Sher", "text": "George Sher\n\nGeorge Sher is a moral philosopher and political philosopher who has taught at Rice University since 1991. He chaired the department from 1993–2000.\n\nSher earned his bachelor's degree at Brandeis University and his Ph.D. in Philosophy from Columbia University in 1972. His work has largely focused on liberalism, perfectionism, and issues in moral psychology. He is married to essayist and novelist Emily Fox Gordon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61626", "title": "Gersonides", "text": "Gersonides\n\nLevi ben Gershon (1288–1344), better known by his Graecized name as Gersonides, or by his Latinized name Magister Leo Hebraeus, or in Hebrew by the abbreviation of first letters as RaLBaG, was a medieval French Jewish philosopher, Talmudist, mathematician, physician and astronomer/astrologer. He was born at Bagnols in Languedoc, France. According to Abraham Zacuto and others, he was the son of Gerson ben Solomon Catalan.\n\nAs in the case of the other medieval Jewish philosophers little is known of his life. His family had been distinguished for piety and exegetical skill in Talmud, but though he was known in the Jewish community by commentaries on certain books of the Bible, he never seems to have accepted any rabbinical post. It has been suggested that the uniqueness of his opinions may have put obstacles in the way of his advancement to a higher position or office. He is known to have been at Avignon and Orange during his life, and is believed to have died in 1344, though Zacuto asserts that he died at Perpignan in 1370.\n\nRabbi Levi is known for his unorthodox views and rigid Aristotelianism which eventually led him to rationalize many of the miracles in the bible. His commentary on the Bible was sharply criticized by the most prominent scholars, such as Abarbanel, Chisdai Crescas, Rivash, the latter accusing him of heresy and almost banning his works.\n\nPart of his writings consist of commentaries on the portions of Aristotle then known, or rather of commentaries on the commentaries of Averroes. Some of these are printed in the early Latin editions of Aristotle’s works. His most important treatise, that by which he has a place in the history of philosophy, is entitled \"Sefer Milhamot Ha-Shem\", (\"The Wars of the Lord\"), and occupied twelve years in composition (1317–1329). A portion of it, containing an elaborate survey of astronomy as known to the Arabs, was translated into Latin in 1342 at the request of Pope Clement VI.\n\n\"The Wars of the Lord\" is modeled after the plan of the great work of Jewish philosophy, the \"Guide for the Perplexed\" of Maimonides. It may be regarded as a criticism of some elements of Maimonides' syncretism of Aristotelianism and rabbinic Jewish thought. Ralbag's treatise strictly adhered to Aristotelian thought. The \"Wars of the Lord\" review:\n\nGersonides was also the author of commentaries on the Pentateuch, Joshua, Judges, I & II Samuel, I & II Kings, Proverbs, Job, Ecclesiastes, Song of Songs, Ruth, Esther, Daniel, Ezra-Nehemiah, and Chronicles. He makes reference to a commentary on Isaiah, but it is not extant.\n\nIn contrast to the theology held by other Jewish thinkers, Jewish theologian Louis Jacobs argues, Gersonides held that God does not have complete foreknowledge of human acts. \"Gersonides, bothered by the old question of how God's foreknowledge is compatible with human freedom, holds that what God knows beforehand is all the choices open to each individual. God does not know, however, which choice the individual, in his freedom, will make.\"\n\nAnother neoclassical Jewish proponent of self-limited omniscience was Abraham ibn Daud. \"Whereas the earlier Jewish philosophers extended the omniscience of God to include the free acts of man, and had argued that human freedom of decision was not affected by God's foreknowledge of its results, Ibn Daud, evidently following Alexander of Aphrodisias, excludes human action from divine foreknowledge. God, he holds, limited his omniscience even as He limited His omnipotence in regard to human acts\".\n\nRabbi Yeshayahu Horowitz explained the apparent paradox of his position by citing the old question, \"Can God create a rock so heavy that He cannot pick it up?\" He said that we cannot accept free choice as a creation of God's, and simultaneously question its logical compatibility with omnipotence.\n\nSee further discussion in \"Free will in Jewish thought\".\n\nGersonides posits that people's souls are composed of two parts: a material, or human, intellect; and an acquired, or agent, intellect. The material intellect is inherent in every person, and gives people the capacity to understand and learn. This material intellect is mortal, and dies with the body. However, he also posits that the soul also has an acquired intellect. This survives death, and can contain the accumulated knowledge that the person acquired during their lifetime. For Gersonides, Seymour Feldman points out, \"Man is immortal insofar as he attains the intellectual perfection that is open to him. This means that man becomes immortal only if and to the extent that he acquires knowledge of what he can in principle know, e.g. mathematics and the natural sciences. This knowledge survives his bodily death and constitutes his immortality.\"\n\nGersonides wrote \"Maaseh Hoshev\" in 1321 dealing with arithmetical operations including extraction of square and cube roots, various algebraic identities, certain sums including sums of consecutive integers, squares, and cubes, binomial coefficients, and simple combinatorial identities. The work is notable for its early use of proof by mathematical induction, and pioneering work in combinatorics. The title Maaseh Hoshev literally means a Work of Calculation, but it is also a pun on a biblical phrase meaning \"clever work\". Maaseh Hoshev is sometimes mistakenly referred to as Sefer Hamispar (The Book of Number), which is an earlier and less sophisticated work by Rabbi Abraham ben Meir ibn Ezra (1090–1167). In 1342, Levi wrote \"On Sines, Chords and Arcs\", which examined trigonometry, in particular proving the sine law for plane triangles and giving five-figure sine tables.\n\nOne year later, at the request of the bishop of Meaux, he wrote \"The Harmony of Numbers\" in which he considers a problem of Philippe de Vitry involving so-called \"harmonic numbers\", which have the form 2·3. The problem was to characterize all pairs of harmonic numbers differing by 1. Gersonides proved that there are only four such pairs: (1,2), (2,3), (3,4) and (8,9).\n\nHe is also credited to have invented the Jacob's staff, an instrument to measure the angular distance between celestial objects. It is described as consisting \n\nLevi observed a solar eclipse on March 3, 1337. After he had observed this event he proposed a new theory of the sun which he proceeded to test by further observations. Another eclipse observed by Levi was the eclipse of the Moon on 3 October 1335. He described a geometrical model for the motion of the Moon and made other astronomical observations of the Moon, Sun and planets using a camera obscura.\n\nSome of his beliefs were well wide of the truth, such as his belief that the Milky Way was on the sphere of the fixed stars and shines by the reflected light of the Sun. Gersonides was also the earliest known mathematician to have used the technique of mathematical induction in a systematic and self-conscious fashion and anticipated Galileo’s error theory.\n\nThe lunar crater Rabbi Levi is named after him.\n\nGersonides believed that astrology was real, and developed a naturalistic, non-supernatural explanation of how it works. Julius Guttman explained that for Gersonides, astrology was:\n\nGersonides is the only astronomer before modern times to have estimated correctly stellar distances. Whereas all other astronomers put the stars on a rotating sphere just beyond the outer planets, Gersonides estimated the distance to the stars to be ten billion times greater, of the order of 100 light-years (in modern units).\n\nUsing data he collected from his own observations, Gersonides refuted Ptolemy's model in what the notable physicist Yuval Ne'eman has considered as \"one of the most important insights in the history of science, generally missed in telling the story of the transition from epicyclic corrections to the geocentric model to Copernicus' heliocentric model\". Ne'eman argued that after Gersonides reviewed Ptolemy's model with its epicycles he realized that it could be checked, by measuring the changes in the apparent brightnesses of Mars and looking for cyclical changes along the conjectured epicycles. These thus ceased being dogma, they were a theory that had to be experimentally verified, \"a la Popper\". R. Levi developed tools for these measurements, essentially pinholes and the camera obscura.\n\nThe results of his observations did not fit Ptolemy's model at all. Concluding that the model was inadequate, Gersonides tried (unsuccessfully) to improve on it. That challenge was finally answered, of course, by Copernicus three centuries later, but Gersonides was the first to falsify the Alexandrian dogma - the first known instance of modern falsification philosophy. Levi also showed that Ptolemy's model for the Lunar orbit, though reproducing correctly the evolution of the Moon's position, fails completely in predicting the apparent sizes of the Moon in its motion. Unfortunately, there is no evidence that the findings influenced later generations of astronomers, even though Gersonides' writings were translated and available.\n\nOnly the first work is extant.\n\nGersonides is an important character in the novel \"The Dream of Scipio\" by Iain Pears, where he is depicted as the mentor of the protagonist Olivier de Noyen, a non-Jewish poet and intellectual. A (fictional) encounter between Gersonides and Pope Clement VI at Avignon during the Black Death is a major element in the book's plot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11231538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11231538", "title": "Heavenly Mother", "text": "Heavenly Mother\n\nIn some religious traditions or movements, Heavenly Mother (also referred to as \"Mother in Heaven\" or Sky Mother) is the wife or feminine counterpart of the Sky father or God the Father. \nTeachings about the \"Heavenly Mother\" are promulgated by various religious groups, to one degree or another.\n\nIn Egyptian mythology, sky goddess Nut is sometimes called \"Mother\" because she bore stars and Sun god.\n\nNut was thought to draw the dead into her star-filled sky, and refresh them with food and wine.\n\nIn the Ascended Master Teachings, a group of religions based on Theosophy, the Heavenly Mother is called Omega.\n\nOrthodox Christians believe Mary received her resurrection early near after her death (see Dormition of the Mother of God), while Roman Catholics generally believe that Mary was assumed, body and soul without death or the need for resurrection, into Heaven, referred to as the Assumption of Mary. This could make her a \"heavenly mother\" of sorts, as she gave birth to Jesus, and was confirmed to bear the title \"Theotokos\" (\"giver of birth to God\") at the Council of Ephesus in AD 431. However, she is more often referred to as \"Our Mother\", since Christians alike refer to themselves as \"Brothers and Sisters in Christ\". There is a parallel in calling Mary \"Our Mother\" as calling God \"Our Father\", though there is a Pater Noster but no \"Mater Nostra\". Mary is not considered the \"Heavenly Mother\", the same way that God the Father is referred to as the \"Heavenly Father\". In Roman Catholic belief Mary, although highly venerated as the first among the Saints, is never viewed on an equal status with God (cf. the Scholastic Catholic hyperdulia vs. latria distinction), rather she is viewed by some Catholics, but not as a matter of dogma, as Mediatrix and Co-Redemptrix with Christ.In the catecism of the Catholic Church, it states that Mary is a Co redeemer with Christ.\n\nIn the Latter Day Saint movement, particularly The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, many adherents believe in a Heavenly Mother as the wife of God the Father. The theology varies, however, according to denomination. The only clear declaration regarding a Heavenly Mother figure is that she exists. Some offshoot denominations disavow a belief in her, some do not make her a part of the official doctrine, and others openly acknowledge her.\n\nCollyridianism was a heretical Christian sect. Collyridians worshipped the Virgin Mary as their Heavenly Mother and as a Goddess. The Catholic Church condemned the Collyridians of Marian Heresies, holding that Mary was to be venerated but not adored like God.\nThe Collyridian service was similar to that of the Catholic Mass, except that the sacramental bread was not considered Christ, or a sacrifice to God, but a sacrifice to the Virgin Mary. Epiphanius of Salamis wrote about the Collyridianism and their multiple heresies against the Catholic Church in his work entitled \"Panarion\".\n\nIn the Unification Church some members occasionally address God as \"Heavenly Mother\" when emphasizing the divine attribute of femininity, but not indicating a distinct person. Unificationists consider God a unified being of masculine and feminine characteristics, but they nearly always address God (in prayer) using masculine references and refer to Him as \"Father\" or \"Heavenly Father.\"\n\nThe World Mission Society Church of God is a Korean group founded by Ahn Sahng-hong (안상홍, 安商洪). The church believes that, Ahn Sahng-hong is the second coming of Christ because of prophecies in the Bible that were fulfilled. Zahng Gil Jah is the spiritual wife of God making her the heavenly new Jerusalem Mother.\n\nIn the Hindu context, the worship of the Mother deity can be traced back to early Vedic culture, and perhaps even before. The Rigveda calls the divine female power Mahimata (R.V. 1.164.33), literally Great Mother and also called Mother Earth. In places, the Vedic literature alludes to her as Viraj, the universal mother, as Aditi, the mother of gods, and as Ambhrini, the one born of the Primeval Ocean. Durga, the wife of Shiva, is a warrior goddess who represents the empowering and protective nature of motherhood. An incarnation of Durga is Kali, who came from her forehead during war (as a means of defeating Durga's enemy, Mahishasura). Durga and her incarnations are particularly worshipped in Bengal.\n\nToday, Devi is seen in manifold forms, all representing the creative force in the world, as \"Maya\" and \"prakṛti\", the force that galvanizes the divine ground of existence into self-projection as the cosmos. She is not merely the Earth, though even this perspective is covered by Parvati (Durga's previous incarnation). All the various Hindu female entities are seen as forming many faces of the same female Divinity.\n\nExamples of God having wives or other feminine counterparts have appeared in popular culture.\n\nIn the series \"Supernatural\", God has a sister known as the Darkness.  She is the \"yin\" to God's \"yang\", described by God in the series as being to 'nothingness' as God himself is to 'being' and to 'darkness' as God himself is to 'light.'\n\nIn the series \"Lucifer\", based on the comic of the same name, God has an exiled wife.  She is described in the series as the mother of the angels and co-creator of the universe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46865309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46865309", "title": "Henri Grenier", "text": "Henri Grenier\n\nHenri Grenier (20 May 1899 – 5 May 1980) was a French Canadian priest, theologian, and philosopher. He was the author of a manual of Thomistic philosophy, once widely used in Roman Catholic seminaries.\n\nGrenier was born in Gaspé, Quebec, and ordained for the diocese of Gaspé in 1924. He studied philosophy at the Angelicum in Rome (1924-1926), and at the major seminary in Gaspé (1926-1927). From 1927-1930 he studied theology at the Angelicum and Canon law at the Pontifical Lateran University. He held doctorates in philosophy, theology, and canon law. From 1930 to 1947 he was professor of theology at the seminary of Québec. In 1938 he was incardinated in the diocese of Québec. He spent a year in Oklahoma, 1944-1945. He was for many years professor of philosophy at the Université Laval.\n\nGrenier's \"Cursus Philosophiae\" was originally written in Latin, and was then translated into French and English. Gavan Monaghan called the publication of the \"Cursus\" \"a milestone in the teaching of thomistic philosophy.\" \"The Thomist\" praised the \"Cursus\" for adhering faithfully to \"the mind and teaching of St. Thomas and Aristotle.\" Along with Charles De Koninck and Louis Lachance, Grenier was a prominent Thomist critic of personalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "248859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248859", "title": "Herbert Spencer", "text": "Herbert Spencer\n\nHerbert Spencer (27 April 1820 – 8 December 1903) was an English philosopher, biologist, anthropologist, sociologist, and prominent classical liberal political theorist of the Victorian era.\n\nSpencer developed an all-embracing conception of evolution as the progressive development of the physical world, biological organisms, the human mind, and human culture and societies. As a polymath, he contributed to a wide range of subjects, including ethics, religion, anthropology, economics, political theory, philosophy, literature, astronomy, biology, sociology, and psychology. During his lifetime he achieved tremendous authority, mainly in English-speaking academia. \"The only other English philosopher to have achieved anything like such widespread popularity was Bertrand Russell, and that was in the 20th century.\" Spencer was \"the single most famous European intellectual in the closing decades of the nineteenth century\" but his influence declined sharply after 1900: \"Who now reads Spencer?\" asked Talcott Parsons in 1937.\n\nSpencer is best known for the expression \"survival of the fittest\", which he coined in \"Principles of Biology\" (1864), after reading Charles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\". This term strongly suggests natural selection, yet as Spencer extended evolution into realms of sociology and ethics, he also made use of Lamarckism.\n\nSpencer was born in Derby, England, on 27 April 1820, the son of William George Spencer (generally called George). Spencer's father was a religious dissenter who drifted from Methodism to Quakerism, and who seems to have transmitted to his son an opposition to all forms of authority. He ran a school founded on the progressive teaching methods of Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi and also served as Secretary of the Derby Philosophical Society, a scientific society which had been founded in 1783 by Erasmus Darwin, the grandfather of Charles Darwin.\n\nSpencer was educated in empirical science by his father, while the members of the Derby Philosophical Society introduced him to pre-Darwinian concepts of biological evolution, particularly those of Erasmus Darwin and Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. His uncle, the Reverend Thomas Spencer, vicar of Hinton Charterhouse near Bath, completed Spencer's limited formal education by teaching him some mathematics and physics, and enough Latin to enable him to translate some easy texts. Thomas Spencer also imprinted on his nephew his own firm free-trade and anti-statist political views. Otherwise, Spencer was an autodidact who acquired most of his knowledge from narrowly focused readings and conversations with his friends and acquaintances.\n\nBoth as an adolescent and as a young man, Spencer found it difficult to settle to any intellectual or professional discipline. He worked as a civil engineer during the railway boom of the late 1830s, while also devoting much of his time to writing for provincial journals that were nonconformist in their religion and radical in their politics. From 1848 to 1853 he served as sub-editor on the free-trade journal \"The Economist\", during which time he published his first book, \"Social Statics\" (1851), which predicted that humanity would eventually become completely adapted to the requirements of living in society with the consequential withering away of the state.\n\nIts publisher, John Chapman, introduced Spencer to his salon which was attended by many of the leading radical and progressive thinkers of the capital, including John Stuart Mill, Harriet Martineau, George Henry Lewes and Mary Ann Evans (George Eliot), with whom he was briefly romantically linked. Spencer himself introduced the biologist Thomas Henry Huxley, who would later win fame as 'Darwin's Bulldog' and who remained his lifelong friend. However it was the friendship of Evans and Lewes that acquainted him with John Stuart Mill's \"A System of Logic\" and with Auguste Comte's positivism and which set him on the road to his life's work. He strongly disagreed with Comte.\n\nThe first fruit of his friendship with Evans and Lewes was Spencer's second book, \"Principles of Psychology\", published in 1855, which explored a physiological basis for psychology. The book was founded on the fundamental assumption that the human mind was subject to natural laws and that these could be discovered within the framework of general biology. This permitted the adoption of a developmental perspective not merely in terms of the individual (as in traditional psychology), but also of the species and the race. Through this paradigm, Spencer aimed to reconcile the associationist psychology of Mill's \"Logic\", the notion that human mind was constructed from atomic sensations held together by the laws of the association of ideas, with the apparently more 'scientific' theory of phrenology, which located specific mental functions in specific parts of the brain.\n\nSpencer argued that both these theories were partial accounts of the truth: repeated associations of ideas were embodied in the formation of specific strands of brain tissue, and these could be passed from one generation to the next by means of the Lamarckian mechanism of use-inheritance. The \"Psychology\", he believed, would do for the human mind what Isaac Newton had done for matter. However, the book was not initially successful and the last of the 251 copies of its first edition was not sold until June 1861.\n\nSpencer's interest in psychology derived from a more fundamental concern which was to establish the universality of natural law. In common with others of his generation, including the members of Chapman's salon, he was possessed with the idea of demonstrating that it was possible to show that everything in the universe – including human culture, language, and morality – could be explained by laws of universal validity. This was in contrast to the views of many theologians of the time who insisted that some parts of creation, in particular the human soul, were beyond the realm of scientific investigation. Comte's \"Système de Philosophie Positive\" had been written with the ambition of demonstrating the universality of natural law, and Spencer was to follow Comte in the scale of his ambition. However, Spencer differed from Comte in believing it was possible to discover a single law of universal application which he identified with progressive development and was to call the principle of evolution.\n\nIn 1858 Spencer produced an outline of what was to become the System of Synthetic Philosophy. This immense undertaking, which has few parallels in the English language, aimed to demonstrate that the principle of evolution applied in biology, psychology, sociology (Spencer appropriated Comte's term for the new discipline) and morality. Spencer envisaged that this work of ten volumes would take twenty years to complete; in the end it took him twice as long and consumed almost all the rest of his long life.\n\nDespite Spencer's early struggles to establish himself as a writer, by the 1870s he had become the most famous philosopher of the age. His works were widely read during his lifetime, and by 1869 he was able to support himself solely on the profit of book sales and on income from his regular contributions to Victorian periodicals which were collected as three volumes of \"Essays\". His works were translated into German, Italian, Spanish, French, Russian, Japanese and Chinese, and into many other languages and he was offered honours and awards all over Europe and North America. He also became a member of the Athenaeum, an exclusive Gentleman's Club in London open only to those distinguished in the arts and sciences, and the X Club, a dining club of nine founded by T.H. Huxley that met every month and included some of the most prominent thinkers of the Victorian age (three of whom would become presidents of the Royal Society).\n\nMembers included physicist-philosopher John Tyndall and Darwin's cousin, the banker and biologist Sir John Lubbock. There were also some quite significant satellites such as liberal clergyman Arthur Stanley, the Dean of Westminster; and guests such as Charles Darwin and Hermann von Helmholtz were entertained from time to time. Through such associations, Spencer had a strong presence in the heart of the scientific community and was able to secure an influential audience for his views. Despite his growing wealth and fame he never owned a house of his own.\n\nThe last decades of Spencer's life were characterised by growing disillusionment and loneliness. He never married, and after 1855 was a perpetual hypochondriac who complained endlessly of pains and maladies that no physician could diagnose. By the 1890s his readership had begun to desert him while many of his closest friends died and he had come to doubt the confident faith in progress that he had made the center-piece of his philosophical system. His later years were also ones in which his political views became increasingly conservative. Whereas \"Social Statics\" had been the work of a radical democrat who believed in votes for women (and even for children) and in the nationalisation of the land to break the power of the aristocracy, by the 1880s he had become a staunch opponent of female suffrage and made common cause with the landowners of the Liberty and Property Defence League against what they saw as the drift towards 'socialism' of elements (such as Sir William Harcourt) within the administration of William Ewart Gladstone – largely against the opinions of Gladstone himself. Spencer's political views from this period were expressed in what has become his most famous work, \"The Man Versus the State\".\n\nThe exception to Spencer's growing conservativism was that he remained throughout his life an ardent opponent of imperialism and militarism. His critique of the Boer War was especially scathing, and it contributed to his declining popularity in Britain.\n\nSpencer also invented a precursor to the modern paper clip, though it looked more like a modern cotter pin. This \"binding-pin\" was distributed by Ackermann & Company. Spencer shows drawings of the pin in Appendix I (following Appendix H) of his autobiography along with published descriptions of its uses.\n\nIn 1902, shortly before his death, Spencer was nominated for the Nobel Prize for literature. He continued writing all his life, in later years often by dictation, until he succumbed to poor health at the age of 83. His ashes are interred in the eastern side of London's Highgate Cemetery facing Karl Marx's grave. At Spencer's funeral the Indian nationalist leader Shyamji Krishnavarma announced a donation of £1,000 to establish a lectureship at Oxford University in tribute to Spencer and his work.\n\nThe basis for Spencer's appeal to many of his generation was that he appeared to offer a ready-made system of belief which could substitute for conventional religious faith at a time when orthodox creeds were crumbling under the advances of modern science. Spencer's philosophical system seemed to demonstrate that it was possible to believe in the ultimate perfection of humanity on the basis of advanced scientific conceptions such as the first law of thermodynamics and biological evolution.\n\nIn essence Spencer's philosophical vision was formed by a combination of deism and positivism. On the one hand, he had imbibed something of eighteenth century deism from his father and other members of the Derby Philosophical Society and from books like George Combe's immensely popular \"The Constitution of Man\" (1828). This treated the world as a cosmos of benevolent design, and the laws of nature as the decrees of a 'Being transcendentally kind.' Natural laws were thus the statutes of a well governed universe that had been decreed by the Creator with the intention of promoting human happiness. Although Spencer lost his Christian faith as a teenager and later rejected any 'anthropomorphic' conception of the Deity, he nonetheless held fast to this conception at an almost sub-conscious level. At the same time, however, he owed far more than he would ever acknowledge to positivism, in particular in its conception of a philosophical system as the unification of the various branches of scientific knowledge. He also followed positivism in his insistence that it was only possible to have genuine knowledge of phenomena and hence that it was idle to speculate about the nature of the ultimate reality. The tension between positivism and his residual deism ran through the entire System of Synthetic Philosophy.\n\nSpencer followed Comte in aiming for the unification of scientific truth; it was in this sense that his philosophy aimed to be 'synthetic.' Like Comte, he was committed to the universality of natural law, the idea that the laws of nature applied without exception, to the organic realm as much as to the inorganic, and to the human mind as much as to the rest of creation. The first objective of the Synthetic Philosophy was thus to demonstrate that there were no exceptions to being able to discover scientific explanations, in the form of natural laws, of all the phenomena of the universe. Spencer's volumes on biology, psychology, and sociology were all intended to demonstrate the existence of natural laws in these specific disciplines. Even in his writings on ethics, he held that it was possible to discover 'laws' of morality that had the status of laws of nature while still having normative content, a conception which can be traced to George Combe's \"Constitution of Man\".\n\nThe second objective of the Synthetic Philosophy was to show that these same laws led inexorably to progress. In contrast to Comte, who stressed only the unity of scientific method, Spencer sought the unification of scientific knowledge in the form of the reduction of all natural laws to one fundamental law, the law of evolution. In this respect, he followed the model laid down by the Edinburgh publisher Robert Chambers in his anonymous \"Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation\" (1844). Although often dismissed as a lightweight forerunner of Charles Darwin's \"The Origin of Species\", Chambers' book was in reality a programme for the unification of science which aimed to show that Laplace's nebular hypothesis for the origin of the solar system and Lamarck's theory of species transformation were both instances (in Lewes' phrase) of 'one magnificent generalisation of progressive development.' Chambers was associated with Chapman's salon and his work served as the unacknowledged template for the Synthetic Philosophy.\n\nSpencer first articulated his evolutionary perspective in his essay, 'Progress: Its Law and Cause', published in Chapman's \"Westminster Review\" in 1857, and which later formed the basis of the \"First Principles of a New System of Philosophy\" (1862). In it he expounded a theory of evolution which combined insights from Samuel Taylor Coleridge's essay 'The Theory of Life' – itself derivative from Friedrich von Schelling's Naturphilosophie – with a generalisation of von Baer's law of embryological development. Spencer posited that all structures in the universe develop from a simple, undifferentiated, homogeneity to a complex, differentiated, heterogeneity, while being accompanied by a process of greater integration of the differentiated parts. This evolutionary process could be found at work, Spencer believed, throughout the cosmos. It was a universal law, that was applying to the stars and the galaxies as much as to biological organisms, and to human social organisation as much as to the human mind. It differed from other scientific laws only by its greater generality, and the laws of the special sciences could be shown to be illustrations of this principle.\n\nHowever, as Bertrand Russell stated in a letter to Beatrice Webb in 1923, this formulation has problems: 'I don't know whether [Spencer] was ever made to realise the implications of the second law of thermodynamics; if so, he may well be upset. The law says that everything tends to uniformity and a dead level, diminishing (not increasing) heterogeneity'.\n\nSpencer's attempt to explain the evolution of complexity was radically different from that to be found in Darwin's \"Origin of Species\" which was published two years later. Spencer is often, quite erroneously, believed to have merely appropriated and generalised Darwin's work on natural selection. But although after reading Darwin's work he coined the phrase 'survival of the fittest' as his own term for Darwin's concept, and is often misrepresented as a thinker who merely applied the Darwinian theory to society, he only grudgingly incorporated natural selection into his preexisting overall system. The primary mechanism of species transformation that he recognised was Lamarckian use-inheritance which posited that organs are developed or are diminished by use or disuse and that the resulting changes may be transmitted to future generations. Spencer believed that this evolutionary mechanism was also necessary to explain 'higher' evolution, especially the social development of humanity. Moreover, in contrast to Darwin, he held that evolution had a direction and an end-point, the attainment of a final state of equilibrium. He tried to apply the theory of biological evolution to sociology. He proposed that society was the product of change from lower to higher forms, just as in the theory of biological evolution, the lowest forms of life are said to be evolving into higher forms. Spencer claimed that man's mind had evolved in the same way from the simple automatic responses of lower animals to the process of reasoning in the thinking man. Spencer believed in two kinds of knowledge: knowledge gained by the individual and knowledge gained by the race. Intuition, or knowledge learned unconsciously, was the inherited experience of the race.\n\nSpencer in his book \"Principles of Biology\" (1864), proposed a pangenesis theory that involved \"physiological units\" assumed to be related to specific body parts and responsible for the transmission of characteristics to offspring. These hypothetical hereditary units were similar to Darwin's gemmules.\n\nSpencer read with excitement the original positivist sociology of Auguste Comte. A philosopher of science, Comte had proposed a theory of sociocultural evolution that society progresses by a general law of three stages. Writing after various developments in biology, however, Spencer rejected what he regarded as the ideological aspects of Comte's positivism, attempting to reformulate social science in terms of his principle of evolution, which he applied to the biological, psychological and sociological aspects of the universe.\n\nGiven the primacy which Spencer placed on evolution, his sociology might be described as social Darwinism mixed with Lamarckism. However, despite its popularity, this view of Spencer's sociology is mistaken. While his political and ethical writings had themes consistent with social Darwinism, such themes are absent in Spencer's sociological works, which focus on how processes of societal growth and differentiation lead to changing degrees of complexity in social organization \n\nThe evolutionary progression from simple, undifferentiated homogeneity to complex, differentiated heterogeneity was exemplified, Spencer argued, by the development of society. He developed a theory of two types of society, the militant and the industrial, which corresponded to this evolutionary progression. Militant society, structured around relationships of hierarchy and obedience, was simple and undifferentiated; industrial society, based on voluntary, contractually assumed social obligations, was complex and differentiated. Society, which Spencer conceptualised as a 'social organism' evolved from the simpler state to the more complex according to the universal law of evolution. Moreover, industrial society was the direct descendant of the ideal society developed in \"Social Statics\", although Spencer now equivocated over whether the evolution of society would result in anarchism (as he had first believed) or whether it pointed to a continued role for the state, albeit one reduced to the minimal functions of the enforcement of contracts and external defence.\n\nThough Spencer made some valuable contributions to early sociology, not least in his influence on structural functionalism, his attempt to introduce Lamarckian or Darwinian ideas into the realm of sociology was unsuccessful. It was considered by many, furthermore, to be actively dangerous. Hermeneuticians of the period, such as Wilhelm Dilthey, would pioneer the distinction between the natural sciences (\"Naturwissenschaften\") and human sciences (\"Geisteswissenschaften\"). In the United States, the sociologist Lester Frank Ward, who would be elected as the first president of the American Sociological Association, launched a relentless attack on Spencer's theories of laissez-faire and political ethics. Although Ward admired much of Spencer's work he believed that Spencer's prior political biases had distorted his thought and had led him astray. In the 1890s, Émile Durkheim established formal academic sociology with a firm emphasis on practical social research. By the turn of the 20th century the first generation of German sociologists, most notably Max Weber, had presented methodological antipositivism. However, it should be noted that Spencer's theories of laissez-faire, survival-of-the-fittest and minimal human interference in the processes of natural law had an enduring and even increasing appeal in the social science fields of economics and political science, and one writer has recently made the case for Spencer's importance for a sociology that must learn to take energy in society seriously.\n\nSpencer's reputation among the Victorians owed a great deal to his agnosticism. He rejected theology as representing the 'impiety of the pious.' He was to gain much notoriety from his repudiation of traditional religion, and was frequently condemned by religious thinkers for allegedly advocating atheism and materialism. Nonetheless, unlike Thomas Henry Huxley, whose agnosticism was a militant creed directed at 'the unpardonable sin of faith' (in Adrian Desmond's phrase), Spencer insisted that he was not concerned to undermine religion in the name of science, but to bring about a reconciliation of the two. The following argument is a summary of Part 1 of his \"First Principles\" (2nd ed 1867).\n\nStarting either from religious belief or from science, Spencer argued, we are ultimately driven to accept certain indispensable but literally inconceivable notions. Whether we are concerned with a Creator or the substratum which underlies our experience of phenomena, we can frame no conception of it. Therefore, Spencer concluded, religion and science agree in the supreme truth that the human understanding is only capable of 'relative' knowledge. This is the case since, owing to the inherent limitations of the human mind, it is only possible to obtain knowledge of phenomena, not of the reality ('the absolute') underlying phenomena. Hence both science and religion must come to recognise as the 'most certain of all facts that the Power which the Universe manifests to us is utterly inscrutable.' He called this awareness of 'the Unknowable' and he presented worship of the Unknowable as capable of being a positive faith which could substitute for conventional religion. Indeed, he thought that the Unknowable represented the ultimate stage in the evolution of religion, the final elimination of its last anthropomorphic vestiges.\n\nSpencerian views in 21st century circulation derive from his political theories and memorable attacks on the reform movements of the late 19th century. He has been claimed as a precursor by libertarians and anarcho-capitalists. Economist Murray Rothbard called \"Social Statics\" \"the greatest single work of libertarian political philosophy ever written.\" Spencer argued that the state was not an \"essential\" institution and that it would \"decay\" as voluntary market organisation would replace the coercive aspects of the state. He also argued that the individual had a \"right to ignore the state.\" As a result of this perspective, Spencer was harshly critical of patriotism. In response to being told that British troops were in danger during the Second Afghan War (1878-1880) he replied: \"When men hire themselves out to shoot other men to order, asking nothing about the justice of their cause, I don't care if they are shot themselves.\"\n\nPolitics in late Victorian Britain moved in directions that Spencer disliked, and his arguments provided so much ammunition for conservatives and individualists in Europe and America that they are still in use in the 21st century. The expression 'There is no alternative' (TINA), made famous by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, may be traced to its emphatic use by Spencer.\n\nBy the 1880s he was denouncing \"the new Toryism\" (that is, the \"social reformist wing\" of the Liberal party – the wing to some extent hostile to Prime Minister William Ewart Gladstone, this faction of the Liberal party Spencer compared to the interventionist \"Toryism\" of such people as the former Conservative party Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli). In \"The Man versus the State\" (1884), he attacked Gladstone and the Liberal party for losing its proper mission (they should be defending personal liberty, he said) and instead promoting paternalist social legislation (what Gladstone himself called \"Construction\" – an element in the modern Liberal party that he opposed). Spencer denounced Irish land reform, compulsory education, laws to regulate safety at work, prohibition and temperance laws, tax funded libraries, and welfare reforms. His main objections were threefold: the use of the coercive powers of the government, the discouragement given to voluntary self-improvement, and the disregard of the \"laws of life.\" The reforms, he said, were tantamount to \"socialism\", which he said was about the same as \"slavery\" in terms of limiting human freedom. Spencer vehemently attacked the widespread enthusiasm for annexation of colonies and imperial expansion, which subverted all he had predicted about evolutionary progress from 'militant' to 'industrial' societies and states.\n\nSpencer anticipated many of the analytical standpoints of later libertarian theorists such as Friedrich Hayek, especially in his \"law of equal liberty\", his insistence on the limits to predictive knowledge, his model of a spontaneous social order, and his warnings about the \"unintended consequences\" of collectivist social reforms.\n\nWhile often caricatured as ultra-conservative, Spencer had been more radical earlier in his career – opposing private property in land and claiming that each person has a latent claim to participate in the use of the earth (views that influenced Georgism), calling himself \"a radical feminist\" and advocating the organisation of trade unions as a bulwark against \"exploitation by bosses\", and favoured an economy organised primarily in free worker co-operatives as a replacement for wage-labor. Although he retained support for unions, his views on the other issues had changed by the 1880s. He came to predict that social welfare programmes would eventually lead to socialisation of the means of production, saying \"all socialism is slavery\"; Spencer defined a slave as a person who \"labours under coercion to satisfy another's desires\" and believed that under socialism or communism the individual would be enslaved to the whole community rather than to a particular master, and \"it means not whether his master a single person or society\"\n\nFor many, the name of Herbert Spencer would be virtually synonymous with Social Darwinism, a social theory that applies the law of the survival of the fittest to society; humanitarian impulses had to be resisted as nothing should be allowed to interfere with nature's laws, including the social struggle for existence.\n\nSpencer's association with Social Darwinism might have its origin in a specific interpretation of his support for competition. Whereas in biology the competition of various organisms can result in the death of a species or organism, the kind of competition Spencer advocated is closer to the one used by economists, where competing individuals or firms improve the well being of the rest of society. Spencer viewed private charity positively, encouraging both voluntary association and informal care to aid those in need, rather than relying on government bureaucracy or force. He further recommended that private charitable efforts would be wise to avoid encouraging the formation of new dependent families by those unable to support themselves without charity.\n\nFocusing on the form as well as the content of Spencer's \"Synthetic Philosophy\", one writer has identified it as the paradigmatic case of \"Social Darwinism\", understood as a politically motivated metaphysic very different in both form and motivation from Darwinist science.\n\nWhile most philosophers fail to achieve much of a following outside the academy of their professional peers, by the 1870s and 1880s Spencer had achieved an unparalleled popularity, as the sheer volume of his sales indicate. He was probably the first, and possibly the only, philosopher in history to sell over a million copies of his works during his own lifetime. In the United States, where pirated editions were still commonplace, his authorised publisher, Appleton, sold 368,755 copies between 1860 and 1903. This figure did not differ much from his sales in his native Britain, and once editions in the rest of the world are added in the figure of a million copies seems like a conservative estimate. As William James remarked, Spencer \"enlarged the imagination, and set free the speculative mind of countless doctors, engineers, and lawyers, of many physicists and chemists, and of thoughtful laymen generally.\" The aspect of his thought that emphasised individual self-improvement found a ready audience in the skilled working class.\n\nSpencer's influence among leaders of thought was also immense, though it was most often expressed in terms of their reaction to, and repudiation of, his ideas. As his American follower John Fiske observed, Spencer's ideas were to be found \"running like the weft through all the warp\" of Victorian thought. Such varied thinkers as Henry Sidgwick, T.H. Green, G.E. Moore, William James, Henri Bergson, and Émile Durkheim defined their ideas in relation to his. Durkheim's \"Division of Labour in Society\" is to a very large extent an extended debate with Spencer, from whose sociology, many commentators now agree, Durkheim borrowed extensively.\n\nIn post-1863-Uprising Poland, many of Spencer's ideas became integral to the dominant \"fin-de-siècle\" ideology, \"Polish Positivism\". The leading Polish writer of the period, Bolesław Prus, hailed Spencer as \"the Aristotle of the nineteenth century\" and adopted Spencer's metaphor of society-as-organism, giving it a striking poetic presentation in his 1884 micro-story, \"Mold of the Earth\", and highlighting the concept in the introduction to his most universal novel, \"Pharaoh\" (1895).\n\nThe early 20th century was hostile to Spencer. Soon after his death, his philosophical reputation went into a sharp decline. Half a century after his death, his work was dismissed as a \"parody of philosophy\", and the historian Richard Hofstadter called him \"the metaphysician of the homemade intellectual, and the prophet of the cracker-barrel agnostic.\" Nonetheless, Spencer's thought had penetrated so deeply into the Victorian age that his influence did not disappear entirely.\n\nIn recent years, much more positive estimates have appeared, as well as a still highly negative estimate.\n\nDespite his reputation as a Social Darwinist, Spencer's political thought has been open to multiple interpretations. His political philosophy could both provide inspiration to those who believed that individuals were masters of their fate, who should brook no interference from a meddling state, and those who believed that social development required a strong central authority. In \"Lochner v. New York\", conservative justices of the United States Supreme Court could find inspiration in Spencer's writings for striking down a New York law limiting the number of hours a baker could work during the week, on the ground that this law restricted liberty of contract. Arguing against the majority's holding that a \"right to free contract\" is implicit in the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. wrote: \"The Fourteenth Amendment does not enact Mr. Herbert Spencer's Social Statics.\" Spencer has also been described as a quasi-anarchist, as well as an outright anarchist. Marxist theorist Georgi Plekhanov, in his 1909 book \"Anarchism and Socialism\", labelled Spencer a \"conservative Anarchist.\"\n\nSpencer's ideas became very influential in China and Japan largely because he appealed to the reformers' desire to establish a strong nation-state with which to compete with the Western powers. His thought was introduced by the Chinese scholar Yen Fu, who saw his writings as a prescription for the reform of the Qing state. Spencer also influenced the Japanese Westernizer Tokutomi Soho, who believed that Japan was on the verge of transitioning from a \"militant society\" to an \"industrial society,\" and needed to quickly jettison all things Japanese and take up Western ethics and learning. He also corresponded with Kaneko Kentaro, warning him of the dangers of imperialism. Savarkar writes in his \"Inside the Enemy Camp\", about reading all of Spencer's works, of his great interest in them, of their translation into Marathi, and their influence on the likes of Tilak and Agarkar, and the affectionate sobriquet given to him in Maharashtra – Harbhat Pendse.\n\nSpencer greatly influenced literature and rhetoric. His 1852 essay, \"The Philosophy of Style\", explored a growing trend of formalist approaches to writing. Highly focused on the proper placement and ordering of the parts of an English sentence, he created a guide for effective composition. Spencer aimed to free prose writing from as much \"friction and inertia\" as possible, so that the reader would not be slowed by strenuous deliberations concerning the proper context and meaning of a sentence. Spencer argued that writers should aim \"To so present ideas that they may be apprehended with the least possible mental effort\" by the reader.\n\nHe argued that by making the meaning as readily accessible as possible, the writer would achieve the greatest possible communicative efficiency. This was accomplished, according to Spencer, by placing all the subordinate clauses, objects and phrases before the subject of a sentence so that, when readers reached the subject, they had all the information they needed to completely perceive its significance. While the overall influence that \"The Philosophy of Style\" had on the field of rhetoric was not as far-reaching as his contribution to other fields, Spencer's voice lent authoritative support to formalist views of rhetoric.\n\nSpencer influenced literature inasmuch as many novelists and short story authors came to address his ideas in their work. George Eliot, Leo Tolstoy, Thomas Hardy, George Bernard Shaw, Bolesław Prus, Abraham Cahan, D. H. Lawrence, Machado de Assis, Richard Austin Freeman, and Jorge Luis Borges all referenced Spencer. Arnold Bennett greatly praised \"First Principles\", and the influence it had on Bennett may be seen in his many novels. Jack London went so far as to create a character, \"Martin Eden\", a staunch Spencerian. It has also been suggested that the character of Vershinin in Anton Chekhov's play \"The Three Sisters\" is a dedicated Spencerian. H.G. Wells used Spencer's ideas as a theme in his novella, \"The Time Machine\", employing them to explain the evolution of man into two species. It is perhaps the best testimony to the influence of Spencer's beliefs and writings that his reach was so diverse. He influenced not only the administrators who shaped their societies' inner workings, but also the artists who helped shape those societies' ideals and beliefs. In Rudyard Kipling's novel \"Kim\", the Anglophile Bengali spy Hurree Babu admires of Herbert Spencer and quotes him to comic effect: \"They are, of course, dematerialised phenomena. Spencer says.\" \"I am good enough Herbert Spencerian, I trust, to meet little thing like death, which is all in my fate, you know.\" \"He thanked all the Gods of Hindustan, and Herbert Spencer, that there remained some valuables to steal.\"\n\n\nEssay Collections:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23015265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23015265", "title": "Igor Pribac", "text": "Igor Pribac\n\nIgor Pribac (born 1958) is a Slovenian translator.\n\nBorn in Koper in the Slovenian Littoral, then part of former Yugoslavia, where he attended high school. He studied philosophy and sociology at the University of Ljubljana. He obtained a MA with a thesis on Spinoza's criticism of Descartes under the supervision of the philosopher Božidar Debenjak. In 1998, he obtained a PhD with a thesis on natural law in Hobbes and Spinoza. Since 1985, he has taught at the Faculty of Arts of the University of Ljubljana.\n\nHe has translated several philosophical texts from English and Italian, including Will Kymlicka, Paolo Virno, Cesare Beccaria, and Thomas Hobbes.\n\nHe has also written on a variety of populist subjects, including psychology and psychoanalysis, natural law, early modern political theory, and the notion of post-modernism. He has published several very important reflections on contemporary issues, such as animal rights, television, or the changing role of marriage in post-modern societies, from a philosophical perspective. He has been a supporter of euthanasia and of the basic income and many other populist causes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "933673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=933673", "title": "Inner peace", "text": "Inner peace\n\nInner peace (or peace of mind) refers to a deliberate state of psychological or spiritual calm despite the potential presence of stressors. Being \"at peace\" is considered by many to be healthy (homeostasis) and the opposite of being stressed or anxious, and is considered to be a state where our mind performs at an optimal level with a positive outcome. Peace of mind is thus generally associated with bliss, happiness and contentment.\n\nPeace of mind, serenity, and calmness are descriptions of a disposition free from the effects of stress. In some cultures, inner peace is considered a state of consciousness or enlightenment that may be cultivated by various forms of training, such as prayer, meditation, tai chi or yoga, for example. Many spiritual practices refer to this peace as an experience of knowing oneself. Finding inner peace (Shanti, Santhi or Shanthi, from , , ; √ शम śam: ‘be calm’) means peace, rest, calmness, tranquility, or bliss is often associated with traditions such as Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism and Jainism.\n\nPeople have difficulties embracing their inner spirituality because everyday stressors get the best of them; finding peace and happiness in the little joys of life can seem like a lot of work, and results do not seem all that gratifying. Achieving spirituality is a step-by-step process; there are ways through which one can become more spiritual every day.\n\nTenzin Gyatso, the current and 14th Dalai Lama, emphasizes the importance of inner peace in the world: \n"}
{"id": "21759966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21759966", "title": "Juan Manuel Burgos", "text": "Juan Manuel Burgos\n\nJuan Manuel Burgos Velasco (born 1961, Valladolid, Spain) is a Spanish Personalist philosopher. He has a PhD. in Physics, (Barcelona, 1988) and a PhD. in Philosophy (Rome, 1992). He is Professor at the University San Pablo CEU (Madrid), and at the John Paul II Institute (Madrid), member of the Jaques Maritain International Institute, and distinguished guest Professor at Galileo University (2007, Guatemala). In 2007, he became an honorary Professor at the Institute of Family Sciences (Guatemala) for his contribution to family sciences through his anthropology studies.\nFrom his active dedication to the investigation and diffusion of Personalist philosophy, Burgos has been a guest professor at Universities in Rome, Mexico, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Guatemala and Colombia. He is founder and actual President of the Spanish Association of Personalism (Asociación Española de Personalismo , AEP), an institution dedicated to develop and promote personalism through publications , seminaries and international congresses on personalist thinkers such as Karol Wojtyła(2006 ) and Julian Marias (2008 ). The editor of two philosophy collections (Palabra Editorials, Madrid Spain) has also published numerous books and articles on specialized magazines on diverse topics on Personalism, Philosophical Anthropology, Bioethics and sociology of the family.\n\nBurgos's philosophy, takes off from the originality and intellectual weight of Personalism with names like Maritain, Emmanuel Mounier, Wojtyła, Dietrich von Hildebrand, Scheler, Marias, Guardini, Nedoncelle, Gabriel Marcel, etc. His investigation focuses on three main subjects:\n\nThe result of his synthesis labor is presented in two major phases:\nIn the first one, he states the elements that place personalism within the Realistic Classical philosophy. In his analysis, this standing point supposes six basic principles:\n\nIn the second phase, Burgos has identified the key elements that define and distinguish Personalism as an original and new philosophy within this tradition. Those key elements are:\n\nWith these premises as foundation, Burgos has developed a personalist anthropology (\"Antropología: una gíia para la existencia\", 2003) that incorporates the latter characteristics developing and integrating them organically on a fundamental anthropological concept: the one of person. According to Burgos, this is the main aspect by which Personalism distinguishes from other Classical anthropologies because those take their fundamental element in the concept of substance or of nature.\n\nNow, Burgos is working in developing and his studies have become deeper on main elements in personalism as: the personalist method and analogy, the relationship of personalism and metaphysics, praxis (\"Reconstruir la persona\", 2009) or on human nature (\"Repensar la naturaleza humana\", 2007).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4724578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4724578", "title": "Klavierbüchlein für Wilhelm Friedemann Bach", "text": "Klavierbüchlein für Wilhelm Friedemann Bach\n\nKlavierbüchlein für Wilhelm Friedemann Bach (Bach's original spelling: \"Clavier-Büchlein vor Wilhelm Friedemann Bach\") is a collection of keyboard music compiled by the German Baroque composer Johann Sebastian Bach for his eldest son Wilhelm Friedemann. It is frequently referred to simply as \"Klavierbüchlein\".\n\nJohann Sebastian began compiling the collection in 1720. Most of the pieces included are better known as parts of the Well-Tempered Clavier and the Inventions and Sinfonias. The authorship of most other works is debated: particularly the famous Little Preludes BWV 924–932 are sometimes attributed to Wilhelm Friedemann Bach.\n\nThe book begins with a preface that contains an explanation of clefs and a guide to playing ornaments. The pieces of the collection are arranged by complexity, beginning with the most simple works. Of these, Applicatio in C major BWV 994 and Prelude in G minor BWV 930 are particularly notable because they are the only surviving works that feature the fingering in Bach's own hand (the only other Bach piece with fingering marks is the C major Prelude BWV 870a, however, the marks are not in Bach's hand. They were probably added by Johann Caspar Vogler, Bach's pupil and successor at Weimar).\n\nHere is a complete list of pieces, in order of appearance in the manuscript, with the numbering as in most score editions (Bach Gesellschaft Ausgabe 45 p. 210–231; Neue Bach Ausgabe V/5):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23604229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23604229", "title": "Leo Mikhailovich Lopatin", "text": "Leo Mikhailovich Lopatin\n\nLev (Leo) Mikhailovich Lopatin (; 13 June 1855, Moscow – 21 March 1920, Moscow) was a Russian philosopher and former head of the Moscow Psychological Society until the formal liquidation of the society by the Soviet after the Revolution of 1917. Lopatin fell victim to the policies of Soviet reform, which caused widespread famine, and in 1920 he died due to malnourishment and exhaustion.\n\nLopatin was a close personal acquaintance of Vladimir Soloviev, and he identified strongly with Soloviev's ideas. Lopatin is known to have been an ardent support and proponent of Soloviev's philosophy. Lopatin article on Soloviev's philosophy in the Russian journal \"Mind\", issue 25, 1916, outlines Lopatin's validation of Soloviev and also Lopatin's points of departure and areas of disagreement.\n\nLopatin continued to clarify his philosophy in his two-volume work \"The Positive Tasks of Philosophy\" (1886). Lopatin created a great body of work dedicated to the subject of free will (metaphysical libertarianism), which was not published.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2157329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157329", "title": "List of women philosophers", "text": "List of women philosophers\n\nThis is a list of women philosophers ordered alphabetically by surname. Although often overlooked in mainstream historiography, women have engaged in philosophy throughout the field's history. Some notable philosophers include Hypatia of Alexandria (ca. 370-415 AD), Anne Conway (1631-1679), Mary Wollstonecraft (1759-1797), Sarah Margaret Fuller (1810-1850), Simone de Beauvoir (1908-1986), Ayn Rand (1905-1982), Hannah Arendt (1906-1975), Elizabeth Anscombe (1919-2001), Mary Warnock (born 1924), Joyce Mitchell Cook (1933-2015, the first African American woman to receive a Ph.D. in philosophy), Cora Diamond (born 1937), and Susan Haack (born 1945).\n\n\nFrom the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century C.E. to the Renaissance in the 16th century.\n\nThe seventeenth and early twentieth centuries roughly mark the beginning and the end of modern philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "53941454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53941454", "title": "Lorenzo Chiesa", "text": "Lorenzo Chiesa\n\nLorenzo Chiesa (born 25 April 1976) is a philosopher, critical theorist, and translator whose research focuses on the intersection between ontology, psychoanalysis, and political theory. \n\nHe is best known for his monographs on Jacques Lacan, published by MIT Press, and translations of the work of Giorgio Agamben, published by Stanford University Press. He has also written widely on contemporary French and Italian philosophy, biopolitics, and Marxism. \n\nSince 2014 Chiesa has been Visiting Professor in the socio-political philosophy MA programme of the European University at Saint Petersburg and at the Freud’s Dream Museum of the East European Institute of Psychoanalysis. He serves as Director of the Genoa School of Humanities. Previously, he taught at the University of Kent (2006-2014), where he was Professor of Modern European Thought and founded and directed the Centre for Critical Thought. He also held visiting positions at the University of New Mexico, the Institute of Philosophy of Ljubljana, Italian Institute of Human Sciences (SUM) Naples, and Jnanapravaha Mumbai.\n\nChiesa’s Subjectivity and Otherness (2007), which focuses on Lacan’s theory of the subject, has been described as setting “a new benchmark of conceptual rigour within the realm of introductory texts on Lacanian thought”. His treatment of the implications of psychoanalysis for materialism and atheism in The Not-Two (2016) is extensively discussed by Slavoj Žižek in Disparities. According to Roberto Esposito, Chiesa is “one of the rare philosophers capable of making Lacan’s psychoanalytic apparatus interact with the various languages of continental thought”. He has also been referred to as “the leader of a new generation of ‘young Lacanians’, for whom Lacan is primarily a text that needs to be read”. Chiesa argues that “psychoanalysis is not intrinsically political” while it is needed to “criticise classical ontology, think new ways in which to approach the question of ontology, and then, from that standpoint, think progressive politics”.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19252214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19252214", "title": "Lương Kim Định", "text": "Lương Kim Định\n\nLương Kim Định or Dominic Lương Kim Định, Kim Định (15 June 1914 – 25 March 1997 in Carthage, Missouri) was a Vietnamese catholic priest, scholar and philosopher.\n\nHe was born in Nam Dinh, French Indochina. He was ordained Catholic priest in 1943. He was a philosophy graduate of the Seminary of Saint Albert le Grand, and a professor of philosophy at Bui Chu Seminary (1943–46). He afterwards went to Paris, France to study French civilization, sociology and philosophy at \"Institut Catholique de Paris\", and Confucianism at the \"Institut des Hautes Etudes Chinoises\". Returning to Vietnam in 1957, he taught philosophy at the Le Bao Tinh Academy and the Saigon University Faculty of Letters since 1960, Van Hanh University since 1967, and Dalat University. Philosopher Kim Dinh died on 25 March 1997 at Carthage, Missouri, USA, aged 83.\n\nHe published more than 30 books on Vietnamese culture and philosophy from 1963 until his death. The numerous works of Kim Dinh present a plethora of insights into the Vietnamese cultural heritage and can serve as a valuable basis for a Vietnamese‑American theology. He established the philosophies of An Vi (or \"An Việt\", “Tranquillity Philosophy”) and “Authentic Vietnamese Confucianism” (\"Việt Nho\").\n\n"}
{"id": "56774266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56774266", "title": "Madurai Perumarudhanar", "text": "Madurai Perumarudhanar\n\nMadhurai Perumaruthanār (Tamil: மதுரைப் பெருமருதனார்) was a poet of the Sangam period, to whom a single verse of the Sangam literature has been attributed, besides verse 37 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\nMadurai Perumarudhanar hailed from the city of Madurai. He is the father of the Sangam poet Madurai Perumarudhu Ilanaganar.\n\nMadurai Perumarudhanar has written a sole Sangam verse—verse 241 of the Natrinai. Apart from this, he has also composed verse 37 in the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\n"}
{"id": "5601321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5601321", "title": "Martin Heidegger and Nazism", "text": "Martin Heidegger and Nazism\n\nPhilosopher Martin Heidegger joined the Nazi Party (NSDAP) on May 1, 1933, ten days after being elected Rector of the University of Freiburg. A year later, in April 1934, he resigned the Rectorship and stopped taking part in Nazi Party meetings, but remained a member of the Nazi Party until its dismantling at the end of World War II. The denazification hearings immediately after World War II led to Heidegger's dismissal from Freiburg, banning him from teaching. In 1949, after several years of investigation, the French military finally classified Heidegger as a \"Mitläufer\" or \"Nazi follower\". The teaching ban was lifted in 1951, and Heidegger was granted \"emeritus\" status in 1953; however, he was never allowed to resume his philosophy chairmanship.\n\nHeidegger's involvement with National Socialism, his attitude towards Jews and his near-total silence about the Holocaust in his writing and teaching after 1945 are highly controversial. The \"Black Notebooks\", written between 1931 and 1941, contain several anti-semitic statements. After 1945, Heidegger never published anything about the Holocaust or the extermination camps, and made one sole verbal mention of them, in 1949, whose meaning is disputed among scholars. Heidegger never apologized for anything and is only known to have expressed regret once, privately, when he described his rectorship and the related political engagement as \"the greatest stupidity of his life\" (\"die größte Dummheit seines Lebens\").\n\nWhether there is a relation between Heidegger's political affiliation and his philosophy is another matter of controversy. Critics, such as Günther Anders, Jürgen Habermas, Theodor Adorno, Hans Jonas, Karl Löwith, Pierre Bourdieu, Maurice Blanchot, Emmanuel Levinas, Luc Ferry, Jacques Ellul, and Alain Renaut claim that Heidegger's affiliation with the Nazi Party revealed flaws inherent in his philosophical conceptions. His supporters, such as Hannah Arendt, Otto Pöggeler, Jan Patocka, Silvio Vietta, Jacques Derrida, Jean Beaufret, Jean-Michel Palmier, Richard Rorty, Marcel Conche, Julian Young, Catherine Malabou, and François Fédier, see his involvement with Nazism as a personal \"error\"a word which Arendt placed in quotation marks when referring to Heidegger's Nazi-era politics that is irrelevant to his philosophy.\n\nAdolf Hitler was sworn in as Chancellor of Germany on January 30, 1933. Heidegger was elected rector of the University of Freiburg on April 21, 1933, on the recommendation of his predecessor von Möllendorff, who was forced to give up his position because he had refused to display an anti-Jewish poster, and assumed the position the following day. He joined the \"National Socialist German Workers' Party\" ten days later, on May 1 (significantly the international day of workers' solidarity: Heidegger said after the war he supported the social more than the national). He co-signed a public telegram sent by Nazi rectors to Hitler on May 20, 1933. Otto Pöggeler puts this attitude into perspective:\nHe wasn't alone to be mystified. Toynbee too after an audience in 1936 noted about Hitler: \"he has beautiful hands\". (...) \"Mein Kampf\" had hardly been read and absolutely not taken seriously. (...) Roosevelt was impressed by Hitler's manners, the \"Times\" in London supported Hitler's demands, and as a result of high stock exchange prices, people applauded in London's cinemas when the newsreel showed Hitler's image.\n\nIn Germany, the atmosphere of those days has been described by Sebastian Haffner, who experienced it himself, as \"a widespread feeling of deliverance, of liberation from democracy.\" Rüdiger Safranski explains:\nThis sense of relief at the demise of democracy was shared not only by the enemies of the republic. Most of its supporters, too, no longer credited it with the strength to master the crisis. It was as if a paralyzing weight had been lifted. Something genuinely new seemed to be beginning — a people's rule without political parties, with a leader of whom it was hoped that he would unite Germany once more internally and make her self-assured externally. (...) Hitler's \"Peace Speech\" of May 17, 1933, when he declared that \"boundless love and loyalty to one's own nation\" included \"respect\" for the national rights of other nations, had its effect. The London \"Times\" observed that Hitler had \"indeed spoken for a united Germany.\" Even among the Jewish population — despite the boycott of Jewish businesses on April 1 and the dismissal of Jewish public employees after April 7 — there was a good deal of enthusiastic support for the \"National revolution\". Georg Picht recalls that Eugen Rosenstock-Huessy, in a lecture in March 1933, declared that the National Socialist revolution was an attempt by the Germans to realize Hölderlin's dream. (...) Heidegger was indeed captivated by Hitler in this first year.\nJaspers noted about his last meeting with him in May 1933: \"It's just like 1914, again this deceptive mass intoxication.\"\n\nThe new rector Heidegger was sober enough to refuse, like his predecessor, to display the anti-Jewish poster. He argued after the war that he joined the Party to avoid dismissal, and he forbade the planned book-burning that was scheduled to take place in front of the main University building. Nevertheless, according to Victor Farias, Hugo Ott, and Emmanuel Faye, Heidegger implemented the \"Gleichschaltung\" totalitarian policy, suppressing all opposition to the government. Faye [pp. 40–46] details precisely Heidegger's actions in implementing anti-Semitic legislation within Freiburg University. Along with Ernst Krieck and Alfred Baeumler, Heidegger spearheaded the Conservative Revolution promoted (in the beginning) by the Nazis. But according to others such as François Fédier and Julian Young, Heidegger \"called for, not the subordination of the university to the state, but precisely the reverse\", and \"did indeed seek to protect students from indoctrination by the crasser form of Nazi propaganda\". Young quotes the testimony of a former student, Georg Picht:\nThe way Heidegger conceived of the revival of the university, this became clear to me on the occasion of a memorable event. To give the first lecture within the framework of \"political education\" a compulsory measure introduced at the universities by the Nazis (...) – Heidegger, rector at that time, invited my mother's brother in law, Viktor von Weizsäcker. Everyone was puzzled, because it was well-known that Weizsäcker was no Nazi. But Heidegger's word was law. The student he had chosen to lead the philosophy department thought he should pronounce introductory words on national socialist revolution. Heidegger soon manifested signs of impatience, then he shouted with a loud voice that irritation strained: \"this jabber will stop immediately!\" Totally prostrated, the student disappeared from the tribune. He had to resign from office. As for Victor von Weizsäcker, he gave a perfect lecture on his philosophy of medicine, in which national socialism was not once mentioned, but far rather Sigmund Freud.\n\nPicht recalls his uncle Weizsäcker told him afterwards about Heidegger's political engagement: \nI'm pretty sure it's a misunderstandingsuch a thing happens often in history of philosophy. But Heidegger is a step ahead: he perceives something is going on that the others don't.\" \n\nHeidegger's tenure as rector was fraught with difficulties. He was in conflict with Nazi students, intellectuals, and bureaucrats. Philosophical historian Hans Sluga wrote:\nThough as rector he prevented students from displaying an anti-Semitic poster at the entrance to the university and from holding a book burning, he kept in close contact with the Nazi student leaders and clearly signaled to them his sympathy with their activism.\n\nSome National Socialist education officials viewed also him as a rival, while others saw his efforts as comical. His most risible initiative was the creation of a \"Wissenschaftslager\" or Scholar's camp, seriously described by Rockmore as a \"reeducation camp\", but by Safranski as rather a \"mixture of scout camp and Platonic academy\", actually \"to build campfires, share food, have conversation, sing along with guitar... with people who were really a little beyond Cub Scout age\". Safranski tells how a dispute occurred with a group of SA students and their military spirit. Some of Heidegger's fellow National Socialists also ridiculed his philosophical writings as gibberish. He finally offered his resignation on April 23, 1934, and it was accepted on April 27. Heidegger remained a member of both the academic faculty and of the Nazi Party until the end of the war, but took no part in Party meetings. In 1944, he didn't even have the right to teach anymore, was considered a \"completely dispensable\" teacher, and was ordered up the Rhine to build fortifications, then drafted into the \"Volkssturm\" national militia, \"the oldest member of the faculty to be called up\". In 1945 Heidegger wrote of his term as rector, giving the writing to his son Hermann; it was published in 1983:\nThe rectorate was an attempt to see something in the movement that had come to power, beyond all its failings and crudeness, that was much more far-reaching and that could perhaps one day bring a concentration on the Germans' Western historical essence. It will in no way be denied that at the time I believed in such possibilities and for that reason renounced the actual vocation of thinking in favor of being effective in an official capacity. In no way will what was caused by my own inadequacy in office be played down. But these points of view do not capture what is essential and what moved me to accept the rectorate.\n\nHeidegger's inaugural address as rector of Freiburg, the \"Rektoratsrede\", was entitled \"The Self-Assertion of the German University\" (\"Die Selbstbehauptung der deutschen Universität\"). This speech has become notorious as a visible endorsement of Nazism by Heidegger, giving the blessing of his philosophy to the new political party. However, philosopher Jacques Taminiaux writes that \"it is to admit that the rectorate speech do[es] not tally at all with the Nazi-ideologie\", and Eduard Langwald calls it even a \"challenge to Hitlerism\" or an \"anti-Mein-Kampf-address\", for Heidegger refers to Plato instead of Hitler (who is not mentioned) and, above all, puts limits on the Nazi leader-principle (\"Führerprinzip\"):\nAll leading must concede its following its own strength. All following, however, bears resistance in itself. This essential opposition of leading and following must not be blurred let alone eliminated.\n\nIn this speech, Heidegger declared that \"science must become the power that shapes the body of the German university.\" But by \"science\" he meant \"the primordial and full essence of science\", which he defined as \"engaged knowledge about the people and about the destiny of the state that keeps itself in readiness [...] at one with the spiritual mission.\"\n\nHe went on to link this concept of \"science\" with a historical struggle of the German people:\nThe will to the essence of the German university is the will to science as will to the historical spiritual mission of the German people as a people [\"Volk\"] that knows itself in its state [\"Staat\"]. Together, science and German destiny must come to power in the will to essence. And they will do so and only will do so, if weteachers and studentson the one hand, expose science to its innermost necessity and, on the other hand, are able to stand our ground while German destiny is in its most extreme distress.\n\nHeidegger also linked the concept of a people with \"blood and soil\" in a way that would now be regarded as characteristic of Nazism:\nThe spiritual world of a people is not the superstructure of a culture any more than it is an armory filled with useful information and values; it is the power that most deeply preserves the people’s earth- and blood-bound strengths as the power that most deeply arouses and most profoundly shakes the people’s existence.\n\nFrançois Fédier and Beda Allemann argue, however, that this topic was not at that time specifically Nazi. For instance, Austrian-born Israeli philosopher Martin Buber said in 1911: \"Blood is the deepest power stratum of the soul\" (\"Three addresses on Judaism\"). In 1936, anti-fascist poet Antonin Artaud wrote that \"Any true culture is based on race and blood.\" Moreover, the 1933-34 lecture course \"On the Essence of Truth\" contains a clear note of dissent against \"blood and soil\" as the sole requirement for Dasein:\n\nThere is much talk nowadays of blood and soil as frequently invoked powers. Literati, whom one comes across even today, have already seized hold of them. Blood and soil are certainly powerful and necessary, but they are not a sufficient condition for the Dasein of a people.\n\nHeidegger's concept of a people is \"historical\" and not only biological as in Alfred Rosenberg, the Nazi Party's chief racial theorist. In his 1941–42 lecture course on Hölderlin's poem \"Andenken\", Heidegger contends that a people finding itself only in skull measurements and archaeological digs is unable to find itself as a people.\n\nThe rectorate speech ended with calls for the German people to \"will itself\" and \"fulfill its historical mission\":\n\nIn June 1933, Heidegger gave a speech to the Student Association at the University of Heidelberg in which he gave clear form to his platonian views on the need for the university \"to educate the State’s leaders\", in the spirit of the Plato's quote ending the Rectorate speech with \"All that is great stands in the storm\" (\"Republic\" 497d9), but also \"in the National Socialist spirit\" and free from \"humanizing, Christian ideas\":\n\nAccording to Farias and Ott, Heidegger also denounced or demoted three colleagues for being insufficiently committed to the Nazi cause. But this has been disputed by Eduard Langwald, who considers \"Heidegger was never a Nazi-minded informer\".\n\nAccording to Hugo Ott, Heidegger leaked information on September 29, 1933 to the local minister of education that the chemist Hermann Staudinger had been a pacifist during World War I. Heidegger knew this could cost Staudinger his job. The Gestapo investigated the matter and confirmed Heidegger's tip. Asked for his recommendation as rector of the university, Heidegger secretly urged the ministry to fire Staudinger without a pension. But nothing eventually happened. As Langwald alleges Heidegger was himself a pacifist since World War I, he doubts that Heidegger could so suddenly become a \"pacifist hunter\" acting \"furiously macho\", and asserts Ott did not interpret the facts properly. After Hitler's \"Peace Speech\" of May 17, 1933, Heidegger more likely wanted to test Staudinger, because as a chemist his researches could become dangerous. Safranski, although he charges Heidegger, recognizes: \"It is likely that Heidegger [...] may not even have viewed his action as a denunciation. He felt he was a part of the revolutionary movement, and it was his intention to keep opportunists away from the revolutionary awakening. They were not to be allowed to sneak into the movement and use it to their advantage.\"\n\nHeidegger in the same spirit denounced his former friend Eduard Baumgarten in a letter to the head of the organization of Nazi professors at the University of Göttingen, where Baumgarten had been teaching. He intervened as Baumgarten applied for membership in the SA brownshirts and in the National Socialist Dozentenschaft. In the letter, Heidegger called Baumgarten \"anything but a National-Socialist\" and underlined his links to \"the Heidelberg circle of liberal-democratic intellectuals around Max Weber.\" But he failed and the opportunistic Baumgarten continued in his career - with the help of the Party. Langwald thinks Heidegger considered Baumgarten as a dangerous pragmatist who could give philosophical weapons to the NS-ideologie.\n\nThe Catholic intellectual Max Müller was a member of the inner circle of Heidegger's most gifted students from 1928 to 1933. But Müller stopped attending Heidegger's lectures when Heidegger joined the Nazi party in May 1933. Seven months later, Heidegger fired Müller from his position as a student leader because Müller was \"not politically appropriate.\" Then in 1938 Müller discovered that Heidegger had blocked him from getting a teaching position at Freiburg by informing the university administration that Müller was \"unfavorably disposed\" toward the regime. Langwald thinks that Heidegger had really no choice but to fire him from his position, as Müller showed too publicly that he was indeed more than \"not politically appropriate\". Heidegger also fired a Nazi student leader because he was this time too favorably disposed toward the regime (see Picht's testimony).\n\nOn November 3, 1933, Heidegger issued a decree applying the Nazi racial policies to the students of Freiburg university. These laws meant that Jews were now indirectly and directly dissuaded or banned from privileged and superior positions reserved for \"Aryan Germans.\" Heidegger announced that economic aid would henceforth be awarded to students who belonged to the SS, the SA, or other military groups but would be denied to \"Jewish or Marxist students\" or anyone who fit the description of a \"non-Aryan\" in Nazi law.\n\nAfter 1933, Heidegger declined to direct the doctoral dissertations of Jewish students: he sent all those students to his Catholic colleague Professor Martin Honecker. And in his letter denouncing Baumgarten, cited above, Heidegger wrote that \"after failing with me\" [not as a student but as a friend!], Baumgarten \"frequented, very actively, the Jew Fränkel\"—i.e. Eduard Fränkel, a noted professor of classics at Freiburg. Jaspers declared he was surprised by this expression, \"the Jew Fränkel\", because Heidegger had never been anti-Semitic before. But the reason is perhaps that the only copy of this letter about Baumgarten seems actually not to have been written by Heidegger himself. Moreover, Heidegger did indeed write a \"very impressive letter to the Education minister\" (Hugo Ott) in July 1933, this one authentic, to defend Eduard Fränkel against the new anti-Semitic law.\n\nHeidegger intervened as rector to help several other Jewish colleagues. He wrote appeals in defense of three Jewish professors, including Fränkel, all of whom were about to be fired for racial reasons. Heidegger also helped certain Jewish students and colleagues to emigrate, such as Karl Löwith and his assistant Werner Brock, who found a position respectively in Italy and in England with Heidegger's assistance.\n\nThere are nevertheless troubling passages from Heidegger's lecture and seminar courses from the period of the Nazi \"Gleichschaltung.\" In a passage reflecting on Heraclitus' fragment 53, \"War is the father of all things\", in the summer of 1933-34 after the Nazis' first round of anti-semitic legislation (including university employment and enrollment reforms), Heidegger argued in the following terms concerning the need for 'polemos' or 'Kampf' (combat, war and/or struggle) with an internal enemy:\nThe enemy is one who poses an essential threat to the existence of the people and its members. The enemy is not necessarily the outside enemy, and the outside enemy is not necessarily the most dangerous. It may even appear that there is no enemy at all. The root requirement is then to find the enemy, bring him to light or even to create him, so that there may be that standing up to the enemy, and so that existence does not become apathetic. The enemy may have grafted himself onto the innermost root of the existence of a people, and oppose the latter’s ownmost essence, acting contrary to it. All the keener and harsher and more difficult is then the struggle, for only a very small part of the struggle consists in mutual blows; it is often much harder and more exhausting to seek out the enemy as such, and to lead him to reveal himself, to avoid nurturing illusions about him, to remain ready to attack, to cultivate and increase constant preparedness and to initiate the attack on a long-term basis, with the goal of total extermination [\"völligen Vernichtung\"]. \n\nIn his advanced contemporary seminars \"On the Essence and Concept of Nature, State and History,\" Heidegger expostulated in essentialising terms concerning \"semitic nomads\" and their lack of possible relation to the German homeland, \"drifting\" in the \"unessence of history\": \nHistory teaches us that nomads did not become what they are because of the bleakness of the desert and the steppes, but that they have even left numerous wastelands behind them that had been fertile and cultivated land when they arrived, and that men rooted in the soil have been able to create for themselves a native land, even in the wilderness…the nature of our German space would surely be apparent to a Slavic people in a different manner than to us; to a Semitic nomad, it may never be apparent.\n\nBeginning in 1917, the philosopher Edmund Husserl championed Heidegger's work, and helped him secure the retiring Husserl's chair in Philosophy at the University of Freiburg.\n\nOn April 6, 1933, the Reichskommissar of Baden Province, Robert Wagner, suspended all Jewish government employees, including present and retired faculty at the University of Freiburg. Husserl, who was born Jewish and was an adult convert to Lutheran Christianity, was affected by this law. Heidegger did not become Rector until April 22, so it was Heidegger's predecessor as Rector who formally notified Husserl of his \"enforced leave of absence\" on April 14, 1933. Then, the week after Heidegger's election, the national Reich law of April 28, 1933 came into effect, overriding Wagner's decree, and requiring that all Jewish professors from German universities, including those who had converted to Christianity, be fired. The termination of Husserl's academic privileges thus did not involve any specific action on Heidegger's part.\n\nHeidegger had by then broken off contact with Husserl, other than through intermediaries. Heidegger later claimed that his relationship with Husserl had become strained after Husserl publicly \"settled accounts\" with him and Max Scheler in the early 1930s. However, in 1933 Husserl wrote to a friend, \"The perfect conclusion to this supposed bosom friendship of two philosophers was his very public, very theatrical entrance into the Nazi Party on May 1. Prior to that there was his self-initiated break in relations with me - in fact, soon after his appointment at Freiburg - and, over the last few years, his anti-Semitism, which he came to express with increasing vigor - even against the coterie of his most enthusiastic students, as well as around the department.\"\n\nHeidegger did not attend his former mentor's cremation in 1938. He spoke of a \"human failure\" and begged pardon in a letter to his wife.\n\nThere is no truth to the oft-repeated story that during Heidegger's time as Rector, the University denied Husserl access to the university library. However, in 1941, under pressure from publisher Max Niemeyer, Heidegger did agree to remove the dedication to Husserl from \"Being and Time\", but it could still be found in a footnote on page 38, thanking Husserl for his guidance and generosity. Husserl, of course, had died several years earlier. The dedication was restored in post-war editions.\n\nAccording to Emmanuel Faye, Heidegger supported the \"necessity of a Führer\" for Germany as early as 1918. But Heidegger spoke actually of the \"necessity of leaders\" or \"guides\" (genitive plural: \"die Notwendigkeit der Führer\") because \"only individuals are creative (even to lead), the crowd never\", which sounds more platonic than Nazi; Heidegger in the same letter speaks about people who are rightly \"appalled at the Pan-Germanic chimerae\" after first World War.\n\nIn a number of speeches during November 1933, Heidegger endorses the \"Führerprinzip\" (\"leader principle\"), i.e. the principle that the Führer is the embodiment of the people; that he is always right and that his word is above all written law and demands total obedience. For example, in one speech Heidegger stated:\nLet not propositions and 'ideas' be the rules of your being (\"Sein\"). The Führer alone \"is\" the present and future German reality and its law. Learn to know ever more deeply: that from now on every single thing demands decision, and every action responsibility. Heil Hitler!\nIn another speech a few days later, Heidegger endorsed the German election of November 1933, in which the electorate was presented with a single Nazi-approved list of candidates:\nThe German people has been summoned by the Führer to vote; the Führer, however, is asking nothing from the people; rather, he \"is giving\" the people the possibility of making, directly, the highest free decision of all: whether itthe entire peoplewants its own existence (\"Dasein\"), or whether it does not want it. [...] On November 12, the German people as a whole will choose \"its\" future, and this future is bound to the Führer. [...] There are not separate foreign and domestic policies. There is only one will to the full existence (\"Dasein\") of the State. The Führer has awakened this will in the entire people and has welded it into a single resolve.\n\nLater in November 1933, Heidegger attended a conference at the University of Tübingen organized by the students of the university and the \"Kampfbund\", the local Nazi Party chapter. In this address, he argued for a revolution in knowledge, a revolution that would displace the traditional idea that the university should be independent of the state: \nWe have witnessed a revolution. The state has transformed itself. This revolution was not the advent of a power pre-existing in the bosom of the state or of a political party. The national-socialist revolution means rather the radical transformation of German existence. [...] However, in the university, not only has the revolution not yet achieved its aims, it has not even started.\n\nHeidegger addressed some of these remarks in the 1966 \"Der Spiegel\" interview \"Only a God Can Save Us\" (see below). In that interview, he stated: \"I would no longer write [such things] today. Such things as that I stopped saying by 1934.\"\n\nIn a recent book, however, Hans Jonas, a former student of Heidegger, argues that Heidegger's endorsement of the \"Führer principle\" stemmed from his philosophy and was consistent with it:\nBut as to Heidegger's being, it is an occurrence of unveiling, a fate-laden happening upon thought: so was the Führer and the call of German destiny under him: an unveiling of something indeed, a call of being all right, fate-laden in every sense: neither then nor now did Heidegger's thought provide a norm by which to decide how to answer such calls—linguistically or otherwise: no norm except depth, resolution, and the sheer force of being that issues the call.Jonas' reading can be supported by citations from Heidegger's lectures during and immediately following the time he was rector. In \"On the Essence and Concept of Nature, History and State\", for instance, Heidegger appears to give a direct ontological sanction to Hitler's absolute rule:\n...The origin of all political action is not in knowledge, but in being. Every \"Führer\" is a \"Führer,\" must be a \"Führer\" [italics in original], in accordance with the stamp in his being, and simultaneously, in the living unfolding of his proper essence, he understands, thinks, and puts into action what the people and the state are.\nIn his 1934 class on Holderlin, Heidegger is able to comment that \"The true and only Fuhrer makes a sign in his being towards the domain [\"bereich\", empire] of the demigods. Being the Führer is a destiny …”,\n\nIn his postwar justification, Heidegger claimed he resigned the rectorship in April 1934 because the ministry in Karlsruhe had demanded the dismissal of the deans Erik Wolf and Wilhelm von Mollendorf on political grounds. But Rüdiger Safransky found no trace of such events and prefers talking about a disagreement with other Party members. According to the historian Richard J. Evans:\nBy the beginning of 1934, there were reports in Berlin that Heidegger had established himself as 'the philosopher of National Socialism'. But to other Nazi thinkers, Heidegger's philosophy appeared too abstract, too difficult, to be of much use [...] Though his intervention was welcomed by many Nazis, on closer inspection such ideas did not really seem to be in tune with the Party's. It is not surprising that his enemies were able to enlist the support of Alfred Rosenberg, whose own ambition it was to be the philosopher of Nazism himself. Denied a role at the national level, and increasingly frustrated with the minutiae of academic politicswhich seemed to him to betray a sad absence of the new spirit he had hoped would permeate the universitiesHeidegger resigned his post in April 1934.\n\nAfter he resigned from the rectorship, Heidegger withdrew from most political activity but he never withdrew his membership in the Nazi party. In May 1934 he accepted a position in the Committee for the Philosophy of Justice in the Academy for German Law (), where he remained active until at least 1936. The academy had official consultant status in preparing National Socialist legislation such as the Nuremberg racial laws that came into effect in 1935. In addition to Heidegger, such National Socialist notables as Hans Frank, Julius Streicher, Carl Schmitt and Alfred Rosenberg belonged to the academy. References to National Socialism continued to appear in Heidegger's work, always in ambiguous ways, suitably disguised for the benefit of the Gestapo spies, according to François Fédier and Julian Young, in order to hide his own version of Nazism, as per Emmanuel Faye. For instance, in a 1935 lecture, he publicly criticized National Socialism, but referred in passing to the \"inner truth and greatness of this movement\":\n\nWhat today is systematically touted as the philosophy of National Socialism, but which has nothing in the least to do with the inner truth and greatness of this movement (namely the encounter of a globally determined technology with the man of the new age), darts about with fish-like movements in the murky waters of these 'values' and 'totalities'.\n\nHeidegger explained later that:\nThe whole lecture shows that I was at that time an adversary of the regime. The understanding ears knew therefore how to interpret the sentence. Only the spies of the party whoI knew itsat in my courses, understood the sentence otherwise, as it must be. One had to throw them a crumb here and there in order to keep freedom of teaching and speaking.\n\nThis lecture was published in 1953 under the title \"An Introduction to Metaphysics\". In the published version, Heidegger left the sentence, but added a parenthetical qualification: \"(namely, the confrontation of planetary technology and modern humanity)\". However, Heidegger did not mention that this qualification was added at the time of publication, and was not part of the original lecture.\n\nThis raised concerns in post-Nazi Germany that Heidegger was distinguishing a \"good Nazism\" from a \"bad Nazism\", a contention supported by his philosophical opponents, including Bauemler. The controversial page of the 1935 manuscript is missing from the Heidegger Archives in Marbach. He explained again during the \"Der Spiegel\" interview that \"The reason I did not read that passage aloud was because I was convinced my audience would understand me correctly. The stupid ones and the spies and the snoopers understood it differentlyand might as well have, too.\" In this same course, Heidegger criticized both Russia and the United States: \"Seen metaphysically, Russia and America are both the same: the same desolate frenzy of unbounded technology and of the unlimited organization of the average human being.\" He then calls Germany \"the most metaphysical of nations.\" This is a good example of Heidegger's ambiguous way of speaking, since his students would have known that \"metaphysical\" in this context is actually a synonym of \"technological\" and \"nihilistic\" and therefore a term of harsh criticism. In a 1938 lecture, he wrote \"...the laborious fabrication of such absurd entities as National Socialist philosophies\"but didn't read it aloud.\n\nHeidegger defended himself during the denazification period by claiming that he had opposed the philosophical bases of Nazism, especially biologism and the Nazi interpretation of Nietzsche's \"The Will to Power\".\n\nHowever, in a 1936 lecture, Heidegger still sounded rather ambiguous as to whether Nietzsche's thought was compatible with Nazism, or at least with that hypothetical \"good Nazism\": \"The two men who, each in his own way, have introduced a counter movement to nihilismMussolini and Hitlerhave learned from Nietzsche, each in an essentially different way.\" However a subtle correction followed immediately: \"But even with that, Nietzsche's authentic metaphysical domain has not yet come unto its own.\"\n\nAccording to personal notes made in 1939 (not published until 2006), Heidegger took strong exception to Hitler's statement, \"There is no attitude, which could not be ultimately justified by the ensuing usefulness for the totality.\" Under the heading \"Truth and Usefulness\", Heidegger's private critique is as follows:\nWho makes up this totality? (Eighty million-strong extant human mass? Does its extantness assign to this human mass the right to the claim on a continued existence?) How is this totality determined? What is its goal? Is it itself the goal of all goals? Why? Wherein lies the justification for this goal-setting? [...]\nWhy is \"usefulness\" the criterion for the legitmacy of a human attitude? On what is this principle grounded? [...] From where does the appeal to usefulness as the measure of truth acquire its comprehensibility? Does comprehensibility justify legitimacy?\n\nHowever, in a 1942 lecture, published posthumously, Heidegger was once again ambiguous on the subject of Nazism. During a discussion of then recent German classics scholarship, he said that: \"In the majority of 'research results', the Greeks appear as pure National Socialists. This overenthusiasm on the part of academics seems not even to notice that with such \"results\" it does National Socialism and its historical uniqueness no service at all, not that it needs this anyhow.\"\n\nIn the same lecture, he commented on America's entry into World War II, in a way that seems to identify his philosophy with the Nazi cause:\nThe entry of America into this planetary war is not an entry into history. No, it is already the last American act of America's history-lessness and self-destruction. This act is the renunciation of the Origin. It is a decision for lack-of-Origin.\n\nAmong Heidegger's students, Günther Anders saw in Heidegger's lectures a \"reactionary potential\", and Karl Löwith said that in Rome his master spoke enthusiastically of Hitler. However, most students who attended Heidegger's courses between 1933 and 1945 confirm that he became very soon an adversary of Nazism. Walter Biemel, Heidegger's student in 1942, testified in 1945:\nHeidegger was the only professor not to give any Nazi salutations prior to beginning his courses, even though it was administratory obligatory. His courses... were among the very rare ones where remarks against National Socialism were risked. Some conversations in those times could cost you your head. I had many such conversations with Heidegger. There is absolutely no doubt he was a declared adversary of the regime.\n\nSiegfried Bröse, relieved of his functions as subprefect by the Nazis in 1933, and subsequently one of Heidegger's teaching assistants, wrote to the de-Nazification hearing:\nOne could seeand this was often confirmed to me by the studentsthat Heidegger lectures were attended \"en masse\" because the students wanted to form a rule to guide their own conduct by hearing National Socialism characterized in all its non-truth... Heidegger's lectures were attended not only by students but also by people with long-standing professions and even by retired people, and every time I had the occasion to talk with these people, what came back incessantly was their admiration for the courage with which Heidegger, from the height of his philosophical position and in the rigor of his starting point, attacked National Socialism.\n\nEqually, Hermine Rohner, a student from 1940 to 1943, bears testimony to the fact Heidegger \"wasn't afraid, as for him, even in front of students from all faculties (so not only \"his\" students), to attack National Socialism so openly that I hunched up my shoulders.\"\n\nDue to what he calls Heidegger's \"spiritual resistance\", Czech resistance fighter and former Heidegger student Jan Patocka included him among his \"heroes of our times\".\n\nThe testimony of Karl Löwithwho was not in Germanysounds different. He was another of Heidegger's students, aided by Heidegger in 1933 in obtaining a fellowship to study in Rome, where he lived between 1934 and 1936. In 1936, Heidegger visited Rome to lecture on Hölderlin, and had a meeting with Löwith. In an account set down in 1940 and not intended for publication, Löwith noted that Heidegger was wearing a swastika pin, even though he knew that Löwith was Jewish. Löwith recounted their discussion about editorials published in the \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\":\nHe left no doubt about his faith in Hitler; only two things that he had underestimated: the vitality of the Christian churches and the obstacles to the Anschluss in Austria. Now, as before, he was convinced that National Socialism was the prescribed path for Germany.\n[I] told him that [...] my opinion was that his taking the side of National Socialism was in agreement with the essence of his philosophy. Heidegger told me unreservedly that I was right and developed his idea by saying that his idea of historicity [\"Geschichtlichkeit\"] was the foundation for his political involvement.\nIn response to my remark that I could understand many things about his attitude, with one exception, which was that he would permit himself to be seated at the same table with a figure such as Julius Streicher (at the German Academy of Law), he was silent at first. At last he uttered this well-known rationalisation (which Karl Barth saw so clearly), which amounted to saying that \"it all would have been much worse if some men of knowledge had not been involved.\" And with a bitter resentment towards people of culture, he concluded his statement: \"If these gentlemen had not considered themselves too refined to become involved, things would have been different, but I had to stay in there alone.\" To my reply that one did not have to be very refined to refuse to work with a Streicher, he answered that it was useless to discuss Streicher; \"Der Stürmer\" was nothing more than \"pornography.\" Why didn't Hitler get rid of this sinister individual? He didn't understand it.\n\nFor commentators such as Habermas who credit Löwith's account, there are a number of generally shared implications: one is that Heidegger did not turn away from National Socialism \"per se\" but became deeply disaffected with the official philosophy and ideology of the party, as embodied by Alfred Bäumler or Alfred Rosenberg, whose biologistic racist doctrines he never accepted.\n\nDuring the hearings of the Denazification Committee, Hannah Arendt, Heidegger's former student and lover, who was Jewish, spoke on his behalf. (Arendt very cautiously resumed her friendship with Heidegger after the war, despite or even because of the widespread contempt for Heidegger and his political sympathies, and despite his being forbidden to teach for many years.) Heidegger's former friend Karl Jaspers spoke against him, suggesting he would have a detrimental influence on German students because of his powerful teaching presence.\n\nIn September 1945, the Denazification Committee published its report on Heidegger. He was charged on four counts: his important, official position in the Nazi regime; his introduction of the \"Führerprinzip\" into the University; his engaging in Nazi propaganda and his incitement of students against \"reactionary\" professors. He was subsequently dismissed from university the same year. In March 1949, he was declared a \"follower\" (Mitläufer) of Nazism by the State Commission for Political Purification. But he was reintegrated in 1951, given emeritus status, and continued teaching until 1976. In 1974, he wrote to his friend Heinrich Petzet: \"Our Europe is being ruined from below with 'democracy'\".\n\nThomas Sheehan has noted \"Heidegger's stunning silence concerning the Holocaust,\" in contrast to his criticism of the alienation wrought by modern technologies: \"We have his statements about the six millions unemployed at the beginning of the Nazi regime, but not a word about the six million who were dead at the end of it.\" Heidegger did not publish anything concerning the Holocaust or the extermination camps, but did indeed mention them. In a 1949 lecture entitled \"Das Ge-stell\" (\"Enframing\"), he stated:\n\nAgriculture is now a motorized food-industry – in essence, the same as the manufacturing of corpses in gas chambers and extermination camps, the same as the blockading and starving of nations [the Berlin blockade was then active], the same as the manufacture of hydrogen bombs.\n\nCommentators differ on whether these statements are evidence of a profound disregard for the fate of the Jews or rather, a recontextualization of their suffering in terms of the mechanization of life and death. The French Jewish philosopher Jean-Claude Milner once said: \"It's a fact, as to gas chambers, the only proper philosophical sentence is by Heidegger [...] It is not satisfactory, but no one else did better.\" Heidegger's defenders have pointed to the deep ecology dimension of Heidegger's critique of technological \"enframing\" - i.e., that the way human beings relate to nature has a determining influence on the way we relate to one another. At least Heidegger does not say that the mechanization of agriculture and the extermination camps are equivalent, \"the same thing\" (\"dasselbe\") but \"the same\" (\"das Selbe\", a very strange turn of phrase in German), so only \"in essence\", but not in the technical or metaphysical meaning of identity. Heidegger explained during his lecture: \"The same is never the equivalent (\"das Gleiche\"). The same is no more only the indistinctive coincidence of the identical. The same is rather the relation of the different.\"\n\nMoreover, many of those who align themselves with Heidegger philosophically have pointed out that in his work on \"being-towards-death\" we can recognize a much more salient criticism of what was wrong with the mass-produced murder of a people. Thinkers as diverse as Giorgio Agamben and Judith Butler have made this point sympathetically. It might be worth pointing out that the SS physician Josef Mengele, the so-called \"Angel of Death\", was the son of the founder of a company that produced major farm machinery under the name Karl Mengele & Sons. This side of Heidegger's thinking can be seen in another controversial lecture from the same period, \"Die Gefahr\" (\"The Danger\"):\nHundreds of thousands die en masse. Do they die? They succumb. They are done in. Do they die? They become mere quanta, items in an inventory in the business of \nmanufacturing corpses. Do they die? They are liquidated inconspicuously in extermination camps. And even apart from that, right now millions of impoverished people are perishing from hunger in China. But to die is to endure death in its essence. To be able to die means to be capable of this endurance. We are capable of this only if the essence of death makes our own essence possible.\n\nIn other words, according to Heidegger, the victims of death camps were deprived not only of their life, but of the dignity of an authentic death, since they were \"liquidated\" as if they were inventory or problematic accounting, rather than killed in combat as one would kill an enemy.\n\nAnother citation levied against Heidegger by his critics, is his answer to a question by his former student Herbert Marcuse, concerning his silence about the Nazi racial policies. In a letter to Marcuse, he wrote:\nI can add only that instead of the word \"Jews\" [in your letter] there should be the word \"East Germans\", and then exactly the same [terror] holds true of one of the Allies, with the difference that everything that has happened since 1945 is public knowledge world-wide, whereas the bloody terror of the Nazis was in fact kept a secret from the German people.\"\n\nThe reference to East Germans concerns the expulsion of Germans after World War II from territories across eastern Europe, which displaced about 15 million and killed another 0.5-0.6 million, involved gang-rapes and looting throughout East Germany, East Prussia, and Austria, and harshly punitive de-industrialization policies.\n\nOn September 23, 1966, Heidegger was interviewed by Rudolf Augstein and Georg Wolff for \"Der Spiegel\" magazine, in which he agreed to discuss his political past provided that the interview be published posthumously (it was published on May 31, 1976). At his own insistence, Heidegger edited the published version of the interview extensively. In the interview, Heidegger defends his involvement with the Nazi party on two points: first, that he was trying to save the university from being completely taken over by the Nazis, and therefore he tried to work with them. Second, he saw in the historic moment the possibility for an \"awakening\" (\"Aufbruch\") which might help to find a \"new national and social approach\" to the problem of Germany's future, a kind of middle ground between capitalism and communism. For example, when Heidegger talked about a \"national and social approach\" to political problems, he linked this to Friedrich Naumann. According to Thomas Sheehan, Naumann had the \"vision of a strong nationalism and a militantly anticommunist socialism, combined under a charismatic leader who would fashion a middle-European empire that \"preserved the spirit and tradition of pre-industrial Germany even as it appropriated, in moderation, the gains of modern technology.\"\n\nAfter 1934, Heidegger claims in the interview, he was more critical of the Nazi government, largely prompted by the violence of the Night of the Long Knives. When the interviewers asked him about the 1935 lecture in which he had referred to the \"inner truth and greatness of [the National Socialist] movement\" (i.e. the lecture now incorporated into the book \"Introduction to Metaphysics\"; see above), Heidegger said that he used this phrase so that Nazi informants who observed his lectures would understand him to be praising National Socialism, but his dedicated students would know this statement was no eulogy for the Nazi party. Rather, he meant it as he expressed it in the parenthetical clarification added in 1953, namely, as \"the confrontation of planetary technology and modern humanity.\"\n\nHowever, Karl Löwith's account of his meeting with Heidegger in 1936 (discussed above) has been cited to refute these contentions. According to Lowith, Heidegger did not make any decisive break with National Socialism in 1934, and Heidegger was willing to entertain more profound relations between his philosophy and political involvement than he would subsequently admit.\n\nThe \"Der Spiegel\" interviewers were not in possession of most of the evidence for Heidegger's Nazi sympathies now known, and thus their questions did not press too strongly on those points. In particular, the \"Der Spiegel\" interviewers did not bring up Heidegger's 1949 quotation comparing the industrialization of agriculture to the extermination camps. Interestingly, \"Der Spiegel\" journalist George Wolff had been an SS-Hauptsturmführer with the Sicherheitsdienst, stationed in Oslo during World War II, and had been writing articles with antisemitic and racist overtones in \"Der Spiegel\" since war’s end.\n\nIn 1967, Heidegger met with the poet Paul Celan, a Jew who had survived concentration camps operated by the Nazis' Romanian allies. On July 24 Celan gave a reading at the University of Freiburg, attended by Heidegger. Heidegger there presented Celan with a copy of \"What is Called Thinking?\", and invited him to visit him at his hut at \"Todtnauberg\", an invitation which Celan accepted. On July 25 Celan visited Heidegger at his retreat, signing the guestbook and spending some time walking and talking with Heidegger. The details of their conversation are not known, but the meeting was the subject of a subsequent poem by Celan, entitled \"Todtnauberg\" (dated August 1, 1967). The enigmatic poem and the encounter have been discussed by numerous writers on Heidegger and Celan, notably Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe. A common interpretation of the poem is that it concerns, in part, Celan's wish for Heidegger to apologize for his behavior during the Nazi era.\n\nAlthough Heidegger's involvement with Nazism was known and had already divided philosophers, the publication, in 1987, of Victor Farias' book \"Heidegger and Nazism\" provoked on the topic an open controversy. Farias had access to many documents, including some preserved in the STASI archives. The book, which tries to show that Heidegger supported Hitler and his racial policies and also denounced or demoted colleagues, was highly acclaimed but also starkly criticised. The American philosopher Richard Rorty declared that \"Farias' book includes more concrete information relevant to Heidegger's relations with the Nazis than anything else available\", while French philosopher Roger-Pol Droit commented: \"Mercilessly well-informed, this book is a bomb\".\n\nFarias was accused, however, of poor scholarship and sensationalism. In Germany, Hans-Georg Gadamer, a former student of Heidegger, denounced Farias' \"grotesque superficiality\" and historian Hugo Ott remarked that Farias' methodology was unacceptable in historical research. In France, philosopher Jacques Derrida said Farias's work was \"sometimes so rough one wonders if the investigator [has read] Heidegger [for] more than an hour\", while Paul Celan's translator Pierre Joris described it as \"a savage attempt to demolish Heidegger's thought\". François Fédier, one of Heidegger's friends and translators, claimed he could refute all Farias' allegations point by point.\nIn his 1985 book \"The Philosophical Discourse of Modernity\", Jürgen Habermas wrote that Heidegger's lack of explicit criticism against Nazism is due to his unempowering turn (\"Kehre\") towards Being as time and history: \"he detaches his actions and statements altogether from himself as an empirical person and attributes them to a fate for which one cannot be held responsible.\"\n\nIn 2005, the controversy was renewed after Emmanuel Faye published a book with the provocative title \"Heidegger: The Introduction of Nazism into Philosophy\" Faye claims that Heidegger's philosophy was close to Nazism and that fascist and racist ideas are so woven into the fabric of his thought that it does not deserve to be called philosophy. Rather, according to Faye, Heidegger's work should be classified as part of the history of Nazism rather than as philosophy. A debate on the subject that involved Faye and François Fédier was broadcast on French television in 2007. A group of specialists gathered by Fédier (\"Heidegger, all the more reason\") heavily criticized Faye for his lack of competence in German and for faking or falsifying quotations.\n\nNumerous other Heidegger scholars, themselves critical of Heidegger's relation to Nazism, have taken issue with Faye's claims. For example, Richard Wolin, a close reader of the Heidegger controversy since Farias's book, has said that he is not convinced by Faye's position. Peter Gordon, in a long review of Faye's book raises a handful of objections, including the accusation that Faye lets his own philosophical leanings prevent him from treating Heidegger fairly.\n\nRecently the thesis of Faye's followers F. Rastier and S. Kellerer, that Heidegger's membership in Hans Frank's committee for philosophy of right (from 1934 until at least 1936) included a participation in the holocaust was rejected by K. Nassirin.\n\nEmmanuel Faye claims Heidegger criticized the \"Jewification\" (\"Verjudung\") of German universities in 1916, and favored instead the promotion of the \"German race\" (\"die deutsche Rasse\"). Faye also claims that Heidegger said of Spinoza that he was \"ein Fremdkörper in der Philosophie\", a \"foreign body in philosophy\" – according to Faye, \"Fremdkörper\" was a term that belonged to Nazi vocabulary, and not to classical German. However, this quote is not to be found in Heidegger's writings. Moreover, Rüdiger Safranski reports that Heidegger in the 1930s defended Spinoza during a lecture, arguing that if Spinoza's philosophy is Jewish, then the whole of philosophy from Leibniz to Hegel is Jewish as well.\n\nFarias states that the widow of Ernst Cassirer claimed she had heard of Heidegger's \"inclination to anti-Semitism\" by 1929. Farias also says that in June 1933, Karl Jaspers criticized \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", a propaganda book supporting anti-Semitic conspiracy theories, and Jaspers recalled much later that Heidegger had responded: \"But there is a dangerous international alliance of Jews.\" On the other hand, Jaspers testified in his report of December 1945: \"In the twenties, Heidegger was no anti-Semite. With respect to this question he did not always exercise discretion. This doesn't rule out the possibility that, as I must assume, in other cases anti-Semitism went against his conscience and his taste.\" Of course it doesn't rule it in either.\n\nThere were \"rumors\" that Heidegger was anti-Semitic by 1932, and he was aware of them, and vehemently denied them, calling them \"slander\" in a letter to Hannah Arendt. In response to her concern about these rumors that he was \"becoming\" anti-Semitic, Heidegger wrote ironically:\nThis man who comes anyway and urgently wants to write a dissertation is a Jew. The man who comes to see me every month to report on a large work in progress is also a Jew. The man who sent me a substantial text for an urgent reading a few weeks ago is a Jew. The two fellows whom I helped get accepted in the last three semesters are Jews. The man who, with my help, got a stipend to go to Rome is a Jew. Whoever wants to call this 'raging anti-Semitism' is welcome to do so. Beyond that, I am now just as much an anti-Semite in University issues as I was ten years ago in Marburg. To say absolutely nothing about my personal relationships with Jews [e.g. Husserl, Misch, Cassirer, and others]. And above all it cannot touch my relationship to you.\n\nAccording to Karl Löwith, several Nazis themselves seemed not to believe in Heidegger's anti-Semitism:\nThe petty-bourgeois orthodoxy of the party was suspicious of Heidegger’s National Socialism insofar as Jewish and racial considerations played no role. [His book] \"Sein und Zeit\" [\"Being and Time\"] was dedicated to the Jew Husserl, his Kant-book to the half-Jew Scheler, and in his courses at Freiburg, Bergson and Simmel were taught. His spiritual concerns did not seem to conform to those of the “Nordic race”, which cared little about Angst in the face of nothingness. Conversely, Professor H. Naumann did not hesitate to explain German mythology with the help of concepts from \"Sein und Zeit\", discovering “care” in Odin and the “they” in Baldur. Yet neither the aforementioned disdain nor approval of his National Socialist credentials counts for much in itself. Heidegger’s decision for Hitler went far beyond simple agreement with the ideology and program of the Party. He was and remained a National Socialist, as did Ernst Jünger, who was certainly on the margins and isolated, but nevertheless far from being without influence. Heidegger’s influence came through the radicalism with which he based the freedom of one’s ownmost individual as well as German \"dasein\" [being-there] on the manifestness of the naught (des Nichts).\n\nHeidegger commented on the Nazi identification of Judaism and Communism in 1936, writing that:\nThe final form of Marxism [...] has essentially nothing to do with either Judaism or even with Russia; if somewhere a non-developed spiritualism is still slumbering, it is in the Russian people; Bolshevism is originally Western; it is a European possibility: the emergence of the masses, industry, technology, the extinction of Christianity; but inasmuch as the dominance of reason as an equalizing of everyone is but the consequence of Christianity and as the latter is fundamentally of Jewish origin (cf. Nietzsche's thought on the slave revolt with respect to morality), Bolshevism is in fact Jewish; but then Christianity is also fundamentally Bolshevist!\n\nFirst published in 2014, Heidegger's \"Black Notebooks\", written between 1931 and 1941, contain several anti-semitic statements, have led to more re-evaluation of the issue.\n\nIn his preface to Heidegger's \"Zollikon Seminars\", Medard Boss writes: \"I made inquiries and Heidegger very clearly seemed to be the most slandered man I had ever encountered. He had become entangled in a network of lies by his colleagues. Most of the people, who were unable to do serious harm to the substance of Heidegger's thinking, tried to get at Heidegger the man with personal attacks. The only remaining puzzle was why Heidegger did not defend himself against these slanders publicly.\" Fédier comments on this point with Nietzsche's remark that \"the philosopher has to be the bad conscience of his age.\" In 2015 Nils Gilje, professor of Philosophy at University of Bergen, said to media that \"There is little that indicates that Heidegger defended the more or less official German racial politics\".\n\n\n\nIn French\n"}
{"id": "1370966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1370966", "title": "Matthias W. Baldwin", "text": "Matthias W. Baldwin\n\nMatthias William Baldwin (December 10, 1795 – September 7, 1866) was an American inventor and machinery manufacturer, specializing in the production of steam locomotives. Baldwin's small machine shop, established in 1825, grew to become Baldwin Locomotive Works, one of the largest and most successful locomotive manufacturing firms in the United States. The most famous of the early locomotives was \"Old Ironsides\", built by Matthias Baldwin in 1832.\n\nMatthias W. Baldwin was born December 10, 1795, in Elizabethtown, New Jersey. He was the youngest of five children born to a prosperous carriage builder named William Baldwin. Following his father's death in 1799, executors of the Baldwin estate proved unequal to the task, however, and his widow and children were left in difficult financial circumstances owing to their poor management.\n\nAlthough he received a very satisfactory common school education, Baldwin's inclination and aptitude related to mechanical tinkering from an early age. Toys would be deconstructed and reassembled to learn their inner workings and spare bits and pieces of machinery would be put to new use in a makeshift workshop inside his mother's home.\n\nIn 1811 the 16-year-old Baldwin was made an apprentice jewelry maker to the Woolworth Brothers of Frankford, Pennsylvania. Apprenticeship in these days was a virtually coercive relationship marked by long hours of labor and miserable compensation. In 1817, shortly before the fixed term of his indenture was completed, Baldwin moved together with his mother to Philadelphia. There the budding jewelry maker was employed by the firm of Fletcher & Gardner, one of the leading jewelry manufacturers of the city.\n\nBaldwin proved to be a valuable journeyman employee over the course of the next two years. In 1819 Baldwin quit Fletcher & Gardner and began to work as an independent silversmith. Baldwin quickly proved himself a skilled and innovative craftsman, and developed a revolutionary new technique for making gold plate. Rather than the painstaking application of gold leaf to base metal, Baldwin's method of manufacture made use of soldering a piece of gold to the base metal and rolling the two together until the requisite thickness was attained. Baldwin's technique came to gain wide acceptance as the industry standard although, unfortunately for him, it was never protected through acquisition of a patent.\n\nDuring the middle 1820s demand for jewelry and silverware suddenly experienced a dramatic decline, forcing Baldwin to search for a new occupation. In 1825, Baldwin went into partnership with a machinist named David Mason to form a company which made industrial equipment for printers and bookbinders: tools, dies, and machines that had previously been exclusively imported from Europe. The pair became involved in the manufacture of printing cylinders and perfected an improved process for the etching of steel plates.\n\nThe needs of the growing firm demanded both larger quarters and an improved power source. In 1828 Baldwin devised and constructed his first steam engine, a stationary device that produced 5 horsepower of output and remained in use in the shop for four decades. Baldwin's engine was not only the most powerful of its day but also incorporated mechanical innovation to power rotary motion, which ultimately came to have application in transport, including marine engine design. The original engine still survives in the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC.\n\nDemand for steam engines proved to be great and Baldwin and Mason quickly supplanted their printing machinery business with an engine-making division. Within a decade the firm would be regarded as the top engine maker in the country.\n\nBaldwin put his knowledge of stationary steam engines to new use in 1831 when he constructed his first experimental steam locomotive. Based on designs first shown at the Rainhill Trials in England, Baldwin's prototype was a small demonstration engine that was displayed at Peale's Philadelphia City Museum. The engine was strong enough to pull a few cars that carried four passengers each. This locomotive was unusual for the time in that it burned coal, which was available locally, instead of wood.\n\nThe next year Baldwin built his first commissioned steam locomotive for the fledgling Philadelphia, Germantown & Norristown Railroad. This engine, nicknamed \"Old Ironsides,\" traveled at the rate of only in initial trials made on November 23, 1832, but the machine was later refined and improved so that a peak speed of was attained. It weighed over 5 tons, with diameter rear wheels, cylinders with stroke and a diameter boiler which took 20 minutes to raise steam. This locomotive was a 2-2-0 (Whyte notation) type, meaning it had one unpowered leading axle and one powered driving axle. Although contracted for $4,000, owing to performance shortcomings a compromise price of $3,500 between the railroad and the budding Baldwin Locomotive Works was ultimately agreed upon and received.\n\nBaldwin was issued \"Art of managing and supplying fire for generating steam in locomotive-engines\" in 1836. As the text of the patent explained \"\"The intention of this new mode of managing the fire is to enable me, at each water station, or any convenient place to have a clear coal fire waiting the arrival of the engine so that the grate or fire-place which has been in use, may be detached or slid out, and that containing the clear fire, made to occupy its place.\" \"\n\nBaldwin was a devout member of the Presbyterian Church and a consistent donor to religious and secular charitable causes throughout his life. In 1824 he was a founder of the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia.\n\nIn 1835, he donated money to establish a school for African-American children in Philadelphia and continued to pay the teachers' salaries out of his own pocket for years thereafter. Baldwin was an outspoken supporter for the abolition of slavery in the United States, a position that was used against him and his firm by competitors eager to sell locomotives to railroads based in the slaveholding South.\n\nBaldwin was a member of the 1837 Pennsylvania State Constitutional Convention and emerged as a defender of voting rights for the state's black male citizens.\n\nBaldwin married a distant cousin in 1827, Sarah C. Baldwin. Together, they had three children.\n\nOne of his last philanthropic efforts was the donation of 10% of his company's income to the Civil War Christian Mission in the early 1860s.\n\nBaldwin died on September 7, 1866, at his country home in Wissinoming, today a Philadelphia neighborhood which was at the time located just outside Philadelphia proper.\n\nAt the time of its founder's death, his Baldwin Locomotive Works had produced some 1,500 steam locomotives. The company would continue as a leader in this field, producing a total of approximately 75,000 steam locomotive engines before it terminated production in 1956. He is buried in Laurel Hill Cemetery, Philadelphia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5779046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5779046", "title": "Max Dessoir", "text": "Max Dessoir\n\nMaximilian Dessoir (8 February 1867 – 19 July 1947) was a German philosopher, psychologist and theorist of aesthetics.\n\nDessoir was born in Berlin, into a Jewish family, his parents being Ludwig Dessoir (1810-1874), \"Germany's most admired Shakespearean actor\", and Ludwig's third wife Auguste Grünemeyer (died about 1924). Max earned doctorates from the universities of Berlin (philosophy, 1889) and Würzburg (medicine, 1892). He was a professor at Berlin from 1897 until 1933, when the Nazis forbade him to teach.\n\nAn associate of Pierre Janet and Sigmund Freud, Dessoir published in 1890 a book on \"The Double Ego\", describing the mind as divided into two layers, each with its own associative links - its own chain of memory. He considered that the 'underconsciousness' (\"Unterbewusstein\") emerged in such phenomena as dreams, hypnosis, and dual personality. His work was built on by Otto Rank in his study of the Doppelgänger.\n\nIn an article of 1894, Dessoir published an account of the evolution of the sex instinct from undifferentiated to differentiated, which was taken up by Albert Moll and Sigmund Freud. Freud cites it approvingly in his \"Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality\".\n\nConsidered a Neo-Kantian philosopher Max Dessoir founded the \"Zeitschift für Ästhetik und allgemeine Kunstwissenschaft\", which he edited for many years, and published the work \"Ästhetik und allgemeine Kunstwissenschaft\" in which he formulated five primary aesthetic forms: the beautiful, the sublime, the tragic, the ugly, and the comic.\n\nHe died in Königstein im Taunus.\n\nIn 1889, in an article in the German periodical Sphinx, Dessoir coined the term 'parapsychology' (actually in its German equivalent, 'Parapsychologie'): \"If one ... characterizes by \"para-\" something going beyond or besides the ordinary, than one could perhaps call the phenomena that step outside the usual process of the inner life parapsychical, and the science dealing with them parapsychology. The word is not nice, yet in my opinion it has the advantage to denote a hitherto unknown fringe area between the average and the pathological states; however, more than the limited value of practical usefulness such neologisms do not demand.\"\n\nDessoir was a member of the Society for Psychical Research. He was highly skeptical of physical mediumship. He was the author of the book \"Vom Jenseits der Seele: Die Geheimwissenschaften in kritischer Betrachtung\" (\"The \"beyond\" of the soul: occult sciences critically examined\") that went through six editions. The book contained skeptical information on the mediums Jan Guzyk, Franek Kluski, Henry Slade and many others. The 1930 sixth edition (reprinted in 1967) contained an exposure of the alleged poltergeist victim Eleonore Zugun. According to Dessoir she had performed the phenomena fraudulently.\n\nDessoir was an amateur magician who had used the pseudonym \"Edmund W. Rells\". He was interested in the history and psychology of magic. He published a series of articles entitled \"The Psychology of Legerdemain\", which were printed in five weekly installments for the \"Open Court\" journal from 23 March – 20 April 1893.\n\nHis article \"Psychology of the Art of Conjuring\" was included in H. J. Burlingame's book \"Around the World with a Magician and a Juggler\" (1891).\n\n\nOn magic\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17627567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17627567", "title": "Merger doctrine (antitrust law)", "text": "Merger doctrine (antitrust law)\n\nIn U.S. antitrust law, the phrase \"merger doctrine\" is used to broadly describe the approaches that courts have taken to address mergers between corporations which might tend to reduce competition and raise prices. More specifically, courts tend to make separate discussions of a \"horizontal merger doctrine\" (where direct competitors merge) and \"vertical merger doctrine\" (where a company merges with its own suppliers and distributors, cutting them off from supplying or distributing to competitors).\n"}
{"id": "41078222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41078222", "title": "Metaphilosophy (journal)", "text": "Metaphilosophy (journal)\n\nMetaphilosophy is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering metaphilosophy. It is abstracted and indexed by PhilPapers and the Philosopher's Index.\n\n\"Metaphilosophy\" was established in 1970 by Terry Bynum and Richard Reese. \"Metaphilosophy\" was given a working definition in the first issue of the journal as \"the investigation of the nature of philosophy, with the central aim of arriving at a satisfactory explanation of the absence of uncontested philosophical claims and arguments.\" The journal is published by John Wiley & Sons and the editor-in-chief is Armen T. Marsoobian (Southern Connecticut State University).\n\n"}
{"id": "2203174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2203174", "title": "Misinformation", "text": "Misinformation\n\nMisinformation is false or incorrect information that is spread intentionally or unintentionally (i.e. without realizing it is untrue). While this is not a new practice, the dissemination of false information has now become identical with the term “fake news.”\n\nEven before the age of technological advances, there has been public access to misinformation. The biggest culprit at the time was the media. In 1948, the Chicago Tribune printed the infamous headline \"Dewey Defeats Truman\".\n\nIn an age of technological advances, social networking sites are becoming more and more popular. These sites are an easy access point for misinformation. They provide users with the capabilities to spread information quickly to other users without confirmation of its truth. This also makes things more difficult when several other users can share or change data to accommodate their own thoughts. When researching these sources, it is important to learn the extent of which the misinformation will be disseminated, to what audience, and how quickly it will spread. These important clues can help Web sites know what plans of action need to be taken to avoid outbreaks.\n\nAccording to Anne Mintz, editor of \"Web of Deception: Misinformation on the Internet\", the best ways to find if information is factual is to use common sense. Look to see if information makes sense, if the founders or reporters of the sites are biased or have an agenda, and look at where the sites may be found. It is highly recommended to look at other sites (particularly verified source like news channels) for that information, as it might be published and heavily researched, providing more concrete details.\n\nMartin Libicki, author of \"Conquest In Cyberspace: National Security and Information Warfare\", noted that the trick to working with misinformation is the idea that readers must have a balance of what is truth and what is wrong. Readers cannot be gullible but cannot be paranoid that all information is incorrect. There is always a chance that even readers who have this balance will believe an error or they will disregard the truth as wrong. Libicki says that prior beliefs or opinions affect how readers interpret information as well. When readers believe something to be true before researching it, they are more likely to believe something that supports their prior thoughts. This may lead readers to believe misinformation.\n\nMisinformation is spread for numerous reasons. The next three sections explain how misinformation has spread and continues to spread as the Internet and other technologies expand. One such example is an attempt to confuse or misdirect a target or targeted group with manipulative writing.\n\nContemporary social media structures offer a rich ground for the spreading of misinformation which is extremely dangerous for political deliberations in a self-governing civilization. These platforms provide a bullhorn to anyone who can entice and charm supporters. This novel power structure allows an insignificant number of individuals, equipped with methodical, social or political expertise, to dispense huge volumes of disinformation, or “fake news.” This misinformation on social media is predominantly powerful and risky for two reasons -- a profusion of sources and the generation of ‘echo spaces.’ Weighing the reliability of information on social media is more and more becoming a challenge due to the explosion of information sources, heightened by the untrustworthy social signals that go with such information. The inclination of people to follow or support like-minded individuals leads to the formation of echo spaces and filter bubbles, which intensify division. With no differing information to counter the untruths or the general agreement within isolated social clusters, the outcome is a dearth, and worse, the absence of a collective reality, which can prove troublesome and dangerous to society. Among other risks, such situations can allow biased and seditious ideas to enter public discourse and be considered as pure fact. Once entrenched, such impressions can sequentially be utilized to produce fall guys, to standardize biases, to reinforce ‘us-versus-them’ mindsets and even, in extreme cases, to validate violent acts.\n\nThe Internet allows writers to write anything without peer review, qualifications, or backup documentation. Whereas a book found in a library generally has been reviewed and edited, Internet sources do not have the same filter. They may be produced and put out to the world to see as soon as the writing is finished.\n\nA state may have official secrets, in wartime and even in peacetime. This state would not want the weaknesses of its weapons, its troop movements, its ship sailings, or any shortages of essential components of its military to be available to the public, because enemy agents might get such information and use it to their advantage. Soldiers would be told only what they need be told at the time so that if they should be captured they would not divulge valuable information to the enemy. Governments might try to discourage curiosity about details that could harm the nation if they got into the wrong hands. To be sure, the state cannot deny even such information as casualty lists or military setbacks and cannot avoid acknowledging historical fact. The state may announce the truth when the truth can no longer harm military objectives—and must do so in a timely manner so that it can maintain its credibility. Failure to inform the public about this information could foster rumors and misinformation, creating possible harm to those involved.\n\nAn example to ignorance in the media can be seen when in November 2005, Chris Hansen on \"Dateline NBC\" made a claim that law enforcement officials estimate 50,000 predators are online at any moment. Afterwards the attorney general at the time, Alberto Gonzales, stated that \"Dateline\" estimated 50,000 predators are online at any given moment. However, the number that Hansen used in his reporting had no backing. Hansen said he received the information from \"Dateline\" expert Ken Lanning. However, Lenning admitted that he made up the number 50,000 because there was no solid data on the number. According to Lenning, he used 50,000 because it sounds like a real number, not too big or not too small and referred to it as a \"Goldilocks number\". The number 50,000, is used often in the media to estimate number when reporters are unsure of the exact data, reporter Carl Bialik has said.\n\nBecause news and Web sites are all working to get the most viewers, there is a need for great efficiency in releasing stories to the public. News media companies broadcast stories 24 hours a day, and break the latest news in hopes of getting more views than their competitors. News is also produced at such rates that it does not always allow for fact-checking, or for all of the facts to be given at one time, letting readers or viewers insert their own opinions, and possibly leading to the spread of misinformation.\n\nMisinformation can affect all aspects of life. When eavesdropping on conversations, one can gather facts that may not always be true or the receiver may hear the message incorrectly and spread the information to others. On the Internet, one can read facts that may not have been checked or may be erroneous in its entirety. On the news, companies may emphasize the speed at which they receive and send information but may not always be correct in the facts.\n\nIn the world of politics, being a misinformed citizen can be viewed as worse than being an uninformed citizen. Misinformed citizens can state their beliefs and opinions with confidence and in turn affect elections and policies. This type of misinformation comes from speakers not always being upfront and straightforward. When information is presented as vague, ambiguous, sarcastic, or partial, receivers are forced to piece the information together and assume what is correct.\n\nAs a result of the growing misinformation that spreads through the media about politics and the news, websites online have been created to discern fact from fiction. For example, the site FactCheck.org, has a mission is to fact check the media, especially on fact checking politician's speeches and stories going viral on the internet. The site also includes a forum where people can openly ask questions about information they're not sure is true in both the media and the internet. Sources like this site, offers a space where the public can come together and make sure the stories that are floating in the media sphere are valid and reliable.\n\nThere have been also some scholars and activists pioneering a movement to eliminate the mis/disinformation and information pollution in the digital world. The theory they are developing is called \"information environmentalism\", which has become a curriculum in some universities and colleges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18748916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18748916", "title": "Missed connection", "text": "Missed connection\n\nA missed connection is a type of personal advertisement which arises after two people meet but are too shy or otherwise unable to exchange contact details. The Missed Connections section of Craigslist gets thousands of ads of this type every month for cities such as New York and San Francisco.\n\nThe feature was started by Jim Buckmaster, Craigslist's CEO, after he noticed a common type of posting in their personal ads, which he characterised as \"you-smiled-at-me-on-the-subway-platform\". He sees the format as addressing a common human need and being ideal for romantic comedy, \"Missed Connections give people that second chance ... They represent persistence in the face of long odds, which definitely adds to their artistic appeal.\" A variety of such artistic works have been developed including illustrations, movies, plays, poetry and songs.\n\nOther major cities have similar columns in Craigslist and their own local media. For example, London's \"Metro\" newspaper has a \"Rush-hour Crush\" column for commuters who exchange glances but nothing more. Many connections are re-established and couples have become married in this way, such as \"tall rugby player\" and \"beautiful lady in the red dress with long brown curly hair\". Various websites like Gumtree also offer the possibility of finding a missed connection.\n\nThe nature and location of missed connections have been analysed. Across the USA in 2013, the breakdown by gender was:\n\n\nIn the Pacific NW, the most common location was on the bus. In the Pacific SW, it was the gym. In the North East, it was the subway and train. In the Midwest, it was the supermarket. In Texas and the Gulf, it was Walmart.\n\nThe online format for this on Craigslist scrolls so that postings disappear after 45 days. This gives a second possibility of a poignant loss as the posting might not be seen in time to reunite the couple. Mobile phone apps such as Grindr or Spotted have been created which facilitate hook-ups between strangers immediately. These require location data which may be a security concern. Protocols for facilitating such encounters more safely have been proposed.\n\nThe topic has been used as a theme by artists and authors. The New York Transit Museum held a special exhibition of such work on Valentine's Day of 2011. Sophie Blackall's \"Missed Connections: Love, Lost and Found\" was featured. One of her favourites was \"We Shared a Bear Suit at an Apartment Party\" — \"I thought that was brilliant. How could you share a bear suit with somebody and not exchange any details? It seemed like such an intimate thing to do.\" Poet Alan Feuer was also featured. He has turned such entries into poetry with themes such as elevators or intoxication; for example:\n\n<poem>\nTo Jennifer the Chinese Girl Who Drank and Passed Out\n\nJennifer the Chinese girl\nwho passed out.\nYou met me\nthe tall european guy\nand I invited you for a drink.\n\nI bought the half pitcher of sangria\nYou downed those three drinks\nand I told you\nyou were drinking too fast\nand to sip them\n\nO.M.G. you passed out in the bathroom\nand the owners called an ambulance\nI feel so bad ...\nI never got your number\nand I want to know\nthat you are OK.\n</poem>\n\nOther artistic uses of the theme include \"Missed Connections NY\" — a theatrical presentation of thirteen vignettes and comic songs — by the Upright Citizens Brigade and the long-running . A variety of romantic movies have been made about couples meeting through personal ads such as \"Desperately Seeking Susan\" and \"Sleepless in Seattle\". One movie was named after the Craigslist feature — \"Missed Connections\". It starred Sting's daughter, Mickey Sumner, and opened at the Savannah Film Festival in 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32187943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32187943", "title": "Norbert-Bertrand Barbe", "text": "Norbert-Bertrand Barbe\n\nNorbert-Bertrand Barbe is a French art historian, semiologist, artist and writer. He was born in 1968 and has a master's degree in art history (Université Paris X, 1991) and a Ph.d. in Comparative Literature (Université d'Orléans, 1996). He is an Honorary Member of the Nicaraguan Academy of Language.\n\n\nHe worked as a teacher and researcher since 1992 in several French, Costa Rican and Nicaraguan institutions. His fields are the Middle Ages, modern times and the contemporary era.He dedicated himself to the study of symbolic productions, (plastic arts), literature, cinema, myths and the methodological and epistemological rationalization of its approach. He developed this approach in his doctoral thesis \"The themes of the Raft of the Medusa by Théodore Géricault studied through their recurrence in the work of the painter, and art and literature of the 19th century\" (1992) and \"Roland Barthes and the aesthetic theory\" (1996), in his book \"Arturo Andrés Roig and the epistemological problem\" (1998). He is the author of more than 1200 articles. published in national print media and magazines (France, Spain, United States, Mexico, Nicaragua), and on internet (Spain, Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela, Puerto Rico, Costa Rica).\n\nAs editor, he published more than two hundred books, more than fifty such as author, and about ten as a translator. So he is the first and only translator and editor to the French of the major classics of Nicaraguan literature, like Salomón de la Selva, Alfonso Cortés, Ernesto Cardenal and Carlos Martinez Rivas.\nThe theoretical books by Norbert-Bertrand Barbe are accessible on the main University libraries around the world (Yale, Princeton, Emory, Harvard, Oxford, Heidelberg, La Sorbonne, Tokyo, Kyoto, etc., as well as in the Library of Congress or in the National Library of Sweden).\nAmong these texts are, in addition to the already mentioned texts: Darian Studies (2001), Latin American studies (2004), Bosch Bruegel (2004), Two attempts to understand advertising today (2004) A roll of the dice will never abolish chance or Stéphane Mallarmé and the question of abstract art (2004), Europe and Latin America Meeting Dialogues (2007).\nPublished in 2001, his thesis on Barthes provided a framework to a set of 4 books, contemporary groups, which sought to study systematically the symbolic productions from the comparatist and panoskian principles raised in it: 1 / \"Iconologia and the ArteFactos in Managua\" (2001, 2005) in the plastic arts, respectively of Europe from the romanesque Crucifixion to surrealism and abstract art in the Nicaragua of the 1990s; 2 / \"Literary origins of contemporary thought\" (2001, 2007) with regard to European and American literary material from the 18th century; 3 / \"Myths\" (2001, 2004), on indo-European, medieval European and American mythologies of the origin; 4 / \"Essays on filmic iconology\" and \"Shall We Talk About Cinema\" (2001, 2005), about cinema and advertising.\nIn addition to his articles on literature and Latin American philosophy, published in \"La Prensa\" and \"El Nuevo Diario\" (1997–2007), Barbe participated notably in the nicaraguayan press, with two columns, respectively, weekly and bi-monthly, published in \"El Nuevo Diario\": \"Shall We Talk About Cinema\" (1997–1999) and in the cultural sabbatine supplement \"Nuevo Amanecer Cultural\": \"Culture Lodge\" (2005–2008) on concepts (such as dirt, childhood, movement), art and literature of the 18th - 21st.\nBarbe textbooks have been commented on in national media and magazines specialized in France and England. They served as a basis for thesis in La Sorbonne and in Nicaragua in the Catholic University UNICA.\nBarbe was also the organizer of the \"I International Congress on Panosfky\" (France, 2003), and the editor of the Acts proceeding of the Congress (2004).\n\nIn poetry and art, his work has evolved from a naturalistic expressionism to decomposition formal and narrative questions, particularly through the shocker pop and photomontages. \nIn the 2000s he developed “processal” works and “geometric poems and tales”, which incorporate the concept of “Not Happening” and “reverse literature” in which the structure of the narrative construction appears to the reader/viewer.\nHe is co-founder of the movement Kites (1996–1999) and Any Name (1998–2005), founder of the journal \"Go Home\" (2005 to date) and founder of Bes editions (2001 to date). \nAs a theorist, his path is defined by its interdisciplinarity (Masters in Low Medieval Art History; DEA and Ph.D. in Comparative Literature, respectively modern and contemporary, his Ph.D. touching issues of aesthetic and epistemological study of the works). \nThe main contributions of Norbert Berttand Barbe in the Humanities studies are: \n1/ The unification of a general theory of interpretation of symbolic productions through his books \"Iconologia\" (about visual arts), \"Myths\" (about mythology), \"Literary origins of contemporary thought\" (about literature), \"Essays on filmic iconology\" (about films). \n2/ Mirroring macro phenomena from micro (Nicaragua). \n3/ The comprehensive approach to the development and structural evolution of the modern mentality to the contemporary one studied in its works. In books: \"Culture Lodge\", \"The Construction of the Me\"; \"Literary origins of contemporary thought\"; \"Nothingness in contemporary thought\"; \"Darian Studies\". \n4 / The iconological approach to contemporary art and motifs as minimal units of meaning to assume the abstract work as a historical phenomenon readable since his time. In books: \"Representation: Iconographic problem of contemporary art\"; \"Sur-realism\"; \"The Scream by Edvard Munch: A paradigmatic case of staging iconic codes of an era\"; \"Stéphane Mallarmé and the question of abstract art\". \n5 / The study of modern and contemporary architecture as an expression not just concrete and practical of using necessities, but also intellectual of formal tensions. In books: \"Meaning and context of the Black square on White background by Kazimir Malevich: An testimonial and argumentative object of vanguards in their controversies with figurative art about issues of color and formal composition\"; \"A History of Modern Architecture 12th-18th centuries\"; \"History of contemporary architecture 19th- centuries\". \n6 / The analysis of discourses of domination from the study of mass speech. In books: \"Two essays on Laugh\"; \"Elements of the political construction of contemporary thought nineteenth-twentieth centuries - Criticism and lies: From Public School to Socialism of the century\"; \"Vox Populi: Why we are not free\"; \"Metalanguage and dominance speeches in the postmodern culture and politics\".\n\nTranslator of: \"The Güegüence\"; \"The Unknown Soldier\" by Salomón de la Selva; \"Poetry, Afternoon Gold, Eleusinian Poems, The Doors of Pastime, The Universal Rhymes, The People's Verses, 30 Poems\" by Alfonso Cortes; \"Epigrams\" by Ernesto Cardenal; \"The Paradise Regained, The little girl turned to her death, The Lonely Insurrection, Varia, The way of the bat\" by Carlos Martínez Rivas; \"Pastor of the mistakes\" by Roberto Armijo; \"Torrent of Steel\" by Raul Orozco; \"Raging Orphan\" by Marta Leonor Gonzalez; \"The Plums I kept in the icebox\" by Hector Avellan. \nAuthor of poetry books: \"Diane Games\", \"L'Arma Jane Doe\", Exquisite Corpses, \"Me Blessed Claude\" (aka \"Poems against the National Agency for Employment and Tropical Interlude\"), \" (A little more than) 20 poems of hatred and a desperate song, Tear me out of your heart my love, Nicaraguan Caprices, Microside of Myself, World Stage\". \nPoems and stories published in the following magazines: \"Poètes du Nord-Pas de Calais, Flammes Vives\" (France), \"Regarts\" (Belgium), \"Letras Salvajes\" (Puerto Rico), \"Club de Brian, Café Literario, Al margen.com\" (Mexico), \"Zona de Tolerancia\" (Colombia), \"Hispanic Culture Review\" (United States), \"Katharsis, La Botella Vacía, Ábaco\" (Spain), \"Arte Poética\" (El Salvador), \"Pluma Libre\" (Costa Rica); & in Nicaragua: \"ArteFacto, Estrago, Ojo de Papel, La Tribuna, El Nuevo Diario, La Prensa Literaria, Decenio, Papalotl\" (of which he was co-founder), \"Voces Nocturnas, From XTepetl, Gojón\" (these latter two of which he was the founder). \nAuthor of books of short stories: \"Idiotic Tales 189..., Diary of anxiety on university campus\". \nAuthor of books on art theory and literature: \"Roland Barthes and the aesthetic theory; The themes of the Raft of the Medusa by Géricault studied through their recurrence in the work of the painter, and art and literature of the 19th century\"; \"The wounded cavalryman leaving fire and the patriotic apology in Géricault\"; \"The group of painters from Saint-Jean-De-Mont and the regionalist literary movement of Vendée 1890-1940\", \"Iconologia\" from Bosch and Bruegel to the surrealists; Los ArteFacto in Managua; Essays on filmic iconology; Shall We Talk About Cinema; Literary origins of contemporary thought nineteenth-twentieth centuries; Myths about the God of Fart; Darío Latin Americanist; Darian Studies; Borgian Studies; Latin American Studies; Iconologiae; Arturo Andrés Roig and the epistemological problem; Two essays on laugh; Two essays for understanding advertising today; A roll of the dice will never abolish chance or Stéphane Mallarmé and the question of abstract art; Hitchcock; Europe and Latin America Meetings and Dialogues; A History of Modern Architecture 12th-18th centuries; History of contemporary architecture 19th- centuries. \" \nIllustrator of: \"The Washtub Farce, The strange disappearance of the hood of Santa Claus\". \nColumnist of: \"El Nuevo Diario, La Prensa Literaria, El Nuevo Amanecer Cultural\" (Nicaragua), \"Critique d’Art\" (France). \nCreator of the columns \"Shall We Talk About Cinema\" (1997–1999) de \"El Nuevo Diario, Culture Lodge\" (2005–2006) de \"Nuevo Amanecer Cultural\" de \"El Nuevo Diario\".\n\nPrize Arts and Letters of France in novel and essay (1995).\nHe participated as guest poet at the Poetry International Festival of San Salvador (2006), Havana (2007) and Granada, Nicaragua (2005, 2006, 2007).\n\n1987:Sceaux, France\n1999: \"Sample/s on glass\", UNAN-Managua, 2004: \nNo 5 of the internet magazine: https://web.archive.org/web/20091028052126/http://www.geocities.com/letrassalvajes/N5.html \nNo 3 of the Mexican internet magazine: www.clubdebrian.com \n2005: \"Up To U\", Añil Gallery, Managua. \n2010: \"Rational Works\", Casa de los Tres Mundos, Granada.\n\n\nWorks conserved in the national collections of the Central Bank of Nicaragua and the Museum of Fontenay-le-Comte, France.\n\nAs a filmmaker and video artist:\n\nAs an illustrator and publisher:\n\n\nAs curator:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3967221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3967221", "title": "Phùng Khắc Khoan", "text": "Phùng Khắc Khoan\n\nPhùng Khắc Khoan (1528–1613), known as Trang Bung, was a noted 16th-century Vietnamese military strategist, politician, diplomat and poet during the Later Lê dynasty warlord period.\n\nPhung Khac Khoan headed the diplomatic corps to China during the Ming, during which he took part in a notable summit colloquy, conducted in writing, with the Korean historian Yi Su-gwang in 1597.\n\n"}
{"id": "23669219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23669219", "title": "Phạm Xuân Nguyên", "text": "Phạm Xuân Nguyên\n\nPhạm Xuân Nguyên (born 15 May 1958), better known by his pen name Ngân Xuyên, is a Vietnamese writer and literary translator.\n\nPhạm Xuân Nguyên was born in Nghệ An Province. He did his early education in neighbouring Hà Tĩnh Province, where in grade 6 and again in grade 10 he won district and provincial awards for writing. He studied Russian as his foreign language in high school, and continued learning it as a student in the literature department of the University of Hanoi (\"\", now part of the Vietnam National University, Hanoi). He interrupted his university studies to serve in the People's Army of Vietnam from 1978 to 1982, and was stationed in Ho Chi Minh City. During that period, he began teaching himself French, and had his first translations of French poetry published in the newspaper \"Tiền Phong\". He went on to become chairman of the Hanoi Writers' Association \"(Hội Nhà văn Hà Nội)\".\n\nPhạm Xuân Nguyên speaks Russian, French, and English, and has translated works from all of those languages into Vietnamese. He was first exposed to the works of Milan Kundera in their Russian translations in the Union of Russian Writers journal \"Foreign Literature\" («»), and himself translated \"Immortality\" (which was originally in Czech) into Vietnamese from the Russian version.\n\nAfter he spent more than thirty years translating the works of others under his pen name, his first book of his own under his real name, \"Nhà văn như Thị Nở\" (meaning \"A Writer like Thị Nở\"), was published in 2014. The title is a reference to the character Thị Nở in Nam Cao's 1941 short story \"Chí Phèo\", a woman who is well known for her unattractive appearance. \"Nhà văn như Thị Nở\" is a collection of essays of literary criticism, discussing fifty-one Vietnamese writers including Nam Trân, Thế Lữ, Hải Triều, Hoài Thanh, Nguyễn Tuân, Trương Tửu, Bích Khê, Xuân Diệu, Tố Hữu, Nguyễn Huy Tưởng, Nguyễn Hữu Đang, Hoàng Cầm, Trần Dần, Lê Đạt, Phùng Quán, Bùi Ngọc Tấn, Nguyễn Xuân Khánh, Dương Tường, Bảo Ninh, Nguyễn Quang Lập, and Vi Thùy Linh. Nguyên stated that it took him so long to come out with the book because he was too lazy to collect his previous essays and edit them into a coherent whole; in particular, he mentioned the World Cup season as one of the various reasons for his delays in submitting the final version to the publisher Nhã Nam for printing. Editor Diệu Thủy stated that the whole process took more than four years, and that at one time she even jokingly threatened to burn down Nguyên's house in an effort to get him to submit a draft.\n\nFull citations of translated works:\n"}
{"id": "42396382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42396382", "title": "Right to be forgotten", "text": "Right to be forgotten\n\nThe right to be forgotten is a concept that has been discussed and put into practice both in the European Union (EU) and, since 2006, in Argentina. The issue has arisen from desires of individuals to \"determine the development of their life in an autonomous way, without being perpetually or periodically stigmatized as a consequence of a specific action performed in the past.\"\n\nThere has been controversy about the practicality of establishing a right to be forgotten to the status of an international human right in respect to access to information, due in part to the vagueness of current rulings attempting to implement such a right. Furthermore, there are concerns about its impact on the right to freedom of expression, its interaction with the right to privacy, and whether creating a right to be forgotten would decrease the quality of the Internet through censorship and a rewriting of history. Those in favour of the right to be forgotten cite its necessity due to issues such as revenge porn sites appearing in search engine listings for a person's name, as well as instances of these results referencing petty crimes individuals may have committed many years ago. The central concern here being, these results can unduly play a prominent role in a person's online presence almost indefinitely if not removed.\n\nEurope's data protection legislation are intended to secure potentially damaging, private information about individuals. The notion of \"the right to be forgotten\" is derived from numerous preexisting European ideas. There is a longstanding belief in the United Kingdom, specifically under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act, that after a certain period of time, many criminal convictions are \"spent\", meaning that information regarding said person should not be regarded when obtaining insurance or seeking employment. Similarly, France values this right - le droit à l'oubli (the right to be forgotten). It was officially recognized in French Law in 2010. Views on the right to be forgotten differ greatly between America and EU countries. In America, transparency, the right of free speech according to the First Amendment, and the right to know have typically been favored over the obliteration of truthfully published information regarding individuals and corporations. The term \"right to be forgotten\" is a relatively new idea, though on May 13, 2014, the European Court of Justice legally solidified that the \"right to be forgotten\" is a human right when they ruled against Google in the \"Costeja\" case.\n\nIn 1995, the European Union adopted the European Data Protection Directive (Directive 95/46/EC) to regulate the processing of personal data. This is now considered a component of human rights law. The new European Proposal for General Data Protection Regulation provides protection and exemption for companies listed as \"media\" companies, like newspapers and other journalistic work. However, Google purposely opted out of being classified as a \"media\" company and so is not protected. Judges in the European Union ruled that because the international corporation, Google, is a collector and processor of data it should be classified as a \"data controller\" under the meaning of the EU data protection directive. These \"data controllers\" are required under EU law to remove data that is \"inadequate, irrelevant, or no longer relevant\", making this directive of global importance.\n\nThe right to be forgotten \"reflects the claim of an individual to have certain data deleted so that third persons can no longer trace them.\" It has been defined as \"the right to silence on past events in life that are no longer occurring.\" The right to be forgotten leads to allowing individuals to have information, videos or photographs about themselves deleted from certain internet records so that they cannot be found by search engines.\n\nThe right to be forgotten is distinct from the right to privacy, due to the distinction that the right to privacy constitutes information that is not publicly known, whereas the right to be forgotten involves removing information that was publicly known at a certain time and not allowing third parties to access the information.\n\nLimitations of application in a jurisdiction include the inability to require removal of information held by companies outside the jurisdiction. There is no global framework to allow individuals control over their online image. However, Professor Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, an expert from Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford, said that Google can not escape compliance with the law of France implementing the decision of the European Court of Justice in 2014 on the right to be forgotten. Mayer-Schönberger said nations, including the US, had long maintained that their local laws have \"extra-territorial effects\".\n\nIn Article 12 of the Directive 95/46/EC the EU gave a legal base to internet protection for individuals. In 2012 the European Commission disclosed a draft European Data Protection Regulation to supersede the directive, which includes specific protection in the right to be forgotten in Article 17.\n\nTo exercise the right to be forgotten and request removal from a search engine, one must complete a form through the search engine's website. Google's removal request process requires the applicant to identify their country of residence, personal information, a list of the URLs to be removed along with a short description of each one, and attachment of legal identification. The applicant receives an email from Google confirming the request but the request must be assessed before it is approved for removal. If the request is approved, searches using the individual's name will no longer result in the content appearing in search results. The content remains online and is not erased. After a request is filled, their removals team reviews the request, weighing \"the individual's right to privacy against the public's right to know\", deciding if the website is \"inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant, or excessive in relation to the purposes for which they were processed\". Google has formed an Advisory Council of various professors, lawyers, and government officials from around Europe to provide guidelines for these decisions. However, the review process is still a mystery to the general public. Guidelines set by EU regulators were not released until November 2014, but Google began to take action on this much sooner than that, which (according to one author) allowed them \"to shape interpretation to [their] own ends\". In May 2015, eighty academics called for more transparency from Google, in an open letter.\n\nThe form asks people to select one of the twenty-eight countries that make up the European Union, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland. \"The form allows an individual or someone representing an individual to put in a request\" for the removal of any URLs believed to be a violation of the individual's privacy. Regardless of who is submitting the form, some form of photo identification of the person the form is being submitted for must be presented. The purpose of this is to provide proof that the person for whom the request is being made does in fact approve.\nThe form allows people to submit the name they would like search results removed for. However, it only allows for the submission of one name, which some view as one of its flaws. For example, if someone known as both \"Lawrence Smith\" and \"Larry Smith\" were to submit a form for the removal of search results for his name, he would only be allowed to indicate one of these names on the form. Many people view it as inconvenient and believe it is a problem that Google should be able to easily fix.\n\nIf Google refuses a request to delink material, Europeans can appeal to their local data protection agency. As of May 2015, the British Data Protection Agency had treated 184 such complaints, and overturned Google's decision in about a quarter of those. If Google objects to a Data Protection Agency decision, it can face legal action.\n\nIn July 2014, in the early stages of Google's effort to comply with the court ruling, legal experts questioned whether Google's widely publicised delistings of a number of news articles violated the UK and EU Data Protection Directive, since in implementing the Directive, Google is required to weigh the damage to the person making the request against any public interest in the information being available. Google indeed acknowledged that some of its search result removals, affecting articles that were of public interest, were incorrect, and reinstated the links a week later. Commentators like Charles Arthur, technology editor of \"The Guardian\", and Andrew Orlowski of \"The Register\" noted that Google is not required to comply with removal requests at all, as it can refer requests to the information commissioner in the relevant country for a decision weighing the respective merits of public interest and individual rights.\n\nGoogle notifies websites that have URLs delinked, and the BBC and other news organizations have published lists of delinked articles. Complainants have been named in news commentary regarding those delinkings. In August 2015 the British Data Protection Agency issued an enforcement action requiring Google to delink some of these more recent articles from searches for a complainant's name, after Google refused to do so. Google complied with the request. Some academics have criticized news organizations and Google for their behavior.\n\nAs of May 2014, Google has removed 1,390,838 URLs. From a gathering of which websites had the most amount of links removed, Facebook won with a total of 11,973 URLs removed. YouTube had 5,999 removed, Google Groups had 7,246 removed, and Twitter had 4,588 removed. Though Facebook had the largest number of deleted URLs, there were other received requests that were not granted deletion. While Google does evaluate millions of URLs that have been requested to be removed, the ultimate decision must be made by a human \"because the variables, including public interest claims, needs to be handled on a case-by-case basis\". However, it is to be kept in mind that internet users can still find removed information somewhat easily, just not through European Google search engines.\n\nIn July 2015, Google accidentally revealed data on delinkings that \"shows 95% of Google privacy requests are from citizens out to protect personal and private information – not criminals, politicians and public figures.\"\n\nThis data leak caused serious social consequences for Google as the public expressed their outrage and fear over the information that was recently made public. Though only 5% of requests were made by criminals, politicians, and public figures, the content removed was what sparked the most fear. In particular, one request for data removal was from a British doctor requesting to have 50 links removed on past botched medical procedures. Google agreed to remove three search results containing his personal information. The public voiced their outrage stating that removing such information can be used for manipulation and could lead to innocent people making uninformed decisions. Google responded to the public outrage by saying that when removing content they consider both the right of the individual and public interest.\n\nThe European Union has been pushing for the delinkings requested by EU citizens to be implemented by Google not just in European versions of Google (as in google.co.uk, google.fr, etc.), but on google.com and other international subdomains. Regulators want delinkings to be implemented so that the law cannot be circumvented in any way. Google has refused the French Data Protection Agency's demand to apply the right internationally. Due in part to their refusal to comply with the recommendation of the privacy regulating board Google has become the subject of a four-year-long antitrust investigation by the European Commission. In September 2015, the French Data Protection Agency dismissed Google's appeal.\n\nAs of September 2015, the most delinked site is \"www.facebook.com\". Three of Google's own sites, \"groups.google.com\", \"plus.google.com\" and \"www.youtube.com\" are among the ten most delinked sites. In addition to Google, Yahoo and Bing have also put up forms for making delinking requests.\n\nIn May 2014, the European Court of Justice ruled against Google in \"Costeja\", a case brought by a Spanish man, Mario Costeja González, who requested the removal of a link to a digitized 1998 article in \"La Vanguardia\" newspaper about an auction for his foreclosed home, for a debt that he had subsequently paid. He initially attempted to have the article removed by complaining to the Spanish Agency of data protection, which rejected the claim on the grounds that it was lawful and accurate, but accepted a complaint against Google and asked Google to remove the results. Google sued in the Spanish \"Audiencia Nacional\" (National High Court) which referred a series of questions to the European Court of Justice. The court ruled in \"Costeja\" that search engines are responsible for the content they point to and thus, Google was required to comply with EU data privacy laws. On its first day of compliance only (May 30, 2014), Google received 12,000 requests to have personal details removed from its search engine.\n\nOn October 27, 2009, lawyers for Wolfgang Werlé who—together with Manfred Lauber—was convicted of murdering Walter Sedlmayr sent the Wikimedia Foundation a cease and desist letter requesting that Werlé's name be removed from the English language Wikipedia article Walter Sedlmayr, citing a 1973 Federal Constitutional Court decision that allows the suppression of a criminal's name in news accounts once he is released from custody. Previously, Alexander H. Stopp, attorney for Werlé and Lauber, had won a default judgment in German court, on behalf of Lauber, against the Wikimedia Foundation. According to the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Werlé's lawyers also challenged an Internet service provider in Austria which published the names of the convicted killers.\n\nWikimedia is based in the United States, where the First Amendment protects freedom of speech and freedom of the press. In Germany, the law seeks to protect the name and likenesses of private persons from unwanted publicity. On January 18, 2008, a court in Hamburg supported the personality rights of Werlé, which under German law includes removing his name from archive coverage of the case.\n\nOn November 12, 2009, \"The New York Times\" reported that Wolfgang Werlé had a case pending against the Wikimedia Foundation in a German court. The editors of the German-language Wikipedia removed the names of the murderers, which have since then been restored to the article. \"The Guardian\" observed that the lawsuit has led to the Streisand effect, an upsurge in publicity for the case resulting from the legal action.\n\nOn December 15, 2009, the German Federal Court of Justice (Bundesgerichtshof) in Karlsruhe ruled that German websites do not have to check their archives in order to provide permanent protection of personality rights for convicted criminals. The case occurred after the names of the brothers were found on the website of Deutschlandradio, in an archive article dating from July 2000. The presiding judge Gregor Galke stated \"This is not a blank check\", and pointed out that the right to rehabilitation of offenders had been taken into consideration.\n\nArgentina has seen law suits by celebrities against Google and Yahoo! in which the plaintiffs demand the removal of certain search results, and require removal of links to photographs. One case, brought by artist Virginia da Cunha, involved photographs which had originally been taken with her permission and uploaded with her permission, however she alleged that the search results improperly associated her photographs with pornography. De Cunha's case achieved initial success resulting in Argentine search engines not showing images of the particular celebrity, however this decision is on appeal.\n\nVirginia Simari, the judge in favor of De Cunha, stated that people have the right to control their image and avert others from \"capturing, reproducing, broadcasting, or publishing one's image without permission.\" In addition, Simari used a treatise written by Julio César Rivera, a Buenos Aires lawyer, author, and law professor \"the right to control one's personal data includes the right to prevent others from using one's image.\" Since the 1990s Argentina has also been a part of the habeas data movement in which they \"adopted a constitutional provision that is part freedom-of-government-information law and part data privacy law.\" However, their version is known as amparo. Article 43 explains the version:\n\n\"Any person shall file this action to obtain information on the data about himself and their purpose, registered in public records or databases, or in private ones intended to supply information; and in case of false data or discrimination, this action may be filed to request the suppression, rectification, confidentiality or updating of said data.\"\n\nArgentina's efforts to protect their people's right to be forgotten has been called 'the most complete' because individuals are able to correct, delete, or update information about themselves. Overall, their information is bound to remain confidential.\n\nConsideration of the right to be forgotten can be seen in US case law, specifically in \"Melvin v. Reid\", and in \"Sidis v. FR Publishing Corp.\"\n\nIn \"Melvin v. Reid\" (1931), an ex-prostitute was charged with murder and then acquitted; she subsequently tried to assume a quiet and anonymous place in society. However, the 1925 film \"The Red Kimono\" revealed her history, and she successfully sued the producer. The court reasoned that \"any person living a life of rectitude has that right to happiness which includes a freedom from unnecessary attacks on his character, social standing or reputation.\"\n\nIn \"Sidis v. FR Publishing Corp.\" (1940), the plaintiff, William James Sidis, was a former child prodigy who wished to spend his adult life quietly, without recognition; however, this was disrupted by an article in \"The New Yorker\". The court held here that there were limits to the right to control one's life and facts about oneself, and held that there is social value in published facts, and that a person cannot ignore their celebrity status merely because they want to.\n\nThere is opposition to further recognition of the right to be forgotten in the United States as commentators argue that it will contravene the right to freedom of speech and freedom of expression, or will constitute censorship, thus potentially breaching peoples' constitutionally protected right to freedom of expression in the United States Constitution. These criticisms are consistent with the proposal that the only information that can be removed by user's request is content that they themselves uploaded.\n\nIn a June 2014 opinion piece in Forbes, columnist Joseph Steinberg noted that \"many privacy protections that Americans believe that they enjoy – even some guaranteed by law – have, in fact, been eroded or even obliterated by technological advances.\" Steinberg, in explaining the need for legislation guaranteeing the \"right to be forgotten\", noted that existing laws that require adverse information to be removed from credit reports after a period of time, and that allow the sealing or expunging of criminals records, are effectively undermined by the ability of prospective lenders or employers to forever find the removed information in a matter of seconds by doing a web search.\n\nOn March 11, 2015, Intelligence Squared US, an organization that stages Oxford-Style debates, held an event centered on the question, \"Should the U.S. adopt the 'Right to be Forgotten' online?\" The side against the motion won with a 56% majority of the voting audience.\n\nWhile opinions among experts are divided in the U.S., one survey indicated that 9 in 10 Americans want some form of the right to be forgotten. The consumer rights organization Consumer Watchdog has filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission for Americans to obtain the right as well.\n\nIn March 2017, New York state senator Tony Avella and assemblyman David Weprin introduced a bill proposing that individuals be allowed to require search engines and online speakers to remove information that is \"inaccurate\", \"irrelevant\", \"inadequate\", or \"excessive\", that is \"no longer material to current public debate or discourse\" and is causing demonstrable harm to the subject.\n\nIn April 2016, the Delhi High Court began to examine the issue after a Delhi banker requested to have his personal details removed from search results following a marital dispute. In this case, due to the dispute being settled, the banker's request is valid. The High Court has asked for a reply from Google and other search engine companies by September 19, upon which the court will continue to investigate the issue.\n\nIn January 2017 the Karnataka High Court upheld the right to be forgotten, in a case involving a woman who originally went to court in order to get a marriage certificate annulled, claiming to have never been married to the man on the certificate. After the two parties came to an agreement, the woman's father wanted her name to be removed from search engines regarding criminal cases in the high court. The Karnataka High Court approved the father's request, stating that she had a right to be forgotten. According to the court, its ruling would align with western countries' decisions, which typically approve of the right to be forgotten when dealing with cases \"involving women in general and highly sensitive cases involving rape or affecting the modesty and reputation of the person concerned.\" The woman in this specific case was worried that the search results would affect her standing with her husband, as well as her reputation in society.\n\nAs of February 2017, the Delhi High Court is hearing a case involving a man requesting to have information regarding his mother and wife to be removed from a search engine. The man believes that having his name linked to the search is hindering his employment options. The Delhi High Court is still working on the case, along with the issue of whether or not a right to be forgotten should be a legal standard in India. Currently, there is no legal standard for the right to be forgotten, but if implemented, this would mean that citizens no longer need to file a case in order to request for information from search engines to be removed. This case could have significant impacts on the right to be forgotten and search engines in India.\n\nIn May 2016, South Korea's Korea Communications Commission (KCC) announced citizens will be able to request search engines and website administrators to restrict their own postings from being publicly accessible. The KCC released \"Guidelines on the Right to Request Access Restrictions on Personal Internet Postings\", which will take effect in June 2016, which will not apply to third party contents. To the extent that the right to be forgotten concerns a data subject's right to limit the searchability of third party postings about him/her, the Guideline does not constitute a right to be forgotten. Also, as to the right to withdraw one's own posting, critics have noted that people have been able to delete their own postings before the Guideline as long as they have retained their login credentials, and that people who have misplaced their login credentials were permitted to retrieve or receive new ones. The only services significantly affected by the Guideline are Wiki-type services where people's contributions make logical sense only in response to or in conjunction with one another's contributions and therefore the postings are made permanent part of the mass-created content, but KCC made sure that the Guideline applies to these services only when the posting identifies the authors.\n\nThe guidelines created by the KCC include that data subjects can remove content that includes the URL links, and any evidence consisting of personal information. The commission included different amendments to the guideline. This includes describing the Guidelines as a \"minimum\" and \"preliminary\" precaution regarding privacy rights in vague areas of existing laws. The guideline encompasses foreign Internet companies that provide translation services for South Korean consumers. In order to have a person's information \"forgotten\" he or she has to go through a three step process: the issue posted with the URL, proof of ownership of the post, grounds for the request. There are restrictions on each step. When posting the URL, the web operator has the right to preserve the posting issue. The second being that if the post is relevant to public interest, web operators will process this request on the terms of relevance.\n\nIn May 2016, Chinese courts in Beijing determined citizens do not have the right to be forgotten when a judge ruled in favor of Baidu in a lawsuit over removing search results. It was the first of such cases to be heard in Chinese court. In the suit, Ren Jiayu sued Chinese search engine Baidu over search results that associated him with a previous employer, Wuxi Taoshi Biotechnology. Ren argued that by posting the search results, Baidu had infringed upon his right of name and right of reputation, both protected under Chinese law. Because of these protections, Ren believed he had a right to be forgotten by removing these search results. The court ruled against Ren, claiming his name is a collection of common characters and as a result the search results were derived from relevant words.\n\nChina has one of the longest histories as an entire nation, being over 2000 years of feudal society; their civil laws and personal rights have not been altered through legislative efforts. Nowhere in the country's civil agreement does it discuss the concept of \"privacy\", more specifically internet privacy, and the growing issue that citizens, \"have the right to be forgotten\" on the internet. There is no data protection authority or a specific state agency set in place to monitor the protection of citizens personal data. In China today, data protection is aimed at simply the consumer, as an individual. In contrast to the EU's right to privacy, which the individual is considered a \"data subject\", with the right to be protected. Chinese legislation remains neutral, with slow progression towards the support of the \"right to be forgotten\". The topic has been debated for more than 10 years now, and continues to be a challenge. Small provisions have been implemented related to personal data processing, however they do not amount to a comprehensive data protection regime. There is no solid, common ground to be found on two fundamentally different systems: realistic, to Chinese laws that are already in place, and legalist, the steps it takes to change those laws, approaches that elicit a need for reification.\n\nThe regulatory differences in the protection of personal data between countries has real impact on international relations. The right to be forgotten, specifically, is a matter of EU-US relations when applied to cross-border data flow, as it raises questions about territorial sovereignty. The structure of the Westphalian international system assumes that the reach of a country's jurisdiction is limited to its geographic territory. However, online interactions are independent of geographic location and present across multiple locations, rendering the traditional concept of territorial sovereignty moot. Therefore, the EU and the United States are forced to confront their regulatory differences and negotiate on a set of regulations that apply to all foreign companies processing and handling data of European citizens and residents.\n\nThe regulatory differences on the right to be forgotten along with numerous other data protection rights have shaped discussions and negotiations on trans-Atlantic data privacy regulations. A case in point is the EU and the United States' endeavors to develop the Safe Harbor agreement, a data transfer pact that enables the transfer of data between the EU and US companies in a manner consistent with the EU's data protection schemes. Article 25 of the Data Protection Directive articulates that cross-border transfer of data can take place only if the \"third country in question ensures an adequate level of protection,\" meaning that the country meets the EU's minimum standards of data protection. The standards include, among many provisions, a component that protects the right to \"opt out\" of further processing or transmission of personal data, under the assumption that data may not be further processed in ways inconsistent with the intent for which they were collected. \n\nGiven the inconsistencies between the EU and the United States on numerous digital privacy regulations, including the right to be forgotten, Article 25 poses a threat to trans-Atlantic data flows. Therefore, the EU and the United States entered into negotiations to mediate the differences through the Safe Harbor agreement, which as a result of debate and discussion between the two parties, requires companies to provide individuals with the choice or opportunity to \"opt out\" and afford other protections.\n\nUnder the pressures of the mass surveillance carried out by the US government on European citizens' data, the Safe Harbor agreement has been invalidated by the European Union Court of Justice in its \"Schrems\" case. The Safe Harbor agreement has now been replaced by the Privacy Shield principles.\n\nThe 2012 draft European Data Protection Regulation Article 17 detailed the \"right to be forgotten and to erasure\". Under Article 17 individuals to whom the data appertains are granted the right to \"obtain from the controller the erasure of personal data relating to them and the abstention from further dissemination of such data, especially in relation to personal data which are made available by the data subject while he or she was a child or where the data is no longer necessary for the purpose it was collected for, the subject withdraws consent, the storage period has expired, the data subject objects to the processing of personal data or the processing of data does not comply with other regulation\".\n\nThe EU defines \"data controllers\" as \"people or bodies that collect and manage personal data\". The EU General Data Protection Regulation requires data controllers who have been informed that an individual has requested the deletion of any links to or copies of information must \"take all reasonable steps, including technical measures, in relation to data for the publication of which the controller is responsible, to inform third parties which are processing such data, that a data subject requests them to erase any links to, or copy or replication of that personal data. Where the controller has authorized a third party publication of personal data, the controller shall be considered responsible for that publication\". In the situation that a data controller does not take all reasonable steps then they will be fined heavily.\n\nThe European Parliament was once \"expected to adopt the proposals in first reading in the April 2013 Plenary session\". The right to be forgotten was replaced by a more limited right to erasure in the version of the GDPR adopted by the European Parliament in March 2014. Article 17 provides that the data subject has the right to request erasure of personal data related to him on any one of a number of grounds including non-compliance with article 6.1 (lawfulness) that includes a case (f) where the legitimate interests of the controller is overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data (see also Costeja).\n\nThe European Union is a highly influential group of states, and this movement towards the right to be forgotten in the EU is a step towards its global recognition as a right. To support this, in 2012 the Obama Administration released a \"Privacy Bill of Rights\" to protect consumers online, and while this is not quite the strength of the EU law, it is a step towards recognition of the right to be forgotten.\n\nBusinesses that manage their client's online reputation have responded to the European Court ruling by excercising the right to be forgotten as a means to remove unfavourable information. One technique used by reputation consulting firms is to submit multiple requests for each link, written with different angles in an attempt to get links removed. Google for example does not limit the number of requests that can be submitted on the removal of a given link. \n\nMajor criticisms stem from the idea that the right to be forgotten would restrict the right to freedom of speech. Many nations, and the United States in particular (with the First Amendment to the United States Constitution), have very strong domestic freedom of speech law, which would be challenging to reconcile with the right to be forgotten. Some academics see that only a limited form of the right to be forgotten would be reconcilable with US constitutional law; the right of an individual to delete data that he or she has personally submitted. In this limited form of the right individuals could not have material removed that has been uploaded by others, as demanding the removal of information could constitute censorship and a reduction in the freedom of expression in many countries. Sandra Coliver of the Open Society Justice Initiative argues that not all rights must be compatible and this conflict between the two rights is not detrimental to the survival of either.\n\nThe draft General Data Protection Regulation was written broadly and this has caused concern. It has attracted criticism that its enactment would require data controlling companies to go to great lengths to identify third parties with the information and remove it. The proposed regulation has also attracted criticism due to the fact that this could produce a censoring effect in that companies, such as Facebook or Google, will wish to not be fined under the act, and will therefore be likely to delete wholesale information rather than facing the fine, which could produce a \"serious chilling effect.\" In addition to this, there are concerns about the requirement to take down information that others have posted about an individual; the definition of personal data in Article 4(2) includes \"any information relating to\" the individual. This, critics have claimed, would require companies to take down any information relating to an individual, regardless of its source, which would amount to censorship, and result in the big data companies eradicating a lot of data to comply with this. Such removal can impact the accuracy and ability of businesses and individuals to carry out business intelligence, particularly due diligence to comply with antibribery, anticorruption, and know your customer laws. The right to be forgotten was invoked to remove from Google searches 120 reports about company directors published by Dato Capital, a Spanish company which compiles such reports about private company directors, consisting entirely of information they are required by law to disclose; \"Fortune\" magazine examined the 64 reports relating to UK directorships, finding that in 27 (42%) the director was the only person named, in the remaining only the director and co-directors were named, and 23 (36%) involve directorships started since 2012.\n\nOther criticism revolves around the principle of accountability.\n\nThere were concerns that the proposed General Data Protection Regulation would result in Google and other Internet search engines not producing neutral search results, but rather producing biased and patchy results, and compromising the integrity of Internet-based information. To balance out this criticism, the proposed General Data Protection Regulation included an exception \"for the processing of personal data carried out solely for journalistic purposes or the purpose of artistic or literary expression in order to reconcile the right to the protection of personal data with the rules governing freedom of expression.\" Article 80 upheld freedom of speech, and while not lessening obligations on data providers and social media sites, nevertheless due to the wide meaning of \"journalistic purposes\" allows more autonomy and reduces the amount of information that is necessary to be removed. When Google agreed to implement the ruling, European Commission Vice-President Viviane Reding said, \"The Court also made clear that journalistic work must not be touched; it is to be protected.\" However, Google was criticized for taking down (under the Costeja precedent) a BBC News blog post about Stan O'Neal by economics editor Robert Peston (eventually, Peston reported that his blog post has remained findable in Google after all). Despite these criticisms and Google's action, the company's CEO, Larry Page worries that the ruling will be \"used by other governments that aren't as forward and progressive as Europe to do bad things\", though has since distanced himself from that position. For example, pianist Dejan Lazic cited the \"Right To Be Forgotten\" in trying to remove a negative review about his performance from \"The Washington Post\". He claimed that the critique was \"defamatory, mean-spirited, opionated, offensive and simply irrelevant for the arts\". and the St. Lawrence parish of the Roman Catholic church in Kutno, Poland asked Google to remove , without any allegations mentioned therein as of that date.\n\nIndex on Censorship claimed that the \"Costeja\" ruling \"allows individuals to complain to search engines about information they do not like with no legal oversight. This is akin to marching into a library and forcing it to pulp books. Although the ruling is intended for private individuals it opens the door to anyone who wants to whitewash their personal history… The Court's decision is a retrograde move that misunderstands the role and responsibility of search engines and the wider internet. It should send chills down the spine of everyone in the European Union who believes in the crucial importance of free expression and freedom of information.\"\n\nIn 2014, the Gerry Hutch page on the English Wikipedia was among the first Wikipedia pages to be removed by several search engines' query results in the European Union. \"The Daily Telegraph\" said, on 6 Aug 2014, that Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales \"described the EU's Right to be Forgotten as deeply immoral, as the organisation that operates the online encyclopedia warned the ruling will result in an internet riddled with memory holes\". Other commentators have disagreed with Wales, pointing to problems such as Google including links to revenge porn sites in its search results, and have accused Google of orchestrating a publicity campaign to escape the burdensome obligation to comply with the law. Julia Powles, a law and technology researcher at the University of Cambridge, made a rebuttal to Wales' and the Wikimedia Foundation concerns in an editorial published by \"Guardian\", opining that \"There is a public sphere of memory and truth, and there is a private one...Without the freedom to be private, we have precious little freedom at all.\"\n\nIn response to the criticism, the EU has released a factsheet to address what it considers myths about the right to be forgotten.\n\nOther criticisms involving the right to be forgotten revolves around the policies for data removal regarding minors. The U.S. has laws in place that protect the privacy of minors. The California Minor Eraser Law is a law that allows California residents under the age of 18 to request to have information removed that they posted on an online server. The law \"applies to websites, social media sites, mobile apps and other online services\" and follows \"Europe's recognition of the 'right to be forgotten'\". This law was put into effect on January 1, 2015 and remains in existence today. Online \"service\" operators that have services \"directed toward minors\" must update their privacy policies to include the option to remove data if requested by a minor that is posted on a service.\n\nIn the UK, the 2017 Conservative manifesto included a pledge to allow social media platform users to remove outdated information that was posted when they were under the age of 18. \"A Tory victory on the 8th of June will lead to those youthful indiscretions on Facebook and Twitter being open to erasure. But there are also plans to fine social media firms for not moving at the speed of political opportunism over extreme content.\" The United Kingdom has not yet fully adopted the ruling of the European Court of Justice regarding the right to be forgotten and argued to keep it from going into EU law. However, in the upcoming elections in the UK laws could be passed to allow minors to remove embarrassing posts or photos on social media that could come back to affect job applications or public image in later life.\n\nTheresa May, the Prime Minister of the UK, has been pushing to extend privacy rights for minors in allowing them to have a right to delete information. The intentions for this extension of privacy are based on the fact that social media sites store years of data that affect minors lives' much later after the information is posted. May gave her stance on privacy when she said, \"'The Internet has brought a wealth of opportunity but also significant new risks which have evolved faster than society's response to them'\". The Conservative Party, which is headed by May, has pushed for policies that aggressively removes illegal material from the internet and fines firms that do not take action in removing said material.\n\nIn 2015, Commission nationale de l'informatique et des libertés (CNIL), the data privacy watchdog of France trird to impose the right globally. CNIL asked Google to remove data from all versions available in any part of the world. Google and other entities argued that European data regulators should not be allowed to decide what Internet users around the world find when they use a search engine.\n\nSecurity researchers from CISPA, Saarland University and the University of Auckland proposed a framework, called Oblivion, to support the automation of the right to be forgotten in a scalable, provable and privacy-preserving manner. Oblivion is a program that helps to \"automate\" the process of attempting to verify someone's personal information that could be found in a Google search result.\" Google gets many take-down requests at a high volume, so Oblivion is able to help with this problem. Researchers and authors behind Oblivion say that \"it is essential to develop techniques that at least partly automate this process and are scalable to internet size.\" Oblivion helps the humans that operate the forms at Google ensure that ill-intending users cannot \"blacklist links to internet sources that do not affect them.\" For example, tests have proven that Oblivion handles requests at a rate of 278 per second. The software allows Google, the government, and the user to work together to get content removed quickly and for just cause. In order to ensure that the program works quickly, is secure for its users and is impervious to fake take-down requests, Oblivion uses a three-part system.\n\nIn the first part, Oblivion requires a user to submit identification about themselves – not limited to \"name, age, and nationality.\" Oblivion then enables a user to automatically find and tag his or her disseminated personal information using natural language processing and image recognition techniques and file a request in a privacy-preserving manner. Oblivion will scan the article for attributes that match information that has been submitted by the user. Second, Oblivion provides indexing systems with an automated and provable eligibility mechanism, asserting that the author of a request is indeed affected by an online resource. The author of a request is then issued an \"ownership token\" that confirms the articles they submitted for evaluation include sensitive personal information. The automated eligibility proof ensures censorship-resistance so that only legitimately affected individuals can request the removal of corresponding links from search results. In the third and last phase, this \"ownership token\" is submitted to Google, accompanied by the user's concerns as to what information should be deleted. Google's staff is then allowed to decide for themselves if they want to delete this information or not - but thanks to Oblivion, they know that the information in question is valid.\n\nResearchers with Oblivion, however, have noted that it comes with some limitations. The software is lacking a human element, therefore it cannot decide on its own \"whether or not a piece of information is public interest and should therefore not be removed from Google search results.\" Researchers have conducted comprehensive evaluations, showing that Oblivion is suitable for large-scale deployment once it is fine-tuned.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32796783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32796783", "title": "Robert Greene (philosopher)", "text": "Robert Greene (philosopher)\n\nRobert Greene (1678?–1730), was an English philosopher.\nGreene, the son of Robert Greene, a mercer of Tamworth, Staffordshire, by his wife Mary Pretty of Fazeley, was born about 1678. His father, who according to the son was a repository of all the Christian virtues, died while Greene was a boy, and it was through the generosity of his uncle, John Pretty, rector of Farley, Hampshire, that he was sent to Clare Hall, Cambridge. He graduated B.A. 1699, and M.A. 1703. He became a fellow and tutor of his college and took orders. \nIn 1711 he published 'A Demonstration of the Truth and Divinity of the Christian Religion,' and in the following year 'The Principles of Natural Philosophy, in which is shown the insufficiency of the present systems to give us any just account of that science.' The latter work was ridiculed and parodied in 'A Taste of Philosophical Fanaticism ... by a gentleman of the University of Gratz.' Greene, while taking an active part in college and parochial work, was convinced that the whole field of knowledge was his proper province, and devoted many years' leisure to the production of his next work, a large folio volume of 980 pages, entitled 'The Principles of the Philosophy of the Expansive and Contractive Forces, or an Enquiry into the Principles of the Modern Philosophy, that is, into the several chief Rational Sciences which are extant,' 1727. In the preface Greene, after being at some pains to prove himself a whig, declared his intention of proposing a philosophy, English, Cantabrigian, and Clarensian, which he ventured to call the 'Greenian,' because his name was 'not much worse in the letters which belonged to it than those of Galileo and Descartes.' The book is a monument of ill-digested and misapplied learning. \n\nIn 1727 Greene served as proctor at Cambridge University, and in the next year he proceeded D.D. He died at Birmingham 16 Aug. 1730, and was buried at All Saints, Cambridge, where he had for three years officiated. In his will he named eight executors, five being heads of Cambridge colleges, and directed that his body should be dissected and the skeleton hung up in the library of King's College; monuments to his memory were to be placed in the chapels of Clare and King's colleges, in St. Mary's Church, and at Tamworth, for each of which he supplied a long description of himself; finally, Clare Hall was to publish his posthumous works, and on condition of observing this and his other directions was to receive his estate, failing which it was to go to St. John's, Trinity, and Jesus colleges, and on refusal of each to Sidney Sussex. None of his wishes were complied with, and it was stated by a relative of Greene (Gent. Mag. 1783, ii. 657) that his effects remained with Sidney Sussex, but that college preserves no record of having received the benefactions.\n"}
{"id": "18074628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18074628", "title": "Sandra Mitchell", "text": "Sandra Mitchell\n\nSandra D. Mitchell (born 1951) is an American philosopher of science and historian of ideas. She holds the position of professor and chair of the department of History and Philosophy of Science at the University of Pittsburgh, the top rated school in the world for the subject according to the 2011 Philosophical Gourmet Report. Her research focuses on the philosophy of biology and the philosophy of social science, and connections between the two.\n\nSandra D. Mitchell worked at the Ohio State University (1985–1989) and University of California, San Diego (1989–1999), before joining the Department of History and Philosophy of Science in 2000. She has been a fellow at the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, at the University of Bielefeld (1991–1992), the Max Planck Institute for the Study of Societies in Cologne (2004–2005), the Institute for Advanced Study, Berlin (1993–1994), and the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science (2010).\n\nMitchell received a B.A. in philosophy from Pitzer College (1973), a M.Sc. in Logic, Philosophy and Scientific Method from the London School of Economics (1975), and a Ph.D. in History and Philosophy of Science from the University of Pittsburgh (1987).\n\nIn her more recent articles, she has argued that the search for a unified, reductionist Theory of Everything is futile. Instead, she suggests that the sciences focus on studying the complex correlations between elements and their emergent effects (self-organization) that, as she argues, a strictly reductionist approach is not able to adequately address.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "202690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202690", "title": "School of Names", "text": "School of Names\n\nThe Logicians or School of Names () was a school of Chinese philosophy that grew out of Mohism during the Warring States period in 479–221 BCE. It is also sometimes called the School of Forms and Names (). Deng Xi has been named its founder.\n\nThe philosophy of the Logicians is often considered to be akin to those of the sophists or of the dialecticians. Joseph Needham notes that their works have been lost, except for the partially preserved \"Gongsun Longzi\", and the paradoxes of Chapter 33 of the \"Zhuangzi\". Needham considers the disappearance of the greater part of \"Gongsun Longzi\" one of the worst losses in the ancient Chinese books, as what remains is said to reach the highest point of ancient Chinese philosophical writing.\nOne of the few surviving lines from the school, \"a one-foot stick, every day take away half of it, in a myriad ages it will not be exhausted,\" resembles Zeno's paradoxes. However, some of their other aphorisms seem contradictory or unclear when taken out of context, for example, \"Dogs are not hounds.\"\n\nThey were opposed by the Later Mohists for their paradoxes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57692663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57692663", "title": "Sisters of Mary of the Presentation", "text": "Sisters of Mary of the Presentation\n\nThe Sisters of Mary of the Presentation, is a Catholic religious institution founded in 1828 in Broons, France. They are of Vincentian spirituality. They use the post-nominal SMP. \n\nIn 1959 the congregation of Sisters was approved by the Holy See becoming a religious institute of pontifical right. Sisters of Mary of the Presentation has convents in France, Belgium, The United States, Canada, and Cameroon. The Sisters founded and manage health care facilities in France, the United States, and Cameroon.\n\nThe congregation was founded in Broons, France, in 1828 by Father Joachim Fleury, parish priest of Broons, Sr. Louise Lemarchand (religious name: Mother St. Louis), and her sister, Sr. Laurence Lemarchand.\n\nAt the urging of Fr. Fleury, the Lemarchand sisters opened a primary school for girls in their home on October 20, 1826.\nOutside of class hours, Laurence taught needlework and sewing, while Louise assisted the physicians of Broons, visiting the sick. The number of students applying for education at the school of Louise and Laurence Lemarchand soon outstripped the capacity of their residence. At the sisters’ request, Fr. Fleury secured and renovated a home for use as a school. Classes started in the new building in October 1827. In 1828, a second house nearby was secured for use as a home for destitute women and other charitable causes. \n\nOn August 25, 1828, the Lemarchand sisters took vows. Fr. Fleury composed the rule of the new community, and with just her and her sister as members, the Sisters of Mary of the Presentation was founded (then named “Filles de Sainte-Marie” (English: The Daughters of Saint Mary). On October 2, 1829 they opened an orphanage. As well as a primary education, Sr. Louise wanted to provide the orphans with a practical trade education. To this end, factory owner Mr. Bertier of Dinan taught Sr. Louise the trade of wool dyeing, which the Sisters in turn taught to the orphans. \n\nThe size of the congregation grew quickly. Sr. Louise requested from Fr. Fleury land on which to build a convent large enough to house the increasing number of Sisters, as well as expand the school and the orphanage. The gifted land was a field known as “Croix Rouge” (English: The Red Cross). The Motherhouse was completed on September 13, 1836. Much of the labor and cost of constructing the buildings was volunteered by the people of Broons. In 1837 they started a school which included education for deaf children. On March 30, 1839, by royal decree, the Sisters of Mary of the Presentation was legally recognized as a religious institute by the French government. At the turn of the century, the Sisters of Mary of the Presentation operated several schools and had an extensive home health ministry.\n\nStarting in 1886, a series of anti-Congregation laws in France prohibited Catholic education. The Sisters’ schools were closed by French authorities in Broons, Corseul, La Malhoure, Plumaudan, Morbihan, and Noyal. When the schools were closed, some Sisters left France for countries in which they would be able to teach. These Sisters formed convents in Guernsey, the Netherlands, Belgium, Canada, and the United States. On January 31, 1914, Prime Minister Raymond Poincare signed a decree of dissolution of Sisters of Mary of the Presentation. On June 8, the Sisters were expelled from their Motherhouse and property confiscated. Some of the Sisters expelled from the Motherhouse settled in the island nation of Guernsey, others blended into local communities to secretly continue teaching and providing health care, and a few Sisters were permitted to stay temporally at the Motherhouse in order to care for elderly Sisters. \n\nBefore the remaining Sisters could be evicted, World War I (1914-1918) broke out and spread across Europe. The Motherhouse was conscripted by the government for use as a military hospital, named “Complementary Hospital #42.” Because the government had seized the Sisters’ possessions the Motherhouse had no furnishings, so the Sisters appealed to the people of Broons. Days before the first wounded arrived the townsfolk of Broons, and other nearby communities, donated the furnishings necessary for the Sisters to care for the wounded. Many of the Sisters exiled to foreign lands returned to care for the wounded soldiers. The work of the Sisters was supported by supplies from the people of Broons, the Croix-Rouge française, (English: French Red Cross), Bien-Etre de Blesses (English: Well-Being of Wounded), the French Wounded Emergency Fund, the American Fund for the French Wounded, and their Sisters in the United States.\n\nOn September 11, 1914, the mayor arrived with a telegram which read, “One hundred twenty seriously wounded soldiers have left Rennes for Broons.” From 1914 to 1919 the Sisters in Broons, France treated 8,871 wounded, 803 tuberculosis patients, and 1004 traumatized soldiers. The Sisters in Saint-Brieuc, France treated over 1,311 sick and wounded. The Sisters in Dinan, France treated over 2,300 wounded from 1914 to 1916 (when the town was overrun by the German army). Seven Sisters in Reims, Belgium treated wounded in the besieged city. In September 1914 the hospital in Reims was evacuated due to heavy bombardment, Dr. Lardennois and the Sisters stayed behind to care for the wounded who could not be moved. The German army occupied the city but quickly retreated due to the loss at the First Battle of the Marne. The German army resumed the bombardment of Reims and over the next few days, much of the city was leveled. On October 8, Dr. Lardennois and the Sisters evacuated the remaining patients to Pargny.\n\nIn 1918, after the war had ended, sixteen of the Sisters serving in Broons were awarded the Medal of Honor of Epidemics by the French ministry. Many Sisters died while caring for victims of the war, one of which was posthumously awarded the Relief of Wounded Soldiers by the French Red Cross. Six Sisters serving in Dinan were awarded the Gold Badge of Honor by the French Defence Health Service. Dr. Lardennois was awarded the Croix de Guerre (English: Military Cross) and the Legion of Honour. One of the Sisters serving at Reims was posthumously awarded the Medal of French Gratitude.\n\nDuring the war the ownership of the Motherhouse had transferred to the French military, this enabled the Sisters to resume living at the Motherhouse despite still being under a decree of dissolution. On December 8, 1923, as a result of their service in the war, and with the support of Senator Léon Jenouvrier, the French government rescinded the decree of dissolution, recovering the legal standing of the Sisters of Mary of the Presentation in France. Some Sisters returned after the legal standing of the Motherhouse in Broons was reinstated, others made a home in their countries of exile. The Motherhouse in Broons remains the international headquarters of the Sisters of Mary of the Presentation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47744762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47744762", "title": "Sufism in Bangladesh", "text": "Sufism in Bangladesh\n\nSufism in Bangladesh is more or less similar to that in the whole Indian subcontinent. India, it is claimed, is one of the five great centers of Sufism, the other four being Persia (including central Asia), Baghdad, Syria, and North Africa. Sufi saints flourished in Hindustan (India) preaching the mystic teachings of Sufism that easily reached the common people, especially, the spiritual truth seekers in India. Sufism in Bangladesh is also called pirism, after the pirs or teachers in the Sufi tradition (also called Fakir).\n\nThe Sufism tremendously influenced local population and thus these Sufi masters were the single most important factor in South Asian conversions to Islam, particularly in what is now Bangladesh. Most Bangladeshi Muslims are influenced to some degree by Sufism. The conversion to Islam of the population of what was to become Bangladesh began in the thirteenth century and continued for hundreds of years. Muslim pirs who wandered about in villages and towns were responsible for many conversions. Academic Golam Dastagir describes some modern Bangladeshi Sufi practices as deviating from traditional Sufi teachings, and says that most Sufi orders in the country have no record of their history and spiritual lineage.\n\nA majority of Bangladeshi Muslims perceive Sufis as a source of spiritual wisdom and guidance and their Khanqahs and Dargahs as nerve centers of Muslim society These majority of Muslims in Bangladesh are Sunni, who mainly follow the Hanafi school of thought (madh'hab).\n\nSufis have been subject to religious violence in Bangladesh. The Daily Mail reported in January 2017 that since 2013 14 Sufi leaders had had their throats slit in religiously motivated attacks, either by Al-Qaeda or \"homegrown\" militants, part of a broader pattern of violence perpetrated by Islamists against Sufis, Shias, atheists, religious minorities, liberals and foreigners.\n\nThe Sufi principles and practices of Bangladesh are completely traced to the Quran and the Hadith. The mystical expressions of the Quranic verses of the Prophet are the direct sources of Sufism. The concepts of nafs (self), zikr (remembrance), ibadat (prayer), morakaba (meditation), miraj (ascension), tajalli (divine illumination), faqr (spiritual poverty), tawhid (Unity of God), fana (annihilation) and baqa (subsistence) are all the basic sources of Sufism, as practiced in Bangladesh.\n\nThe tradition of Islamic mysticism known as Sufism appeared very early in Islam and became essentially a popular movement emphasizing worship out of a love of Allah. rather than fear. Sufism stresses a direct, unstructured, personal devotion to God in place of the ritualistic, outward observance of the faith and \"a Sufi aims to attain spiritual union with God through love\" An important belief in the Sufi tradition is that the average believer may use spiritual guides in his pursuit of the truth. Throughout the centuries many gifted scholars and numerous poets have been inspired by Sufi ideas.\n\nMigrant Sufis introduced Islam to Bengal in the 12th century, during the Buddhist Pala Empire. Hinduism was also widespread in Bengal at the time, with some local rulers being explicitly Brahmanic despite being ruled by Buddhists. Bengal was also likely home to indigenous folk religions not bound by Buddhist, Brahmanic or Islamic orthodoxy; the 14th century account of Ibn Battuta describes the subjects of Fakhruddin Mubarak Shah in Sylhet as \"[n]oted for their devotion to and practice of magic and witchcraft\".\n\nThe 12th century Turkish-speaking migrants from Central Asia were often either led by an \"alp\" (also written \"alp-eren;\" a heroic warrior) or a Sufi teacher. Historian Richard Eaton describes these Sufi teachers as combining qualities of the \"alp\" and the pre-Islamic shaman, with the traditional Sufi hierarchy of master and disciple proving \"remarkably well suited for binding retainers to charismatic leaders\".\n\nThe earliest known Muslim inscription in Bengal records the construction of a khanqah by a fakir whose father was born in Maragheh, Iran. It is dated to 29 July 1221 and was found in Birbhum district (in what is now West Bengal), carved from the ruin of a Hindu temple.\n\nPersian Sufi histories depict early Sufi as ghazis, or wagers of war against non-Muslims. Hagiographies of 14th century Sufi sheikh Jalal al-Din Tabrizi, one of the earliest attested Sufis in Bengal, describe him as destroying temples and replacing them with Sufi resting houses, and converting \"infidels\" to Islam. Similarly, the 15th century Shah Jalal is described as fighting and defeating \"infidels\". In the 1930s, orientalist Paul Wittek adopted this theme in his Gaza thesis explaining the spread of Islam and the Ottoman Empire.\n\nMore recent historians, including Richard Eaton, have argued that these hagiographies are \"obviously ideological\", and that original Sufis were not primarily motivated by conversion or holy war, with no Bengal Sufi or sultan calling himself \"ghazi\".\n\nSimilarities between Sufi thought and practice and Hinduism encouraged an inter-mingling of ideas. The tantric yoga text Amṛtakuṇḍa (\"The Pool of Nectar\") was translated into Arabic and Persian in the 13th century and widely circulated among Sufis in Bengal and India more widely, including with preambles that situated the work in an Islamic context. The 16th century Sufi Abdul Quddus Gangohi made use of the Amṛtakuṇḍa in his teaching.\n\nSufis took up residence in the successive capitals of Bengal, Lakhnauti, Pandua and Gaur. Typically adherents of the Suhrawardi, Firdausi or Chishti orders, these \"urban Sufis\" often formed a mutual patronage with temporal leaders. Drawing on an existing concept in the Persian-speaking world, urban Sufis would \"predict\" which prince would govern, and for how long. Richard Eaton describes this as \"the implicit act of appointment\" behind the \"explicit act of 'prediction'\". In legend, the first three rulers of the Tughlaq dynasty received turbans from the grandson of Chisti saint Fariduddin Ganjshakar, with the length of each man's turban \"exactly correspond[ing]\" to the length of his reign.\n\nIn the 14th century, the Chisti order dominated Sufi involvement in South Asian politics because its major shrines were located in the sub-continent, whereas the other orders looked westward. Nizamuddin Auliya's khanqah in Badayun trained sheikhs who spread throughout South Asia, including his Bengal disciple Akhi Siraj Aainae Hind. Akhi Siraj Aainae Hind's successor, Alaul Haq Pandavi, formed an alliance with Ilyas Shah as he founded the Ilyas Shahi dynasty. Chisti influence was strong during the rule of the seven sultans of the first Ilyas Shahi dynasty, although not without clashes. The second sultan, Sikandar Shah, clashed with Alaul Haq Pandavi over the amount of money he was distributing to the poor, and he may have been wary of the Sufi gaining too much power with the public. He would eventually \"banish\" the Sufi to Sonargaon.\n\nWhen the Ilyas Shahi dynasty fell for the first time, Sufis saw Bengal as a distinctly Islamic polity defined by three centuries of Muslim rule, and a crucial part of Islam's global presence, with sheikh Nur Qutb Alam (son of Alaul Haq Pandavi) writing: The lamp of the Islamic religion and of true guidanceWhich had [formerly] brightened every corner with its light,Has been extinguished by the wind of unbelief blown by Raja Ganesh...When the abode of faith and Islam has fallen into such a fate,Why are you sitting happily on your throne?The Jaunpur sultan Ibrahim Shah was the intended target of the sheikh's letter, but it was internal dynamics that would restore Muslim rule to Bengal. The Hindu conquerer Raja Ganesha's son and successor Jalaluddin Muhammad Shah converted to Islam under Sufi influence. Jalaluddin Muhammad Shah and his son and successor Shamsuddin Ahmad Shah were disciples of Nur Qutb Alam, and the 12 sultans after them were disciples of other descendants of Alaul Haq Pandavi. Ironically given Nur Qutb Alam's letter asking him to restore Muslim rule to Bengal, Ibrahim Shah attempted to invade Bengal during the Muslim rule of Shamsuddin Ahmad Shah.\n\nReverence for the Bangla folk hero Satya Pir was identified over a hundred years ago in what is now Bangladesh. Ritual practices surrounding the figure represent a syncretic combination of Hindu and Sufi Muslim practices.\n\nIn the 19th Century, the Sufi teacher Gausul Azam Maizbhandari introduced the Qadiriyya order to Bangladesh, with his particular teachings coalescing into Tarika-e-Maizbhandari.\n\nIn the 20th Century, one of the most influential Sufi in Bangladesh was the Sufi saint Khwaja Yunus Ali, who developed a tripartite teaching method, \"by writing\", \"by lecture\" and \"by khanqah\". His followers numbered in the hundreds of thousands. A number of khanqahs are operated by his successors, including Bangladesh's largest.\n\nKhwaja's student Maulana Hashmatullah Faridpuri, the pir of Atroshi (in Faridpur), was a Sufi teacher until his death in 2001. Disciples advance in the Atroshi tariqa by bringing in more recruits. The focus of the \"pir\" of Atroshi in developing buildings and institutions, especially a 600-bed hospital and a mosque larger than the Taj Mahal, has influenced the behaviour of other Sufi \"pir\" in Bangladesh.\n\nIslamic rule of Bengal began with Sufi blessings, when Ghiyasuddin Iwaj Shah took power in 1208 claiming to have had the blessing of two dervishes. The Ilyas Shahi dynasty was endorsed by Alaul Haq Pandavi, and the dynasty always had a relationship of mutual patronage with Sufis of the Chishti Order.\n\nIn modern times, Sufi \"pir\" have sometimes engaged in Bangladeshi politics. Khwaja Enayetpuri was an \"active supporter\" of the Muslim League, although he never associated his tariqa with politics. The pir Hafizi Huzur unsuccessfully contested the Bangladeshi presidential election in 1986. The pir of Atroshi supported the Pakistani side in the Bangladesh Liberation War and in 1989 founded a political party, the Zaker Party, that was opposed to Indian influence but contested the 1991 election without success.\n\nAcademic Samuel Landell Mills identifies the increased use of physical objects in Bangladeshi Sufism over other forms of Sufism as an attempt to extend the \"pir\"'s spiritual authority to a worldly one. \"Pir\" are associated with the places that they teach in, and the growth in material and stature of these places further strengthens their spiritual authority.\n\nThe Qadiri, Sureshwaria, Maizbhandaria, Naqshbandi, Chishti, Mujaddid, Ahmadi, Mohammadi, Soharwardi and Rifa'i orders were among the most widespread Sufi orders in Bangladesh in the late 1980s.\n\nProminent Sufi personalities in Bangladesh includes Abdul Gafur Hali, Syed Ahmad Ali Urfi Jan Sharif Shah Sureshwari, Ahmed Ullah Maizbhanderi, Salekur Rahman Rahe Bhanderi, Sayed Delaor Husaein, Sayed Ziaul Haq, Syed Rashid Ahmed Jaunpuri. Sufism in Bangladesh is owed to the great saint in Bangladesh, Khwaja Enayetpuri, whose family lineage traced back to Baghdad but later on migrated to Delhi. The regular Sufi practice in many of the Khaneghahs in Bangladesh is zikr, assisted with ghazals. The participants of zikr do not perform any other sama (Suif music), qawwali, or dance. Sufism in Bangladesh is a silent and spontaneous movement. The Sufis and the Sheikhs in India and Bangladesh are believed to have shown many miracles and divine activities.\n\nThe regular Sufi practice in many of the Khanqahs in Bangladesh is zikr, assisted with Na`at. The participants of zikr do not perform any other sama (Suif music), qawwali, or dance. The only music performed with the verbal zikr is Na`at, written and sung with rhythm and melody but without any musical instrument, by the poets (performers of zikr). The anniversary of the birth and death of a Sufi pir is observed annually. Popular belief holds that this anniversary is an especially propitious time for seeking the intercession of the pir. Large numbers of the faithful attend anniversary ceremonies, which are festive occasions enjoyed by the followers of the pir as well as orthodox Muslims. Many, if not most, visit the graveside shrines (mazar) of pirs, some at least occasionally, many often, and an untold number rather regularly, throughout their lives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57023202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57023202", "title": "Table manners in North America", "text": "Table manners in North America\n\nTable manners are the cultural customs and rules of etiquette used while dining. As in other areas of North American etiquette, the rules governing appropriate table manners have changed over time and may differ depending on the setting (e.g. dining at home, at a restaurant, or with business colleagues).\n\nTable manners have an ancient and complex history, as each society has gradually evolved its system. Today, many of the behaviors that take place at the dinner table are deeply rooted in history.\n\nIn Europe, Italy more or less led the cultural revolution starting with the renaissance. Italian poet Giovanni Della Casa advised in \"Galateo\", his 1558 book on manners: \"One should not comb his hair nor wash his hands in public... the exception to this is the washing of the hands when done before sitting down to dinner, for then it should be done in full sight of others, even if you do not need to wash them at all, so that whoever dips into the same bowl as you will be certain of your cleanliness.\"\n\nSome other examples are:\n\nProper manners were a concern even of leaders in the society of eighteenth-century America –– Benjamin Franklin's Poor Richard's Almanac, for instance, included comments on proper behavior. During the nineteenth century, hundreds of books on etiquette were published in the United States.\n\nEach household may have a unique set of rules at the table, but despite cultural differences, there are some essential table manners most families share, including rules against picking one's teeth at the table and chewing with one's mouth open. Due to changing lifestyles, table manners are more casual than they were in the 1950s. For example, some commentators contend that the common prohibition against placing elbows on the table no longer applies. Today, many families eat fast food without silverware and eat meals in front of the television or in the car rather than following past norms of gathering the family at the dining table for a meal. Critics claim that these changes have led to fewer opportunities to learn table manners in the home.\n\nAdditionally, advancement of technology in recent years raises issues regarding smartphone use at the dining table. Opinions vary regarding whether the use of smartphones at the dining table is acceptable.\n\nThe convention of avoiding putting one's elbows on the table while eating arose from a time when tables were sufficiently rustic and unstable that leaning on them could cause loose planks to disrupt the meal.ht However, as time has changed, it has become more acceptable to put one's elbows on the table, but only between courses, not while eating.\n\nThe main reason to be quiet while eating is for safety. According to the National Safety Council, suffocation, especially on foods, was ranked fourth on a list of major causes of death in American homes. There was a case in an American middle school that involved one of the students choking while eating in the cafeteria.\n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>In most places, it is unacceptable for someone to make disapproving or disrespectful sounds when presented with food. Likewise, blowing one's nose at the table is unacceptable. In addition, slurping food is considered offensive and impolite and inconsiderate to others. For example it is illegal to slurp soup at a public eating place in New Jersey.\n\nNot every good table manner in North America is acceptable in every part of the world. Certain manners are considered rude in other cultures; for example, leaving tips. It is normal for an American to leave a tip for their waiter. However, it is offensive to tip waiters in Japan.\n\nAs business dealings can take place over a meal, table manners may be put to good use while dining with clientele, co-workers, or subordinates - building rapport with a client, celebrating the accomplishments of a team, or simply hosting a discussion in a non-office setting all call for proper etiquette if dining is involved. It is deemed an essential enough behavioral skill that has suffered from a decline in naturally occurring generational inheritance to the effect that some schools have opened programs and classes centered around dining etiquette to educate students in the practice. Poor table manners can affect the opinion of those involved, as well as the outcome of the meeting.\n\nMany appropriate mannerisms from formal dining situations can be applied in a business setting, though variations exist depending on who is the host and who is the guest, and the relation the one has with the other. Speaking while still chewing or mid-bite may be acceptable in an informal lunch setting with often-seen coworkers, but in a high-stakes meeting with a potential customer, it will likely come off as rude. Napkins are intended to be kept in the lap. The exception is when leaving the table temporarily - placed on the chair signals the staff that the diner's meal is unfinished, placed on the table near the plate shows the patron has completed their meal.\n\nUnless the host offers to pay the inevitable bill, it should be assumed that each diner is responsible for their own bill, and the staff (and table) should be made aware of this at the appropriate time. The former being the case typically does not mean that the most expensive item on the menu should be sought out.\n\nThe dress code for a business related dining event can vary, usually around when the event takes place. The lunch period will likely find participants wearing what they wore to work, though special events may require a higher level of dress. It is important to understand and attempt to match the formality of the event - this type of table manners begin prior to sitting down at the table.\n\nThe level of formality can vary depending on the formality of the restaurant.\n\nProper table manners ought to begin as soon as one arrives at a table. The very first step after sitting down is place the napkin in one's lap. With the napkin placed on the lap, it protects clothing from spills or food that may fall into the diner's lap.\n\nIt is important to be able to navigate the table setting, not only knowing which utensils to use, but which items are meant for whose use. A general rule of thumb for selecting the proper spoon or fork when provided with multiple is to start on the outside and work your way in. For example, if you are starting with a salad course and you have two forks to choose from, the fork farthest from the plate should be used, leaving the closer one for the main course. Similarly, if you start with soup, select the spoon that is farthest from the plate.\n\nMany restaurants set the table with a bread plate and water glass at each seat before patrons arrive. The bread plate goes to the left of the plate, and the beverage to the right. To avoid drinking from the wrong glass or taking a bite of your neighbor's bread, use the following trick if you forget which is yours:Touch both your index fingers to your thumbs. On your left, you will see a lowercase \"b\", which stands for the bread plate. On your right is a lowercase \"d\" for Drinks. Dining in North America is widely viewed as a social occasion, rather than simply an opportunity to eat. As such, it is important to show the people dining with you that you respect them and their time enough to put your cell phone away. According to a study done by the Pew Research Center, 38% percent of people think it is acceptable to use cell phones in restaurants, and that number gets even smaller depending on the occasion. 12% of people think it is OK to use cell phones at family dinners, and only 5% think it is appropriate during meetings.\n\nWhen it comes to paying the bill in American restaurants, adding a tip is a common custom that is often expected by the waiter. According to a study by CreditCards.com, 4 out of 5 Americans always leave a tip when dining out, and the average tip is 16%-20% of the total bill.\n"}
{"id": "7400363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7400363", "title": "The Constitution of Liberty", "text": "The Constitution of Liberty\n\nThe Constitution of Liberty is a book by Austrian economist and Nobel Prize recipient Friedrich A. Hayek. The book was first published in 1960 by the University of Chicago Press and it is an interpretation of civilization as being made possible by the fundamental principles of liberty, which the author presents as prerequisites for wealth and growth, rather than the other way around.\n\n\"The Constitution of Liberty\" has notably been held up at a British Conservative Party policy meeting and banged on the table by Margaret Thatcher, who reportedly interrupted a presentation to indicate, in reference to the book, that \"This is what we believe\".\n\n\"The Constitution of Liberty\" was placed 9th on the list of the 100 best non-fiction books of the twentieth century compiled by the biweekly conservative magazine \"National Review\".\n\nA postscript is included, entitled \"Why I Am Not A Conservative.\"\n\n\nPart I – The Value of Freedom\n1. Liberty and Liberties\n2. The Creative Powers of a Free Civilization\n3. The Common Sense of Progress\n4. Freedom, Reason, and Tradition\n5. Responsibility and Freedom\n6. Equality, Value, and Merit\n7. Majority Rule\n8. Employment and Independence\n\nPart II – Freedom and the Law\n9. Coercion and the State\n10. Law, Commands, and Order\n11. The Origins of the Rule of Law\n12. The American Contribution: Constitutionalism\n13. Liberalism and Administration: The Rechtsstaat\n14. The Safeguards of Individual Liberty\n15. Economic Policy and the Rule of Law\n16. The Decline of the Law\n\nPart III – Freedom in the Welfare State\n17. The Decline of Socialism and the Rise of the Welfare State\n18. Labor Unions and Employment\n19. Social Security\n20. Taxation and Redistribution\n21. The Monetary Framework\n22. Housing and Town Planning\n23. Agriculture and Natural Resources\n24. Education and Research\n\nPostscript: Why I am Not a Conservative\n"}
{"id": "171377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171377", "title": "The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences", "text": "The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences\n\n\"The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences\" is the title of an article published in 1960 by the physicist Eugene Wigner. In the paper, Wigner observed that the mathematical structure of a physical theory often points the way to further advances in that theory and even to empirical predictions.\n\nWigner begins his paper with the belief, common among those familiar with mathematics, that mathematical concepts have applicability far beyond the context in which they were originally developed. Based on his experience, he says \"it is important to point out that the mathematical formulation of the physicist's often crude experience leads in an uncanny number of cases to an amazingly accurate description of a large class of phenomena\". He then invokes the fundamental law of gravitation as an example. Originally used to model freely falling bodies on the surface of the earth, this law was extended on the basis of what Wigner terms \"very scanty observations\" to describe the motion of the planets, where it \"has proved accurate beyond all reasonable expectations\".\n\nAnother oft-cited example is Maxwell's equations, derived to model the elementary electrical and magnetic phenomena known as of the mid 19th century. These equations also describe radio waves, discovered by David Edward Hughes in 1879, around the time of James Clerk Maxwell's death. Wigner sums up his argument by saying that \"the enormous usefulness of mathematics in the natural sciences is something bordering on the mysterious and that there is no rational explanation for it\". He concludes his paper with the same question with which he began:\n\nThe miracle of the appropriateness of the language of mathematics for the formulation of the laws of physics is a wonderful gift which we neither understand nor deserve. We should be grateful for it and hope that it will remain valid in future research and that it will extend, for better or for worse, to our pleasure, even though perhaps also to our bafflement, to wide branches of learning.\n\nWigner's work provided a fresh insight into both physics and the philosophy of mathematics, and has been fairly often cited in the academic literature on the philosophy of physics and of mathematics. Wigner speculated on the relationship between the philosophy of science and the foundations of mathematics as follows:\n\nIt is difficult to avoid the impression that a miracle confronts us here, quite comparable in its striking nature to the miracle that the human mind can string a thousand arguments together without getting itself into contradictions, or to the two miracles of laws of nature and of the human mind's capacity to divine them.\n\nLater, Hilary Putnam (1975) explained these \"two miracles\" as being necessary consequences of a realist (but not Platonist) view of the philosophy of mathematics. However, in a passage discussing cognitive bias Wigner cautiously labeled as \"not reliable\", he went further:\n\nThe writer is convinced that it is useful, in epistemological discussions, to abandon the idealization that the level of human intelligence has a singular position on an absolute scale. In some cases it may even be useful to consider the attainment which is possible at the level of the intelligence of some other species.\n\nWhether humans checking the results of humans can be considered an objective basis for observation of the known (to humans) universe is an interesting question, one followed up in both cosmology and the philosophy of mathematics.\n\nWigner also laid out the challenge of a cognitive approach to integrating the sciences:\n\nA much more difficult and confusing situation would arise if we could, some day, establish a theory of the phenomena of consciousness, or of biology, which would be as coherent and convincing as our present theories of the inanimate world.\n\nHe further proposed that arguments could be found that might\n\nput a heavy strain on our faith in our theories and on our belief in the reality of the concepts which we form. It would give us a deep sense of frustration in our search for what I called 'the ultimate truth'. The reason that such a situation is conceivable is that, fundamentally, we do not know why our theories work so well. Hence, their accuracy may not prove their truth and consistency. Indeed, it is this writer's belief that something rather akin to the situation which was described above exists if the present laws of heredity and of physics are confronted.\n\nPeter Woit, a theoretical physicist, believes that this conflict exists in string theory, where very abstract models may be impossible to test in any foreseeable experiment. If this is the case, the \"string\" must be thought of either as real but untestable, or simply as an illusion or artifact of either mathematics or cognition.\n\nWigner's original paper has provoked and inspired many responses across a wide range of disciplines. These include Richard Hamming in computer science, Arthur Lesk in molecular biology, Peter Norvig in data mining, Max Tegmark in physics, Ivor Grattan-Guinness in mathematics and Vela Velupillai in economics.\n\nRichard Hamming, an applied mathematician and a founder of computer science, reflected on and extended Wigner's \"Unreasonable Effectiveness\" in 1980, mulling over four \"partial explanations\" for it. Hamming concluded that the four explanations he gave were unsatisfactory. They were:\n\n1. \"Humans see what they look for\". The belief that science is experimentally grounded is only partially true. Rather, our intellectual apparatus is such that much of what we see comes from the glasses we put on. Eddington went so far as to claim that a sufficiently wise mind could deduce all of physics, illustrating his point with the following joke: \"Some men went fishing in the sea with a net, and upon examining what they caught they concluded that there was a minimum size to the fish in the sea.\"\n\nHamming gives four examples of nontrivial physical phenomena he believes arose from the mathematical tools employed and not from the intrinsic properties of physical reality.\n\n\n2. \"Humans create and select the mathematics that fit a situation\". The mathematics at hand does not always work. For example, when mere scalars proved awkward for understanding forces, first vectors, then tensors, were invented.\n\n3. \"Mathematics addresses only a part of human experience\". Much of human experience does not fall under science or mathematics but under the philosophy of value, including ethics, aesthetics, and political philosophy. To assert that the world can be explained via mathematics amounts to an act of faith.\n\n4. \"Evolution has primed humans to think mathematically\". The earliest lifeforms must have contained the seeds of the human ability to create and follow long chains of close reasoning.\n\nA different response, advocated by physicist Max Tegmark, is that physics is so successfully described by mathematics because the physical world \"is\" completely mathematical, isomorphic to a mathematical structure, and that we are simply uncovering this bit by bit. The same interpretation had been advanced some years previously by Peter Atkins. In this interpretation, the various approximations that constitute our current physics theories are successful because simple mathematical structures can provide good approximations of certain aspects of more complex mathematical structures. In other words, our successful theories are not mathematics approximating physics, but mathematics approximating mathematics.\n\nIvor Grattan-Guinness finds the effectiveness in question eminently reasonable and explicable in terms of concepts such as analogy, generalisation and metaphor.\n\n"}
{"id": "302966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302966", "title": "Thomas Elyot", "text": "Thomas Elyot\n\nSir Thomas Elyot (c. 1490 – 26 March 1546) was an English diplomat and scholar.\n\nThomas was the child of Sir Richard Elyot's first marriage with Alice De la Mare, but neither the date nor place of his birth is accurately known. Anthony Wood claimed him as an alumnus of St Mary Hall, Oxford, while C. H. Cooper in the \"Athenae Cantabrigienses\" put in a claim for Jesus College, Cambridge. Elyot himself says in the preface to his \"Dictionary\" that he was educated under the paternal roof, and was from the age of twelve his own tutor. He supplies, in the introduction to his \"Castell of Helth\", a list of the authors he had read in philosophy and medicine, adding that a \"worshipful physician\" (Thomas Linacre) read to him from Galen and some other authors.\n\nIn 1511 he accompanied his father on the western circuit as clerk to the assize, and he held this position until 1528. In addition to his father's lands in Wiltshire and Oxfordshire he inherited in 1523 the Cambridge estates of his cousin, Thomas Fynderne. His title was disputed, but Cardinal Wolsey decided in his favour, and also made him clerk of the Privy Council. Elyot, in a letter addressed to Thomas Cromwell, says that he never received the emoluments of this office, while the empty honour of knighthood conferred on him when he was displaced in 1530 merely put him to further expense. In that year he sat on the commission appointed to inquire into the Cambridgeshire estates of his former patron, Wolsey. He was appointed High Sheriff of Oxfordshire and Berkshire in 1527.\n\nIn 1531 he received instructions to proceed to the court of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, to try to persuade him to take a more favourable view of Henry's proposed divorce from Catherine of Aragon, the emperor's aunt. With this was combined another commission, on which one of the king's agents, Stephen Vaughan, was already engaged. He was, if possible, to apprehend William Tyndale. Elyot was probably suspected, like Vaughan, of lukewarmness in carrying out the king's wishes, but was nevertheless blamed by Protestant writers. As ambassador Elyot had been involved in ruinous expense, and on his return he wrote unsuccessfully to Cromwell begging to be excused, on the grounds of his poverty, from serving as High Sheriff of Cambridgeshire and Huntingdonshire for 1532.\n\nHe was one of the commissioners in the inquiry instituted by Cromwell prior to the suppression of the monasteries but he did not obtain any share of the spoils. There is little doubt that his known friendship for More militated against his chances of success, for in a letter addressed to Cromwell he admitted his friendship for More, but protested that he rated higher his duty to the king. William Roper, in his \"Life of More\", says that Elyot was on a second embassy to Charles V in the winter of 1535-1536 and received the news of More's execution while at Naples. He had been kept in the dark by his own government, but heard the news from the emperor, or so Roper says, writing years later, but R. W. Chambers writes that Roper had confused the timing of Elyot's ambassadorship, and of the emperor's remarks—about More's resignation, not his execution. The story of an earlier embassy to Rome (1532), mentioned by Burnet, rests on a late endorsement of instructions dated from that year, which cannot be regarded as authoritative.\n\nFrom 1539 to 1542 he represented the borough of Cambridge in parliament. He had purchased from Cromwell the manor of Carleton in Cambridgeshire, where he died.\n\nHe married Margaret à Barrow, described as a student in the \"school\" of Sir Thomas More. They had three children, named John (1516), Thomas (1529), and Richard (1537).\n\nElyot received little reward for his services to the state, but his scholarship and his books were held in high esteem by his contemporaries.\n\nElyot was a supporter of the humanists' ideas concerning the education of women; writing in support of learned women, he published the \"Defence of Good Women\". In this writing he supported Thomas More and other humanist authors' ideals of educated wives who would be able to provide intellectual companionship for their husbands and educated moral training for their children.\n\nIn 1531 he produced \"The Boke named the Governour\", dedicated to King Henry VIII which was printed by Thomas Berthelet (1531, 1534, 1536, 1544, etc.). It is a treatise on moral philosophy, intended to direct the education of those destined to fill high positions, and to inculcate those moral principles which alone could fit them for the performance of their duties. The subject was a favourite one in the 16th century, and the book, which contained many citations from classical authors, was very popular. Elyot expressly acknowledges his obligations to Erasmus's \"Institutio Principis Christiani\" but he makes no reference to the \"De regno et regis institutione\" of Francesco Patrizzi (d. 1494), bishop of Gaeta, on which his work was undoubtedly modelled.\n\nAs a prose writer, Elyot enriched the English language with many new words. In 1536 he published \"The Castell of Helth\", a popular treatise on medicine, intended to place a scientific knowledge of the art within the reach of those unacquainted with Greek. This work, though scoffed at by the faculty, was appreciated by the general public, and speedily went through seventeen editions. His Latin \"Dictionary\", the earliest comprehensive dictionary of the language, was completed in 1538. The copy of the first edition in the British Museum contains an autograph letter from Elyot to Cromwell, to whom it originally belonged. It was edited and enlarged in 1548 by Thomas Cooper, Bishop of Winchester, who called it \"Bibliotheca Eliotae\", and it formed the basis in 1565 of Cooper's \"Thesaurus linguae Romanae et Britannicae\".\n\nHis \"Image of Governance, compiled of the Actes and Sentences notable of the most noble Emperor Alexander Severus\" (1540) professed to be a translation from a Greek manuscript of the emperor's secretary Encolpius (or Eucolpius, as Elyot calls him), which had been lent him by a gentleman of Naples, called Pudericus, who asked to have it back before the translation was complete. In these circumstances Elyot, as he asserts in his preface, supplied the other maxims from different sources.\n\nHe was violently attacked by Humphrey Hody and later by William Wotton for putting forward a pseudo-translation but Henry Herbert Stephen Croft (1842–1923) later discovered that there was a Neapolitan gentleman at that time bearing the name of Poderico, or, Latinized, Pudericus, with whom Elyot may well have been acquainted. Roger Ascham mentions his \"De rebus memorabilibus Angliae\" and William Webbe quotes a few lines of a lost translation of the \"Ars poetica\" of Horace.\n\nHe also wrote:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11906995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11906995", "title": "Thought of Thomas Aquinas", "text": "Thought of Thomas Aquinas\n\nThis article contains a selection of thoughts of Thomas Aquinas on various topics. It is not intended as a complete account of Aquinas's thought. Within Aquinas' thought is included the philosophical school of Thomism.\n\nAquinas defines distributive justice as follows:\n\n[I]n distributive justice something is given to a private individual, in so far as what belongs to the whole is due to the part, and in a quantity that is proportionate to the importance of the position of that part in respect of the whole. Consequently in distributive justice a person receives all the more of the common goods, according as he holds a more prominent position in the community. This prominence in an aristocratic community is gauged according to virtue, in an oligarchy according to wealth, in a democracy according to liberty, and in various ways according to various forms of community. Hence in distributive justice the mean is observed, not according to equality between thing and thing, but according to proportion between things and persons: in such a way that even as one person surpasses another, so that which is given to one person surpasses that which is allotted to another.\nAquinas asserts that Christians have a duty to distribute with provision to the poorest of society. (See: Gilson, Etienne, \"The Christian Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas\", University of Notre Dame Press, 1994)\n\nThe following is a summary of Summa Contra Gentiles, Book 3, Chapter 146, which was written by Aquinas prior to writing the Summa Theologica. St. Thomas was a vocal supporter of the death penalty. This was based on the theory (found in natural moral law), that the state has not only the right, but the duty to protect its citizens from enemies, both from within, and without.\n\nFor those who have been appropriately appointed, there is no sin in administering punishment. For those who refuse to obey God's laws, it is correct for society to rebuke them with civil and criminal sanctions. No one sins working for justice and within the law. Actions that are necessary to preserve the good of society are not inherently evil. The common good of the whole society is greater and better than the good of any particular person. \"The life of certain pestiferous men is an impediment to the common good which is the concord of human society. Therefore, certain men must be removed by death from the society of men.\" This is likened to the physician who must amputate a diseased limb, or a cancer, for the good of the whole person. He based this on I Corinthians 5, 6: \"You know that a little leaven corrupts the whole lump of dough?\" and I Corinthians 5, 13: \"Put away the evil one from among yourselves\"; Romans 13,4: \"[it is said of earthly power that] he bears not the sword in vain: for he is God's minister, an avenger to execute wrath upon him that does evil\"; I Peter 2, 13-14: \"Be subjected therefore to every human creature for God's sake: whether to be on the king as excelling, or to governors as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of good.\" He believed these passages superseded the text of Exodus 20,13: \"Thou shall not kill.\" This is mentioned again in Matthew 5,21. Also, it is argued that Matthew 13, 30: \"Suffer both the weeds and the wheat to grow until the harvest.\" The harvest was interpreted as meaning the end of the world. This is explained by Matthew 13,38-40.\n\nAquinas acknowledged these passages could also be interpreted as meaning there should be no use of the death penalty if there was a chance of injuring the innocent. The prohibition \"Thou shall not kill\", was superseded by Exodus 22,18: \"Wrongdoers you shall not suffer to live.\" The argument that evildoers should be allowed to live in the hope that they might be redeemed was rejected by Aquinas as frivolous. If they would not repent in the face of death, it was unreasonable to assume they would ever repent. \"How many people are we to allow to be murdered while waiting for the repentance of the wrongdoer?\", he asked, rhetorically. Using the death penalty for revenge, or retribution is a violation of natural moral law.\n\nMany believe the correct interpretation of the commandment to be \"Thou shalt not murder.\" This interpretation allows for Aquinas' belief that the death penalty is an acceptable practice as delivered by those in authority over such things, such as government, which is divinely appointed as to God's will.\n\nUnder Pope John Paul II, the Catholic Church came, according to one of two interpretations of \"Evangelium Vitae\", to advocate incarceration in lieu of the death penalty.\n\nAquinas advocated the death penalty for obstinate heretics, writing\nWith regard to heretics two points must be observed: one, on their own side; the other, on the side of the Church. On their own side there is the sin, whereby they deserve not only to be separated from the Church by excommunication, but also to be severed from the world by death. For it is a much graver matter to corrupt the faith which quickens the soul, than to forge money, which supports temporal life. Wherefore if forgers of money and other evil-doers are forthwith condemned to death by the secular authority, much more reason is there for heretics, as soon as they are convicted of heresy, to be not only excommunicated but even put to death.On the part of the Church, however, there is mercy which looks to the conversion of the wanderer, wherefore she condemns not at once, but \"after the first and second admonition,\" as the Apostle directs: after that, if he is yet stubborn, the Church no longer hoping for his conversion, looks to the salvation of others, by excommunicating him and separating him from the Church, and furthermore delivers him to the secular tribunal to be exterminated thereby from the world by death. For Jerome commenting on Galatians 5:9, \"A little leaven,\" says: \"Cut off the decayed flesh, expel the mangy sheep from the fold, lest the whole house, the whole paste, the whole body, the whole flock, burn, perish, rot, die. Arius was but one spark in Alexandria, but as that spark was not at once put out, the whole earth was laid waste by its flame.\" (ST II:II 11:3 \"corpus\")\n\nThis position of Aquinas was congruous with the political and religious teaching of the day. The penalty of death for obdurate heretics had been the standard for generations prior to the time of Aquinas. It had been formalized in Canon Law during the Lateran Councils of 1179 and 1215. It was also the standard part of most criminal and civil laws prior to the time of Aquinas. Cathars were executed in Oxford in 1166. Another was burned at the stake in London in 1210. Of course, these, and many others pre-dated Aquinas. Since it was the Church's responsibility to attend to the eternal salvation of souls, heresy could not be tolerated. Heretics were given two chances to recant their views. This is a position which, by modern standards would be considered exceptionally harsh, and has changed and softened since the 13th century. The Church was inexorably intermixed with the secular political structure. This was before the modern concept of separation of church and state had developed. It was also a product of Scholasticism which did not seek to find an equivocal position, but rather to reach a decisive univocal conclusion on matters of religion and philosophy.\n\nAs can be seen by reading the article of Michael Novak, Aquinas' view in this matter is one of the more difficult parts of dealing with Thomism Needless to say, the attitudes of Aquinas were prevalent in his time. This view must be taken in context with the attitude shown by Aquinas in eschewing the forced baptism of the children of heretics, which was recommended by, among others, John Duns Scotus. The heretics Aquinas was referring to were those baptized Catholics who held positions of authority within the Church, and nonetheless persisted in teaching heretical views. It remains one of those passages which must be taken in context of the total message of Thomism. The growth of various heretical positions, leading to the Reformation, made execution of heretics impractical and counterproductive. Excommunication remained the penalty for such Church leaders who taught heresy. Aquinas' view is steeped in the traditions of Roman Law. A review of the legal history prior to the time of Aquinas reveals the nature of recommending execution of heretics. The issue came to a head with the Manichean (Cathari) heresy. Justinian's code confirmed that Manicheanism was a capital crime. It was concluded that other heretics were to be deemed no better. The opinion prevailed in legal circles that human law and divine command demanded the death of the obdurate heretic. It was routinely enforced by both Church and State. In severe cases of religious pestilence, there was a need for a holy war. These prevailing feelings were legislated by the Church in the Lateran Councils of 1179 and 1215.\n\nThe impenitent heretic when convicted by the ecclesiastical court for execution. Often, there was a plea for the life of the heretic, so as to avoid the appearance of \"irregularity\" and blood guilt. Frederick II, (1194–1250) incorporated the execution of heretics into his civil and criminal code of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\n\nFirstly, economics in the Middle Ages worked very differently from how they operate in the modern age. The Fifth Lateran Council defined usury as \"from its use, a thing which produces nothing is applied to the acquiring of gain and profit without any work, any expense or any risk\", and that the modern idea of what the usury is cannot be applied to Thomasian thought.\n\nSt. Thomas asserted that usury was a violation of natural moral law. All things are created for their natural end (Aristotle). Money is not an end but a means of buying goods and services. Putting money out for the generation of more money is an evil unto itself. The formal value of money is the face value. Yet usury allows this face value to fluctuate, and hence the value of money can be diminished, thereby robbing the person who has purchased the money for use. Money stands alone as a non-vendible substance which is degraded from its natural end by selling.\n\nAnother argument used by Aquinas was that of the Roman distinction between consumable goods and non-consumable goods. Food and clothes are consumable in that once they are used, they are gone. A piece of land is non-consumable since it can produce crops for years, yet never lose its value. Money as defined by Aquinas is a consumable. To put it out for profit betrays its purpose in natural law. This is the view that prevailed for the next three centuries following St. Thomas' death.\n\nYet it was the one Realistic Scholastic interpretation of natural law that was completely disconnected from the economic reality of the day. The time of Aquinas was one where land feudalism was ceding prominence to money capitalism. Over the next several centuries it became clear that capitalism would provide a greater amount of goods and services than any other system.\n\nEven in the time of Aquinas (and before), kings and popes engaged in usury. Some of the effects of Protestantism were a clarification of the views and acceptance of the practice of usury. Profit from lending became an acceptable goal. The Council of Trent (1545–1563) adopted Aquinas' view of usury, calling it a sin of equal gravity to that of homicide. This included putting money out for any return, no matter how minimal. It can be argued that this rigid stance may have encouraged the Protestant movement in larger money and trading centers.\n\nOur views concerning capitalism, unfair labor practice, living wage, price gouging, monopolies, fair trade practices, and predatory pricing, inter alia, are remnants of the inculcation of Aquinas' interpretation of natural moral law. (See Colish p. 333–334).\n\nThe issue was never as clear as the stance Aquinas took would indicate. From Pope Gregory IX (written about 1241, when Aquinas was 16 years old): \"He who loans a sum of money to one sailing or going to market, since he has assumed upon himself a risk, is not to be considered a usurer who will receive something beyond his lot. He also who gives ten solidi (a monetary unit), so that at another time just as many measures of grain, wine and oil may be paid back to him, and although these are worth more at the present time, it is probably doubtful whether at the time of payment, they will be worth more or less, for this reason, should not be considered a usurer. By reason of this doubt he is also excused, who sells clothing, grain, wine, oil, or other wares so that as a set time he receives for them more than they are worth at that time, if however, he had not intended so to sell them at the time of the contract.\" (See Denzinger, p. 178). In other words, if the lender of the money \"assumed the risk\" (\"assumpsit\" in Latin), along with the borrower, it was not usury.\n\nA century earlier, in the Second Lateran Council, (Second Council of the Lateran), under the aegis of Pope Innocent II (1139) called the practice of loaning money \"detestable and shameful... insatiable rapacity of money lenders, forbidden both by divine and human laws throughout the Old and New Testament, we condemn, and separate from the ecclesiastical consolation...\" (Denzinger p. 148–149).\n\nThe Council of Vienne (1311–1312) under Pope Clement V declared: \"If anyone shall fall into that error, so that he obstinately presumes to declare that it is not a sin to exercise usury, we decree that he must be punished as a heretic.\" (Denzinger p. 189). The distinction between usury and putting money out while \"assuming the risk\" was not mentioned. However, it could be argued that any time one assumed the risk, it was not considered usury.\n\nThere was always some confusion, and variance, in this teaching during the Middle Ages. The Fifth Lateran Council, (1515) decreed that a \"reasonable degree of return\" was allowable. (Denzinger p. 238). The social evil that was associated with usury was the fact that poor tenant farmers and city dwellers were often thrown into prison, or even killed if they could not repay the money they borrowed, and the interest charged. In these cases, the lenders of the money had assumed no risk. The Franciscan St. Anthony of Padua (1195–1231 AD) preached against this evil.\n\nThese events were occurring at a time when the Ecclesiastical Courts had great judicial power. There were several philosophical cross currents at play. On the one hand, the Canon Lawyers looked favorably on the products of labor, wages and profit, while holding suspect speculation, banking and finance. The Church discountenanced the fluctuations of wages and prices caused by the law of supply and demand. There was an attempt to maintain fixed standards of value. At the same time, there was a liberal and equitable view toward the old Roman idea of \"contract\". The Church Courts invented and refined the idea of \"consideration\" ; the quid pro quo in modern contract. This was something that was lacking in Roman contract. Insurance, assignability and negotiability were developments in the Church Courts. These areas were largely ignored by the Common Law, or secular law of the day, especially in England (Plucknett p. 302,304).\n\nThe Catholic Church's teaching on social doctrine has grown significantly more complicated since that time. It is beyond the scope of this article to delve into modern teaching. A summary can be found in the new Catechism of the Catholic Church, sections 2419–2463.\n\nThe question frequently arose whether the children of Jews and other heretics and non-believers should be baptized against the will of their parents. Two schools of thought were generally followed:\n\nTherefore, even if children were being reared in error, the Church had no authority to intervene. This was the position taken by Aquinas. From Summa Theologica II-II Q. 10 Art. 12:\n\nThe question was again addressed by Aquinas in Summa Theologica III Q. 68 Art. 10:\n\nThe issue was discussed in a papal bull by Pope Benedict XIV (1747) where both schools were addressed. The pope noted that the position of Aquinas had been more widely held among theologians and canon lawyers, than that of John Duns Scotus (See Denzinger).\n\n\nA primary goal of all philosophy is the proof of existence: the existence of God, the universe, and the self (see Colish, Macdonald-Cornford, Russell, Nahm, Pieper, Gilson). Although St. Thomas \"five proofs\" are the most referenced, they are targeted toward a Catholic audience. In Summa Contra Gentiles, Thomas provides a much lengthier and detailed proof that does not rely on divine revelation. God's existence is established based on the proposition that man's reason is capable of apprehending a cause from its effects. After analyzing motion, it becomes apparent that the first mover must be unmoved, without cause, and uncreated. From this, it then follows that the unmoved mover must be without change, and, therefore, must be eternal. The understanding that goodness and being are interchangeable leads to the realization that God is goodness. God is also found to be intelligent because he is not composed of matter nor is the form of any body. Since God is the first cause, His effects can be observed by the diversity found in creation, and the study of this is the study of Divine Providence. After building a foundation of proofs based upon natural reasoning, Aquinas then demonstrates that the Catholic Faith cannot be disproved and goes on to defend various positions against the Incarnation, the sacraments, and the Resurrection. This line of thought is also followed in the Summa Theologica and the Compendium of Theology.\n\nA basic question of Greek Philosophy: Can an organized hierarchy (as is seen in nature) exist in the absence of an intelligence? In the atheistic view, the answer is \"yes\". If one answers \"no\", then there is a necessity of an intelligent God. The Greeks called this ultimate intelligence the \"gnos\" or \"nous\" (Nahm pp. 1–28). However, the intimate nature of this intelligence cannot be delineated by human contemplation. Many philosophers concluded that the Universe itself, was the God (Gilson). It was basically indifferent the needs of the human. This is very different from the Judeo-Christian concept of an intimate and loving God, aware of all.\n\nSome Greek philosophers such as Zeno of Citium, Chrysippus, Plotinus, Thales of Miletus, Heraclitus, Parmenides, Socrates, Plato and Aristotle came to the conclusion that there had to be a God. Their conclusions were based on various physical observations: there could be no infinity of actions, therefore, there must be an unmoving mover, which moves without moving. This is the prime mover. There has to be a beginning and an end, otherwise, everything would have happened long ago and not now. This is also seen in Jewish philosophy (which may be based on Greek philosophy). There must be an ultimate smallness, of which there can be nothing smaller: the atomus (Leucippus, Democritus). This was in response to the Paradoxes of Zeno: there could be no motion, since every moving body would have to pass through half the distance, then one-quarter the distance, etc. A body could not pass through an infinite number of points. This led to the conclusion that all nature was united: the doctrine of the \"One\". Therefore, the human mind could reasonably conclude that there was a single God, and that this God existed (For an overview see Gilson p. 29-83; Russell pp. 453–463). This God had to be intelligent.\n\nWhen Moses wished to know the name of God in order to reveal it to the Jewish people, he asked God directly. Exodus 3, 13-14: \"'Lo! I go to the children of Israel, and I shall say to them: the God of your fathers sent me to you. If they ask me His name what shall I say to them?' God replied: 'I Am Who Am.' Then He added, 'Thus will you reply to the children of Israel: He Who Is sends me to you.'\" Therefore, the proper name of God is \"I Am\" or \"Who Is\". This was a remarkable exposition on several levels. First, the idea that the great, unapproachable God of the Hebrews would provide His name was exceptional. Recall that in these ancient cultures, to know the name of a person was to possess them, or a part of them, in some way. Also, the name is unusual. What did this mean? (Gilson) The only means available to the early Christians for evaluating philosophy was provided by the Greeks. Largely, this was within the Stoic school, which had been re-invigorated by the Persians whom Alexander the Great had brought back to Greece. These in turn, influenced the Roman Stoic Schools which affected both pagan and Christian thought (Colish pp. 9, 12,21, 179-180, 300-301; Russell pp. 252–270). Christianity has been described as a religion without a need for a philosophic basis. The Stoics gave it one (Gilson, p. 84).\n\nSt. Augustine was convinced that the God of Exodus was Plato's being. He speculated that Plato must have known of Exodus. \"But what makes me almost subscribe to the idea that Plato was not completely ignorant of the Old Testament is that when the Angel conveys the words of God to the holy man Moses, who asks the name of the one who is sending him to proceed to the deliverance of the Hebrew people, the reply is: 'I Am Who Am', and you are to say to the children of Israel: 'it is He Who is Who has sent me to you.' It was as if, in comparison with him who truly is because he is immovable, he who has been made movable did not exist. Now Plato was intensely convinced of this and he took great care to say so.\" (Augustine De Civ. Dei 8:11, PL 41,236). The Being in Exodus was the same immovable entity of Plato, according to Augustine. he called the immovable being of Plato, \"The first and highest being is that which is entirely immovable, and which can say by full right: 'I Am Who Am'; and you will tell them, 'He Who Is has sent me to you.'\" (St. Augustine, De doctrina christiana, I, 32,5; PL 34, 32).\n\nSt. Augustine had a very deep sense of the difficulty of the problem presented by this tract. He asked the question \"I Am\" what? From John 8, 24: \"If you do not believe that I Am, you will die in your sins.\" But Augustine asked, \"si non credideritis quia ego sum?\" (I Am What?) There was nothing added. Augustine found this embarrassing. \"We were waiting for Him to say what He was, and He says nothing.\" Augustine: \"If you do not believe that I Am the Christ; if you do not believe that I Am the Son of God; if you do not believe that I Am the Word of the Father; if you do not believe that I Am the author of the world; if you do not believe that I Am the former and the reformer of man, his creator and recreator, He Who made him and remade him; if you do not believe that I Am that, you will die in your sins. This I Am, He says He Is, is embarrassing. Even if Moses could understand this, how could the people to whom he was being sent understand it? In point of fact, he did add: 'I Am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob (Exodus 3, 13-15)(Augustine on the Gospel of St. John) (Gilson, p. 85)\n\nThis is the source of the doctrine of divine essentialitas, or essential theology of Augustine which would influence Richard of St. Victor, Alexander of Hales and St. Bonaventure. By this method, the essence of God is defined by what God is, and also by describing what God is not (negative theology). St. Thomas took the text of Exodus beyond the explanation of essential theology. He bridged the gap of understanding between the being of essence and the being of existence. In Summa Theologica, the way is prepared with the proofs for the existence of God. All that remained was to recognize the God of Exodus as having the nature of \"Him Who is the supreme act of being\". God is simple, there is no composition in God. In this regard, Aquinas relied on Boethius who in turn followed the path of Platonism, something Aquinas usually avoided. The conclusion was that the meaning of \"I Am Who Am\" is not an enigma to be answered, but the statement of the essence of God. This is the discovery of Aquinas: the essence of God is not described by negative analogy, but the \"essence of God is to exist\". This is the basis of \"existential theology\" and leads to what Gilson calls the first and only existential philosophy. In Latin, this is called \"Haec Sublimis Veritas\", \"the sublime truth\". The revealed essence of God is to exist, or in the words of Aquinas, I am the pure Act of Being. This has been described as the key to understanding Thomism. Thomism has been described (in terms of a philosophic movement), as either the emptiest, or the fullest of philosophies. (For a full discussion, see Gilson, pp. 84–95)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37665280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37665280", "title": "Viktor Sonnenfeld", "text": "Viktor Sonnenfeld\n\nViktor D. Sonnenfeld (21 January 1902 – 30 March 1969) was prominent Croatian translator and philosopher.\n\nSonnenfeld was born to a Jewish family in Petrijevci, near Osijek, on 21 January 1902. In Osijek, Sonnenfeld finished elementary school and gymnasium, and in Zagreb and Marseille, he studied philosophy. All his life Sonnenfeld worked and acted in Osijek. He worked at the Osijek daily \"Hrvatski list\", and for 20 years at \"Glas Slavonije\" as the editor of cultural section. Sonnenfeld translated works of German philosophers and writers such as; Immanuel Kant, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Friedrich Nietzsche and others. Overall, from German to Croatian, he translated 940 titles. City and University Library in Osijek has stored Sonnenfeld personal library, a legacy of the 3345 book. Sonnenfeld retired and died in 1969, and was buried at Jewish part of the cemetery Sv. Ana, Osijek.\n\nFrom German to Croatian:\n"}
{"id": "1976835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1976835", "title": "Zichan", "text": "Zichan\n\nGongsun Qiao (; died 522 BC), better known by his courtesy name Zichan (), was a statesman of the State of Zheng during the Spring and Autumn period of ancient China. His ancestral surname was Ji (姬), and clan name Guo (國).\n\nA grandson of Duke Mu of Zheng, Zichan served as prime minister of Zheng from 544 BC until his death. Under Zichan, Zheng managed to expand its territory, a difficult task for a small state surrounded by several large states. Zichan reformed the government to emphasise the rule of law. As a philosopher, Zichan separated the domains of heaven and the human world, arguing against superstition and believing that humans should be grounded in reality.\n\nZichan was responsible for many reforms that strengthened the state of Zheng. A realist, Zichan was heavily involved in all aspects of the state, reforming agricultural and commercial laws, setting the borders, centralising the state, ensuring the hiring of capable ministers, and changing social norms. He prohibited the hanging and later deliver of pamphlets, but is also recorded as having prevented other ministers from executing a man for criticising the government, arguing that it was in the best interests of the state to listen to the opinions of the common people.\n\nZichan reformed the government to emphasise the rule of law. In 543 BC, he had the state's code of law cast in bronze ding, a first among the Zhou states. He also enacted harsh punishments for criminals. Because of his focus on laws, historians often classify him as a Legalist.\n\nThe Zuo Zhuan records that he drafted penal laws to protect private property.\n\nZichan was also highly skilled in state-to-state politics. When the State of Jin tried to interfere in Zheng's internal affairs after the death of a Zheng minister, Zichan was well aware of the danger, arguing that if Jin was allowed to determine the successor of the deceased minister in the state of Zheng, Zheng would then have lost its sovereignty to Jin. He then proceeded to convince Jin not to interfere in Zheng's internal politics.\n\n"}
