{"id": "31473337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31473337", "title": "23rd Golden Eagle Awards", "text": "23rd Golden Eagle Awards\n\nThe 23rd Golden Eagle Awards were held October 27, 2006, in Changsha, Hunan province. Nominees and winners are listed below, winners are in bold.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9711130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711130", "title": "29th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "29th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 29th World Science Fiction Convention, also known as Noreascon I, was held September 2–6, 1971, at the Sheraton-Boston Hotel in Boston, Massachusetts, United States.\n\nThe chairman was Tony Lewis. The guests of honor were Clifford D. Simak (pro) and Harry Warner, Jr. (fan). The toastmaster was Robert Silverberg. Total attendance was approximately 1,600.\n\nThe convention is mentioned in the preface to \"The Ringworld Engineers\" for the MIT students who pointed out that the Ringworld would be unstable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29771780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29771780", "title": "Alpha Monocerotids", "text": "Alpha Monocerotids\n\nThe Alpha Monocerotids is a meteor shower with the international acronym AMO active in November, not to be confused with the December Monocerotids, international acronym MON. The swarm is visible every year from 15 to 25 November; its peak occurs on 21 or 22 November. The speed of its meteors is 65 km/s. Normally it has a low Zenithal Hourly Rate (ZHR), but occasionally it produces remarkable meteor storms that last less than an hour: such outbursts were observed in 1925, 1935, 1985, and 1995. Peter Jenniskens predicted the 1995 return based on the hypothesis that these outbursts were caused by the dust trail of a long period comet occasionally wandering in Earth's path due to planetary perturbations. During observations in southern Spain, assisted by a team of observers of the Dutch Meteor Society, Jenniskens confirmed that the meteoroids were moving in a long-period comet orbit. The outburst of 1995 allowed researchers to determine the exact radiant of the swarm and the solar longitude of its peak as well as to confirm the brevity of Alpha Monocerotids outbursts as less than one hour. The parent body, probably a long-period comet, is unknown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23640750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23640750", "title": "Antibiotic misuse", "text": "Antibiotic misuse\n\nAntibiotic misuse, sometimes called antibiotic abuse or antibiotic overuse, refers to the misuse or overuse of antibiotics, with potentially serious effects on health. It is a contributing factor to the development of antibiotic resistance, including the creation of multidrug-resistant bacteria, informally called \"super bugs\": relatively harmless bacteria (such as staphylococcus, enterococcus and acinetobacter) can develop resistance to multiple antibiotics and cause life-threatening infections.\n\nAntibiotics have been around since 1928 when penicillin was discovered by Alexander Fleming. In the 1980s, antibiotics that were determined medically important for treatment of animals could be approved under veterinary oversight. In 1996, the National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) was established. Starting in 2010, publications regarding antimicrobial drugs in food become an annual report. Starting in 2012, there was publicly solicited input on how data is to be collected and reported for matters relating to the use of antimicrobials for food-producing animals. Resulting from this, the FDA revised its sampling structure within NARMS with the goal of obtaining more representative livestock data for the key organisms under surveillance. “NARMS partners at CDC and USDA have published over 150 peer-reviewed research articles examining the nature and magnitude of antimicrobial resistance hazards associated with antibiotic use in food-producing animals.” In 2014, the FDA began working with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to explore additional mechanisms to obtain data that is representative of antibiotic use in food-producing animals. In 2015, the FDA issues the Veterinary Feed Directive (VFD) final rule. Under this rule veterinarians must authorize the use of antimicrobials within feed for the animals they serve.\n\nCommon situations in which antibiotics are overused include the following:\n\nAntibiotics can cause severe reactions and add significantly to the cost of care. In the United States, antibiotics and anti-infectives are the leading cause of adverse effect from drugs. In a study of 32 States in 2011, antibiotics and anti-infectives accounted for nearly 24 percent of ADEs that were present on admission, and 28 percent of those that occurred during a hospital stay.\n\nIf antimicrobial resistance continues to increase from current levels, it is estimated that by 2050 ten million people would die every year due to lack of available treatment and the world’s GDP would be 2 - 3.5% lower in 2050. If worldwide action is not taken to combat antibiotic misuse and the development of antimicrobial resistance, from 2014 - 2050 it is estimated that 300 million people could die prematurely due to drug resistance and $60 – 100 trillion of economic output would be lost. If the current worldwide development of antimicrobial resistance is delayed by just 10 years, $65 trillion of the world’s GDP output can be saved from 2014-2050.\n\nPrescribing by an infectious disease specialist compared with prescribing by a non-infectious disease specialist decreases antibiotic consumption and reduces costs.\n\nThough antibiotics are required to treat severe bacterial infections, misuse has contributed to a rise in bacterial resistance. The overuse of fluoroquinolone and other antibiotics fuels antibiotic resistance in bacteria, which can inhibit the treatment of antibiotic-resistant infections. Their excessive use in children with otitis media has given rise to a breed of bacteria resistant to antibiotics entirely. Additionally, the use of antimicrobial substances in building materials and personal care products has contributed to a higher percentage of antibiotic resistant bacteria in the indoor environment, where humans spend a large majority of their lives.\n\nWidespread use of fluoroquinolones as a first-line antibiotic has led to decreased antibiotic sensitivity, with negative implications for serious bacterial infections such as those associated with cystic fibrosis, where quinolones are among the few viable antibiotics.\n\nAntibiotics have no effect on viral infections such as the common cold. They are also ineffective against sore throats, which are usually viral and self-resolving. Most cases of bronchitis (90–95%) are viral as well, passing after a few weeks—the use of antibiotics against bronchitis is superfluous and can put the patient at risk of suffering adverse reactions.\n\nOfficial guidelines by the American Heart Association for dental antibiotic prophylaxis call for the administration of antibiotics to prevent infective endocarditis. Though the current (2007) guidelines dictate more restricted antibiotic use, many dentists and dental patients follow the 1997 guidelines instead, leading to overuse of antibiotics.\n\nA study by Imperial College London in February 2017 found that of 20 online websites, 9 would provide antibiotics (illegally) without a prescription to UK residents.\n\nThere has been massive use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. The most abundant use of antimicrobials worldwide is in livestock; they are typically distributed in animal feed or water for purposes such as disease prevention and growth promotion.\nDebates have arisen surrounding the extent of the impact of these antibiotics, particularly antimicrobial growth promoters, on human antibiotic resistance. Although some sources assert that there remains a lack of knowledge on which antibiotic use generates the most risk to humans, policies and regulations have been placed to limit any harmful effects, such as the potential of bacteria developing antibiotic resistance within livestock, and that bacteria transferring resistance genes to human pathogens \nOn January 1, 2017, the FDA enacted legislation to require that all human medically important feed-grade antibiotics (many prior over-the-counter-drugs) become classified as Veterinary Feed Directive drugs (VFD). This action requires that farmers establish and work with veterinaries to receive a written VFD order. The effect of this act places a requirement on an established veterinarian-client-patient relationship (VCPR). Through this relationship, farmers will receive an increased education in the form of advice and guidance from their veterinarian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45083958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45083958", "title": "April in Paris Ball", "text": "April in Paris Ball\n\nApril in Paris Ball was an annual US gala event whose mission was to serve charity and Franco-American relations. Established in 1952 at the Waldorf Astoria New York in New York City, it was the idea of Claude Philippe, the hotel's banquet manager, who enlisted Elsa Maxwell to help organize it.\n\nThe first event was a celebration of the 2,000th birthday of the city of Paris and was held in 1951. When it was decided to make the ball an annual event, the name was changed to the April in Paris Ball.\n\nThe April in Paris Ball was the brainchild of Claude Philippe, the banquet manager of the prestigious Waldorf Astoria, with the chief goal being to improve Franco-American relations, to share cultures, and to help provide assistance to US and French charities, aside from commemorating the 2000th anniversary of the founding of Paris. The first ball was called the Paris Birthday Ball and was held on May 7, 1951. When the ball became an annual event, its name became the April in Paris Ball. While the hotel's management handled invitations and publicity, other details were coordinated by socialites. Elsa Maxwell was given the primary responsibility in organizing it. Mrs. William C. T. Gaynor served as general chairman of the ball in 1954-57.\n\nIt was initially held annually in April, but according to Ann Vaccaro, former executive director of the ball, it was changed to October because \"Mr. Philippe decided that because there are so many balls in the spring he would make it in October\". After being changed to October, it often marked the start of the US fall social season. It was staged in the Grand Ballroom at the Waldorf for eight years before moving to the Hotel Astor in 1960, the Seventh Regiment Armory in 1961, and other venues.\n\nThe ball was designed to cater for \"very, very high-class people\" according to Vaccaro. Raffle tickets cost US$100 per person and offered opulent prizes such as a US$5000 bracelet and other jewels, expensive furs, perfumes and even cars. In the 1960 event, prizes given included a Ford Thunderbird car, a Chinchilla coat, a Renault Dauphine, a TV Hi-Fi system, an electric typewriter, 25 cases of expensive French wines, original paintings and porcelains, jewels, clocks, evening bags and a pedigree poodle, with gift boxes given to guests which included gold key rings and jewelry, champagne and brandy, Maxim ashtrays, pipes, silver bottle openers, hats and scarves, and flowers. Every guest was said to have gone home with at least one gift in return. In the 1979 event, some US$106,000 worth of prizes were given out. Over its history, the ball, which was exempt from tax, earned millions of dollars, which went primarily to over 20 American charities such as the American Cancer Society, with 15 to 20% going towards French charities. A staff of three people were paid full-time throughout the year to organize it. Of the expenses of the ball, founder Philippe stated \"We charge the most, give the most, and make the most — it's a success formula\". Bernard F. Gimbel served as chief treasurer.\n\nThe initial show featured a \"three-hour spectacular of five tableaux, directed by Stuart Chaney\", [depicting] a twelfth century scene of troubadours at the court of Eleanor of Aquitaine, Henry VIII's meeting at the Field of the Cloth of Gold, Louis XIV at Versailles, and a fashion show of forty creations by Dior, Fath, Balmain, Dessès and Givenchy\". Most of designer Jean Desses' mid-season collection was shown at the ball before his Paris showings in May. Court jesters, singers, numerous dancers, dwarf wrestlers, jousters, trained animals loaned by John Ringling, and three dozen Scotch pipers were also a feature. French stars Juliette Greco, Jean Sablon, Beatrice Lillie, John Loder, and many others were flown over for the ball. Maxwell and Lillie, dressed as a beturbaned maharajah from India and a harem girl, arrived with brooms and buckets, following an elephant. The coatroom charge was a surprise to the guests; instead of the usual two bits, it was raised to US$0.35 per item.\n\nThe second ball, held on 20 April 1953 was organized to celebrate the 400th anniversary of the death of French Renaissance writer and humanist François Rabelais. A spectacular of six tableaux were put on, consisting of \"Le Moyen Age\", with costumes by Marcel Rochas, \"Le Cardinal aux Chats\", with costumes by Jacques Fath, \"Dans les Jardins de Marly\", with costumes by Jeanne Lanvin, \"Les Chinois a Versailles\", with costumes by Nina Ricci and Arturo López Willshaw, \"Cendrillon de Paris\", a fashion show featuring gowns by Balenciaga, Balmain, Desses, Diro, Fath, Givenchy, Gres, Lanvin, Patou and Schiaparelli and hats by Gilbert Orcel, Legroux Soeurs, Paulette and Caroline Reboux, and finally a \"François Rabelais\" play, starring Walter Slezak as Rabelais, Tom Ewell as Panurge, Betsy von Furstenberg as Lady Dantern, Albert Hecht as Friar John, and John Cromwell as Bird. The Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus provided a gymnast, dwarf, a juggler, a gargantua and animals. Roger Dunn, Tyrone Power and Reginald Gardiner were invited to conduct the master of ceremonies, with special mention to French actress Suzy Delair. Furniture, tapestries and banners from 17th and 18th century France were provided by French & Co., Lace and Tulle by the Federation Nationale Francaise de Dentelles Tulles Broderies et Passementeries, and jewels by Cartier.\n\nRobert Joffrey fitted out the ballroom as the court of Versailles for the 1954 ball, with students from the Joffrey Ballet and American Ballet Theatre as performers, and Victor Borge cast as Louis XIV. With Audrey Hepburn too ill to perform as John Paul Jones, Gloria Vanderbilt stepped in at the last minute, which impressed Gilbert Miller. Jacqueline Kennedy was an attendee.\n\nThe 1957 event, attended by Senator John F. Kennedy, his wife, Jackie, and Marilyn Monroe, included 1300 guests, who paid $100 each and donated $130,000 to charities; the Duke and Duchess of Windsor attended as well. The Duchess and Elsa Maxwell had reportedly had a major falling out at another ball four years earlier and sat far apart from each other and didn't speak even when they were in the elevator together. The Duke and Duchess were the guests of honor and were seated at the most visible table in the ballroom. One article in \" The Times Standard\" even claimed that Maxwell had invited Monroe to the ball to publicly embarrass the Duchess; when Monroe arrived more than 30 photographer abandoned her to photograph Monroe. After the ball, a wealthy New York broker offered to donate $50,000 to charity if Maxwell and the Duchess would abandon their feud and shake hands in front of press photographers. Maxwell was most willing to end the quarrel in this way, but the Duchess declined the offer. The following year, the ballroom was decorated with high chestnut trees. The event brought in US$170,000 for charities.\n\nThe 1959 ball, the final one to be held at the Waldorf on 10 April 1959, centred around the theme of the Parisian circus of the 18th century. 1000 people attended, paying $150 per ticket. Genuine circus costumes from the period were flown over from France, and the ball featured Marlene Dietrich as a ringmaster in trousers, a waistcoat, top hat and white gloves. Dietrich sang two Maurice Chevalier songs, \"Louise\" and \"Mimi\". Cecil Beaton designed a big top of ruby velvet with a \"hedge of colored fountains\" and thousands of purple flowers.\n\nDue to conflict between Philippe and the Waldorf-Astoria staff, he was exiled from the Waldorf in 1960, and the ball was moved to the Hotel Astor that year, where the likes of Dietrich, Maurice Chevalier, Joan Crawford and organizer Elsa Maxwell helped transform it into the Paris Opera House. A photomural of the Paris Opera House was \"mounted on plywood and superimposed in front of Astor Hotel creating the illusion of [the] actual opera house\", and photomurals of the interior completed the transformation. Held on 9 April 1960 under the title of \"Un Bal Masque a l'Opéra de Paris\", the show featured a series of tableaux entitled \"L'Elegance de Paris\", with costumes by Revillon, \"La Couture\", with designs by Pierre Cardin, Jean Desses, Christian Dior, Gres, Jacques Heim, Hermès, Guy LaRoche, Nina Ricci and Jean Patou, \"La Couleur Opera\", featuring \"La Cabaret de l'Aurore\" and the Lester Lanin orchestra and the US premiere of the 1735 Jean-Philippe Rameau French opera-ballet \"Les Indes Galantes\", starring Mony Dalmes, Jean-Pierre Aumont and Jean Jacques Strauss, \"Les Fleurs\", with Parisian and European opera and ballet stars such as Claude Besny, Pierre LaCotte, George Zoritch, Judith Raskin, and Madeleine Rizzo, and finally \"Les Savages & La Chaconne\", featuring Cathryn Damon, Dorothy Straiger, Constance Carpenter, Gretchen Wyler, Charlton Heston and Myles Easton.\n\nSeveral ball committee members felt that the name of the ball should be changed, since it was no longer held in April, but in the fall. In 1968, the ball's name was changed to Bal de l'Amitie. The new name lasted only one year and it once more became known as the April in Paris ball in 1969. Moune de Rival was invited to the 1970 event, while in 1973, Josephine Baker was its star. Russell Edwards of \"The New York Times\" stated that even in 1974 the Paris Ball \"remains the most prestigious, with its national and international guest list, but not necessarily the most social\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1565940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1565940", "title": "Benjamin Franklin Dillingham", "text": "Benjamin Franklin Dillingham\n\nBenjamin Franklin Dillingham (September 4, 1844 – April 7, 1918) was a businessman and industrialist during the late Kingdom of Hawaii era, throughout the period of the Republic of Hawaii, and during the first two decades of the Territory of Hawaii.\n\nDillingham was born on September 4, 1844 into an old New England family in Brewster, on Cape Cod in Massachusetts. His father was Benjamin C. Dillingham and mother was Lydia Sears Howes. At the age of fourteen he became a sailor on the Yankee clipper \"Southern Cross\" which was captured and destroyed by the Confederate steamer \"Florida\" in 1863 during the American Civil War. In 1865 he became first mate of a barque named \"Whistler\" that did a regular run between San Francisco and Honolulu. On his third trip to the island kingdom, Dillingham broke his leg after falling from a horse and was forced to convalesce in Hawaii.\n\nHe decided to stay in Honolulu and by the end of 1865 was a clerk at Diamond Hardware, which he bought out for $28,000 in 1869. On April 26, 1869 he married Emma Louise Smith (1844–1920), of a prominent missionary family. She was the daughter of Reverend Lowell Smith and Abigail Willis Tenney. Dillingham turned out to be an astute businessman, and more importantly, was always willing to take risks. In 1879 he started a dairy farm in upper Honolulu, and during the 1880s became increasingly successful. He founded the Oahu Railway and Land Company (OR&L) that began service in November 1889. Dillingham was well liked among Honolulu's various communities, and he included King Kalākaua and Queen Liliuokalani as his friends. Although he disapproved of the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii in 1893, he looked favorably on the American annexation in 1898, which he believed would bring long-term stability to the islands. Dillingham spent the rest of his life in Hawaii.\n\nApart from the OR&L, Dillingham was especially active in sugarcane plantations, including the Olaa Sugar Company on the Big Island, and the Ewa and Kahuku sugarcane plantations on Oahu. While the OR&L and these sugar companies were profitable, Dillingham's Big Island railroad, the Hawaii Consolidated Railway (Hilo Railroad) was a financial drain until its destruction by a tsunami in 1946. His Hawaiian Fiber Company, which operated a sisal plantation on the Ewa coral plain in southwestern Oahu, was ultimately also a failure. Nevertheless, Dillingham was one of the major business people in the early years of Hawaii's economic and industrial development.\n\nHe died on April 7, 1918 and was buried in Oahu Cemetery. Two days before, James Bicknell Castle, a distant cousin of his wife and a partner in sugarcane plantation ventures, died. His son Walter F. Dillingham (1875–1963) would also become a businessman in Oahu.\n\nHis wife Emma Louise Smith Dillingham wrote a book of poetry on Diamond Head. His daughter Mary Emma (known as May) Dillingham married Walter Francis Frear (1863–1948) who became Governor of the Territory of Hawaii 1907–1913.\nThe next governor from 1913 to 1918, Lucius Pinkham, was a Democrat, although he had worked for Dillingham at OR&L 1892–1894 and as manager of his hardware company 1898–1903.\nTwo sons died young, Charles Augustus Dillingham (1872–1874) and Alfred Hubbard Dillingham (1880–1880).\nYoungest son Harold Garfield Dillingham (October 9, 1881 – December 19, 1971) married Margaret Bayard Hyde-Smith in 1908 and had 5 children. Youngest daughter Marion Eleanor Dillingham (September 23, 1883 – January 19, 1972) married John Pinney Erdman in 1904 and had five children.\n"}
{"id": "455150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455150", "title": "Causes of the Great Depression", "text": "Causes of the Great Depression\n\nThe causes of the Great Depression in the early 20th century have been extensively discussed by economists and remain a matter of active debate. They are part of the larger debate about economic crises. The specific economic events that took place during the Great Depression are well established. There was an initial stock market crash that triggered a \"panic sell-off\" of assets. This was followed by a deflation in asset and commodity prices, dramatic drops in demand and credit, and disruption of trade, ultimately resulting in widespread unemployment (over 13 million people were unemployed by 1932) and impoverishment. However, economists and historians have not reached a consensus on the causal relationships between various events and government economic policies in causing or ameliorating the Depression.\n\nCurrent mainstream theories may be broadly classified into two main points of view. The first are the demand-driven theories, from Keynesian and institutional economists who argue that the depression was caused by a widespread loss of confidence that led to underconsumption. The demand-driven theories argue that the financial crisis following the 1929 crash led to a sudden and persistent reduction in consumption and investment spending. Once panic and deflation set in, many people believed they could avoid further losses by keeping clear of the markets. Holding money therefore became profitable as prices dropped lower and a given amount of money bought ever more goods, exacerbating the drop in demand.\n\nSecond, there are the monetarists, who believe that the Great Depression started as an ordinary recession, but that significant policy mistakes by monetary authorities (especially the Federal Reserve) caused a shrinking of the money supply which greatly exacerbated the economic situation, causing a recession to descend into the Great Depression. Related to this explanation are those who point to debt deflation causing those who borrow to owe ever more in real terms.\n\nThere are also several various heterodox theories that reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists. Some new classical macroeconomists have argued that various labor market policies imposed at the start caused the length and severity of the Great Depression. The Austrian school of economics focuses on the macroeconomic effects of money supply and how central banking decisions can lead to malinvestment. Marxist economists view the Great Depression, with all other economic crises, as a symptom of the cyclical nature of capitalism and the instability that is inherent in the capitalist model.\n\nThe two classical competing theories of the Great Depression are the Keynesian (demand-driven) and the monetarist explanation. There are also various heterodox theories that downplay or reject the explanations of the Keynesians and monetarists.\n\nEconomists and economic historians are almost evenly split as to whether the traditional monetary explanation that monetary forces were the primary cause of the Great Depression is right, or the traditional Keynesian explanation that a fall in autonomous spending, particularly investment, is the primary explanation for the onset of the Great Depression. Today the controversy is of lesser importance since there is mainstream support for the debt deflation theory and the expectations hypothesis that building on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz add non-monetary explanations.\n\nThere is consensus that the Federal Reserve System should have cut short the process of monetary deflation and banking collapse. If the Fed had done that, the economic downturn would have been far less severe and much shorter.\n\nIn his book \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money\" (1936), British economist John Maynard Keynes introduced concepts that were intended to help explain the Great Depression. He argued that there are reasons why the self-correcting mechanisms that many economists claimed should work during a downturn might not work.\n\nOne argument for a non-interventionist policy during a recession was that if consumption fell due to savings, the savings would cause the rate of interest to fall. According to the classical economists, lower interest rates would lead to increased investment spending and demand would remain constant. However, Keynes argues that there are good reasons why investment does not necessarily increase in response to a fall in the interest rate. Businesses make investments based on expectations of profit. Therefore, if a fall in consumption appears to be long-term, businesses analyzing trends will lower expectations of future sales. Therefore, the last thing they are interested in doing is investing in increasing future production, even if lower interest rates make capital inexpensive. In that case, the economy can be thrown into a general slump due to a decline in consumption. According to Keynes, this self-reinforcing dynamic is what occurred to an extreme degree during the Depression, where bankruptcies were common and investment, which requires a degree of optimism, was very unlikely to occur. This view is often characterized by economists as being in opposition to Say's Law.\n\nThe idea that reduced capital investment was a cause of the depression is a central theme in secular stagnation theory.\n\nKeynes argued that if the national government spent more money to help the economy to recover the money normally spent by consumers and business firms, then unemployment rates would fall. The solution was for the Federal Reserve System to \"create new money for the national government to borrow and spend\" and to cut taxes rather than raising them, in order for consumers to spend more, and other beneficial factors. Hoover chose to do the opposite of what Keynes thought to be the solution and allowed the federal government to raise taxes exceedingly to reduce the budget shortage brought upon by the depression. Keynes proclaimed that more workers could be employed by decreasing interest rates, encouraging firms to borrow more money and make more products. Employment would prevent the government from having to spend any more money by increasing the amount at which consumers would spend. Keynes' theory was then confirmed by the length of the Great Depression within the United States and the constant unemployment rate. Employment rates began to rise in preparation for World War II by increasing government spending. \"In light of these developments, the Keynesian explanation of the Great Depression was increasingly accepted by economists, historians, and politicians\".\n\nIn their 1963 book \"A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960\", Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz laid out their case for a different explanation of the Great Depression. Essentially, the Great Depression, in their view, was caused by the fall of the money supply. Friedman and Schwartz write: \"From the cyclical peak in August 1929 to a cyclical trough in March 1933, the stock of money fell by over a third.\" The result was what Friedman and Schwartz called \"The Great Contraction\" — a period of falling income, prices, and employment caused by the choking effects of a restricted money supply. Friedman and Schwartz argue that people wanted to hold more money than the Federal Reserve was supplying. As a result, people hoarded money by consuming less. This caused a contraction in employment and production since prices were not flexible enough to immediately fall. The Fed's failure was in not realizing what was happening and not taking corrective action. In a speech honoring Friedman and Schwartz, Ben Bernanke stated:\n\n\"Let me end my talk by abusing slightly my status as an official representative of the Federal Reserve. I would like to say to Milton and Anna: Regarding the Great Depression, you're right. We did it. We're very sorry. But thanks to you, we won't do it again.\"<br>\n— Ben S. Bernanke\n\nAfter the Depression, the primary explanations of it tended to ignore the importance of the money supply. However, in the monetarist view, the Depression was \"in fact a tragic testimonial to the importance of monetary forces.\" In their view, the failure of the Federal Reserve to deal with the Depression was not a sign that monetary policy was impotent, but that the Federal Reserve implemented the wrong policies. They did not claim the Fed \"caused\" the depression, only that it failed to use policies that might have stopped a recession from turning into a depression.\n\nThe U.S. economy during this period went through a number of cycles of boom and bust. The depressions often seemed to be set off by bank panics, the most significant occurring in 1873, 1893, 1901, 1907, and 1920. Before the 1913 establishment of the Federal Reserve, the banking system had dealt with these crises in the U.S. (such as in the Panic of 1907) by suspending the convertibility of deposits into currency. Starting in 1893, there were growing efforts by financial institutions and business men to intervene during these crises, providing liquidity to banks that were suffering runs. During the banking panic of 1907, an ad-hoc coalition assembled by J. P. Morgan successfully intervened in this way, thereby cutting off the panic, which was likely the reason why the depression that would normally have followed a banking panic did not happen this time. A call by some for a government version of this solution resulted in the establishment of the Federal Reserve.\n\nBut in 1928–32, the Federal Reserve did not act to provide liquidity to banks suffering bank runs. In fact, its policy contributed to the banking crisis by permitting a sudden contraction of the money supply. During the Roaring Twenties, the central bank had set as its primary goal \"price stability\", in part because the governor of the New York Federal Reserve, Benjamin Strong, was a disciple of Irving Fisher, a tremendously popular economist who popularized stable prices as a monetary goal. It had kept the number of dollars at such an amount that prices of goods in society appeared stable. In 1928, Strong died, and with his death this policy ended, to be replaced with a real bills doctrine requiring that all currency or securities have material goods backing them. This policy permitted the U.S. money supply to fall by over a third from 1929 to 1933.\n\nWhen this money shortage caused runs on banks, the Fed maintained its true bills policy, refusing to lend money to the banks in the way that had cut short the 1907 panic, instead allowing each to suffer a catastrophic run and fail entirely. This policy resulted in a series of bank failures in which one-third of all banks vanished. According to Ben Bernanke, the subsequent credit crunches led to waves of bankruptcies. Friedman said that if a policy similar to 1907 had been followed during the banking panic at the end of 1930, perhaps this would have stopped the vicious circle of the forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices. Consequently, the banking panics of 1931, 1932, and 1933 might not have happened, just as suspension of convertibility in 1893 and 1907 had quickly ended the liquidity crises at the time.\"\n\nMonetarist explanations had been rejected in Samuelson's work \"Economics\", writing \"Today few economists regard Federal Reserve monetary policy as a panacea for controlling the business cycle. Purely monetary factors are considered to be as much symptoms as causes, albeit symptoms with aggravating effects that should not be completely neglected.\" According to Keynesian economist Paul Krugman, the work of Friedman and Schwartz became dominant among mainstream economists by the 1980s but should be reconsidered in light of Japan's Lost Decade of the 1990s. The role of monetary policy in financial crises is in active debate regarding the 2007–12 global financial crisis; see Causes of the 2007–12 global financial crisis.\n\nThe monetary explanation has two weaknesses. First, it is not able to explain why the demand for money was falling more rapidly than the supply during the initial downturn in 1930–31. Second, it is not able to explain why in March 1933 a recovery took place although short term interest rates remained close to zero and the Money supply was still falling. These questions are addressed by modern explanations that build on the monetary explanation of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz but add non-monetary explanations.\n\nTotal debt to GDP levels in the U.S. reached a high of just under 300% by the time of the Depression. This level of debt was not exceeded again until near the end of the 20th century.\n\nJerome (1934) gives an unattributed quote about finance conditions that allowed the great industrial expansion of the post WW I period:\nProbably never before in this country had such a volume of funds been available at such low rates for such a long period.\n\nFurthermore, Jerome says that the volume of new capital issues increased at a 7.7% compounded annual rate from 1922–29 at a time when the Standard Statistics Co.'s index of 60 high grade bonds yielded from 4.98% in 1923 to 4.47% in 1927.\n\nThere was also a real estate and housing bubble in the 1920s, especially in Florida, which burst in 1925. Alvin Hansen stated that housing construction during the 1920s decade exceeded population growth by 25%. See also:Florida land boom of the 1920s Statistics kept by Cook County, Illinois show over 1 million vacant plots for homes in the Chicago area, despite only 950,000 plots being occupied, the result of Chicago's explosive population growth in combination with a real estate bubble.\n\nIrving Fisher argued the predominant factor leading to the Great Depression was over-indebtedness and deflation. Fisher tied loose credit to over-indebtedness, which fueled speculation and asset bubbles. He then outlined nine factors interacting with one another under conditions of debt and deflation to create the mechanics of boom to bust. The chain of events proceeded as follows:\n\nDuring the Crash of 1929 preceding the Great Depression, margin requirements were only 10%. Brokerage firms, in other words, would lend $90 for every $10 an investor had deposited. When the market fell, brokers called in these loans, which could not be paid back. Banks began to fail as debtors defaulted on debt and depositors attempted to withdraw their deposits en masse, triggering multiple bank runs. Government guarantees and Federal Reserve banking regulations to prevent such panics were ineffective or not used. Bank failures led to the loss of billions of dollars in assets.\n\nOutstanding debts became heavier, because prices and incomes fell by 20–50% but the debts remained at the same dollar amount. After the panic of 1929, and during the first 10 months of 1930, 744 U.S. banks failed. (In all, 9,000 banks failed during the 1930s.) By April 1933, around $7 billion in deposits had been frozen in failed banks or those left unlicensed after the March Bank Holiday.\n\nBank failures snowballed as desperate bankers called in loans, which the borrowers did not have time or money to repay. With future profits looking poor, capital investment and construction slowed or completely ceased. In the face of bad loans and worsening future prospects, the surviving banks became even more conservative in their lending. Banks built up their capital reserves and made fewer loans, which intensified deflationary pressures. A vicious cycle developed and the downward spiral accelerated.\n\nThe liquidation of debt could not keep up with the fall of prices it caused. The mass effect of the stampede to liquidate increased the value of each dollar owed, relative to the value of declining asset holdings. The very effort of individuals to lessen their burden of debt effectively increased it. Paradoxically, the more the debtors paid, the more they owed. This self-aggravating process turned a 1930 recession into a 1933 great depression.\n\nFisher's debt-deflation theory initially lacked mainstream influence because of the counter-argument that debt-deflation represented no more than a redistribution from one group (debtors) to another (creditors). Pure re-distributions should have no significant macroeconomic effects.\n\nBuilding on both the monetary hypothesis of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz as well as the debt deflation hypothesis of Irving Fisher, Ben Bernanke developed an alternative way in which the financial crisis affected output. He builds on Fisher's argument that dramatic declines in the price level and nominal incomes lead to increasing real debt burdens which in turn leads to debtor insolvency and consequently leads to lowered aggregate demand, a further decline in the price level then results in a debt deflationary spiral. According to Bernanke, a small decline in the price level simply reallocates wealth from debtors to creditors without doing damage to the economy. But when the deflation is severe falling asset prices along with debtor bankruptcies lead to a decline in the nominal value of assets on bank balance sheets. Banks will react by tightening their credit conditions, that in turn leads to a credit crunch which does serious harm to the economy. A credit crunch lowers investment and consumption and results in declining aggregate demand which additionally contributes to the deflationary spiral.\n\nEconomist Steve Keen revived the debt-reset theory after he accurately predicted the 2008 recession based on his analysis of the Great Depression, and recently advised Congress to engage in debt-forgiveness or direct payments to citizens in order to avoid future financial events. Some people support the debt-reset theory.\n\nExpectations have been a central element of macroeconomic models since the economic mainstream accepted the new neoclassical synthesis. While not rejecting that it was inadequate demand that sustained the depression, according to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the key to recovery and the end of the Great Depression was the successful management of public expectations. This thesis is based on the observation that after years of deflation and a very severe recession, important economic indicators turned positive in March 1933, just as Franklin D. Roosevelt took office. Consumer prices turned from deflation to a mild inflation, industrial production bottomed out in March 1933, investment doubled in 1933 with a turnaround in March 1933. There were no monetary forces to explain that turnaround. Money supply was still falling and short term interest rates remained close to zero. Before March 1933, people expected a further deflation and recession so that even interest rates at zero did not stimulate investment. But when Roosevelt announced major regime changes people began to expect inflation and an economic expansion. With those expectations, interest rates at zero began to stimulate investment as planned. Roosevelt's fiscal and monetary policy regime change helped to make his policy objectives credible. The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The analysis suggests that the elimination of the policy dogmas of the gold standard, a balanced budget in times of crises and small government led to a large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change had not happened and the Hoover policy had continued, the economy would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.\n\nThe recession of 1937–38, which slowed down economic recovery from the great depression, is explained by fears of the population that the moderate tightening of the monetary and fiscal policy in 1937 would be first steps to a restoration of the pre March 1933 policy regime.\n\nAustrian economists argue that the Great Depression was the inevitable outcome of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve during the 1920s. In their opinion, the central bank's policy was an \"easy credit policy\" which led to an unsustainable credit-driven boom. In the Austrian view, the inflation of the money supply during this period led to an unsustainable boom in both asset prices (stocks and bonds) and capital goods. By the time the Federal Reserve belatedly tightened monetary policy in 1928, it was too late to avoid a significant economic contraction. Austrians argue that government intervention after the crash of 1929 delayed the market's adjustment and made the road to complete recovery more difficult.\n\nAcceptance of the Austrian explanation of what primarily caused the Great Depression is compatible with either acceptance or denial of the Monetarist explanation. Austrian economist Murray Rothbard, who wrote \"America's Great Depression\" (1963), rejected the Monetarist explanation. He criticized Milton Friedman's assertion that the central bank failed to sufficiently increase the supply of money, claiming instead that the Federal Reserve did pursue an inflationary policy when, in 1932, it purchased $1.1 billion of government securities, which raised its total holding to $1.8 billion. Rothbard says that despite the central bank's policies, \"total bank reserves only rose by $212 million, while the total money supply fell by $3 billion\". The reason for this, he argues, is that the American populace lost faith in the banking system and began hoarding more cash, a factor very much beyond the control of the Central Bank. The potential for a run on the banks caused local bankers to be more conservative in lending out their reserves, which, according to Rothbard's argument, was the cause of the Federal Reserve's inability to inflate.\n\nFriedrich Hayek had criticised the FED and the Bank of England in the 1930s for not taking a more contractionary stance. However, in 1975, Hayek admitted that he made a mistake in the 1930s in not opposing the Central Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been ambivalent: \"At that time I believed that a process of deflation of some short duration might break the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy. In 1978, he made it clear that he agreed with the point of view of the Monetarists, saying, \"I agree with Milton Friedman that once the Crash had occurred, the Federal Reserve System pursued a silly deflationary policy\", and that he was as opposed to deflation as he was to inflation. Concordantly, economist Lawrence White argues that the business cycle theory of Hayek is inconsistent with a monetary policy which permits a severe contraction of the money supply.\n\nHans Sennholz argued that most boom and busts that plagued the American economy in 1819–20, 1839–43, 1857–60, 1873–78, 1893–97, and 1920–21, were generated by government creating a boom through easy money and credit, which was soon followed by the inevitable bust. The spectacular crash of 1929 followed five years of reckless credit expansion by the Federal Reserve System under the Coolidge Administration. The passing of the Sixteenth Amendment, the passage of The Federal Reserve Act, rising government deficits, the passage of the Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act, and the Revenue Act of 1932, exacerbated the crisis, prolonging it.\n\nMarxists generally argue that the Great Depression was the result of the inherent instability of the capitalist model.\n\nIn addition to the debt deflation there was a component of productivity deflation that had been occurring since The Great Deflation of the last quarter of the 19th century. There may have also been a continuation of the correction to the sharp inflation caused by WW I.\n\nOil prices reached their all-time low in the early 1930s as production began from the East Texas Oil Field, the largest field ever found in the lower 48 states. With the oil market oversupplied prices locally fell to below ten cents per barrel.\n\nIn the first three decades of the 20th century productivity and economic output surged due in part to electrification, mass production and the increasing motorization of transportation and farm machinery. Electrification and mass production techniques such as Fordism permanently lowered the demand for labor relative to economic output. By the late 1920s the resultant rapid growth in productivity and investment in manufacturing meant there was a considerable excess production capacity.\n\nSometime after the peak of the business cycle in 1923, more workers were displaced by productivity improvements than growth in the employment market could meet, causing unemployment to slowly rise after 1925. Also, the work week fell slightly in the decade prior to the depression. Wages did not keep up with productivity growth, which led to the problem of underconsumption.\n\nHenry Ford and Edward A. Filene were among prominent businessmen who were concerned with overproduction and underconsumption. Ford doubled wages of his workers in 1914. The over-production problem was also discussed in Congress, with Senator Reed Smoot proposing an import tariff, which became the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff was enacted in June, 1930. The tariff was misguided because the U.S. had been running a trade account surplus during the 1920s.\n\nAnother effect of rapid technological change was that after 1910 the rate of capital investment slowed, primarily due to reduced investment in business structures.\n\nThe depression led to additional large numbers of plant closings.\n\nIt cannot be emphasized too strongly that the [productivity, output and employment] trends we are describing are long-time trends and were thoroughly evident prior to 1929. These trends are in nowise the result of the present depression, nor are they the result of the World War. On the contrary, the present depression is a collapse resulting from these long-term trends. — M. King Hubbert\n\nIn the book \"Mechanization in Industry\", whose publication was sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Jerome (1934) noted that whether mechanization tends to increase output or displace labor depends on the elasticity of demand for the product. In addition, reduced costs of production were not always passed on to consumers. It was further noted that agriculture was adversely affected by the reduced need for animal feed as horses and mules were displaced by inanimate sources of power following WW I. As a related point, Jerome also notes that the term \"technological unemployment\" was being used to describe the labor situation during the depression.\n\nSome portion of the increased unemployment which characterized the post-War years in the United States may be attributed to the mechanization of industries producing commodities of inelastic demand. — Fredrick C. Wells, 1934\n\nThe dramatic rise in productivity of major industries in the U. S. and the effects of productivity on output, wages and the work week are discussed by a Brookings Institution sponsored book.\n\nCorporations decided to lay off workers and reduced the amount of raw materials they purchased to manufacture their products. This decision was made to cut the production of goods because of the amount of products that were not being sold.\n\nJoseph Stiglitz and Bruce Greenwald suggested that it was a productivity-shock in agriculture, through fertilizers, mechanization and improved seed, that caused the drop in agricultural product prices. Farmers were forced off the land, further adding to the excess labor supply.\n\nThe prices of agricultural products began to decline after WW I and eventually many farmers were forced out of business, causing the failure of hundreds of small rural banks. Agricultural productivity resulting from tractors, fertilizers and hybrid corn was only part of the problem; the other problem was the change over from horses and mules to internal combustion transportation. The horse and mule population began declining after WW 1, freeing up enormous quantities of land previously used for animal feed.\n\nThe rise of the internal combustion engine and increasing numbers of motorcars and buses also halted the growth of electric street railways.\n\nThe years 1929 to 1941 had the highest total factor productivity growth in the history of the U. S., largely due to the productivity increases in public utilities, transportation and trade.\n\nEconomists such as Waddill Catchings, William Trufant Foster, Rexford Tugwell, Adolph Berle (and later John Kenneth Galbraith), popularized a theory that had some influence on Franklin D. Roosevelt. This theory held that the economy produced more goods than consumers could purchase, because the consumers did not have enough income. According to this view, in the 1920s wages had increased at a lower rate than productivity growth, which had been high. Most of the benefit of the increased productivity went into profits, which went into the stock market bubble rather than into consumer purchases. Thus workers did not have enough income to absorb the large amount of capacity that had been added.\n\nAccording to this view, the root cause of the Great Depression was a global overinvestment while the level of wages and earnings from independent businesses fell short of creating enough purchasing power. It was argued that government should intervene by an increased taxation of the rich to help make income more equal. With the increased revenue the government could create public works to increase employment and 'kick start' the economy. In the USA the economic policies had been quite the opposite until 1932. The Revenue Act of 1932 and public works programmes introduced in Hoover's last year as president and taken up by Roosevelt, created some redistribution of purchasing power.\n\nThe stock market crash made it evident that banking systems Americans were relying on were not dependable. Americans looked towards insubstantial banking units for their own liquidity supply. As the economy began to fail, these banks were no longer able to support those who depended on their assets – they did not hold as much power as the larger banks. During the depression, \"three waves of bank failures shook the economy.\" The first wave came just when the economy was heading in the direction of recovery at the end of 1930 and the beginning of 1931. The second wave of bank failures occurred \"after the Federal Reserve System raised the rediscount rate to staunch an outflow of gold\" around the end of 1931. The last wave, which began in the middle of 1932, was the worst and most devastating, continuing \"almost to the point of a total breakdown of the banking system in the winter of 1932–1933.\" The reserve banks led the United States into an even deeper depression between 1931 and 1933, due to their failure to appreciate and put to use the powers they withheld – capable of creating money – as well as the \"inappropriate monetary policies pursued by them during these years\".\n\nAccording to the gold standard theory of the Depression, the Depression was largely caused by the decision of most western nations after World War I to return to the gold standard at the pre-war gold price. Monetary policy, according to this view, was thereby put into a deflationary setting that would over the next decade slowly grind away at the health of many European economies.\n\nThis post-war policy was preceded by an inflationary policy during World War I, when many European nations abandoned the gold standard, forced by the enormous costs of the war. This resulted in inflation because the supply of new money that was created was spent on war, not on investments in productivity to increase demand that would have neutralized inflation. The view is that the quantity of new money introduced largely determines the inflation rate, and therefore, the cure to inflation is to reduce the amount of new currency created for purposes that are destructive or wasteful, and do not lead to economic growth.\n\nAfter the war, when America and the nations of Europe went back on the gold standard, most nations decided to return to the gold standard at the pre-war price. When Britain, for example, passed the Gold Standard Act of 1925, thereby returning Britain to the gold standard, the critical decision was made to set the new price of the Pound Sterling at parity with the pre-war price even though the pound was then trading on the foreign exchange market at a much lower price. At the time, this action was criticized by John Maynard Keynes and others, who argued that in so doing, they were forcing a revaluation of wages without any tendency to equilibrium. Keynes' criticism of Winston Churchill's form of the return to the gold standard implicitly compared it to the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles.\n\nOne of the reasons for setting the currencies at parity with the pre-war price was the prevailing opinion at that time that deflation was not a danger, while inflation, particularly the inflation in the Weimar Republic, was an unbearable danger. Another reason was that those who had loaned in nominal amounts hoped to recover the same value in gold that they had lent. Because of the reparations that Germany had to pay France, Germany began a credit-fueled period of growth in order to export and sell enough goods abroad to gain gold to pay the reparations. The U.S., as the world's gold sink, loaned money to Germany to industrialize, which was then the basis for Germany paying back France, and France paying back loans to the U.K. and the U.S. This arrangement was codified in the Dawes Plan.\n\nIn some cases, deflation can be hard on sectors of the economy such as agriculture, if they are deeply in debt at high interest rates and are unable to refinance, or that are dependent upon loans to finance capital goods when low interest rates are not available. Deflation erodes the price of commodities while increasing the real liability of debt. Deflation is beneficial to those with assets in cash, and to those who wish to invest or purchase assets or loan money.\n\nMore recent research, by economists such as Temin, Ben Bernanke, and Barry Eichengreen, has focused on the constraints policy makers were under at the time of the Depression. In this view, the constraints of the inter-war gold standard magnified the initial economic shock and were a significant obstacle to any actions that would ameliorate the growing Depression. According to them, the initial destabilizing shock may have originated with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in the U.S., but it was the gold standard system that transmitted the problem to the rest of the world.\n\nAccording to their conclusions, during a time of crisis, policy makers may have wanted to loosen monetary and fiscal policy, but such action would threaten the countries' ability to maintain their obligation to exchange gold at its contractual rate. The gold standard required countries to maintain high interest rates to attract international investors who bought foreign assets with gold. Therefore, governments had their hands tied as the economies collapsed, unless they abandoned their currency's link to gold. Fixing the exchange rate of all countries on the gold standard ensured that the market for foreign exchange can only equilibrate through interest rates. As the Depression worsened, many countries started to abandon the gold standard, and those that abandoned it earlier suffered less from deflation and tended to recover more quickly.\n\nRichard Timberlake, economist of the free banking school and protégé of Milton Friedman, specifically addressed this stance in his paper \"Gold Standards and the Real Bills Doctrine in U.S. Monetary Policy\", wherein he argued that the Federal Reserve actually had plenty of lee-way under the gold standard, as had been demonstrated by the price stability policy of New York Fed governor Benjamin Strong, between 1923 and 1928. But when Strong died in late 1928, the faction that took over dominance of the Fed advocated a real bills doctrine, where all money had to be represented by physical goods. This policy, forcing a 30% deflation of the dollar that inevitably damaged the US economy, is stated by Timberlake as being arbitrary and avoidable, the existing gold standard having been capable of continuing without it:\n\nEconomic historians (especially Friedman and Schwartz) emphasize the importance of numerous bank failures. The failures were mostly in rural America. Structural weaknesses in the rural economy made local banks highly vulnerable. Farmers, already deeply in debt, saw farm prices plummet in the late 1920s and their implicit real interest rates on loans skyrocket.\n\nTheir land was already over-mortgaged (as a result of the 1919 bubble in land prices), and crop prices were too low to allow them to pay off what they owed. Small banks, especially those tied to the agricultural economy, were in constant crisis in the 1920s with their customers defaulting on loans because of the sudden rise in real interest rates; there was a steady stream of failures among these smaller banks throughout the decade.\n\nThe city banks also suffered from structural weaknesses that made them vulnerable to a shock. Some of the nation's largest banks were failing to maintain adequate reserves and were investing heavily in the stock market or making risky loans. Loans to Germany and Latin America by New York City banks were especially risky. In other words, the banking system was not well prepared to absorb the shock of a major recession.\n\nEconomists have argued that a liquidity trap might have contributed to bank failures.\n\nEconomists and historians debate how much responsibility to assign the Wall Street Crash of 1929. The timing was right; the magnitude of the shock to expectations of future prosperity was high. Most analysts believe the market in 1928–29 was a \"bubble\" with prices far higher than justified by fundamentals. Economists agree that somehow it shared some blame, but how much no one has estimated. Milton Friedman concluded, \"I don't doubt for a moment that the collapse of the stock market in 1929 played a role in the initial recession\".\n\nThe idea of owning government bonds initially became ideal to investors when Liberty Loan drives encouraged this possession in America during World War I. This strive for dominion persisted into the 1920s. After World War I, the United States became the world's creditor and was depended upon by many foreign nations. \"Governments from around the globe looked to Wall Street for loans\". Investors then started to depend on these loans for further investments. Chief counsel of the Senate Bank Committee, Ferdinand Pecora, disclosed that National City executives were also dependent on loans from a special bank fund as a safety net for their stock losses while American banker, Albert Wiggin, \"made millions selling short his own bank shares\".\n\nEconomist David Hume stated that the economy became imbalanced as the recession spread on an international scale. The cost of goods remained too high for too long during a time where there was less international trade. Policies set in selected countries to \"maintain the value of their currency\" resulted in an outcome of bank failures. Governments that continued to follow the gold standard were led into bank failure, meaning that it was the governments and central bankers that contributed as a stepping stool into the depression.\n\nThe debate has three sides: one group says the crash caused the depression by drastically lowering expectations about the future and by removing large sums of investment capital; a second group says the economy was slipping since summer 1929 and the crash ratified it; the third group says that in either scenario the crash could not have caused more than a recession. There was a brief recovery in the market into April 1930, but prices then started falling steadily again from there, not reaching a final bottom until July 1932. This was the largest long-term U.S. market decline by any measure. To move from a recession in 1930 to a deep depression in 1931–32, entirely different factors had to be in play.\n\nProtectionism, such as the American Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, is often indicated as a cause of the Great Depression, with countries enacting protectionist policies yielding a beggar thy neighbor result. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act was especially harmful to agriculture because it caused farmers to default on their loans. This event may have worsened or even caused the ensuing bank runs in the Midwest and West that caused the collapse of the banking system. A petition signed by over 1,000 economists was presented to the U.S. government warning that the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act would bring disastrous economic repercussions; however, this did not stop the act from being signed into law.\n\nGovernments around the world took various steps into spending less money on foreign goods such as: \"imposing tariffs, import quotas, and exchange controls\". These restrictions formed a lot of tension between trade nations, causing a major deduction during the depression. Not all countries enforced the same measures of protectionism. Some countries raised tariffs drastically and enforced severe restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, while other countries condensed \"trade and exchange restrictions only marginally\":\n\nIn a 1995 survey of American economic historians, two-thirds agreed that the Smoot-Hawley tariff act at least worsened the Great Depression. However, many economists believe that the Smoot-Hawley tariff act was not a major contributor to the great depression. Economist Paul Krugman holds that, \"Where protectionism really mattered was in preventing a recovery in trade when production recovered\". He cites a report by Barry Eichengreen and Douglas Irwin: Figure 1 in that report shows trade and production dropping together from 1929 to 1932, but production increasing faster than trade from 1932 to 1937. The authors argue that adherence to the gold standard forced many countries to resort to tariffs, when instead they should have devalued their currencies. Peter Temin argues that contrary the popular argument, the contractionary effect of the tariff was small. He notes that exports were 7 percent of GNP in 1929, they fell by 1.5 percent of 1929 GNP in the next two years and the fall was offset by the increase in domestic demand from tariff.\n\nWhen the war came to an end in 1918, all European nations that had been allied with the U.S. owed large sums of money to American banks, sums much too large to be repaid out of their shattered treasuries. This is one reason why the Allies had insisted (to the consternation of Woodrow Wilson) on reparation payments from Germany and Austria–Hungary. Reparations, they believed, would provide them with a way to pay off their own debts. However, Germany and Austria-Hungary were themselves in deep economic trouble after the war; they were no more able to pay the reparations than the Allies to pay their debts.\n\nThe debtor nations put strong pressure on the U.S. in the 1920s to forgive the debts, or at least reduce them. The American government refused. Instead, U.S. banks began making large loans to the nations of Europe. Thus, debts (and reparations) were being paid only by augmenting old debts and piling up new ones. In the late 1920s, and particularly after the American economy began to weaken after 1929, the European nations found it much more difficult to borrow money from the U.S. At the same time, high U.S. tariffs were making it much more difficult for them to sell their goods in U.S. markets. Without any source of revenue from foreign exchange to repay their loans, they began to default.\n\nBeginning late in the 1920s, European demand for U.S. goods began to decline. That was partly because European industry and agriculture were becoming more productive, and partly because some European nations (most notably Weimar Germany) were suffering serious financial crises and could not afford to buy goods overseas. However, the central issue causing the destabilization of the European economy in the late 1920s was the international debt structure that had emerged in the aftermath of World War I.\n\nThe high tariff walls such as the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act critically impeded the payment of war debts. As a result of high U.S. tariffs, only a sort of cycle kept the reparations and war-debt payments going. During the 1920s, the former allies paid the war-debt installments to the U.S. chiefly with funds obtained from German reparations payments, and Germany was able to make those payments only because of large private loans from the U.S. and Britain. Similarly, U.S. investments abroad provided the dollars, which alone made it possible for foreign nations to buy U.S. exports.\n\nThe Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act was instituted by Senator Reed Smoot and Representative Willis C. Hawley, and signed into law by President Hoover, to raise taxes on American imports by about 20 percent during June 1930. This tax, which added to already shrinking income and overproduction in the U.S., only benefitted Americans in having to spend less on foreign goods. In contrast, European trading nations frowned upon this tax increase, particularly since the \"United States was an international creditor and exports to the U.S. market were already declining\". In response to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, some of America's primary producers and largest trading partner, Canada, chose to seek retribution by increasing the financial value of imported goods favoured by the Americans.\n\nIn the scramble for liquidity that followed the 1929 stock market crash, funds flowed back from Europe to America, and Europe's fragile economies crumbled.\n\nBy 1931, the world was reeling from the worst depression of recent memory, and the entire structure of reparations and war debts collapsed.\n\nIn 1939, prominent economist Alvin Hansen discussed the decline in population growth in relation to the Depression.\nThe same idea was discussed in a 1978 journal article by Clarence Barber, an economist at the University of Manitoba. Using \"a form of the Harrod model\" to analyze the Depression, Barber states:\n\nBarber says, while there is \"no clear evidence\" of a decline in \"the rate of growth of productivity\" during the 1920s, there is \"clear evidence\" the population growth rate began to decline during that same period. He argues the decline in population growth rate may have caused a decline in \"the natural rate of growth\" which was significant enough to cause a serious depression.\n\nBarber says a decline in the population growth rate is likely to affect the demand for housing, and claims this is apparently what happened during the 1920s. He concludes:\n\nThe decline in housing construction that can be attributed to demographics has been estimated to range from 28% in 1933 to 38% in 1940.\n\nAmong the causes of the decline in the population growth rate during the 1920s were a declining birth rate after 1910 and reduced immigration. The decline in immigration was largely the result of legislation in the 1920s placing greater restrictions on immigration. In 1921, Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act, followed by the Immigration Act of 1924.\n\nFactors that majorly contributed to the failing of the economy since 1925, was a decrease in both residential and non-residential buildings being constructed. It was the debt as a result of the war, less families being formed, and an imbalance of mortgage payments and loans in 1928–29 that mainly contributed to the decline in the number of houses being built. This (What?) caused the population growth rate to decelerate(How?). Though non-residential units continued to be built \"at a high rate throughout the decade\", the demand for such units was actually very low\n\nThere is an ongoing debate between historians as to what extent President Calvin Coolidge's laissez-faire hands-off attitude has contributed to the Great Depression. Despite a growing rate of bank failures he did not heed voices that predicted the lack of banking regulation as potentially dangerous. He did not listen to members of Congress warning that stock speculation had gone too far and he ignored criticisms that workers did not participate sufficiently in the prosperity of the Roaring Twenties.\n\nFrom the point of view of today's mainstream schools of economic thought, government should strive to keep some broad nominal aggregate on a stable growth path (for proponents of new classical macroeconomics and monetarism, the measure is the nominal money supply; for Keynesian economists it is the nominal aggregate demand itself). During a depression the central bank should pour liquidity into the banking system and the government should cut taxes and accelerate spending in order to keep the nominal money stock and total nominal demand from collapsing.\n\nThe United States government and the Federal Reserve did not do that during the 1929‑32 slide into the Great Depression The existence of \"liquidationism\" played a key part in motivating public policy decisions not to fight the gathering Great Depression. An increasingly common view among economic historians is that the adherence of some Federal Reserve policymakers to the liquidationist thesis led to disastrous consequences. Regarding the policies of President Hoover, economists Barry Eichengreen and J. Bradford DeLong point out that the Hoover administration's fiscal policy was guided by liquidationist economists and policy makers, as Hoover tried to keep the federal budget balanced until 1932, when Hoover lost confidence in his Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon and replaced him. Hoover wrote in his memoirs he did not side with the liquidationists, but took the side of those in his cabinet with \"economic responsibility\", his Secretary of Commerce Robert P. Lamont and Secretary of Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde, who advised the President to \"use the powers of government to cushion the situation\". But at the same time he kept Andrew Mellon as Secretary of the Treasury until February 1932. It was during 1932 that Hoover began to support more aggressive measures to combat the Depression. In his memoirs, President Hoover wrote bitterly about members of his Cabinet who had advised inaction during the downslide into the Great Depression:\n\nBefore the \"Keynesian Revolution\", such a liquidationist theory was a common position for economists to take and was held and advanced by economists like Friedrich Hayek, Lionel Robbins Joseph Schumpeter, Seymour Harris and others. According to the liquidationists a depression is good medicine. The function of a depression is to liquidate failed investments and businesses that have been made obsolete by technological development in order to release factors of production (capital and labor) from unproductive uses. These can then be redeployed in other sectors of the technologically dynamic economy. They asserted that deflationary policy minimized the duration of the Depression of 1920–21 by tolerating liquidation which subsequently created economic growth later in the decade. They pushed for deflationary policies (which were already executed in 1921) which – in their opinion – would assist the release of capital and labor from unproductive activities to lay the groundwork for a new economic boom. The liquidationists argued that even if self-adjustment of the economy took mass bankruptcies, then so be it. Postponing the liquidation process would only magnify the social costs. Schumpeter wrote that it\n\nDespite liquidationist expectations, a large proportion of the capital stock was not redeployed and vanished during the first years of the Great Depression. According to a study by Olivier Blanchard and Lawrence Summers, the recession caused a drop of net capital accumulation to pre-1924 levels by 1933.\n\nEconomists such as John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman suggested that the do-nothing policy prescription which resulted from the liquidationist theory contributed to deepening the Great Depression. With the rhetoric of ridicule Keynes tried to discredit the liquidationist view in presenting Hayek, Robbins and Schumpeter as\n\nMilton Friedman stated that at the University of Chicago such \"dangerous nonsense\" was never taught and that he understood why at Harvard —where such nonsense was taught— bright young economists rejected their teachers' macroeconomics, and become Keynesians. He wrote:\n\nEconomist Lawrence White, while acknowledging that Hayek and Robbins did not actively oppose the deflationary policy of the early 1930s, nevertheless challenges the argument of Milton Friedman, J. Bradford DeLong et al. that Hayek was a proponent of liquidationism. White argues that the business cycle theory of Hayek and Robbins (which later developed into Austrian business cycle theory in its present-day form) was actually not consistent with a monetary policy which permitted a severe contraction of the money supply. Nevertheless, White says that at the time of the Great Depression Hayek \"expressed ambivalence about the shrinking nomimal income and sharp deflation in 1929–32\". In a talk in 1975, Hayek admitted the mistake he made over forty years earlier in not opposing the Central Bank's deflationary policy and stated the reason why he had been \"ambivalent\": \"At that time I believed that a process of deflation of some short duration might break the rigidity of wages which I thought was incompatible with a functioning economy.\" 1979 Hayek strongly criticized the Fed's contractionary monetary policy early in the Depression and its failure to offer banks liquidity:\n\nHistorians gave Hoover credit for working tirelessly to combat the depression and noted that he left government prematurely aged. But his policies are rated as simply not far-reaching enough to address the Great Depression. He was prepared to do something, but nowhere near enough. Hoover was no exponent of laissez-faire. But his principal philosophies were voluntarism, self-help, and rugged individualism. He refused direct federal intervention. He believed that government should do more than his immediate predecessors (Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge) believed. But he was not willing to go as far as Franklin D. Roosevelt later did. Therefore, he is described as the \"first of the new presidents\" and \"the last of the old\".\n\nHoover's first measures were based on voluntarism by businesses not to reduce their workforce or cut wages. But businesses had little choice and wages were reduced, workers were laid off, and investments postponed. The Hoover administration extended over $100 million in emergency farm loans and some $915 million in public works projects between 1930 and 1932. Hoover urged bankers to set up the National Credit Corporation so that big banks could help failing banks survive. But bankers were reluctant to invest in failing banks, and the National Credit Corporation did almost nothing to address the problem. In 1932 Hoover reluctantly established the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a Federal agency with the authority to lend up to $2 billion to rescue banks and restore confidence in financial institutions. But $2 billion was not enough to save all the banks, and bank runs and bank failures continued.\n\nJ. Bradford DeLong explained that Hoover would have been a budget cutter in normal times and continuously wanted to balance the budget. Hoover held the line against powerful political forces that sought to increase government spending after the Depression began for fully two and a half years. During the first two years of the Depression (1929 and 1930) Hoover actually achieved budget surpluses of about 0.8% of gross domestic product (GDP). In 1931, when the recession significantly worsened and GDP declined by 15%, the federal budget had only a small deficit of 0.6% of GDP. It was not until 1932 (when GDP declined by 27% compared to 1929-level) that Hoover pushed for measures (Reconstruction Finance Corporation, Federal Home Loan Bank Act, direct loans to fund state Depression relief programs) that increased spending. But at the same time he pushed for the Revenue Act of 1932 that massively increased taxes in order to balance the budget again.\n\nUncertainty was a major factor, argued by several economists, that contributed to the worsening and length of the depression. It was also said to be responsible \"for the initial decline in consumption that marks the\" beginning of the Great Depression by economists Paul R. Flacco and Randall E. Parker. Economist Ludwig Lachmann argues that it was pessimism that prevented the recovery and worsening of the depression President Hoover is said to have been blinded from what was right in front of him.\n\nEconomist James Deusenberry argues economic imbalance was not only a result of World War I, but also of the structural changes made during the first quarter of the Twentieth Century. He also states the branches of the nation's economy became smaller, there was not much demand for housing, and the stock market crash \"had a more direct impact on consumption than any previous financial panic\"\n\nEconomist William A. Lewis describes the conflict between America and its primary producers:\n\nThe stock market crash was not the first sign of the Great Depression. \"Long before the crash, community banks were failing at the rate of one per day\". It was the development of the Federal Reserve System that misled investors in the 1920s into relying on federal banks as a safety net. They were encouraged to continue buying stocks and to overlook any of the fluctuations. Economist Roger Babson tried to warn the investors of the deficiency to come, but was ridiculed even as the economy began to deteriorate during the summer of 1929. While England and Germany struggled under the strain on gold currencies after the war, economists were blinded by an unsustainable 'new economy' they sought to be considerably stable and successful.\n\nSince the United States decided to no longer comply with the gold standard, \"the value of the dollar could change freely from day to day\". Although this imbalance on an international scale led to crisis, the economy within the nation remained stable.\n\nThe depression then affected all nations on an international scale. \"The German mark collapsed when the chancellor put domestic politics ahead of sensible finance; the bank of England abandoned the gold standard after a subsequent speculative attack; and the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its discount rate dramatically in October 1931 to preserve the value of the dollar\". The Federal Reserve drove the American economy into an even deeper depression.\n\nIn 1929 the Hoover administration responded to the economic crises by temporarily lowering income tax rates and the corporate tax rate. At the beginning of 1931, tax returns showed a tremendous decline in income due to the economic downturn. Income tax receipts were 40% less than in 1930. At the same time government spending proved to be a lot greater than estimated. As a result, the budget deficit increased tremendously. While Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon urged to increase taxes, Hoover had no desire to do so since 1932 was an election year. In December 1931, hopes that the economic downturn would come to an end vanished since all economic indicators pointed to a continuing downward trend. On January 7, 1932, Andrew Mellon announced that the Hoover administration would end a further increase in public debt by raising taxes. On June 6, 1932, the Revenue Act of 1932 was signed into law.\n\nRoosevelt won the 1932 presidential election promising to promote recovery with a New Deal for the American people.\nHe enacted a series of programs, including Social Security, banking reform, and suspension of the gold standard. The majority of historians and economists argue that the New Deal was beneficial to recovery, however some argue that it prolonged the Great Depression.\n\nIn a survey of economic historians conducted by Robert Whaples, Professor of Economics at Wake Forest University, anonymous questionnaires were sent to members of the \"Economic History Association\". Members were asked to either \"disagree\", \"agree\", or \"agree with provisos\" with the statement that read: \"Taken as a whole, government policies of the New Deal served to lengthen and deepen the Great Depression.\" While only 6% of economic historians who worked in the history department of their universities agreed with the statement, 27% of those that work in the economics department agreed. Almost an identical percent of the two groups (21% and 22%) agreed with the statement \"with provisos\" (a conditional stipulation), while 74% of those who worked in the history department, and 51% in the economic department disagreed with the statement outright.\n\nAccording to Peter Temin, Barry Wigmore, Gauti B. Eggertsson and Christina Romer the biggest primary impact of the New Deal on the economy and the key to recovery and to end the Great Depression was brought about by a successful management of public expectations. Before the first New Deal measures people expected a contractionary economic situation (recession, deflation) to persist. Roosevelt's fiscal and monetary policy regime change helped to make his policy objectives credible. Expectations changed towards an expansionary development (economic growth, inflation). The expectation of higher future income and higher future inflation stimulated demand and investments. The analysis suggests that the elimination of the policy dogmas of the gold standard, balanced budget and small government led to a large shift in expectation that accounts for about 70–80 percent of the recovery of output and prices from 1933 to 1937. If the regime change would not have happened and the Hoover policy would have continued, the economy would have continued its free fall in 1933, and output would have been 30 percent lower in 1937 than in 1933.\n\nIn the new classical macroeconomics view of the Great Depression large negative shocks caused the 1929–33 downturn – including monetary shocks, productivity shocks, and banking shocks – but those developments become positive after 1933 due to monetary and banking reform policies. According to the model Cole-Ohanian impose, the main culprits for the prolonged depression were labor frictions and productivity/efficiency frictions (perhaps, to a lesser extent). Financial frictions are unlikely to have caused the prolonged slump.\n\nIn the Cole-Ohanian model there is a slower than normal recovery which they explain by New Deal policies which they evaluated as tending towards monopoly and distribution of wealth. The key economic paper looking at these diagnostic sources in relation to the Great Depression is Cole and Ohanian's work. Cole-Ohanian point at two policies of New Deal: the National Industrial Recovery Act and National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the latter strengthening NIRA's labor provision. According to Cole-Ohanian New Deal policies created cartelization, high wages, and high prices in at least manufacturing and some energy and mining industries. Roosevelts policies against the severity of the Depression like the NIRA, a \"code of fair competition\" for each industry were aimed to reduce cutthroat competition in a period of severe deflation, which was seen as the cause for lowered demand and employment. The NIRA suspended antitrust laws and permitted collusion in some sectors provided that industry raised wages above clearing level and accepted collective bargaining with labor unions. The effects of cartelization can be seen as the basic effect of monopoly. The given corporation produces too little, charges too high of a price, and under-employs labor. Likewise, an increase in the power of unions creates a situation similar to monopoly. Wages are too high for the union members, so the corporation employs fewer people and, produces less output. Cole-Ohanian show that 60% of the difference between the trend and realized output is due to cartelization and unions. Chari, Kehoe, McGrattan also present a nice exposition that's in line with Cole-Ohanian. .\n\nThis type of analysis has numerous counterarguments including the applicability of the equilibrium business cycle to the Great Depression.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6050113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6050113", "title": "Ceylonese parliamentary election, 1956", "text": "Ceylonese parliamentary election, 1956\n\nGeneral elections were held in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) in 1956. They were a watershed in the country's political history, and was the first elections fought to challenge the ruling United National Party. The former Leader of the House, S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike who was passed over after the death of the first Prime Minister D.S. Senanayake, crossed over to the opposition to form the Sri Lanka Freedom Party to launch his bid for Prime Minister.\n\nThe UNP government of John Kotelawala had been rapidly losing steam. It faced widespread criticism over Ceylon's poor economic performance. Meanwhile, the Sri Lanka Freedom Party now championed a popular socialist platform, calling for English to be replaced by Sinhala as the island's official language.\n\nThe UNP resisted this out of deference to Ceylon's Tamil minority, but changed its position in early 1956. This only served to cost the UNP its Tamil support while gaining it little among the Sinhalese.\n\nThe Lanka Sama Samaja Party and the Communist Party campaigned for parity of status between Sinhala and Tamil, with both to jointly replace English as the official language.\n\nThe Tamil parties campaigned to keep English as the official language.\n\nSLFP leader S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike assembled a coalition with a group of small Marxist parties to form the Mahajana Eksath Peramuna.\n\nBandaranaike's coalition obtained a solid majority government and he became prime minister.\n\nThe SLFP campaign of 1956 was the first in Ceylon's history where communal feelings against the minority Tamil community were deliberately stirred up by Sinhalese politicians for electoral gain. The SLFP tried to blame the high unemployment Sinhalese youth faced, on the Tamils, and in effect promised not to correct injustices but to openly discriminate against Tamils via a policy of official unilingualism.\n\nThe hard feelings from this campaign contributed towards the eruption, nearly three decades later, of the path to civil war.\n\nHowever, it also changed the character of politics in the country from the elitism that had characterised it hitherto. Members of Parliament from other parties than the Left were middle class, working class or farmers. Henceforth electorates were addressed in their mother tongue at election meetings (as the LSSP and CP had done from inception) instead of English.\n\n"}
{"id": "32122694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32122694", "title": "Curse of 39", "text": "Curse of 39\n\nThe curse of 39 is the belief, in some parts of Afghanistan, that the number 39 is cursed or a badge of shame as it is purportedly linked with prostitution.\n\nThe number 39 has somehow become lodged in the Afghan popular imagination as a sign of pimping and prostitution, but it has widely been claimed to have been associated with a pimp, allegedly living in the western city of Herat, who was nicknamed \"39\" after the registration plate of his expensive car and the number of his apartment. The number is said to translate into \"morda-gow\", literally meaning \"dead cow\" but a well-known slang term for a pimp. Others have blamed corrupt police officials for spreading the rumour in order to charge between $200–$500 to change a \"39\" plate.\n\nOfficials have, in turn, blamed car dealers and \"those who work for the mafia [who] started the rumours about 39 so they could buy cars with 39 plates cheaper and sell them back for higher prices after changing the plates\", according to Abdul Qader Samoonwal of Kabul's Traffic and License Registration department. The problem is made worse by the fact that Afghanistan is a largely illiterate country in which rumours and superstitions thrive.\n\nVehicle registration plates incorporating the number are seen as so undesirable that vehicles and apartments bearing the numerals are said to be virtually unsellable in the capital, Kabul. The drivers of such vehicles have reported receiving abuse and derision from pedestrians and other drivers, and some have had their registration plates altered to disguise the numbers. One such driver, Zalmay Ahmadi, told \"The Guardian\": \"[W]hen I drive around all the other cars flash their lights, beep their horns and people point at me. All my classmates now call me Colonel 39.\"\n\nA taxi driver, Ahmad Ghafor, said that he found that \"it gets worse when I have women customers in the car. Other drivers signal to me or blow their horn saying 'shall we pay you to drop these ladies to my place?'\"\n\nThe issue caused particular problems in Kabul after the Persian New Year of March 2011, as the government started to issue registration plates beginning with 39. (To compound the problem, this happened to be 1390 in the Iranian calendar). Despite the threat of penalties, many drivers refused to register their cars while the number 39 still appeared on them.\n\nCellphone owners have encountered similar problems, forcing them to hide their caller ID or switch their numbers altogether. One man with \"39\" in his phone number told the BBC: \"I receive lots of anonymous calls asking if I have got prostitutes. I am known as Mr 39 amongst my friends.\"\n\nSome 39-year-old Afghans are said to refer to themselves as being \"one less than 40\" or \"one year to 40.\" During the 2010 parliamentary elections, one candidate, Mullah Tarakhil, had the misfortune to be listed 39th on the ballot; two people were killed when his guards opened fire on civilians after a traffic accident, said to have been in reaction to people taunting the candidate over his number.\n\nAfghan government officials and numerologists have tried to scotch the claims about 39, though with little success. Gen. Assadullah, the head of the traffic department in Kabul, described the problem as \"nonsense\" as 39 is \"just a number.\" He noted that there is no religious prohibition against the number and his department has sought to reassure the public by noting where Muslims can find the number 39 in the Quran and even publishing a formula by which the number can be derived from the name \"Allah.\"\n\nSediq Afghan, a famous numerologist, has likewise complained that people \"only see the negative side\" of the number and has called it \"a sickness for Afghans\". He told television viewers that associating the number with pimps \"is a sin because 57 Suras from our Quran contain the number 39.\" The popular television satire show \"Danger Bell\" highlighted the issue but only succeeded in publicising it even further.\n\nSome car dealers have been able to profit from it, as the problem exists mainly in Kabul; one dealer told \"The Wall Street Journal\" that he \"could knock several thousand dollars off the purchase price of a car in Kabul with 39 on its plate and then turn around to sell it for a profit in the surrounding provinces.\"\n\nOwners of vehicles with \"39\" in their registration plates have sought to fix the problem themselves. Many have \"edited\" their own plates by painting or taping over the offending digits, or altering them to make the number 3 look like an 8, or even covering over the entire plate. One driver told NPR: \"I have no choice but to drive this car since I earn my living working here. But I have to cover the 39 plate with a blue sheet. I do this to protect the dignity of this organization and also of myself.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52599329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52599329", "title": "David M. Friedman", "text": "David M. Friedman\n\nDavid Melech Friedman (born August 8, 1958) is an American bankruptcy lawyer and the United States Ambassador to Israel. He joined the law firm Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman (then known as Kasowitz, Hoff, Benson & Torres) in 1994, where he met and represented Donald Trump, then chairman and president of The Trump Organization. He served as an advisor to Trump during his successful presidential campaign. In December 2016, President-elect Trump's transition team announced that Friedman was Trump's nominee for ambassador. His nomination was met with support from conservative Israeli and Jewish American activist groups, and opposition from liberal advocacy organizations, particularly J Street. He was confirmed by the full Senate on March 23, 2017, with a 52–46 vote, officially sworn in by Vice President Mike Pence on March 29 and presented his credentials on May 15.\n\nFriedman was one of four children born to Morris S. Friedman (d. 2005), a Temple Hillel rabbi and Addi Friedman, a high school English teacher. He grew up in North Woodmere, New York. His father was a rabbi at Temple Hillel, a Conservative synagogue in North Woodmere, and served as the head of the New York Board of Rabbis. His mother was a high school English teacher.\n\nHe graduated from Hebrew Academy of Nassau County (HANC) high school in 1974, and earned his bachelor's degree in anthropology from Columbia University, graduating in 1978, and his law degree from New York University School of Law, graduating in 1981. He has been a member of the New York State Bar Association since 1982.\n\nIn 1994, he left the now-defunct law firm Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon to form the bankruptcy practice at Kasowitz, Hoff, Benson & Torres. Friedman was promoted to name partner in 1995, and the firm was renamed Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman. As the head of the creditors' rights and bankruptcy practice group, Friedman advised and represented Donald Trump and The Trump Organization in bankruptcies involving his Atlantic City casinos.\n\nFriedman volunteered to head American Friends of Bet El Institutions, an organization that advocates against a two-state solution to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and provides around $2 million per year to the Israeli settlement Bet El. The organization also received donations from the family foundation of Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law. In 1999, Friedman dedicated the Friedman Faculty House. The settlement runs the Israeli newspaper \"Arutz Sheva\", where Friedman is a columnist. In his writings and statements, Friedman repeatedly argued in support of Israeli settlements, declaring them legal. He has also contributed to United Hatzalah (\"united rescue\"), an Israeli organization that provides emergency medical services, and Aleh Negev, a village for disabled Bedouin and Jewish people in southern Israel.\n\nFriedman advised Trump on Israel-related and Jewish issues during his presidential campaign, co-chairing Trump's Israel Advisory Committee along with Jason D. Greenblatt, an executive vice president for The Trump Organization. During the presidential election, he donated a total of $50,000 to the Trump campaign and the Republican National Committee. Four days prior to the election, Friedman and Greenblatt released a joint statement promising to move the U.S. embassy in Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, one of Trump's campaign promises. Other presidential candidates, including Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, and Hillary Clinton, had also promised to move the embassy to Jerusalem during their campaigns. Moving the embassy would be a significant departure from U.S. policy. Since the end of the Six-Day War in 1967, the U.S. officially maintained that Jerusalem's final status should be decided by direct negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians; it did not recognize Jerusalem as Israeli territory. Relocation would be in accordance with the Jerusalem Embassy Act, passed by Congress in 1995, which required moving the embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem by May 31, 1999. The executive branch has consistently waived implementation of the act, arguing it would have a negative impact on national security. On June 1, 2017, in accordance with his predecessors, President Trump signed an executive order keeping the embassy in Tel Aviv instead of relocating it to Jerusalem. However, on December 6, 2017, President Trump reversed course and issued a \"Presidential Proclamation Recognizing Jerusalem as the Capital of the State of Israel and Relocating the United States Embassy to Israel to Jerusalem.\"\n\nOn December 15, 2016, the transition team of President-elect Donald Trump announced that Friedman had been selected to be the nominee as the United States Ambassador to Israel. Friedman's nomination was controversial; some American Jewish, Israeli, and Palestinian individuals and advocacy groups argued against his nomination. Saeb Erekat, chief negotiator for the Palestinian Authority, said that moving the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem and annexing West Bank settlements would lead to the \"destruction of the peace process\" and send the region down a path of \"chaos, lawlessness, and extremism\". Friedman had said in an interview for \"Haaretz\" during the campaign that Trump would be open to Israel annexing parts of the West Bank. The U.S. has opposed Israeli settlements in the West Bank since 1967.\n\nThe liberal advocacy organization J Street \"vehemently opposed\" Friedman's nomination. During the presidential campaign, Friedman had attacked J Street supporters, writing in \"Arutz Sheva\" in May 2016:\n\nAre J Street supporters really as bad as kapos? The answer, actually, is no. They are far worse than kapos—Jews who turned in their fellow Jews in the Nazi death camps. The kapos faced extraordinary cruelty and who knows what any of us would have done under those circumstances to save a loved one? But J Street? They are just smug advocates of Israel's destruction delivered from the comfort of their secure American sofas—it's hard to imagine anyone worse. \n\nWhen asked about his comments on J Street at the Saban Forum in early December, Friedman had stood by his statements, saying that J Street supporters were \"not Jewish, and they're not pro-Israel\". The advocacy organizations Americans for Peace Now, Ameinu, the Israel Policy Forum, and the New Israel Fund also opposed the nomination. Six Democratic members of the House of Representatives, including Jewish representatives Jan Schakowsky, Jerrold Nadler, John Yarmuth, and Steve Cohen, urged their colleagues in the Senate to vote against Friedman.\n\nFive former United States Ambassadors to Israel – Thomas Pickering, William Harrop, Edward Walker Jr., Daniel Kurtzer, and James Cunningham – signed a letter declaring Friedman unqualified.\n\nOther Jewish and Israeli groups and individuals supported Friedman's nomination. Nathan Diament, executive director for public policy at the Orthodox Union, commended Trump for the nomination as a change in the relationship between Israel and the United States from the relationship under the Obama administration. Morton Klein, president of the Zionist Organization of America, said Friedman \"has the potential to be the greatest US Ambassador to Israel ever\". The Republican Jewish Coalition and Rabbi Yechiel Eckstein, founder and president of the International Fellowship of Christians and Jews, both supported the nomination. Israeli politicians Tzipi Hotovely, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dani Dayan, the Consul General of Israel in New York, and Minister of Education Naftali Bennett all praised Friedman and welcomed his nomination. The Yesha Council, the umbrella organization governing West Bank settlements, also supported the nomination, saying Friedman had a \"deep love for all of the land and people of Israel, including those in Judea and Samaria,\" the Biblical names of the area of land which is referred to internationally as the West Bank.\n\nFriedman's confirmation hearing was held on February 16, 2017. The hearing was contentious; protesters from Americans Muslims for Palestine and the Jewish group IfNotNow were arrested after interrupting the proceedings several times. Friedman said he believed a two-state solution is the best way to resolve the conflict. He had previously questioned the need for it, stating as a representative for the Trump campaign, \"a two-state solution is not a priority ... A two-state solution is a way, but it's not the only way.\" He had also called it a \"scam\" and a \"damaging anachronism\" in a February 2016 column for \"Arutz Sheva\". He also agreed to sell off his business interests in the region and end his support for the expansion of Israeli settlements. He apologized for his past language towards J Street, maintaining his differences of opinion with the organization. Yael Patir, the Israel director of J Street, did not accept the apology.\n\nSeveral Democratic members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee criticized Friedman's fitness for the position, while the Republican members generally expressed their support. On March 9, 2017, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved his nomination in a 12–9 vote. All Republicans voted in favor, along with Democrat Bob Menendez from New Jersey. Friedman was officially confirmed on March 23. All Democratic and independent senators except Bob Menendez and Joe Manchin, from West Virginia, voted against him. 50 out of 52 Republican senators voted for him; two Republicans did not vote. On March 29, Vice President Mike Pence officially administered the oath of office, swearing in Friedman. He succeeded Leslie Tsou, who served as the interim chargé d'affaires after Daniel Shapiro left the position on January 20.\n\nFriedman became the U.S. ambassador to Israel on May 15, 2017 when he presented his credentials to Israeli President Reuven Rivlin.\n\nFriedman is an Orthodox Jew and is fluent in Hebrew. He has been married to his wife, Tammy Deborah Sand, since 1981. They have five children and seven grandchildren. Friedman's daughter, Talia Friedman, immigrated to Israel and officially became an Israeli citizen on August 15, 2017. In 1984, Friedman met President Ronald Reagan when Reagan visited Temple Hillel. Reagan was the first sitting president since George Washington to visit a synagogue. Friedman became friends with Donald Trump in 2005, after Trump paid him a condolence call during his sitting shiva for his father.\n\n"}
{"id": "48795582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48795582", "title": "Death of Tina Fontaine", "text": "Death of Tina Fontaine\n\nTina Michelle Fontaine (January 1, 1999 – ) was a First Nations (Indigenous) girl who died in August 2014. Her case is considered among the high number of missing and murdered Indigenous women of Canada. Her death renewed calls by activists for the government to conduct a national inquiry into the issue.\n\nIdentified early as a suspect, Raymond Joseph Cormier was charged in December 2015 with her murder. Cormier was acquitted by a jury in February 2018. Under new Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in 2015, the government committed to creating an independent national inquiry into the issue of murders and violence against Indigenous women, which was started in 2017.\n\nFontaine was raised by her great-aunt for most of her life; they lived on the Sagkeeng First Nation, 121 km northeast Winnipeg, Manitoba.\n\nHer father, Eugene, had been beaten to death in 2011. His two assailants received manslaughter convictions. Fontaine's aunt recalled that her father's violent death deeply affected the girl. \"She was very hurt, very lost. That's when she drifted away.\" She went to Winnipeg.\n\nFontaine was in the care of Manitoba Child and Family Services (CFS) when she was reported missing to Winnipeg Police Service on July 31, 2014. Her aunt, Lana, later said that Fontaine had stayed with her during the August long weekend (August 1–3). On August 5, Fontaine telephoned her CFS worker and was subsequently picked up by members of CFS and Winnipeg Police Service. What happened to Fontaine between August 5 and August 8 is unclear, but she remained a missing youth. At 3 a.m. on August 8, police Constables Brock Jansen and Craig Houle encountered her in a truck with an allegedly drunk driver, but did not take her into custody, even though she was known to be missing.\n\nAt 4 a.m., she was found passed out in an alleyway near Ellice Avenue and was escorted to hospital and treated before being checked into the Best Western Charterhouse hotel, which she soon left. She was reported missing again on August 9.\n\nAt around 1:30 p.m. on August 17, a body was found wrapped in plastic and a duvet cover and weighed down with rocks in the Red River. The body was identified as that of Fontaine the following day. Police believe she had died on or around August 10.\n\nA young woman who claimed to have been with Fontaine shortly before she disappeared told CBC News of events that happened in the hours leading up to her disappearance. Identified by CBC News as \"Katrina\", she said that after she met Fontaine between 10 and 11 p.m. on August 7, they went to eat at the Macdonald Youth Services emergency shelter at around 2:30 a.m. Believing Fontaine was drunk, Katrina requested the shelter staff keep her overnight, but Fontaine refused to stay, and refused to give her name. After seeing her get into the truck and the encounter with the police, Katrina lost contact with Fontaine until around 8 p.m., after Fontaine left the hotel where she was staying. At around 3 a.m. the following morning, the two young women were approached on Ellice Avenue by a man who offered Fontaine money to perform a sex act. She accepted and left with the man. Katrina followed them but lost sight of the two in the dark.\n\nIn response to Fontaine's death, the Canadian Human Rights Commission requested a full inquiry into the number of missing and murdered Indigenous women in Canada. The RCMP already had such a study underway, which was completed in 2014. Acting chief commissioner David Langtry wrote, \"Once again our hearts are filled with grief and sadness as we mourn the brutal and senseless murder of an Aboriginal girl. Tina must not disappear into the oblivion of statistics.\"\n\nIn response to the death, a volunteer group known as Drag the Red was formed. They have begun to regularly drag portions of the Red River, in order to find bodies or evidence. Additionally, a local Inuit woman, Holly Jarrett, has started social media campaigns: the #AmINext hashtag and a Change.org petition in response to Fontaine's death. The hashtag campaign called for a national inquiry and allowed Indigenous women to express their feelings about the issue of missing and murdered Indigenous women.\n\nFontaine was buried on Sagkeeng First Nation next to her father. A memorial was placed at the site on the first anniversary of the discovery of her body at the Red River.\n\nRaymond Joseph Cormier was charged with Fontaine's murder in December 2015.\n\nWith the change in government, in December 2016 Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced that a national inquiry titled \"Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls\" would be undertaken. Five independent commissioners were appointed, and commissioners and staff began to consult with families, activist organizations, and others about how to structure the inquiry.\n\nConstables Jansen and Houle were suspended for their actions and left the police force.\n\nOn February 28, 2018, the Justice for our Stolen Children Camp was set up on Wascana Park in Regina in response to the death of Tina Fontaine and Colten Boushie.\n\nIn March 2018, political activist Indygo Arscott held a rally outside Toronto City Hall to voice outrage in memory of Fontaine due to Cormier being found not guilty of the crime.\n\nThe trial began January 29, 2018. Raymond Cormier pled not guilty to second degree murder charges. The government did not introduce any forensic evidence or eyewitnesses directly linking Cormier to Tina's death. At the time of the trial, the cause of death remained undetermined. Cormier's lawyers argued that without a determination on the cause of death, it cannot be known for certain that Tina died as a result of an unlawful act, and Cormier should be acquitted \"on that [argument] alone.\" He was found not guilty on February 22, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "21576379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21576379", "title": "Falstaff International Film Festival", "text": "Falstaff International Film Festival\n\nFalstaff International Film Festival (FIFF) was a film festival that took place in Stratford-upon-Avon in 2009. During its inaugural year it was the largest film festival for rising talent and new cinema in the Midlands region of England. The festival supported commercial films, independent films, short films, as well as feature films. The director of the festival was Rowan M. Ashe.\n\nThe festival was launched to reinvigorate the local filmmaking community following the short success of two previous international film festivals in the town. The festival also recognised the importance of William Shakespeare's influence on film and in entertainment, with Stratford-upon-Avon being his birthplace.\n\nThe first festival took place from November 14 to 20 of 2009 with entries from all over the world. The festival also relaunched the Midlands Short Filmmaking Competition that celebrated achievements from regional filmmakers. An awards ceremony concluded the festival.\n\nAlthough film festivals in Stratford-upon-Avon have taken place consistently every two years no announcement has been made for a 2011 festival. The town is home to many types of festivals due to the popularity of the town and its tourist attractions. A suggestion has been made that the Stratford-upon-Avon Fringe Festival that was launched in 2010 may adopt the visual arts as part of its mandate.\n\n"}
{"id": "3348816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3348816", "title": "Frederick Ashworth", "text": "Frederick Ashworth\n\nFrederick Lincoln \"Dick\" Ashworth (24 January 1912 – 3 December 2005) was a United States Navy officer who served as the weaponeer on the B-29 \"Bockscar\" that dropped a Fat Man atomic bomb on Nagasaki, Japan on 9 August 1945 during World War II.\n\nA 1933 graduate of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, Ashworth commanded Torpedo Squadron Eleven (VT-11), a Grumman TBF Avenger unit based on Guadalcanal that flew patrol, search, spotting, strike, and night mine-laying missions in support of the New Georgia Campaign in the Solomon Islands. He was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for heroism while carrying out these missions. He then participated in the Gilbert and Marshall Islands campaign as aviation officer on the staff of Vice Admiral Richmond K. Turner's V Amphibious Force.\n\nRotated back to the United States in June 1944, Ashworth became senior naval aviator at the Naval Proving Ground in Dahlgren, Virginia. In November 1944 he was assigned to the Manhattan Project, and supervised the testing of atomic bomb components at Wendover. In February 1945, he travelled to Guam, where he met Fleet Admiral Chester Nimitz, and selected Tinian as a base of operations for the 509th Composite Group. After the war he selected Bikini Atoll as the site for Operation Crossroads.\n\nRemaining in the navy after the war, Ashworth rose to the rank of vice admiral in May 1966. He was Commandant of Midshipmen at the United States Naval Academy in 1958, and served as commander of the United States Sixth Fleet from September 1966 to April 1967. He retired from the navy in 1968, and died in 2005.\n\nFrederick Lincoln \"Dick\" Ashworth was born in Beverly, Massachusetts on 24 January 1912, the third child of Fred Ashworth, who worked as a draughtsman and tool designer for the United Shoe Machinery Corporation, and his wife Minnie. He had two older brothers, Phil and Bentley. Phil graduated from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, in 1931, but died in a 1938 seaplane crash off Pearl Harbor.\n\nThe family moved to a farmhouse in Wenham, Massachusetts, in 1918. Ashworth attended Center School in Wenham, and then, as Wenham had no high school of its own, Beverly High School, where he was president of the Student Council. Too young and small for football, he participated in track and cross country running. He graduated in 1928, and then entered Dartmouth College.\n\nAshworth decided that he wanted to go to Annapolis like his brother. He sat and passed the examinations for an appointment from his local Congressman, but did not secure one of the Congressman's two appointments. However, in August 1929, he was informed that one of the Congressman's appointments had been rejected for defective teeth. Ashworth then entered Annapolis. He graduated 134th in the class of 1933, and was commissioned as an ensign.\n\nAshworth's first posting was to the battleship . He married Nathalie Louise (Nan) Bliss from Peabody, Massachusetts in June 1935. They had three sons: Frederick Jr., David and Stephen. In 1936, he was accepted for aviator training, and reported to the Pensacola Naval Air Station. He then held various positions including air photography officer for the United States Pacific Fleet. In 1939, he volunteered for postgraduate study at Annapolis as an aviation ordinance engineer.\n\nBy the time Ashworth graduated in June 1942, the United States had entered World War II. He became commander of Torpedo Squadron Eleven (VT-11), a Grumman TBF Avenger unit based on Guadalcanal. VT-11 pilots flew patrol, search, spotting, strike, and night mine-laying missions in support of the New Georgia Campaign in the Solomon Islands. Ashworth was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Bronze Star Medal. His Distinguished Flying Cross citation read: \n\nIn September 1943, Ashworth was posted to the staff of Vice Admiral Richmond K. Turner's V Amphibious Force as aviation officer. In this capacity he served in the Gilbert and Marshall Islands campaign.\n\nIn June 1944, Ashworth was rotated back to the United States, where he became senior naval aviator at the Naval Proving Ground in Dahlgren, Virginia. In November he was assigned to the Manhattan Project. He later recalled that \n\nHolding the rank of commander, he became Director of Operations for Project Alberta, the portion of the Manhattan Project tasked with dropping of the weapons on Japan. In February 1945, Ashworth was sent to Guam to deliver a letter to Fleet Admiral Chester Nimitz from Fleet Admiral Ernest King ordering him to provide whatever support the Manhattan Project required. Ashworth's first task was to select a suitable base area for the 509th Composite Group. After looking at Guam and Saipan, he decided that Tinian would be more suitable, as it was closer to Japan than Guam, and had better facilities than Saipan. At the suggestion of island commander, Brigadier General Frederick V. H. Kimble, Ashworth selected an area at the northern end of the island.\n\nThe Director of the Manhattan Project, Major General Leslie R. Groves, Jr., wanted each nuclear strike mission to be commanded by a \"weaponeer\", a Project Alberta service academy graduate who would fly on the bomb-carrying aircraft and make such tactical decisions as were required. Only two officers met this requirement: Ashworth and his commanding officer, Captain William S. Parsons. The two therefore agreed that they would flying alternating missions. Parsons therefore commanded the Hiroshima mission, while Ashworth commanded the Nagasaki mission. For this mission, Ashworth was awarded the Silver Star Medal. His citation read:\n\nHe was also awarded the Legion of Merit. His citation read: \n\nAshworth was awarded a second Legion of Merit for Operation Crossroads in 1946. His citation read: \n\nAshworth remained in the navy after the war. He served on the staff of the Atomic Energy Commission's Division of Military Applications from 1952 to 1954. He was Commandant of Midshipmen at the United States Naval Academy in 1958, and headed the Atomic Energy Division for the Chief of Naval Operations from 1958 to 1960.\n\nPromoted to vice admiral in May 1966, Ashworth served as commander of the United States Sixth Fleet from September 1966 to April 1967, for which he was awarded a Navy Distinguished Service Medal. From April 1967 to September 1968, he was Deputy Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and as chief of staff to the Commander in Chief Atlantic, Commander in Chief U.S. Atlantic Fleet and Commander in Chief Western Atlantic Area, for which he was awarded a second Navy Distinguished Service Medal. He retired in September 1968 with the rank of vice admiral.\n\nFrederick L. Ashworth lived for over three decades in Santa Fe, New Mexico. He divorced his first wife in 1990, and remarried. He died on 3 December 2005 at Arizona Heart Hospital in Phoenix, Arizona, while undergoing heart surgery, and was buried in the Santa Fe National Cemetery. He was survived by his second wife, Ercie Bell Ashworth, and his sons Frederick Jr., David and Stephen.\n\n"}
{"id": "20250534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20250534", "title": "Global recession", "text": "Global recession\n\nA global recession is recession that affects many countries around the world—that is, a period of global economic slowdown or declining economic output.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund defines a global recession as \"a decline in annual percapita real World GDP (purchasing power parity weighted), backed up by a decline or worsening for one or more of the seven other global macroeconomic indicators: Industrial production, trade, capital flows, oil consumption, unemployment rate, percapita investment, and percapita consumption\".\n\nAccording to this definition, since World War II there were only four global recessions (in 1975, 1982, 1991 and 2009), all of them only lasting a year (although the 1991 recession would have lasted until 1993 if the IMF had used normal exchange rate weighted percapita real World GDP rather than the purchasing power parity weighted percapita real World GDP). The 2009 global recession, also known as the Great Recession, was by far the worst of the four postwar recessions, both in terms of the number of countries affected and the decline in real World GDP per capita.\n\nBefore April 2009, the IMF argued that a global annual real GDP growth rate of 3.0 percent or less was \"equivalent to a global recession\". By this measure, there were six global recessions since 1970: 1974–75, 1980–83, 1990–93, 1998, 2001–02, and 2008–09.\n\nInformally, a national recession is a period of declining economic output. In a 1974 \"New York Times\" article, Julius Shiskin suggested several rules of thumb to identify a recession, which included two successive quarterly declines in gross domestic product (GDP), a measure of the nation's output. This two-quarter metric is now a commonly held definition of a recession. In the United States, the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) is regarded as the authority which identifies a recession and which takes into account several measures in addition to GDP growth before making an assessment. In many developed nations (but not the United States), the two-quarter rule is also used for identifying a recession.\n\nWhereas a national recession is identified by two quarters of decline, defining a global recession is more difficult, because a Developing country is expected to have a higher GDP growth than a Developed country. According to the IMF, the real GDP growth of the emerging and developing countries is on an uptrend and that of advanced economies is on a downtrend since late 1980s. The world growth is projected to slow from 5% in 2007 to 3.75% in 2008 and to just over 2% in 2009. Downward revisions in GDP growth vary across regions. Among the most affected are commodity exporters, and countries with acute external financing and liquidity problems. Countries in East Asia (including China) have suffered smaller declines because their financial situations are more robust. They have benefited from falling commodity prices and they have initiated a shift toward macroeconomic policy easing.\n\nThe IMF estimates that global recessions occur over a cycle lasting between eight and ten years. During what the IMF terms the past three global recessions of the last three decades, global per capita output growth was zero or negative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18364482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18364482", "title": "Grand-Hôtel du Cap-Ferrat", "text": "Grand-Hôtel du Cap-Ferrat\n\nThe Grand-Hôtel du Cap-Ferrat, A Four Seasons Hotel is a famous five star luxury resort hotel, situated in Saint-Jean-Cap-Ferrat in the French Riviera. The hotel obtained the \"Palace de France\" distinction, granted by the French government for its excellence in service in 2011. The highest ranking of all the many “palaces” that sprang up all over the French Riviera, the Grand-Hôtel du Cap-Ferrat overlooks the sea from the furthermost tip of the peninsula from which it takes its name.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, Cap-Ferrat was little more than a wilderness of rocks and dense scrubland, vegetation that only changed as real estate began to develop there. At the end of the 19th century, piece by piece, King Leopold II of Belgium purchased the peninsula’s only wooded area, and then proceeded to expand his estate by buying up most of the vacant land around.\n\nShortly before 1900, Leopold sold part of his property to a company founded by a Mr. Péretmère, the son of a coachman from the north who had some savings of his own. He reserved six and a half hectares of the land for the hotel, whose construction began in 1908 with the two wings built at an open angle to each other, then the following year a loggia dining room and the large, central Rotonde were added. By then, the building had its final, distinctive silhouette, remarkably simple for the time. A little later, the Grand-Hôtel was bought by Madame Ferras, a widow and the grandmother of famous violinist Christian Ferras.\n\nThe First World War broke out shortly after the new owner’s arrival and the hotel became a hospital. In 1922, two professional hoteliers, Messrs Henri Dehouve and André Voyenne, acquired a majority shareholding and took over the running of\nthe company. They were to remain in charge for over twenty years, a period marked not only by the Great Depression and the Second World War, but also by a complete revolution in holidaying habits.\n\nSince it first became known in the second half of the 19th century, and up until the 1930s, the French Riviera remained almost exclusively a luxury destination. Most visitors were either wealthy individuals of independent means or royalty from northern countries, in particular England and Russia. They came only in winter and for long visits. Queen Victoria and her court, numerous aristocratic families, Princess Louise, the Duke of Connaught, President Paul Deschanel and many other politicians of the French 3rd Republic, the pianist Marguerite Long, the violinist Jacques Thibaud, and movie stars such as Charles Boyer, Charlie Chaplin and many others were to follow.\n\nNot until 1930 did a few unconventional visitors venture down to the Riviera in summertime, mostly avant-garde writers and artists. They all came in search of solitude, since practically nobody came then, and relished a certain snobbery surrounding their alternative style of travelling. In Cap-Ferrat itself, these new habits arrived purely by chance. During the summer of 1933, the German filmmaker G.W. Pabst persuaded Chaliapine to star in his version of Don Quixote. Since he did not have the funds to film in Spain, the director decided that Cap-Ferrat’s landscape would be perfectly suitable. One day, the film crew appeared at the hotel, which was closed at the time but nevertheless offered them improvised accommodation for a few weeks. The actors and film crew were so delighted with their stay in this heavenly location that many of them asked to return the following year for a private visit. Little by little, the summer season emerged, attracting a whole new generation of holidaymakers, younger and more athletic than their predecessors and seeking sun and sea above all else. Since the hotel’s rocky coastline made it difficult to reach the sea, a cove was blasted from the rock.\n\nA few weeks after the beginning of the war, the Grand-Hôtel was boarded up and plunged into darkness for six long years. On March 5, 1944, in preparation for an allied landing, the entire peninsula was evacuated and riddled with mines. Local inhabitants were given only a few hours to grab some of their belongings and flee. Thankfully, the hotel and swimming pool survived entirely unscathed by nearby shelling and the explosion that destroyed the lighthouse.\n\nUpon reopening at the end of the war, the procession of the great, rich and famous continued; the European royal houses, lords and barons from England; the great entrepreneurs of finance and industry, glittering literary and artistic celebrities. Other illustrious guests included the novelist Somerset Maugham, Charlie Chaplin, Winston Churchill and Aristote Onassis. The legendary swimming instructor, Pierre Gruneberg, has given lessons to Picasso, as well to both Paul McCartney’s and Frank Sinatra’s children.\n\nAn extension was built in two phases, while the hotel was closed each year, from October to April 2007 – 2008 and again in 2008–2009, and opened in May 2009. The project was designed by architect Luc Svetchine and comprised 16 rooms, 8 suites with private plunge pools, a 7500sq.feet spa with indoor swimming pool and the creation of two new suites on the garden level of the main building. The grounds are the work of landscape gardener Jean Mus. A new underground car park replaced the old above-ground parking areas.\n\nFour Seasons Hotels and Resorts took over management of the hotel on May 8, 2015 and the name was changed to Grand-Hôtel du Cap-Ferrat, A Four Seasons Hotel.\n\nAs of May 1, 2009, the Grand Hotel du Cap Ferrat contains 74 rooms (including 24 suites and the Penthouse), a spa & fitness center and a presidential suite, the Villa Rose-Pierre with its sea-view and pine grove.\n\nThe Grand-Hôtel serves food from three locations: at the Le Cap Gastronomic Restaurant, on its terrace overlooking the Mediterranean and shaded by Aleppo pines, or at the Club Dauphin Restaurant next to the pool.\n\nThe Grand-Hotel du Cap-Ferrat maintains a collection of well-known vintage wines:\n\nThe Grand-Hotel du Cap-Ferrat Music Festival\nArtistic director : Michael Desjardins\n\nThe Festival is an up-to-date version of the tradition of salon music, which dates back to centuries past, and of the jazz clubs and Parisian café-theatres where audiences would rub shoulders with the artists. The Rotonde, designed by Gustave Eiffel, is a comfortable venue with outstanding acoustics.\nThe programme spans every genre of vocal and instrumental music from all eras: opera, classical music, baroque music, film soundtracks, international variety, jazz, traditional music, and first performances of original works of contemporary\nmusic.\n\n"}
{"id": "7168894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7168894", "title": "Gurtenfestival", "text": "Gurtenfestival\n\nThe Gurtenfestival is a music festival in Switzerland. It is held annually in middle of July on top of Bern's local mountain, the Gurten.\n\nNazareth, Donovan, Ralph McTell, Flying Pickets, Konstantin Wecker\n\n(4–5 July): Little Village feat. Ry Cooder, Gipsy Kings, The Pogues, Los Lobos, Nick Lowe, Tower Of Power\n\n(16–18 July): Bob Dylan, Joan Baez, Héroes del silencio, Vaya Con Dios, Alannah Myles, The Blues Brothers Band, Manfred Mann's Earth Band, Angélique Kidjo, The Fallen Angels, Daniel Lanois\n\n(15–17 July): UB40, INXS, Jethro Tull, Elvis Costello, Al Green, Marla Glen, Dr. John, John Mayall, Candy Dulfer, Milton Nascimento, Incognito, Sens Unik, Züri West\n\n(14–16 July): The Cure, Zucchero, The Cranberries, The Mission, Ben Harper, Jeff Buckley, Public Enemy, Incognito, Zap Mama, Robben Ford\n\n(19–21 July): Die Toten Hosen, Björk, Nick Cave with Kylie Minogue & PJ Harvey, Iggy Pop, Clawfinger, Coolio, Jovanotti, House of Pain, Skunk Anansie, Massive Attack, Die Fantastischen Vier, Jimmy Cliff, Fettes Brot, Galliano, Keziah Jones\n\n(18–20 July): Neneh Cherry, Spin Doctors, Simple Minds, Faithless, Run DMC, De La Soul, Fun Lovin' Criminals, Isaac Hayes, David Byrne, Element Of Crime, Erasure, Shaggy, Youssou N’Dour, Ismael Lo, Taj Mahal, Noir Désir, Apocalyptica, Articolo 31, Bürger Lars Dietrich & Stefan Raab\n\n(17–19 July): Portishead, Rammstein, Sinéad O'Connor, Herbert Grönemeyer, Chumbawamba, Asian Dub Foundation, Moby, The Corrs, Jestofunk, Therapy?, Bobby Byrd, Tito & Tarantula, Tito Puente & Arturo Sandoval\n\n(16–18 July): Skunk Anansie, Faithless, Die Fantastischen Vier, UB40, Keziah Jones, Tricky, Bloodhound Gang, Jonny Lang, Everlast, Alliance Ethnik, Björn Again, Gölä, Züri West, Patent Ochsner, Subzonic, Lovebugs\n\n(14–16 July): Pet Shop Boys, Iggy Pop, All Saints, Moby, HIM, Moloko, Maceo Parker, Tower of Power, Angélique Kidjo, Guano Apes, Asian Dub Foundation, Orishas, Ani DiFranco, The Wailers, Alpha Blondy, Laurent Garnier, Lunik\n\n(13–15 July): Manu Chao, Erykah Badu, Morcheeba, Die Ärzte, PJ Harvey, Eagle-Eye Cherry, Fun Lovin' Criminals, Saint Germain, Motörhead, Incognito, Khaled, Thomas D, Kool & The Gang, The Young Gods, Pink Martini, Die Happy, Ska-P\n\n(19–21 July): Oasis, Die Toten Hosen, Jovanotti, Air, Lamb, Gotan Project, Beverley Knight, Jarabe de Palo, Bebel Gilberto, Chaka Khan, Seeed, The Charlatans, Gentleman, Ska-P, Sister Sledge, Bauchklang, Züri West, Patent Ochsner, Skaladdin, Stiller Has, Favez\n\n(18–20 July): Massive Attack, Alanis Morissette, Die Fantastischen Vier, Skin, Tricky, Moloko, Asian Dub Foundation, Open Season, The Skatalites, Orishas, Lovebugs, Saybia, Starsailor, Farin Urlaub Racing Team, Röyksopp, Jimmy Cliff, Stress & Band, Danko Jones, The Earth, Wind & Fire Experience, Elvis Spectacular, Anouk\n\n(15–18 July): Placebo, Ozomatli, Julian Marley, Ska-P, Seeed, 2Raumwohnung, Mando Diao, Danko Jones, Die Happy, Millencolin, Vive La Fête, The Streets, Kosheen, Panteón Rococó, Spearhead, Monster Magnet, Stephan Eicher, Nena, Myslovitz, IAM, Lunik, Plüsch, Die Ärzte, Sportfreunde Stiller, Wir sind Helden, Cameo, Nguru, Züri West\n\n(14–17 July): Adam Green, Athlete, Baze & Guests, Beatsteaks, Desorden Publico, Dizzee Rascal, Farin Urlaub Racing Team, Frank Popp Ensemble, Gentleman & the Far East Band, Jovanotti, Juli, Karamelo Santo, Louie Vega and his Elements of Live, Lovebugs, Mando Diao, Mich Gerber, Miss Kittin, Open Season, Patent Ochsner, Patrice, Roots Manuva, Sektion Kuchikäschtli, Silbermond, Söhne Mannheims, Stress, Sum 41, Texas, The Brand New Heavies, The Chemical Brothers, The Hives, The Prodigy, The Soundtrack of Our Lives, US3, Within Temptation\n\n(13–16 July): James Blunt, Billy Idol, Xavier Naidoo, Manu Chao, David Gray, Kaizers Orchestra, The Sounds, Danko Jones, Wir sind Helden, Editors, Mattafix, Coldcut, Bela B., Jamie Cullum, Sportfreunde Stiller, Laurent Garnier & Bugge Wesseltoft, Fettes Brot, William White, We Are Scientists, Phoenix, Stiller Has, Culcha Candela, Breitbild, Gogol Bordello, Joy Denalane, Flogging Molly, Wurzel 5, Skin, Reamonn, Mousse T. & Band\n\n(19–22 July): Cypress Hill, Scissor Sisters, Basement Jaxx, Avril Lavigne, Baschi, Backslash, 6er Gascho, Gaugehill, Gimma & Band, The Delilahs, Stress, Beatsteaks, Die Fantastischen Vier, The Pipettes, Lunik, Jones, Brothertunes, Maury, The Young Gods, Hillbilly Moon Explosion, Seven, Plüsch, The Roots, Kosheen, Kelis, Nada Surf, Clawfinger, The Locos, Sunrise Avenue, Babylon Circus, 2raumwohnung, Dizzee Rascal, Freundeskreis, Christina Stürmer, Dieter Thomas Kuhn & Band, Peter Bjorn And John, Ojos de Brujo, The BossHoss, Shantel & Bucovina Club Orkestar, Magicrays, Pegasus, My Name Is George, Bligg & Band, Fiji, Swiss Jazz Orchestra & Friends, Donavon Frankenreiter, Joss Stone, Weyermann, Baze unplugged feat. Secondo, (German Wikipedia link), Tomazobi.\n\nThe French Hip-Hop group IAM was also scheduled to come, but a few days before the event one of the crew members became ill and so IAM did not make it.\n\n(17–20 July): Culcha Candela, Kaiser Chiefs, The Chemical Brothers, Miss Platinum, Paolo Nutini, HIM, N.E.R.D., John Butler Trio, Ich und Ich, Dada (ante portas), Disco Ensemble, Züri West, Ben Harper, Amy Macdonald, Zappa Plays Zappa, William White, Herbert Grönemeyer, Solomon Burke, The Bosshoss\n\n(16–19 July): Dropkick Murphys, Bloc Party, Franz Ferdinand, Sorgente, The Gaslight Anthem, White Lies, Röyksopp, Blue King Brown, Ska-P, Peter Fox, Stress, Phenomden, Silbermond, Razorlight, Oasis, Tricky, Moonraisers, Glasvegas, Pendulum, Eluveitie, Seven, Patent Ochsner, Travis, Kings of Leon, Juliette Lewis\n\nThe Saturday Night headline performance of Oasis was the last concert of the British band in Switzerland before their breakup in August 2009.\n\n(15–18 July): Bad Religion, Empire of the Sun, Babyshambles, An Horse, Blood Red Shoes, Jet, Charlie Winston, Gossip, Faith No More, Editors, Rodrigo y Gabriela, Lunik, Sens Unik, Open Season, John Butler Trio, The Kooks, Groove Armada, Band of Skulls, Biffy Clyro, Stereophonics, Archive, Florence and the Machine, Skunk Anansie, Amy Macdonald, The Parlotones, Milow, Gogol Bordello, Steff la Cheffe, Chocquibtown\n\n(14–17 July): Kate Nash, Brandon Flowers, 2ManyDJs, The Vaccines, Eels, Royal Republic, Glasvegas, Beatsteaks, Kasabian, Underworld, Sophie Hunger, The Streets, Bloody Beetroots Death Crew 77, 77 Bombay Street, The Script, Jamie Cullum, Kaiser Chiefs, Jamiroquai, Pendulum, Christophe Maé, The Ting Tings, Kummerbuben, The National, Beady Eye, Arctic Monkeys, Aloe Blacc\n\n(12–15 July): Lenny Kravitz, Norah Jones, Snow Patrol, The Roots, Jan Delay, Züri West, Patent Ochsner, Stress, Noel Gallagher's High Flying Birds, Gorillaz Sound System, Digitalism, Fritz Kalkbrenner, Bonaparte, Example, Friendly Fires, Birdy Nam Nam, Leningrad Cowboys, Dick Brave & The Backbeats, Santigold, Parov Stelar Band, Nneka, Xavier Rudd, Dry The River, The Subways, Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros, Boy, Frank Turner & The Sleeping Souls, Casper, Kraftklub, Yodelice, Thees Uhlmann, Other Lives, Phenomden\n"}
{"id": "11765800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11765800", "title": "Guðríður Símonardóttir", "text": "Guðríður Símonardóttir\n\nGuðríður Símonardóttir (1598 – December 18, 1682) was an Icelandic woman who was one of 242 people abducted from the Westman Islands, Iceland in 1627 in a raid by Barbary pirates. These raids came to be known as the Turkish abductions and Guðríður became known as Tyrkja-Gudda. After being held as a slave and concubine for nearly a decade, she was one of a few captives ransomed by the Danish king. She returned to Iceland, marrying the young pastor Hallgrímur Pétursson, who became known for his poetry and hymns. \n\nGuðríður was the young wife of a fisherman and a mother. After her abduction in 1627 from the Westman Islands, she was sold by the pirates as a slave and concubine in Algeria. She was among the few who were ransomed nearly a decade later by King Christian IV of Denmark, and she returned to Iceland.\n\nShe was sent to Denmark along with some other former slaves to be re-educated. They were taught by Hallgrímur Pétursson, then a theology student. They fell in love and she became pregnant by him. They returned to Iceland where she learned that her husband had died. She and Hallgrímur married. He later was called as the pastor of a church at Saurbær, Iceland (1651–1669). He became well known for his poetry and especially what are known as \"Passion Hymns\" (\"Passíusálmar\"), recounting the life and death (The Passion) of Christ. \n\nOther Icelanders looked down on Guðríður and considered her a whore and heathen, blaming her for her time in Algeria. She was 16 years older than Hallgrímur, which in itself was considered a disgrace.\n\nJakob Jónsson wrote an epic play about Tyrkja-Gudda in 1952.\n\nSteinunn Jóhannesdóttir wrote a historical novel about Tyrkja-Gudda called \"Reisubók Guðríðar Símonardóttur\" (\"Gudridur's Journey,\" 2001). The book was on the bestseller list in Iceland for months, and it has been reprinted every year since first being published. Rights have been sold to Germany and Norway.\n\nManuel López made a documentary about Tyrkja-Gudda in 2017, \"From Miguel de Cervantes to Guðríður Símonardóttir, an Icelandic woman in Algiers\" (in Spanish and subtitled in English). https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q6OvTrs6gqc\n\n"}
{"id": "3160731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3160731", "title": "Harballabh Fair", "text": "Harballabh Fair\n\nShree Baba Harballabh Sangeet Sammelan is a festival of Indian classical music, held every year on the last weekend in December, in Jalandhar City. \n\nThe festival, which was first held in 1875 at the \"Sidh Peeth Shri Devi Talab Mandir\", in Jalandhar, is named after Baba Harballabh who is considered a saint and an exponent of Hindustani classical music in northern India. \n\nThe 3 day long festival hosts 15-20 artists every year. Prominent artists of Hindustani Classical Music from India and Pakistan have performed at the festival at one time or the other during the history of the festival, which attracts thousands of music lovers from all over India and other countries.\n\nThere is no admission fee. The money for organizing the festival comes from various donations and grants, both public and private. \n\nTo encourage the young to appreciate and improve themselves in the field of Hindustani classical music and to bring out the best amongst the competitors, an open competition in Hindustani Classical Music is organized by the Mahasabha every year for 3 days prior to the annual Sangeet Sammelan. \n\nThere are three categories for competition, namely: Vocal, Instrumental (Non-Percussion) and Instrumental (Percussion) with two age groups in each category: Juniors (\"Yuva Varg\" - between 13 and 19 years) and Seniors (\"Varishth Varg\" - 19 to 25 years) and three prizes in each category: First, Second and Third. \n\nThe winners from the Senior age group are initiated and given an opportunity to perform as 'Performing Artists' during the next Sammelan.\n\nVasant Utsav, Malhar Utsav and Hemant Utsav are organized in the months of February, August and October every year. \nTwo to three artists are invited during these Utsavs to give their performance during a 4-5 hour program on the scheduled evenings. \n\nDuring the Utsavs, preference is given to the upcoming artists in the field of Hindustani classical music so as to give them appropriate exposure in music circles.\n\n"}
{"id": "42458904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42458904", "title": "Henry Pearlman", "text": "Henry Pearlman\n\nHenry Pearlman (1895–1974) was a Brooklyn-born, self-made businessman who discovered in midlife a passion for impressionist and post-impressionist art. Over three postwar decades, he assembled a \"deeply personal\" collection centered on thirty-three works by Paul Cézanne and more than forty by Vincent van Gogh, Amedeo Modigliani, Chaïm Soutine, Paul Gauguin, Édouard Manet, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec and a dozen other European modernists. His eye for quality was \"rarely matched in a private collection.\"\n\nPearlman started his career in the cork insulation business, forming his own company, Eastern Cold Storage Insulation Corporation, at the age of twenty-four and becoming a major player in marine refrigeration. He married Rose Fried in 1925; they raised two daughters in Croton-on-Hudson, eventually living both there and in Manhattan and traveling frequently in pursuit of art.\n\nWhile Pearlman initially decorated his Croton home with Old Master and American Realist paintings, including those found at local flea markets, his passion for art, and the stories behind each work, found full expression with the purchase at auction in 1945 of an expressionist painting by Chaïm Soutine – \"View of Céret\" (formerly \"Village Square, Céret\"). As one observer put it, \"his first foray into Parisian modernism revealed an acute eye, an instinct for the historical moment and a deeply felt connection to an artist who opened up a new world for him.\"\nPearlman quickly made connections in the New York art world; he spent time in museums and archives; and he soon traded his decorative collection for carefully selected examples of modern works by impressionist, post-impressionist and expressionist European artists. Pearlman found himself captivated by the details of the lives of and associations among these artists, and his acquisitions often followed such discoveries; he \"liked connections and contexts, but as they arose within the framework of his vividly personal taste.\" Pearlman was invigorated by the pursuit of quality as well as the challenges of finding, authenticating and negotiating the ownership of increasingly rare masterpieces.\n\nIn the years after World War II, Pearlman began traveling to Europe. During an early trip to London he met Austrian expressionist Oskar Kokoschka. This would result in a lifelong friendship for Pearlman with one of the few living artists whose work he collected. On this same trip he also visited the places where Soutine had painted, trying to identify the landscapes he already knew well from their expressionist representation – an activity he would repeat with other artists and works as he built his collection. In his hunt for new works, he looked first to Soutine’s close associates, including Modigliani. Ultimately the collection would include seven paintings by Soutine, and four works by Modigliani, including a rare limestone head and two oil portraits (\"Léon Indenbaum\" and \"Jean Cocteau\").\n\nAlthough successful in business, Pearlman was never able to match the resources of his contemporaries. Instead, \"he was both lucky and clever: lucky in that, when he first started, the art he was interested in…could be secured for thousands rather than millions of dollars…and clever in that he continuously honed his eye and then applied his skills… to obtain the objects of his passion.\"\nIn 1950 Pearlman learned from a dealer that Van Gogh’s \"Tarascon Diligence\" was available from the heirs of the artist Milo Beretta. He quickly offered a combination of paintings and cash to make what is perhaps his most fabled acquisition – the last time a \"lost\" Van Gogh will reappear for the next sixty-five years. As a reviewer described, this Van Gogh was \"a typical Pearlman picture: assertive, pushing a characteristic manner to an extreme that is slightly unusual in the artist’s oeuvre.\"\nAlso in 1950, with the advice of noted Cézanne specialist John Rewald, Pearlman made his first purchase of a Cézanne watercolor, \"Cistern in the Park of Château Noir\". Over the following two decades, he would acquire more than thirty works by Cézanne and assemble the most distinguished collection of watercolors by the artist.\nThis new fascination with Cézanne did not distract Pearlman from his expanding interest in the works of other artists who lived and worked in France, many of whom knew, were influenced by and competed with one another. In addition to Modigliani, he added works by Toulouse-Lautrec, Manet, Degas, Renoir and Gauguin as well as several significant oil paintings by Cézanne, including the only known vertical-format of the artist’s favorite subject, Mont Sainte-Victoire. Pearlman continued to build his collection - buying, selling and trading works – for the three remaining decades of his life. His last two purchases were Cézanne watercolors: a late masterpiece (\"Still Life with Carafe, Bottle, and Fruit\") and \"Rocks at Bibémus\", which he had come to know when it appeared alongside works from his collection in a number of exhibitions.\n\nBeginning in the 1950s, Henry and Rose Pearlman began lending individual works to major museums, initially for retrospectives of Soutine and Modigliani. As their collection took shape, loans and exhibitions of the collection became important to them and eventually occupied as much of Henry’s time and attention as acquisitions did. Although he never tired of the hunt, works that met his eye for quality and expressiveness were soon available only to those with the funds, not just a passion.\n\nPearlman’s generosity extended beyond the loans of works from his collection. He lent financial and other support to artists, including Kokoschka and Jacques Lipchitz, whose studio was destroyed by fire in 1952. Later he allowed his collection to be exhibited as a fundraiser for an organization helping immigrant populations settle in New York.\nThe Henry and Rose Pearlman Foundation was established in 1955 as a not-for-profit organization and is the current owner of the collection. The first exhibition of the collection took place in 1958: twenty-seven selected works, lent anonymously, to the Baltimore Museum of Art. Numerous exhibitions of the collection (in whole and in part) have taken place over the past six decades, including the following: forty-six works were shown at Knoedler & Company in New York in 1959; the Fogg Museum in 1959; the collection was featured in different exhibitions at the Brooklyn Museum of Art in 1960, 1964, 1974 and 1986; the Detroit Institute of Art in 1967; the Wadsworth Atheneum in 1970; the National Gallery of Art in 1972, and at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco in 1982. A 1960 article in \"Connoisseur\" magazine describes Pearlman’s \"unflagging fascination of the hunt … [He] trusts a stubborn faith in his own taste and has no interest in assembling an anthology of the standard names of modern art, but only those artists who have a special appeal to his individual taste.\"\nIn 1961 Pearlman began making summer loans to museums, starting with the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s \"Paintings from Private Collections: Summer Loan Exhibition\" series, in part so that the works would be safe and seen while he and Rose were in Croton. (When not on loan, the collection was divided between their Park Avenue apartment and Henry’s office in midtown Manhattan.)\n\nHenry Pearlman spent much of the last year of his life organizing an exhibition of the collection at the Brooklyn Museum, which toured after his death to Princeton, Utica (NY), Williamstown (MA) and the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh. The collection returned to the Princeton University Art Museum in 1976, when Rose Pearlman, as head of the foundation, initiated a series of longer-term loans that continue to this day. A world-class university-based museum, Princeton offers the collection security, conservation, curatorial expertise and management of loan requests from museums around the world.\n\nIn 2014, the Henry and Rose Pearlman Foundation and the Princeton University Art Museum initiated a tour of the collection, including its first exhibitions outside the United States. With the aim of expanding the audience for these works and artists, the tour (\"Cézanne and the Modern: Masterpieces from the Henry and Rose Pearlman Collection\") opened at the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, England, in March 2014. Reviewers noted: \"A collection of truly stunning art works\" (\"Oxford Times\"); \"\"Cézanne and the Modern\"… makes you think about modern art – where it began, and what it is\" (\"The Guardian\"); \"The finest, best preserved collection of Cézanne watercolours in the world\" (\"Financial Times\"). In July, 2014, it traveled to the Musée Granet in Aix-en-Provence, France, where many of the Cézanne works were originally created. The collection then returned to North America with three exhibitions: The High Museum in Atlanta, the Vancouver Art Gallery and at Princeton for the fall semester of 2015.\n\nIn September, 2018, the Henry and Rose Pearlman Foundation launched a redesigned website for the collection. Featuring high-quality, shareable images of the entire collection, it also offers details about where the works were created. Some of these include photographs of the same view today and many include Google Map locations. The site also has excerpts from Henry Pearlman’s \"Reminiscences of a Collector,\" with anecdotes about collecting, forgeries, negotiations, dealers and competing collectors. The paper archives of Pearlman’s correspondence and files, held at the Smithsonian Institution’s Archives of American Art, are also linked as well as other external resources, such as the letters of Van Gogh, X-rays of hidden works and connections among the artists represented in the collection.\n\nArchives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C., Henry and Rose Pearlman papers, 1893-1995 (bulk 1950-1980).\n\nThe Brooklyn Museum Libraries and Archives, Records, Exhibition negatives: installations. 38 Post-Impressionist Works from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pearlman.1964.\n\nThe Brooklyn Museum Libraries and Archives, Records, Records, Exhibition views: installations. Paintings, Watercolors, Sculpture and Drawings from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pearlman. 1974.\n\nHenry Pearlman. \"Reminiscences of a Collector\". Princeton, 1995. \n\n\"A Loan Exhibition of Paintings, Watercolors and Sculpture from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pearlman for the Benefit of Greenwich House\". Exh. cat. New York, 1959. Exhibition, M. Knoedler & Co., New York, 27 January–12 February 1959.\n\n\"An Exhibition of 19th & 20th Century Painting and Sculpture from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pearlman\". Exhibition, Brooklyn Museum of Art, New York, 29 June–5 September 1960. Published checklist.\n\n\"An Exhibition of Paintings, Watercolors, Sculpture and Drawings from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pearlman and Henry and Rose Pearlman Foundation\". Exh. cat. New York, 1974. Exhibition, Brooklyn Museum of Art, New York, 22 May–29 September 1974; Art Museum, Princeton University, 8 December 1974 – 14 March 1975; Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute, Utica, N.Y., 13 April–31August 1974; Francine and Sterling Clark Institute, Williamstown, Mass., 26 September 1975 – 22 February 1976; Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, 6 April–30 May 1976.\n\nAnonymous. \"Pearlman Collection: Taste with a Reverse Twist.\" \"Art News\" (February 1959), pp. 26–27, 63.\n\nAnonymous. \"The Pearlman Collection.\" \"Arts\" 33 (February 1959), pp. 46–47.\n\nJohn Ashbery, \"Cultured Pearls,\" \"New York Magazine\" (5 August 1974), p. 62.\n\nA. L. Chanin. \"The Henry Pearlman Collection.\" \"Connoisseur\" 145, no. 586 (June 1960), pp. 230–36.\n\n\"Cézanne and His Contemporaries: The Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pearlman Collection\". Exh. cat. Detroit, 1967. Exhibition, Detroit Institute of Arts, 14 June–1 October 1967.\n\nRachael Z. DeLue et al., \"Cézanne and the Modern: Masterpieces of European Art from the Pearlman Collection\" (New Haven and Princeton, 2014). \n\nLaura M. Giles and Carol Armstrong, eds. \"Cézanne in Focus: Watercolors from the Henry and Rose Pearlman Collection\". Exh. cat. Princeton, 2002. Exhibition, Princeton University Art Museum, 19 October 2002 – 12 January 2003.\n\n\"Impressionism, Post-impressionism, Expressionism: The Mr. & Mrs. Henry Pearlman Collection of Works by Cézanne, Van Gogh, Degas, Toulouse Lautrec, Manet, Modigliani, Soutine, and Others\". Exh. cat. Hartford, Conn., 1970. Exhibition, Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford, Conn., 10 June–4 October 1970.\n\nJonathan Jones, \"Cézanne and the Modern review – 'puts Ashmolean in the big league,'\" \"The Guardian\" (10 March 2014).\n\nJohn Russell, \"In Pearlman Art Display, the Coups of a Collector,\" \"New York Times\" (23 May 1974).\n\n\"Sixteen Watercolors by Cézanne from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pearlman\". Exh. cat. New York, 1973. Exhibition, Paul Rosenberg & Co., New York, 16 October–16 November 1973.\n\n\"Summer Loan 1971: Paintings from New York Collections: Collection of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pearlman and The Henry and Rose Pearlman Foundation\". Exhibition, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, 13 July–7 September 1971. Published checklist.\n\nTheresa Thompson, \"A collection of truly stunning art works,\" \"The Oxford Times\" (20 March 2014).\n\nJackie Wullschlager, \"Cézanne and modern masterpieces from the Pearlman Collection,\" \"Financial Times\" (14 March 2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "3856583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3856583", "title": "International Polkafest", "text": "International Polkafest\n\nThe International Polkafest is an annual music festival devoted to polka. The festival draws about a dozen bands and was held for a time and until 2008 at the Ironworld Discovery Center in Chisholm, Minnesota. The first Polkafest was held in Pine City, Minnesota in 1978 at the Pine County Fairgrounds and it was held there most often throughout the years until it outgrew the space. Florian Chmielewski was the brainchild of the event which attracts thousands of people each year.\n\nAn International Polkafest was held in Kitzbühel, Austria in 1978.\nFlorian Chmielewski Fun Time Band Website\n\n"}
{"id": "47169360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47169360", "title": "Isle of MTV", "text": "Isle of MTV\n\nThe Isle of MTV is an annual music festival organized by MTV Europe, which is part of Viacom Media Networks. It has been held in Malta since 2007, although previous editions were held in Portugal, France, Spain and Italy. The Isle of MTV is one of the smallest music festivals in Europe, and the latest editions were attended by approximately 10,000 people.\n\nThe festival is organized annually on one day in June or July. It begins at 18:00 and ends before midnight. Entrance is free of charge, and there are no age limits. Malta Public Transport runs special bus routes on the day to facilitate travel.\n\nThe 2002 edition was held at Belém Tower near Lisbon, Portugal. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2003 edition was held at Île Gaou in Six-Fours-les-Plages, France.\n\nThe 2004 edition was held at Platja Gran in Tossa de Mar on the Costa Brava, Spain. The line-up was as follows:\n\n\nThe 2005 edition was held on 14 July at Piazza Unità d'Italia in Trieste, Italy. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2007 edition was held on 26 July at the Granaries in Floriana, Malta. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2008 edition was held on 25 June at the Granaries in Floriana. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2009 edition was held on 8 July at the Granaries in Floriana. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2010 edition was held on 30 June at the Granaries in Floriana. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2011 edition was held on 30 June at the Granaries in Floriana. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2012 edition was held on 26 June at the Granaries in Floriana. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2013 edition was held on 26 June at the Granaries in Floriana. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2014 edition was held on 25 June at the Granaries in Floriana. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2015 edition was held on 7 July at the Granaries in Floriana. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2016 edition was held on 28 June at the Granaries in Floriana. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2017 edition was held on 27 June at the Granaries in Floriana. The line-up was as follows:\n\nThe 2018 Isle of MTV edition will take place at the granaries in Floriana with the following musicians:\n\n"}
{"id": "15789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15789", "title": "January 3", "text": "January 3\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22950312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22950312", "title": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2010", "text": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2010\n\nThe Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2010 was the eighth edition of Junior Eurovision Song Contest and took place in Minsk, Belarus. It was held on 20 November 2010. The contest was won by Vladimir Arzumanyan from Armenia with the song Mama. This gave Armenia its first Junior Eurovision victory and its first victory in any Eurovision contest.\n\nThe European Broadcasting Union (EBU) invited broadcasters to bid for the rights to host the Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2010. Belarus broadcaster National State Television and Radio Company of the Republic of Belarus (BRTC) won the rights to organise the contest over bids from Russia and Malta. Under construction through 2009, the 15,000-spectator Minsk-Arena hosted the event. Belarus has twice previously won the Junior Eurovision Song Contest, which is, according to EBU Executive Supervisor Svante Stockselius, \"one of Belarus' most popular television shows.\"\n\nThe theme art for the contest was revealed on 8 April 2010, consisting of multi-coloured circles, symbolising \"different people, cultures and countries,\" that form the shape of wings, that symbolise \"freedom, ease of flying, creative inspiration and rising above.\"\nOn 8 September, the mascots of the show were presented, being a bear and a wisent.\n\nThe stage, by Swedish stage designer Ulf Mårtensson, was unveiled on 15 July 2010, featuring five constructions in the shapes of wings. The hosts were also involved with each performance on their own dedicated section of the stage.\n\nTheme art was also incorporated in the promotional billboards and posters featuring 11 \"faces of Junior Eurovision\" selected through casting procedure. Results of castings were revealed on 20 July 2010 and the 11 chosen ones were Belarus TV personalities Denis Kourian, Olga Barabanschikova, Irina Kazantseva, Andrey Bibikov, former JESC entrants Alexey Zhigalkovich, Ksenia Sitnik, Yuriy Demidovich, Alina Molosh, Daria Nadina as well as non-professionals Yulia Brazhinskaya and Ilya Ilmursky.\n\nOn 28 July 2010, the EBU announced the competing countries for the Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2010. A total of 14 countries competed, with Moldova making its début and Latvia and Lithuania returning. Cyprus and Romania withdrew from the contest. Sweden returned to the contest through Sveriges Television (SVT) after TV4 withdrew. The EBU's coordinator of the contest, Svante Stockselius, labelled SVT's return to the contest as a big achievement in terms of negotiations with possible participants and expressed hope that other Scandinavian broadcasters may also return to the show.\n\nThe show also featured all winners of Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2003-2009 Dino Jelusić, María Isabel, Ksenia Sitnik, The Tolmachevy Twins, Alexey Zhigalkovich, Bzikebi and Ralf Mackenbach, who performed remix-medley of their winning entries and presented the trophy to the winner of 2010 edition. Also, a special documentary \"Kids of Eurovision\" was filmed by BTRC about them.\n\nEach country gave their votes through a 50% jury and 50% televoting system, which decided their top ten songs using the points 12, 10, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1.\n\nBelow is a summary of all 12 points received:\n\nThe order in which votes were cast during the 2010 contest along with the spokesperson who was responsible for announcing the votes for their respective country. Each national broadcaster also sent a commentator to the contest, in order to provide coverage of the contest in their own native language. Details of the commentators and the broadcasting station for which they represented are also included in the table below.\n\n\nJunior Eurovision Song Contest 2010: Minsk, is a compilation album put together by the European Broadcasting Union, and was released by Universal Music Group on 19 November 2010. The album features all the songs from the 2010 contest, along with karaoke versions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6750038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6750038", "title": "List of Sri Lankan Tamil militant groups", "text": "List of Sri Lankan Tamil militant groups\n\nFollowing is a list of Sri Lankan Tamil militant groups.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30873620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873620", "title": "List of World War II evacuations", "text": "List of World War II evacuations\n\nSeveral instances of evacuations (including both emergency evacuations and forced migrations) occurred during and after World War II. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5222117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5222117", "title": "List of assassinated people from Turkey", "text": "List of assassinated people from Turkey\n\nThe following is an incomplete, chronological list of people from Turkey murdered by assassins mainly on political and religious grounds. Many were critical public servants and intellectuals assassinated by far-right proponents of an army-controlled Turkish Republic. Many of the victims have historically been intellectual proponents of laicism and the strict separation of religion and state in Turkey, as defined in the constitution, and .\n\n\n\n\nThe event is considered to be the first in a decade-long chain of organized attacks against Turkish diplomats by Armenian militant groups.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n28 September 1979: Turkish prosecutor.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn 5 September 2006 he was shot dead from behind while kneeling in prayer in the church. A witness heard the perpetrator shouting \"Allahu Akbar\".[1][2] A 16-year-old high school student was arrested two days after the shooting carrying a 9mm pistol. An investigation by the Air Force Office of Special Investigations on stolen weaponry in Iraq revealed that the gun was of the same type used in the supposedly Islamist attack on the Turkish Council of State in 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58376094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58376094", "title": "List of live performances by Shawn Mendes", "text": "List of live performances by Shawn Mendes\n\nCanadian singer and songwriter Shawn Mendes has released three studio albums, an extended play and two live albums since his debut in 2013. This has resulted in four concert tours (all of them worldwide), and numerous TV and award shows performances. He first released an extended play named \"The Shawn Mendes EP\" in July 2014. The EP got promoted through 2014, through performances at several award ceremonies and television shows, including the Jingle Ball and The Ellen DeGeneres Show. Mendes has served as an opening act for Austin Mahone on the North American leg of . He also has served as the opening act for Taylor Swift's 1989 World Tour on selected dates of the tour's North American leg.\n\nIn 2014 he embarked on his debut concert tour, #ShawnsFirstHeadlines, which only visited North America and Europe and grossed over a million dollars. He embarked on his second world tour Shawn Mendes World Tour in 2016 to promote his first studio album \"Handwritten\" (2015). The tour visited North America, Europe, Oceania and the Philippines. After completion, the tour grossed over $3.8 million and over 95,000 people had gone to one of the tour's stops. The Madison Square Garden show in September 2016 was filmed for a live album that got released three months later.\n\nMendes' next tour was named Illuminate World Tour. It began in April 2017 and ended in December 2017 visiting North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania and Brazil. It was reported that the tour had grossed over $37 million becoming his highest grossing tour to date. The tour supported the release of his second studio album, \"Illuminate\" which was released in September 2016. The only show in Mexico was cancelled due to the 2017 Central Mexico earthquake. In November 2017, Mendes released his MTV Unplugged live album which was filmed at the Ace Hotel in Los Angeles in early September.\n\nIn May 2018 Mendes announced his fourth world tour called . The tour will start in Amsterdam in March 2019 and will visit Europe, North America and Oceania. Before going on that 2019 tour, he had embarked on a big festival tour in 2018 to support his self-titled album which was released in May 2018.\n"}
{"id": "58203361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58203361", "title": "List of people who disappeared mysteriously: pre-1970", "text": "List of people who disappeared mysteriously: pre-1970\n\nThis is a list of people who disappeared mysteriously: pre-1970 and of people whose current whereabouts are unknown or whose deaths are not substantiated. Many people who disappear are eventually declared dead \"in absentia\". Some of these people were possibly subjected to forced disappearance, but there is insufficient information on their subsequent fates.\n\n"}
{"id": "11726650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11726650", "title": "Live Earth concert, Rio de Janeiro", "text": "Live Earth concert, Rio de Janeiro\n\nThe Live Earth concert for South America was held at Copacabana Beach, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on July 7, 2007. It is one of two free Live Earth concerts, the other being held in Washington, D.C. It was the last concert to start during the day-long event. However, that didn't make it the last to finish, for the New York concert was still going on when things wrapped up in Rio. Lenny Kravitz was the headliner, playing a free gig there for the second time.\n\nA few days before the event, a State prosecutor tried to cancel it, due to an alleged lack of police personnel to take care of security. However, the day after that, the concert was reinstated. Attendance was of about 400,000 people, much less than the crowd drawn to Copacabana by the Rolling Stones free concert on February 18, 2006, which exceeded a million people. Audience numbers were closer to those of the other Lenny Kravitz performance there, on March 21, 2005. On that occasion, Kravitz performed for 300,000 people, in a concert of his own, staged at a different location on the beach. The Rolling Stones concert and Live Earth happened at exactly the same spot, in front of the Copacabana Palace hotel.\n\nThe following artists performed at the Brazilian Live Earth concert (in order of appearance):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2297986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2297986", "title": "Liz Carpenter", "text": "Liz Carpenter\n\nMary Elizabeth Sutherland Carpenter (September 1, 1920 – March 20, 2010) was a writer, feminist, reporter, media advisor, speechwriter, political humorist, and public relations expert.\nCarpenter was born in historic Salado in southern Bell County, Texas. In 1936, her 24-room residence there was declared a state historic monument. In 1967, a plaque was unveiled to indicate that Carpenter had once lived there. At the age of seven, she moved with her family to Austin. Carpenter stood in the forefront of the Women's Movement when it began and never wavered from her platform. Her projects and causes ranged from supporting high tech to fighting cancer. Often called the \"funniest woman in politics\", she was in demand as a public speaker until her death.\n\nCarpenter launched her journalism career at Austin High School in Austin as the editor of the school paper, \"The Austin Maroon\". Another aspiring journalist, Leslie E. \"Les\" Carpenter (ca. 1921–1974) of Austin, was business manager of the newspaper. The two became best friends, majored in journalism at the University of Texas at Austin, and worked together on the university newspaper, \"The Daily Texan\". Liz Carpenter was a member of Texas Orange Jackets, the University's oldest women's honorary service organization. Les firmly supported Liz when she was elected vice president of the student body, the first woman to have held that position.\n\nIn 1942, Carpenter began covering the White House and Congress for the \"Austin American-Statesman\". For the next eighteen years, she reported on presidents from Franklin D. Roosevelt to John F. Kennedy as a Washington reporter.\n\nLes and Liz Carpenter were married on June 17, 1944, after he was discharged from the United States Navy during World War II. They launched the Carpenter News Bureau in the National Press Building in Washington, D.C. For the next sixteen years Carpenter covered Congress and the White House for various newspapers in Texas. She missed work only briefly when their two children, Scott and Christy, were born.\n\nShe was still a working reporter at the time of the 1960 Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, California. She soon joined the staff of Lyndon B. Johnson in his campaign for Vice President in 1960 and traveled on his foreign missions as a press spokeswoman. After Kennedy's election, she became the first woman executive assistant to the vice-president.\n\nCarpenter was in Dallas on November 22, 1963, at the time of the assassination of John F. Kennedy. She drafted the fifty-eight words that Johnson used on his return to Washington:\n\nFollowing Johnson's succession to the presidency, Carpenter became the first professional newswoman to be press secretary to a first lady for Lady Bird Johnson (1963–1969), for whom she also served as staff director. Carpenter also contributed to the speeches of President Johnson, particularly in the field of humor by creating the White House Humor Group.\n\nAfter the Johnson Administration ended in 1969, she wrote \"Ruffles and Flourishes\", her account of her White House experiences.\n\nShe was a vice president of Hill and Knowlton in Washington after leaving the White House. In 1971, she was one of the founders of the National Women's Political Caucus and co-chair of ERAmerica, traveling the country to push for passage of the Equal Rights Amendment.\n\nShe was appointed by President Gerald Ford to the International Women's Year Commission, by President Jimmy Carter to serve as Assistant Secretary of Education for Public Affairs, and by President Bill Clinton to serve on the White House Conference on Aging.\n\nCarpenter was a member of the Peabody Awards Board of Jurors from 1977 to 1983.\n\nIn 1974, Les Carpenter died suddenly of a heart attack at the age of fifty-two, just a year after the death of Lyndon Johnson. In 1976, Carpenter returned to Austin: \"Family roots, the love for Texas and the University of Texas and the LBJ Library brought me back home.\" She purchased a house, which she named \"Grass Roots\", located in the West Lake Hills overlooking the Austin skyline and the Colorado River\n\nHer books include: \"Unplanned Parenthood\", Random House 1994; \"Getting Better All the Time\", Simon and Schuster 1986, as well as countless articles and forays on the lecture circuit. \"Start With a Laugh\", gives humorous advice on speech writing, was published by Eakin Press and launched at the opening of the National Women's Museum: An Institute for the Future in Dallas. Her most recent book, \"Presidential Humor\", Bright Sky Press 2006, is a compilation of quips and quotes from \"George the First to George the Worst.\"\n\nCarpenter was named a Distinguished Alumna of the University of Texas in 1975, and in 1990 was named distinguished alumnae of the Department of Communications. She was named by Governor Mark White to the Texas Women's Hall of Fame. She was given the ProBene Award of the College of Liberal Arts.\n\nThe Liz Carpenter Lectureship was established in 1984 by a group of her friends, including Erma Bombeck and Mark Russell, who gave a performance at the Paramount Theater to raise funds for it.\nIn the last several years, Mrs. Carpenter's lectureship in the College of Liberal Arts has brought President Bill Clinton, President Gerald Ford, Hillary Clinton, Jehan Sadat, Maya Angelou, Bill Moyers, Jane Goodall, and writers such as Betty Friedan, Nora Ephron, Shana Alexander, and Jean Auel and nationally known humorists such as Fannie Flagg and Carol Channing.\n\nThe Liz Carpenter Award is given annually for the best scholarly book on the history of women and Texas published during the calendar year. The Award was established in 1992 by an anonymous donor who is committed to the publication of scholarly research on the history of women and Texas. The award honors Liz Carpenter, a sixth-generation Texan, for her commitment to the pursuit of the history of women in Texas and for a lifetime of achievements that qualify her as a maker of that history.\n\nShe is the recipient of Alpha Phi's Frances E. Willard Award in 1980. She died in Austin, Texas in March 2010.\n\n\"Liz Carpenter is much more than an American original: she is an American and a Texas original. Her inside stories of our nation's political life over the last half-century are priceless.\" —Walter Cronkite\n\n\"No one remains the same person after meeting Liz ...(she) makes Auntie Mame look like a shut-in.\" —Erma Bombeck\n\n\"Her combination of wit and wisdom is infectious, encouraging, enlightening. Texas never had a truer daughter. Her zest for life is an example to us all.\" —James Michener\n\n\"(Liz is) the tilt-a-whirl at the State Fair with all the lights on and the music. The only difference between Liz and a tilt-a-whirl is that, with Liz, the ride never comes to an end.\" —Ann Richards\n\n\"...a human dynamo, P.T. Barnum. She could sell anyone the proverbial Brooklyn Bridge or the Washington Monument.\" —Helen Thomas\n\n\"She manages to phrase issues the way people experience them, rather than using all those words that end in t-i-o-n and deaden your brain.\" —Gloria Steinem\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41130504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41130504", "title": "Mersin Citrus Festival", "text": "Mersin Citrus Festival\n\nMersin Citrus Festival () is an annual festival held in Mersin, Turkey.\n\nCitrus is the main crop of Mersin. According to official figures between 2006 and 2009, the total production in Turkey has risen from 3,220,435 tonnes to 3,513,772 tonnes. In the same period the production in Mersin Province has risen from 861,327 tonnes to 1,118,858 tonnes.In 2009, the citrus production in Mersin area consisted of 54% lemon, 29% orange, 14% tangerina and 3% grapefruit.\n\nThe annual Citrus Festival was established in 2010. Each year, the festival is held in a weekend in November. The main purpose of the festival is to promote Mersin citrus and the touristic potential of the city and the surroundings. The festival begins by the short speeches of the trade union speakers, the mayor and the governors. Then, a parade of various life size objects made of citrus and folkloric groups from many foreign countries takes place. Fashion shows and dance shows of the folkloric groups both in the city and in Kızkalesi continue two days long.\n\nAccording to festival page, the foreign participants to the festival in 2013 were Albania, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Ghana, Georgia, Greece, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Moldavia, Montenegro, PROC, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Thailand, and Ukraine, as well as the Autonomous Republic of Adjara, Bashkurdistan, Chechenia and Chuvashia The inauguration of this fourth edition of the festival was presided by Zafer Çağlayan, Minister of Economy of Turkey. The public relations and media activities of this edition were taken care of by the local Turkish company \"Penguen\".\n\nThe following images are from the parade of the 2013 festival\n"}
{"id": "1626362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1626362", "title": "Myofascial trigger point", "text": "Myofascial trigger point\n\nMyofascial trigger points, also known as trigger points, are described as hyperirritable spots in the fascia surrounding skeletal muscle. They are associated with palpable nodules in taut bands of muscle fibers. They are a topic of ongoing controversy, as there is limited data to inform a scientific understanding of the phenomenon. Accordingly, a formal acceptance of myofascial \"knots\" as an identifiable source of pain is more common among bodyworkers, physical therapists, chiropractors, and osteopathic practitioners. Nonetheless, the concept of trigger points provides a framework which may be used to help address certain musculoskeletal pain.\n\nThe trigger point model states that unexplained pain frequently radiates from these points of local tenderness to broader areas, sometimes distant from the trigger point itself. Practitioners claim to have identified reliable referred pain patterns which associate pain in one location with trigger points elsewhere. There is variation in the methodology for diagnosis of trigger points and a dearth of theory to explain how they arise and why they produce specific patterns of referred pain.\n\nCompression of a trigger point may elicit local tenderness, referred pain, or local twitch response. The local twitch response is not the same as a muscle spasm. This is because a muscle spasm refers to the entire muscle contracting whereas the local twitch response also refers to the entire muscle but only involves a small twitch, no contraction.\n\nAmong physicians, various specialists might use trigger point therapy. These include physiatrists (physicians specializing in physical medicine and rehabilitation), family medicine, and orthopedics. Osteopathic as well as chiropractic schools also include trigger points in their training. Other health professionals, such as athletic trainers, occupational therapists, physiotherapists, acupuncturists, massage therapists and structural integrators are also aware of these ideas and many of them make use of trigger points in their clinical work as well.\n\nThe term \"trigger point\" was coined in 1942 by Dr. Janet Travell to describe a clinical finding with the following characteristics:\n\n\nActivation of trigger points may be caused by a number of factors, including acute or chronic muscle overload, activation by other trigger points (key/satellite, primary/secondary), disease, psychological distress (via systemic inflammation), homeostatic imbalances, direct trauma to the region, collision trauma (such as a car crash which stresses many muscles and causes instant trigger points) radiculopathy, infections and health issues such as smoking.\n\nTrigger points form only in muscles. They form as a local contraction in a small number of muscle fibers in a larger muscle or muscle bundle. These in turn can pull on tendons and ligaments associated with the muscle and can cause pain deep within a joint where there are no muscles. The integrated hypothesis theory states that trigger points form from excessive release of acetylcholine which produces sustained depolarization of muscle fibers. Indeed, the trigger point has an abnormal biochemical composition with elevated concentrations of acetylcholine, noradrenaline and serotonin and a lower pH. These sustained contractions of muscle sarcomeres compresses local blood supply restricting the energy needs of the local region. This crisis of energy produces sensitizing substances that interact with some nociceptive (pain) nerves traversing in the local region which in turn can produce localized pain within the muscle at the neuromuscular junction (Travell and Simons 1999).\nWhen trigger points are present in muscles there is often pain and weakness in the associated structures. These pain patterns in muscles follow specific nerve pathways and have been readily mapped to allow for identification of the causative pain factor. Many trigger points have pain patterns that overlap, and some create reciprocal cyclic relationships that need to be treated extensively to remove them.\nPractitioners do not agree on what constitutes a trigger point, but the assessment typically considers symptoms, pain patterns and manual palpation. Usually there is a taut band in muscles containing trigger points, and a hard nodule can be felt. Often a twitch response can be felt in the muscle by running your finger perpendicular to the muscle's direction; this twitch response often activates the \"all or nothing\" response in a muscle that causes it to contract. Pressing on an affected muscle can often refer pain. Clusters of trigger points are not uncommon in some of the larger muscles, such as the gluteus group (gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, and gluteus minimus). Often there is a heat differential in the local area of a trigger point.\n\nA 2007 review of diagnostic criteria used in studies of trigger points concluded that\nA 2009 review of nine studies examining the reliability of trigger point diagnosis found that physical examination could not be recommended as reliable for the diagnosis of trigger points.\n\nA 2008 review in \"Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation\" of two recent studies concludes they present findings that can reduce some of the controversy surrounding the cause and identification of myofascial trigger points (MTPs). The study by Chen on the use of magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) imaging of the taut band of an MTP in an upper trapezius muscle may present a convincing demonstration of the cause of MTP symptoms. MRE is a modification of existing magnetic resonance imaging equipment to image stress produced by adjacent tissues with different degrees of tension. This report presents an MRE image of the taut band that shows the V-shaped signature of the increased tension compared with surrounding tissues. Results were all consistent with the concept that taut bands are detectable and quantifiable with MRE imaging. The findings in the subjects suggest that the stiffness of the taut bands in patients with myofascial pain may be 50% greater than that of the surrounding muscle tissue. The findings suggest that MRE can quantitate asymmetries in muscle tone that could previously only be identified subjectively by examination.\n\nIn the study by Shah and associates, they have shown the feasibility of continuous, in vivo recovery of small molecules from soft tissue without harmful effects. With this technique, they have been able to investigate the biochemistry of muscle in subjects with myofascial trigger points and to contrast this with that of the noninvolved muscle.\n\nThe main innovation of Travell's work was the introduction of the myofascial pain syndrome concept (\"myofascial\" referring to the fascia that surrounds and permeates muscle). This is described as a focal hyperirritability in muscle that can strongly modulate central nervous system functions. Travell and followers distinguish this from fibromyalgia, which is characterized by widespread pain and tenderness and is described as a central augmentation of nociception giving rise to deep tissue tenderness that includes muscles.\nStudies estimate that in 75–95 percent of cases, myofascial pain is a primary cause of regional pain. Myofascial pain is associated with muscle tenderness that arises from trigger points, focal points of tenderness, a few millimeters in diameter, found at multiple sites in a muscle and the fascia of muscle tissue. Biopsy tests found that trigger points were hyperirritable and electrically active muscle spindles in general muscle tissue.\n\nThe misdiagnosis of pain is the most important issue taken up by Travell and Simons. Referred pain from trigger points mimics the symptoms of a very long list of common maladies, but physicians, in weighing all the possible causes for a given condition, rarely consider a myofascial source. The study of trigger points has not historically been part of medical education. Travell and Simons hold that most of the common everyday pain is caused by myofascial trigger points and that ignorance of that basic concept could inevitably lead to false diagnoses and the ultimate failure to deal effectively with pain.\n\nTherapists may use myotherapy (deep pressure as in Bonnie Prudden's approach, massage or tapotement as in Dr. Griner's approach), mechanical vibration, pulsed ultrasound, electrostimulation, ischemic compression, trigger-point-injection (see below), dry-needling, \"spray-and-stretch\" using a cooling spray (vapocoolant), low-level laser therapy and stretching techniques that invoke reciprocal inhibition within the musculoskeletal system. Practitioners may use elbows, feet or various tools to direct pressure directly upon the trigger point, to avoid overuse of their hands.\n\nA successful treatment protocol relies on identifying trigger points, resolving them and, if all trigger points have been deactivated, elongating the structures affected along their natural range of motion and length. In the case of muscles, which is where most treatment occurs, this involves stretching the muscle using combinations of passive, active, active isolated (AIS), muscle energy techniques (MET), and proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) stretching to be effective. Fascia surrounding muscles should also be treated to elongate and resolve strain patterns, otherwise muscles will simply be returned to positions where trigger points are likely to re-develop.\n\nThe results of manual therapy are related to the skill level of the therapist. If trigger points are pressed too short a time, they may activate or remain active; if pressed too long or hard, they may be irritated or the muscle may be bruised, resulting in pain in the area treated. This bruising may last for a 1–3 days after treatment, and may feel like, but is not similar to, delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), the pain felt days after overexerting muscles. Pain is also common after a massage if the practitioner uses pressure on unnoticed latent or active trigger points, or is not skilled in myofascial trigger point therapy.\n\nResearchers of evidence-based medicine concluded as of 2001 that evidence for the usefulness of trigger points in the diagnosis of fibromyalgia is thin. More recently, an association has been made between fibromyalgia tender points and active trigger points.\n\nInjections without anesthetics, or dry needling, and injections including saline, local anesthetics such as procaine hydrochloride (Novocain) or articaine without vasoconstrictors like epinephrine, steroids, and botulinum toxin provide more immediate relief and can be effective when other methods fail. In regards to injections with anesthetics, a low concentration, short acting local anesthetic such as procaine 0.5% without steroids or epinephrine is recommended. High concentrations or long acting local anesthetics as well as epinephrine can cause muscle necrosis, while use of steroids can cause tissue damage.\n\nDespite the concerns about long acting agents, a mixture of lidocaine and marcaine is often used. A mixture of 1 part 2% lidocaine with 3 parts 0.5% bupivacaine (trade name:Marcaine) provides 0.5% lidocaine and 0.375% bupivacaine. This has the advantages of immediate anesthesia with lidocaine during injection to minimize injection pain while providing a longer duration of action with a lowered concentration of bupivacaine.\n\nIn 1979, a study by Czech physician Karl Lewit reported that dry needling had the same success rate as anesthetic injections for the treatment of trigger points. He dubbed this the 'needle effect'.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, studies relevant to trigger points were done by J. H. Kellgren at University College Hospital, London, in the 1930s and, independently, by Michael Gutstein in Berlin and Michael Kelly in Australia. \n\nHealth insurance companies in the US such as Blue Cross, Medica, and HealthPartners began covering trigger point injections in 2005.\n\nTreatment, whether by self or by a professional, has some inherent dangers. It may lead to damage of soft tissue and other organs. The trigger points in the upper quadratus lumborum, for instance, are very close to the kidneys and poorly administered treatment (particularly injections) may lead to kidney damage. Likewise, treating the masseter muscle may damage the salivary glands superficial to this muscle. Furthermore, some experts believe trigger points may develop as a protective measure against unstable joints.\n\nStudies to date on the efficacy of dry needling for MTrPs and pain have been too small to be conclusive.\n\nIn a June 2000 review, Chang-Zern Hong correlates the MTrP \"tender points\" to acupunctural \"ah shi\" (\"Oh Yes!\") points, and the \"local twitch response\" to acupuncture's \"de qi\" (\"needle sensation\"), based on a 1977 paper by Melzack \"et al.\" Peter Dorsher comments on a strong correlation between the locations of trigger points and classical acupuncture points, finding that 92% of the 255 trigger points correspond to acupuncture points, including 79.5% with similar pain indications.\n\n"}
{"id": "5131777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5131777", "title": "Niihau incident", "text": "Niihau incident\n\nThe Niihau incident occurred on December 7–13, 1941, when Imperial Japanese Navy Air Service pilot Shigenori Nishikaichi (西開地 重徳 \"Nishikaichi Shigenori\") crash-landed his Zero on the Hawaiian island of Niihau after participating in the attack on Pearl Harbor. He was killed in a struggle with people on the island.\n\nThe island's Native Hawaiian residents were initially unaware of the attack, but apprehended Nishikaichi when the gravity of the situation became apparent. Nishikaichi then sought and received the assistance of the three Hawaiian locals of Japanese descent on the island in overcoming his captors, finding weapons, and taking several hostages. Eventually, Nishikaichi was killed by Niihauans Benehakaka \"Ben\" Kanahele and Kealoha \"Ella\" Kanahele; Ben Kanahele was wounded in the process, and one of Nishikaichi's supporters, Yoshio Harada, committed suicide.\n\nBen Kanahele was decorated for his part in stopping the takeover, but Ella Kanahele received no official recognition.\n\nNiihau, the westernmost and second smallest of the primary Hawaiian Islands, has been privately owned by the Robinsons, a white \"kamaaina\" family, since 1864. At the time of the incident, it had 136 inhabitants, almost all of whom were Native Hawaiians whose first language was Hawaiian. In 1941 the owner was Aylmer Robinson, a Harvard University graduate who was fluent in Hawaiian. Robinson ran the island without interference from any government authority, and although he lived on the nearby island of Kauai, he made weekly visits by boat to Niihau. The island was only accessible with permission from Robinson, which was almost never given except to friends or relatives of Niihauans. The handful of non-native residents included three of Japanese ancestry: \"issei\" Ishimatsu Shintani and Hawaiian-born \"nisei\" Yoshio and Irene Harada, all of whom were involved in the incident.\n\nPrior to the Pearl Harbor attack, the Imperial Japanese Navy had designated Niihau, mistakenly believed to be uninhabited, as a location for aircraft damaged in the attack to land. Pilots were told they could wait on the island until they were rescued by submarine.\n\nOn December 7, 1941, Airman First Class Shigenori Nishikaichi (c. 1919 – December 13, 1941), who had taken part in the second wave of the Pearl Harbor attack, crash-landed his battle-damaged aircraft, an A6M2 Zero \"B11-120\" from the carrier \"Hiryu\", in a Niihau field near where Hawila Kaleohano (1912–1986), a native Hawaiian, was standing. Kaleohano was unaware of the attack at Pearl Harbor, but knew from newspapers that the relationship between the U.S. and Japan was poor due to Japanese expansionism and the U.S. oil embargo on Japan. Recognizing Nishikaichi and his plane as Japanese, Kaleohano thought it prudent to relieve the pilot of his pistol and papers before the dazed airman could react. He and the other Hawaiians who gathered about treated the pilot with courtesy and the traditional Hawaiian hospitality, even throwing a party for him later that Sunday afternoon. However, the Hawaiians could not understand Nishikaichi, who spoke only Japanese with a limited amount of English. They sent for Japanese-born Ishimatsu Shintani (an \"issei\"), who was married to a native Hawaiian, to translate.\n\nHaving been briefed on the situation beforehand and approaching the task with evident distaste, Shintani exchanged just a few words with the pilot and departed without explanation. The puzzled Hawaiians then sent for Yoshio Harada, who was born in Hawaii of Japanese ancestry, and his wife Irene (Irene was \"issei\"), both of whom constituted the remainder of the Niihau population of Japanese ancestry. Nishikaichi informed Harada of the attack on Pearl Harbor, a revelation Harada thought prudent not to share with the non-Japanese natives. Nishikaichi desperately wanted his papers returned, which he had been told should by no means fall into American hands, but Kaleohano refused to return them. The Haradas decided to assist Nishikaichi in retrieving his papers and escaping.\n\nNiihau had neither electricity nor telephones, but later that night, the Hawaiians heard a radio report about the Pearl Harbor attack on a battery-operated radio. The Hawaiians confronted the pilot, and this time Harada translated what was said about the attack. The owner of the island, Aylmer Robinson, was scheduled to arrive on his regular weekly trip from Kauai, a much larger island just away, the next morning. It was decided that the pilot would return to Kauai with Robinson.\n\nRobinson did not arrive on Monday because the U.S. military had instituted a ban on boat traffic in the islands within hours of the attack. Nor did he arrive in the following days. The Niʻihauans, knowing nothing of the ban, were puzzled and very uneasy that the normally dependable Robinson had not been seen since the attack. The Haradas’ request to have the pilot stay with them was agreed to, but with a contingent of four guards. There was now ample opportunity for the Haradas to converse with Nishikaichi.\n\nAt four o’clock on December 12, Shintani approached Kaleohano in private with about $200 in cash, which was a huge sum for the Niʻihauans. He tried to buy the pilot's papers, but Kaleohano again refused. Shintani unhappily departed, saying there would be trouble if the papers were not returned, that it was a matter of life and death. Harada and Nishikaichi, not waiting for Shintani's return, attacked the lone guard who had been posted outside the Harada residence, while Irene Harada, Yoshio's wife, played music on a phonograph to cover up the sounds of the struggle. Three other guards were stationed to watch the Harada residence, but were not present at the time of the attack. The guard was locked in a warehouse, where Harada acquired a shotgun and the pilot's pistol that had previously been stored there. Thus armed, they proceeded to Kaleohano's house.\nHaving parted from Shintani only five or ten minutes before, Kaleohano was in his outhouse when he saw Harada and Nishikaichi coming, together with a 16-year-old captive that they prodded along with a gun. Kaleohano stayed hidden in the outhouse, and the conspirators, unable to find him, turned their attention to the nearby plane. Seeing his opportunity, Kaleohano burst out of the outhouse. He heard \"Stop! Stop!\" and the boom of a shotgun as he ran for his life. Kaleohano alerted the residents of the nearby village, warning them to evacuate. Many could not believe that their good friend and neighbor, Harada, whom they knew so well and who had been living among them for almost three years, could do the things that Kaleohano related. When the captive guard escaped and reached the village, the residents fled – the women and children to caves, thickets and distant beaches.\n\nRobinson had come to know that there was trouble on Niihau because the Niihauans had flashed signals toward Kauai with kerosene lanterns and reflectors. Meanwhile, Nishikaichi unsuccessfully attempted to make contact with the Japanese military using the downed aircraft's radio. With the help of Harada and one of their Hawaiian captives, they removed at least one of the two 7.7 mm machine guns on board the Japanese fighter plane with some ammunition, torched the plane, and proceeded to Kaleohano's house, which they set ablaze at about 3 a.m. in a final effort to destroy Nishikaichi's papers, which included maps, radio codes, and Pearl Harbor attack plans.\n\nDuring the night, another Ni’ihau resident, Kaahakila Kalimahuluhulu, known as Kalima, had also been taken captive. He was released to help search for Kaleohano, who had escaped with Nishikaichi's papers. Instead, Kalima enlisted his friend Benehakaka \"Ben\" Kanahele to sneak back in the darkness to steal the machine guns and ammunition. That morning, Saturday, December 13, Harada and Nishikaichi captured Kanahele and his wife, Kealoha \"Ella\" Kanahele (1907–1974), also natives of the island. They ordered Kanahele to find Kaleohano, keeping Ella as a hostage. Kanahele knew that Kaleohano was rowing toward Kauai but made a pretense of looking for him. He soon became concerned about Ella and returned to her. Nishikaichi realized he was being deceived. Harada told Kanahele that the pilot would kill him and everyone in the village if Kaleohano was not found.\n\nKanahele and his wife, taking advantage of the fatigue and discouragement of his two captors, leapt at them as the pilot handed the shotgun to Harada. When Nishikaichi pulled his pistol out of his boot, Ella Kanahele grabbed his arm and brought it down. Harada pulled her off the pilot, who then shot Ben Kanahele three times: in the groin, stomach, and upper leg. However, Kanahele was still able to pick up Nishikaichi, in the same manner that he hoisted the sheep that were commercially raised on the island, and hurl the pilot into a stone wall. Ella Kanahele then bashed him in the head with a rock, and Ben slit his throat with his hunting knife. Harada then turned the shotgun on himself, committing suicide.\n\nAfter the incident, Ella Kanahele went for help, dropping the shotgun and the pistol on the way. (About five years later, a flood washed the shotgun into a wall where it was found by islanders. The pistol and one of the machine guns were never found.) Ben Kanahele was taken to Waimea Hospital on Kauai to recuperate; he was awarded the Medal for Merit and the Purple Heart, but his wife did not receive any official recognition.\n\nThe next afternoon, December 14, the military authorities, the six Hawaiians who had rowed to Kauai, and Robinson arrived together.\n\nThe grieving Irene Harada and Ishimatsu Shintani were taken into custody. Shintani was sent to an internment camp and later rejoined his family on Niihau, where he attained U.S. citizenship in 1960.\n\nIrene Harada was imprisoned for 31 months, being released in June 1944. She was never charged with treason, nor any other crime resulting from the incident. She maintained her innocence, but added in a 1992 interview with Japanese television that she felt sorry for the pilot and wanted to help him. She moved to the island of Kauai. Mitsuo Fuchida, a naval commander during the attack on Pearl Harbor and later a Christian evangelist who settled in the U.S., visited her after his short trip to Ni'ihau Island.\n\nComposer R. Alex Anderson was inspired by the incident to compose \"They Couldn't Take Niihau, Nohow!\" It was played on August 15, 1945, when Kanahele was decorated for the part he played in defending his country by Lieutenant General Robert C. Richardson at Army Headquarters, Fort Shafter, Honolulu.\n\nHistorian Gordon Prange notes that it was \"the rapidity with which the three resident Japanese went over to the pilot's cause\" which troubled the Hawaiians. \"The more pessimistic among them cited the Niihau incident as proof that no one could trust any Japanese, even if an American citizen, not to go over to Japan if it appeared expedient.\"\n\nNovelist William Hallstead argues that the Niihau incident had an influence on decisions leading to the Japanese American internment. According to Hallstead, the behavior of Shintani and the Haradas were included in an official Navy report dated January 26, 1942. Its author, Navy Lieutenant C. B. Baldwin, wrote, \"The fact that the two Niihau Japanese who had previously shown no anti-American tendencies went to the aid of the pilot when Japanese domination of the island seemed possible, indicate[s] [the] likelihood that Japanese residents previously believed loyal to the United States may aid Japan if further Japanese attacks appear successful.\"\n\nThe coastal town of Hashihama, Imabari, Ehime, Japan, erected a 12-foot granite cenotaph in their native son's honor when it was still believed that he had perished the day of the attack, December 7, 1941. For many years Nishikaichi's remains were that of an unknown Japanese soldier, and it was not until 1956 that the circumstances of his death were revealed to his family and his ashes claimed by them. Engraved on the column is what was believed at the time: \"Having expended every effort, he achieved the greatest honor of all by dying a soldier's death in battle, destroying both himself and his beloved plane... His meritorious deed will live forever.\" In June, 2017 the pilot's nafuda, a set of seven wooden sticks that carried the names of Airman 1st Class Nishikaichi’s colleagues, the identifying markings of his Zero, and his administrative command, were returned to his family in Japan.\n\nBoth the remains of Nishikaichi's Zero and those of the old tractor he used to travel to the boat landing are on permanent display at the Pacific Aviation Museum Pearl Harbor on Ford Island in Pearl Harbor. A Japanese-American group in Hawaii criticized the original design of the museum display. Threatening to have federal funds withheld, they demanded that the museum remove mention of the Haradas from the display. The Robinson family was very unhappy with the censorship of the information about the Haradas, especially since they had donated the aircraft and tractor pieces based on what they were told about how the display would read. The exhibit does state that Yoshio Harada committed suicide after the incident but does not mention his wife.\n\n"}
{"id": "11057936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11057936", "title": "Onzelievehereboom", "text": "Onzelievehereboom\n\nOnzelievehereboom was the name of a 1200-year-old oak tree in Kortessem, Belgium, dedicated by popular piety to \"Onze Lieve Here\", \"Our Dear Lord\". It was believed to be the oldest tree in Belgium when it was overthrown by a storm 18 July 2009.\n"}
{"id": "33973706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33973706", "title": "PALME Middle East", "text": "PALME Middle East\n\nPALME Middle East is Middle East’s longest standing trade show for the professional sound, light, audio visual, music, entertainment and systems integration industries. The show has over 5000 visitors. The exhibition is for products and services including equipment, systems and software for projects in the professional entertainment, event, construction and installation sectors.\n\nThe show has two further sub sections, INSTALL and MUSAC, each of which caters for a targeted sector of the industry. PALME Middle East is organized by Informa Exhibitions, the organisers of Arab Health, and takes place at the Dubai International Convention Centre(DICEC). The show is co-located with the Middle East EVENT Show. INSTALL presents AV installation and integration technologies, and MUSAC is a regional forum for traditional and contemporary musical instruments and accessories.\n\nThe PALME Middle East DJ Competition, founded in 2003, is an annual open competition which takes the form of several live heats in the weeks preceding the PALME Middle East exhibition, with the live finals taking place during the show itself. The competition is judged by a panel of local DJs and industry experts. DJ Pete Martin was responsible for the competition from its launch in 2003 to 2008 respectively. 2013 will see the competition in its 10th year.\n\nAlongside the exhibition, PALME Middle East runs a series of technically focussed educational seminars and workshops. In previous years, the PALME educational programme has taken the form of a paid for conference, but from 2012 the seminars are free to attend. In 2011, the conference was split into three streams: lighting, projection technology and home automation\n\nThe PALME Awards ceremony is an annual awards event that runs alongside PALME Middle East, for achievement within the professional sound, light, audio visual, music, entertainment and systems integration industries. In 2011 the PALME Awards comprised the following categories:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32458473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32458473", "title": "Paris Conference", "text": "Paris Conference\n\nParis Conference may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "18109430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18109430", "title": "Poplifugia", "text": "Poplifugia\n\nThe poplifugia or populifugia (Latin: \"the day of the people's flight\"), was a festival of ancient Rome celebrated on July 5, according to Varro, in commemoration of the flight of the Romans, when the inhabitants of Ficuleae and Fidenae appeared in arms against them, shortly after the burning of the city by the Gauls (see Battle of the Allia); the traditional victory of the Romans, which followed, was commemorated on July 7 (called the \"Nonae Caprotinae \" as a feast of Juno Caprotina), and on the next day was the Vitulatio, supposed to mark the thank-offering of the pontifices for the event. Macrobius, who wrongly places the Poplifugia on the \"nones\", says that it commemorated a flight before the Tuscans, while Dionysius refers its origin to the time when the patricians murdered Romulus after the people had fled from a public assembly on account of rain and darkness.\n\n"}
{"id": "13957822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13957822", "title": "Red Dog Saloon (Virginia City, Nevada)", "text": "Red Dog Saloon (Virginia City, Nevada)\n\nThe Red Dog Saloon is a bar and live music venue located in the isolated, old-time mining town of Virginia City, Nevada which played an important role in the history of the psychedelic music scene. \n\nFolk music enthusiast Mark Unobsky bought the old Henry Comstock house in Virginia City, and decided to open a folk club together with Chandler A. Laughlin III (1937-2012), a one-time folk club owner, and Don Works in the early 1960s.\n\nIn April 1963, Chandler established a kind of family identity among approximately fifty people who attended the traditional, all-night Native American peyote ceremony. This ceremony combined a psychedelic experience with traditional Native American spiritual values; these people went on to sponsor a new genre of musical expression at the venue.\n\nDuring the summer of 1965, Laughlin (better known in media as \"Travus T. Hipp\", a disc jockey and news commentator,) recruited much of the original talent that led to a mix of traditional folk music and psychedelic rock. He and his friends created what became known as \"The Red Dog Experience,\" featuring previously unknown musical acts — Big Brother and the Holding Company, The Charlatans, The Wildflower and others — who played in the refurbished saloon during 1965 - 66. There was no clear delineation between \"performers\" and \"audience\" in \"The Red Dog Experience,\" during which music, psychedelic experimentation and Bill Ham's first primitive light shows combined to create a new sense of community. Laughlin and George Hunter of the Charlatans were termed \"proto-hippies\", with their long hair, boots and clothing of a distinctly Native American heritage.\n\nThe poster for the first six-week stint of performances from The Charlatans beginning in June 1965 is a rare psychedelic poster. It is known as \"The Seed\".\n\nLSD manufacturer Owsley Stanley lived in Berkeley during 1965 and provided much of the LSD that became a part of the \"Red Dog Experience\". At the saloon, The Charlatans were the first psychedelic rock band to play live on LSD.\n\nToday the venue features Open Mic on Wednesday evenings and live performances on the weekends.\n\n"}
{"id": "36794650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36794650", "title": "Rock of Ages Festival", "text": "Rock of Ages Festival\n\nThe Rock of Ages Festival is a music festival held every October in Calistoga, California, United States. It was established in 1999 and has grown to become one of Northern California's biggest rock festivals. Rock of Ages Festival presents speakers and music on four stages ranging in style from rock, rap, and Reggae to punk, big band, Latino, and more. The Rock of Ages Festival also presents workshops on subjects from marriage and relationships, to creation science and local ministry.\n\nRock of Ages Festival has alternative stages featuring sports shows including a skate park and pro skateboarders, BMX teams, motocross performers, sword swallowers, break dance teams, and more. In addition there is a Latino stage with Hispanic music and speakers, and a children's stage with entertainment, performances and interactive speakers featuring messages for families and kids.\n\nRock of Ages Festival has many vendors featuring a multitude of wares, services and food, mission projects, opportunities to take foreign mission trips, and organizations that support sponsoring needy children of the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSteve Taylor & The Perfect Foil\nThe Red Roots\n\nAvion Blackman\nAsante Choir\nCurtis Zackery\nVic Murphy\nRabbi Eric Carlson\n\nBrad Butcher\nWhosoever South\nNEEDTOBREATHE\n\nMarc Mero\nGeorgina Verzal\nJeff Gillman\nJeff Devoll\nDan Biddle\nDave Bisbee\n\nxxxchurch\n"}
{"id": "6396759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6396759", "title": "Shrewsbury Flower Show", "text": "Shrewsbury Flower Show\n\nThe Shrewsbury Flower Show is an annual event held in mid-August over two days (in recent times the second Friday and Saturday of the month) at The Quarry, the main park in the town of Shrewsbury, the county town of Shropshire, England. The show is organised by the Shropshire Horticultural Society and is one of the largest events of its type in the United Kingdom. It is also one of the longest-running shows in the country and featured in the 2005 \"Guinness Book of Records\" as the \"longest-running flower show\" in the world.\n\nThe show is set out under a large number of marquees over the land area of The Quarry and notable features include: the display of flowers, fruit and vegetables; the sale of arts and crafts and three military bands, show jumping, various forms of music and entertainment, which includes a large firework display on both evenings. The show typically attracts around 60,000 visitors over two days.\nChef celebrities, such as James Martin and 'The Hairy Bikers', annually practice demonstrations to the public.\n\nOfficial Shrewsbury Flower Show Website - Shrewsbury Flower Show Website\n"}
{"id": "27936150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27936150", "title": "Six-Day War (2000)", "text": "Six-Day War (2000)\n\nThe Six-Day War (language-french|Guerre des Six Jours) was a series of armed confrontations between Ugandan and Rwandan Army Rwandan forces around the city of Kisangani in the Democratic Republic of the Congo from the 5th to the 10th of June 2000. The war formed part of the wider Second Congo War (1998–2003).\n\nKisangani was also a scene of violence between Rwandan and Ugandan troops in August 1999 and 5 May 2000. However, the conflicts of June 2000 were the most lethal and seriously damaged a large part of the city, with more than 6,600 rounds fired.\n\nAccording to \"Justice et Libération\", a human rights organisation based in Kisangani, the violence resulted in around 1,000 deaths and wounded many civilians.\n\n"}
{"id": "520635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=520635", "title": "Solifugae", "text": "Solifugae\n\nSolifugae is an order of animals in the class Arachnida known variously as camel spiders, wind scorpions, sun spiders, or solifuges. The order includes more than 1,000 described species in about 153 genera. Despite the common names, they are neither true scorpions (order Scorpiones) nor true spiders (order Araneae). Much like a spider, the body of a solifugid has two tagmata: an opisthosoma (abdomen) behind the prosoma (that is, in effect, a combined head and thorax). At the front end, the prosoma bears two chelicerae that, in most species, are conspicuously large. The chelicerae serve as jaws and in many species also are used for stridulation. Unlike scorpions, solifugids do not have a third tagma that forms a \"tail\". Most species of Solifugae live in dry climates and feed opportunistically on ground-dwelling arthropods and other small animals. The largest species grow to a length of , including legs. A number of urban legends exaggerate the size and speed of the Solifugae, and their potential danger to humans, which is negligible.\n\nSolifugae are moderately small to large arachnids (a few millimeters to several centimeters in body length), with the larger species reaching in length, including legs. In practice, the respective lengths of the legs of various species differ drastically, so the resulting figures are often misleading. More practical measurements refer primarily to the body length, quoting leg lengths separately, if at all. The body length is up to . Most species are closer to long, and some small species are under in head-plus-body length when mature.\n\nLike that of the spider order, the Araneae, the body plan of the Solifugae has two main tagmata: the prosoma, or cephalothorax, is the anterior tagma, and the 10-segmented abdomen, or opisthosoma, is the posterior tagma. As shown in the illustrations, the solifugid prosoma and opisthosoma are not separated by nearly as clear a constriction and connecting tube or \"pedicel\" as occurs in \"true spiders\", the order Araneae. The lack of the pedicel reflects another difference between the Solifugae and spiders, namely that solifugids lack both spinnerets and silk, and do not spin webs. Spiders need considerable mobility of their abdomens in their spinning activities, and the Solifugae have no need for any such adaptation.\n\nThe prosoma comprises the head, the mouthparts, and the somites that bear the legs and the pedipalps. The alternative name \"cephalothorax\" reflects the fact that the prosoma includes the parts that in insects form the head plus the thorax. Though it is not split into two clear tagmata, the prosoma does have a large, relatively well-defined anterior carapace, bearing the animal's eyes and chelicerae, while a smaller posterior section bears the legs.\n\nLike pseudoscorpions and harvestmen, the Solifugae lack book lungs, having instead a well-developed tracheal system that inhales and exhales air through three pairs of slits on the animal's underside.\n\nAmong the most distinctive features of the Solifugae are their large chelicerae, which in many species are longer than the prosoma. Each of the two chelicerae has two articles (segments, parts connected by a joint), forming a powerful pincer, much like that of a crab; each article bears a variable number of teeth, largely depending on the species. The chelicerae of many species are surprisingly strong; they are capable of shearing hair or feathers from vertebrate prey or carrion, and of cutting through skin and thin bones such as those of small birds. Many Solifugae stridulate with their chelicerae, producing a rattling noise.\n\nLike most other arachnids, although Solifugae appear to have five pairs of legs, only the hind four pairs actually are \"true\" legs. Each true leg has seven segments: coxa, trochanter, femur, patella, tibia, metatarsus, and tarsus.\n\nThe first, or anterior, of the five pairs of leg-like appendages are not \"actual\" legs, but pedipalps, and they have only five segments each. The pedipalps of the Solifugae function partly as sense organs similar to insects' antennae, and partly in locomotion, feeding, and fighting. In normal locomotion, they do not quite touch the ground, but are held out to detect obstacles and prey; in that attitude, they look particularly like an extra pair of legs or perhaps arms. Reflecting the great dependence of the Solifugae on their tactile senses, their anterior true legs commonly are smaller and thinner than the posterior three pairs. That smaller anterior pair acts largely in a sensory role as a supplement to the pedipalps, and in many species they accordingly lack tarsi. At the tips of their pedipalps, Solifugae bear eversible adhesive organs, which they may use to capture flying prey, and which at least some species certainly use for climbing smooth surfaces.\nFor the most part, only the posterior three pairs of legs are used for running. On the undersides of the coxae and trochanters of the last pair of legs, Solifugae have fan-shaped sensory organs called malleoli or racquet (or racket) organs. Sometimes, the blades of the malleoli are directed forward, sometimes not. They have been suspected to be sensory organs for the detection of vibrations in the soil, perhaps to detect threats and potential prey or mates. These structures may be chemoreceptors.\n\nMales are usually smaller than females, with relatively longer legs. Unlike females, the males bear a pair of flagella, one on each chelicera. In the accompanying photograph of a male solifugid, one flagellum is just visible near the tip of each chelicera. The flagella, which bend back over the chelicerae, are sometimes called horns and are believed to have some sexual connection, but their function has not yet been clearly explained.\n\nSome species have very large central eyes. They look like simple eyes or ocelli, and are surprisingly sophisticated. They can recognise forms, and are used in hunting and avoiding enemies. These eyes are remarkable in their internal anatomy; . In contrast, lateral eyes are absent in many species, and where they are present at all, they are only rudimentary.\n\nThe Solifugae are an order of their own, though are sometimes confused with spiders, which form a completely distinct order, the Araneae. The order comprises over 1000 described species in 153 genera assigned to the following 12 families:\n\nThe family Protosolpugidae is only known from one fossil species from the Pennsylvanian.\n\nAlthough the Solifugae are considered to be endemic indicators of desert biomes, they occur widely in semidesert and scrub. Some species also live in grassland or forest habitats. Solifugae generally inhabit warm and arid habitats, including virtually all warm deserts and scrublands in all continents except Antarctica and Australia.\n\nSolifugae are carnivorous or omnivorous, with most species feeding on termites, darkling beetles, and other small, ground-dwelling arthropods. Solifuges are aggressive hunters and voracious opportunistic feeders and have been recorded as feeding on snakes, small lizards, and rodents. Prey is located with the pedipalps and killed and cut into pieces by the chelicerae. The prey is then liquefied and the liquid ingested through the pharynx. Although they do not normally attack humans, their chelicerae can penetrate human skin, and painful bites have been reported.\n\nVarious other predators, such as the large slit-faced bat, scorpions, toads, and insectivores, may prey on Solifugae.\n\nSolifugae are typically univoltine. Reproduction can involve direct or indirect sperm transfer; when indirect, the male emits a spermatophore on the ground and then inserts it with his chelicerae in the female's genital pore. To do this, he flings the female on her back.\n\nThe female then digs a burrow, into which she lays 50 to 200 eggs – some species then guard them until they hatch. Because the female does not feed during this time, she will try to fatten herself beforehand, and a species of has been observed to eat more than 100 flies during that time in the laboratory. Solifugae undergo a number of stages including, egg, postembryo, 9–10 nymphal instars, and adults.\n\nThe name Solifugae derives from Latin, and means \"those that flee from the sun\". The order is also known by the names Solpugida, Solpugides, Solpugae, Galeodea, and Mycetophorae. Their common names include camel spider, wind scorpion, scorpion carrier, jerrymunglum, sun scorpion, and sun spider. In southern Africa, they are known by a host of names, including red romans, ' (\"hair cutters\") and ' (\"beard cutters\"), the latter two relating to the belief they use their formidable jaws to clip hair from humans and animals to line their subterranean nests.\n\nSolifugids have been recognised as distinct taxa from ancient times. The Greeks recognized that they were distinct from spiders; spiders were called (\"arachne\") while Solifugae were named (\"phalangion\"). In Aelian's \"De natura animalium\", they are mistakenly mentioned, along with scorpions, as responsible for the abandoning of a country in Ethiopia. Anton August Heinrich Lichtenstein theorised in 1797 that the \"mice\" that plagued the Philistines in the Old Testament were Solifugae. During World War I, troops stationed in Abū Qīr, Egypt, would stage fights between captive \"jerrymanders,\" as they referred to them, and placed bets on the outcome. Similarly, British troops stationed in Libya in World War II would stage fights between solifugids and scorpions.\n\nSolifugae are the subject of many legends and exaggerations about their size, speed, behaviour, appetite, and lethality. They are not especially large, the biggest having a leg span of about . They are fast on land compared to other invertebrates, with their top speed estimated to be , close to one-half as fast as the fastest human sprinter.\n\nThe Solifugae apparently have neither venom glands nor any venom-delivery apparatus such as the fangs of spiders, stings of wasps, or venomous setae of caterpillars (e.g., \"Lonomia\" or \"Acharia\" species). One 1978 study is frequently quoted, in which the authors report detection of an exception to this rule in India, in that \"Rhagodes nigrocinctus\" had venom glands, and that injection of the secretion into mice was frequently fatal. However, no supporting studies have confirmed either statement, such as by independent detection of the glands as claimed, or the relevance of the observations, if correct. Even the authors of the original account denied having found any means of delivery of the putative venom by the animal, and the only means of administering the material to the mice was by parenteral injection. Given that many non-venoms such as saliva, blood and glandular secretions can be lethal if injected, and that no venomous function was even speculated upon in this study, there is still no evidence for even one venomous species of solifugid.\n\nBecause of their unfamiliar spider-like appearance and rapid movements, Solifugae have startled or even frightened many people. This fear was sufficient to drive a family from their home when one was discovered in a soldier's house in Colchester, England, and caused the family to blame the solifugid for the death of their pet dog. An Arizona resident developed painful lesions due to a claimed solifugid bite, but could not produce a specimen for confirmation. Though they are not venomous, the powerful chelicerae of a large specimen may inflict a painful nip, but nothing medically significant.\n\nCamel Spider Feeding by Stefan F. Wirth\n\n"}
{"id": "28251269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28251269", "title": "Soviet Union legislative election, 1984", "text": "Soviet Union legislative election, 1984\n\nElections to the Supreme Soviet were held in the Soviet Union on 4 March 1984. They were the last in the Soviet Union to be held before Mikhail Gorbachev's policies of perestroika and demokratizatsiya resulted in partially free elections in 1989. They were also the last direct elections to the Supreme Soviet, as in 1989 deputies were elected to the Congress of People's Deputies, who then elected the Supreme Soviet.\n\nCandidates had to be nominated by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) or by a public organisation. However, all public organisations were controlled by the party and were subservient to a 1931 law that required them to accept party rule. The CPSU itself remained the only legal one in the country. \n\nVoters could vote against the CPSU candidate, but could only do so by using polling booths, whereas votes for the party could be cast simply by submitting a blank ballot. Turnout was required to be over 50% for the election to be valid.\n\nCPSU candidates accounted for around three quarters of the nominees, whilst many of the others were members of Komsomol.\n\nWith over 184 million Soviet citizens voting in the election, over 99% of the votes went to a deputy to the Supreme Soviet, with over 100,000 votes against Party candidates.\n"}
{"id": "44145687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44145687", "title": "Submarine Parachute Assistance Group", "text": "Submarine Parachute Assistance Group\n\nThe Royal Navy's Submarine Parachute Assistance Group is a team who provide a rescue support capability to submarine sinking incidents worldwide, available at short notice.\n\nThe Submarine Parachute Assistance Group was originally formed from staff of the RN Submarine Escape Training Tank at HMS Dolphin in Gosport, Hampshire. The SETT was part of the RN Submarine School, providing wet training in submarine escape drills for both new submariners and those requiring periodic requalification. With the move of the school to HMS Raleigh in Cornwall, in 1999, the SPAG remained at the SETT until the cessation of wet training in 2009. At that point the SPAG was moved to HMS Raleigh.\n\nOn 19 November 2017, the SPAG were deployed to HMS \"Protector\" in aid of international search efforts for the missing Argentinian submarine .\n\nThe team is made up of instructor personnel from the Royal Navy Submarine School. Members of the group are trained submariners or medical staff posted to the school, subsequently trained in water entry parachute skills. Prior to the cessation of training in the SETT some members of SPAG were trained in diving skills.\n\nThe SPAG can be activated at 6 hours notice, to fly to a submarine sinking incident, regardless of the operator of the vessel. The team may work in conjunction with the NATO Submarine Rescue System.\n\nThe team is configured to enter the water at the location of the incident, using a static line from the rear ramp of the aircraft. Equipment pods dropped with the team contain Rigid-hulled inflatable boats, life rafts, food, water and medical supplies. This equipment allows the team to establish an afloat reception package for submariners evacuating the sunken vessel, in order to provide medical and life support.\n\nMembers of the SPAG are trained in basic parachuting and entitled to wear the Parachute Badge.\n"}
{"id": "3457639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3457639", "title": "The Elephant Man (play)", "text": "The Elephant Man (play)\n\nThe Elephant Man is a play by Bernard Pomerance. It premiered at the Hampstead Theatre in London on 7 November 1977. It later played in repertory at the National Theatre in London. It ran Off-Broadway from 14 January to 18 March 1979, at The Theatre at St. Peter's. The production's Broadway debut in 1979 at the Booth Theatre was produced by Richmond Crinkley and Nelle Nugent, and directed by Jack Hofsiss. The play closed in 1981 after eight previews and 916 regular performances.\nThe story is based on the life of Joseph Merrick, referred to in the script as John Merrick, who lived in the Victorian era and is known for the extreme deformity of his body. The lead role of Merrick was originated by David Schofield in a definitive performance. Subsequent productions starred actors including Philip Anglim, David Bowie, Mark Hamill, Bruce Davison, and Bradley Cooper.\n\nThe play calls for no prosthetic makeup on the actor portraying Merrick; the actor portrays Merrick's deformity through physicality, letting the audience imagine Merrick's appearance.\n\n\"The Elephant Man\" opens with Frederick Treves, an up-and-coming surgeon, meeting his new employer Francis Carr-Gomm, the administrator of the London Hospital.\n\nRoss, the manager of a freak show, invites a crowd on Whitechapel Road to come view John Merrick, the Elephant Man. Treves happens upon the freak show and is intrigued by Merrick's disorder. He insists that he must study Merrick further; Ross agrees, for a fee. Ross then gives a lecture on Merrick's anatomy, making Merrick stand on display while Treves describes his condition to the audience.\n\nThe freak show travels to Brussels after being driven out of London by the police. Merrick tries to converse with three freak show \"pinheads\", or people suffering from microcephaly and mental retardation. The \"pinheads\" go onstage to sing \"We Are the Queens of the Congo\", but the police will not allow Merrick to perform, because they consider his condition \"indecent\". Ross decides that Merrick is more trouble than he is worth, steals his savings, and sends him back to London.\n\nWhen Merrick arrives in London, his appearance incites a crowd to riot. The train's conductor and a policeman are able to fetch Treves to calm the situation. Treves takes Merrick to the London Hospital and interviews a woman, Nurse Sandwich, for the position of Merrick's caretaker. Sandwich assures Treves that she has cared for lepers in Africa and is quite prepared for anything. However, when she sees Merrick taking a bath, she bolts from the room and refuses to take the job.\n\nBishop How visits Merrick and declares him a \"true Christian in the rough\". He tells Treves he would like to educate Merrick in religion. Carr-Gomm argues with Bishop How about the importance of science versus the importance of religion. Carr-Gomm announces that, due to a letter he had printed in \"The Times\", the people of London have donated enough money to allow Merrick to live at the hospital for life. Treves tells Gomm that he is glad Merrick now has a place where he can stay without being stared at, and is determined that Merrick should lead a normal life.\n\nWhen two attendants, Will and Snork, are caught peeking into Merrick's room, Will is fired and Snork is given a severe warning. Treves believes that it is important to enforce these rules, but Merrick worries what will happen to Will and his family. Merrick grew up in the workhouses, and wishes that no one had to suffer that fate. Treves says that it is just the way things are.\n\nJohn Merrick has a visitor by the name of Madge Kendal, an actress who came across Carr-Gromm's section in the newspaper. When Mrs. Kendal meets Merrick, she requires all of her self-control in order to disguise her horror at Merrick’s appearance. After several minutes of strained conversation. Mrs. Kendal mentions \"Romeo and Juliet\". Merrick amazes Mrs. Kendal with his thoughtful and sensitive views on Romeo and the nature of love. Mrs. Kendal says that she will bring some of her friends to meet Merrick, then shakes his hand and tells him how truly pleased she is to meet him. Merrick dissolves into tears as Treves tells Mrs. Kendal that it is the first time a woman has ever shaken his hand.\n\nMrs. Kendal's high society friends visit Merrick and bring him gifts while he builds a model of St. Phillip's church, having to work with his one good hand. He tells Mrs. Kendal that St. Phillip’s Church is an imitation of grace, and his model is therefore an imitation of an imitation. When Treves comments that all of humanity is a mere illusion of heaven, Merrick says that God should have used both hands. Merrick's new friends—Bishop How, Gomm, the Duchess, Princess Alexandra, Treves, and Mrs. Kendal—all comment upon how, in different ways, they see themselves reflected in him. However, Treves notes that Merrick’s condition is worsening with time.\n\nMerrick tells Mrs. Kendal that he needs a mistress and suggests that he would like her to do that for him. Mrs. Kendal listens compassionately, but she tells Merrick that it is unlikely that he will ever have a mistress. Merrick admits that he has never even seen a naked woman. Mrs. Kendal is flattered by his show of trust in her, and she realizes that she has come to trust him. She undresses and allows him to see her naked body. Treves enters and is shocked, sending Mrs. Kendal away.\n\nRoss comes to the hospital to ask Merrick to rejoin the freak show. Ross's health has drastically worsened, and he tells Merrick that without help he is doomed to a painful death. He tries to convince Merrick to charge the society members who visit him. Merrick refuses to help Ross, finally standing up to him after suffering years of abuse at his hands. Ross makes one final pathetic plea to Merrick, who refuses him, saying that's just the way things are.\n\nMerrick asks Treves what he believes about God and heaven. Then he confronts Treves, criticizing what he did to Mrs. Kendal and the rigid standards by which he judges everybody. Treves realizes that he has been too harsh with Merrick and tells him that although he will write to Mrs. Kendal, he does not believe she will return. After Merrick leaves the room, Treves says that it is because he does not want her to see Merrick die.\n\nTreves has a nightmare that he has been put on display while Merrick delivers a lecture about his terrifying normality, his rigidity, and the acts of cruelty he can commit upon others \"for their own good\".\n\nCarr-Gomm and Treves discuss Merrick's impending death. Treves displays frustration at the fact that the more normal Merrick pretends to be, the worse his condition becomes. He confronts Bishop How, telling him that he believes Merrick’s faith is merely another attempt to emulate others. It comes out that the real source of his frustrations is the chaos of the world around him, with his patients seemingly doing everything they can to shorten their own lives. No matter how hard he tries he cannot help them, just as he cannot help Merrick. He finally begs for the bishop to help him.\n\nMerrick finishes his model of the church. As usual, he goes to sleep while sitting, a posture which he must adopt due to the weight of his head. As he sleeps he sees visions of the pinheads, now singing that they are the Queens of the Cosmos. They lay him down to sleep normally, and he dies. Snork discovers his body and runs out screaming that the Elephant Man is dead.\n\nIn the final scene, Carr-Gomm reads a letter he has written to \"The Times\", outlining Merrick’s stay at the hospital, his death and his plans for the remaining funds donated for Merrick's care. When he asks Treves if he has anything else to add, a distressed Treves says he does not and leaves. As Carr-Gomm finishes the letter Treves rushes back in, saying that he’s thought of something. Carr-Gomm tells the doctor that it is too late: it is done.\n\nBroadway production, 1979:\n\nA revival of the production was staged at the Royale Theatre on Broadway in April 2002, running for 57 performances, and closed on 2 June 2002. It was directed by Sean Mathias and starred Billy Crudup, Rupert Graves and Kate Burton in the leading roles and James Riordan and Jack Gilpin portraying several supporting roles each. The production received Tony Nominations for Crudup and Burton.\n\nA 2014 revival, starring Bradley Cooper, Patricia Clarkson, and Alessandro Nivola, opened at the Booth Theatre on 7 December for a 13-week engagement (through 15 February 2015). Cooper, who appeared as Merrick in a revival at the 2012 Williamstown Theatre Festival, reprised his role. Scott Ellis, who directed the Williamstown production, also staged the Broadway return. In 2015, Cooper was nominated for a Tony for Best Actor for his portrayal as Merrick. In May 2015, the production, again starring Cooper, Clarkson, and Nivola, opened at the Theatre Royal Haymarket London for a limited 12-week run from 19 May until 8 August.\n\nAn adaptation for television of this play adapted by Steve Lawson also called \"The Elephant Man\" was broadcast in 1982 on ABC. Philip Anglim repeated his Broadway performance. Also directed by Hofsiss, actress Penny Fuller received an Emmy Award for her performance as Mrs. Kendal.\n\nA radio drama adaptation by BBC World Service was published in 1988. It was directed by David Hitchenson and starred Gerard Murphy as John Merrick the elephant man; Jeremy Clyde as Frederick Treves the doctor; Anna Massey as actress Mrs. Kendal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26213917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26213917", "title": "The Sydney Fringe", "text": "The Sydney Fringe\n\nThe Sydney Fringe is an alternative arts and culture festival held for the first time in September 2010 in the inner west of Sydney, Australia. \n\nThe Fringe is an initiative of the Newtown Entertainment Precinct Association. It is the largest alternative visual and performing arts event in NSW. It encompasses genres such as stand-up comedy, music, theatre, cabaret, visual arts, and burlesque, though shows and events that are not easily labelled in that manner are highly encouraged; evidence of this in past years has included podcast recordings and indie video game events. It is billed as \"a time for risk, discovery and adventure [...] a three week celebration of the strange and the beautiful.\"\n\nThe Sydney Fringe, began as a curated festival (like the New York International Fringe Festival) as opposed to an open access \"unjuried\" festival (the model used by the Edinburgh Fringe Festival). In 2012, festival director Richard Hull implemented the open access festival model, whereby the visual arts is now the only curated element.\n\nThe Sydney Fringe typically operates in a festival precinct encompassing a number of venues in the Newtown/Marrickville/Enmore area, with a few other venues in the wider Sydney area, including Leichhardt, Parramatta, Oxford Street and the City. In a departure from previous years, where venues registered with the Fringe in the same manner as artists, the Fringe 2013 team have selected a list of over 60 Sydney venues, for artists to then communicate and draw up contracts with.\n\nA Sydney Fringe Festival ran from 1994 to 2002 in Bondi, founded by producer Megan Donnelly and Katrina Sedgwick. The Live Bait Festival, a successor to the Sydney Fringe Festival, also operated out of Bondi from 2003–2004 and was co-produced by Michael Cohen and Glenn Wright.\n"}
{"id": "26056625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26056625", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 546", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 546\n\nUnited Nations Security Council resolution 546, adopted on 6 January 1984, after hearing representations from the People's Republic of Angola, the Council recalled resolutions 387 (1976), 428 (1978), 447 (1979), 454 (1979), 475 (1980) and 545 (1983), and expressed its concern at the continuing attacks on the country by South Africa through occupied South West Africa.\n\nThe Council demanded South Africa cease the attacks and respect Angola's sovereignty and territorial integrity, noting that Angola is entitled to the right of self-defense and to compensation for the attacks. It also called upon South Africa to cease the occupation of southern Angola and withdraw its forces. The resolution urged Member States to provide economic assistance to Angola, as well as enforce Resolution 418 (1977) on the arms embargo against South Africa. It also requested the Secretary-General continue to monitor the situation and report back to the Council as appropriate.\n\nThe resolution was approved by 13 votes to none against, while the United Kingdom and United States abstained from voting. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5849394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5849394", "title": "War of the Flemish Succession", "text": "War of the Flemish Succession\n\nThe War of the Flemish Succession was a series of feudal conflicts in the mid-thirteenth century between the children of Margaret II, Countess of Flanders. They concerned the succession to the countship of two counties, one a fief of the King of France (Flanders) and one a fief of the King of Germany (Hainault).\n\nWhen Baldwin IX, Count of Flanders and Hainault, left on the Fourth Crusade in 1202, he left his western domains under his eldest daughter Joanna. Joanna inherited the counties on Baldwin's death and, despite two marriages, died without heirs in 1244. She was succeeded by her younger sister, the aforementioned Margaret.\n\nMargaret's first marriage, to Bouchard of Avesnes, was annulled in 1221 on orders from Joanna and the excommunication of Bouchard. By Bouchard, however, Margaret had already had three children, including John I of Avesnes. Nevertheless, in 1223, she remarried. With her second husband, William II of Dampierre (d.1231), she also had three children, including William III and Guy of Dampierre.\n\nThe contested division of the rights to Margaret's inheritance between the sons of Avesnes and those of Dampierre were the cause of the conflicts known as the \"war of the succession of Flanders and Hainault.\"\n\nThe first conflict opened with Margaret's succession in 1244. John I of Avesnes and William of Dampierre, half brothers, fought between themselves until King Louis IX intervened in 1246. Louis gave Hainault (technically not his to give) to John I of Avesnes and Flanders (indeed his vassal) to William of Dampierre. Margaret, in light of this judgement, gave the government of Flanders over to William of Dampierre in 1247. She did not however relinquish her governance of Hainault to John I of Avesnes.\n\nIn 1251, William III of Dampierre died and Flanders passed to his brother Guy of Dampierre.\n\nIn 1248, Louis had left on the Seventh Crusade and remained abroad for six years. John I of Avesnes quickly apprehended that his mother did not intend to give him the government of Hainault as she had that of Flanders to her other sons. John I of Avesnes revolted against his mother and attacked his half-brother Guy of Dampierre, who had just become count of Flanders.\n\nJohn I of Avesnes persuaded the German anti-king William of Holland to seize Hainault and Flemish territory within the empire. The fighting continued until the Battle of West-Capelle on 4 July 1253, when John I of Avesnes gained a brilliant victory over Guy of Dampierre and forced him and his mother to respect the division of Louis and grant him Hainault.\n\nMargaret did not rest in her defeat and did not recognise herself as overcome. She instead granted Hainault to Charles of Anjou, the brother of King Louis, who had recently returned from the crusade. Charles took up her cause and warred with John I of Avesnes, but failed to take Valenciennes and just missed being killed in a skirmish. When Louis returned in 1254, he reaffirmed his earlier arbitration and ordered his brother to get out of the conflict. Charles returned to Provence. With this second arbitration of the holy king, the conflict closed and John I of Avesnes was secure in Hainault.\n"}
{"id": "2824490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2824490", "title": "World Festival of Youth and Students", "text": "World Festival of Youth and Students\n\nThe World Festival of Youth and Students is an international event, organized by the World Federation of Democratic Youth (WFDY), a United Nations-recognized international youth non-governmental organization, jointly with the International Union of Students since 1947.\n\nThe festival has been held regularly since 1947 as an event of global youth solidarity for democracy and against war and imperialism. The largest festival was the 6th, held in 1957 in Moscow, when 34,000 young people from 131 countries attended the event. This festival also marked the international debut of the song \"Moscow Nights\", which subsequently went on to become perhaps the most widely recognized Russian song in the world. Until the 19th festival in Sochi, Russia in 2017 (with 185 countries participating), the largest festival by number of countries with participants was the 13th, held in 1989 in Pyongyang when 177 countries attended the event.\n\nThe World Federation of Democratic Youth was founded to bring together young people of both the socialist and capitalist countries to promote peaceful cooperation and mutual rejection of war. However, with the onset of the Cold War soon after, the organization and the festivals became a matter of contention within the rivalry. Because of the enormous expenditure and coordination required to support a youth festival, most of the early festivals were held in cities in the socialist countries of Europe. However, many festivals, both then and more so since, have been held in non-socialist countries, affirming the commitment to peaceful coexistence between the peoples living under the different systems.\n\nThe most recent festival took place in Sochi, Russia, from 13 to 22 October 2017.\n\n"}
