{"id": "48146868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48146868", "title": "Acta Borealia", "text": "Acta Borealia\n\nActa Borealia is an interdisciplinary research journal dedicated to cultural studies. It was established in 1984. It is published in English by Routledge and is based at the Tromsø University Museum and University of Tromsø.\n\nThe journal publishes research findings on society in the Arctic area. The journal focuses in particular on ethnicity; settlement patterns and settlement development; economics; and political, cultural, and social phenomena from prehistory to the recent past.\n\nThe journal is edited by Bryan Hood (Tromsø), Liv Helene Willumsen (Tromsø), Roger Jørgensen (Tromsø), and Rane Willerslev (Aarhus). The editorial board has members from Denmark, Finland, Greenland, Iceland, Norway, Russia, Sweden, and the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "3739803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3739803", "title": "Al-Nahda", "text": "Al-Nahda\n\nAl-Nahda ( / ALA-LC: \"an-Nahḍah\"; Arabic for \"awakening\" or \"renaissance\") was a cultural renaissance that began in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in Egypt, then later moving to Ottoman-ruled Arabic-speaking regions including Lebanon, Syria and others. It is often regarded as a period of intellectual modernization and reform.\n\nIn traditional scholarship, the Nahda is seen as connected to the cultural shock brought on by Napoleon's invasion of Egypt in 1798, and the reformist drive of subsequent rulers such as Mehmet Ali. However, recent scholarship has shown that the Middle Eastern and North African Renaissance was a cultural reform program that was as \"autogenetic\" as it was Western inspired, linked to the Ottoman Tanzimat and internal changes in political economy and communal reformations in Egypt and Syro-Lebanon.\n\nThe renaissance itself started simultaneously in both Egypt & Greater Syria. Due to their differing backgrounds, the aspects that they focused on differed as well; with Egypt focused on the political aspects of the Islamic world while Greater Syria focused on the more cultural aspects. The concepts were not exclusive by region however, and this distinction blurred as the renaissance progressed.\n\nIn the Ottoman-ruled Arabic regions, major influence and motive were the 19th century Tanzimat reforms of the Ottoman Empire, which brought a constitutional order to Ottoman politics and engendered a new political class and later the Young Turk Revolution, which allowed proliferation of press and other publications.\n\nThe Egyptian scholar Rifa'a el-Tahtawi (1801–1873) is widely seen as the pioneering figure of the Nahda. He was sent to Paris in 1826 by Muhammad Ali's government to study Western sciences and educational methods, although originally to serve as Imam for the Egyptian cadets training at the Paris military academy. He came to hold a very positive view of French society, although not without criticisms. Learning French, he began translating important scientific and cultural works into Classical Arabic. He also witnessed the July Revolution of 1830, against Charles X, but, perhaps understandably, was careful in commenting on the matter in his reports to Muhammad Ali. His political views, originally influenced by the conservative Islamic teachings at El Azhar university, changed on a number of matters, and he came to advocate parliamentarism and women's education.\n\nAfter five years in France, he then returned to Egypt to implement the philosophy of reform he had developed there, summarizing his views in the book \"Takhlis al-Ibriz fi Talkhis Bariz\" (sometimes translated as \"The Quintessence of Paris\"), published in 1834. It is written in rhymed prose, and describes France and Europe from an Egyptian Muslim viewpoint. Tahtawi's suggestion was that the Egypt and the Muslim world had much to learn from Europe, and generally embraced Western society, but also held that reforms should be adapted to the values of Islamic culture. This brand of self-confident but open-minded modernism came to be the defining creed of al-Nahda.\n\nButrus Al-Bustani (1819–1893) was born to a Lebanese Maronite Christian family in the village of Dibbiye in the Chouf region, in January 1819. A polyglot, educator, and activist, Al-Bustani was a tour de force in the nahda centered in mid-nineteenth century Beirut. Having been influenced by American missionaries, he converted to Protestantism, becoming a leader in the native Protestant church. Initially, he taught in the schools of the Protestant missionaries at 'Abey and was a central figure in the missionaries' translation of the Bible into Arabic. Despite his close ties to the Americans, Al-Bustani increasingly became independent, eventually breaking away from them. \n\nAfter the bloody 1860 Druze–Maronite conflict and the increasing entrenchment of confessionalism, Al-Bustani founded the National School or Al-Madrasa Al-Wataniyya in 1863, on secular principles. This school employed the leading nahda, (Enlightenment), \"pioneers\" of Beirut and graduated a generation of nahda thinkers. At the same time, he compiled and published several school textbooks and dictionaries; leading him to becoming known famously as the Master of the Arabic Renaissance. \nIn the social, national and political spheres, Al-Bustani founded associations with a view to forming a national elite and launched a series of appeals for unity in his magazine Nafir Suriya.\n\nIn the cultural/scientific fields, he published a fortnightly review and two daily newspapers. In addition, he began work, together with Drs. Eli Smith and Cornelius Van Dyck of the American Mission, on a translation of the Bible into Arabic known as the Smith-Van Dyke translation.\n\nHis prolific output and groundbreaking work led the creation of modern Arabic expository prose. While educated by Westerners, and a strong advocate of Western technology, he was a fierce secularist, playing a decisive role in formulating the principles of Syrian nationalism (not to be confused with Arab nationalism).\n\nStephen Sheehi states that Al-Bustani's \"importance does not lie in his prognosis of Arab culture or his national pride. Nor is his advocacy of discriminatingly adopting Western knowledge and technology to \"awaken\" the Arabs' inherent ability for cultural success,(najah), unique among his generation. Rather, his contribution lies in the act of elocution. That is, his writing articulates a specific formula for native progress that expresses a synthetic vision of the matrix of modernity within Ottoman Syria.\"\n\nHayreddin Pasha al-Tunsi (1820-1890) had made his way to Ottoman Tunisia as a slave, where he rose through the ranks of the government of Ahmad Bey, the modernizing ruler of Tunisia. He soon was made responsible for diplomatic missions to the Ottoman Empire and the countries of Europe, bringing him into contact with Western ideals, as well as with the Tanzimat reforms of the Ottoman Empire. He served as Prime Minister of Tunisia from 1859 until 1882. In this period, he was a major force of modernization in Tunisia.\n\nIn numerous writings, he envisioned a seamless blending of Islamic tradition with Western modernization. Basing his beliefs on European Enlightenment writings and Arabic political thought, his main concern was with preserving the autonomy of the Tunisian people in particular, and Muslim peoples in general. In this quest, he ended up bringing forth what amounted to the earliest example of Muslim constitutionalism. His modernizing theories have had an enormous influence on Tunisian and Ottoman thought.\n\nIn the religious field, Jamal al-Din al-Afghani (1839–1897) gave Islam a modernist reinterpretation and fused adherence to the faith with an anti-colonial doctrine that preached Pan-Islamic solidarity in the face of European pressures. He also favored the replacement of authoritarian monarchies with representative rule, and denounced what he perceived as the dogmatism, stagnation and corruption of the Islam of his age. He claimed that tradition (\"taqlid\", تقليد) had stifled Islamic debate and repressed the correct practices of the faith. Al-Afghani's case for a redefinition of old interpretations of Islam, and his bold attacks on traditional religion, would become vastly influential with the fall of the Caliphate in 1924. This created a void in the religious doctrine and social structure of Islamic communities which had been only temporarily reinstated by Abdul Hamid II in an effort to bolster universal Muslim support, suddenly vanished. It forced Muslims to look for new interpretations of the faith, and to re-examine widely held dogma; exactly what al-Afghani had urged them to do decades earlier.\n\nAl-Afghani influenced many, but greatest among his followers is undoubtedly his student Muhammad Abduh (1849–1905), whose teachings would play a similarly important role in the reform of the practice of Islam. Like al-Afghani, Abduh accused traditionalist Islamic authorities of moral and intellectual corruption, and of imposing a doctrinaire form of Islam on the ummah, that had hindered correct applications of the faith. He therefore advocated that Muslims should return to the \"true\" Islam practiced by the ancient Caliphs, which he held had been both rational and divinely inspired. Applying the original message of the Prophet Muhammad with no interference of tradition or the faulty interpretations of his followers, would automatically create the just society ordained by God in the Qur'an, and so empower the Muslim world to stand against colonization and injustices.\n\nAmong the students of Abduh were Syrian Islamic scholar and reformer Rashid Rida (1865–1935), who continued his legacy, and expanded on the concept of just Islamic government. His theses on how an Islamic state should be organized remain influential among modern-day Islamists such as the Muslim Brotherhood.\n\nShi'a scholars contributed to the renaissance movement, such as the linguist shaykh Ahmad Rida, the historian Muhammad Jaber Al Safa and Suleiman Daher. Important political reforms took place simultaneously also in Iran and Shi'a religious beliefs saw important developments with the systematization of a religious hierarchy. A wave of political reform followed, with the constitutional movement in Iran, to some extent paralleling the Egyptian Nahda reforms.\n\nThrough the 19th century and early 20th centuries, a number of new developments in Arabic literature started to emerge, initially sticking closely to the classical forms, but addressing modern themes and the challenges faced by the Arab world in the modern era.\n\nIn 1865, Syrian writer Francis Marrash published \"Ghabat al-haqq\", an allegory which deals with ideas of peace, freedom and equality. Aleppine writer Qustaki al-Himsi is considered to have founded modern literary criticism, with one of his works, \"The researcher's source in the science of criticism\".\n\nMaryana Marrash was the first Arab woman in the nineteenth century to revive the tradition of the literary salon in the Arab world, with the salon she ran in her family home in Aleppo.\n\nIn 1914, Muhammad Husayn Haykal (1888–1956) published \"Zaynab\", often considered the first modern Egyptian novel. This novel started a movement of modernizing Arabic Fiction.\n\nA group of young writers formed \"The New School\", and in 1925 began publishing the weekly literary journal \"al-Fajr\" (\"The Dawn\"), which would have a great impact on Arabic literature. The group was especially influenced by 19th-century Russian writers such as Dostoyevsky, Tolstoy and Gogol.\n\nIn poetry, the Egyptian Ahmad Shawqi, among others, began to explore the limits of the classical qasida, although he remained a clearly neo-classical poet. After him, others, including Hafez Ibrahim began to use poetry to explore themes of anticolonialism as well as the classical concepts. The Mahjar poets, of whom the most famous is the Lebanese Khalil Gibran (1883–1931), but which included other writers, in South America as well as the USA, further contributed to the development of the forms available to Arab poets.\n\n\"The Prophet\", published in 1923 by the Boston-based Gibran, is perhaps the best known work of the era in the West, but was actually first written in English (Read \"The Prophet\" online here ). Gibran's associate in the Arab-American League of the Pen (\"al-Rabita al-Qalamiyya\"), Mikha'il Na'ima (1898–1989) would later return to Lebanon and contribute to the development of the novel there.\n\nOne of the main literary innovators in the later stages of al-Nahda was Prof. Taha Hussein (1889–1973), the blind child of an Egyptian peasant family who is today widely considered an intellectual giant of Egypt, and apart from his Qur'anic education at al-Azhar held triple doctorates from Cairo University, the University of Sorbonne and the University of Paris. He served as Minister of Education in Egypt in the 1950s, and was responsible for creating free and mandatory schooling. His best known book is the autobiographical \"el-Ayyam\" (\"The Days\").\n\nThe first printing press in the Middle East was in the monastery of St Anthony of Kozhaya in Lebanon and dates back to 1610. It printed Arabic books using the Syriac letters. The first printing press with Arabic letters, was built in St John's monastery in Khinshara, Lebanon by \"Al-Shamas Abdullah Zakher\" in 1734. The printing press operated from 1734 till 1899.\nIn 1821, Muhammad Ali of Egypt brought the first printing press to Egypt. Modern printing techniques spread rapidly and gave birth to a modern Egyptian press, which brought the reformist trends of the al-Nahda into contact with the emerging Egyptian middle class of clerks and tradesmen. The Egyptian newspaper al-Ahram dates from 1875, and between 1870 and 1900, Beirut alone saw the founding of about 40 new periodicals and 15 newspapers.\n\nThe efforts at translating European and American literature led to the modernization of the Arabic language [citation]. Many scientific and academic terms, as well as words for modern inventions, were incorporated in modern Arabic vocabulary, and new words were coined in accordance with the Arabic root system to cover for others. The development of a modern press (see above) ensured that classical Arabic spread through society in its updated form, Modern Standard Arabic, which is used still today all over the Arab world. The Lebanese scholar Butrus al-Bustani (1819–83) created, in the late 19th century, the first modern Arabic encyclopedia, drawing both on medieval Arab scholars and Western methods of lexicography, and Ahmad Reda created the first modern dictionary of Arabic, \"Matn al-Lugha\" (\"Lisan al-Arab\" was written in the 13th century).\n\nIn 1876, the Ottoman Empire promulgated a constitution, as the crowning accomplishment of the Tanzimat reforms (1839–76) and inaugurating the Empire's First Constitutional Era. It was inspired by European methods of government and designed to bring the Empire back on level with the Western powers. The constitution was opposed by the Sultan, whose powers it checked, but had vast symbolic and political importance.\n\nThe introduction of parliamentarism also created a political class in the Ottoman-controlled provinces, from which later emerged a liberal nationalist elite that would spearhead the several nationalist movements, in particular Egyptian nationalism. Egyptian nationalism was non-Arab, emphasising ethnic Egyptian identity and history in response to European colonialism and the Turkish occupation of Egypt. This was paralleled by the rise of the Young Turks in the central Ottoman provinces and administration. The resentment towards Turkish rule fused with protests against the Sultan's autocracy, and the largely secular concepts of Arab nationalism rose as a cultural response to the Ottoman Caliphates claims of religious legitimacy. Various Arab nationalist secret societies rose in the years prior to World War I, such as Al-fatat and the military based al-Ahd.\n\nThis was complemented by the rise of other national movements, including Syrian nationalism, which like Egyptian nationalism was in some of its manifestations essentially non-Arabist and connected to the concept of Greater Syria. The main other example of the late al-Nahda era is the emerging Palestinian nationalism, which was set apart from Syrian nationalism by Jewish immigration to Mandatory Palestine and the resulting sense of Palestinian particularism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23032085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23032085", "title": "Anomalistic psychology", "text": "Anomalistic psychology\n\nIn psychology, anomalistic psychology is the study of human behaviour and experience connected with what is often called the paranormal, with the assumption that there is nothing paranormal involved.\n\nAccording to anomalistic psychology, paranormal phenomena have naturalistic explanations resulting from psychological and physical factors which have given the false impression of paranormal activity to some people. There were many early publications that gave rational explanations for alleged paranormal experiences.\n\nThe physician John Ferriar wrote \"An Essay Towards a Theory of Apparitions\" in 1813 in which he argued that sightings of ghosts were the result of optical illusions. Later, the French physician Alexandre Jacques François Brière de Boismont published \"On Hallucinations: Or, the Rational History of Apparitions, Dreams, Ecstasy, Magnetism, and Somnambulism\" in 1845 in which he claimed sightings of ghosts were the result of hallucinations. William Benjamin Carpenter, in his book \"Mesmerism, Spiritualism, Etc: Historically and Scientifically Considered\" (1877), wrote that Spiritualist practices could be explained by fraud, delusion, hypnotism and suggestion. The British psychiatrist Henry Maudsley, in \"Natural Causes and Supernatural Seemings\" (1886), wrote that so-called supernatural experiences could be explained in terms of disorders of the mind and were simply \"malobservations and misinterpretations of nature\".\n\nIn the 1890s, the German psychologist Max Dessoir and psychiatrist Albert Moll formed the \"critical occultism\" position. This viewpoint interpreted psychical phenomena naturalistically. All apparent cases were attributed to fraud, suggestion, unconscious cues or psychological factors. Moll wrote that practices such as Christian Science, Spiritualism and occultism were the result of fraud and hypnotic suggestion. Moll argued that suggestion explained the cures of Christian Science, as well as the apparently supernatural rapport between magnetisers and their somnambulists. He wrote that fraud and hypnotism could explain mediumistic phenomena.\n\nLionel Weatherly (a psychiatrist) and John Nevil Maskelyne (a magician) wrote \"The Supernatural?\" (1891) which offered rational explanations for apparitions, paranormal and religious experiences and Spiritualism. Karl Jaspers, in his book \"General Psychopathology\" (1913), stated that all paranormal phenomena are manifestations of psychiatric symptoms.\n\nThe German \"Zeitschrift für Kritischen Okkultismus\" (Journal for Critical Occultism) operated from 1926-1928. Psychologist Richard Baerwald was the editor, and the journal published articles by Dessoir, Moll and others. It contained \"some of the most important skeptical investigations of claims of the paranormal\".\n\nOther early scientists who studied anomalistic psychology include Millais Culpin, Joseph Jastrow, Charles Arthur Mercier and Ivor Lloyd Tuckett.\n\nThe phrase \"Anomalistic Psychology\" was a term first suggested by the psychologists Leonard Zusne and Warren Jones in their book \"Anomalistic Psychology: A Study of Magical Thinking\" (1989) which systematically addresses phenomena of human consciousness and behaviors that may appear to violate the laws of nature when they actually do not.\n\nThe Canadian psychologist Graham Reed published a major work on the subject \"The Psychology of Anomalous Experience\" (1972).\n\nVarious psychological publications have explained in detail how reported paranormal phenomena such as mediumship, precognition, out-of-body experiences and psychics can be explained by psychological factors without recourse to the supernatural. Researchers involved with anomalistic psychology try to provide plausible non-paranormal accounts, supported by empirical evidence, of how psychological and physical factors might combine to give the impression of paranormal activity when there had been none. Apart from deception or self-deception such explanations might involve cognitive biases, anomalous psychological states, dissociative states, hallucinations, personality factors, developmental issues and the nature of memory. \nThe psychologist David Marks wrote that paranormal phenomena can be explained by magical thinking, mental imagery, subjective validation, coincidence, hidden causes, and fraud. Robert Baker wrote that many paranormal phenomena can be explained via psychological effects such as hallucinations, sleep paralysis and hidden memories, a phenomenon in which experiences that originally make little conscious impression are filed away in the brain to be suddenly remembered later in an altered form.\n\nMassimo Polidoro, a professor of Anomalistic Psychology at the University of Milano Bicocca, Italy, taught the course \"Scientific Method, Pseudoscience and Anomalistic Psychology\". Another notable researcher is the British psychologist Chris French who set up the Anomalistic Psychology Research Unit (APRU) in the Department of Psychology at Goldsmiths, University of London.\n\nA psychological study (Klemperer, 1992) of ghosts wrote that visions of ghosts may arise from hypnagogic hallucinations (\"waking dreams\" which are experienced in the transitional states to and from sleep). In an experiment (Lange and Houran, 1997) 22 subjects visited five areas of a performance theatre and were asked to take note of the environment. Half of the subjects were informed that the locations they were in were haunted, whilst the other half were told that the building was simply under renovation. The subjects' perceptions in both groups were recorded to an experiential questionnaire which contained 10 subscales related to psychological and physiological perceptions. The results showed more intense perceptual experiences on nine of the ten subscales from the group that was told the building was haunted, which has indicated that demand characteristics alone can stimulate paranormal experiences.\n\nA study (Lange and Houran, 1998) suggested that poltergeist experiences are delusions \"resulting from the affective and cognitive dynamics of percipients' interpretation of ambiguous stimuli\".\n\nTwo experiments into alleged hauntings (Wiseman \"et al\". 2003) discovered that the data supported the \"notion that people consistently report unusual experiences in ‘haunted’ areas because of environmental factors, which may differ across locations.\" Some of these factors included \"the variance of local magnetic fields, size of location and lighting level stimuli of which witnesses may not be consciously aware\".\n\nResearch and empirical evidence from psychology for over a hundred years has revealed that where there is not fraud, mediumship and Spiritualistic practices can be explained by psychological factors. Trance mediumship, which is claimed by the Spiritualists to be caused by discarnate spirits speaking through the medium, has been proven in some cases to be the emergence of alternate personalities from the medium's subconscious mind.\n\nThe medium may obtain information about their clients, called sitters, by secretly eavesdropping on sitter's conversations or searching telephone directories, the internet and newspapers before the sittings. Mediums are known for employing a technique called cold reading which involves obtaining information from the sitter's behavior, clothing, posture, and jewellery.\n\nIn a series of fake seance experiments (Wiseman \"et al\". 2003), an actor suggested to paranormal believers and disbelievers that a table was levitating when, in fact, it remained stationary. After the seance, approximately one third of the participants incorrectly reported that the table had moved. The results showed a greater percentage of believers reporting that the table had moved. In another experiment the believers had also reported that a handbell had moved when it had remained stationary and expressed their belief that the fake seances contained genuine paranormal phenomena. The experiments strongly supported the notion that in the seance room, believers are more suggestible than disbelievers to suggestions that are consistent with their belief in paranormal phenomena.\n\nAn experiment (O'Keeffe and Wiseman, 2005) involving 5 mediums found no evidence to support the notion that the mediums under controlled conditions were able to demonstrate paranormal or mediumistic ability.\n\nA study in the British Medical Journal (Rose, 1954) investigated spiritual healing, therapeutic touch and faith healing. In a hundred cases that were investigated no single case revealed that the healer's intervention alone resulted in any improvement or cure of a measurable organic disability.\n\nA trial was carried out by a group of scientists (Beutler, 1988) to see whether three treatment groups, paranormal laying on of hands, paranormal healing at a distance and no paranormal healing to test if they might reduce blood pressure. The data did not reveal any paranormal effects as no significant differences between the three treatment groups were found. The results concluded that the fall in blood pressure in all three of the groups was caused by the psychosocial approach and the placebo effect of the trial itself.\n\nOne form of paranormal healing known as psychic surgery has been discovered to be the result of sleight of hand tricks. Psychic surgeons pretend to reach into the patient's body but the skin is never punctured, there are no scars and the blood is released from packets hidden in the surgeon's hands.\n\nCognitive biases have been found in some cases of psychokinesis. A meta-analysis by Bösch, \"et al\" (2006) of 380 studies found that \"statistical significance of the overall database provides no directive as to whether the phenomenon is genuine or not\" and came to the conclusion that \"publication bias appears to be the easiest and most encompassing explanation for the primary findings of the meta-analysis.\"\n\nAccording to Richard Wiseman there are a number of ways for faking psychokinetic metal bending (PKMB) these include switching straight objects for pre-bent duplicates, the concealed application of force, and secretly inducing metallic fractures. Research has also suggested that (PKMB) effects can be created by verbal suggestion. On this subject (Harris, 1985) wrote:\n\nIn an experimental study (Wiseman and Greening, 2005) two groups of participants were shown a videotape in which a fake psychic placed a bent key on a table. Participants in the first group heard the fake psychic suggest that the key was continuing to bend when it had remained stationary, whilst those in the second group did not. The results revealed that participants from the first group reported significantly more movement of the key than the second group. The findings were replicated in another study. The experiments had demonstrated that \"testimony for PKMB after effects can be created by verbal suggestion, and therefore the testimony from individuals who have observed allegedly genuine demonstrations of such effects should not be seen as strong evidence in support of the paranormal\".\n\nResearch has suggested that in cases the participants of remote viewing experiments are influenced by subjective validation, a process through which correspondences are perceived between stimuli that are in fact associated purely randomly. Sensory cues have also occurred in remote viewing experiments.\n\nResearch has discovered that in some cases telepathy can be explained by a covariation bias. In an experiment (Schienle \"et al\". 1996) 22 believers and 20 skeptics were asked to judge the covariation between transmitted symbols and the corresponding feedback given by a receiver. According to the results the believers overestimated the number of successful transmissions whilst the skeptics made accurate hit judgments. The results from another telepathy experiment involving 48 undergraduate college students (Rudski, 2002) were explained by hindsight and confirmation biases.\n\nAnomalistic psychology is sometimes described as a sub-field of parapsychology, however, anomalistic psychology rejects the paranormal claims of parapsychology. According to Chris French:\n\nAnomalistic psychology has been reported to be on the rise. It is now offered as an option on many psychology degree programmes and is also an option on the A2 psychology syllabus in the UK.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25456072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25456072", "title": "Art Association NYTE", "text": "Art Association NYTE\n\nArt Association NYTE ry is founded in 1987 in Pori as an artist group and art association. It is as a launching platform for young artists in Satakunta Region.\n\nArt Association NYTE ry begun as an interdisciplinary artist group which included artists from various fields including, fine-art, Cinema and Live-Arts.\n\nMany of NYTE's activities take place in the social centre 3h+k. Which translates as 3 rooms and a kitchen. It includes a theatre, gallery space and computer resource room. There is also an outside yard used for some performances and was started in the 1980s.\n"}
{"id": "18368611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18368611", "title": "Arts criticism", "text": "Arts criticism\n\nArts criticism is the process of describing, analyzing, interpreting, and judging works of art. It is distinct from art criticism (which focuses on visual arts) due to its broader remit. The disciplines of arts criticism can be defined by the object being considered rather than the methodology (through analysis of its philosophy): buildings (architecture criticism), paintings (visual art criticism), performances (dance criticism, theatre criticism), music (music journalism), visual media (film criticism, television criticism), or literary texts (literary criticism).\n\nCriticism of the arts can be broadly divided into two types. There is academic criticism such as that found in scholarly works and specialist journals, then there is criticism of a more journalistic nature (often called 'a review') which is seen by a wider public through newspapers, television and radio. The academic criticism will be of a more vigorous and analytical nature than the journalistic, the journalistic may even focus on entertaining the reader at the expense of detail about the art under discussion.\n\n"}
{"id": "191145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191145", "title": "Autonomy", "text": "Autonomy\n\nIn development or moral, political, and bioethical philosophy, autonomy is the capacity to make an informed, un-coerced decision. Autonomous organizations or institutions are independent or self-governing. Autonomy can also be defined from human resource perspective and it means a level of discretion granted to an employee in his or her work. In such cases, autonomy is known to bring some sense of job satisfaction among the employees. Autonomy is a term that is also widely used and in the field of medicine. As a matter of fact, personal autonomy is greatly recognized and valued in health care.\n\nIn the sociology of knowledge, a branch of sociology, a controversy over the boundaries of autonomy stopped at the concept of relative autonomy, until a typology of autonomy was created and developed within science and technology studies. According to it, the contemporary form of science's existing autonomy is the reflexive autonomy: actors and structures within the scientific field are able to translate or to reflect diverse themes presented by social and political fields, as well as influence them regarding the thematic choices on research projects.\n\nInstitutional autonomy is having the capacities as a legislator to be able to implant and pursue official goals. The institutions are responsible for finding the right amount of resources or modify their current plans, programs, courses, responsibilities, and services to be able to have the means fit the end. But in order to do so, they must counter the obstacles that can occur, such as social pressure and socioeconomic difficulties. From a legislator's point of view, to increase institutional autonomy, conditions of self-management and institutional self-governance must be put in place. An increase in leadership and a redistribution of the responsibilities of decision-making would be beneficial to the research of resources. \nInstitutional autonomy was often seen as a synonym for self-determination, and the government feared that it would lead institutions to an irredentist or secessionist state. But autonomy should be seen as the solution to the struggles of self-determination. Self-determination is a movement toward independence, whereas autonomy is a way to accommodate the separatist in a country. Institutional autonomy has been the answer to conflicts regarding minorities and ethnic groups in a society. Allowing more autonomy to groups and institutions helps create diplomatic relationships with them and the government.\n\nIn governmental parlence, autonomy refers to self-governance. An example of an autonomous jurisdiction was the former United States governance of the Philippine Islands. The \"Philippine Autonomy Act of 1916\" provided the framework for the creation of an autonomous government under which the Filipino people had broader domestic autonomy than previously, although it reserved certain privileges to the United States to protect its sovereign rights and interests. Another example was the status of Kosovo as the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo under the former Yugoslav government of Marshal Tito.\n\nAutonomy is a key concept that has a broad impact on different fields of philosophy. In metaphysical philosophy, the concept of autonomy is referenced in discussions about free will, fatalism, determinism, and agency. In \"How to Make Good Decisions and Be Right All the Time\", philosopher Iain King developed an 'Autonomy Principle', which he defines as \"Let people choose for themselves, unless we know their interests better than they can.\" King argues it is not enough to know someone else's interests better than the person; autonomy should only be infringed if a person is \"unable\" to know their own interests on a particular matter. In moral philosophy, autonomy refers to subjecting oneself to objective moral law.\n\nImmanuel Kant (1724–1804) defined autonomy by three themes regarding contemporary ethics. Firstly, autonomy as the right for one to make their own decisions excluding any interference from others. Secondly, autonomy as the capacity to make such decisions through one's own independence of mind and after personal reflection. Thirdly, as an ideal way of living life autonomously. In summary, autonomy is the moral right one possesses, or the capacity we have in order to think and make decisions for oneself providing some degree of control or power over the events that unfold within one's everyday life.\n\nThe context in which Kant addresses autonomy is in regards to moral theory, asking both foundational and abstract questions. He believed that in order for there to be morality, there must be autonomy. He breaks down autonomy into two distinct components. “Auto” can be defined as the negative form of independence, or to be free in a negative sense. This is the aspect where decisions are made on your own. Whereas, “nomos” is the positive sense, a freedom or lawfulness, where you are choosing a law to follow. Kantian autonomy also provides a sense of rational autonomy, simply meaning one rationally possesses the motivation to govern their own life. Rational autonomy entails making your own decisions but it cannot be done solely in isolation. Cooperative rational interactions are required to both develop and exercise our ability to live in a world with others.\n\nKant argued that morality presupposes this autonomy () in moral agents, since moral requirements are expressed in categorical imperatives. An imperative is categorical if it issues a valid command independent of personal desires or interests that would provide a reason for obeying the command. It is hypothetical if the validity of its command, if the reason why one can be expected to obey it, is the fact that one desires or is interested in something further that obedience to the command would entail. \"Don't speed on the freeway if you don't want to be stopped by the police\" is a hypothetical imperative. \"It is wrong to break the law, so don't speed on the freeway\" is a categorical imperative. The hypothetical command not to speed on the freeway is not valid for you if you do not care whether you are stopped by the police. The categorical command is valid for you either way. Autonomous moral agents can be expected to obey the command of a categorical imperative even if they lack a personal desire or interest in doing so. It remains an open question whether they will, however.\n\nThe Kantian concept of autonomy is often misconstrued, leaving out the important point about the autonomous agent's self-subjection to the moral law. It is thought that autonomy is fully explained as the ability to obey a categorical command independently of a personal desire or interest in doing so—or worse, that autonomy is \"obeying\" a categorical command independently of a natural desire or interest; and that heteronomy, its opposite, is acting instead on personal motives of the kind referenced in hypothetical imperatives.\n\nIn his \"Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals\", Kant applied the concept of autonomy also to define the concept of personhood and human dignity. Autonomy, along with rationality, are seen by Kant as the two criteria for a meaningful life. Kant would consider a life lived without these not worth living; it would be a life of value equal to that of a plant or insect. According to Kant autonomy is part of the reason that we hold others morally accountable for their actions. Human actions are morally praise- or blame-worthy in virtue of our autonomy. Non- autonomous beings such as plants or animals are not blameworthy due to their actions being non-autonomous. Kant's position on crime and punishment is influenced by his views on autonomy. Brainwashing or drugging criminals into being law-abiding citizens would be immoral as it would not be respecting their autonomy. Rehabilitation must be sought in a way that respects their autonomy and dignity as human beings.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche wrote about autonomy and the moral fight. Autonomy in this sense is referred to as the free self and entails several aspects of the self, including self-respect and even self-love. This can be interpreted as influenced by Kant (self-respect) and Aristotle (self-love). For Nietzsche, valuing ethical autonomy can dissolve the conflict between love (self-love) and law (self-respect) which can then translate into reality through experiences of being self-responsible. Because Nietzsche defines having a sense of freedom with being responsible for one's own life, freedom and self-responsibility can be very much linked to autonomy.\n\nThe Swiss philosopher Jean Piaget (1896-1980) believed that autonomy comes from within and results from a “free decision”. It is of intrinsic value and the morality of autonomy is not only accepted but obligatory. When an attempt at social interchange occurs, it is reciprocal, ideal and natural for there to be autonomy regardless of why the collaboration with others has taken place. For Piaget, the term autonomous can be used to explain the idea that rules are self-chosen. By choosing which rules to follow or not, we are in turn determining our own behaviour.\n\nPiaget studied the cognitive development of children by analyzing them during their games and through interviews, establishing (among other principles) that the children moral maturation process occurs in two phases, the first of heteronomy and the second of autonomy:\nRules are objective and unchanging. They must be literal because the authority are ordering it and do not fit exceptions or discussions. The base of the rule is the superior authority (parents, adults, the State), that it should not give reason for the rules imposed or fulfilled them in any case. Duties provided are conceived as given from oneself. Any moral motivation and sentiments are possible through what one believes to be right. \nRules are the product of an agreement and, therefore, are modifiable. They can be subject to interpretation and fit exceptions and objections. The base of the rule is its own acceptance, and its meaning has to be explained. Sanctions must be proportionate to the absence, assuming that sometimes offenses can go unpunished, so that collective punishment is unacceptable if it is not the guilty. The circumstances may not punish a guilty. Duties provided are conceived as given from the outside. One follows rules mechanically as it is simply a rule, or as a way to avoid a form of punishment.\n\nThe American psychologist Lawrence Kohlberg (1927-1987) continues the studies of Piaget. His studies collected information from different latitudes to eliminate the cultural variability, and focused on the moral reasoning, and not so much in the behavior or its consequences. Through interviews with adolescent and teenage boys, who were to try and solve “moral dilemmas,” Kohlberg went on to further develop the stages of moral development. The answers they provided could be one of two things. Either they choose to obey a given law, authority figure or rule of some sort or they chose to take actions that would serve a human need but in turn break this given rule or command.\n\nThe most popular moral dilemma asked involved the wife of a man approaching death due to a special type of cancer. Because the drug was too expensive to obtain on his own, and because the pharmacist who discovered and sold the drug had no compassion for him and only wanted profits, he stole it. Kohlberg asks these adolescent and teenage boys (10-, 13- and 16-year-olds) if they think that is what the husband should have done or not. Therefore, depending on their decisions, they provided answers to Kohlberg about deeper rationales and thoughts and determined what they value as important. This value then determined the “structure” of their moral reasoning.\n\nKohlberg established three stages of morality, each of which is subdivided into two levels. They are read in progressive sense, that is, higher levels indicate greater autonomy.\n\nAutonomy in childhood and adolescence is when one strives to gain a sense of oneself as a separate, self-governing individual. Between ages 1–3, during the second stage of Erikson's and Freud's stages of development, the psychosocial crisis that occurs is autonomy versus shame and doubt. The significant event that occurs during this stage is that children must learn to be autonomous, and failure to do so may lead to the child doubting their own abilities and feel ashamed. When a child becomes autonomous it allows them to explore and acquire new skills. Autonomy has two vital aspects wherein there is an emotional component where one relies more on themselves rather than their parents and a behavioural component where one makes decisions independently by using their judgement. The styles of child rearing affect the development of a child's autonomy. Authoritative child rearing is the most successful approach, where the parents engage in autonomy granting appropriate to their age and abilities. Autonomy in adolescence is closely related to their quest for identity. In adolescence parents and peers act as agents of influence. Peer influence in early adolescence may help the process of an adolescent to gradually become more autonomous by being less susceptible to parental or peer influence as they get older. In adolescence the most important developmental task is to develop a healthy sense of autonomy.\n\nIn Christianity, autonomy is manifested as a partial self-governance on various levels of church administration. During the history of Christianity, there were two basic types of autonomy. Some important parishes and monasteries have been given special autonomous rights and privileges, and the best known example of monastic autonomy is the famous Eastern Orthodox monastic community on Mount Athos in Greece. On the other hand, administrative autonomy of entire ecclesiastical provinces has throughout history included various degrees of internal self-governance.\n\nIn ecclesiology of Eastern Orthodox Churches, there is a clear distinction between autonomy and autocephaly, since autocephalous churches have full self-governance and independence, while every autonomous church is subjected to some autocephalous church, having a certain degree of internal self-governance. Since every autonomous church had its own historical path to ecclesiastical autonomy, there are significant differences between various autonomous churches in respect of their particular degrees of self-governance. For example, churches that are autonomous can have their highest-ranking bishops, such as an archbishop or metropolitan, appointed or confirmed by the patriarch of the mother church from which it was granted its autonomy, but generally they remain self-governing in many other respects.\n\nIn the history of Western Christianity the question of ecclesiastical autonomy was also one of the most important questions, especially during the first centuries of Christianity, since various archbishops and metropolitans in Western Europe have often opposed centralizing tendencies of the Church of Rome. For example, the Roman Catholic Church is governed by its canon law which applies to all Roman Catholic churches which are thus not considered autonomous. Various denominations of Protestant churches usually have more decentralized power, and churches may be autonomous, thus having their own rules or laws of government, at the national, local, or even individual level.\n\nSartre brings the notion of the Cartesian god being totally free and autonomous. He states that existence precedes essence with god being the creator of the essences, eternal truths and divine will. This pure freedom of god relates to human freedom and autonomy; where a human is not subjected to pre-existing ideas and values.\n\nAccording to the first amendment, In the United States of America, the federal government is restricted in building a national church. This is due to the first amendment's recognizing people's freedom's to worship their faith according to their own belief's. For example, the American government has removed the church from their \"sphere of authority\" due to the churches historical impact on politics and their authority on the public. This was the beginning of the disestablishment process. The Protestant churches in the United States had a large impact on American culture, in the nineteenth century, where they organized the establishment of schools, hospitals, orphanages, colleges, magazines etc. This has brought up the famous, however, misinterpreted term of the separation of church and state. These churches lost the legislative and financial support from the state.\n\nThe first disestablishment began with the introduction of the bill of rights. In the twentieth century, due to the great depression of the 1930s and the completion of the second world war, the American churches were revived. Specifically the Protestant churches. This was the beginning of the second disestablishment were churches had become popular again but held no legislative power. One of the main reasons why the churches gained attendance and popularity was due to the baby boom. Where soldiers came back from the second world war and started their families. The large influx of newborns gave the churches a new wave of followers. However, these followers did not hold the same beliefs as their parents and brought upon the political, and religious revolutions of the 1960s.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the collapse of religious and cultural middle brought upon the third disestablishment. Religion became important to the individual and less likely the community. The changes brought from these revolutions significantly increased the personal autonomy of individuals due to the lack of structural restraints giving their added freedom of choice. This concept is known as \"new voluntarism\" where individuals have free choice on how to be religious and the free choice whether to be religious or not.\n\nIn a medical context, respect for a patient's personal autonomy is considered one of many fundamental ethical principles in medicine. Autonomy can be defined as the ability of the person to make his or her own decisions. This faith in autonomy is the central premise of the concept of informed consent and shared decision making. This idea, while considered essential to today's practice of medicine, was developed in the last 50 years. According to Tom Beauchamp and James Childress (in \"Principles of Biomedical Ethics\"), the Nuremberg trials detailed accounts of horrifyingly exploitative medical \"experiments\" which violated the subjects' physical integrity and personal autonomy. These incidences prompted calls for safeguards in medical research, such as the Nuremberg Code which stressed the importance of voluntary participation in medical research. It is believed that the Nuremberg Code served as the premise for many current documents regarding research ethics.\n\nRespect for autonomy became incorporated in health care and patients could be allowed to make personal decisions about the health care services that they receive. Notably, autonomy has several aspects as well as challenges that affect health care operations. The manner in which a patient is handled may undermine or support autonomy of a patient and for this reason, the way a patient is communicated to becomes very crucial. A good relationship between a patient and a health care practitioner needs to be well defined to ensure that autonomy of a patient is respected. Just like in any other life situation, a patient would not like to be under the control of another person. The move to emphasize respect for patient's autonomy rose from the vulnerabilities that were pointed out in regards to autonomy.\n\nHowever, autonomy does not only apply in a research context. Users of the health care system have the right to be treated with respect for their autonomy, instead of being dominated by the physician. This is referred to as paternalism. While paternalism is meant to be overall good for the patient, this can very easily interfere with autonomy. Through the therapeutic relationship, a thoughtful dialogue between the client and the physician may lead to better outcomes for the client, as he or she is more of a participant in decision-making.\n\nAutonomy varies and some patients find it overwhelming especially the minors when faced with emergency situations. It is important to note that not every patient is capable of making an autonomous decision. those who are unable to make the decisions prompt a challenge to medical practitioners since it becomes difficult to determine the ability of a patient to make a decision. to some extent, it has been said that emphasis of autonomy in health care has undermined the practice of health care practitioners to improve the health of their patient as necessary. The scenario has led to tension in the relationship between a patient and a health care practitioner. This is because as much as a physician want to prevent a patient from suffering, he or she still has to respect autonomy. Beneficence allows physicians to act responsibly in their practice, which may involve overlooking autonomy. The gap between a patient and a physician has led to problems because in other cases, the patients have complained of not being adequately informed.\n\nThe seven elements of informed consent (as defined by Beauchamp and Childress) include threshold elements (competence and voluntariness), information elements (disclosure, recommendation, and understanding) and consent elements (decision and authorization). Some philosophers such as Harry Frankfurt consider Beauchamp and Childress criteria insufficient. They claim that an action can only be considered autonomous if it involves the exercise of the capacity to form higher-order values about desires when acting intentionally. What this means is that patients may understand their situation and choices but would not be autonomous unless the patient is able to form value judgements about their reasons for choosing treatment options they would not be acting autonomously.\n\nThere are many different definitions of autonomy, many of which place the individual in a social context. See also: relational autonomy, which suggests that a person is defined through their relationships with others, and \"supported autonomy\" which suggests that in specific circumstances it may be necessary to temporarily compromise the autonomy of the person in the short term in order to preserve their autonomy in the long-term. Other definitions of the autonomy imagine the person as a contained and self-sufficient being whose rights should not be compromised under any circumstance.\n\nIn certain unique circumstances, government may have the right to temporarily override the right to bodily integrity in order to preserve the life and well-being of the person. Such action can be described using the principle of \"supported autonomy\", a concept that was developed to describe unique situations in mental health (examples include the forced feeding of a person dying from the eating disorder anorexia nervosa, or the temporary treatment of a person living with a psychotic disorder with antipsychotic medication). While controversial, the principle of supported autonomy aligns with the role of government to protect the life and liberty of its citizens. Terrence F. Ackerman has highlighted problems with these situations, he claims that by undertaking this course of action physician or governments run the risk of misinterpreting a conflict of values as a constraining effect of illness on a patient's autonomy.\n\nSince the 1960s, there have been attempts to increase patient autonomy including the requirement that physician's take bioethics courses during their time in medical school. Despite large-scale commitment to promoting patient autonomy, public mistrust of medicine in developed countries has remained. Onora O'Neill has ascribed this lack of trust to medical institutions and professionals introducing measures that benefit themselves, not the patient. O’Neill claims that this focus on autonomy promotion has been at the expense of issues like distribution of healthcare resources and public health.\n\nOne proposal to increase patient autonomy is through the use of support staff. The use of support staff including medical assistants, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, nurses, and other staff that can promote patient interests and better patient care. Nurses especially can learn about patient beliefs and values in order to increase informed consent and possibly persuade the patient through logic and reason to entertain a certain treatment plan. This would promote both autonomy and beneficence, while keeping the physician's integrity intact. Furthermore, Humphreys asserts that nurses should have professional autonomy within their scope of practice (35-37). Humphreys argues that if nurses exercise their professional autonomy more, then there will be an increase patient autonomy (35-37).\n\nAfter the Second World War there was a push for international human rights that came in many waves. Autonomy as a basic human right started the building block in the beginning of these layers alongside with liberty. The Universal declarations of Human rights of 1948 has made mention of autonomy or the legal protected right to individual self-determination in article 22.\n\nDocuments such as the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples reconfirm international law in the aspect of human rights because those laws were already there, but it is also responsible for making sure that the laws highlighted when it comes to autonomy, cultural and integrity and land rights are made within an indigenous context by taking special attention to their historical and contemporary events\n\nThe United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples article 3 also through international law provides Human rights for Indigenous individuals through its third article by giving them a right to self-determination meaning they have all the liberties to chose their political status, and are capable to go and improve their economics social, and cultural statuses in society by developing it. Another example of this is article 4 of the same document which gives them autonomous rights when it comes to their internal or local affairs and how they can fund themselves in order to be able to self govern themselves.\n\nMinorities in countries are also protected as well by international law; the 27th article of the United Nations International covenant on Civil and Political rights or the ICCPR does so by allowing these individuals to be able to enjoy their own culture or use their language. Minorities in that manner are people from ethnic religious or linguistic groups according to the document.\n\nThe European Court of Human rights, is an international court that has been created on behalf of the European Conventions of Human rights. However, when it comes to autonomy they did not explicitly state it when it comes to the rights that individuals have. The current article 8 has remedied to that when the case of \"Pretty v the United Nations which was a case in 2002 involving assisted suicide\" where autonomy was used as a legal right in law. It was where Autonomy was distinguished and its reach into law was marked as well making it the foundations for legal precedent in making case law originating from the European Court of Human rights\n\nThe Yogyakarta Principles, a document with no binding effect in international human rights law, contend that \"self-determination\" used as meaning of autonomy on one's own matters including informed consent or sexual and reproductive rights, is integral for one's self-defined or gender identity and refused any medical procedures as a requirement for legal recognition of the gender identity of transgender. If eventually accepted by the international community in a treaty, this would make these ideas human rights in the law. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also defines autonomy as principles of rights of a person with disability including \"the freedom to make one's own choices, and independence of persons\".\n\nA study conducted by David C. Giles and John Maltby conveyed that after age effecting factors were removed a high emotional autonomy was a significant predictor of celebrity interest, as well as high attachment to peers with a low attachment to parents. Patterns of intense personal interest in celebrities was found to be conjunction with low levels of closeness and security. Furthermore, the results suggested that adults with a secondary group of pseudo-friends during development from parental attachment, usually focus solely on one particular celebrity, which could be due to difficulties in making this transition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18892997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18892997", "title": "China Folk Culture Village", "text": "China Folk Culture Village\n\nThe China Folk Culture Village (深圳中国民俗文化村) is a part of Splendid China Folk Village in Shenzhen, China. It is located adjacent to the Splendid China theme park and features displays of the daily life and architecture of China's 56 ethnic groups. It was opened to the public in October 1991.\n\nThe park's recreated villages include the following:\n\n\nThe China Folk Culture Village has featured several cultural festivals, including the Water Splashing Festival of the Dai, the Shawm Festival of the Miao, the Torch Festival of the Yi, the Huaxia Great Cultural Temple Fair, the Xinjiang Cultural Festival, and the Inner Mongolia Grassland Cultural Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38350744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38350744", "title": "Conductive pedagogy", "text": "Conductive pedagogy\n\nConductive pedagogy is pedagogy especially useful for disabled pupils like those with cerebral palsy. The main principles are:\n\n\nThere are brilliant people that had disabilities like the blind Homer who wrote the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", the deaf Beethoven who is one of the most famous and influential of all composers. and the physically disabled Toulouse-Lautrec who is the most well-known painters of the Post-Impressionist period. In a 2005 auction one of his paintings sold for \n\n"}
{"id": "1698415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1698415", "title": "Credit (creative arts)", "text": "Credit (creative arts)\n\nIn general, the term credit in the artistic or intellectual sense refers to an acknowledgement of those who contributed to a work, whether through ideas or in a more direct sense.\n\nIn the creative arts, credits are an acknowledgement of those who participated in the production. They are often shown at the end of movies and on CD jackets. In film, video, television, theater, etc., \"credits\" means the list of actors and behind-the-scenes staff who contributed to the production.\n\nIn non-fiction writing, especially academic works, it is generally considered important to give credit to sources of information and ideas. Failure to do so often gives rise to charges of plagiarism, and \"piracy\" of intellectual rights such as the right to receive a royalty for having written. In this sense the financial and individual meanings are linked.\n\nAcademic papers generally contain a lengthy section of footnotes or citations. Such detailed crediting of sources provides readers with an opportunity to discover more about the cited material. It also provides a check against misquotation, as it's easy for an attributed quote to be checked when the reference is available. All of this is thought to improve integrity of the instructional capital conveyed, which may be quite fragile, and easy to misinterpret or to misapply.\n\nIn fiction writing, authors are generally expected to give credit to those who contributed significantly to a work. Sometimes authors who do not want credit for their work directly may choose to use a pen name. A ghostwriter gives all or some of the credit for his or her writing to someone else.\n\nIn computer software licenses, attribution of credit is sometimes a condition of licensing. For example, original versions of the BSD license controversially required credit to be provided in the advertisement for software that used licensed code, but only if features or use of the licensed software was mentioned in the advertisement.\n\nSoftware documentation is sometimes licensed under similar terms. For example, the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) used by Wikipedia requires that acknowledgments to authors be preserved.\n\n"}
{"id": "33738272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33738272", "title": "Cuisine of Mauritius", "text": "Cuisine of Mauritius\n\nThe cuisine of Mauritius is a blend of Chinese, European and Indian influences in the history of Mauritius. Dishes from French cuisine have grown very popular in Mauritius. Most of the dishes and practices into the culinary traditions are inspired from former slaves, Indian workers and Chinese migrant during the 19th century.\n\nMauritius has strong ties with French culture and exudes a French \"savoir vivre\". The popularity of French dishes like the bouillon, tuna salad the daube, civet de lièvre or coq au vin served with good wine show the prevalence of French culture in Mauritius even today. As years passed by, some have been adapted to the more exotic ingredients of the island to confer some unique flavor.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century, after the abolition of slavery, Indian workers who migrated to Mauritius brought their cuisine with them. Those indentured labourers came from different parts of India, each with their own culinary tradition, depending on the region. Traces of both northern and southern Indian cuisine can be found in Mauritius. Some common preparations are curry, chutney, rougaille (tomato paste that is very popular with fish) and pickles, most of which use local ingredients. The Mauritian versions of those dishes have a local flavour and differ, at times considerably, from the original Indian recipes.\n\nThe end of the 19th century saw the arrival of Chinese migrants, who came mostly from the south-eastern part of China. They are largely credited with making rice the staple diet of the island, and making noodles, both steamed and fried, popular. Chinese appetizers such as \"hakien\" (local version of the spring roll with a flour batter replacing the traditional rolled wrapping), crispy chicken and crispy squid have become part of the Mauritian folklore. Furthermore, Chinese and other Asian restaurants are present all around the island, and offer a variety of chicken, squid, beef and fish dishes, most typically prepared in black bean sauce or oyster sauce. Mauritian families often consider a dinner at an Asian restaurant as a treat.\n\nAlong the years, each of the country's community has adapted and mixed each other's cuisine to their liking.\n\nSugarcane was first introduced on the island when the Dutch colonised it in 1638. Even then, the propensity of making rum out of sugarcane was strongly recognised. Sugarcane was mainly cultivated for the production of \"arrack\", a precursor to rum. Only much later, after almost 60 years, the first proper sugar was produced.\n\nIt was during the French and English administration that sugar production was fully exploited, which considerably contributed to the economical development of the island. It was Pierre Charles François Harel who in 1850 initially proposed the concept of local distillation of rum in Mauritius. In part due to his efforts, Mauritius today houses four distilleries (Grays, Medine, Chamarel and St Aubin) and is in the process of opening an additional three. \n\nWhen it was discovered, the island of Mauritius was the home of a previously unknown species of bird, the dodo. Dodos were descendent of a type of pigeon which settled in Mauritius over 4 million years ago. With no predators to attack them, they lost their need and ability to fly. In 1505, the Portuguese became the first humans to set foot on Mauritius. The island quickly became a stopover for ships engaged in the spice trade. Weighing up to 50 pounds, the dodo was a welcome source of fresh meat for the sailors. Large numbers of dodos were killed for food. Later, when the Dutch used the island as a penal colony, new species were introduced to the island. Rats, pigs and monkeys ate dodo eggs in the ground nests. The combination of human exploitation and introduced species significantly reduced the dodo population. Within 100 years of the arrival of humans on Mauritius, the once abundant dodo became a rare bird. The last one was killed in 1681. The dodo is prominently featured as a supporter of the national Coat of arms of Mauritius.\n"}
{"id": "1526009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1526009", "title": "Cultural area", "text": "Cultural area\n\nIn anthropology and geography, a cultural region, cultural sphere, cultural area or culture area refers to a geographical area with one relatively homogeneous human activity or complex of activities (culture). These are often associated with an ethnolinguistic group and the territory it inhabits. Specific cultures often do not limit their geographic coverage to the borders of a nation state, or to smaller subdivisions of a state. Cultural \"spheres of influence\" may also overlap or form concentric structures of macrocultures encompassing smaller local cultures. Different boundaries may also be drawn depending on the particular aspect of interest, such as religion and folklore vs. dress and architecture vs. language.\n\nCultural areas are not considered equivalent to \"Kulturkreis\" (Culture circles).\n\nA culture area is a concept in cultural anthropology in which a geographic region and time sequence (age area) is characterized by substantially uniform environment and culture. The concept of culture areas was originated by museum curators and ethnologists during the late 1800s as means of arranging exhibits. Clark Wissler and Alfred Kroeber further developed the concept on the premise that they represent longstanding cultural divisions. The concept is criticized by some, who argue that the basis for classification is arbitrary. But other researchers disagree and the organization of human communities into cultural areas remains a common practice throughout the social sciences. The definition of culture areas is enjoying a resurgence of practical and theoretical interest as social scientists conduct more research on processes of cultural globalization.\n\nA formal culture region is an area inhabited by people who have one or more cultural traits in common, such as language, religion, or system of livelihood. It is an area relatively homogeneous with regard to one or more cultural traits. The geographer who identifies a formal culture region must locate cultural borders. Because cultures overlap and mix, such boundaries are rarely sharp even if only one cultural trait is mapped and so there are cultural border zones, rather than lines. The zones broaden with each additional cultural trait that is considered because no two traits have the same spatial distribution. As a result, instead of having clear borders, formal culture regions reveal a center or core, where the defining traits are all present. Away from the central core, the characteristics weaken and disappear. Thus, many formal culture regions display a core-periphery.\n\nIn contrast to the abstract cultural homogeneity of a formal culture region, a functional culture region may not be culturally homogeneous; instead, it is an area that has been organized to function politically, socially, or economically as one unit: a city, an independent state, a precinct, a church diocese or parish, a trade area or a farm. L Functional culture regions have nodes or central points where the functions are coordinated and directed, such as city halls, national capitols, precinct voting places, parish churches, factories, and banks. In that sense, functional regions also possess a core-periphery configuration, in common with formal culture regions. Many functional regions have clearly defined borders that include all land under the jurisdiction of a particular urban government that is clearly delineated on a regional map by a line distinguishing between one jurisdiction and another.\n\nVernacular, popular or perceptual cultural regions are those perceived to exist by their inhabitants, as is evident by the widespread acceptance and use of a distinctive regional name. Some vernacular regions are based on physical environmental features; others find their basis in economic, political or historical characteristics. Vernacular regions, like most culture regions, generally lack sharp borders, and the inhabitants of any given area may claim residence in more than one such region. It grows out of people's sense of belonging and identification with a particular region. An American example is \"Dixie\". They often lack the organization necessary for functional regions although they may be centered on a single urban node. They frequently do not display the cultural homogeneity that characterizes formal regions.\n\nAllen Noble gave a summary of the concept development of cultural regions using the terms \"cultural hearth\" (no origin of this term given), \"cultural core\" by Donald W. Meinig for Mormon culture published in 1970 and \"source area\" by Fred Kniffen (1965) and later Henry Glassie (1968) for house and barn types. Outside of a core area he quoted Meinigs' use of the terms \"domain\" (a dominant area) and \"sphere\" (area influenced but not dominant).\n\nA cultural boundary (also cultural border) in ethnology is a geographical boundary between two identifiable ethnic or ethnolinguistic cultures. A language border is necessarily also a cultural border, as language is a significant part of a society's culture)l, but it can also divide subgroups of the same ethnolinguistic group along more subtle criteria, such as the Brünig-Napf-Reuss line in German-speaking Switzerland, the Weißwurstäquator in Germany or the Grote rivieren boundary between Dutch and Flemish culture.\n\nIn the history of Europe, the major cultural boundaries are found:\n\nMacro-cultures on a continental scale are also referred to as \"worlds,\" \"spheres,\" or \"civilizations,\" such as the Muslim world.\n\nIn a modern context, a cultural boundary can also be a division between subcultures or classes within a given society, such as blue collar vs. white collar etc.\n\n\nCultural boundaries sometimes define the difference between friend and foe in political and military conflicts. Ethnic nationalism and pan-nationalism sometimes seek to unify all native speakers of a particular language, who are conceived of as a coherent ethnic group or nation, into a single nation-state with a unified culture. The association of an ethnolinguistic group with a nation-state may be written into nationality laws and repatriation laws, which establish eligibility for citizenship based on ethnicity, rather than place of birth.\n\nIn other cases, attempts have been made to divide countries based on cultural boundaries by secession or partition. For example, the Quebec sovereignty movement seeks to separate French-speaking province from English-speaking Canada to preserve its unique language and culture, and the Partition of India created separate majority-Hindu and majority-Muslim countries.\n\n\nA music area is a cultural area defined according to musical activity. It may or may not conflict with the cultural areas assigned to a given region. The world may be divided into three large music areas, each containing a \"cultivated\" or classical musics \"that are obviously its most complex musical forms,\" with, nearby, folk styles which interact with the cultivated, and, on the perimeter, primitive styles:\n\nHowever, he then adds that \"the world-wide development of music must have been a unified process in which all peoples participated\" and that one finds similar tunes and traits in puzzlingly isolated or separated locations throughout the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10042066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10042066", "title": "Developmental linguistics", "text": "Developmental linguistics\n\nDevelopmental linguistics is the study of the development of linguistic ability in an individual, particularly the acquisition of language in childhood. It involves research into the different stages in language acquisition, language retention, and language loss in both first and second languages, in addition to the area of bilingualism. Before infants can speak, the neural circuits in their brains are constantly being influenced by exposure to language.\nThe neurobiology of language contains a \"critical period\" in which children are most sensitive to language. The different aspects of language have varying \"critical periods\". Studies show that the critical period for phonetics is toward the end of the first year. At 18 months, a toddler's vocabulary vastly expands. The critical period for syntactic learning is 18-36 months. Infants of different mother languages can be differentiated at the age of 10 months. At 20 weeks they begin vocal imitation.\nBeginning when babies are about 12 months, they take on computational learning and social learning. Social interactions for infants and toddlers is important because it helps associate \"perception and action\". In-person social interaction rather than audio or video better facilitates learning in babies because they learn from how other people respond to them, especially their mothers.\nBabies have to learn to mimic certain syllables, which takes practice in manipulating tongue and lip movement. Sensory-motor learning in speech is linked to exposure to speech, which is very sensitive to language.\nInfants exposed to Spanish exhibit a different vocalization than infants exposed to English. One study took infants that were learning English and made them listen to Spanish in 12 sessions. The result showed consequent alterations in their vocalization, which demonstrated Spanish prosody. \nOne study used MEG to record activation in the brains of newborns, 6 months olds and 12 months olds while presenting them with syllables, harmonics and non-speech sounds. For the 6 month and 12 month old, the auditory and motor areas responded to speech. The newborn showed auditory activation but not motor activation. Another study presented 3 month olds with sentences and recorded their brain activity via fMRI motor speech areas did activate. These studies suggest that the link between perception and action begins to develop at 3 months.\nWhen babies are young, they are actually the most sensitive to distinguishing all phonetic units. During an infant’s 1st year of life, they have to differentiate between about 40 phonetic units. When they are older they have usually been exposed to their native language so much that they lose this ability and can only distinguish phonetic units in their native language. Even at 12 months babies exhibit a deficit in differentiated non-native sounds. However, their ability to distinguish sounds in their native language continues to improve and become more fine-tuned. For example, Japanese learning infants learn that there is no differentiation between /r/ and /l/. However, in English, \"rake\" and \"lake\" are two different words. Japanese babies eventually lose their ability to distinguish between /r/ and /l/.\nSimilarly, a Spanish learning infant cannot form words until they learn the difference between works like \"bano\" and \"pano\", because the /p/ sound is different than the /b/ sound. English learning babies do not learn to differentiate between the two.\n\nBabies learn early on to recognize prosodic cues. English speaking babies learn that the English language places a lot of stress on the first syllable, which is called trochaic or strong-weak prosody. The Polish prosodic pattern is the opposite and is called weak-strong or iambic prosody. At 7.5 months, English speaking infants can recognize their native pattern and segment words accordingly. They are able to identify the stress on words like \"pencil\" or \"stapler\". However, when they hear a phrase like \"guitar is\", they will perceive \"tar is\" as a unit since that is where the stress occurs.\nExposing babies to music can improve their listening skills. Music tunes their attention skills and helps them distinguish different sounds.\nA study was done that compared activity in the prefrontal cortex in a group of babies who had 12 sessions of music class compared to babies who took 12 sessions of a social class with no music. The study found that babies in the music classes had greater activity in the prefrontal cortex.\n\n"}
{"id": "19497918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19497918", "title": "Dolan people", "text": "Dolan people\n\nDolan (Uyghur: دولان, Долан Simplified Chinese: 刀朗, or 多朗) refers to a people or region of what is now Xinjiang Province, China. People who call themselves Dolan can be found in the Yarkand River valley, the Tarim River valley and the Lop Nur region of present-day Xinjiang. Though modern Dolan people now speak the vernacular dialect (usually Uyghur), the term refers to an earlier culture and civilization in the region. The history of this people is little known. Some scholars and travelers believed the Dolan of the Yarkand River valley to be a Kyrgyz or Kazakh group that settled in the area during the Qing Dynasty. This belief was based on their noticeably different physiognomy and language, and their semi-nomadic lifestyles.\n\nJohn Avetaranian met some of them and mentioned it in his autobiography.\n\nSome of the aspects of Dolan culture that remain to the present day include the unique style of music and dance. The music is performed with chants, plucked and bowed string instruments, and drums. This music is now grouped into a category of Uyghur Muqam music, although the instruments and musical characteristics are very different from the Uyghur 12 Muqam.\n\nThe plucked-string instruments used to perform Dolan Muqam, Dolan Meshrep or Dolan Pls are different from their counterparts in Uyghur folk music, and usually contain a large set of sympathetic strings that resonate with certain key tones, similar to the lutes and fiddles of India and the near east.\n\n"}
{"id": "24644831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24644831", "title": "Doobon coat", "text": "Doobon coat\n\nA Doobon coat (Hebrew: מעיל דובון, me'eel Doobon) is a resistant coat, made with padded nylon cover with cloth lining waterproof outer layer of filling between them isolated synthetic fibers. This coat has a regular hood. This is a coat designed for people who stay outdoors for a long time on cold days, such as soldiers and laborers.\n\nThis coat was first produced in 1971 by the Logistics Corps for the Israel Defense Forces soldiers, and is a part of the Israel Defense Forces Mess dress. It replaced the heavy woolen Greatcoat and the United States Battledress coat. The original Doobon coat colors were olive for most soldiers and blue for the air force and navy. These are almost the only colors it comes in, to date, although \"Khagor\" (\"חגור\") Ltd. received a concession to use the brand \"Doobon\" for coats sold both to the IDF and to civilians.\n\nOut of the army, this coat is worn mostly by Israelis who have to stay outdoors for long hours on winter time, and by those who belong to Zionist groups that manifest opposing trendy and fashion clothing. The Doobon coat is a sign of Modern Orthodox Judaism and residents of the Israeli settlements, as well as for socialist Zionists, including Kibbutz members.\n\nThe Doobon coat symbolizes being an Israeli in the work of various artists, including those of Yehonatan Geffen. In his \"Ballad of Druze\", he rhymed the words \"Druze\" (in Hebrew “Droozy” דרוזי) and \"Uzi\", and phrased \"Well, with the Doobon and the Uzi, who can see he is a Druze?\"\n\nThe Argentine Army used this coat during the Falklands War, and produced its own version.\n\n"}
{"id": "9255389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9255389", "title": "Fales Library", "text": "Fales Library\n\nNew York University's Fales Library and Special Collections is located on the third floor of the Elmer Holmes Bobst Library at 70 Washington Square South between LaGuardia Place and the Schwartz Plaza, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City. It houses nearly 200,000 volumes, and of archive and manuscript materials. It contains the Fales Collection of rare books and manuscripts in English and American literature, the Downtown Collection, the Food and Cookery Collection, and the general Special Collections from the NYU Libraries.\n\nThe Tracey-Barry Gallery offers public exhibits of materials from the Library's collections.\n\nThe Fales Collection was given to NYU in 1957 by DeCoursey Fales in memory of his father, Haliburton Fales. It is especially strong in English literature from the middle of the 18th century to the present, documenting developments in the novel. Other related collections held in Fales include the Berol Collection of Lewis Carroll Materials, the Robert Frost Library, the Nelson F. Adkins collection of American Literature, and the manuscript collections of Elizabeth Robins, Peter Straub, E. L. Doctorow and Erich Maria Remarque. \n\nThe Downtown Collection documents the downtown New York city art, performance, film, and literary landscape from 1975 to the present. In addition to thousands of published books and magazines, the Downtown Collection includes extensive holdings of archival and manuscript material; film and video; original artwork; theatrical models; and other realia. Archival holdings range from the personal papers of writers such as Dennis Cooper, Richard Foreman and Lynne Tillman to the papers of publishing ventures such as High Risk Books and Between C & D to the archives of organizations such as Creative Time and Mabou Mines and the Gonightclubbing Archive of late 1970's punk rock video, photos, interviews and ephemera.\n\nAn area of recent growth in Fales is the Food and Cookery Collection of well over 15,000 books. The personal libraries of James Beard, Cecily Brownstone, and Dalia Carmel form the core of this collection which continues to expand.\n\nThe Fales Library preserves manuscripts and original editions of books that are rare or important not only because of their texts, but also because of their value as artifacts.\n\nThe Fales Library holds the personal papers and/or archives of the following, among others:\n\n"}
{"id": "1151458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1151458", "title": "Fallen (1998 film)", "text": "Fallen (1998 film)\n\nFallen is a 1998 American supernatural detective thriller film directed by Gregory Hoblit, produced by Charles Roven and Dawn Steel, from a screenplay by Nicholas Kazan. The film tells the story of John Hobbes, a Philadelphia police detective who is investigating murders committed by an apparent copycat killer. The murderer is later revealed to be a fallen angel known as Azazel, who possesses human beings by touch. Denzel Washington, Embeth Davidtz, James Gandolfini, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland and Elias Koteas star. \"Fallen\" was released on January 16, 1998, by Warner Bros. The film grossed $25.2 million against its budget of $46 million. It has a 40% approval rating at Rotten Tomatoes, which calls it \"not all that thrilling\".\n\nAn opening voiceover announces that this is the story of \"how I almost died\".\n\nPhiladelphia Police Detective John Hobbes visits serial killer Edgar Reese, whom he helped capture, on death row. Reese grabs Hobbes' hand and says something in an unknown language, later identified as Aramaic. As he is executed in the gas chamber, Reese sings \"Time is on My Side\" by the Rolling Stones. \n\nHobbes and his partner Jonesy investigate a string of murders by an apparent copycat killer. Hobbes, through hints given initially by Reese, and later by the apparent copycat killer, tracks down a woman named Gretta Milano. Gretta explains that her father, a former detective, killed himself after being accused of a series of demonic-themed murders similar to the current ones. Hobbes goes to the Milano family's lake-house, and finds books concerning demonic possession. He also discovers the name \"Azazel\" written on a wall.\n\nWhen Hobbes mentions the name to Gretta, she gravely advises him to drop the case to protect his life and family. However, she reconsiders after a terrifying encounter with a man on the street. Gretta explains to Hobbes that Azazel is a fallen angel with the power to possess human beings by touch. Hobbes realises that Azazel, while possessing Edgar Reese, touched Hobbes before the execution, but was not able to possess him. Gretta explains that the demon will try to ruin his life by another way, and warns him of the inevitability of Azazel's victory. Azazel finds Hobbes at his precinct and taunts him while jumping from body to body, singing \"Time is on My Side.\" Hobbes counters that he knows of Azazel's true identity, to which the demon responds, \"Beware my wrath\", and disappears.\n\nTo provoke Hobbes, Azazel possesses his nephew Sam and attacks John's intellectually disabled brother Art in their home. He flees into other people on the street, ending up in a schoolteacher. As the teacher, Azazel draws a gun and forces Hobbes to shoot his host in front of a group of bystanders. Azazel boasts to Hobbes that even if his current host body is killed, he can transfer to any new host body in the surrounding area, without even needing to touch them. \n\nLieutenant Stanton informs Hobbes that his fingerprints were found at one of the murder scenes and along with the bizarre circumstances of the shooting of the teacher Azazel possessed, he has become a suspect for all the murders. Azazel inhabits several of the witnesses and gives false accounts that the shooting was unprovoked, throwing further suspicion on Hobbes. He also comes into his home and murders his brother, whilst also marking Sam. Hobbes then takes his nephew to Gretta's house, to keep him safe. Gretta explains that, if forced out of a host body, Azazel can only travel in spirit form for as long as one breath can sustain him; if he does not possess another host in time, he will die permanently.\n\nHobbes goes to the Milano's cabin and calls Jonesy, knowing he will trace the call. Stanton and Jonesy show up to arrest Hobbes; however, Jonesy reveals himself to be possessed by Azazel and kills Stanton. Azazel prepares to shoot himself, which will allow him to possess Hobbes, the only other person for miles. Hobbes attacks Jonesy and in the ensuing struggle manages to shoot and mortally wound him. Hobbes explains that he has poisoned himself, which will leave Azazel without a host, before shooting and killing Jonesy. Azazel takes possession of Hobbes' body and frantically attempts to flee, but succumbs to the poison and dies. Hobbes, in voiceover, reminds the viewer this is the story of how he \"almost\" died, revealing that he is really Azazel. A cat, who has been possessed by Azazel, emerges from underneath the cabin and begins heading back to civilization.\n\n\n\"Fallen\" was released in 2,448 cinemas on 16 January 1998. It landed at #3 at the box office and made $10.4 million in its opening weekend. In its second weekend, it made $4.9 million. After being in cinemas for four weeks, the film made $23.3 million in the US and $981.2 thousand overseas for a total of $25.2 million.\n\nThe review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 40% of critics give the film a positive review based on 57 reviews. The site's consensus reads: \"Has an interesting premise. Unfortunately, it's just a recycling of old materials, and not all that thrilling.\" Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" called it \"A stylish if seriously far-fetched nightmare,\" but \"Variety\" wrote that \"Washington has the almost impossible task of holding together a convoluted picture that's only intermittently suspenseful and not very engaging emotionally or intellectually.\" Roger Ebert gave the film a mixed review, writing \"the idea is better than the execution, and by the end, the surprises become too mechanical and inevitable.” The \"Chicago Reader\" praised Washington's performance, but referring to the film's continual use of The Rolling Stones song \"Time Is on My Side\", wrote, \"The first half of this movie holds some promise, but time is not on its side.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1683236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1683236", "title": "Film Socialisme", "text": "Film Socialisme\n\nFilm Socialisme alternative French title Socialisme, but often referred to as Film Socialism, is a 2010 French film directed by Jean-Luc Godard.\n\nThe film was first screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival, to a widely varying reception, and released in France two days later, on 19 May 2010. It screened at the 48th New York Film Festival in 2010, the 27th film that Godard has shown at the festival.\n\nAccording to the synopsis on the film's official website, the film is composed of three movements:\n\n\n\nPrincipal photography began in 2008, and the film was originally scheduled for a 10 January 2010 release, but an extended post-production delayed its release. Most of the film was shot around the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nThe film is Godard's first in HD video and the 16:9 aspect ratio, as well as his first in several decades not be photographed with an intended aspect ratio of 4:3. Though Godard was one of the first major directors to shoot and edit on video, and has incorporated video footage and editing into most of his work since the mid-1970s, this is the first theatrical release from him to be shot entirely in a digital format. As with many of his films, Godard's partner Anne-Marie Miéville worked on the film, other people credited as collaborators being Fabrice Aragno and Louma Sanbar, who also have worked with Godard before.\n\nThe cruise ship is the \"Costa Concordia\", sailing around the Mediterranean Sea. This ship was wrecked in real life in January 2012.\n\nReviews for \"Film Socialisme\" were mixed. The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 59% of mainstream critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 56 reviews. Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 64 out of 100, based on 13 reviews.\n\nMichael Phillips, film critic for the Chicago Tribune gave the movie three stars out of four, writing, \"Those receptive to Godard's sense of humor will find \"Film Socialisme\" an elusive yet expansive provocation. Those less receptive will find it elusive, period\".\n\nBritish film critic Mark Kermode attended the premiere screening at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival, describing it later as the worst film of the festival. Kermode would include \"Film Socialisme\" in his list of the worst ten films of 2011. \n\nRoger Ebert described the film as \"an affront. It is incoherent, maddening, deliberately opaque and heedless of the ways in which people watch movies.\"\n\n\"Film Socialisme\" was screened at numerous film festivals around the world including,\n\n"}
{"id": "1045028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1045028", "title": "Gay Nineties", "text": "Gay Nineties\n\nThe Gay Nineties is an American nostalgic term and a periodization of the history of the United States referring to the decade of the 1890s. It is known in the United Kingdom as the Naughty Nineties, and refers there to the decade of supposedly decadent art of Aubrey Beardsley, the witty plays and trial of Oscar Wilde, society scandals and the beginning of the suffragette movement.\n\nDespite the term, the decade was marked by an economic crisis, which greatly worsened when the Panic of 1893 set off a widespread economic depression in the United States that lasted until 1896.\n\nThe term \"Gay Nineties\" itself began to be used in the 1920s in the United States and is believed to have been created by the artist Richard V. Culter, who first released a series of drawings in \"Life\" magazine entitled \"the Gay Nineties\" and later published a book of drawings with the same name. The phrase has nothing to do with the modern usage of the term \"gay\" to refer to homosexuality and instead refers to the former meaning of the word, though a gay bar in Minneapolis, Minnesota uses the phrase as its name.\n\nNovels by authors like Edith Wharton and Booth Tarkington documented the high life of the \"old money\" families. By the 1920s, the decade was nostalgically seen as a period of pre-income tax wealth for a newly emergent \"society set\". The railroads, the agricultural depression of the Southern United States, and the dominance of the United States in South American markets and the Caribbean meant that industrialists of New England seemed to have been doing very well.\n\nIt was also the name of a nostalgic radio program in the 1930s, hosted by a prominent composer of popular songs of the 1890s, Joe Howard, as well as an 1890s-themed New York cafe, \"Bill's Gay Nineties\", during that same period. From the 1920s to the 1960s, filmmakers had a nostalgic interest in the 1890s, as can be seen in the films \"The Naughty Nineties\", \"She Done Him Wrong\", \"Belle of the Nineties\", \"The Strawberry Blonde\", \"My Gal Sal\", \"The Nifty Nineties\", \"By the Light of the Silvery Moon\", and \"Hello, Dolly!.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58626425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58626425", "title": "God Knows Where I Am", "text": "God Knows Where I Am\n\nGod Knows Where I Am is a 2017 American documentary film directed by Todd Wider and Jedd Wider, and produced by Brian Ariotti, Lori Singer, Joseph Edelman, Todd Wider and Jedd Wider.\n\nThe film premiered to critical acclaim, and screened in cities and film festivals all over the world, winning numerous awards, including the \"Special Jury Prize for International Feature\" at Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival.\n\nThe documentary premiered on PBS stations in USA, on October 15, 2018.\n\nIn an abandoned New Hampshire farmhouse, a homeless woman's body is found. A diary lies near the body which contains notes of starvation and mental illness. However, this diary also contains things like beauty, humor, and other positive things along with a spiritual touch. Linda Bishop had been a prisoner of her own mind for about four months, and while waiting for God to save her, she was surviving on apples and rain water, all in the midst of one of the coldest winters on record. The unfolding saga of her story is told from her own perspective, and the perspective of others, describing our systemic failure to protect the homeless and mentally ill.\n\nThe film premiered on April 30, 2016 at the 2016 Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival. It later opened theatrically in the Spring of 2017 and played in multiple markets around the world. PBS stations will broadcast \"God Knows Where I Am\" nationwide on October 15, 2018. \n\nThe film received positive feedback from critics. Review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 84% based on reviews from 25 critics. Christopher Orr of \"The Atlantic\" called the film \"beautiful, evocative, and ultimately heartbreaking.\" Andy Webster of \"The New York Times\" named \"God Knows Where I Am\" a \"New York Times Critic's Pick.\" Amy Ellis Nutt of \"The Washington Post\" praised the film as \"remarkably moving.\" John DeFore of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" said the film was \"haunting and uncommonly artful.\"\n\nIn 2016, \"God Knows Where I Am\" won the Special Jury Prize for International Feature at Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival. Napa Valley Film Festival awarded the film with the Special Jury Award for Innovative Treatment of a Social Issue in a Documentary Feature. At the Salem Film Fest, \"God Knows Where I Am\" won the award for Best Cinematography from \"American Cinematographer\". The film was also named Best Documentary Feature at the Maryland International Film Festival, New Hampshire Film Festival, and American Documentary Film Festival.\n"}
{"id": "489007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489007", "title": "Hassan-i Sabbah", "text": "Hassan-i Sabbah\n\nHassan-e Sabbāh (mistakenly Hassan-i Sabbāh Persian: حسن صباح \"Hasan-e Sabbāh\") or Hassan as-Sabbāh (Arabic: حسن الصباح \"Ḥasan aṣ-Ṣabbāḥ\") (circa 1050–1124) was the leader of the Nizārī Ismā‘īlītes and the founder of the order known as Assassins. Assassins, who are often referred to as the \"Hashshashin\", was a group of fedayeen.\n\nHassan-e Sabbāh was a missionary who converted the Nizari in the late 11th century in the heart of the Alborz Mountains of northern Persia. He later seized a mountain fortress called Alamut.\n\nHassan is thought to have written an autobiography, which did not survive but seems to underlie the first part of an anonymous Isma'ili biography entitled \"Sargozasht-e Seyyednā\" (). The latter is known only from quotations made by later Persian authors. Hassan also wrote a treatise, in Persian, on the doctrine of \"ta'līm\", called, \"al-Fusul al-arba'a\" The text is no longer in existence, but fragments are cited or paraphrased by al-Shahrastānī and several Persian historians.\n\nThe possibly autobiographical information found in \"Sargozasht-i Seyyednā\" is the main source for Hassan's background and early life. According to this, Hassan-e Sabbāh was born in the city of Qom (Iran) in the 1050s to a family of Twelver Shī‘ah. His father was of Yemenite origins, who left the Sawād of Kufa hej (modern Iraq) to settle in the (predominantly Shi'a) town of Qom.\n\nEarly in his life, his family moved to Rayy. Rayy was a city that had a history of radical Islamic thought since the 9th century, with Hamdan Qarmaṭ as one of its teachers.\n\nIt was in this religious centre that Hassan developed a keen interest in metaphysical matters and adhered to the Twelver code of instruction. During the day he studied at home, and mastered palmistry, languages, philosophy, astronomy and mathematics (especially geometry).\n\nRayy was also the home of Ismā‘īlī missionaries in the Jibal. At the time, Isma'ilism was a growing movement in Persia and other lands east of Egypt. The Persian Isma'ilis supported the \"da'wa\" (\"mission\") directed by the Fatimid caliphate of Cairo and recognized the authority of the Imam-Caliph al-Mustanṣir (d. 1094), though Isfahan, rather than Cairo, may have functioned as their principal headquarters. The Ismā'īlī mission worked on three layers: the lowest was the foot soldier or \"fidā'ī\", followed by the \"rafīk\" or \"comrade\", and finally the \"Dā‘ī\" or \"missionary\". It has been suggested that the popularity of the Ismā'īlī religion in Persia was due to the people's dissatisfaction with the Seljuk rulers, who had recently removed local rulers.\n\nIn Rayy, a young Hassan came in touch with Amira Darrab, a comrade, who introduced him to the Ismā'īlī doctrine. Hassan was initially unimpressed, his interest gradually grew after participating in many passionate debates that discussed the merits of Ismā‘īl over Mūsā. Seeing the conviction of Darrab convinced Hassan to delve deeper into Ismā'īlī doctrines and beliefs, ultimately convincing him to see merit in switching to the Ismā‘īlī faith.\n\nAt the age of 17, Hassan converted and swore allegiance to the Fatimid Caliph in Cairo. Hassan's studies did not end with his crossing over. He further studied under two other \"dā‘iyyayn\", and as he proceeded on his path, he was looked upon with eyes of respect.\n\nHassan's austere and devoted commitment to the \"da'wa\" brought him in audience with the chief missionary of the region: ‘Abdu l-Malik ibn Attash. Ibn Attash, suitably impressed with the young seventeen-year-old Hassan, made him Deputy Missionary and advised him to go to Cairo to further his studies.\n\nHowever, Hassan did not go to Cairo. Some historians have postulated that Hassan, following his conversion, was playing host to some members of the Fatimid caliphate, and this was leaked to the anti-Fatimid and anti-Shī‘a vizier Nizam al-Mulk. This prompted his abandoning Rayy and heading to Cairo in 1076.\n\nHassan took about 2 years to reach Cairo. Along the way he toured many other regions that did not fall in the general direction of Egypt. Isfahan was the first city that he visited. He was hosted by one of the Missionaries of his youth, a man who had taught the youthful Hassan in Rayy. His name was Resi Abufasl and he further instructed Hassan.\n\nFrom here he went to Caucasian Albania (current Azerbaijan), hundreds of miles to the north, and from there through Armenia. Here he attracted the ire of priests following a heated discussion, and Hassan was thrown out of the town he was in.\n\nHe then turned south and traveled through Iraq, reached Damascus in Syria. He left for Egypt from Palestine. Records exist, some in the fragmentary remains of his autobiography, and from another biography written by Rashid-al-Din Hamadani in 1310, to date his arrival in Egypt at 30 August 1078.\n\nIt is unclear how long Hassan stayed in Egypt: about 3 years is the usually accepted amount of time. He continued his studies here, and became a full missionary.\n\nWhilst he was in Cairo, studying and preaching, he incurred the displeasure of the Chief of the Army, Badr al-Jamalī. This may have been a result of the fact that Hassan supported Nizar, the Ismaili Imam-Caliph al-Mustanṣir's elder son, as the next Imam. Hassan was briefly imprisoned by Badr al-Jamali. The collapse of a minaret of the jail was taken to be an omen in favor of Hassan and he was promptly released and deported. The ship that he was traveling on was wrecked. He was rescued and taken to Syria. Traveling via Aleppo and Baghdad, he terminated his journey at Isfahan in 1081.\n\nHassan's life now was totally devoted to the mission. Hassan toured extensively throughout Persia. In northern Persia, touching the south shore of the Caspian Sea, are the mountains of Alborz. These mountains were home to a people who had traditionally resisted attempts by both Arabs and Turkish subjugation; this place was also a home of Shī‘a leaning. The news of this Ismā'īlī's activities reached Nizam al-Mulk, who dispatched his soldiers with the orders for Hassan's capture. Hassan evaded them, and went deeper into the mountains.\n\nHis search for a base from which to guide his mission ended when in 1088 he found the castle of Alamut in the Rudbar area (modern Qazvin, Iran). It was a fort that stood guard over a valley that was about fifty kilometers long and five kilometers wide. This fortress had been built about the year 865; legend has it that it was built by a king who saw his eagle fly up to and perch upon a rock, a propitious omen, the importance of which this king, Wah Sudan ibn Marzuban, understood. Likening the perching of the eagle to a lesson given by it, he called the fort Aluh Amu(kh)t: the \"Eagles' Teaching\".\n\nHassan’s takeover of the fort was conducted without any significant bloodshed. To effect this transition Hassan employed a patient and deliberate strategy, one which took the better part of two years to effect. First Hassan sent his \"Daʻiyyīn\" and \"Rafīk\"s to win over the villages in the valley, and their inhabitants. Next, key people amongst this populace were converted, and finally, in 1090, Hassan took over the fort by infiltrating it with his converts. Hassan gave the former owner a draft drawn on the name of a wealthy landlord and told him to obtain the promised money from this man; when the landlord saw the draft with Hassan’s signature, he immediately paid the amount to the fort's owner, astonishing him. Another, probably apocryphal version of the takeover states that Hassan offered 3000 gold dinars to the fort's owner for the amount of land that would fit a buffalo’s hide. The terms having been agreed upon, Hassan cut the hide into strips and linked them into a large ring around the perimeter of the fort, whose owner was thus undone by his own greed. \n\nWhile legend holds that after capturing Alamut Hassan thereafter devoted himself so faithfully to study, that in the nearly 35 years he was there he never left his quarters, excepting only two times when he went up to the roof. This reported isolation is highly doubtful, given his extensive recruiting and organizational involvement in the growing Ismā'īlī insurrections in Persia and Syria. Nonetheless, Hassan was highly educated and was known for austerity, studying, translating, praying, fasting, and directing the activities of the Daʻwa: the propagation of the Nizarī doctrine was headquartered at Alamut. He knew the Qur'ān by heart, could quote extensively from the texts of most Muslim sects, and apart from philosophy, was well versed in mathematics, astronomy, alchemy, medicine, architecture, and the major scientific disciplines of his time. In a major departure from tradition, Hassan declared Persian to be the language of holy literature for Nizaris, a decision that resulted in all the Nizari Ismā'īlī literature from Persia, Syria, Afghanistan and Central Asia to be transcribed in Persian for several centuries.\n\nHassan, the founder of Nizari Ismailis in Persia, was designated by Marco Polo using a Syrian equivalent term known in Europe at that time, as \"Elder\" or \"Old Man of the Mountain\". Polo's travelogue describes Hassan as a charlatan who devised plots to convert young men to his sect. At the \"court\" of the \"Old Man of the Mountain\" \"they were educated in various languages and customs, courtly etiquette, and trained in martial and other skills\". At Alamut they had \"impressive libraries whose collections included books on various religious traditions, philosophical and scientific texts, and scientific equipment\".\n\n\"Xishiji\", a Chinese manuscript completed in 1263, re-tells the story similar to Polo's. The sect leaders \"ordered to send assassins to hide in those kingdoms which did not surrender. They stabbed their lords, and women as well, and they died\". A Nizari assassin is identified as \"fedāʾī\" or devotee, \"who offers his life for others or in the service of a particular cause\".\n\nHistorians and scholars identify Hassan-i Sabbah as the founder of the Nizari Assassins and their doctrine. It developed during the struggle for succession of Nizar to the Fatimid throne in Cairo that eventually laid the foundation of the Nizāri Ismā‘ilī Shia Islam. Since then, as a basic element of conservative nature, the Ismaili Imamate includes a \"hidden\" imam, in addition to the visible (or \"hazar\", meaning apparent) \"imam of the time\", acting as such in a community. An important task of the latter is the proliferation of the doctrine, and of the undisclosed imam's \"spiritual guidance\", in learning centers having instructors proficient in teaching techniques.\n\nDevotion of the \"true believers\" having \"absolute faith\" in the beliefs is another element originating from the times of Sabbah in Northern Iran, who \"was so devout that he even had one of his sons executed after he was accused of drunkenness\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36544537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36544537", "title": "Helena G. Wells", "text": "Helena G. Wells\n\nAgent Helena George \"H.G.\" Wells is a fictional character on the American television series \"Warehouse 13\", played by Jaime Murray. Agent Wells has been a recurring guest-character of the series playing the major antagonist of Season 2 and appearing alongside Agents Myka Bering and Pete Lattimer. Portrayed as having a genius-level intellect and a methodical nature, she is an inventor and author and a former agent of Warehouses 12 and 13.\n\nIn the season 3 episode \"Stand\", it is revealed that Wells joins Warehouse 12 in the year 1889. It is depicted in \"Stand\" and \"Vendetta\" that Helena begins her work as an agent from that time and continues up until sometime after 1899.\n\nAs an Agent of Warehouse 12 it is made clear that she dislikes the use of conventional firearms. When she brings the matter to her mentor and boss Chaturanga, he gives her a gun that stuns the victim with electricity. She likely used it as a base model for the Tesla (the primary firearm used by Agents of Warehouse 13) that she created with Nikola Tesla in 1893.\n\nAfter the loss of her daughter Christina, who was killed in a robbery while vacationing with cousins in Paris, Helena becomes obsessed with finding a way to turn back time and save her. This leads to the invention of the \"H.G. Wells' Time Machine\". Helena's time machine in Warehouse 13 differs from the machine described in the novel \"The Time Machine\" by H.G. Wells in that the device she presents is not a vehicle. Instead, it transports consciousness to a directed target across time.\n\nAfter several failed attempts to save her daughter's life Helena eventually realizes she is unable to change events from the past, and after murdering the men who killed her daughter, she continues to behave recklessly until she eventually inadvertently causes the death of a fellow agent. This event shocks her into the realization that she has become a danger, and she chooses to be bronzed to prevent any further damage. Bronzing is a form of punishment the Warehouse utilizes after conventional imprisonment has failed or is not an option. The subject is cast in bronze in a special machine, and thereafter remains conscious, but in a state that resembles cryogenic sleep where the aging process is stopped. She remains bronzed until set free by Leena on the order of James MacPherson in the season finale of season 1.\n\nAwakened from bronzing in the season 1 finale by Leena, Wells is taken away from the Warehouse by MacPherson. She later kills him during the Season 2 premiere episode \"Time Will Tell\". Throughout Season 2 Helena attempts to be reinstated at the Warehouse as an agent and enlists the aid of Myka Bering as an advocate for her cause. She is eventually reinstated in \"Vendetta\", but in \"Buried\" it is clear the ulterior motive for being reinstated is to destroy the world by inducing an extinction event through use of a stolen artifact. Planning to trigger a massive earthquake with the Minoan Trident in Yellowstone, she later fails to follow through when Myka Bering convinces her to stop by forcing her to have to shoot Myka if she wishes to carry out her plan. She voluntarily gives herself up for arrest following the confrontation and is taken away.\n\nDuring her incarceration in Season 3, Helena has no corporeal body, and is instead a holographic image. Her consciousness is projected by an artifact allowing her to converse while preventing any physical interaction. While in this state she persuades Myka to return to work at the Warehouse in the premiere \"The New Guy\", and is not seen again until she is brought in for consultation on a case she unsuccessfully worked in 1893 as shown in \"3...2...1...\"\n\nIn the finale episodes of Season 3, \"Emily Lake\" and \"Stand\", the main antagonist for the season, Walter Sykes, pursues finding Helena's physical form as well as her consciousness in order to reconstitute them. Myka Bering and Pete Lattimer find Helena's physical body in the personage of Ms. Emily Hannah Lake – a high school literature teacher living in Cheyenne, Wyoming. They later discover Helena's consciousness was separated from her physical body by using the Janus Coin artifact. They are unable to save her from being abducted by Marcus Diamond and their under-cover Warehouse agent Steve Jinks who deliver her to Sykes. Sykes reintegrates Helena's body and mind before taking her to China where he forces her to help him open a portal directly into Warehouse 13. She complies only to save Myka Bering's life after an unsuccessful attempt to save Tyler Struhl. Shortly afterward, Helena chooses to sacrifice her life in order to save the lives of her fellow agents from an explosion that obliterates the warehouse.\n\nIn the Season 4 premiere Artie Nielsen uses an artifact to turn back time 24 hours, and successfully finds a way to defuse the bomb that would destroy the Warehouse. Since he is successful in saving the Warehouse, Helena's death, her tragic hero's redemptive act of self-sacrifice, never happened. Artie later successfully advocates on Helena's behalf to keep her from being re-incarcerated. Helena becomes aware of this alternate timeline in \"Second Chance\", after she deduces, in the previous episode (\"Endless Wonder\"), that Artie used a time travel artifact to save the Warehouse. Also in this episode, Mrs. Frederic tells her to take the astrolabe and hide it where no one can find it.\n\nIn the season 4 episode, \"Instinct\", Helena is shown working as a forensic scientist for the Wisconsin police. She is also living, and romantically involved, with a man named Nate. Nate has an eight-year-old daughter named Adelaide, to whom Helena has taught Kenpo as well as deductive reasoning. When Myka confronts Helena and states her belief that Helena is running away from who she is by holding onto the surrogate daughter she has found in Adelaide, Helena becomes incensed and asks her to leave. Later, however, the two women reaffirm their bond and part ways on good terms.\n\nHelena's character was created within the series to have a remarkably tuned quality of deductive reasoning, extremely calm focus, and extraordinary attention to detail. Within the \"Warehouse 13\" universe this allows her character to be portrayed as a science-fiction type of Sherlock Holmes.\nThe Helena character is given an expertise in the martial art of Kenpo which she displays in multiple episodes throughout Seasons 2 and 3. She is also shown to be an accomplished author and inventor. Two of her many inventions are the Imperceptor Vest (allows faster-than-humanly-detectable movement) and Cavorite (a fictitious metal with anti-gravity effects, as described in the real H.G. Wells story \"The First Men in the Moon\") - both of which are depicted in \"Time Will Tell\". Another invention displayed in the show is a grappler gun, shown in episodes \"For the Team\", \"Buried\" and \"The 40th Floor\"; and a time machine as seen in \"Where and When\", which allows the transference of consciousness to the minds of targeted individuals at a specific date and time. It is implied the character has a fluency in languages as she depicts a fluent grasp of French and a recognition of Demotic Egyptian upon hearing it spoken per \"Buried\". In the same episode, Wells says she \"considers the study of dead languages to be a hobby\".\n\nIn the episode \"Instinct\", Helena is shown to be employed as a forensic scientist for a police station in Wisconsin.\n\nHelena had three professional relationships from her days at Warehouse 12, with her partner Agent Wolcott, fellow-agent McShane, and her teacher Caturanga – as depicted in \"3...2...1...\" and \"Stand\". Her professional relationships from her dealings at the current Warehouse are depicted throughout Seasons 2, 3, and 4 and are with Artie Nielsen who serves mostly as her chief detractor until the Season 4 premiere, Claudia Donovan who serves as a mentee, Pete Lattimer a fellow-agent with whom she has some difficulties, and Myka Bering who is her fellow-agent, friend, and a romantic interest of sorts.\n\nWhile never explicitly shown or stated on the show itself, Joanne Kelly addressed the \"Warehouse 13\" panel discussion's audience at the 2012 San Diego Comic-Con to assert \"Myka will always love H.G.\", and reiterated the romantic attraction between her character and Jaime Murray's in a later interview that same day by saying of the characters \"we're in love\". In the same interview she clarifies her statement by making the sexual undertones of their love for each other definitive.\n\nIn the season 4 episode, \"Instinct\", Helena is shown to be part of a new family. She lives with a man named Nate and Adelaide, his 8-year-old daughter - to whom Helena has taught the arts of deductive reasoning as well as Kenpo. Helena indicates this new family life is her way of trying to fit into the world again, to find normalcy, away from the Warehouse and the world of the artifacts.\n\nThe season 2 episode \"Time Will Tell\" and season 3 episode \"Emily Lake\" establish the birth-year, birthplace, and later residence of Helena G. Wells to be the same as her real-world counterpart H.G. Wells who was born in 1866 in England.\n\nIt is unclear how much of the biographical information available on the historical H.G. Wells would apply to Helena due to her claim that her brother, Charles, is the person history remembers by her name.\n\nSeason 2 (2010)\n\nSeason 3 (2011)\n\nSeason 4 (2012-2013)\n\nJaime Murray's portrayal of Helena G. Wells received critical praise. Her portrayal is described as \"saucy\", \"superb\", as able to \"anchor a series\", \"endlessly fascinating\", and her absence as the villain in the Season 3 Christmas episode \"The Greatest Gift\" was bemoaned with the lamentation \"she would have done it better\". Jaime Murray was nominated for a 2012 Portal Award for her portrayal of Helena G. Wells on \"Warehouse 13\".\n"}
{"id": "55075194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55075194", "title": "Human response to disasters", "text": "Human response to disasters\n\nHuman response to disasters has been recorded throughout human history. In ancient times disasters were often perceived as a result of a deity, divine being, or spiritual creature showing their displeasure over human behavior. This later changed as humans began to see disasters as natural events that caused physical destruction and social chaos to individuals, communities, and societies as opposed to responses to human actions.\n\nThe term \"disaster myth\" has been created to describe the belief that people will behave in an irrational, uncontrolled, and even extreme manner outside of normal and accepted social standards despite evidence that proponents state prove otherwise. Proponents of the term further state that people will only act irrationally in the direst of circumstances when terrible danger is imminent and no avenue of escape appears available. They argue that these disaster myths cause a negative impact when they cause people, officials, and disaster-relief organizations to make detrimental or incorrect disaster planning and response decisions.\n\nOne commonly held disaster myth is that people develop an insurmountable, illogical fear in the face of a disaster. In turn, this fear becomes infectious, spreads to others, and causes people to flee without thinking and in a chaotic manner that could hurt those around them.\n\nIn fact, just the opposite can be expected in most cases. Even when experiencing the increased stress from an earthquake, since they arrive unannounced and it is not known when the aftershocks will end, people continue to act rationally. Not only do few people panic, most are unwilling to participate in an organized evacuation. Those who live in the disaster area tend to stay in place. The only ones who usually flee are the visitors, tourists, and transients. Disasters also draw people to the area. Some want to help while others just want to see the destruction.\n\nThe general public and organizations involved in emergency planning, management, and response all tend to accept this disaster myth as reality. Panicking can cause harm to others if people flee without thought. Staying put can be even worse since the people are not getting away from the disaster’s damage and destruction. When necessary, people should evacuate in an orderly manner to avoid the disaster. It also provides an opportunity to help others evacuate who may need assistance. The myth of panic can cause officials to be cautious when issuing public bulletins. By not wanting to instigate or amplify the believed panic, officials may wait too long to provide the information on which the populace should act. To avoid contributing to or increasing the level of this mythical panic, officials have also chosen to not share information about preparations for some types of disasters (e.g. chemical and biological attacks).\n\nThe antithesis of the panic myth was seen with Orson Welles’ The War of the Worlds radio broadcast in 1938, the 1942 Cocoanut Grove nightclub fire, and as Hurricane Carla approached the Gulf Coast areas of Texas and Louisiana in 1961. Rational behavior also dominated after earthquakes in Europe, North and South America, and Asia. Despite many reports of widespread panic, evidence later proved otherwise. The myth of panic affecting the official warnings of authorities has been seen in Mexico when the Rio Grande River flooded, in Italy during the flooding of the city of Florence, and after a volcanic eruption in Japan. In the instances when authorities chose to send the military instead of humanitarian organizations in response to Hurricane Katrina, it was in some part to help manage and control the perceived panic among the population.\n\nMany people believe those who experience a disaster firsthand experience emotional trauma that has both immediate and lasting effects. It is thought the initial devastation of the disaster leaves people too fragile and in shock. As such, they are unable to cope with their situation or participate in recovery efforts. They are consequently dependent on assistance from outside relief agencies.\n\nOnly in a small minority of cases does this myth turn out to be true. And many times, the experienced shock is short-lived. What in fact happens in most cases is people react immediately to the disaster and its effects. The disaster can also be a jolt of energy which drives people to respond to the emergency. Those who went through the disaster are the first engaged in relief and rescue efforts before any outside agency. They come together along familiar lines such as family and friends and then move as needed to a larger scale involving groups with which they associate (e.g. churches). If the familiar cannot be contacted or they are unable to respond, only then do most people look toward the faceless law enforcement, welfare, and relief organizations for assistance. People will also seek help from outside the familiar when special equipment or medical skills are required.\n\nThe myth of widespread shock leads outside relief organizations to plan their efforts as if they are the only ones who will be providing assistance. This may create a disconnected rather than complementary relationship between them and the local agencies. Additionally, the feeling on the part of the survivors that they do not need to rely on outsiders coupled with the relief organizations believing they are saviors creates a wall between the two which in turn inhibits communication, coordination, and effective relief and recovery efforts.\n\nPeople’s reliance on self and the well-known was seen in a variety of disaster types such as the 1953 tornado in Flint-Beecher, Michigan, the 1955 flood of Marysville and Yuba City, California, Hurricane Audrey in 1957, Hurricane Carla in 1961, Hurricane Betsy in 1965, and the 1971 earthquake in San Fernando, California. Both in Mexico City in 1985 and in Turkey in 1999, thousands of local residents banded together to search for fellow victims in the earthquake wreckage. Neighbors performed more than half of the rescue activities after the Great Hanshin-Awaji earthquake hit Kobe City, Japan in 1995.\n\nPeople believe the population impacted by a disaster are unable to do anything about their situation so are standing by just waiting for the saviors from afar to swoop in with the solution to all of their suffering. Not only that, relief organizations often think the aid must be provided immediately. This myth is especially pervasive when the disaster strikes a third-world country and it is a “superior” western country coming to the rescue.\n\nWhile relief organizations with emergency managers, medical teams, and the like do offer assistance after a disaster, most people are actually saved by other survivors and local authorities, agencies, and organizations.\n\nBecause of this myth, more supplies are often sent than the disaster area typically needs. In addition to excess quantity, much of the supplies end up being of little to no use. Relief organizations often do not wait for an assessment of the disaster area and an identification of needs which can be provided by local officials or performed by themselves. As a consequence, money is often wasted on sending unneeded teams of experts or supplies when local authorities and victims would benefit more if that same money was allocated towards providing resources that filled gaps and complemented their efforts. Donors compound the issue by donating used clothing, household items, and the like. With too many supplies on-hand or in possession of supplies they cannot use, local officials are forced to waste manpower and resources on disposing of them. Instead of providing unwanted and unrequested goods, organizations and donors should send money which can be more easily applied to fulfilling local needs.\n\nAn example of this myth’s impact was seen following the 1993 Hokkaidō earthquake as authorities were forced to spend 1.2 million in U.S. dollars on the removal of unnecessary relief supplies.\n\nOutside rescue, relief, and recovery agencies almost always miscalculate the amount of available resources for basic needs that are available locally in the aftermath of a disaster. They believe there are not enough materiel, supplies, and personnel for the initial response.\n\nIn fact, there are usually enough supplies to last several weeks. Enough food can normally be found in stores, warehouses, and people’s homes. Clothing is rarely needed. Medical supplies reside in hospitals, warehouses, or nearby communities. Hospitals as well as police and fire departments often transition to 24-hour operations. And no evidence is available that proves the unfound belief that key personnel will leave their posts to go attend to their families and friends.\n\nRelief agencies tend to believe they must act immediately rather than assess the situation first. As a result, they often provide supplies when there is already enough on-site for the immediate future.\n\nThe prevalence of looting in the wake of disasters is another common myth. It is thought that disasters provide cover for criminal activity. In this scenario, people take advantage of law enforcement and other agencies responsible for maintaining the peace, safety, and security being occupied with disaster response and relief efforts. People believe criminals will use the disaster as an opportunity to loot due to a prevalence of evacuated, abandoned, and unguarded homes and stores.\n\nWhile looting can occur, they are always isolated incidents. And much reported looting is either entirely false or, at worst, desperate survivors scavenging for necessities.\n\nBut because people believe looting happens, they frequently refuse to leave despite the disaster’s destruction and damage in order to protect their homes and property. When no looting occurs, people tend to believe it is because enough security was in place to prevent it rather than looters did not exist in the first place. Also, officials who believe in this myth end up assigning personnel to a protection role rather than to a much more critical rescue, relief, or logistics support function.\n\nThe lack of connection between disasters and looting was seen in the rates for theft and burglaries actually falling after Hurricane Betsy in 1965. This myth’s impact was also seen outside the United States as evidenced by many Guatemalans staying after the 1976 earthquake out of fear of having their animals, homes, and possessions stolen.\n\nPeople tend to believe that survivors are extremely negative after a disaster and need to assurance that the outside world cares and the future is bright for themselves and their community.\n\nIn fact, people are most often optimistic and have very high morale in a disaster’s aftermath. They frequently subordinate any personal feelings of loss and suffering in order to apply themselves to providing food, shelter, and other services to those in need. Their motivation to help one another boosts the sense of community and togetherness.\n\nBecause of the myth, dignitaries and officials feel the need to come to the disaster area to reassure the survivors. They often make promises of aid that either are not kept or do not happen in a timely manner. This can cause survivors to resent outsiders. This resentment in turn can prevent the survivors from asking for needed skills and resources that the outsiders can in fact provide.\n\nWhen a disaster results in deaths, especially in large quantities, people often believe they are at considerable risk of catching a disease from them. They also believe disease epidemics develop in the wake of disasters.\n\nThe fact that they died from the disaster does not make them a risk for spreading diseases. If a body does carry a communicable disease, the person already had it when he or she was alive. The fact that the body is now stationary and will remain in one place makes it less of a risk than prior to death. And an epidemic would happen only if either of two circumstances exist: 1) the disaster brings disease with it for which the people are not immune or 2) the disaster’s effects lead to malnutrition, the malnutrition increases susceptibility to disease, and finally, a large number of people contract the disease.\n\nThe belief in the myth can result in the hurried disposal of the bodies without proper identification, burial, or involvement by the next of kin. This can add to the suffering of survivors because they were not allowed to properly care for their loved ones. In addition to the personal toll, needlessly disposing of dead bodies can divert personnel and supplies from other areas where at that time they are needed more (e.g. involved in actions that benefit those still living). Fear or rumor of an epidemic can also cause relief organizations to provide medicines, resources, and other aid for a problem that does not exist.\n\nThis myth has been repeated many times such as in the 1972 earthquake in Managua, Nicaragua, Hurricane Mitch in 1998, the 1999 earthquake in Turkey, and the 2000 flooding in Mozambique. Additionally, rumors of hepatitis, measles, dysentery, and typhus that were later proven to be false followed the 1976 earthquake in Guatemala.\n\nPeople who have experienced a disaster often believe the dramatic accounts of their own suffering. It allows them to pass off their actions as atypical and heroic. In the process of telling others about their involvement, the mythic component of their story is spread along with the reality.\n\nDisaster survivors tend to worry about looting. Their increased anxiety can cause them to spread reports whether they definitely know of any or not. While most people who are asked admit to not having personally witnessed or experienced looting, many claim of being aware of it elsewhere. The belief in looting can make people jump to the conclusion that looting was the cause of items going missing before considering the disaster may have moved, buried, or destroyed them.\n\nGovernment agencies, civilian organizations, and first responders all believe to some extent in disaster myths. When this happens, the myths in turn are often included in their planning and response to disasters, victims, and survivors. And practices based even partially on disaster myths are not only likely to result in inappropriate or inefficient relief and response actions, they can also help to perpetuate the myths thereby affecting people and property in the next disaster.\n\nAn example of how organizations can perpetuate disaster myths takes place in the days following a disaster and up until official numbers are compiled. During this time, officials from emergency, relief, rescue, and welfare organizations can overestimate the loss of life and destruction of property. This sheds a more positive light on their organizations since they can point to effective emergency procedures and local heroism as the reason their figures turned out to be higher than the actual numbers. If their calculations end up being lower than the official figures, they might be blamed for incompetence and inefficiency.\n\nAlthough the inability to cope by a disaster-site’s community and people is a myth, it continues to be believed. One reason is the justification relief agencies give while promoting the assistance they provide. They feel they are needed because they believe facilities such as hospitals, police and fire departments, and other local first responders do not have the capacity to meet the sheer demand from a disaster. And if their efforts do not go as planned, they often point to survivors’ irrationality rather than reassess the assumptions on which they developed their relief plans.\n\nLocal, regional, and national officials make up a primary source of information for the media. In the self-imposed small window the media has to get out the latest details of the disaster, fact-checking sometimes suffers and they rely solely on the officials' accuracy. Consequently, officials substantially influence the media's portrayal and what viewers, listeners, and readers see. An example of this is seen in officials highlighting the positives within their own organization's efforts while downplaying the information from and activities by unofficial groups and sources.\n\nWhen asked by the media, law enforcement officials frequently say they are taking sufficient action to prevent looting even if they have taken no action on the issue. If the norm happens and little to no looting occurs, they may be credited for the absence of crime. But if the exception to the rule happens, they do not want to be blamed for not protecting against the looting. Whether it is true or not, people believe local law enforcement is out keeping the area secure from looters and the myth continues to propagate.\n\nMany myths are perpetuated by the mass media to include newspapers, television, radio, and internet news. This is largely due to the way they portray disasters. In fact, most people base their opinions and beliefs regarding disasters and survivor behavior on what they see in the media. The media strives to keep their viewers’ and readers’ attention for as long as possible. Drama and destruction is interesting and compelling; most of everything else is secondary. For the most part, the media, regardless of country, takes a fairly standard approach to disaster coverage and reporting. Immediately after the disaster, they rely on statistics of destruction and damage followed by stories of victims and those providing the rescue and relief. The media repeatedly moves away from discussing the disaster as a whole to focusing on individual parts and the drama involved in them. As a result of its manner in covering disasters, the media may capture only pieces instead of the entire event while emphasizing the unusually heroic or unusually tragic incidents.\n\nA main focus of media coverage centers on emergency management organizations performing rescue and relief actions in the disaster area. The media frequently portrays international relief teams as angels saving the victims from the disaster's destruction while simultaneously implying the local officials are negligent, inept, or corrupt. Within this backdrop, the portrayal of a breakdown in society and social behavior is more likely to appear in coverage of disasters occurring outside the United States. An example of this type of portrayal that helps perpetuate disaster myths involves the frequent reports of people panicking in both small and large numbers to the point of fleeing when faced by an oncoming disaster such as a hurricane.\n\nAdditionally, when the international media noticed few stories of looting coming out of Japan following the Great East Japan Disaster in 2011, they generally remarked on how well the Japanese people behave. By believing in this myth, they assumed the Japanese showed more behavioral control than other societies rather than understanding it rarely happens in association with any disaster.\n\n"}
{"id": "241513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241513", "title": "Incitatus", "text": "Incitatus\n\nIncitatus () was the favored horse of Roman emperor Caligula (reigned 37–41 AD). According to legend, Caligula planned to make him a consul.\n\nHis name is a Latin adjective meaning \"swift\" or \"at full gallop\".\n\nAccording to Suetonius, in the \"Lives of the Twelve Caesars\" (121 AD), Caligula planned to make Incitatus a consul, and that the horse would \"invite\" dignitaries to dine with him in a house outfitted with servants there to entertain such events. He also wrote that he had a stable of marble, with an ivory manger, purple blankets, and a collar of precious stones. \n\nCassius Dio (155-235 AD) indicated that the horse was attended to by servants and was fed oats mixed with gold flake, and that Caligula made the horse a priest.\n\nThe accuracy of the received history is generally questioned. Historians such as Anthony A. Barrett suggest that later Roman chroniclers such as Suetonius and Dio Cassius were influenced by the political situation of their own times, when it may have been useful to the current emperors to discredit the later Julio-Claudian emperors. Also, the lurid nature of the story added spice to their narratives, winning them additional readers.\n\nOne suggestion is that the treatment of Incitatus by Caligula was an elaborate prank, intended to ridicule and provoke the senate, rather than a sign of insanity, or perhaps a form of satire, with the implication that a horse could perform a senator's duties.\n\nBarrett notes that \"Many stories were spread about Incitatus, originating most likely from Caligula's own humorous quips.\" \"Possibly out of perverted sense of humor Caligula would pour libations to Incitatus' \"salus\" [health and well-being], and claimed that he intended to co-opt him as his priest.\"\n\nAncient sources are clear that the horse was never actually made a consul.\n\n"}
{"id": "40301861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40301861", "title": "Karen of the Andamans", "text": "Karen of the Andamans\n\nThe Karen of the Andamans are Karen people who live in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.\n\nThe Karen were encouraged to settle in the Andaman islands in 1924 by Dr Marshall, the principal of the Karen Baptist Theological Seminary, following a visit to his cousin, who was the commissioner there. In 1925, the first thirteen families arrived, led by a priest, Reverend Luygi. In 1926, another fifty families arrived and the first Karen village, Webi, was founded on the Middle Andaman Island.\n\nIn 2004, the total population of Karen in the Andamans was about 2000 people, living in eight villages in the Mayabunder tehsil of the North and Middle Andaman district: Borang, Chipon, Deopur, Lataw, Karmatang 9 and 10, Lucknow (Burmadera) and Webi.\n\nA government declaration was made on 12 December 2005, reserving some government jobs and places in higher education for the Karen as one of the Other Backward Classes in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.\n\nThe Karen respect the natural forest in a spiritual way and so avoid defiling it by spitting or urinating. Their harvesting of its resources for their community is sensitive to the need for sustainability and so they avoid killing female animals in their hunting. They use a variety of forest plants for construction, food and medicine. For example, they make canoes from the trunks of mulberry trees (\"artocarpus chaplasha\" Roxb.) and use a paste of the sweet flag \"laniti\" with other aromatic plants as a poultice for colds and headaches.\n"}
{"id": "5595619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5595619", "title": "Language Council", "text": "Language Council\n\nA language council, also known as a language regulator or a language academy, is an organisation that regulates a language. Some councils with independent association to any country where the language is dominant exist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14497981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14497981", "title": "List of Hazara tribes", "text": "List of Hazara tribes\n\nThe Hazara people are an ethnic group who mainly inhabit and originate from the Hazaristan region of Afghanistan; however, there are significant populations of Hazaras in Pakistan, notably around Quetta where a large population has been established since the 18th century. Furthermore, there are many Afghan refugees fleeing the conflict in Afghanistan who have in recent years settled in Iran and further bolstered the Hazara community in Pakistan.\n\nSome sources list eight overarching Hazara tribes, of which five the Daikundi, Daizangi, Polada, Jaghori, and Uruzgani, are referred to as \"Sad-i Qabar\" (\"original tribes\"). In addition to these five are the Dahla, Dai Khitai, Dai Chopan, Turkmani and Sheikh Ali.\n\nThe following is a partial list of the different Hazara tribes in Afghanistan and Pakistan:\n\n\nmaska\n"}
{"id": "35298184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35298184", "title": "List of endangered languages in the United States", "text": "List of endangered languages in the United States\n\nAn endangered language is a language that it is at risk of falling out of use, generally because it has few surviving speakers. If it loses all of its native speakers, it becomes an extinct language. UNESCO defines four levels of language endangerment between \"safe\" (not endangered) and \"extinct\":\n"}
{"id": "2069503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069503", "title": "List of shape-note tunebooks", "text": "List of shape-note tunebooks\n\nShape notes are a system of music notation designed to facilitate choral singing. Shape notes of various kinds have been used for over two centuries in a variety of sacred choral music traditions practiced primarily in the Southern region of the United States.\n\n\"Shape-note singers used tune books rather than hymnals. Hymnals were pocket-size books with texts only. Tune books were large oblong-shaped books with hard covers (nine inches by six inches was a typical size), often running to over four hundred pages. They included both music and text and were introduced by an extended essay on the rudiments of singing. Each song was known by the name given to its tune rather than by a title drawn from the text.\"\n\nThe following is a partial list of the shape note tunebooks published over the last two centuries. The list is divided according to the two main systems of shape notes—four-shape vs. seven-shape—and within these two categories is sorted chronologically.\n\nFor full information on shape-note tunebooks, including a list of public-domain tunebooks available online, see Shape note.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "475252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=475252", "title": "Marks of distinction", "text": "Marks of distinction\n\nA mark of distinction, in heraldry, is a charge showing that the bearer of a shield is not (as defined by the rules or laws of heraldry in most, though not all, countries and situations) descended by blood from the original bearer. The \"mark of distinction\" (which is so called as it is supposed to \"make distinct\" that the bearer is not one of the possible legitimate heirs or heiresses) usually refers to a context of illegitimacy, the illegitimate offspring being regarded as a \"stranger in blood\" to his natural father. The mark of distinction may also be applied upon the adoption of a surname and arms of a family from whom the bearer is not descended.\n\n"}
{"id": "1068884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1068884", "title": "Mishima: A Life in Four Chapters", "text": "Mishima: A Life in Four Chapters\n\nMishima: A Life in Four Chapters is a 1985 American biographical drama film co-written and directed by Paul Schrader. The film is based on the life and work of Japanese writer Yukio Mishima (portrayed by Ken Ogata), interweaving episodes from his life with dramatizations of segments from his books \"The Temple of the Golden Pavilion\", \"Kyoko's House\", and \"Runaway Horses\". Francis Ford Coppola and George Lucas were executive producers of the film.\n\nThe film sets in on November 25, 1970, the last day in Mishima's life. He is shown finishing a manuscript. Then, he puts on a uniform he designed for himself and meets with four of his most loyal followers from his private army.\n\nIn flashbacks highlighting episodes from his past life, the viewer sees Mishima's progression from a sickly young boy to one of Japan's most acclaimed writers of the post-war era (who keeps himself in perfect physical shape, owed to a narcissistic body cult). His loathing for the materialism of modern Japan has him turn towards an extremist traditionalism. He sets up his own private army and proclaims the reinstating of the emperor as head of state.\n\nThe biographical sections are interwoven with short dramatizations of three of Mishima's novels: In \"The Temple of the Golden Pavilion\", a stuttering aspirant sets fire to the famous Zen Buddhist temple because he feels inferior at the sight of its beauty. \"Kyoko's House\" depicts the sadomasochistic (and ultimately fatal) relationship between a middle-aged woman and her young lover, who is in her financial debt. In \"Runaway Horses\", a group of young fanatic nationalists fails to overthrow the government, with its leader subsequently committing suicide. Dramatizations, frame story, and flashbacks are segmented into the four chapters of the film's title, named \"Beauty\", \"Art\", \"Action\", and \"Harmony of Pen and Sword\".\n\nThe film culminates in Mishima and his followers taking hostage a General of the Japan Self-Defense Forces. He addresses the garrison's soldiers, asking them to join him in his struggle to reinstate the Emperor as the nation's sovereign. His speech is largely ignored and ridiculed. Mishima then returns to the General's office and commits seppuku.\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough \"Mishima\" only visualizes three of the writer's novels by name, the film also uses segments from his autobiographical novel \"Confessions of a Mask\". At least two scenes, one showing the young Mishima being aroused by a painting of the Christian martyr Sebastian, and another where a young Mishima purposefully exaggerates his illness at a military draft health checkup, appear in this book. \n\nThe use of one further Mishima novel, \"Forbidden Colors\", which describes the marriage of a homosexual man to a woman, was denied by Mishima's widow. As Schrader wanted to visualize a book illustrating Mishima's narcissism and sexual ambiguity, he chose the novel \"Kyoko's House\" (which he had translated for him exclusively) instead. \"Kyoko's House\" contains four equally ranking storylines, featuring four different protagonists, but Schrader picked out only the one which he considered relevant.\n\n\"Mishima\" used various colour palettes to differentiate between frame story, flashbacks and scenes from Mishima's novels: the scenes set in 1970 were shot in naturalistic colours, the flashbacks in black-and-white, the \"Temple of the Golden Pavilion\"-episode is dominated by golden and green, \"Kyoko's House\" by pink and grey, and \"Runaway Horses\" by orange and black.\n\nRoy Scheider was the narrator in the original movie version and on the early VHS release. On the 2001 DVD release, Scheider's voice-over was substituted with a narration by an uncredited actor. The 2008 DVD re-release contains both Scheider's and the alternate narration (plus Ken Ogata's for the Japanese version). In a commentary on Amazon.com, Schrader explained this was a manufacturing error in 2001 and that the voice belonged to the photographer Paul Jasmin.\n\nThe film closes with Mishima's suicide (which actually took longer than the seppuku ritual dictates). His confidant Morita, unable to behead Mishima, also failed in killing himself according to the ritual. A third group member beheaded both, then the conspirators surrendered without resistance. Roger Ebert approved of Schrader's decision not to show the suicide in bloody detail, which he thought would have destroyed the film's mood.\n\nThe film was withdrawn from the Tokyo International Film Festival and never officially released in Japan, mostly due to boycott exercised by Mishima's widow and threats by far right wing groups opposed to Mishima's portrayal as a homosexual. The title role was originally intended for Ken Takakura, who indeed proposed this to Paul Schrader, but had to withdraw due to the pressure from the same groups. In an interview with Kevin Jackson, Schrader commented on the fact that his film has still not been shown in Japan: \"[Mishima] is too much of a scandal. […] When Mishima died people said, 'Give us fifteen years and we'll tell you what we think about him,' but it's been more than fifteen years now and they still don't know what to say. Mishima has become a non-subject.\"\n\nSchrader considers \"Mishima\" the best film he has directed. \"It's the one I'd stand by – as a screenwriter it's \"Taxi Driver\", but as a director it's \"Mishima\".\"\n\nThe musical score for \"Mishima\" was composed by Philip Glass, with parts performed by the Kronos quartet. A soundtrack album was released on vinyl record and Audio CD in 1985 by Nonesuch Records.\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, \"Mishima\" has an 89% approval rating and an average rating of 7.5/10 based on 27 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Paul Schrader's directorial masterpiece is a classy and imaginative portrait enriched by a stunning score and impressive cinematography.\" In his 2013 movie guide, Leonard Maltin called the film an \"ambitious, highly stylized drama\", later adding that it is \"long, difficult, not always successful, but fascinating.\" In 2007, Roger Ebert added the film to his \"Great Movies\" list, calling the film \"a triumph of concise writing and construction. The unconventional structure of the film […] unfolds with perfect clarity, the logic revealing itself.\"\n\nChris Peachment of \"Time Out Film Guide\" said, \"Schrader may have finally achieved the violent transfiguration that he seeks along with his protagonists; the film has all the ritual sharpness and beauty of that final sword. […] There is nothing quite like it.\"\n\nThe film premiered at the 1985 Cannes Film Festival on May 15, 1985 where it won the award for \"Best Artistic Contribution\" by cinematographer John Bailey, production designer Eiko Ishioka and music composer Philip Glass.\n\n\"Mishima\" has been released three times on DVD in the US, two of which by The Criterion Collection who also produced its Blu Ray release.\n\nA French DVD was released by Wild Side Video in 2010 titled \"Mishima – une vie en quatre chapitres\" in Japanese, English and French language with French subtitles.\n\nA Spanish Blu-ray Disc was released in 2010 titled \"Mishima – Una Vida en Cuatro Capítulos\". It features Scheider's narration with optional Spanish and Catalan, but no English, subtitles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24824126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24824126", "title": "Modern Chinese Literature and Culture", "text": "Modern Chinese Literature and Culture\n\nModern Chinese Literature and Culture, formerly \"Modern Chinese Literature\" (1984–1998), is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the culture of modern and contemporary China, with China understood not in the narrow, political sense (e.g., People's Republic of China), but in the sense of Greater China (e.g., Hong Kong, Taiwan, PRC, and the Chinese diaspora). The journal publishes on literature of all genres, film and television, popular culture, performance and visual art, print and material culture, etc. The editor-in-chief is Kirk A. Denton (Ohio State University). The journal is abstracted and indexed in the Arts and Humanities Citation Index. Beginning in fall 2003, book reviews no longer appear in the print journal; instead, they are published on the website of the MCLC Resource Center, a website on modern China cultural studies and affiliated with the journal.\n\nThe journal publishes occasional special issues. The online publication series publishes translations, interviews, bibliographies, and articles with a strong multimedia component.\n\n"}
{"id": "590941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590941", "title": "Nighty Night", "text": "Nighty Night\n\nNighty Night is a BBC black comedy television sitcom written by and starring Julia Davis. It was first broadcast on 6 January 2004 on BBC Three before moving to BBC2.\n\nNotorious for its dark humour, the show follows narcissistic sociopath Jill Tyrell (Julia Davis), alongside her moronic, asthmatic assistant Linda (Ruth Jones), as Jill learns that her husband Terry (Kevin Eldon) has cancer. She uses this fact to manipulate new neighbour Cathy Cole (Rebecca Front), a wheelchair user with multiple sclerosis, whose husband is Don Cole (Angus Deayton), a womanising doctor and the man with whom Jill becomes increasingly obsessed.\n\nThe theme tune used in the beginning of both series and during the closing credits for the first is an excerpt from the spaghetti western \"My Name Is Nobody\", composed by the Italian film composer Ennio Morricone.\n\n\nIn the first scene of the series, Jill sits in a doctor's office with her husband Terry having just been told the prognosis of a medical examination. Jill, teary-eyed, exclaims \"I mean why, why \"me\"?” Her husband turns to her comfortingly, and says, \"Jill, let's keep this in perspective. It's me that's got the cancer.\"\n\nImmediately after her husband begins cancer treatment, Jill goes to a dating agency to find another man, seemingly content in the knowledge that her husband will shortly die.\n\nJill uses her status as widow (despite Terry being still alive) to gain sympathy from those who work in Beauty by Jill, her suburban beauty salon which turns most clients suicidal after their treatment, and from the quiet couple who live across the street from her. Don is a family doctor and his wife Cath has multiple sclerosis and often uses a wheelchair. Using the pretence of caring for Cath, Jill gradually moves in with them, flirting with their son David and trying to break up their marriage and sleep with Don, all the while playing the sympathy card with Cath.\n\nJill occasionally visits her husband in hospital, where he is responding well to cancer treatment, in order to put her own spin on the good news from the doctors to leave Terry with the impression that he is really dying. When Jill finds out Terry is recovering, she admits him to a hospice and tells all her friends that he has died, and stages a twisted funeral where she gets all the attention.\n\nJill dresses as Don's former mistress Sandra to try to grab his attention, and prepares a meal for him while Cath is out. Don does not know anything about this and is pleasantly surprised. Later, Jill bends down, pretends to be incapable of moving and asks for Don's help. As Don is pulling her up from the ground, Cath enters and gets the wrong impression, to Don's irritation.\n\nRunning out of excuses for the ever-curious Terry, Jill is forced to take him home. She imprisons him in a spare room and begins starving and brutalising him, but explains she is doing it only to aid his recovery. When she runs into a simpleton, Glen, whom she met previously through the Lasso the Moon Dating Agency (he had described his personality as \"Scottish\"), she discovers that the deaths of his parents have left him extremely wealthy. As she pretends to fall in love with him, she coyly asks \"Is either of your two houses nearby?\"\n\nCath and Don later put forward their plans to move to Hopperton, a Christian retreat with a high population of lesbians. When Jill hears of this she throws a farewell coffee morning for them, livening it up by performing a pole dance routine to Kylie Minogue, whilst the neighbours watch in horror. The Hopperton nuns are also present and are duly shocked by Jill's antics. Meanwhile, Don has become extremely drunk and Cath announces she has had enough and is going on her own; she departs, leaving Don dazed and confused. Jill leaves the party to check on Terry, only to find him preparing to escape house arrest. She ushers him back upstairs and straps him to his bed wearing an adult nappy. Across the road at the party, Linda sees Terry at the window and thinks it's his ghost urging her to confess to their affair. She rushes across to Jill and tries to fight her way up to his attic bedroom. Jill thinks she has been unmasked until Linda tells her the purpose of her visit is to reveal that she was the woman Terry had slept with.\n\nAfter the party Jill drags a tired Don to her place and realising she must be rid of Terry once and for all, runs upstairs and smothers him with a cushion. Don finds the bathroom, vomits and opens the bedroom door to find Jill lying seductively on the bed. Don, just wanting to lie down and too tired to be bothered, falls into Jill’s arms.\n\nThree weeks pass, and Jill has escaped the crime scene to live with Glen at his mansion. Under the pretence of being a Christian she forbids intercourse until their marriage, only to go downstairs one morning to find Glen has invited Gordon (Michael Fenton Stevens), the local vicar and friend of Jill, to arrange a wedding. The vicar explains Jill's neighbours had wondered where she had vanished to, and even suspected she had committed suicide given the strange smell coming from her house. Jill realises she is about to be found out now Gordon has discovered her, so confesses to murdering her husband to Glen (although she suggests it was a mercy killing). She puts poison in dishes of Angel Delight (a mousse-like dessert) and encourages Gordon to eat some. As he chokes on it she tells Glen that if he loves her he would agree to take the blame for Gordon's and Terry's deaths and persuades him to make a telephone confession to the police. This done, Jill suggests that they both commit suicide by eating the Angel Delight, and he gives in to her persuasion. When it is her turn to eat the Angel Delight, she declares, \"I'm not really hungry\". The poison takes effect and Glen drops to the floor.\n\nWith Glen having taken the blame for Gordon and Terry's deaths, Jill is free to pursue Don. With the bodies of Terry and Linda hidden in the house, the last scene of the series has her dialing Don's phone number and seductively declaring \"Hi Don, it's Jill...\"\n\nGlen has survived Jill's attempt to kill him, but having confessed to killing Terry and Gordon (who has survived in a vegetative state and is now in an iron lung) he is incarcerated in a secure unit for the criminally insane. Realising that she must inherit his money to fund her pursuit of Don she agrees to marry him and then begins a campaign to kill him. There is no mention of the apparent death of Linda at the end of series 1, as Linda is alive and well and living in a caravan with her boyfriend Denis.\n\nStill infatuated with Don, Jill steals the caravan (with Linda inside) and pursues him to Bude, Cornwall, where he and Cath are trying fix their marriage at a New-Age retreat called The Trees, which employs holistic and esoteric methods, run by non-recovering sex addict Jacques (played by Ralph Brown).\n\nOnce she has extracted their new address from Gordon's wife Sue, Jill sets off with Linda after accidentally pulling the plug on Gordon's life support. En route to The Trees they accidentally run over Floella Umbagabe, a therapist planning to work at the retreat. They store her body in their caravan and Jill assumes Floella's identity to gain access to the centre.\n\nConvincing them she is reformed, Jill discovers that Don is trying to recapture his youth via bleached hair, surfing, and a younger girlfriend, Natalie (Loui Batley) while Cath has developed an unrequited crush on their marriage therapist Jacques. In an attempt to get closer to Don, Jill encourages his girlfriend's vanity by plastic surgery to ensure a modelling career, whilst urging Cath to pursue her counsellor. When Cathy reveals she is pregnant with Don's baby and that he will be having a vasectomy, Jill realises her chances of securing him permanently are running out, so with Linda she tries to obtain a semen sample from Don prior to surgery. Ultimately unsuccessful, she tries to seduce Cath and Don's 12-year-old son Bruce, and when he does not respond she claims to his parents that he repeatedly raped her and to allay any doubts pretends she is pregnant by him.\n\nMeanwhile, Glen has tunnelled his way out of his cell and has tracked Jill to Cornwall; Floella Umbagabe has recovered and arrived at The Trees, effectively exposing Jill as a fraud.\n\nThe last episode is set 11 months after the events of the previous episode, after Cath has given birth to her baby Abigail. Don can no longer resist his attraction to Gordon's widow, Sue (and her chest) and tells her that he wants to move to Spain with her to start a new life. Jill overhears and assumes Don is talking about her, but armed with a gun, Glen finds Jill and threatens to kill her. Convincing him that she wants him and that she's pregnant with his baby, Jill once again deceives Glen into submission.\n\nAfter Jill steals Abigail and claims she has given birth, the arrival of Floella, Glen and Cath threatens to unravel her web of lies. She is chased to a cliff where Cath confronts her about her fake pregnancy and her repeated attempts to seduce Don. They begin to fight while Don and Sue have sex on the rocks below. Cath's wheelchair is hurled off the cliff, killing Sue just before Cath pushes Jill off the cliff. Her fall is broken by a trampoline, and then by Don. Up on the cliffs Cath is arrested and taken away by the police while Jill rides off in a speed boat with a vomit-stained and unresponsive Don, towing Glen behind them on an inflatable inner tube.\n\nThere has been speculation about \"Nighty Night\" returning for a third series or similar development. In an interview on \"Alan Carr's Chatty Man\", Julia also suggested the idea of working on a third series or developing the characters and themes of \"Nighty Night\" into a different development. It has also been suggested that Julia may return to this style of comedy after focusing on her later shows such as \"Hunderby\" and \"Bad Sugar\".\n\nIn Australia, this programme commenced airing on ABC TV each Wednesday at 9pm from 23 March 2005.\n\nThe first series won a Banff Award and Davis won a Royal Television Society Award for her performance and got a highly positive reception from TV critics.\n\n\"The Guardian\" called it \"an exquisitely vile comic creation\" and adding that \"\"The Office\" might have popularised the comedy of embarrassment, but \"Nighty Night\" has moved it on.\" \"The Times\" called it \"a blistering wall of superbly unredeemed cruelty that manages to trample over every social convention in a pair of cheap stilettos.\"\n\nIn June 2006 it was announced that \"Sex and the City\" creator Darren Star would write and be executive producer of a US version, which has been commissioned for a pilot script. Steve Coogan and Henry Normal, founders of the production company Baby Cow, were to be co-Executive-Producers.\n\n"}
{"id": "48784657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48784657", "title": "Partisan Ballad", "text": "Partisan Ballad\n\nPartisan Ballad is a painting by Belarusian artist Mai Dantsig showing a partisan woman breastfeeding a weary partisan man during World War II. Both are equipped with rifles and ammunition belts. Dantsig borrowed the Roman Charity theme, having seen the eponymous painting by Peter Paul Rubens in the Hermitage Museum. \"Partisan Ballad\" alludes to the German occupation of the Soviet Union on the Eastern Front of World War II when Belarusian SSR became the haven of Soviet partisans.\n\nThe \"Partisan Ballad\" was at one time removed from the exhibition in the Minsk Palace of Arts when the local Soviet exhibition committee viewed the painting as an \"incest\". Dantsig subsequently kept the painting in his workshop before exhibiting it again in the Central House of Artists in Moscow. In 2015, \"Partisan Ballad\" was exhibited in the Saatchi Gallery in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "203298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203298", "title": "Penile subincision", "text": "Penile subincision\n\nPenile subincision is a form of genital modification or mutilation consisting of a urethrotomy, in which the underside of the penis is incised and the urethra slit open lengthwise, from the urethral opening (meatus) toward the base. The slit can be of varying lengths.\n\nSubincision is traditionally performed around the world, notably in Australia, but also in Africa, South America and the Polynesian and Melanesian cultures of the Pacific, often as a coming of age ritual.\n\nDisadvantages include the risks inherent in the procedure itself, which is often self-performed, and increased susceptibility to sexually transmitted infections (STIs). The ability to impregnate (specifically, getting sperm into the vagina) may also be decreased.\n\nSubincisions can greatly affect urination and often require the subincised male to sit or squat while urinating. The scrotum can be pulled up against the open urethra to quasi-complete the tube and allow an approximation to normal urination, while a few subincised men carry a tube with which they can aim.\n\nSubincision (like circumcision) is well documented among the peoples of the central desert of Australia such as the Arrernte and Luritja. The Arrernte word for subincision is \"arilta\", and occurs as a rite of passage ritual for adolescent boys. It was given to the Arrernte by Mangar-kunjer-kunja, a lizard-man spirit being from the Dreamtime. A subincised penis is thought to resemble a vulva, and the bleeding is likened to menstruation. \nThis type of modification of the penis was also traditionally performed by the Lardil people of Mornington Island, Queensland. The young men who endured this custom were the only ones to learn a simple ceremonial language, Damin. In later ceremonies, repeated throughout adult life, the subincised penis would be used as a site for ritual bloodletting. According to Ken Hale, who studied Damin, no ritual initiations have been carried out in the Gulf of Carpentaria for half a century, and hence the language has also died out.\n\nAnother indigenous Australian term for the custom is \"mika\" or the \"terrible rite\".\n\nIndigenous cultures of the Amazon Basin also practise subincision, as do Samburu herdboys of Kenya, who are said to perform subincisions on themselves (or sometimes their peers) at age seven to ten. In Samoa, subincision of the foreskin, skin located along the tip of the penis, was ritually performed upon young men, as in Hawaii, where subincision of the foreskin is reported to have been performed at age six or seven.\n\n\nGeneral\nPolynesia\nMelanesia\nAustralia\nAfrica\n\n"}
{"id": "1393519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1393519", "title": "Performative writing", "text": "Performative writing\n\nPerformative writing is a form of post-modernist or avant-garde academic writing, often taking as its subject a work of visual art or performance art. It is heavily informed by critical theory, but arises ultimately from linguistic ideas around performative utterances. The term is often applied to a bricolage of other writing styles. It is claimed to be politically radical, because it thus 'defies' literary conventions and traditions.\n\nIt is often practiced by feminist writers. A notable current writer in performative writing is the performance art theorist Peggy Phelan. She describes the form as one which...\n\nSuch a writing form is claimed to be, in itself, a form of performance. It is said to more accurately reflect the fleeting and ephemeral nature of a performance, and the various mechanisms of memory and referentiality that happen during and after the performance.\n\nCritics of performative writing have described it, in practice, as: self-indulgent; insular; politically neutred due to its tiny elite audience and its neo-romantic individualism; obscurantist; often bearing only a loose relationship to the works of art it claims to be about; and dependent on the funding (of universities and public arts funding) of the very state that it claims to be against. Also that, when taught, it often paradoxically expects students to reveal personal truths and use experimental forms within a strict classroom regimen of grades, lesson attendance and exams. It can generally be seen to follow the pattern of much modernist writing, in that it seeks to create complex new literary approaches in order to seal off 'high art culture' from the attention of ordinary people and from a mass culture.\n\nThe term performative writing should not be confused with \"writing that is performed\", i.e.: plays, radio or poetry readings.\n\nPerformative writing is sometimes referred to by the alternative name of 'creative critical writing'—which is not to be confused with straightforward creative writing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14896810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14896810", "title": "Politicards", "text": "Politicards\n\nPoliticards are a deck of playing cards produced each election year in the United States with 54 caricatures depicting political candidates and prominent political figures. The first Politicards deck was produced in 1971 for the 1972 election by the artist Peter Green, the writer Lee Livingston, the businessman Mike Killeen and the designer Norman Friant. By 2016, about 200,000 packs of cards were being sold during each election cycle. Decks were said to have been used at the time by then New York Senator James Buckley and by the ladies of Mamie Eisenhower’s bridge club.\n\nDecks of \"Politicards\" have been produced for election years 1971, 1980, 1984 and 1996 onwards. \n\nThe 1980 and 1984 edition decks were produced by the Washington, D.C. lobbyist Victor Kamber, who purchased the Politicards name in 1979. In 1996, the name expired and was reclaimed by the original artist Peter Green, who has since produced decks for every election through to 2016. Green's 2016 edition was titled \"Politikids\" and depicted political figures as children.\n\n"}
{"id": "6070611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6070611", "title": "Radical chic", "text": "Radical chic\n\n\"Radical chic\" is a term coined by journalist Tom Wolfe in his 1970 essay \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\" to describe the adoption and promotion of radical political causes by celebrities, socialites, and high society. The concept has been described as \"an exercise in double-tracking one's public image: on the one hand, defining oneself through committed allegiance to a radical cause, but on the other, vitally, demonstrating this allegiance because it is the fashionable, \"au courant\" way to be seen in moneyed, name-conscious Society.\" Unlike dedicated activists, revolutionaries, or dissenters, those who engage in \"radical chic\" remain frivolous political agitators. They are ideologically invested in their cause of choice only so far as it advances their social standing.\n\n\"Terrorist chic\" is a modern expression with similar connotations. This derivative, however, de-emphasizes the class satire of Wolfe's original term, instead accentuating concerns over the semiotics of radicalism (such as the aestheticization of violence).\n\nIn languages such as American English, French and Italian the term has become widely used to indicate people identifying themselves as socialists or radical leftists while conducting upper-class lifestyles.\n\nThe phrase \"radical chic\" originated in a 1970 \"New York\" article by Tom Wolfe, titled \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\", which was later reprinted in his books \"Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers\" and \"The Purple Decades\". In the essay, Wolfe used the term to satirize composer Leonard Bernstein and his friends for their absurdity in hosting a fundraising party for the Black Panthers—an organization whose members, activities, and goals were clearly incongruous with those of Bernstein's elite circle. Wolfe's concept of radical chic was intended to lampoon individuals (particularly social elites like the jet set) who endorsed leftist radicalism merely to affect worldliness, assuage white guilt, or garner prestige, rather than to affirm genuine political convictions.\n\nThe concept of \"fashionable\" espousal of radical causes by members of wealthy society in this case had been argued against by Bernstein's wife, Felicia Montealegre, prior to the publication of \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\", a fact Wolfe details in it. The essay appeared in the June 8, 1970 issue of \"New York\", 20 weeks after the actual fund raiser at the Bernstein residence was held on January 14. The first report of the event appeared the following day in a piece by \"The New York Times\" style reporter Charlotte Curtis, who was in attendance. Curtis wrote in part: \"Leonard Bernstein and a Black Panther leader argued the merits of the Black Panther party's philosophy before nearly 90 guests last night in the Bernsteins' elegant Park Avenue duplex.\" According to Wolfe, the release of the story worldwide was followed by strong criticism of the event: \"The English, particularly, milked the story for all it was worth and seemed to derive one of the great cackles of the year from it.\"\n\nThe negative reaction prompted publication of an op-ed in the \"Times\" on January 16 entitled \"False Note on Black Panthers\" that was severely critical of the Black Panther Party and Bernstein:\n\nFelicia Montealegre wrote and personally delivered a response to this op-ed to the \"Times\" offices. In her response she wrote:\n\nTerrorist chic (also known as \"terror chic\" or \"militant chic\") is a more recent and specific variation of the term. It refers to the appropriation of symbols, objects, and aesthetics related to radical militants, usually in the context of pop culture or fashion. When such imagery is deployed subversively, the process exemplifies aestheticization of propaganda. Regardless, because terrorist chic derives its iconography from groups and individuals often associated with violent conflict or terrorism, the term carries a greater pejorative tone than \"radical chic.\"\n\nInstances of terrorist chic have variously been interpreted as morally irresponsible, earnestly counter-cultural, ironically hip, or benignly apolitical. According to Henry K. Miller of the \"New Statesman\", the most well-known example is the ubiquitous appearance of Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara in popular culture. Other cases that have been labeled terrorist chic include: the Prada-Meinhof fashion line (a pun on Prada and the Baader-Meinhof Gang) and the fashion of combining keffiyehs and military-style clothing such as camo prints and heavy boots, outside the Arab World.\n\nIn his 1996 \"Bangor Daily News\" article \"Libertarian chic hits country,\" Roland Nethaway compared libertarians to \"John Wayne on steroids,\" writing they were \"anti-government before anti-government was cool\". In a 2013 Reuters article, Nicholas Wapshott used the term to describe those who use radical statements to add a \"dangerous edge to their otherwise humdrum personas.\"\n\nLos Angeles Times journalist suggested that Alberto Korda's iconic March 1960 photograph of revolutionary Ernesto Che Guevara is possibly \"the most-reproduced photograph in the world,\" a ubiquitous countercultural symbol of rebellion and global insignia within popular culture.\n\nShortly after the October 17, 1997 burial with military honors in Santa Clara, Cuba of Guevara's disinterred and identified remains, found in the Bolivian jungle by forensic anthropologists, \"New York Times\" columnist Richard Bernstein argued that the third-world revolution that Che embodied was no longer even a \"drawing-room, radical-chic hope.\" Concurrent with his re-burial, three major Guevara biographies were published in 1997. Noting the sustained interest in Che, Bernstein suggested that \"the end of the cold war and the failure of the third-world revolution\" allowed for the \"scrutiny of Guevara, [as] a symbol of both the idealism and the moral blindness of the decade of protest\" to take place free in a context free \"of ideological partisanship and rancor.\"\n\nOn 1 April 2008 the documentary \"Chevolution\", on the mass dissemination of Korda's iconic photograph taken at a memorial service in Havana in March 1960 of revolutionary Ernesto Che Guevara entitled \"Guerillero Heroico\" by Trisha Ziff and Luis Lopez starring Antonio Banderas and Gael García Bernal, was launched. This documentary is a critical work about propaganda, \"communism and capitalism, idealism and opportunism, art and commerce\" from the 1960s to the first decade of the 21st century.\n\nOn 21 May 2008 Steven Soderbergh's long-anticipated and highly acclaimed film premiered at Cannes starring Benicio Del Toro. The film followed most other pop-culture trends by showing a glamorized and romanticized portrayal of Che as a 'heroic liberator'. Del Toro won the Best Actor Award, and the film received mostly positive reviews. \"Che\" was released on December 12, 2008 in New York City and Los Angeles to qualify for the year's Academy Awards.\n\nTed Balaker, editor-in-chief of Reason TV, an American libertarian website, wrote and produced \"Killer Chic\" in 2008, a libertarian, anti-Communist documentary, in which he deconstructed the use of images of Che Guevara and Mao Zedong in popular culture. In his blog entry on 11 December 2008, Reason journalist Nick Gillespie used the term \"killer chic\" in his review of Steven Soderbergh's film.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18687886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18687886", "title": "Rimau", "text": "Rimau\n\nRimau is a two-player abstract strategy board game from Malaysia. It is a hunt game, and specifically a tiger hunt game (or tiger game) since it uses an expanded Alquerque board. The one tiger is being hunted by 24 men. The tiger attempts to eat the men, and the men attempt to trap the tiger. An interesting feature in this game is that the tiger can capture a line of men in a single leap. There must be an odd number of men in the line, and they must be adjacent to one another. In most hunt games, the tiger, leopard, or fox is only able to capture one prey in a leap.\n\nRimau in Malay means \"tiger\". The men are called orang-orang. Orang-orang is the plural of orang which means \"man\".\n\nRimau is the single tiger version of the game Rimau-rimau which has two tigers. Both games have very similar rules.\n\nAs mentioned earlier, Rimau is specifically part of the tiger hunt game (or tiger game) family as it uses an expanded Alquerque board. This family includes games like Rimau-rimau, Bagha-Chall, and Main Tapal Empat. In contrast, Leopard games are also hunt games, but use a more triangular board and not an Alquerque-based board. Similarly, Fox games are also hunt games, but use more of a cross patterned board.\n\nThe men win if they block and immobilize the tiger's movements.\n\nThe tiger wins if they capture all the men, or capture enough men so that the men cannot effectively block and immobilize its movements. This usually happens when there are only 10 or 11 men left on the board.\n\nThe game uses an expanded Alquerque board. There are two mountains (called \"gunung\" in Malay) attached on two opposite sides of the Alquerque board. The mountains are triangular boards.\n\nThere is 1 black piece called a tiger, and 24 white pieces called men.\n\n1. In the beginning the tiger is placed at the vertex of one of the two mountains that connects to the Alquerque board. Nine men are initially placed on the nine intersection points of the central square of the Alquerque board. \n2. The tiger player moves first and removes any 3 men from the board. Then the tiger player may also pick up the tiger, and place it on any empty intersection point on the board, or the tiger player can simply leave the tiger where it is already. \n3. The man player moves next, and must drop his or her remaining 15 pieces on any vacant intersection point on the board one piece per turn before he or she can begin to move any of them. This will take 15 turns. Players alternate their turns throughout the game. The tigers can move and capture from the beginning.\n4. After the 15 men have been dropped, they can then move. Only one man may be moved per turn. The man can be moved (in any available direction) along a line to a vacant adjacent intersection point. \n5. Similarly, the tiger can move (in any available direction) along a line to a vacant adjacent intersection point in a turn. However, the tiger, alternatively, can capture. The men cannot capture. \n6. The tiger can capture an \"odd number of men (e.g. 1, 3, 5, or 7)\". If more than one man is captured (i.e. 3, 5, or 7), the men must be in a line. The tiger must be adjacent to the man or line of men, and leap over them onto a vacant intersection point immediately beyond. The leaped pieces are removed. The tiger must leap over them \"in a straight line\" that follows the pattern on the board. Moreover, when capturing a line of men, the men must be \"lined up right next to each other with no vacant points in between them\". Once a man or a line of men are leaped over and captured, the tiger can no longer capture further or move. Captures are not compulsory. \n7. If the men are reduced to 10 or 11 pieces, the men will usually resign as there is not enough of them to effectively immobilize the two tigers.\n\nLike all hunt games, Rimau is an asymmetric game in that the pieces controlled by one player are different from the pieces controlled by the other player. A tiger can capture whereas men can only simply block the tigers. Furthermore, the number of pieces is different for each player. The tiger player controls one tiger piece, and the man player controls the 24 man pieces. Lastly, the goals of each player are different. The goal of the tiger is to eliminate as many men as possible which would prevent the men from blocking its movements. However, the goal of the men is to block the movement of the tiger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2854130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2854130", "title": "Romanianization", "text": "Romanianization\n\nRomanianization (or Rumanianization or Rumanization) is the series of policies aimed toward ethnic assimilation implemented by the Romanian authorities during the 20th and 21st century. The most noteworthy policies were those aimed at the Hungarian minority in Romania as well as the Ukrainian minority in Bukovina and Bessarabia.\n\nAfter the end of World War I, in 1 December 1918, the Romanian National Council (representing the majoritary Romanian population) and - soon afterwards - the representatives of the German population had taken the decision of unifying the province with Romania. The decision was contested by the Hungarian minority. In 1920, the Treaty of Trianon established the Romanian border with the new Hungarian state. However, Transylvania had a large Hungarian minority, of 25.5% according to the 1920 census. A portion of them fled to Hungary after the union; however, most of them remained in Romania and in the 1930s their number increased to 26.7% of the whole Transylvanian population. The increase in the proportion of the Hungarian minority in Transylvania was induced by the immigration of the Hungarians from Hungary and by the significant improvement of living standards of the Hungarian minority in Romania comparative with the living standards of the interwar Hungary's population. While Romania included large national minorities, the 1923 Constitution declared the country to be a nation-state, following the French model which was popular in many European nations at that time.\n\nAfter the dissolution of Austria-Hungary, the post-war mass actions of the Romanians directed against primarily the Hungarian aristocracy and at times Jews. The takeover did not happen without the reduction of the cultural and economic life of the Hungarians. While in accordance with the Agricultural Act of 1921 a number of Hungarian estates and lands were confiscated, the land reform openly favored the Romanians, the national group which used to be the victim of the unjust land allocation systems practiced under the Hungarian Kingdom's administrations.\n\nAlthough Romania won the war, the Anti-Hungarian sentiments were not remitted. During the 1930s (in response to the Hungarian Revisionism) Anti-Revisionist demonstrations began in Romania, supported by Nationalist newspapers like the Universul. After a particularly violent protest in Cluj Foreign Minister Titulescu officially condemned the events in Bucharest newspapers. During the autumn in 1944, after the withdrawal of the Hungarian military forces and administration from Transylvania, Székelyland was engaged and pillaged by the Romanian Gendarmerie and volunteers. However, on 12 November 1944 the Soviet Red Army expulsed the returning Romanian authorities from Northern Transylvania with reference to the massacres committed by members of Iuliu Maniu's so-called Maniu Guard, and the Romanian authorities were not allowed to return until the government of Petru Groza was formed on 6 March 1945.(The Hungarian-Romanian conflicts in 1940 and 1944 are still controversial.)\n\nSince 1947 the Romanian authorities gradually eliminated the old Hungarian institutions, after the Treaty of Trianon borders had been restored. However Hungary was a Socialist country as well, after the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 Hungarians in Transylvania many times were accused of separatism and revisionism, the major part of Hungarian intellectual and spiritual leaders (among others Catholic Bishop Áron Márton) were arrested and convicted for years. On the other hand, during the Communist era the former civil organization possibilities of the interwar period were eliminated.\n\nAfter 1948, the industrialization of towns made the number of inhabitants in some urban areas to double or even triple, most of the newcomers being ethnic Romanians from the rural areas. The urbanization policy, natural phenomenon as the urbanization being required by the economic development and by the intention of transforming the predominantly agrarian country into an industrialized one, was followed throughout Romania, including in areas inhabited by minorities although much less significant.\n\nBy the late 1950s the regime of Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej increasingly manipulated Romanian nationalism as a popular legitimizing device applying more repressive policies toward the Hungarian minority. After the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 the Magyar Autonomous Region was dissolved and most key posts were filled by loyal Romanians.\n\nIn 1959, the Hungarian university in Cluj was merged with the Romanian one to become an almost exclusively Romanian-language institution. The event was marked by the suicide of several Hungarian professors. The Romanianization of education had begun earlier, in 1958 through the forced merger of Magyar primary schools with Romanian ones. The Csángós for their part lost their last Hungarian school in 1958.\n\nAfter Nicolae Ceaușescu came to power in the 1960s, the assimilationist drive was pursued with new vigor. The remaining minority \"privileges\" were lost, Hungarian representation in the local bureaucracies was limited to the proportion of Hungarians in the total population. Mass resettlement of Romanians into Transylvania took place. \nHungarian intellectuals were coerced into leaving Transylvania and were compelled to take jobs in non-Hungarian areas which also contributed to Romanianization.\n\nAccording to census data, the Hungarian population of Transylvania decreased from 25.5% in 1920 to 19.6% in 2002. Changes were more significant in cities/larger settlements, where Hungarians used to be majoritarian, especially in Northern Transylvanian cities such as Oradea and Cluj-Napoca. It is possible that the population of Hungarians in these cities dropped since many Romanians declared themselves to be Hungarians when Transylvania was under the control of Austria-Hungary. Many Romanians would magyarize their last names since Romanians were considered second-class citizens in Austria-Hungary.\n\nRomanianization of the Transylvanian population was also affected by the fact that 300,000 Germans emigrated into West Germany. The West German state paid to Romania the equivalent of $2,632 per ethnic German emigrant, as of 1983.\nAlso, about 50,000 Jews who survived the Holocaust emigrated to Israel on similar terms. These mass emigrations were, however, an example of positive discrimination towards the German and Jewish populations, as the rest of the Transylvanian population (Romanians, Hungarians, Romas) had no opportunity to take part in this economical emigration.\n\nRomanianization was less sustained in the compact Székely areas of south-eastern Transylvania (the Székely Land), where in 2002 Hungarians made around 61% of the population. The capital city of the former Hungarian Autonomous Province (covering mostly the Székely areas) is an exception: the percentage of Hungarians in Târgu Mureş decreased to 46%, as the industrialization of the city led many people from the surrounding rural areas (largely Romanian) to move into the city.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Romanian Revolution of 1989, ethnic-based political parties were constituted by both the Hungarians, who founded the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania, and by the Romanian Transylvanians, who founded the Romanian National Unity Party. Ethnic conflicts, however, never occurred on a significant scale, even though some violent clashes, such as the Târgu Mureș events of March 1990, did take place shortly after the fall of Ceaușescu regime.\n\nIn 1995, a basic treaty on the relations between Hungary and Romania was signed. In the treaty, Hungary renounced all territorial claims to Transylvania, and Romania reiterated its respect for the rights of its minorities. Relations between the two countries improved as Romania and Hungary became EU members in the 2000s.\n\nThe Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania (UDMR) is the major representative of Hungarians in Romania, and is a member of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization. The aim of the UDMR is to achieve local government, cultural and territorial autonomy and the right to self-determination for Hungarians. UDMR is a member of the European Democrat Union (EDU) and the European People's Party (EPP). Since 1996, the UDMR has been a member or supporter of every governmental coalition.\n\nPolitical agreements have brought the gradual implementation of Hungarian language in everyday life: Public administration Law 215/2002 stipulates \"the use of national minority languages in public administration in settlements where minorities exceed 20% of the population\"; minority ethnics will receive a copy of the documents in Romanian language and a translation in their language; however, official documents are preserved by the local administration in Romanian only; local administration will provide inscriptions for the names of localities and public institutions under their authority, and display public interest announcements in the native language of the citizens of the respective ethnic minority under the same 20% rule.\n\nEven though Romania co-signed the European laws for protecting minorities' rights, the implementation has not proved satisfactory to all members of Hungarian community. There is a movement by Hungarians both for an increase in autonomy and distinct cultural development. Initiatives proposed by various Hungarian political organizations include the creation of an \"autonomous region\" in the counties that form the \"Székely region\" (\"Székelyföld\"), roughly corresponding to the territory of the former Hungarian Autonomous Province as well as the historical Székely Land that had been abolished by the Hungarian government in the second half of the 19th century, and the re-establishment of an independent state-funded Hungarian-language university.\n\nHowever, the situation of the Hungarian minority in Romania has been seen as a model of cultural and ethnic diversity in the Balkan area: In an address to the American people, President Clinton asked in the midst of the air war in Kosovo: \"Who is going to define the future of this part the world... Slobodan Milošević, with his propaganda machine and paramilitary forces which compel people to give up their country, identity, and property, or a state like Romania which has built a democracy respecting the rights of ethnic minorities?\"\n\nThe process is, with a lower intensity, active even in our days, irrespective of the political affiliation of the current government, partly because each party uses the ethnic minorities as scapegoats for their own electoral benefit. The measures include:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe territories of Bukovina (today split between Romania and Ukraine) and Bessarabia (today by 2/3 in the Republic of Moldova and 1/3 in Ukraine), historically populated by the Romanians and Ukrainians for hundreds of years.\n\nIn 1775, Bukovina was annexed by the Habsburg Empire, which offered certain currency in the public life for the two nations, however the general policy on churches and education disfavored the Christian Orthodox population. Austrian control favored immigration to develop the economy of the region. Due to Bukovina being administratively linked to the province of Galicia, the ethnic composition of the province was altered by waves of Ruthenian (Ukrainian), German and Jewish immigrants. According to Keith Hitchins, \"In 1774 the estimated population was 75000; in 1810 it was 198,000, and in 1848 378,000. The changes in the province's ethnic composition were dramatic. In 1774 the Romanians constituted an overwhelming majority, roughly 64,000 to 8,000 Ruthenians (Ukrainians) and 3,000 others. By 1810 the Romanian share had fallen from 85 per cent to 75 per cent (150,000 to 48,000 non-Romanians), and in 1848 there were 209,000 Romanians (55 per cent), 109,000 Ukrainians (29 per cent) and 60,000 others (16 per cent). The Jewish population rose from 526 in 1774 to 11,600 in 1848.\"\n\nIn 1918, following the collapse of Austria-Hungary, control over the whole of Bukovina fell under the Kingdom of Romania; same situation happens in Bessarabia after the relinquishment of Russian Empire. The takeover was followed by the policy of Romanianization of ethnic minorities, mostly Ukrainians, pursued by the Romanian authorities. The policies were built on an increasing sentiment spread in Romanian media and historic works that all of Bukovina was inherently a Romanian ethnic territory. Ion Nistor, a prominent Romanian historian and one of the most vocal proponents of Greater Romanian nationalism, was made a rector of the University of Cernăuţi (Chernivtsi), the main university of the province. Enrollment of Ukrainians in the university fell from 239 out of 1671 in 1914 to 155 out of 3,247 in 1933, while Romanian enrollment in the same period increased to 2,117 out of 3,247.\n\nThe Romanianization policies brought the closure of the Ukrainian public schools (all such schools were closed until 1928) and the suppression of most of the Ukrainian (Ruthenian) cultural institutions. The very term \"Ukrainians\" was prohibited from the official usage and some populations of disputable Ukrainian ethnicity were rather called the \"citizens of Romania who forgot their native language\" and were forced to change their last names to Romanian-sounding ones. Among those who were Romanianized were descendants of Romanians who were assimilated to Ukrainian society in the past. As such, according to the Romanian census, of the total population of 805,000, 74% were called Romanians; the number included the Ukrainians and other possibly related Ukrainian ethnic groups Hutsuls referred to as \"Romanians who forgot their native language\"\n\nAccording to the 1930 census, Ukrainians made up 3.2% of the population of Romania. The declines in Ukrainian population between the censuses of 1919 and 1930 is illustrated as follows: the first census indicates a population of 16,250,000, of which 763,750 (4.7%) were Ukrainians; in 1930, as the total population had increased by 11% (to 18,025,896), the Ukrainian community had dropped to 576,828 members (75.5% of the previous total).\n\nOther ethnic minorities who were Romanianized are Bulgarians who first arrived during the First and Second Bulgarian Empires in the 7th and 11th centuries respectively, Turks who arrived during Ottoman Empire, and Russians who arrived in Wallachia and Bessarabia. These ethnic minorities were not forcibly Romanianized, but voluntarily as many of them speak their own languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9027661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9027661", "title": "Saogat", "text": "Saogat\n\nSaogat, also called \"Saugat\" (meaning \"Presentation\" İn English), was a leading Bengali literary journal. First published in Calcutta in 1918, its editor was Mohammad Nasiruddin. Abdul Karim, a scholar, also edited the magazine, which was published on a monthly basis. It mostly covered the work of Bengali Muslim authors and supported for the involvement of Bengali Muslim women in literary activities.\n\nThe publication of \"Saogat\" was kept suspended in 1922 due to financial constraints. In 1926 its publication was resumed and since then it continued uninterruptedly until 1947.\n"}
{"id": "5590004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5590004", "title": "Sociology of law", "text": "Sociology of law\n\nThe sociology of law (or legal sociology) is often described as a sub-discipline of sociology or an interdisciplinary approach within legal studies. Some see sociology of law as belonging \"necessarily\" to the field of sociology, but others tend to consider it a field of research caught up between the disciplines of law and sociology. Still others regard it neither a subdiscipline of sociology nor a branch of legal studies but as a field of research on its own right within the broader social science tradition. Accordingly, it may be described without reference to mainstream sociology as \"the systematic, theoretically grounded, empirical study of law as a set of social practices or as an aspect or field of social experience\". It has been seen as treating law and justice as fundamental institutions of the basic structure of society mediating \"between political and economic interests, between culture and the normative order of society, establishing and maintaining interdependence, and constituting themselves as sources of consensus, coercion and social control\".\n\nIrrespective of whether sociology of law is defined as a sub-discipline of sociology, an approach within legal studies or a field of research in its own right, it remains intellectually dependent mainly on the traditions, methods and theories of mainstream sociology and, to a lesser extent, on other social sciences such as social anthropology, political science, social policy, criminology and psychology. As such, it reflects social theories and employs social scientific methods to study law, legal institutions and legal behavior.\n\nMore specifically, sociology of law consists of various approaches to the study of law in society, which empirically examine and theorise the interaction between law, legal, non-legal institutions and social factors. Areas of socio-legal inquiry include the social development of legal institutions, forms of social control, legal regulation, the interaction between legal cultures, the social construction of legal issues, legal profession and the relation between law and social change.\n\nSociology of law also benefits from and occasionally draws on research conducted within other fields such as comparative law, critical legal studies, jurisprudence, legal theory, law and economics and law and literature. Its object encompasses the historical movement of law and justice and their relentless contemporary construction such as in the field of jurisprudence focused on institutional questions conditioned by social and political situations, in interdisciplinary dominions such as criminology and through analysis of the economic efficiency and the social impact of legal norms.\n\nThe roots of the sociology of law can be traced back to the works of sociologists and jurists of the turn of the previous century. The relationship between law and society was sociologically explored in the seminal works of both Max Weber and Émile Durkheim. The writings on law by these classical sociologists are foundational to the entire sociology of law today. A number of other scholars, mainly jurists, also employed social scientific theories and methods in an attempt to develop sociological theories of law. Notably among these were Leon Petrazycki, Eugen Ehrlich and Georges Gurvitch.\n\nFor Max Weber, a so-called \"legal rational form\" as a type of domination within society, is not attributable to people but to abstract norms. He understood the body of coherent and calculable law in terms of a rational-legal authority. Such coherent and calculable law formed a precondition for modern political developments and the modern bureaucratic state and developed in parallel with the growth of capitalism. Central to the development of modern law is the formal rationalisation of law on the basis of general procedures that are applied equally and fairly to all. Modern rationalised law is also codified and impersonal in its application to specific cases. In general, Weber's standpoint can be described as an external approach to law that studies the empirical characteristics of law, as opposed to the internal perspective of the legal sciences and the moral approach of the philosophy of law.\n\nÉmile Durkheim wrote in \"The Division of Labour in Society\" that as society becomes more complex, the body of civil law concerned primarily with restitution and compensation grows at the expense of criminal laws and penal sanctions. Over time, law has undergone a transformation from repressive law to restitutive law. Restitutive law operates in societies in which there is a high degree of individual variation and emphasis on personal rights and responsibilities. For Durkheim, law is an indicator of the mode of integration of a society, which can be mechanical, among identical parts, or organic, among differentiated parts such as in industrialized societies. Durkheim also argued that a sociology of law should be developed alongside, and in close connection with, a sociology of morals, studying the development of value systems reflected in law.\n\nIn \"Fundamental Principles of the Sociology of Law\", Eugen Ehrlich developed a sociological approach to the study of law by focusing on how social networks and groups organized social life. He explored the relationship between law and general social norms and distinguished between \"positive law,\" consisting of the compulsive norms of state requiring official enforcement, and \"living law,\" consisting of the rules of conduct that people in fact obeyed and which dominated social life. The latter emerged spontaneously as people interacted with each other to form social associations.\n\nThis was subjected to criticism by the advocates of legal positivism such as the jurist Hans Kelsen for its distinction between \"law created by the state and law produced by the organisational imperatives of non-state social associations\". According to Kelsen, Ehrlich had confused \"Sein\" (\"is\") and \"Sollen\" (\"ought\"). However, some argued that Ehrlich was distinguishing between positive (or state) law, which lawyers learn and apply, and other forms of 'law', what Ehrlich called \"living law\", that regulate everyday life, generally preventing conflicts from reaching lawyers and courts.\nLeon Petrazycki distinguished between forms of \"official law,\" supported by the state, and \"intuitive law,\" consisting of legal experiences that, in turn, consist of a complex of psychic processes in the mind of the individual with no reference to outside authorities. Petrazycki's work addressed sociological problems and his method was empirical, since he maintained that one could gain knowledge of objects or relationships only by observation. However, he couched his theory in the language of cognitive psychology and moral philosophy rather than sociology. Consequently, his contribution to the development of sociology of law remains largely unrecognized. For example, Petrazycki's \"intuitive law\" influenced not only the development of Georges Gurvitch's concept of \"social law\" (see below), which in turn has left its mark on socio-legal theorising, but also the work of later socio-legal scholars. Among those who were directly inspired by Petrazycki's work is the Polish legal sociologist Adam Podgórecki.\n\nTheodor Geiger developed a close-knit analysis of the Marxist theory of law. He highlighted how law becomes a \"factor in social transformation in democratic societies of the kind that are governed by the consent expressed by universal suffrage of the population practised at regular intervals\". Geiger went on to develop the salient characteristics of his antimetaphysical thinking, until he exceeded it with practical nihilism. Geiger's nihilism of values paved the way for a form of legal nihilism, which encourages the construction of a sober democracy \"that is capable of raising conflict to the intellectual level and of anaesthetising feelings, as it is aware of its own inability to make any proclamation of value, ethics or policy about the nature of truth\".\n\nGeorges Gurvitch was interested in the fusion of simultaneous manifestation of law in various forms and at various levels of social interaction. His aim was to devise the concept of \"social law\" as a law of integration and cooperation. Gurvitch's social law was an integral part of his general sociology. \"It is also one of the early sociological contributions to the theory of legal pluralism, since it challenged all conceptions of law based on a single source of legal, political, or moral authority\".\n\nAs a discipline, the sociology of law had an early reception in Argentina. As a local movement of legal scholars steeming from the work of Carlos Cossio, South American researchers have focused on comparative law and sociological insights, constitutional law and society, human rights, and psycho-social approaches to the legal practices.\n\nThe sociology of law became clearly established as an academic field of learning and empirical research after the Second World War. After World War II, the study of law was not central in sociology, although some well-known sociologists did write about the role of law in society. In the work of Talcott Parsons, for instance, law is conceived as an essential mechanism of social control. In response to the criticisms that were developed against functionalism, other sociological perspectives of law emerged. Critical sociologists, developed a perspective of law as an instrument of power. However, other theorists in the sociology of law, such as Philip Selznick, argued that modern law became increasingly responsive to a society's needs and had to be approached morally as well. Still other scholars, most notably the American sociologist Donald Black, developed a resolutely scientific theory of law on the basis of a paradigm of pure sociology. Equally broad in orientation, but again different, is the autopoietic systems theory of the German sociologist Niklas Luhmann, who presents law or \"the legal system\" as one of the ten \"function systems\" (see functional differentiation) of society.\n\nSocial philosopher Jürgen Habermas disagrees with Luhmann and argues that the law can do a better job as a 'system' institution' by representing more faithfully the interests of everyday people in the 'lifeworld'. Yet another sociological theory of law and lawyers is that of Pierre Bourdieu and his followers, who see law as a social field in which actors struggle for cultural, symbolic and economic capital and in so doing develop the reproductive professional \"habitus\" of the lawyer. In several continental European countries empirical research in sociology of law developed strongly from the 1960s and 1970s. In Poland the work of Adam Podgórecki and his associates (often influenced by Petrazycki's ideas) was especially notable; in Sweden empirical research in sociology of law in this period was pioneered especially by Per Stjernquist, and in Norway by Vilhelm Aubert.\n\nIn more recent years, a very wide range of theories has emerged in the sociology of law as a result of the proliferation of theories in sociology at large. Among the recent influences can be mentioned the work of the French philosopher Michel Foucault, the German social theorist Jürgen Habermas, feminism, postmodernism and deconstruction, neo-Marxism, and behaviorism. The variety of theoretical influences in the sociology of law has also marked the broader law and society field. The multi-disciplinary law and society field remains very popular, while the disciplinary speciality field of the sociology of law is also \"better organized than ever in institutional and professional respects\".\n\nLaw and Society is an American movement, which was established after the Second World War through the initiative mainly of sociologists who had a vested interest in the study of law. The rationale of the Law and Society movement is subtly summed up in two short sentences by Lawrence Friedman: \"Law is a massive vital presence in the United States. It is too important to be left to lawyers\". Its founders believed that the \"study of law and legal institutions in their social context could be constituted as a scholarly field distinguished by its commitment to interdisciplinary dialogue and multidisciplinary research methods\". The establishment of the Law and Society Association in 1964 and of the \"Law and Society Review\" in 1966 guaranteed continuity in the scholarly activities of the Law and Society movement and allowed its members to influence legal education and policy-making in the US.\n\nOn one view, the main difference between the sociology of law and Law and Society is that the latter does not limit itself theoretically or methodologically to sociology and tries instead to accommodate insights from all social science disciplines. \"Not only does it provides a home for sociologists and social anthropologists and political scientists with an interest in law, it also tries to incorporate psychologists and economists who study law.\" From another point of view, both sociology of law and Law and Society should be seen as multi-disciplinary or trans-disciplinary enterprises although sociology of law has special ties to the methods, theories and traditions of sociology.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s a number of original empirical studies were conducted by Law and Society scholars on conflict and dispute resolution. In his early work, William Felstiner, for example, focused on alternative ways to solve conflicts (avoidance, mediation, litigation etc.). Together with Richard Abel and Austin Sarat, Felstiner developed the idea of a disputes pyramid and the formula \"naming, blaming, claiming\", which refers to different stages of conflict resolution and levels of the pyramid.\n\nThe sociology of law is often distinguished from sociological jurisprudence. The latter is not primarily concerned with debates within mainstream sociology and instead engages with some of the debates within jurisprudence and legal theory. Sociological jurisprudence seeks to base legal arguments on sociological insights and, unlike legal theory, is concerned with the mundane practices that create legal institutions and social operations which reproduce legal systems over time. It was developed in the United States by Louis Brandeis and Roscoe Pound. It was influenced by the work of pioneer legal sociologists, such as the Austrian jurist Eugen Ehrlich and the Russian-French sociologist Georges Gurvitch.\n\nAlthough distinguishing between different branches of the social scientific studies of law allows us to explain and analyse the development of the sociology of law in relation to mainstream sociology and legal studies, such potentially artificial distinctions are not necessarily fruitful for the development of the field as whole. For the social scientific studies of law to transcend the theoretical and empirical limits, which currently define their scope, they need to go beyond such artificial distinctions.\n\n'Socio-legal studies' in the UK has grown mainly out of the interest of law schools in promoting interdisciplinary studies of law. Whether regarded as an emerging discipline, sub-discipline or a methodological approach, it is often viewed in light of its relationship to, and oppositional role within, law. It should not, therefore, be confused with the legal sociology of many West European countries or the Law and Society scholarship in the US, which foster much stronger disciplinary ties with social sciences. In the past, it has been presented as the applied branch of the sociology of law and criticised for being empiricist and atheoretical. Max Travers, for example, regards socio-legal studies as a subfield of social policy, 'mainly concerned with influencing or serving government policy in the provision of legal services' and adds that it \"has given up any aspirations it once had to develop general theories about the policy process\".\n\nNotable practitioners of socio-legal studies include Professor Carol Smart, co-director of the Morgan Centre for the Study of Relationships and Personal Life, (named after the sociologist, David Morgan), as well as Professor Mavis Maclean and John Eekelaar who are joint directors of the Oxford Centre for Family Law and Policy (OXFLAP).\n\nSocio-legal methods of investigation\n\nThe sociology of law has no methods of investigation which have been developed specifically for conducting socio-legal research. Instead, it employs a wide variety of social scientific methods, including qualitative and quantitative research techniques, to explore law and legal phenomena. Positivistic as well as interpretive (such as discourse analysis) and ethnographic approaches to data collection and analysis is used within the socio-legal field.\n\nSociology of law was a small, but developing, sub-field of British sociology and legal scholarship at the time when Campbell and Wiles wrote their review of law and society research in 1976. Unfortunately, despite its initial promise, it has remained a small field. Very few empirical sociological studies are published each year. Nevertheless, there have been some excellent studies, representing a variety of sociological traditions as well as some major theoretical contributions. The two most popular approaches during the 1960s and 1970s were interactionism and Marxism.\n\nSymbolic interactionism and Marxism\n\nInteractionism had become popular in America in the 1950s and 1960s as a politically radical alternative to structural-functionalism. Instead of viewing society as a system regulating and controlling the actions of individuals, interactionists argued that sociology should address what people were doing in particular situations, and how they understood their own actions. The sociology of deviance, which included topics such as crime, homosexuality, and mental illness, became the focus for these theoretical debates. Functionalists had portrayed crime as a problem to be managed by the legal system. Labeling theorists, by contrast, focused on the process of law-making and enforcement: how crime was constructed as a problem. A number of British sociologists, and some researchers in law schools, have drawn on these ideas in writing about law and crime.\n\nThe most influential sociological approach during this period was, however, Marxism—which claimed to offer a scientific and comprehensive understanding of society as a whole in the same way as structural-functionalism, although with the emphasis on the struggle between different groups for material advantage, rather than value-consensus. This approach caught the imagination of many people with left-wing political views in law schools, but it also generated some interesting empirical studies. These included historical studies about how particular\nstatutes were used to advance the interests of dominant economic groups, and also Pat Carlen's memorable ethnography, which combined analytic resources from Marxism and interactionism, especially the sociology of Erving Goffman, in writing about magistrates' courts.\n\nThe Oxford Centre for Socio-Legal Studies\n\nThe 1980s were also a fruitful time for empirical sociology of law in Britain, mainly\nbecause Donald Harris deliberately set out to create the conditions for a fruitful\nexchange between lawyers and sociologists at the University of Oxford Centre for Socio-Legal Studies. He was fortunate enough to recruit a number of young and\ntalented social scientists, including J. Maxwell Atkinson and Robert Dingwall who were interested in ethnomethodology, conversation analysis, and the sociology\nof the professions, and Doreen McBarnet who became something of a cult figure on the left after publishing her doctoral thesis, which advanced a particularly clear and vigorous Marxist analysis of the criminal justice system. Ethnomethodology has not previously been mentioned in this review, and tends to be overlooked by many reviewers in this field since it cannot easily be assimilated to their theoretical interests. One can note, however, that it has always offered a more radical and thorough-going way of theorizing action than interactionism (although the two approaches have a lot in common when compared to traditions that view society as a structural whole, like Marxism or structural-functionalism). During his time at the center, J. Maxwell Atkinson collaborated with Paul Drew, a sociologist at the University of York, in what became the first conversation analytic study of courtroom interaction, using transcripts of coroner's hearings in Northern Ireland.\n\nAnother area of interest developed at Oxford during this period was the sociology of the professions. Robert Dingwall and Philip Lewis edited what remains an interesting and theoretically diverse collection, bringing together specialists from the sociology of law and medicine. The best known study to date has, however, been published by the American scholar Richard Abel who employed ideas and concepts from functionalist, Marxist, and Weberian\nsociology to explain the high incomes and status that British lawyers enjoyed for most of the twentieth century.\n\nRecent developments\n\nSince the 1980s, relatively few empirical studies of law and legal institutions have been conducted by British sociologists, i.e. studies which are empirical and at the same time engage with the theoretical concerns of sociology. There are, however, some exceptions. To begin with, sociology of law, along with so many areas of academic work, has been enlivened and renewed through engagement with feminism. There has been a great deal of\ninterest in the implications of Foucault's ideas on governmentality for understanding\nlaw, and also in continental thinkers such as Niklas Luhmann and Pierre Bourdieu. Again, one can argue that rather fewer empirical studies have been produced than one might have hoped, but a great deal of interesting work has been published.\n\nA second exception is to be found in the works of researchers who have employed resources from ethnomethodology and symbolic interactionism in studying legal settings. This type of research is clearly sociological rather than socio-legal research because it continually engages in debate with other theoretical traditions in sociology. Max Travers' doctoral thesis about the work of a firm of criminal lawyers took other sociologists, and especially Marxists, to task for not addressing or respecting how lawyers and clients understand their own actions (a standard argument used by ethnomethodologists in debates with structural traditions in the discipline). It also, however, explored issues raised by legal thinkers in their critique of structural traditions in sociology of law: the extent to which social science can address the content of legal practice.\n\nDespite the relatively limited developments in recent empirical research, theoretical debates in sociology of law have been important in British literature during recent decades, with contributions from David Nelken exploring the problems of a comparative sociology of law and the potential of the idea of legal cultures, Roger Cotterrell seeking to develop a new view of the relations of law and community to replace what he sees as outdated 'law and society' paradigms, and other scholars, such as David Schiff and Richard Nobles, examining the potential of Luhmannian systems theory and the extent to which law can be seen as an autonomous social field rather than as intimately interrelated with other aspects of the social. Also significant has been the burgeoning field of socio-legal research on regulation and government, to which British scholars have been prominent contributors.\n\nIn contrast to the traditional understanding of law (see the separate entry on law), the sociology of law does not normally view and define the law only as a system of rules, doctrine and decisions, which exist independently of the society out of which it has emerged. The rule-based aspect of law is, admittedly, important, but provides an inadequate basis for describing, analysing and understanding law in its societal context. Thus, legal sociology regards law as a set of institutional practices which have evolved over time and developed in relation to, and through interaction with, cultural, economic and socio-political structures and institutions. As a modern social system, law does strive to gain and retain its autonomy to function independently of other social institutions and systems such as religion, polity and economy. Yet, it remains historically and functionally linked to these other institutions. Thus, one of the objectives of the sociology of law remains to devise empirical methodologies capable of describing and explaining modern law's interdependence with other social institutions.\n\nSome influential approaches within the sociology of law have challenged definitions of law in terms of official (state) law (see for example Eugen Ehrlich's concept of \"living law\" and Georges Gurvitch's \"social law\"). From this standpoint, law is understood broadly to include not only the legal system and formal (or official) legal institutions and processes, but also various informal (or unofficial) forms of nomativity and regulation which are generated within groups, associations and communities. The sociological studies of law are, thus, not limited to analysing how the rules or institutions of the legal system interact with social class, gender, race, religion, sexuality and other social categories. They also focus on how the internal normative orderings of various groups and \"communities\", such as the community of lawyers, businessmen, scientists, members of political parties, or members of the Mafia, interact with each other. In short, law is studied as an integral and constitutive part of social institutions, groupings and communities. This approach is developed further under the section on legal pluralism.\n\nThe interest in the sociology of law continues to be more widespread in Western countries. Some important research has been produced by Indian scholars, but we find only a limited amount of socio-legal work by researchers from, for example, the Middle East or central and northern parts of Africa. Thus, the global spread of sociological studies of law appears uneven and concentrated, above all, in industrialised nations with democratic political systems. In this sense, the global expansion of legal sociology “is not taking place uniformly across national boundaries and appears to correlate with a combination of factors such as national wealth/poverty and form of political organisation, as well as historical factors such as the growth of the welfare state... However, none of these factors alone can explain this disparity”.\n\nLegal pluralism is a concept developed by legal sociologists and social anthropologists \"to describe multiple layers of law, usually with different sources of legitimacy, that exist within a single state or society\". It is also defined \"as a situation in which two or more legal systems coexist in the same social field\". Legal pluralists define law broadly to include not only the system of courts and judges backed by the coercive power of the state, but also the \"non-legal forms of normative ordering\". Legal pluralism consists of many different methodological approaches and as a concept, it embraces \"diverse and often contested perspectives on law, ranging from the recognition of different legal orders within the nation-state, to a more far reaching and open-ended concept of law that does not necessarily depend on state recognition for validity. This latter concept of law may come into being whenever two or more legal systems exist in the same social field\".\n\nLegal pluralism has occupied a central position in socio-legal theorising from the very beginning of the sociology of law. The sociological theories of Eugen Ehrlich and Georges Gurvitch were early sociological contributions to legal pluralism. It has, moreover, provided the most enduring topic of socio-legal debate over many decades within both the sociology of law and legal anthropology. and has received more than its share of criticism from the proponents of the various schools of legal positivism. The critics often ask: \"How is law distinguished in a pluralist view from other normative systems? What makes a social rule system legal?\".\n\nThe controversy arises mainly \"from the claim that the only true law is the law made and enforced by the modern state\". This standpoint is also known as \"legal centralism\". From a legal centralist standpoint, John Griffiths writes, \"law is and should be the law of the state, uniform for all persons, exclusive of all other law, and administrated by a single set of state institutions. Thus, according to legal centralism, \"customary laws and religious laws are not properly called 'law' except in so far as state has chosen to adopt and treat any such normative order as part of its own law\".\n\nA distinction is often made between the \"weak\" and the \"strong\" versions of legal pluralism. The \"weak\" version does not necessarily question the main assumptions of \"legal centralism\", but only recognises that within the domain of the Western state law other legal systems, such as customary or Islamic law, may also have an autonomous (co-)existence. Thus, the \"weak\" version does not consider other forms of normative ordering as law. As Tamanaha, one of the critics of legal pluralism, puts it: \"Normative ordering is, well, normative ordering. Law is something else, something that we isolate out and call law…\". The \"strong\" version, on the other hand, rejects all legal centralist and formalist models of law, as \"a myth, an ideal, a claim, an illusion,\" regarding state law as one among many forms of law or forms of social ordering. It insists that modern law is plural, that it is private as well as public, but most importantly \"the national (public official) legal system is often a secondary rather than the primary locus of regulation\".\n\nThe criticism directed at legal pluralism often uses the basic assumptions of legal positivism to question the validity of theories of legal pluralism which aim at criticising those very (positivistic) assumptions. As Roger Cotterrell explains, the pluralist conception should be understood as part of \"the legal sociologist's effort to broaden perspectives on law. A legal sociologist's specification of law might be different from that presupposed by a lawyer in practice, but it will relate (indeed, in some way incorporate) the latter because it must (if it is to reflect legal experience) take account of lawyers' perspectives on law. Thus a pluralist approach in legal theory is likely to recognise what lawyers typically recognize as law, but may see this law as one species of a larger genus, or treat lawyers' conception of law as reflecting particular perspectives determined by particular objectives\".\n\nHumberto Maturana and Francisco Varela originally coined the concept of autopoiesis within theoretical biology to describe the self-reproduction of living cells through self-reference. This concept was later borrowed, reconstructed in sociological terms, and introduced into the sociology of law by Niklas Luhmann. Luhmann's systems theory transcends the classical understanding of object/subject by regarding communication (and not 'action') as the basic element of any social system. He breaks with traditional systems theory of Talcott Parsons and descriptions based on cybernetic feedback loops and structural understandings of self-organisation of the 1960s. This allows him to work towards devising a solution to the problem of the humanised 'subject'.\n\n\"Perhaps the most challenging idea incorporated in the theory of autopoiesis is that social systems should not be defined in terms of human agency or norms, but of communications. Communication is in turn the unity of utterance, information and understanding and constitutes social systems by recursively reproducing communication. This sociologically radical thesis, which raises the fear of a dehumanised theory of law and society, attempts to highlight the fact that social systems are constituted by communicative.\"\n\nAccording to Roger Cotterrell, \"Luhmann... treats the theory as the basis for all general sociological analysis of social systems and their mutual relations. But its theoretical claims about law's autonomy are very powerful postulates, presented in advance of (and even, perhaps, in place of) the kind of detailed empirical study of social and legal change that comparatists and most legal sociologists are likely to favour. The postulates of autopoiesis theory do not so much guide empirical research as explain conclusively how to interpret whatever this research may discover.\"\n\nLegal culture is one of the central concepts of the sociology of law. The study of legal cultures may, at the same time, be regarded as one of the general approaches within the sociology of law.\n\nAs a concept, it refers to \"relatively stable patterns of legally-oriented social behaviour and attitudes,\" and as such is regarded as a subcategory of the concept of culture. It is a relatively new concept which, according to David Nelken, can be traced to \"terms like legal tradition or legal style, which have a much longer history in comparative law or in early political science. It presupposes and invites us to explore the existence of systematic variations in patterns in 'law in the books' and 'law in action,' and, above all, in the relation between them\".\n\nAs an approach, it focuses on the cultural aspects of law, legal behaviour and legal institutions and, thus, has affinity with cultural anthropology, legal pluralism, and comparative law.\n\nLawrence M. Friedman is among socio-legal scholars who introduced the idea of legal culture into the sociology of law. For Friedman, legal culture \"refers to public knowledge of and attitudes and behaviour patterns toward the legal system\". It can also consist of \"bodies of custom organically related to the culture as a whole. Friedman stresses the plurality of legal cultures and points out that one can explore legal cultures at different levels of abstraction, e.g. at the level of the legal system, the state, the country, or the community. Friedman is also known for introducing the distinction between the \"internal\" and \"external\" legal cultures. Somewhat oversimplified, the former refers to the general attitudes and perceptions of law among the functionaries of the legal system, such as the judiciary, while the latter can refer to the attitude of the citizenry to the legal system or to law and order generally.\n\nLaw has always been regarded as one of the important sites of engagement for feminism. As pointed out by Ruth Fletcher feminist engagement with the law has taken many forms through the years, which also indicates their successful merging of theory and practice: \"Through litigation, campaigns for reform and legal education, feminists have engaged explicitly with law and the legal profession. In taking on the provisions of specialist advice services, women's groups have played a role in making law accessible to those in need. By subjecting legal concepts and methods to critical analysis, feminists have questioned the terms of legal debate.\"\n\nGlobalization is often defined in terms of economic processes which bring about radical cultural developments at the level of world society. Although law is an essential ingredient of the process of globalization - and important studies of law and globalization were already conducted in the 1990s by, for example, Yves Dezalay and Bryant Garth and Volkmar Gessner - law's importance for creating and maintaining the globalization processes are often neglected within the sociology of globalization and remain, arguably, somewhat underdeveloped within the sociology of law.\n\nAs pointed out by Halliday and Osinsky, \"Economic globalization cannot be understood apart from global business regulation and the legal construction of the markets on which it increasingly depends. Cultural globalization cannot be explained without attention to intellectual property rights institutionalized in law and global governance regimes. The globalization of protections for vulnerable populations cannot be comprehended without tracing the impact of international criminal and humanitarian law or international tribunals. Global contestation over the institutions of democracy and state building cannot be meaningful unless considered in relation to constitutionalism.\"\n\nThe socio-legal approaches to the study of globalization and global society often overlap with, or make use of, studies of legal cultures and legal pluralism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "293273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293273", "title": "Syndicate", "text": "Syndicate\n\nA syndicate is a self-organizing group of individuals, companies, corporations or entities formed to transact some specific business, to pursue or promote a shared interest.\n\nThe word \"syndicate\" comes from the French word \"syndicat\" which means \"trade union\" (\"syndic\" meaning \"administrator\"), from the Latin word \"syndicus\" which in turn comes from the Greek word σύνδικος (\"syndikos\"), which means \"caretaker of an issue\"; compare to ombudsman or representative.\n\nThe \"Merriam Webster Dictionary\" defines syndicate as a group of people or businesses that work together as a team. This may be a council or body or association of people or an association of concerns, officially authorized to undertake a duty or negotiate business with an office or jurisdiction. It may mean an association of racketeers in organized crime. It may refer to a business concern that sells materials for publication (newspaper, radio, TV, internet) in a number of outlets simultaneously, or a group of newspapers under one management.\n\nA syndicate, labor syndicate or worker's syndicate can also mean a trade union. This usage mirrors the common meaning of the word's etymological cousins in languages such as French and Spanish.\n\nIn this sense, the term is also associated with anarchist theory, specifically anarcho-syndicalism, in which trade unions form an alternative to both the nation state and capitalist corporations. Anarchists, syndicalists, and other libertarian socialists use the word \"syndicate\" to refer to an enterprise managed by its workers. Such an enterprise is governed by a face-to-face meeting of everyone who works there, in which each worker has one vote. Either there are no managers, or the managers are directly elected and recallable. In either case, the most important decisions are made collectively by the whole workforce. This is known as workers' self-management.\n\nCrime syndicates are formed to coordinate, promote, and engage in organized crime, running common illegal businesses on a large, national, or international scale. The subunit of the syndicate is a crime family or clan, organized by blood relationships, as seen in the Italian Mafia and the Italian American Mafia crime families (the Five Families dominating New York City crime, namely, the Gambino crime family, Genovese crime family, Lucchese crime family, Bonanno crime family, and the Colombo crime family).\n\nIn media, syndicates are organizations by name and credit. For example, BBC Radio International is a radio syndicated business. A news ticker, residing in the lower third of the television screen image, usually shows syndicated news stories.\n\nPrint syndication distributes news articles, columns, comic strips, and other features to newspapers, magazines and websites. They offer reprint rights and grant permissions to other parties for republishing content of which they own/represent copyrights.\n\nA group formed of several business entities, like companies or corporations, which share common interests in a market but usually are not direct competitors. Larger companies or corporations form syndicates to strengthen their position in the market. Internet companies and corporations, focusing on various Internet ventures, tend to form syndicates within their own group, with direct competitors involved. In such cases, they share a certain type of market, like brand management or search engine optimization, and usually form a Conglomerate Syndicate. They may be syndicated nationally or internationally.\n\nIn finance, a bank syndicate, often referred to simply as a syndicate, is a group of banks lending a usually large amount of money for a specific purpose and to one single borrower. Syndicated loans are loans underwritten by a bank syndicate and are more common in the US, where financial markets are in corporate ownership rather than private equity markets as in Europe or South America.\n\nInsurance contracts (contracts of indemnity) processed under the syndicate form of business organization date to the Hammurabi Code. The notion of insurance syndicate as a process for supplying indemnity was first codified in Lex Rhodia and is still used today as shipping's Law of General Average.\n\nIt is canon to the operation of the insurance syndicate that the liability of the suppliers of surplus is several and not joint. This means that members or subscribers at insurance syndicates obligate themselves to a precise individual separate and several liability rather a joint liability. Insurance syndicates are not \"incorporated\" and may not be incorporated: the US Supreme Court has held in Roby v Lloyd's that insurance syndicates have no separate existence.\n\nToday, insurance syndicates seem present in three forms:\n\nSome insurance markets such as Lloyd's of London provide insurance coverage underwritten by syndicates of investors who bear the full liability for meeting the costs of any claims. Each member of the syndicate has several liability which is a full and unfettered liability for the costs and expenses for the consequences of the underwriting entered into by the syndicate.\n\nIn the United States there are four major insurance syndicates that supply indemnity through the several liability of their syndicate names - which are called subscribing members.\n\n\n\n\n\nThese types of insurance syndicates are operated by Attorneys-in-Fact.\n\nBecause these arrangements are neither public nor regulated, they are hard to describe and attribute. But upon information and belief, there are thousands of such arrangements in existence around the world where risks are shared by affinity/governmental/industrial groups on a several liability basis.\n\nLottery syndicates are formed to pool tickets thus increasing the chances of winning. Lottery syndicates are more common in the UK and Europe in general. They are legal in the US, but legal problems are regularly reported.\n\nIn Australia Lottery Syndicates are sold in store, by newsagents and lottery retailers. Online lottery syndicates have also increased in popularity and are sold in shares by online licensed agents, Netlotto and Ozlotteries.\n\nResearchers argue that syndicates may reduce the potential for market failure in crowdfunding, a method that allows creators to raise funds for projects from many different investors through online platforms. Equity crowdfunding allows creators to issue equity to investors when they make an investment in the project. In equity crowdfunding, information asymmetry between the creator and investor may result in a variety of problems and, in some cases, market failure.\n\nA syndicate can be started by an individual, angel investor, or venture capitalist. An individual who wants to form a syndicate creates an investment strategy and discloses it on a crowdfunding platform. Other investors can choose to back the individual, who is the leader. The backing investors must follow the leader’s investment strategy and pay them a fee. Syndicates do not exist on all equity crowdfunding platforms.\n\n"}
{"id": "1739871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1739871", "title": "Talent manager", "text": "Talent manager\n\nA talent manager (also known as an artist manager, band manager or music manager) is an individual or company who guides the professional career of artists in the entertainment industry. The responsibility of the talent manager is to oversee the day-to-day business affairs of an artist; advise and counsel talent concerning professional matters, long-term plans and personal decisions which may affect their career. \n\nThe roles and responsibilities of a talent manager vary slightly from industry to industry, as do the commissions to which the manager is entitled. For example, a music manager's duties differ from those managers who advise actors, writers, or directors. A manager can also help artists find an agent, or help them decide when to leave their current agent and identify who to select as a new agent. Talent agents have the authority to make deals for their clients while managers usually can only informally establish connections with producers and studios but do not have the ability to negotiate contracts.\n\nModern talents managers are associated with all artistic fields, sports, as well as various fields in business. Talent agents have at times been covered in the music or art press almost as intently as artists themselves, for example the various talent agents who spearheaded the British Invasion of The Beatles and Herman's Hermits in the 1960s such as Brian Epstein, Allan Williams, Harvey Lisberg. Infamous examples in the music press include Allen Klein, manager of both The Beatles and The Rolling Stones. For a list of talent agents deemed notable by , see . For notable agencies and businesses, see .\n\nThe industry of talent management has been unionized or organized in several forms throughout history. In the United States, a notable early example was the Association of Talent Agents, which was formed in Los Angeles, California in 1937. The ATA comes out of the Wagner Act upheld by the Supreme Court which established many of the unions and guilds that regulate people who work in the entertainment industry such as the Screen Actors Guild, Directors Guild of America, and Writers Guild of America.\n\nA music manager (or band manager) may handle career areas for bands, singers, and DJs. A music manager may be hired by a musician or band, or the manager may discover the band, and the relationship is usually contractually bound with mutual assurances, warranties, performances guarantees, and so forth. The manager's main job is to help with determining decisions related to career moves, bookings, promotion, business deals, recording contracts, etc. The role of music managers can be extensive and may include similar duties to that of a press agent, promoter, booking agent, business manager (who are usually certified public accountants), tour managers, and sometimes even a personal assistant. \n\nManager's contracts, however, cannot license those responsibilities unto the manager in the same way a state license would empower the agent to do so. Therefore, conflicting areas of interest may arise unless those are clarified in the contract. That said, a manager should be able to read and understand and explain a contract and study up on the long-term implications of contractual agreements that they, the bands, and the people they do business with, enter into. Before the manager enters into an agreement with the band, their relationship may be regarded as competing for interest; after a good contract is signed, their interests, obligations and incentives are aligned, and the interest in success is shared. \n\nResponsibilities of a music manager are often divided among many who manage various aspects of a musical career. With an unsigned act, music managers may assume multiple roles: graphic designer, publicist, promoter, and handling money and finances. As an artist's career develops, responsibilities may grow, and because of their percentage agreement with the band, the manager's income may grow as well. \n\nA music manager becomes important to managing the many different pieces that make up a career in music. The manager can assist singers, songwriters, and instrumentalists in molding a career, finding music producers, and developing relationships with record companies, publishers, agents, and the music-loving public. They should carefully consider when certain contributions have been made which would also entitle them to cowriting credits, Executive Producer credit, or Producer credit should they become involved in songwriting, financing works, or actually producing demos and recordings, and should carefully know these jobs and these fees should be considered either as separate from the contract, in addition to the contract, or as free to the musician as clarified in emails and the contract. \n\nThe duties of an active music manager may include supporting the band's development of a reputation for the musician(s) and building a fan base, which may include mastering and launching a demo CD, developing and releasing press kits, planning promotional activities, creating social network identities for bands, and booking shows. A music manager may be present during recording sessions and should support the artist during the creative process while not interfering between the artist and the producer, but musicians may also find valuable feedback in the extra pair of ears and this should be carefully considered as well. The manager may gain access to a recording studio, photographers, and promotions. He or she will see that CD labels, posters, and promotional materials appropriately represent the band or artist, and that press kits are released in a timely manner to appropriate media. Launching a CD with complementary venues and dates is also a music manager's responsibility.\n\nAmong all the business and professional responsibilities that music managers assume; they also become a pseudo parent for the group and help with personal matters usually. This is both for the psyche of the group and to ensure that things are running smoothly. \n\nEarly on in an artist's career, the different facets of management and marketing fall upon either the band itself or, if they have one, their manager. Because the band or artist is relatively unknown initially, promotion, booking, and touring are minimal. A new music manager begins by establishing a clear understanding of what the artist(s) want. This can be accomplished through either a written or verbal contract. A music manager's first task is to solidify all artist development aspects and then concentrate on product development.\n\nDespite the dominant presence of digital media in the music industry, there are many typical strategies that even the most modernized managers must adhere to in order to reach the managerial goals effectively. Most of these trick-of-the-trade strategies are employed to establish and maintain connections with booking agents, promote the activities of the artist, and manage finances in order to optimize the artist's ability to book gigs, establish a fan base, and ultimately bring in revenue from their work, respectively.\n\nAmong the more traditional responsibilities of music managers are booking and promoting gigs for their artist(s). Managers often become known for establishing ongoing relationships with specific venues, booking one artist at the venue regularly, or several artists on their roster. A large number of 'how-to' books have been published on the topic.\n\nAs technology has advanced, the music industry has consequently undergone a drastic change in the way it operates. The internet has made it both easier and harder to attract the attention of fans and the press, as both outreach increase but industry saturation increases. “The sale of pre-recorded music has diminished, but there’s so much more that’s going on. You can’t focus on what’s not working when there are so many other opportunities.”. Social media is a common form of online networking for managers, and platforms such as MySpace, Facebook, Beatport, Bandcamp, SoundCloud, and YouTube have been noted in the press for their use in networking in the music industry. Other fields such as business may use more common websites such as LinkedIn or Google+, while networking on behalf of a client.\n\nNot everyone is so optimistic about the role of social media in the music industry. In his article, “Why Music Won’t Be Saved By Social Media”, Wes Davenport suggests that the role of social media in the industry “has been grossly inflated”. In the article, Davenport quotes Jon Ostrow saying, “Social media is a conversation tool – that’s it”, acknowledging that there is potential for sparking conversation and building a fan base, but suggesting that social media does not necessarily live up to the potential for success that people in our modern culture seem to give credit.\n\nIn an article titled, “Case study: Making money from music” by Martin Kupp, Jamie Anderson and Joerg Reckhenrich, the effects of technological advances on the music industry are recognized, analyzed, and utilized through an online marketing strategy that led to the incredible success of Lady Gaga. Troy Carter of Coalition Media signed Gaga with the intention of making her into a star with the help of some clever marketing. Recognizing that digitalization was the cause of the almost 33% decrease in the music industry’s total revenue between the years 2000 and 2007, Carter decided to find a way to use digitalization to his advantage with his newly signed artist. Coalition Media, with the help of marketing company ThinkTank Digital, invested large amounts of time and money into developing Lady Gaga’s global presence through social media. \n\nThey set up many interviews with online bloggers, established a large following on Myspace through “constant news updates, as well as exclusives, interviews and special features” and Gaga personally handled her Twitter account, building a very personal connection with many of her fans. This strategy demonstrates the massive success that skillful online marketing can produce. The article focuses on Coalition Media and Lady Gaga’s utilization of the “Four E’s”: Emotions, Experiences, Engaging, and Exclusive. By personalizing her online activity, creating an experience, engaging, and providing exclusivity to her fans through social media marketing, Lady Gaga was able to achieve incredible levels of success with her music career.\n\nStriking a tentative compensation agreement that can be renegotiated after three or four months is recommended, and the rate of pay is generally based on commissions of 20-80 percent, or more, of performance and commercial incomes. This amount depends on the level of development the band or artist is at and the experience, networks and resources of the manager. (The less developed the artist and more experienced the manager, the higher the commission.) The artist or band should never agree to circumstances that cannot be terminated or negotiated within a short period of time.\n\nManagers usually secure the services of a professional photographer while the artist is recording. Different 8x10 pictures of the artist can be used for websites, CD labels/jackets, posters, and the press kit. Cost for high quality shoots vary from $500 for a basic shoot to thousands for several looks. Photographers are not expected to cover material cost. It is important that the manager obtains an agreement upfront confirming license to use the images which will cover the uses necessary, in addition to high resolution digital images on CD. Managers are also advised to have photographs taken before CD designs or artwork goes into production. Managers are also responsible for hiring additional staff when necessary.\n\n"}
{"id": "15907908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15907908", "title": "Taos phonology", "text": "Taos phonology\n\nThe main description of Taos Tiwa phonology was contributed by George L. Trager in a (pre-generative) structuralist framework. Earlier considerations of the phonetics-phonology were by John P. Harrington and Jaime de Angulo. Trager's first account was in Trager (1946) based on fieldwork 1935-1937, which was then substantially revised in Trager (1948) (due in part to the inclusion of juncture phonemes and newly collected data in 1947 in the analysis). The description below takes Trager (1946) as the main point of departure and notes where this differs from the analysis of Trager (1948). Harrington's description (although from a different period) is more similar to Trager (1946). Certain comments from a generative perspective are noted in a comparative work Hale (1967).\n\nThe two following sections detail phonetic information about Taos phonological segments (i.e., consonants and vowels), as well as their phonological patterning in morphophonemic alternations.\n\nTrager (1946) lists 27 consonants (25 native) for Taos, although in his later analysis he posited 18 consonants.\n\nWords exemplifying Taos consonants are in the table below:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe stem-initial consonant in many verb stems has alternates (i.e. shows consonantal ablaut) between two different forms in what Trager calls the \"basic\" stem and the \"stative\" stem. The \"basic\" stem is used for the preterit active verb form while the \"stative\" stem is used for the resultative stative verb-forms and deverbal nouns.\n\nA different set of alternations are what Trager calls \"internal\" ablaut. The last consonant of the verb stem alternates between two different consonants in the basic stem form and the negative stem form.\n\nTaos has six vowels with three contrastive vowel heights and degrees of vowel backness.\n\nFive of the vowels have an oral-nasal contrast, which persists even before a nasal consonant coda (i.e. the syllables and contrast, where C = any consonant, V = any vowel, N = any nasal consonant). For example, the Taos has a syllable before as well as syllable before as in the words ('maternal aunt') and ('this').\n\nMorphemes exemplifying Taos monophthongs are in the table below:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe allophonic variation of the vowels detailed above are summarized in the following chart:\n\n\nIn addition to these monophthongs, Taos has five (native) vowel clusters (i.e. diphthongs) that can function as syllable nuclei and are approximately the same duration as the single vowels:\n\nUnlike diphthongs in several other languages, each component of the vowel cluster has an equal prominence and duration (i.e. there are no offglides or onglides). The cluster is rare in general; the clusters are uncommon in unstressed syllables. Additionally, the vowel cluster\n\nis found in less-assimilated Spanish loanwords. Examples of the clusters are below:\n\nThe phonetics of the vowel clusters vary in their length and also their quality according to stress, tone, and position syllable structure. The clusters have vowel components of equal length in stressed closed syllables (either primary or medial stress) with mid tone. However, in unstressed syllables and in low-toned syllables (with either primary or medial stress) the first vowel in the cluster is more prominent; in high-toned syllables and in open syllables with primary stress and mid tone, the second vowel is more prominent. The nasal cluster has equally prominent vowels in primary-stressed mid-toned syllables while in closed syllables and unstressed the second vowel is extremely short. The cluster always has the first element more prominent than the second vowel.\n\nFor the quality differences, the vowel in cluster is raised toward . When short, the vowel in cluster is raised toward . The vowel in cluster is rounded to and is more rounded than the allophone of monophthong adjacent to labials. These allophones are summarized in the table below:\n\nThe monophthongs can be followed by high front and high back offglides, but these are analyzed as glide consonants in a coda position. Trager notes that in these sequences the glides are not as prominent as the vowel nuclei but that the difference is not very marked, and, in fact, Harrington (1910) describes these as diphthongs on par with Trager's \"vowel clusters\". The following vowel + glide sequences are reported in Trager (1946):\n\nNoun stems that end in a vowel have a suffixation-reduplication process in absolute forms that attaches a glottal stop and a reduplicant consisting of a reduplicated stem-final vowel to the noun stem (which is, then, followed by an inflectional suffix):\n\nIf the stem-final vowel is an oral vowel, the reduplicated vowel is exactly the same as the stem vowel:\n\nHowever, if the stem-final vowel is nasal, the nasality is not copied in the reduplicant — that is, the nasal vowel will be reduplicated as that vowel's oral counterpart:\n\nIn stems that end in a vowel cluster, only the second vowel of the cluster is reduplicated:\n\nAnd a nasal cluster has a reduplicated and denasalized second vowel:\n\nTaos shares with other languages in the region (Pueblo linguistic area) an areal feature of vowel elision at the end of words. When a word ends in a final vowel, the vowel may be deleted resulting in a consonant final word. This is especially common with final and occasionally with final . The elision is also very common when the final is preceded by a sonorant consonant such as , etc.\n\nFor example, the 3rd person pronoun particle\n\nis often phonetically\n\nwith syllable reduction and a resulting closed syllable. Other examples include\n\nIn the words , the voiced stops become phonetically voiceless, unreleased, and have long durations when word-final in addition to the loss of the final vowel.\n\nVowel elision is common in connected speech. Trager (1946) notes that the elision may affect stress patterns but that this requires further research. Trager (1944) states that the deletion of final after a sonorant and the retention of is in free variation but may be related to speaking speed and syntax although the details are still unknown.\n\nTrager analyzes Taos as having three degrees of stress:\n\n\nTrager describes Taos stress in terms of loudness; however, he also notes in several places where stress has effects on vowel length and vowel quality.\n\nAll words must have a single primary stress. Polysyllabic words can, in addition to the syllable with primary stress, have syllables with secondary stress, unstressed syllables, or a combination of both unstressed and secondarily-stressed syllables.\n\nTrager (1946) states that the primary and secondary stress levels are in complementary distribution in low-toned and high-toned syllables. However, his later analysis rejects this. \n\nWhen two morphemes both with a primary stress in each morpheme are concatenated together, the first primary stress in the leftmost morpheme becomes a secondary stress (while the rightmost morpheme retains the primary stress).\n\nTaos has three tones:\n\n\nThe tonal system is however marginal. Trager describes the tones as being distinguished by pitch differences. The mid tone is by the most commonly occurring tone; high tone is limited to a few stems and suffixes; the low tone is relatively common in stem syllables. The high tone is described as \"higher and sharper\" than the mid tone while the low tone is \"distinctly lower and drawling\". Many words are distinguished solely by tonal differences as in the following minimal pairs which demonstrate the contrast between the mid tone and the low tone in stressed syllables:\n\nThere is no tonal contrast in unstressed syllables, which have only phonetic mid tones. Thus, the word ('plum') has the unstressed syllables and which have phonetic mid tones resulting in a phonetic form of .\n\nTrager (1946) initially found the stress level to be predictable in syllables with high and low tones; however, Trager (1948) finds this to be in error with the addition of newly collected data and a different theoretical outlook. (See stress section above.)\n\nIn his final historical notes, Trager (1946) suggests that in proto-Taos (or in proto-Tiwa) there may originally have been only a stress system and a contrast of vowel length which later developed into the present tonal-stress system and lost the vowel length contrasts.\n\nThe simplest syllable in Taos consists of a single consonant in the onset (i.e. beginning consonant) followed by a single vowel nucleus, i.e. a CV syllable. An onset and nucleus are obligatory in every syllable. Complex onsets consisting of a two-consonant cluster (CC) are found only in loanwords borrowed from New Mexican Spanish. The nucleus can have optionally two vowels in vowel clusters (V or VV). The syllable coda (i.e. the final consonants) is optional and can consist of up to two consonants (C or CC). In other words, the following are possible syllable types in Taos: CV, CVV, CVC, CVVC, CVCC (and in loanwords also: CCV, CCVV, CCVC, CCVVC, CCVCC, CCVVCC). This can be succinctly represented in the following (where optional segments are enclosed in parentheses):\n\nAdditionally, every syllable has a tone associated with it. The number of possible syllables occurring in Taos is greatly limited by a number of phonotactic constraints.\n\nA further point concerns Trager's analysis of Taos coda syllables: CC clusters occurring in codas are only possible as a result of vowel elision, which is often apocope. For example, ('why') has a CV.CVC.CV syllable structure, but after the elision of the final the resulting has a CV.CVCC structure with a CC cluster in the coda of the last syllable.\n\nA single onset C1 can be filled by any Taos consonant (except the borrowed ) — that is, are possible onsets. The onset , and the onsets word-initially, are only found in Spanish borrowings. In a loanword two-consonant C1C<2 cluster, C can be filled only by voiceless stops while C2 can be filled only by in the following combinations:\n\nOf the onsets, can only occur as onsets (and not as codas).\n\nWithin the syllable rime, any single Taos vowel — — may occur in the nucleus. In complex nuclei consisting of vowel clusters, the following combinations are possible:\n\nThe cluster was found only in a single word ('frying pan' from hypothetical Spanish \"*puela\" probably from French \"poêle\").\n\nA subset of Taos consonants consisting of voiced stops and sonorants — — can occur in coda C position. There is a restriction that high vowels cannot be followed by a homorganic glide (i.e., do not occur). Not all VC combinations are attested. The attested sequences of V + glide are listed in the vowel diphthong section above. Additionally, may appear in coda position in loanwords.\n\nIn complex two-consonant CC codas, Trager (1946) states that the final consonant C can consist of a voiced stop and be preceded by a consonant C consisting of a non-liquid sonorant . However, Trager (1948) states that the following are the only attested coda clusters:\n\nTrager does not discuss the combinatory possibilities between segments and tones, although he does for stress and tone.\n\nTrager (1944) indicates the type of phonetic/phonological changes that New Mexican Spanish loanwords undergo when being adapted to the Taos language. Different degrees of nativization occur in Spanish loanwords: earlier borrowings have greater differences while later borrowings (borrowed by speakers who are probably increasingly bilingual) have much greater similarity with the Spanish forms. The chart below lists some of the correspondences. The inflected nouns in the table are in the absolute singular form with the inflectional suffix and any reduplicant separated from the initial noun stem with hyphens.\n\nAlthough NM Spanish is usually borrowed as Taos , it is nativized as when it precedes the Taos glide , which is the nativization of NM Spanish in the cluster ( > Taos ). Because Taos when followed by is typically raised (i.e. is phonetically ), Taos is phonetically a closer match to NM Spanish low . Thus, NM Spanish \"compadre\" is borrowed as ('one's child's godfather' absolute) (with > ).\n\nTaos is a better match than for NM Spanish (phonetically ) because Taos is restricted to affixes in native Taos words.\n\nAnother common process is the insertion of after in New Mexican Spanish words ending in , as native words in Taos cannot have syllables ending in .\n\nThe other NM Spanish phonemes are nativized as similar phonemes in Taos:\nNM Spanish > Taos ,\nNM Spanish > Taos ,\nNM Spanish > Taos (but see above for NM Spanish sequence ),\nNM Spanish > Taos ,\nNM Spanish > Taos ,\nNM Spanish > Taos ,\nNM Spanish > Taos ,\nNM Spanish > Taos .\n\nLater borrowing, which has been subject to less alteration, has led to the development of , word‑initial voiced stops , syllable‑final , and consonants clusters . The word‑internal cluster is reduced to in Taos, as in NM Spanish \"maestro\" > Taos ('teacher') — the cluster was reduced further to just as in one speaker, a reflection of the older pattern where cannot be syllable‑final.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38566488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38566488", "title": "Trademark look", "text": "Trademark look\n\nTrademark look or signature look is the characteristic clothes or other distinguishing signs used by a certain character or performer, making the person more recognizable by the audience. Politicians may also have trademark signs, such as the suit of American President Barack Obama or the Merkel-Raute of German Chancellor Angela Merkel. It can also refer to the clothes of a certain subculture.\n\nSometimes, when a celebrity stops using a trademark look, people might even find it hard to recognise them.\n\nThe term is not used in trademark law and a trademark look is not necessarily trademark protected in itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "2358399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2358399", "title": "Upholstery frame", "text": "Upholstery frame\n\nIn furniture-making, the upholstery frame of a piece of furniture gives the structural support and determines the basic shape of the upholstered furniture. The frame may be a basic piece of wooden furniture prior to its being upholstered. Like a finished piece of furniture prior to the upholstering, the frame establishes the final quality, including its durability, and sets limits upon the final design, padding, cushioning, or cover. \n\nFrames are made variously of solid wood, engineered wood products, a variety of polymers and metals, or a mixture of these.\nSolid wood for upholstery frames may be of various kinds, including hardwoods and softwoods. The type of wood depends upon the final piece, including function, style, and quality. Where parts of the frame are visible afterwards, wood grades and species may be mixed.\n\nHardwood destined for upholstery frames is primarily air-dried. Hardwood frames for high-end furniture are often constructed from kiln-dried mixed hardwoods. Beech, birch, white ash, and mahogany all have acceptable combinations of strength, availability (country dependent), workability, and cost to be superior wood products for frame making. White oak, red oak, and American elm are good, and hard maple is an acceptable framing wood. Softwoods can make poor frames, but are used in low end furniture manufacturing, particularly with partially upholstered frames on larger pieces in the United States. In Scandinavia, better quality softwoods are available and are used with suitable furniture making and upholstery techniques that their use is more common in furniture of a variety of qualities.\n\nEngineered wood products can be stronger than hardwood because layering methods increase the strength. They are sometimes used just at critical stress areas when maximum strength is needed. Modern furniture making, however, tends to rely upon a combination of engineered woods and solid woods in frame making. Engineered wood products commonly used in furniture making include plywood, hardboard, millboard, chipboard, and medium-density fiberboard. Upholstery itself is often applied with staples, and so metal frames will typically have a plywood panel inserted into them as a backer for the upholstery and to allow these staples to be pinned into it.\n\nSince lumber costs increase rapidly with increasing board thickness, some manufacturers may hold down frame costs by skimping at the precise point where ample strength is most important. The engineering principle involved is that strength varies directly with rail width and with the cube of thickness. If we assume that a certain 1\" x 1\" beam will sustain a load of 100 pounds, then a beam 1\" thick and 2\" wide will sustain 200 pounds. An old rule of thumb suggests that rails of 3\" or more in width should be 1 1/8\" thick, while rails less than 3\" wide should exceed 11/8\" in thickness.\n\nWooden frame joints are often double doweled, which means that round wooden pegs are fitted into holes in two adjacent frame sections and glued. Epoxy coated staples and gang nails are also commonly used. The gang nail is a metal plate with saw teeth, which immobilizes the joint when it is pressed into the wood with a hydraulic press. Major joints need the additional support of corner blocks, which should be glued and screwed into place.\n"}
{"id": "25457473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25457473", "title": "Women and smoking", "text": "Women and smoking\n\nWith gender-targeted marketing, including packaging and slogans (especially \"slimmer\" and \"lighter\" cigarettes), and promotion of women smoking in movies and popular TV shows, the tobacco industry was able to increase the percent of women smoking. In the 1980s, tobacco industries were made to have the surgeon general's warning printed on each packaging of the tobacco products. This slowed the rate of women smoking but later slightly increased after the advertisements started to look more present day and more appealing packaging, that appealed to the younger generation. In more recent times, cigarette smoking has been banned from public places and will continue to help decrease smoking rates in the United States. Cigarette smoking has serious health effects. \nIn 2010 in Gaza, a ban on women smoking in public places was implemented. \nIn the General Health Effects and the Effects for female sections, the article gives specific statistics on the health effects on women and in general. \nAs far as the future, smoking levels continue to decline in the developed world and increasing in the developing world.\n\nThe cigarette industry began a strong marketing campaign geared toward women beginning in the 1920s in the United States. These campaigns became more aggressive as time has progressed and marketing in general became more prominent. The practice of marketing aimed exclusively at women has continued into the present day and has now expanded globally.\n\nIn 1911, the Sherman Anti-Trust Act divided the American Tobacco Trust into several different companies, making market share critical to each company's survival. The resulting competition spurred innovations in both product and marketing, and eventually progressed to the idea of brands. By 1915, Reynolds’ Camel had become the first truly national brand. Soon to follow were Liggett & Myers’ Chesterfield and the American Tobacco Company’s Lucky Strike. These brands were modern and appealed to the modern sensibilities that were taking over the people of the United States at the time.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, the anti-tobacco movement was aimed primarily at women and children. Smoking was considered a dirty habit and smoking by women was seriously frowned upon by society. As the century progressed so did women’s desire for equality. The suffrage movement gave many women a sense of entitlement and freedom and the tobacco industry took advantage of the marketing opportunity. Tobacco companies began marketing cigarettes to appeal to women during the burgeoning women’s movement of the 1920s. The American Tobacco Company began targeting women with its ads for Lucky Strikes. Lucky Strike sought to give women the reasons they should be smoking Luckies. They employed ads featuring prominent women, such as Amelia Earhart, and appealed to the vanity of women by promising slimming effects. Most of the ads also conveyed a carefree and confident image of women that would appeal to the modern woman of the 1920s. The ads grew more extravagant with paid celebrity testimonials and far-reaching claims of how Lucky Strikes could improve your life. Their most aggressive campaign directly challenged the candy industry by urging women to “reach for a Lucky instead of a sweet.” These aggressive campaigns paid off making Lucky Strike the most smoked brand within a decade.\nOther companies followed the successful ad campaigns of the American Tobacco Company with their own versions. The Phillip Morris Company introduced Marlboro cigarettes in 1925. Marlboros were advertised as being as \"mild as May\" and featured elegant ivory tips that appealed to women. Other brands offered similar ads appealing to a woman's sense of beauty and style and made cigarettes an alluring part of many women's lives. The ads linking vanity and beauty were quite women specific and did exactly what they were supposed to do. Fear of weight gain remains a chief reason women continue to smoke. The ad campaigns successfully promoted cigarettes as a product possessing specific qualities including equality, autonomy, glamour, and beauty.\n\nIn a content analysis of North American and British editions of \"Vogue\", Cheryl Krasnick Warsh and Penny Tinkler trace representations of women smokers from the 1920s through the 1960s, concluding that the magazine \"located the cigarette within the culture of the feminine elite,\" associating it with \"the constellation of behaviours and appearances presented as desirable characteristics of elitism, through the themes of lifestyle, “the look,” and feminine confidence.\"\n\nThe late 1950s and early 1960s brought about a new onslaught of cigarette brands. Each new brand of cigarette introduced during this time advertised its unique benefits. The major new innovation in tobacco marketing was the filtered cigarette. Filters made cigarettes less harsh to smoke and offered the appearance of removing potentially harmful particles. The 1950s began the rebranding of Marlboros from an elite cigarette to an everyman’s cigarette and also saw the introduction of strong Marlboro men, such as athletes, and more famously cowboys. This change in Marlboro branding meant Philip Morris was lacking a cigarette aimed at women.\nThe 1950s also began a boom in advertising for tobacco companies. Ads featuring prominent movie and television stars became commonplace and tobacco companies also began sponsoring television shows, game shows, and other widespread media. One of the most popular was Philip Morris's sponsorship of the \"I Love Lucy\" show. The opener featured the two stars of the show with a giant pack of Philip Morris cigarettes. The show \"Your Hit Parade\" was proudly sponsored by American Tobacco's Lucky Strike brand.\nIn 1965, it was reported that 33.9% of women were smoking. Virginia Slims came on the market in 1968, and used the catch phrase “You’ve come a long way baby.” This was the first cigarette to be marketed solely as a woman's cigarette. The cigarettes were longer, slimmer, and overall more elegant and feminine. The ads depicted photos of glamorous women set against photos of women doing mundane tasks such as laundry or housework. 1970 saw the release of Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company's entry into women specific cigarettes, Eve. Eve cigarettes were decidedly more feminine than Virginia Slims. Eve featured flowers or other feminine motifs on both the packaging and the cigarette themselves.\nThe 1970s ushered in the end of television advertising and the beginning of print ads carrying health warnings regarding the dangers of smoking. The 1970s also brought nearly annual reports from the Surgeon General’s office regarding the health consequences of smoking. In 1970, a reported 31.5% of women were smokers. Tobacco companies were barred from advertising on television, but smartly moved the market focus to sponsoring sporting and entertainment events. In 1973, a widely publicized tennis match dubbed “The Battle of the Sexes” featured Billie Jean King, a long-time spokesperson for Virginia Slims, bedecked in the brand's sequins and colors. American was tennis wild in the 1970s and Billie Jean King was a superstar. Virginia Slims sponsored the Women's Tennis Association Tour for close to twenty years. The 1970s ended with filtered cigarettes almost completely overtaking the market.\n\nThe 1980s began with the first Surgeon General's Report on the Health Consequences of Smoking for Women. This report—published nearly 15 years after the original —came nearly sixty years after tobacco companies began marketing their products to women. The smoking rate of women in 1980 was at 29.3%. In 1987, Brown & Williamson introduced the Capri cigarette, which following suit with other feminine cigarettes was a long, slim, elegant cigarette geared toward feminine hands.\n1990 saw the women's smoking rate at 22.8%, continuing its slow decline. The Virginia Slims tennis tour came to an end in 1994, after 23 successful years. This was just one of many broad spectrum advertising methods that ended in the 1980s and 1990s as public sentiments regarding smoking began their shift. The 1990s were marked by continued restrictions on smoking in public and workplaces. The late 1980s and 1990s were also marked by increased marketing to teenagers and young adults. Many of the same marketing strategies used with women were used with this target group. By 1998, the women's smoking rate had dropped to 22%. 1998 also marked the year of the Master Settlement Agreement.\nThe beginning of the 21st century saw women smoking at a rate of 22.8%, which was a slight increase compared to the previous decade. Advertising and marketing remained static after the 1998 Settlement Agreement. Advertising campaigns looked to present more modern and cutting-edge packaging and language, appealing to a younger and hipper demographic. In 2001, the most recent Surgeon General's Report in regards to women and smoking was released. RJ Reynolds entered the women's market in 2007, with its Camel No. 9 cigarette. The packaging is very contemporary in feel, and very feminine at the same time. It features pink edging as a distinct contrast on the black packaging and the interior of the package is lined in pink foil. The cigarettes are sold in light and menthol light varieties, with the latter featuring a teal highlight and foil, instead of the pink of the regular lights. The first decade of this century has also been marked by mass smoking regulations. A multitude of cities, municipalities, and states have passed legislation prohibiting smoking in public places, such as bars, restaurants, and an assortment of other public venues. This is a growing phenomenon, which will help to reduce smoking rates in the United States. The overall smoking rate in the United States has dropped from approximately 46% in 1950 to approximately 21% in 2004.\n\nIn Edo period or earlier than it, tobacco had come to Japan. were the main smokers among Japanese women by the early 19th century.\n\nIn 2010 the Hamas-led Islamist government of Gaza imposed a ban on women smoking the popular nargilas in public. A spokesman for the Interior Ministry explained that \"It is inappropriate for a woman to sit cross-legged and smoke in public. It harms the image of our people.\" The ban was soon lifted and women returned to smoking in popular venues like the cafe of Gaza's Crazy Water Park. The park was burned down by masked men in September 2010, after being closed by the Hamas. The Committee for the Propagation of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice (Gaza Strip) has arrested women for smoking in public.\n\nAccording to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, cigarette smoking is the leading cause of preventable death in the United States and produces substantial health-related economic costs to society.” During the time between 1995 and 1999, smoking resulted in approximately 440,000 premature deaths per year and about $157 billion in “health-related economic losses.” Smoking has been known to increase to the risks of, and has been linked to, a plethora of adverse health effects. For instance, “Cigarette smoking accounts for about one-third of all cancers, including 90 percent of lung cancer cases. [Smoking also] causes lung diseases such as chronic bronchitis and emphysema, [it] increase the risk of heart disease, including stroke, heart attack, vascular disease, and aneurysm.” According to the Surgeon General's Report of 2004, titled “The Health Consequences of Smoking,” other consequences of smoking include increased risk of cataracts, lowered levels of antioxidants, especially vitamin C, heightened inflammation, and periodontitis.\n\nIn the United States, although general rates of smoking are declining – “24.1% in 1998 to 20.6% in 2008,” and there are higher rates among men – the gendered health consequences illustrate that women are at a greater disadvantage. “In 2008, smoking prevalence was higher among men (23%) than women (18.3%),” however that gender gap appears to be narrowing. \nPrior to recent increasing smoking rates, women usually experienced different effects of smoking compared to men. For instance, a decrease in lifetime expectancy is greater for female smokers when compared to male smokers. On average, while an adult male loses 13.2 years due to smoking, an adult female smoker loses 14.5 years of life. This decreased life expectancy for male smokers mirrors the gender differences in life expectancy overall. However, when it comes to smokers in particular, males tend to smoke more heavily than women do. Yet still women continue to show more deleterious results. \nAs it has been previously mentioned, smoking is attributable to the majority of lung cancer cases. Over the years lung cancer mortality has dramatically increased among women. “In 1987, lung cancer surpassed breast cancer to become the leading cause of cancer death among U.S. women.” Smoking now accounts for 80% of lung cancer deaths specifically among women. Although, there has been a more pronounced campaign to raise funds for breast cancer research and a possible cure, more women are dying from lung cancer. Research also continues to question whether women tend to be more susceptible to lung cancer, regardless of similar exposure as their male counterparts. However, making a definitive answer has been difficult, thus the issue remains controversial. In looking at other aspects of the respiratory system, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is another major issue among women who smoke. The risk of having COPD is increased with amount and duration and smoking accounts for 90 percent of COPD mortalities.\nThe effects of smoking on women's cardiovascular health begin to show more sex differences. Heart diseases continue to be the leading cause of death nationwide, and one of the risk factors is smoking. Unique to women, smoking lowers their estrogen and their high-density lipoproteins that prevent arteries from blockage. For many women the effects of smoking on the heart's health truly become obvious later on in life. Among current female smokers, “the chance of dying from heart disease or lung cancer exceeds the chance of dying from breast cancer from 40 on (and does so by at least a factor of 5 after age 55).” The habit becomes particularly crucial when women are also taking birth control because these two in concert increases, even more so, women's chances of having a stroke or a heart attack. \nWhen observing older women, research has illustrated that those who are smoking in their postmenopausal stages tend to have a lower bone density along with more hip fractures when compared to their non-smoker counterparts. For the younger cohort of women, during their reproductive stages, smoking affects their reproductive health as well as pregnancy outcomes. Research has revealed that smoking does make it more difficult for women to conceive and it can also result in infertility. Women who smoke while they are pregnant increase their chances of having an early delivery and low-birth weight babies. One of the many serious effects on the fetus itself is Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). Studies have shown that “infants of mothers who smoke during and after pregnancy are 3 to 4 times more likely to die from sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) than babies to non-smoking mothers.\n\nAs smoking levels decline in the developed world they are increasing in the developing world. The major cigarette manufacturers have more than tripled the number of cigarettes exported in the last 35 years. Tobacco companies are using similar strategies to attract women in other countries that they used in the early days of attracting American women. Offering appealing ads that depict cigarettes as modern, empowering, and liberating draws in women smokers who make every effort to be as western as possible. The smoking bans occurring in the United States are happening around the globe. In other countries (as in the United States), tobacco manufacturers circumvent advertising restrictions by sponsoring events, retail endorsements, and advertising in alternative markets such as satellite television channels. These methods have proven quite successful for the tobacco industry. Overwhelmingly, in the global market the trends point toward the market becoming increasingly female in the future, but only time will tell for sure.\n\nWhen discussing smoking among females it is crucial to also take into account the fact that smoking, and tobacco use in general, is a global issue that is not confined to the borders of the Western world. The World Health Organization (WHO) notes the stark difference between women in various geographic locations as it states that “[a]bout 22 percent of women in developed countries and 9 percent of women in developing countries smoke tobacco.” However, numerically the number of women could be more in developing countries. \nIn his article, Fred C. Pampel looks into why these differences may exist and suggests reasons pertaining to gender equality, cigarette diffusion, economic factors and smoking policies. For women in countries where traditional gender roles had been changed, it becomes more socially acceptable for women to initiate smoking. However, this evidence should not hinder a deeper look into the smoking among women in developed countries. \nAnd, as the rates of smoking among people in developed countries are on a slow decline, smoking rates among middle and low-income countries are increasing. particularly affects women within developing regions because they are most at risk when male cigarette use is high. Recent statistics show that about 70% of tobacco users live in developing countries, and about half of the men in these countries are smokers. Although women are not mainly the ones to smoke, they are still exposed to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS). When among men who smoke, the risks of passive smoking increase for women whether they are at home or at work. When referring back to the gender-specific effects of smoking on women, we know that smoking and second-hand smoke not only affects the female body but had detrimental results on the health of their children. This issue is compounded in developing nations that may already have limited medical care for women. \nA particular study that focused on pregnant women in a few Latin American and African countries, India and Pakistan, it was shown that “[w]omen in Latin America had the highest level of tobacco use.” The probability of living with a tobacco user was also high in Latin America but highest in Asia. Specific countries such as Argentina and Uruguay had the highest percentages of women who were once regular smokers, who had smoked during their current pregnancy and who thought it was acceptable for women to smoke. \nAs we continue to look at the Latin American region, we can see that one-fifth of the world’s largest tobacco producers are in this region, which includes Argentina and Brazil. With such increased production in these countries, the prices of cigarettes become significantly lowered. In these two latter countries, a pack of premium cigarettes such as the Marlboro brand can cost between US$1 and US$1.99. With these prices, cigarette accessibility is easier and consumption is encouraged. This has serious implications for the population as whole. The smoking rates among women alone are also a point of concern. In Argentina, 22.6% of the women smoke, while in other countries such as Uruguay the percentage is 25.1 percent. \nAs the rate of tobacco use among men is predicted to decrease, the rate among women is estimated to rise to 20% of the woman population by 2025. A major catalyst for this increase in smoking among women is globalization because it allows for the increase in the marketing of tobacco products to middle and low-income areas. In their efforts to expand their markets, multinational tobacco companies are paying particular attention to women. The advertisements tend to include words such as ‘menthol’, ‘mild’ and ‘light,’ and seek out women through “alluring marketing campaigns, linking smoking with emancipation and glamour.” Consequently, the rates of tobacco use among women in regions such as Asia, Africa and Latin America have begun to increase. The lack of strict tobacco control policies in developing countries sets up an environment where little to no advertising restrictions and taxation are not in place to buffer the impending increase in smoking among women. What puts women in developing regions at an even greater disadvantage is the significant shift in tobacco production to their areas, where they are mainly involved in the harvesting.\nWith all these influences, cessation can be very difficult for women. There has been research surrounding this topic among many developed nations in order to explore and find the most successful methods, even for women. Many of these studies have expressed that women who attempt to quit on their own “were less likely to quit initially or to remain abstinent at follow up.” When speaking of women in developing countries however, they would experience added barriers due to their low-income status. While women in the developed countries have cessation programs available, not many programs are available to women in developing countries. The latter group of women could significantly benefit from educational programs that teach of the adverse effects of smoking on their health as well as the health of their children. Although these programs may not be set in place in the various areas they are most needed, several organizations have made an effort to draw smoking among women to the public's attention. For instance, the World Health Organization (WHO) published \"The Tobacco Atlas\" which is helpful in showing the scope of the issue among women on a worldwide scale. This organization has also negotiated the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control which is a treaty supported by 164 Parties and was done “in response to the globalization of the tobacco epidemic.” This initiative has been particular about pointing out how women are also being affected. In sum, when looking at smoking among women beyond the boundaries of the Western world, the full scope of the issue comes into view.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3952346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3952346", "title": "World Heritage sites by country", "text": "World Heritage sites by country\n\nAs of July 2018, there are a total of 1,092 World Heritage sites located in 167 States Parties (countries that have adhered to the World Heritage Convention), of which 845 are cultural, 209 are natural and 38 are mixed properties. The countries have been divided by the World Heritage Committee into five geographic zones: Africa, Arab States, Asia and the Pacific, Europe and North America, and Latin America and the Caribbean. The country with the largest number of sites (including sites shared with other countries) is Italy, with 54 entries. The country with the largest number of sites by itself alone (excluding sites shared with other countries) is China, with 53 entries.\n\nNote: this overview lists only countries with ten or more World Heritage sites.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13125238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13125238", "title": "Writer invariant", "text": "Writer invariant\n\nWriter invariant, also called authorial invariant or author's invariant, is a property of a text which is invariant of its author, that is, it will be similar in all texts of a given author and different in texts of different authors. It can be used to find plagiarism or discover who is real author of anonymously published text. Writer invariant is also an author's pattern of writing a letter in handwritten text recognition.\n\nWhile it is generally recognised that writer invariants exist, it is not agreed what properties of a text should be used. Among the first ones used was distribution of word lengths; other proposed invariants include average sentence length, average word length, noun, verb or adjective usage frequency, vocabulary richness, and frequency of function words, or specific function words.\n\nOf these, average sentence lengths can be very similar in works of different authors or vary significantly even within a single work; average word lengths likewise turn out to be very similar in works of different authors. Analysis of function words shows promise because they are used by authors unconsciously.\n\n"}
{"id": "44381844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44381844", "title": "Yabla", "text": "Yabla\n\nYabla Inc. is an online computer-assisted language learning (CALL) company featuring interactive videos of various difficulty levels and genres (including television dramas, music videos, animation, interviews, and grammar/vocabulary lessons). Yabla is currently available in Spanish, French, Italian, German, Mandarin Chinese, and English. Based in New York, NY, Yabla was incorporated in 2001 and began accepting subscribers to its French and Spanish sites in 2005. Its customer base is mainly composed of native English speakers from the United States, Canada, Great Britain, and Australia.\n\nThe interactive Yabla video player includes dual-language captions that can be independently displayed or hidden according to the user’s preference. Users can also click on a word in the captions to view its definition in an integrated dictionary tool and add it to a list of flashcards. The Yabla player also includes pitch-corrected slow play, which allows users to slow down the speech in each caption. A vocabulary review exercise and a cloze-based listening game provide further opportunities for user interaction.\n\nYabla videos feature native speakers and the majority are licensed from third parties, such as Telefe in Argentina, RAI in Italy, and RheinmainzTV in Germany, with additional videos produced by the company. All licensed material features authentic content, or content that is produced specifically for native speakers. Yabla’s interactive, multimodal features act as “mediators” between the user and the native speakers in the videos, thus offering an immersive approach to language learning. The Yabla player was the first of its kind in the CALL field to offer mediated, user-controlled access to authentic content.\n\nYabla offers a subscription-based service geared toward individuals, high schools, universities, and other organizations. Yabla subscribers have included such institutions as the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. State Department, and the University of Michigan. Institutions have the option of tailoring Yabla features and content to their specific needs. Recently, Yabla supplied videos and technology to the McGraw-Hill university Spanish textbook \"Dos Mundos.\"\n\nA study on LoMásTv (the former name of the Yabla Spanish site) was conducted by Cristina Pardo-Ballester of Iowa State University, focusing on the use of the website in the university’s intermediate Spanish courses.\n"}
