{"id": "30371396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30371396", "title": "Al-Mu'ayyad Yahya", "text": "Al-Mu'ayyad Yahya\n\nAl-Mu'ayyad Yahya (October 15, 1270 – 1346) was an imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen whose tenure of the imamate lasted from 1328 to 1346.\n\nYahya bin Hamza was a member of the Zaidi elite, but not of the dynasty of the Rassids that usually provided imams. He was a 13th-generation descendant of imam Ali ar-Ridha (d. 818). The old Yemeni imam al-Mahdi Muhammad bin al-Mutahhar had conquered large highland territories from the Rasulid Dynasty, including the commercially and politically important city San'a. After his demise in 1328, no less than four claimants for the imamate surfaced. Apart from Yahya, these included an-Nasir Ali bin Salah, Ahmad bin Ali al-Fathi, and the deceased imam's son al-Wathiq al-Mutahhar. Yahya emerged as the supreme figure and quickly secured San'a. With the city as his base, he waged war in the following years against Taiyabi Ismaili groups of the Hamdan tribe in the Wadi Dahr. The Rasulids were in no position to take back their lost lands in the Yemeni highland, leaving the Zaidi positions unthreatened. The imam was a prominent scholar who authored \"Al-Intisar\", the most comprehensive Zaydiyyah law book, and \"Ad-Da'wa al-amma\", a work encouraging struggle for the true faith. It was popularly said that the number of pages he wrote were equal to the days he lived. Al-Mu'ayyad Yahya died in 1346 (or, in another account, 1349), and was buried in Dhamar. On his death, San'a was seized by two Zaidi brothers, Ibrahim bin Abdallah and Da'ud bin Abdallah, who ruled as emirs and did not claim the imam title. Their family would control San'a until 1381.\n\n"}
{"id": "59139174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59139174", "title": "Anna Davin", "text": "Anna Davin\n\nAnna Davin (born 1940) is a British academic and community historian; she is noted for her studies of working-class communities and her contributions to feminist politics and history-writing. She was a research fellow at Middlesex University.\n\nDavin was born in 1940, the daughter of Dan and Winne Davin, who both worked for Oxford University Press. In 1958, she got married and subsequently raised children, but she returned to education, studying history at the University of Warwick from 1966 to 1969, and was a founding member of the Women's Liberation Group there (1968). The experience of raising children and returning to education meant the she was \"was thinking class and gender very strongly\". In 1970, she began studying for a PhD at Birkbeck College, London. While in London, she joined the Stratford Women's Liberation Group (helping to produce its publication, \"Shrew\") and a feminist history group based in Pimlico. She also became involved in the 1970s in the History Workshop Movement; she was a founder editor of the \"History Workshop Journal\" (founded in 1976). Between 1972 and 1974, she was involved in the People's Autobiography of Hackney, an oral history project organised with the Hackney Workers' Educational Association.\n\nIn 1979, she started teaching six-week classes in history at Binghamton University, but otherwise taught evening classes in London during the 1980s. She returned to her PhD studies in the early 1990s; the doctorate was awarded in 1991 for her thesis \"Work and school for the children of London's labouring poor in the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century\". In the 1990s, Davin became a research fellow at Middlesex University and published a book, \"Growing Up Poor\" (1996).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41119845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41119845", "title": "Arab New Zealanders", "text": "Arab New Zealanders\n\nArab New Zealanders refers to people from Arab countries, particularly Lebanon, Syria, the Palestinian Territories, Iraq, and Jordan and also small groups from Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, Libya, Yemen and Sudan, who emigrated from their native nations and currently reside in New Zealand. The term also refers to descendants of diasporic Arabians such as descendants of Arab merchants to Asian nations, whose ancestral origins may be traced to merchants hailing from the Southern Arabian nations such as Yemen and Oman and the Arab nations of the Persian gulf region. Most Arab New Zealanders are of Lebanese and Iraqi descent because they were the first Arabs to arrive in New Zealand. Therefore, an Arab New Zealander is a New Zealander of Arab cultural and linguistic heritage or identity whose ancestry traces back to any of various waves of immigrants originating from one or more of the twenty-three countries comprised by the Arab world.\n\nPeople from the Arab Middle East have been migrating in numbers to New Zealand since the 1900s beginning with those from Lebanon. In 1936 there were 1,261 people of Lebanese origin in New Zealand; it has been estimated that in the early 1980s the descendants of Lebanese totalled 5,000. Many assimilated and moved to other parts of the country. In the 1890s there was a move to introduce legislation that would stop Lebanese migration and ban those already resident from peddling goods. This proved successful and few migrants arrived from Lebanon as a result.\n\nRecently Iraqis in New Zealand have replaced Lebanese, of which there are approximately 1,000 as the most common Arab Middle Eastern migrant group with more than 6,500 settling mostly in the main centres. Statistics show that nearly 15,000 Middle Eastern immigrants (including those of Persian origin) moved to New Zealand since 1997. However, New Zealanders with an ethnic Arab Middle Eastern background are likely to be greater in number, since many migrants have had children in New Zealand. Many of these migrants have entered under the humanitarian category when seeking residence in New Zealand.\n\nThe Lebanese brought with them different Christian and Muslim faiths. The three main Christian followings are Maronites, Eastern Orthodox and Melkites (Greek Catholics). The three main Muslim followings are Shia, Sunni and Druze. Many of the other Arab Middle Eastern people however follow mainly Islam, and it is thought that more than half of all migrants from the Arab Middle East are Muslim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16998949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16998949", "title": "Aramean Syriac Football Association", "text": "Aramean Syriac Football Association\n\nFootball Association Arameans Suryoye, also known as FAAS, is the name for the newly created football association for Syriacs all around the world. FAAS participated in 2008 Viva World Cup 2008 finishing in the 2nd place and will also participate in ConIFA World Football Cup 2014. The team is not affiliated with FIFA, UEFA or the AFC, and is banned in Syria.\n\n"}
{"id": "7094760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7094760", "title": "Association of Musical Artists of Serbia", "text": "Association of Musical Artists of Serbia\n\nThe Association of Musical Artists of Serbia (Serbian:\"Udruženje muzičkih umetnika Srbije\", also known as \"UMUS\") is an association which gathers together musicians from Serbia who dedicated themselves to performing classical music. \n\nThe goals of the Association include: participating in cultural and artistic activities, elevating the musical education of audiences, training the members, protecting performance copyrights, and assisting young artists in their performances. It is a non-profit organization, subsidized by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia. \"UMUS\" cooperates with the Secretariat of Culture of the City of Belgrade, as well as with institutions and individuals.\n\nThe association has organized concerts of their members, both in Belgrade (Kolarac's Legacy Concert Hall, Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra, Gallery of Frescoes, National Museum Hall, Vračar Centre of Culture, Vuk Karadžić Centre of Culture, Music School Stanković, Music School Mokranjac, Old Port Authority House in Zemun, Assembly of the City of Belgrade), and in other towns of Serbia (Kragujevac, Zaječar, Šabac, Kruševac, Trstenik, Valjevo, Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, Niš …), as well as the concert cooperation among the former federal republics and foreign countries.\n\nThe Association's members have participated in donations and humanitarian music events as performers and organizers.\n\nThe association was established on 7 April 1946 under the name \"Association of the Reproductiv Artists – Musicians of Serbia\", with 20 musicians participating. It was one of the first independent organizations of musicians in the world. \n\nAt the initiative of the \"UMUS\", in 1950 the Union of Music Artists of Yugoslavia was established.\n\nSince December 1964 the magazine called \"Pro muzika\" has been circulated. \n\nIn 1970 the \"UMUS\"' Award for the Best Musical Interpretation in the Season was established. \n\nIn 2001 the Lifetime Achievement Award and the Award to the Young Artist (under the age of 30) were established. The \"UMUS\"' awards are granted on the occasion of the Association's Day (7 April) in the cooperation with the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia.\n\nThe Association of Musical Artists of Serbia is one of sixteen institutions and organizations, which founded the Mokranjac's Legacy on 27 December 2005, the scope of which is protection and promotion of the work of Stevan Stojanovic Mokranjac both in Serbia and abroad.\n\n\n(from 2004 to 2005 the acting President was Vladimir Milić)\n\n"}
{"id": "4239670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4239670", "title": "Child labour in Botswana", "text": "Child labour in Botswana\n\nLittle is known about the nature and extent of child labour in Botswana, although recent studies have shown that the phenomenon does occur in the country.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2008 the country has been in the process of formulating the \"National Action Programme towards the Elimination of Child Labour in Botswana\", which was nationally endorsed in February 2008. This was drafted with the assistance of the International Labour Organization's (ILO) programme Towards the Elimination of the worst forms of Child Labour.\n\nA Programme Advisory Committee on Child Labour (PACC), representing government departments, organised labour and business, and civil society guides the development and implementation of the programme.\n\nThe different elements of process are described in this article.\n\nBotswana ratified the ILO Minimum Age Convention in 1997 (C138) and the ILO Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention (C182) in 2000. In addition, the country also ratified both the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child in 1995.\n\nBotswana’s Employment Act is the principal law governing employment-related matters in Botswana. It protects children against exploitation and hazardous employment, defined as any work that is dangerous to the child’s health, development and morals. The Act defines a child as a person under the age of 15 years, and a young person as a person who has attained the age of 15 years but is under the age of 18 years.\n"}
{"id": "3120533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3120533", "title": "Columbia Hospital for Women", "text": "Columbia Hospital for Women\n\nThe Columbia Hospital for Women was a hospital located in Washington, D.C. Originally opening in 1866 as a health-care facility for wives and widows of Civil War soldiers, it moved in 1870 from Thomas Circle to its later location at 2425 L Street, NW in the West End neighborhood. The Columbia became a private, non-profit hospital when President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed legislation transferring it to a board of directors in 1953. The facility closed in 2002 and the building was converted into a condominium, The Columbia Residences.\n\nAmong the more than 250,000 people born at Columbia Hospital for Women were Duke Ellington, Al Gore, Katherine Heigl and Michael Dominic.\n"}
{"id": "28564168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28564168", "title": "Crime in Guatemala", "text": "Crime in Guatemala\n\nRates of crime in Guatemala are very high. An average of 101 murders per week were reported in 2016, making the country's violent crime rate one of the highest in Latin America. In the 1990s Guatemala had four cities feature in Latin America's top ten cities by murder rate: Escuintla (165 per 100,000), Izabal (127), Santa Rosa Cuilapa (111) and Guatemala City (101). According to \"New Yorker\" magazine, in 2009, fewer civilians were reported killed in the war zone of Iraq than were shot, stabbed, or beaten to death in Guatemala, and 97% of homicides \"remain unsolved.\" Much of the violent nature of Guatemalan society stems back to a thirty-year-long civil war. However, not only has violence maintained its presence in the post-war context of the country following the Guatemalan Civil War, but it has extended to broader social and economic forms of violence.\n\nThe Guatemalan Civil War began in 1960 between the government and leftist actors, and it resulted in over 200,000 deaths. Sources cite the history of conflict in Guatemala as rendering communities accustomed to violence today, and the extension of incompetent or corrupt state institutions facilitates the impunity associated with such violence. During the civil war, the country witnessed a “generalized fear shaped by state terror and institutional violence.”\n\nMost civil war victims were Maya whose deaths were not reported to Ladino audiences via newspapers. Many of these deaths came in brutal fashions like rapes, forced abortions, and burnings. Sexual violence was strategically employed by state officials as a genocidal weapon against indigenous women. The distrust of indigenous still permeates Guatemalan culture today.\n\nThe fear of students by government takes much history into account. It was students who led the revolution in 1944 that instituted the only ten years of democracy in the twentieth century that Guatemala experienced. One school, the University of San Carlos, the state viewed with particular distrust during the civil war, because the revolutionary government during democratic period of 1944-1954 had reserved it complete autonomy. After the 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état, a majority of the 8,000 San Carlos students possessed leftist views in line with the outgoing government. Therefore, throughout the subsequent civil war, the state placed an emphasis on repressing, often disappearing, students of San Carlos.\n\nThe high rate of murder has been blamed on \"a highly powerful criminal cartel\", made up of politically connected retired military officers and linking with drug traffickers and other criminals. Following the end of Guatemalan Civil War in 1996, a general amnesty was granted \n\"for even the worst crimes, leaving no one accountable\". \nThe Guatemalan \"security apparatus — death squads, intelligence units, police officers, military counter-insurgency forces — did not disappear but, rather, mutated into criminal organizations,\" and now are engaged \"in arms trafficking, money laundering, extortion, human smuggling, black-market adoptions, and kidnapping for ransom,\" and drug trade.\n\nSome high-profile murders revealed or suspected to be the work of the cartel include that of Catholic Bishop Juan José Gerardi Conedera, beaten to death in 1998, two days after the conclusion of an inquiry he had led into the violence of the civil war. The inquiry had blamed the Guatemalan army for 90% of the war's 200,000 killings. Gerardi also found links between the military and the illegal drug trade in Guatemala, providing an additional motivation. In 1997 a large group of active military figures, including the deputy Minister of Defense, were found to be involved with the Colombian Cali cartel's smuggling efforts.\n\nKhalil Musa, a wealthy Lebanese immigrant businessman, and his daughter Marjorie Musa, were shot and killed in April 2009. Khalil Musa reportedly knew president Álvaro Colom, an advisor of whom told an American journalist that, “if the Musas could be killed, there was a sense that anyone [in Guatemala] could be.”\n\nGuatemala finds itself located in the middle of the drug supply from South America and drug demand in the United States. Guatemala links Honduras and Mexico along common drug routes between Central America and the United States. Its long, un-patrolled coastline and sparse jungles make it a popular landing point for boats and planes carrying drugs from South America, while its borders are understaffed and ill-equipped to fully exert customs controls.\n\nGreater regional efforts to crack down on narcotics trade has merely diverted the transport routes and methods used. According to the International Crisis Group, Guatemala had been “a primary landing zone for narcotics-laden flights” until U.S.-supported interdiction efforts disrupted illegal flight shipments and forced traffickers to use land routes instead. From 2006, Mexico’s crackdown on drug trafficking pushed cartel operations to import cocaine through Central America instead, and a majority of cocaine departing South America now travels through the northern regions of Central America to reach U.S. markets.\n\nThe lack of effective law enforcement following the 2009 coup also contributed to the growth of narcotics smuggling. The post-coup regime kept a majority of Guatemalan security forces in the capital, leaving regional law enforcement under-supported. Wealthy traffickers often assume the role of de facto authorities in such areas.\n\nLike other Central American countries, the closeness of Guatemala to the United States provides a natural route for human trafficking as well as arms trafficking. Guatemala is a common location of exploitation of women and children from other Latin American countries, particularly sex trafficking, while all ages and sexes suffer from systems of forced labor in the country. Frequently, human trafficking cases are linked to transnational criminal organizations, such as trafficked children used by gangs to commit illegal activities.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, Guatemala has \"weak and corrupt law enforcement institutions\".\n\nThere are reports that people, especially tourists, are victimized by criminals who are dressed in police uniforms, and who commit theft, extortion or sexual assaults.\n\nMurders are a serious problem in Guatemala: the country has one of the highest murder rates in the world, but less than 4% of murders end in conviction. Amnesty International stated in 2007 that there is a \"culture of impunity\" with regard to homicide. In 2013, there were over 6,000 violent deaths; most of these are related to local criminal gangs. According to the US Department of State, Guatemala’s high murder rate is caused by four principal factors: an increase in drug trafficking; a growing prevalence of gang-related violence; a heavily armed civilian population; and a weak and incompetent police/judicial system.\n\nSexual crimes, including child sex tourism, are common in Guatemala. Foreigners from the US, Canada and Europe participate in commercial sexual exploitation of children in Guatemala.\nAfter having received criticism for lack of adequate legislation on sexual violence, Guatemala enacted in 2009 \"Ley contra la violencia sexual, explotación y trata de personas\" (Law against Sexual Violence, Exploitation and Trafficking in Persons). However, sexual crimes against children continue; the former UN Special Rapporteur on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography, Najat Maalla M’jid, stated in 2012 that \"Many children are still victims of sexual exploitation and forced labour in Guatemala despite the laudable efforts carried out to prevent and combat the sale of children for illegal adoption.\"\nThere are about 10,000 cases of reported rape per year, but the total number is likely much higher because of under-reporting due to social stigma. According to \"Doctors without Borders\", \"Survivors [of sexual violence] are stigmatized and they cannot easily find treatment in Guatemala yet. There are no resources and too little comprehension of patients’ needs by the doctors.\"\n\nYoung males ages 15 to 24 characterize the typical perpetrators of street crime, which is committed against individuals of the same age group. Like most post-war societies, Guatemala features a very young population and higher propensity for youth violence. Youth transitions in a post-war context often become harder due to lack of funding for public education, and in the case of Guatemala, the civil war not only transferred public education funds to military expenditures, but schools and students were specifically targeted by military forces. Two key youth street gangs that operate in Guatemala and other Central American countries are the Mara Salvatrucha and 18th Street gang. Many other gangs exist however, and in fact, by just 1997 the \"Prensa Libre\" reported the presence of 53 known gangs operating just within the capitol, Guatemala City. The recent proliferation of such gangs began with the mass deportations of Los Angeles criminals to Central America, particularly El Salvador, in the mid-1990s. In 2011, UNODC reported that Guatemala had the highest number of gang members in Central America with 32,000.\n\nThe economic struggles of the country fuel participation in street violence as well. UN reports have found that in Guatemala and the other northern nations of Central America, ”stark wealth disparities provide criminals with both a justification and an opportunity for their activities.” In addition to poverty, youth in Guatemala are compelled to join gangs by fierce peer pressure, reasons of support for those with broken families, and the allure of an illicit lifestyle. The cultural difference between gangs and the rest of society and the overall intimidation of the gang image offers them considerable power. Therefore, individual gang members receive increased social capital. Guatemalan society has come to see violence as normal and inevitably linked with youth, which may prolong the passivity towards violence by leaving young people with an approach that embodies an acceptance of short-term lives. With youth largely correlated with public violence, trust and communication among community members and young people suffers. Therefore, communities leave youth socially excluded, and gangs may seemingly offer inclusion. Members of street gangs still do not constitute organized crime, but the mass incarcerations of youth gang members in Guatemala puts them in direct contact with leaders of organized crime networks who direct from prison, who assist street gangs organize and institutionalize themselves.\n\nToday, femicide is quite common in Guatemala. Women are killed at rates today in Guatemala comparable to that of the peak violent period of the civil war. From the years 2000-2010 the country saw over five thousand murders of women and girls. Femicide to an extent is a function of a historical gendered violence that the state and society permitted legally and socially throughout the 20th century. Most femicides go unsolved, showing the continuation of civil war societal features like impunity and the normalization of violence against women. Common crime violence has exacerbated the situation for women, creating a dual upsurge in both of gender-based violence and femicide in Guatemala. According to the UN, two women are murdered on average each day in Guatemala. As shown by high rates of domestic abuse, females also face more vulnerabilities of private violence while young males are threatened more by public gang violence. In just the first month of 2005, Guatemala City alone received 13,700 reports of family violence. Furthermore, many women Guatemalan immigrants to the U.S. will still face threatening situations if they are deported to their home country.\n\nWhile youth in Guatemala represent key actors of increasing violence in the country, they also remain among the most affected by the consequences of a violent society. Children commonly migrate to the United States, often to reunite with family, and to flee conditions related to crime like societal violence, abuse in the home, and social exclusion. The year of 2014 saw a surge in numbers of unaccompanied children migrants from Central America, predicted to reach 70,000 and resulting in the 2014 American immigration crisis. In a UN study on the roots of children migration from Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras, forty-eight percent of children interviewed recounted personal experiences of increased organized violence. Violent actors included drug cartels, gangs, and State sponsored actors. Additionally, twenty-three percent of the Guatemalan children interviewed noted that they had survived domestic violence by their parents or guardians.\n\n"}
{"id": "37056619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37056619", "title": "Emperor of All Russia", "text": "Emperor of All Russia\n\nThe Emperor or Empress of All Russia (, \"Imperator Vserossiyskiy\", \"Imperatritsa Vserossiyskaya\") was the absolute and later the constitutional monarch of the Russian Empire. \n\nIt was created in connection with the victory in the Great Northern War and appeared as the adaptation of the Tsar's title under the accepted system of titling in Europe. The suffix \"of All Russia\" was transformed from the previous version \"(Tsar) of All Rus'\".\n\nArticle 1 of the Fundamental Laws of the Russian Empire stated that \"the Emperor of All Russia is an autocratic and unrestricted monarch. To obey his supreme authority, not only out of fear but out of conscience as well, God himself commands\". The article points to the fact that Russia had an unrestricted monarchy.\n\nThe full title of the emperor in the 20th century (Art.37 of the Fundamental Laws) was:\n\nNicholas II abdicated in favour of his brother, Grand Duke Michael Alexandrovich, but the next day, after a nominal reign of only 18 hours, \"Emperor Michael II\" declined power, ending dynastic rule in Russia forever. \n\nSee List of leaders of Russia for the continuation of leadership.\n\nThe title of the Emperor of All Russia was introduced to Peter the Great. After the victory at the Great Northern War and signing the Treaty of Nystad, in September 1721 Senate and Synod decided to award Peter with the title of the Emperor of All Russia with the following statement: \"in the manner of the Roman Senate for the noble cause of emperors such titles publicly given them as a gift and into statues for the everlasting generations inscribed\".\n\nOn November 2, 1721 Peter I accepted the title. The Dutch Republic and Kingdom of Prussia immediately recognized the new title of the Russian Tsar, followed by the Kingdom of Sweden in 1723, the Ottoman Empire in 1739, the British Empire and the Austrian Empire in 1742, French Empire and the Spanish Empire in 1745, and finally the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1764. Since then the Russian State was referred to as the Russian Empire.\n\nOn February 16, 1722 Peter I issued the Decree of Succession by which he abolished the old custom of passing the throne to the direct descendants in the male line, but allowed the appointment of an heir through any decent person, at the will of the monarch.\n\nCoronations in the Russian Empire involved a highly developed religious ceremony in which the Emperor was crowned and invested with regalia, then anointed with chrism and formally blessed by the church to commence his reign. Although rulers of Muscovy had been crowned prior to the reign of Ivan III, their coronation rituals assumed overt Byzantine overtones as the result of the influence of Ivan's wife Sophia Paleologue, and the imperial ambitions of his grandson, Ivan IV. The modern coronation, introducing \"European-style\" elements, replaced the previous \"crowning\" ceremony and was first used for Catherine I in 1724. Since czarist Russia claimed to be the \"Third Rome\" and the replacement of Byzantium as the true Christian state, the Russian rite was designed to link its rulers and prerogatives to those of the so-called \"Second Rome\" (Constantinople).\n\nWhile months or even years could pass between the initial accession of the sovereign and the performance of this ritual, church policy held that the monarch must be anointed and crowned according to the Orthodox rite to have a successful tenure. As the church and state were essentially one in Imperial Russia, this service invested the Tsars with political legitimacy; however, this was not its only intent. It was equally perceived as conferring a genuine spiritual benefit that mystically wedded sovereign to subjects, bestowing divine authority upon the new ruler. As such, it was similar in purpose to other European coronation ceremonies from the medieval era.\n\nEven when the imperial capital was located at St. Petersburg (1713–1728, 1732–1917), Russian coronations were always held in Moscow at the Cathedral of the Dormition in the Kremlin. The last coronation service in Russia was held on 26 May 1896 for Nicholas II and his wife Alexandra Feodorovna, who would be the final Tsar and Tsaritsa of Russia. The Russian Imperial regalia survived the subsequent Russian Revolution and the Communist period, and are currently on exhibit in a museum at the Kremlin Armoury.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32231253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32231253", "title": "Ese language", "text": "Ese language\n\nEse, or Managalasi, is a language of Papua New Guinea. Dialects are Muaturaina, Chimona, Dea, Akabafa, Nami, Mesari, Averi, Afore, Minjori, Oko, Wakue, Numba, Jimuni, Karira. Perhaps 40% of speakers are monolingual.\n"}
{"id": "36106308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36106308", "title": "Ethnic groups of Japan", "text": "Ethnic groups of Japan\n\nThough it is said that Ethnic Japanese make up 98.5% of the total population and that the rest are Koreans 0.5%, Chinese 0.4%, other 0.6%, in fact these numbers are not known. The Ministry of Justice in Japan conflates nationality with ethnicity, and they have no official data on the actual ethnic breakdown of people in Japan.\n\nAbout 1.6% of Japan's total legal resident population are foreign citizens. Of these, according to 2012 data from the Japanese government, the principal groups are as follows.\n\nThe above statistics do not include the approximately 30,000 U.S. military stationed in Japan, nor do they account for illegal aliens. The statistics also do not take into account minority groups who are Japanese citizens such as the Ainu (an aboriginal people primarily living in Hokkaido), the Ryukyuans (from the Ryukyu Islands south of mainland Japan), naturalized citizens from backgrounds including but not limited to Korean and Chinese, and citizen descendants of immigrants. The total legal resident population of 2012 is estimated at 127.6 million.\n\nFilipinos in Japan formed a population of 202,592 individuals at year-end 2007, making them Japan's third-largest foreign community along with Brazilians, according to the statistics of the Ministry of Justice. In 2006, Japanese/Filipino marriages were the most frequent of all international marriages in Japan. As of March 12, 2011, the Filipino population of Japan was 305,972.\n\nKoreans in Japan are the fifth largest ethnic minorities in the country. Most of them arrived in the early 20th century.\n\nAs of 2012, there are 530,421 Koreans in Japan who are not Japanese citizens.\n\nChinese people in Japan are the one of the largest ethnic minority in Japan. They comprise 0.52% of Japan's population. Chinese people are mostly concentrated in Osaka, Tokyo, and Yokohama areas.\n\nThe Ainu is an aboriginal ethnic Japanese tribe that make up a portion of the Japanese demography\n\nThere is a significant community of Brazilians in Japan, which is home to the second largest Brazilian community outside of Brazil. They also constitute the largest number of Portuguese speakers in Asia, even greater than those of formerly Portuguese East Timor, Macao and Goa combined. Likewise, Brazil maintains its status as home to the largest Japanese community outside of Japan.\n\nMore than 300,000 Vietnamese is living in Japan by October 2018.\n"}
{"id": "3175994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3175994", "title": "Fictionmania", "text": "Fictionmania\n\nFictionmania is a website dedicated to publishing and archiving transgender fiction. Unlike most such websites, it is free to access. It was open to submissions from any writer, provided the submitted literature \"explores gender.\" As of March 2008, Fictionmania was host to more than 15,000 story files; by Sept 2011, 3,500 more had been added.\n\nThe website found its roots in the early 1990s as a free online bulletin board known as the \"Sierra Bulletin Board,\" owned and operated by Fictionmania founder Mindy Rich. By the mid 1990s, the bulletin board had largely been usurped by the newsgroup alt.sex.stories.tg (see alt.sex.stories). By this point, the archive had grown from dozens to a few hundred pieces of fiction.\n\nWith the advent of spam in newsgroups, writers of transgender fiction began founding electronic mailing lists and websites to share material while avoiding unwelcome spammers. In 1996, Mindy Rich created the \"Maniapages\" listserve and expanded the concept from gender transformation stories to any fiction exploring gender. In late 1997, Rich laid the groundwork to transform Maniapages from a listserve into a website, officially launching Fictionmania in February 1998. The number of archived stories quickly exploded from hundreds to thousands.\n\nIn December 1999, Rich temporarily shut down Fictionmania due to illness and a frustration with flaming on the website's hyperboard. A number of writers volunteered to take up webmaster duties for her and resurrected Fictionmania, after assuring Rich that the site's operations, policy, and focus would remain largely unchanged. The volunteers (calling themselves the Fictionmania Task Force) have since continued to operate the website free of charge. The Task Force also edits and uploads new submissions.\n\nIn 2008, the explicit nature of some content on the site led to its blacklisting by certain filtering systems. There may have been certain ISPs that completely blocked access to Fictionmania because of pornographic content.\n\nFrom November 2008 until May 2009 the site was down due to a server failure. It is now back online, effective 1 June 2009, initially employing a different URL.\n\nOn February 10, 2010 Fictionmania's server was disconnected without explanation by its service provider. It, however, returned online on February 12, 2010 with a statement that the story files at the center of a recent controversy had been removed.\n\nThe majority of Fictionmania's archives consist of short story fantasies depicting characters being transformed from one sex to the other. Other stories, however, explore cross-dressing or feminization through malice or blackmail. Helen Boyd described a typical plot as involving a man being feminized by his wife or girlfriend, commonly as punishment; the wife then forces the man to go out in public dressed as a woman, sometimes double-dating with his wife/girlfriend and two men, and the stories often end with the cross-dresser giving a blowjob to a man. However, there are many different types of stories including Science Fiction and Magic plots, and many stories have little or no explicit sexual content.\n\nFictionmania also publishes poetry, lyrics, plays, essays, autobiographical pieces, romance, humor, satire, parody, science fiction, horror, etc. A great many stories are also part of shared universes: both fan fiction based on pop culture (TV shows, movies, comic books, etc.) and unique fictional universes invented by Fictionmania authors. Great concern has been raised over pop culture stories violating copyright laws because they are derivative works without authorisation from a copyright owner.\n\nStories published by the site, are rated for content according to a system similar to the MPAA film rating system. Content on Fictionmania ranges from G-rated to R-rated to X-rated, with some intermediary ratings as well. Some stories have no overt erotic component, e.g. one story about World War II pilots forced to hide in a nunnery and dress up as a nun; the only erotic element in these is the detailed description of female clothing and beauty regimen.\n\nTopics are not limited to fantasy sex change, but can also explore: cross-dressing, real-life sex reassignment surgery, transitioning, androgyny, effeminacy, gender identity, role reversal and atypical gender roles, as well as societal attitudes towards gender roles. Authors may be professional or amateur, but their works must \"explore the meaning of gender.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2752697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2752697", "title": "Gadaa", "text": "Gadaa\n\nGadaa (older spelling: Gada) is the traditional social stratification system of Oromos in Ethiopia and northern Kenya; it is also practiced by the Konso and Gedeo people of southern Ethiopia. Each class, or \"luba\", consists of all of the sons of the men in another particular class. The entire class progresses through eleven different grades, each based on an eight-year cycle, and each with its own set of rights and responsibilities.\n\nAs of 1990, Gadaa had active adherents only among the Borana and Guji groups near the Ethiopian-Kenyan border. Though the Gadaa system itself is no longer widely practiced, it remains influential in Oromo society at large. Historically, it has been seen as a better method of governing than other forms in the region. However, the Gadaa had all the shortcomings and problems like that of the monarchial Oromo and monarchial non-Oromo Ethiopian systems of governance. In regions where the Oromo invaded and conquered, including around the Sidama and Somali, the Gadaa system was oppressive in practice, though proclaimed as democratic and just in Oromo oral tradition. According to ethnohistorian Ulrich Braukämper, minorities and those who assimilated, like the Hadiyya, were \"considered to be of a lower social status than the 'pure' Oromo and did not possess equal rights in the Gadaa system.\"\n\nA number of scholars have studied Gadaa. Legesse has written that Gadaa is \"one of the most astonishing and instructive turns the evolution of human society has taken\". In addition to his Harvard PhD dissertation, Legesse has published a book positioning Gadaa as an African democracy that could inform constitutional thinkers. The late Donald Levine has said that Gadaa is \"one of the most complex systems of social organization ever devised by the human imagination\". For Jalata, Gadaa represents \"the totality of Oromo civilization\".\n\nConsidering the symbolic significance of Gadaa for the Oromo, as well as its structural innovations, researchers in law, indigenous studies, and pan-Africanism are exploring how the system could be utilized in the 21st century. For example, a thesis by Z. Sirna entitled \"Ethiopia: When the Gadaa Democracy Rules in a Federal State\" explores how the system could be integrated with the contemporary federal structure of Ethiopia, serving as a governance mechanism for the Oromia Regional National State. A political party known as GSAP (Gadaa System Advancement Party) bases its ideology on the principles of Gadaa. A futuristic, governance 2.0 project called BitGadaa draws inspiration from the principles and structure of Gadaa.\n\nGadaa has been criticized for being patriarchal, as it excludes women from political affairs. This, according to Legesse, is the main shortcoming of Oromo Democracy. Other shortcomings include rigidity of rules, and the question of scaling Gadaa to millions of people.\n\n"}
{"id": "529506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529506", "title": "Great Seal of the Irish Free State", "text": "Great Seal of the Irish Free State\n\nThe Great Seal of the Irish Free State () is the seal which was used to seal official documents of the Irish Free State (\"Saorstát Éireann\") by the Governor-General. The physical seal is currently on public display at National Museum of Ireland at Collins Barracks, Dublin.\n\nBoth sides of the Great Seal feature an image of the harp surrounded by the words \"SAORSTÁT ÉIREANN\" in Gaelic script. One side is engraved in silver, the other in copper.\n\nAfter the 1937 Constitution of Ireland was enacted the Seal of the President of Ireland was struck as a replacement to the Great Seal. It is substantially the same as the former Seal but features the word \"ÉIRE\" instead of \"SAORSTÁT ÉIREANN\".\n\nIn August 1922 civil servants in the Provisional Government sought Ministerial approval to adopt a seal. It was thought a seal was necessary for legal reasons. The 1921 Anglo-Irish Treaty and the draft Constitution of the Irish Free State specified that the Irish Free State would have the same constitutional status as Canada, which had its own Great Seal since its Confederation in 1867. The letters patent issued on 6 December 1922 constituting the office of Governor-General said:\nRegarding the design of the Great Seal, an approach was made by Hugh Kennedy, the Attorney General, to Thomas Sadleir, Registrar of the Office of Arms at Dublin Castle. In his reply Sadlier noted that he was \"satisfied that the harp was very early in the 12th century an Irish badge...\". George Sigerson, the President of the National Literary Society, recommended to Tim Healy, the new Governor-General, that the harp should be adopted as the symbol of the Free State. His view was that:\n\nOn 28 December 1922 a meeting of the Executive Council of the Irish Free State decided that the Celtic harp should be adopted. Later, in August 1923 the Executive Council determined that the \"Brian Ború\" harp in Trinity College, Dublin, would be the basis of the new seal. Archibald McGoogan of the Art Department of the National Museum perfected the design. Elements of the Ardagh Chalice were incorporated into the design of the Great Seal. Final authorisation was given by the Executive Council on 17 October 1924 for the provision of the various seals, including ministerial seals which had the Brian Ború harp circumscribed with \"Saorstát Éireann\" and the ministerial title in Irish and English. The rope pattern was a direct copy of the base of the Ardagh Chalice.\n\nIn 1931, a separate External Great Seal or Royal Great Seal was created to be used on diplomatic documents which required the signature of the monarch in London rather than the Governor-General in Dublin. Up to 1931, such documents had been transmitted to the Dominions Office and the British Great Seal of the Realm was applied alongside the signature. At the 1930 Imperial Conference, the Free State proposed that a Dominion should be allowed to send documents via its High Commissioner in London, bypassing the British government, and to affix its own seal rather than the British one. The conference subcommittee on seals resolved, \"The subject should be postponed on the understanding that the whole question should be left for further discussion between Governments should occasion arise\". In January 1931 the Free State government tested its proposed procedure; it applied the Free State seal to the instrument of ratification for a 1929 treaty between the Free State and Portugal, and sent it to High Commissioner John W. Dulanty to transmit to King George V. Dulanty was refused an audience, the British objecting on the grounds that the change in procedure had not been agreed. A compromise was negotiated whereby the Free State would use a separate \"external seal\" in the custody of its Minister for External Affairs. The external seal, designed by Percy Metcalfe, had on its obverse the same harp image as the Great Seal, and on its reverse the same image of the monarch enthroned as the British Great Seal of the Realm. George V formally presented the external seal to John W. Dulanty on 18 January 1932 at Sandringham House.\n\nThe External Great Seal was used only on ratifications and Full Powers, and not always on the latter. Lesser seals were used on lesser documents:\n\nThe first use of the External Great Seal was not until 1937, for ratifying the Montreux Convention Regarding the Abolition of the Capitulations in Egypt. Successive governments minimised the use of monarch and the External Great Seal. The state typically conducted bilateral agreements at inter-government level rather than the nominally more prestigious head-of-state level, so that the Minister for External Affairs would use the internal Great Seal for any documents. After signing some multilateral treaties that would have required the External Great Seal for ratification, the state chose instead to wait until the treaty had come into force and then become a party to it by accession rather than ratification, as the internal Great Seal would suffice for accession.\n\nAfter the Statute of Westminster 1931, following the Free State's lead, the Union of South Africa in 1934 and Canada in 1939 passed laws permitting themselves to use their own Great Seals for diplomatic functions.\n\nThe Constitution (Amendment No. 27) Act 1936 abolished the office of Governor-General and transferred his functions to the Executive Council, which thereafter used the internal Great Seal directly rather than advising the Governor General to use it. The Executive Authority (External Relations) Act 1936 continued the use of the External Great Seal by the King.\n\nThe 1937 Constitution of Ireland created the office of President of Ireland, and the Seal of the President was created for formal signature of official documents in the same manner as the internal Great Seal of the Irish Free State. The British monarch (now George VI) continued to sign diplomatic documents using the External Great Seal. This dichotomy reflected ambiguity over who was head of state. The Republic of Ireland Act 1948 transferred diplomatic functions to the President, rendering the External Great Seal obsolete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19039998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19039998", "title": "Henry Beveridge", "text": "Henry Beveridge\n\nHenry Beveridge (9 February 1837 – 8 November 1929) was an Indian Civil Service officer and orientalist in British India.\n\nBorn in Scotland, Beveridge studied at the Royal Circus School, Glasgow, Edinburgh Academy and Glasgow College. In 1856 he entered Queen's College, Belfast, where his father had been appointed editor of The Banner of Ulster. In July 1857 he successfully passed the public examinations for the Indian Civil Service, joining the service in 1857. He left for India in 1857 and reached Calcutta in January 1858. \n\nAfter training he was posted to Mymensingh as Assistant Magistrate and Collector and was then transferred to Jhenaidah in 1861, to Jessore in January 1862, to Nadia in April 1862, to Midnapur in January 1863, and to Sylhet in February 1863. From November 1863 he was posted for one year to the Foreign Department, serving in Manipur on special duty, after which he was sent to Kuch Behar as Joint Magistrate and Deputy Collector and then successively transferred to Dhaka, Noakhali, Hughli, Barisal, Chittagong and back to Barisal in June 1871. \n\nIn 1875 he entered the judiciary and was posted to Rangpur as District and Sessions Judge in December 1876, serving in the same capacity in the districts of Pabna, 24 Parganas, Faridpur, Birbhum, Hughli, and Murshidabad until his retirment in 1893. He was elected President of The Asiatic Society (of Bengal) for 1890–91.\n\nHe married Annette Akroyd, one of the first graduates of Bedford College and translator of Persian and Turki texts. Her known works are the translations of the Baburnama from the Turki (Turkish) language, and the Humayun-nama from Persian. The couple had two children: a daughter, Annette Jeanie Beveridge (d. 1956), who married R. H. Tawney, and a son, William Beveridge (1879–1963), a noted economist who gave his name to the report associated with the foundation of the welfare state.\n\nBeveridge retired to Pitfold, Shottermill, Surrey, England, where he devoted his time to studying and writing about India before dying in 1929.\n\nBeveridge was an atheist and \"an ardent discipline of the French positivist philosopher Auguste Comte\" and his theories of altruism and the religion of humanity.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26514103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26514103", "title": "Hingorja (community)", "text": "Hingorja (community)\n\nThe Hingorja are a Muslim community found in the state of a province of Sindh in Pakistan. They are one of a number of communities of pastoral nomads found in the Banni region of Kutch.\n\nThe Hingorja claim descent from Samma Rajputs, who were devotees of Hinglaj Mata, whose temple is situated in Hingol in Baluchistan. They were converted to Islam, about five centuries ago, and migrated to Kutch in search of pasture. The Hingorja perceive themselves to be Muslim Rajputs.\n\nThe community is concentrated in the villages of Nandi Daddar, Mota Banda and Dumcara in the taluka of Bhuj, in the Kutch District of Gujarat, and the neighbouring districts of Badin and Tharparkar in Sindh. They speak a dialect of Kutchi, with substantial Sindhi loan words. The community is endogamous, but does marry with other Samma communities, such as the Hingora. They are divided into a number of clans, the main ones being the Malwani, Jeshwani, Parian, Rebani and Kheera.\n\nThe Hingorja are a community of Maldhari cattle breeders. In addition to cattle breeding, the Hingorja are also cultivators, and landless agricultural labourers. Like other Kutchi communities, many of them have migrated to other parts of India in search of employment.\n\n"}
{"id": "13411775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13411775", "title": "Holocaust trivialization", "text": "Holocaust trivialization\n\nMany authors argue that a metaphorical (or otherwise comparative) use of the word \"Holocaust\" constitutes Holocaust trivialization, and many consider such uses offensive. In the words of Holocaust survivor and memoirist Elie Wiesel,I cannot use [the word 'Holocaust'] anymore. First, because there are no words, and also because it has become so trivialized that I cannot use it anymore. Whatever mishap occurs now, they call it 'holocaust'. I have seen it myself in television in the country in which I live. A commentator describing the defeat of a sports team, somewhere, called it a 'holocaust'. I have read in a very prestigious newspaper published in California, a description of the murder of six people, and the author called it a holocaust. So, I have no words anymore.\n\nManfred Gerstenfeld identifies trivialization and universalization of the Holocaust as one of eleven forms of Holocaust distortion. Holocaust trivialization involves the application of language that is specific to describing the Holocaust to events and purposes that are unrelated to it.\n\nOn the other hand, David Stannard argued that attempts to eliminate Holocaust comparisons belittle other events of comparable magnitude.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League has accused Gilad Atzmon of trivializing and distorting the Holocaust specifically in the context of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The ADL states that, among other abuses, Atzmon invoked the word \"Shoah\" to describe Israel's treatment of the Palestinians.\n\nThe Center for Israel and Jewish Affairs condemned the United Church of Canada for trivializing the Holocaust. According to the Center, the United Church published a document in which they placed a statement decrying the \"loss of dignity\" on the part of the Palestinians, attributed to Israel, promptly after a similar statement acknowledging \"the denial of human dignity to Jews\" in the Holocaust.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "32817447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32817447", "title": "International Association of Independent Journalists Inc.", "text": "International Association of Independent Journalists Inc.\n\nThe International Association of Independent Journalists Inc. (IAIJ) is a registered not-for-profit journalist association with offices in Toronto, Ontario, Canada and London, England. The association is international and caters to amateur (citizen journalists) and professional journalists with advocacy and support services worldwide.\n\nThe International Association of Independent Journalists was created in October 2003 by Maurice Ali who was a journalist and writer living in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. In his book \"Protest!: The Fall of Civil Disobedience,\" Maurice Ali noted the emergence of the \"citizen journalist\" and that the journalist community should be more inclusive of all types of journalists, and this same sentiment became the basis for IAIJ's constitution when incorporated as a not-for-profit corporation on February 12, 2008 (Letters Patent file number: 446727-2). This constitution of inclusion followed most closely, the policies and mandates of the U.N./UNESCO derived from Article 19 of the United Nation's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The association grew over the years, gained a second office in London, England; and on June 11, 2011 the association became an \"Institutional Member\" of the Canadian Commission for UNESCO which is located in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. On July 25, 2016 IAIJ attained Consultative Status at the United Nations.\n\nMembership of the association is in the hundreds with a Board of Directors. A general meeting is held each year at the head office in Toronto on February 12. Membership is international and support and services are dispatched through offices in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, and London, England. The association has a diploma program for self-improvement and also provides editorial material for a newspaper called \"The Fortress.\"\n\nThe association through its President (Maurice Ali) and the membership have participated in advocacy by published studies and articles on citizen journalism, attended and spoken at UNESCO and United Nations events as advocates of citizen journalism worldwide.\n\nThe International Association of Independent Journalists Inc. has an award called the \"IAIJ Award for Journalism\" and is presented to journalists who have distinguished themselves in news gathering and investigative reporting.\n"}
{"id": "39927317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39927317", "title": "Islam in association football", "text": "Islam in association football\n\nSome association football players are Muslims, and their clubs have adapted to their principles.\n\nIn July 2013, BBC journalist Rob Cowling remarked that Muslim players were changing the culture of English football. The Islamic observance of Ramadan, affects the ability of players to train and play, while some players have refused to wear football shirts sponsored by gambling and finance companies, as gambling and charging interest are forbidden in Islam.\n\nSome Muslim players have been subjected to racist abuse in the sport, and clubs which sign Muslim players have also been targeted.\n\nFootball was introduced to Iran by British oil workers and promoted under the regime of Reza Shah in the 1920s. Although both playing and watching the game have often been in conflict with religious requirements under the Islamic Republic of Iran, it continues to be popular.\n\nFootball in Palestine was introduced during the British mandate period of 1920-1948. In 2011 a women's football team called Girls FC, made-up of both Muslims and Christians, was formed. Despite religious requirements and objections at the women wearing shorts and \"playing a man's game\", the team proved to be popular.\n\nIn 2010 Iranian player Ali Karimi was sacked by his Tehran-based club Steel Azin for breaking the fast during Ramadan. Karimi was seen drinking water during a training session; he denied any insult and was reinstated by the club after agreeing to pay a $40,000 fine. In 2011 the debilitating effect on the fitness of players was noted in connection with Newcastle United player Demba Ba. Described as \"drained and lethargic\" due to fasting during Ramadan, he scored three goals in just over thirty minutes in a 3-1 win against Blackburn Rovers in his first match after Ramadan.\n\nObservance of their Islamic prayers has brought players into conflict with their managers. Harry Redknapp, when manager of West Ham United, was critical of player Frédéric Kanouté's prayer and fasting requirements.\nNewcastle United considered the introduction of prayer rooms at both St James' Park and at their training ground. Whilst not designed exclusively for Muslims, the rooms were planned to be used for prayer by Muslim players Demba Ba, Papiss Cissé, Hatem Ben Arfa and Cheik Tioté. The club pointed out that this is in marked contrast to the experiences of their former player and convert to Islam, Didier Domi, who was mocked when discovered doing Islamic prayers in the showers. By the 2012-13 season Newcastle's seven Muslim players regularly used a purpose built multi-faith training ground prayer room.\n\nSeveral players, such as Demba Ba and Papiss Cissé, choose an act of prostration with forehead to the ground as a celebration after scoring a goal. In 2012 football commentator Gary Lineker was forced to apologise after describing one such celebration by player Karim Ait-Fana for French side Montpellier against Schalke in the Champions League as \"eating grass\".\nMuslim footballers have also worn T-shirts carrying messages relating to Islam under their football shirts. Queens Park Rangers player Adel Taarabt has worn a shirt carrying the message \"I Love Allah\" whilst Samir Nasri, in 2012, celebrated a goal for Manchester City against Southampton with a shirt carrying the message \"Eid Mubarak\".\n\nIn October 2016, fans attending a World Cup qualifying game between Iran and South Korea at the Azadi Stadium in Tehran were asked to replace usual football chanting with religious chants as the match fell on a day of commemoration for Tasu'a, a Shia Islam holy day.\n\nMuslim leaders in Malaysia have called for Muslims not to wear football shirts with crosses on the badge, such as FC Barcelona and Brazil, seeing them as prioritising Christianity. They have also warned against Manchester United shirts, which feature a devil.\n\nIn 2012 Real Madrid removed a cross from their club crest on promotional material. The change was linked with the building of a $1 billion sports tourist resort in the Islamic United Arab Emirates.\n\nFrédéric Kanouté used to modify his Sevilla shirt, to obscure the sponsorship from online casino 888.com. The club later came to an agreement that the player was not endorsing gambling by wearing it, and would be excused from any promotional material with 888.\n\nIn July 2013 Newcastle United player Papiss Cissé refused to play in a shirt sponsored by Wonga.com, a payday loan company, as the charging of interest is not permitted under Islamic law. Soon after, he agreed to wear the shirt.\n\nThe requirements of Islamic dress code have been contradictory to the kit requirements of FIFA. In 2011 the Iran women's football team was prevented from playing a game in a qualifying round for the 2012 Olympic Games due to their kit which comprised full tracksuits and head coverings concealing their hair. Women in Iran are required to wear the maghnaeh to cover their heads. FIFA ruled that the kit broke one of their rules which states, \"\"Players and officials shall not display political, religious, commercial or personal messages or slogans in any language or form on their playing or team kits\".\" Although the Iranian footballing federation argued that the kit was neither religious nor political, Iran were prevented from playing the game which was awarded, 3-0 to Jordan. By 2012 FIFA had changed their ruling declaring that women were \nfree to wear the hijab at senior competitive level.\n\nThere have been numerous cases of anti-Muslim abuse aimed at Muslim footballers. In 2005 Egyptian footballer Mido whilst playing for Tottenham Hostpur was taunted by fans of West Ham United with \"Your mum's a terrorist\" and as a shoe bomber due to his likeness to Richard Reid. In 2007, Mido, then playing for Middlesbrough was taunted by Newcastle United fans with anti-Muslim abuse.\n\nIn October 2013 Muslim supporters of West Ham United were verbally abused whilst conducting Maghrib prayer in the Boleyn Ground during a Premier League game between West Ham and Manchester City. In March 2015, Muslim supporters of Liverpool were criticised and abused on social media after they had used the half-time interval to pray on prayer mats in a stairwell at Anfield during a match between Liverpool and Blackburn Rovers. Their prayers were also defended by other fans.\n\nIsraeli club Beitar Jerusalem had their offices burned by Jewish nationalists in January 2013 after signing their first Muslim players.\n\nThe 2006 film \"Offside\" deals with the subject of football, in this case in Iran, and female spectators. A ban made during the 1979 Iranian Revolution which stopped women from attending games, with Islamic religious leaders stating that women in stadiums was a recipe for disaster as they would see \"bare legs\" and hear profanities shouted by male fans. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had tried to end the ban before his attempts were vetoed by the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The film tells the stories of girls disguising themselves as males in order to watch a 2006 FIFA World Cup qualification match between Iran and Bahrain at the Azadi Stadium in Tehran. It was banned from screening in Iran.\n\n"}
{"id": "15970302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15970302", "title": "Kambaata language", "text": "Kambaata language\n\nKambaata is a Highland East Cushitic language, part of the larger Afro-Asiatic family and spoken by the Kambaata people. Dialects are Kambaata, Tambaro, Alaba, and K'abeena. It is one of the official languages of Ethiopia. The language has a large number of verbal affixes. When these are affixed to verbal roots, there are a large amount of morphophonemic changes. The language has SOV order (subject–object–verb). The phonemes of Kambaata include five vowels (which are distinctively long or short), a set of ejectives, a retroflexed implosive, and glottal stop.\n\nThe New Testament and some parts of the Old Testament have been translated into the Kambaata language. At first, they were published in the Ethiopian syllabary (New Testament in 1992), but later on, they were republished in Latin letters, in conformity with new policies and practices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33549844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33549844", "title": "Knickerbocker Yacht Club", "text": "Knickerbocker Yacht Club\n\nThe Knickerbocker Yacht Club was a yacht club in Port Washington, New York.\n\nThe club was founded in 1874, on the Harlem River at 130th Street in Manhattan, to encourage “Yachting and the cultivation of Naval Science and Seamanship”.\n\nIn 1907, it moved to Port Washington. It started the Knickerbocker Cup race in 1982, which became internationally recognized.\n\nAt its peak in the early 1980s, membership consisted of approximately 290 families with 165 boats. \n\nWorld champion runner Lon Myers began his track career running for the club. Bus Mosbacher, who skippered two winning teams in the America's Cup races, and world champion sailor Robert Mosbacher were members of the club.\n\nAs of 2009, it was the second-oldest yacht club on Long Island Sound. Due to the recession and waning membership, the club ceased to exist in 2009 and was sold for $3.2 million to Cord Meyer Development. In July 2012 demolition of the club began, the developers began on a new structure which today is the Knickerbocker Yacht Hotel designed to evoke a cruise ship. \n\n"}
{"id": "50426792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50426792", "title": "Kreeta Haapasalo Playing the Kantele in a Peasant Cottage", "text": "Kreeta Haapasalo Playing the Kantele in a Peasant Cottage\n\nKreeta Haapasalo Playing the Kantele in a Peasant Cottage is an oil work on canvas painted in 1868 by Robert Wilhelm Ekman (1808-1873).\n\nThe dimensions of the painting are 75 × 105 cm. It was purchased for the collection of the Ateneum in 1869.\n\nA number of people listen to a kantele playing. This includes the mistress of the house, young women and their children. Leaning in the corner is a pipe-smoking soldier. The environment is simple, related to their everyday chores, and lit by a daylit window. The work reflects an idealized vision of the Finnish nation and its values.\n\nKreeta Haapasalo was a well-known folk musician who in periods of famine in the 1860s fed a family by traveling as a kantele player, singing poetry. It brought her great popularity at a time of great interest in the roots of the Finnish people. Haapasalo was seen at the time as part of an ancient tradition as an interpreter of the Kalevala, through which she was able to get in touch with genuine Finnish culture.\n\nRobert Ekman, the painter, was interested in the origins of Finnish culture. Ekman studied at the Stockholm Academy of Art. He was interested in historical development and the public life of the Finnish people. His genre paintings depicting it were well received. He returned to Finland on a permanent basis, after an Italian and French tour in 1845, after which he taught until his death in Turku drawing school, which he established in the following year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1321151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1321151", "title": "List of films that most frequently use the word \"fuck\"", "text": "List of films that most frequently use the word \"fuck\"\n\nThe use of profanity in films has always been controversial, but has increased significantly in recent years. The use of the word \"fuck\" in film draws particular criticism; in 2005, the documentary \"Fuck\" dealt entirely with this phenomenon. The word \"fuck\" is thought to be the taboo term used most in American film.\nThe 1927 Motion Picture Production Code, better known as the \"Hays Code\", banned the use of profanity outright. \nThe modern MPAA rating system assigns a PG-13 rating if a film contains the word. The R rating is normally required if the film contains two utterances or if the word is used in a sexual context. There are exceptions to the rule that one sexual use or two non-sexual uses of \"fuck\" results in an R rating. In some cases, filmmakers appealed the rating because their target audience might avoid an R-rated film. Censors have been more lenient about the word in films that portray historical events.\n\nThis is a list of non-pornographic, English language films containing at least 150 spoken uses of the word \"fuck\" (or one of its derivatives), ordered by the number of such uses.\n\nThe data in this list are derived from various sources:\n"}
{"id": "3147923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3147923", "title": "List of human rights articles by country", "text": "List of human rights articles by country\n\nThis is a list of human rights articles by country.\n\nCitizens of the African nations are provided supranational human rights protection by the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights. See also Network of African National Human Rights Institutions.\n\nCitizens of the North And South American nations have degrees of supranational human rights protection from the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.\n\n\nThe most powerful human rights organization is the European Court of Human Rights, which is the first international court with jurisdiction to deal with cases brought by individuals (not states). See also European Group of National Human Rights Institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "39543757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39543757", "title": "Magbo helmet mask for Oro society", "text": "Magbo helmet mask for Oro society\n\nThis Magbo helmet mask for an Oro society member was created by Yoruba artist Onabanjo of Itu Meko. It is currently located in the African collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Created around 1880-1910, it depicts a varied cast of community members carved of wood, colored with pigment, and mounted on a curved bar surmounting the helmet.\n\nThirteen distinct figures crown this helmet, including a prisoner, a nursing mother, a preacher, an accordion player, a soldier, an elder, a palmwine tapper, and a mounted warrior wearing a helmet of his own, this one topped by an enormous bird. This indicates the wide reach of the \"Oro\" society, encompassing the entire community. After 1850, Brazilian motifs (such as the double scrolls above the main face and floral clusters throughout) became a common part of the artistic vernacular among the Ijebu subgroup of the Yoruba people. This is because former slaves returned home, bringing new ideas to the already sophisticated culture.\n\nIn Yoruba communities, the secretive \"Oro\" society had immense power. It was composed of community leaders, who would meet to reward good deeds and punish bad ones with everything from chastisement to the death penalty. They also presided over burials.\n\nThis mask was purchased by Indianapolis philanthropist Harrison Eiteljorg in 1976. He gave it to the IMA in 1989, where it was given the accession number 1989.754. It is currently on view in the Eiteljorg Suite of African and Oceanic Art. \n\nMost African art is unattributed. The unusual practice of nailing the individual figures to the helmet, rather than carving the entire artwork from a single piece of wood, leads scholars to believe that this is the work of master carver Onabanjo, from the village of Itu Meko, Nigeria. The Brazilian motifs are also in keeping with his work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18510726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18510726", "title": "Marind people", "text": "Marind people\n\nMarind or Marind-Anim are people living in South New Guinea.\n\nThe Marind- anim live in Papua province of Indonesia.\nThey occupy a vast territory, which is situated on either side of the Bian, from about 20 miles to the east of Merauke up the mouth of the Moeli in the west (between Frederik Hendrik Island and the mainland, east of Yos Sudarso Island, mainly west of Maro River (a small area goes beyond Maro at its lower part, including Merauke).\nThe territory of the Marind tribe consist of a low-lying, deposited coastal area. This area is for the most part flooded in the wet season. The hinterland, which is situated somewhat higher is intersected by a great number of rivers.\nOriginally, either sago or coconut palm trees were planted, though stretches of bamboo could also be found.\n\nTraditionally the social structure of the Marind was characterised by a clan system. Marind-tribe was divided into moitiesm, each consisting of patrilineal clans (boans). These clans are subdivided into subclans (also boans).\n\nThe people lived spread in several extended families. Such an extended family derives its origin from a mythological ancestor. Ancestor veneration has a characteristic form here: these mythological ancestors are demon-like figures, they feature in myths, and act as culture heroes, arranging the ancient world to its recent state, introducing plants, animals, cultural goods. They have often the form of plants or animals; there is a kind of totemism, but it is not accompanied by a regular food taboo of the respective animal or plant. Totems can appear both in artefacts and myths.\n\nThe word for such an ancestral spirit being is \"dema\" in the Marind languages. The material similarity of this word to “demon” is incidental. Each extended family keeps and transfers the tradition, it is especially the chore of the big men of the respective family. The influence of these big men does not go beyond their extended family.\n\nIn the past, the Marind were famed because of headhunting. This was rooted in their belief system and linked to the name-giving of the newborn. The skull was believed to contain a mana-like force.\n\nThe Marind-anim are also notable for their sexual culture. Ritual intercourse (otiv-bombari) with women would take place on the day of a girl's wedding, when after the ceremony she would have sex with her new partner's male kin before having sex with her husband. This ritualistic intercourse would take place during other times as well, such as after the woman has given birth.\n\nMarind culture was researched by several ethnologists and missionaries. For example, the Swiss Paul Wirz, the German Hans Nevermann, and the Dutch cultural anthropologist Jan van Baal, who was the Governor of Netherlands New Guinea from 1953 until 1958.\n\nThe Marind languages form a small family of the Trans–New Guinea language phylum.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5285994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5285994", "title": "Meriam language", "text": "Meriam language\n\nMeriam (in the language itself \"Meriam Mìr\"; also \"Miriam, Meryam, Mer, Mir, Miriam-Mir\", etc. and \"Eastern, Isten, Esten, ,\" and \"Able Able\") or the Eastern Torres Strait language is the language of the people of the small islands of \"Mer\" (Murray Island), \"Waier\" and \"Dauar\", \"Erub\" (Darnley Island), and \"Ugar\" (Stephens Island) in the eastern Torres Strait, Queensland, Australia. In the Western Torres Strait language, Kalaw Lagaw Ya, it is called \"Mœyam\" or \"Mœyamau Ya\". It is the only Papuan language in Australian territory.\n\nMeriam was classified in the Eastern Trans-Fly family of the Trans–New Guinea Phylum by Stephen Wurm, who however felt that these have retained remnants of pre-Trans–New Guinea languages; this is followed by Ethnologue (2005). In 2005 Malcolm Ross concluded that the Eastern Trans-Fly languages were not part of the Trans–New Guinea phylum. R. M. W. Dixon (2002) regards claims of a relationship between the Fly River languages and Meriam as unproven, though what he bases his claim on is not clear, as Meriam Mir has a high cognacy rate with its sister languages, and a certain amount of mutual intelligibility is claimed by Meriam speakers. Mitchell finds that Meriam Mìr has 78% cognates with its sister Trans-Fly Papuan languages, the remaining vocabulary being mainly of Australian origin . Such Trans-Fly cognates include personal pronouns, and verbal and nominal morphology. \n\nMeriam has around 40 percent of its vocabulary in common with its unrelated Western Torres Strait neighbour Kala Lagaw Ya, which is an Australian language . The shared words cover a wide range of semantic domains (body parts, kin, human classification, language, mythology, ceremony, artefacts, topography, natural elements, marine life, qualities, locations, directions and time), though not verbs. This latter strengthens arguments about genetic diversity, however there is still much to suggest mutual influence. The common vocabulary range from \"exact cognates\" to words that appear related, but have undergone semantic changes, as in the following selected from a list of 250 items (Mitchell 1995) (where exact \"cognates\" number 62 (24.8%), partial \"cognates\" 26 (10%) and \"cognates\" with semantic differentiation number 34 (13.7%)):\n\nThere are also various items of semantic relationship, but not formal relationship, such as WCL \"puuy(i)\", MM \"lu\" \"plant, tree; magic\".\n\nMitchell and Piper (unpublished research notes) used the Holman et al. 40-word list below, which shows 9 (22.5%) exact items, 5 (12.5%) partial, and 3 (7.5%) semantically related words. However, this list was designed for use with Euro-Asian languages, and is perhaps somewhat inappropriate; for example, no horned animals exist, neither language has a verb ‘come’, and Holman et al. assume one form for 'we'; WCL has 4, and MM has 2.\n\nPCD Proto Central-District Papuan Austronesian, PETrf Proto East Trans Fly; POC Proto Oceanic Austronesian; PP Proto Paman; PSEPap Proto South-East Papuan Austronesian [neighbouring languages noted : Papuan : Gizrra, Bine/Kunini, Wipi (Eastern Trans Fly Family), Kiwai (Trans-New Guinea Phylum), Idi, Agöb (Pahoturi family); Australian : Gudang, and the Northern Cape York Language, dialects : Wudhadhi, Atampaya, Angkamuthi, Yadhaykenu]\n\nThe main source of loan words to the language since the mid 1800s has been Yumplatòk (Torres Strait Creole) and English. There are also some minor loans from Lifu/Drehu, Polynesian (in particular Samoan and to a lesser extent Rotuman), Indonesian, Philippine, Japanese, and European origin. Many such outsiders were recruited – or in some rare cases black-birded – in the 19th century for pearl diving and other marine work, while others (from Lifu and Samoa) were missionaries with the British and Foreign Bible Society.\n\nThe language is currently dialectless. However, there was once a separate dialect spoken on Erub and Ugar islands, characterised in part by the retention of phonemic distinctions between 'ng', 'g', 'n' and 'r' where these have fallen together in two ways in Meriam Mir. The sound 'ng' in Modern Meriam has become 'n' at the beginning of words and 'g' within words; 'n' in many cases has become 'r' within words. Examples are remembered in one important Erub folktale (Lawrie 1970:283–284):\n\nErub : Aka nade ki andinane? Ge au?\n\nMer : Aka nade ki ardirare? Ge au?\n\n\"Where will we put it? There?\"\n\nErub : Mena inggandane/ingandane! Keniba uzen unken a keniba imut unken.\n\nMer : Mena igardare! Keriba uzer urker a keriba imut urker.\n\n\"Keep carrying it! Our paddles and our poling poles are still strong.\"\n\nThe earliest records (early 19th century) of Meriam Mìr included the phrase debelang \"good taste/nice\", in present-day Meriam Mìr debe lag. This shows that the 'ng' > 'n'/'g' change is of fairly recent date; lang, now lag, is identical to the Gizrra lang of the same meaning.\n\nThe sounds represented by and are allophonic. appears mainly in syllables \"before\" the stress accent and optionally in open unstressed syllables otherwise. appears in stressed syllables and in unstressed closed syllables.\n\nFor some speakers the following pairs exhibit variation, and perhaps have unidentified allophonic variation: and (mainly Erub/Ulag), and (mainly Mer), and , and , and and . Older speakers appear to keep the vowels more distinct.\n\nStress is contrastive in Meriam and can occur on the first or second syllable. Examples include \"tábo\" 'snake', \"tabó\" 'neck.\n\nThe Torres Strait Islanders have signed forms of their languages, though it is not clear from records that they are particularly well-developed compared to other Australian Aboriginal sign languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36222740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36222740", "title": "Mohammad Anwar Khan Durrani", "text": "Mohammad Anwar Khan Durrani\n\nMohammad Anwer Khan Durrani (26 December 1946 – 2008) was a Pakistani politician, lawyer and Senator and a very famous Khan of Popalzai sub clain of Durrani Pashtun tribe in Balochistan.\n\nMuhammad Anwar Khan Durrani was born in Quetta on 26 December 1946 to Abdul Wadood Khan Durrani. He was educated at the local academic institutions and got his master's degree in Economic and also bachelor's degree in Law and Jurisprudence from the Balochistan University. He joined SM Law College University of Karachi and got a master's degree to get specialization in field of law. His interest in the legal profession and jurisprudence led Mr. Durrani to study federalism at the Temple University of the United States in Philadelphia and was also recognized as Correspondent of the Center for the study of Federalism, in 1991.\n\nMuhammad Anwar Khan Durrani has three children, (one son and two daughters) who are currently studying in U.S.A.\n\nSenior Civil Judge Abdul Wahid Durrani was the nephew of Muhammad Anwer Khan Durran. Senior Civil Judge Abdul Wahid Durran was a hard worker and honest judge during his career. However, he embraced Shahadat in a bomb blast in Session Court of Balochistan in February 2007.\n\nAnwar Khan Durrani was advocate of the High Court and Supreme Court of Pakistan. he was appointed as the Advocate on Record of the Supreme Court of Pakistan. Muhammad Anwar Khan Durrani was elected the Vice President of the Balochistan Bar Association in 1980, and the President of the Bar in 1992 and was elected the Secretary General of the Balochistan Bar Association in 1989.\n\nAnwar Khan Durrani came into active politics by joining Tehrik-e-Istiqlal Balochistan in 1972. However, he left the Tehrik-e-Istiqlal in 1986 and joined the Pakistan Muslim League (N). and then he joined as the Jamhoori Watan Party and was very active associate of Nawab Akbar Khan Bugti . He elected as Member of the Central Committee of Jamhoori Watan Party and later elected as Secretary General of JWP and then he has been appointed has advisor to the Chief Ministry Balochistan on Law and Information. Anwar Khan Durrani has a meritorious record to his credit when he fought a legal battle for the restoration of the Balochistan Assembly which was dissolved in 1988. He contested his case at the Balochistan High Court and then at the Supreme Court of Pakistan and consequently the Assembly was restored by the High Court. Anwar Khan Durrani was elected as a Member of the Senate in March 1997 for a period of six years, He was nominated as Member of the Senate Standing Committees on Cabinet, Establishment, Planning and Development and Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs and also on affairs of the Functional Committee on Government Assurance. Muhammad Anwar Khan Durrani (Died in 2008)\n"}
{"id": "31724035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31724035", "title": "Molse School", "text": "Molse School\n\nMolse School, \"translated as \"School of Mol\",\" is a common term for some international paint artists or a specific genre of paintings in late 19th and early 20th century. The paintings typically show picturesque and rustic places, farms, ... of the Belgian municipality Mol, which is located in the Campine. The most famous painters of the \"Molse School\" were Jakob Smits and Dirk Baksteen who lived in Achterbos, a hamlet of Mol.\n\nBased upon the Barbizon school the municipality Mol organized an international art exhibition in 1907 and invited painters from all over the world. Most of these artists had not met before and their only connection was their stay in a local hotel during the exhibition. These artists were not tied by a fine art society, neither was there a common style. In total 68 artists participated at this event, showing 212 works. This exhibition was also an attempt to show the artists the beauty of Mol, its heath, the white sand flats and how the inhabitants (mostly farmers) lived. This attempt succeeded.\n\nUpon their return home, the artists showed their paintings to their colleagues. This resulted in those colleagues also coming over to Mol making painting en plein air popular.\n\nSome artists commonly categorized under the \"Molse School\" are Dirk Baksteen, Gerard Baksteen, Charles Claessens, Leon Delderenne, Paul Mathieu, Ernest Midy, Erneste Rinquet, Jakob Smits, Willem Battaille, Emile Van Damme-Sylva, Paula Van Rompa-Zenke, Gaston De Biemme\n"}
{"id": "31752140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31752140", "title": "Mondo (film)", "text": "Mondo (film)\n\nMondo is a 1995 French drama film written and directed by Tony Gatlif based upon the short story by J. M. G. Le Clézio. The film debuted at the Unifrance French Film Festival in Japan 1995, and premiered in France April 17, 1996.\n\nThe film's star, Ovidiu Balan, was 11 when the film was shot. He is a Romanian Gypsy who was taken under the director's wing with help of the French government\nGatlif created the film as a work on the themes of the \"restless and free\" gypsy, in contrast to the notion of settlements proposed for Sinti and Roma populations in the EU. Unlike similar films about street children, such as Salaam Bombay or Pixote, this film was intended as a fairy tale of sorts of a mythical spirit who touches the lives of outcast people in a society filled with prejudice against the gypsies.\n\nThe movie follows an orphan boy surviving in Nice through the kindness of strangers and his own ingenuity. One day Mondo (Ovidiu Balan) appears on the streets of Nice. He has no family, no possessions, no schooling, but shares a brilliant smile and good spirit. Being more at home in the city's gardens, fields, and seashore, the bustle of the city seems to overwhelm him. He has good survival instincts, avoiding police and threatening adults in his search for a family.\n\n\n\nGatlif's earlier film \"Latcho Drom\" presented a romantic portrait of Gypsy music and culture. He brings the same sensibility to this lyrical \"Mondo\", a sad-eyed image of the universal outsider, France's most unwanted. \"Mondo\" is described to be visually reminding one of those rare days when the world used to sparkle as though it were brand new, set in the streets and docks of the French port city of Nice.\n"}
{"id": "20631020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20631020", "title": "Namibia Red Cross Society", "text": "Namibia Red Cross Society\n\nNamibia Red Cross Society, also known as NRCS, was founded in 1992. It has its headquarters in Windhoek.\n\n"}
{"id": "47630605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47630605", "title": "National Register of Citizens of India", "text": "National Register of Citizens of India\n\nThe <nowiki>National Register of Citizens (NRC) [ हिन्दी : राष्ट्रीय नागरिक पंजिका ]</nowiki> is a register containing names of all genuine Indian citizens residing in Assam. The register was first prepared after the 1951, Census of India.\n\nThe NRC is now being updated in Assam to include the names of those persons (or their descendants) who appear in the NRC, 1951, or in any of the Electoral Rolls up to the midnight of 24 March 1971 or in any one of the other admissible documents issued up to mid-night of 24 March 1971, which would prove their presence in Assam or in any part of India on or before 24 March 1971.\nThe update process of NRC started in the year 2013 under the strict monitoring of Supreme Court of India. On the midnight of 31 December 2017, Part Draft NRC was released and subsequently on 30 July 2018, the Complete Draft NRC was released.\n\nThe purpose of NRC update is to identify illegal migrants residing in North eastern state who entered Indian territories after midnight on 24 March 1971 and to determine the citizenship of the applicants who have applied for inclusion of their names in the updated NRC.\n\nIn the 19th & 20th century, Colonial Assam (1826–1947) witnessed migration from various provinces of British India especially after the Yandabo treaty (signed on 24 February 1826). The liberal attitude of the Colonial authorities further encouraged the continuous arrival of peasants from Bengal to Assam in search of fertile lands. As early as 1931, C.S. Mullan, the Census Superintendent in his census report even stated:\n\n\"“Probably the most important event in the province during the last 25 years- an event, moreover, which seems likely to alter permanently the whole feature of Assam and to destroy the whole structure of Assamese culture and civilization has been the invasion of a vast horde of land-hungry immigrant”\"  (Politics of Migration by Dr.Manju Singh, Anita Publications, Jaipur, 1990, Page 59)\n\nPost partition too, the matter of influx didn’t die down. Excerpts from White Paper on Foreigners' Issue published by the Home & Political Department, Government of Assam on October 20, 2012 – Chapter 1, Historical Perspective, section 1.2 reads thus – \"“Following Partition and communal riots in the subcontinent, Assam initially saw an influx of refugees and other migrants from East Pakistan. The number of such migrants other than refugees was initially reported by the State Government to be between 1,50,000 and 2,00,000 but later estimated to be around 5,00,000.”\"\n\nConsidering the seriousness of the matter concerning the persistent influx of illegal migrants, the Government of India went on to formulate the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act, 1950. This act which came into effect from 1 March 1950 mandated expulsion of illegal immigrants from the state of Assam. To identify illegal immigrants, the National Register of Citizens was prepared for the first time in Assam during the conduct of 1951 Census. It was carried out under a directive of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) by recording particulars of every single person enumerated during that Census. However, this measure against illegal migrants too suffered a major setback due to the fact that only from October 1952 onwards the regulations of passport and visa became operational between India and Pakistan. Further, “the definition of a foreigner to cover a Pakistan national was only clearly spelt out with the amendment of the Foreigners Act 1946 in 1957”.\n\nMeanwhile the issue of illegal infiltration was becoming formidable in the state of Assam. The Registrar General of Census in his report on 1961 Census assessed 220691 infiltrants to have entered Assam.\n\nIn 1965 the government of India collaborated with the government of Assam to expedite completion of the National Register of Citizens and to issue National Identity Cards on the basis of this register to Indian citizens in order to aid identification of illegal immigrants. But in 1966 the Central Government dropped the proposal to issue identity cards in consultation with the Government of Assam, having found the project impracticable.\n\nBetween 1948 and 1971, there were large scale migrations from Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) to Assam. Given this continuing influx of illegal migrants from Bangladesh into Assam, student leaders in 1979 came out in fierce protest demanding detention, disenfranchisement and deportation of illegal immigrants from Assam. The historic movement which came to be known as Assam Agitation or Assam Movement was initiated by All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and All Assam Gana Sangram Parishad (AAGSP) and lasted a span of 6 years. Reportedly considered by various intellectual and media forums as one of the largest mass movement led by students’ union, the six-year-long agitation left behind thousands of bleeding hearts, empty wombs, and bloodstained fields. The movement, however, culminated in the signing of the landmark Memorandum of Settlement (MoS) - the Assam Accord. It was signed by All Assam Students’ Union (AASU), Central and State Governments on August 15, 1985, at the behest of then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in New Delhi.\n\nThe Accord ended the agitation and it brought along a number of clauses that were to be implemented to curb the illegal immigration issue. As per the Assam Accord, 1 January 1966 was determined to be the precise date based on which the detention and deletion of illegal immigrants from Assam will take place. It allowed citizenship for all persons coming to Assam from “Specified Territory” before the cut-off date. It further specifies that all persons who came to Assam prior to 1 January 1966 (inclusive) and up to 24 March 1971 (midnight) shall be detected in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1939. Name of foreigners so detected will be deleted from the Electoral Rolls in force. Such persons will be required to register themselves before the Registration Officers of the respective districts in accordance with the provisions of the Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939 and the Registration of Foreigners Rules, 1939. Foreigners who came to Assam on or after 25 March 1971 shall continue to be detected, deleted and expelled in accordance with law.\n\nHowever, even after the Accord was put in place and signed, the process of detecting and expelling immigrants never really officially took place. In fact, the only attempt at detecting foreigners by updating the National Register in Assam was through a Pilot Project which was started in 2 circles (referred to as Tehsil in some states), one in Kamrup district and another in Barpeta district in the year 2010, which ended abruptly within 4 weeks amidst a huge law and order problem involving a mob attack on the Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Barpeta that resulted in police firing killing 4 persons. Considering the volatile nature of the issue, for a long time particularly after the experience of the pilot project, NRC update was considered almost an impossible task.\n\nBut ultimately it was taken up at the behest of the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s order following writ petitions by Assam Public Works. Hon’ble Supreme Court in 2013, headed by the Bench of Justice Ranjan Gogoi and Justice Rohintan Fali Nariman, directed the Union Government and the State Government to complete the update of NRC, to be implemented in adherence to Citizenship Act, 1955 and The Citizenship Rules, 2003, in all parts of Assam with the objective to rule out immigrants from the state. Pursuant to the directive of the Hon’ble Court, the Registrar General of India via its notification Number S.O. 3591 E dated December 6, 2013 notified commencing of NRC. That was the beginning of the gargantuan task identification of illegal migrants and the Supreme Court thereupon took up the task of monitoring the entire process of NRC Update in Assam.\n\nThe Honourable Supreme Court bench overlooking the NRC Update process in Assam constitutes of Honourable Justices Shri Ranjan Gogoi and Shri Rohinton Fali Nariman\".\"\n\nThe NRC is updated as per the provisions The Citizenship Act, 1955 and The Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003 (As amended by 1. G. S. R. 803(E), dated 9 November 2009 (with effect from 9/11/2009.), Ministry of Home Affairs (Office of Registrar General, India), Order No. S.O. 596(E), dated 15 March 2010, published in the Gazette of India, Extra, Part II. No. 504 S.3(ii), dated 16 March 2010 p. 1.). As per the two statutes, the eligibility status would be ascertained based on the NRC, 1951, Electoral Rolls up to 1971 and in their absence the admissible documents up to 24 March (midnight) 1971.\n\nPolicy decisions, guidelines and funds for NRC updates are provided by the Central Government of India, but its implementation is done through the State Government machinery under the Registrar General of India who functions as the Registrar General of Citizen Registration under Rule 15 of Citizenship Rules, 2003 as amended in 2009 and 2010.\n\nThe modalities for NRC updates have been developed jointly by the Government of Assam and the Government of India in adherence to these statutes.\n\n\nUpdating the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in the state of Assam is the most extensive citizen engaging exercise. A highly structured plan was put in place to carry out the process of NRC update.\n\nDevelopment of over 20 large custom software applications, over 2500 digitization hubs and a state of art Data Centre along with extensive manpower involvement (over 30,000 government officers and 10,000 contractual/ outsourced staff) was set up to take on the process of NRC update.\n\nIn order to aid and assist the public in enrolling themselves in the NRC update process ICT (Information Communication Technology) enabled Help Desks named as NRC Seva Kendras (NSKs) were set up across the state. NRC Seva Kendras (NSK) were set up in each district of Assam; each NSK covering an approximate of 2,500 households. NSK acts as epicentre for all the NRC activities starting from assisting the public in searching the Legacy Data, distribution of Application Form, receipt of Application Form, carrying out all the data entry work, displaying of Draft NRC and so on. Each NSK is equipped with sophisticated software for Legacy Data Search in three languages, namely English, Assamese and Bengali & besides that, adequate hardware such as computers, scanners, & furniture are made available for public convenience.\n\nSome of the rules pertaining to NSKs are such - The Application Form can be submitted only in the designated NSK that covers applicant’s present address. The designated NSK shall receive Application Form only from the villages/wards earmarked under it. Officials of the designated NSK will visit the address given under \"Present Address\" to conduct verification of applications received from areas covered under that particular NSK only.\n\nThe mechanism adopted to update the NRC 1951 has been developed from scratch owing to the fact that there is no precedence of such a mammoth task ever undertaken in India or elsewhere that involved identification of genuine citizens and detection of illegal immigrants using technology since it involved data of over 3 crore people and over 6.6 crore documents. The guidelines under which NRC Update has been taken up is as follows –\n\nThe process of NRC Update is divided into the following phases:\n\n- Publication of Legacy Data\n\n- Distribution & Receipt of Application Form\n\n- Verification Process\n\n- Publication of Part Draft NRC\n\n- Publication of Complete Draft NRC\n\n- Receipt and disposal of Claims and Objection\n\n- Publication of Final NRC\n\nTo claim eligibility for inclusion in NRC the applicants had to prove their residence in Assam (or in any part of the country) up to 24 March 1971. As per statutory requirement, the NRC authorities had to publish copies of NRC 1951 and Electoral Rolls of all years up to 24 March 1971 (collectively named as Legacy Data). Easy accessibility of these documents was the key to ensure effective public engagement in the process. About 6.26 lakh pages of such old documents were available across the state, but most of those were in poor condition as can be seen in the image of Original NRC 1951. It would not have been possible for the public to search for their names in the heaps of dilapidated documents. To address this concern, NRC authority decided to digitize and develop the legacy data and make it available in the easily searchable format. 2.01 crore records were digitized and were assigned a Unique “Legacy Data Code” from 6.26 lakh pages of such legacy documents. All these pages were then converted into images through photographic scanning and assigned unique image IDs and linked to the 2.01 crore records for preserving the database, establishing the unique identity of records and producing true copies of Legacy Data for publication. The data was transliterated to make it search enabled in Assamese, English and Bengali. Out of the total 8 crore words found in the Legacy Database, an “Assam Data Dictionary” was prepared with 24 lakhs unique words. 25 GB of SQL database and 240 GB image files were installed in a short span of 10 days in 5000 laptops spread over 2500 NRC Seva Kendras (NSKs) specially set up for free search and issue of Legacy Data. Legacy database was also made available on the public domain through NRC Website. Issue of 77 lakh Legacy Data Codes in NSKs and 68 lakh through the web in a period of 6 months proved to be the game-changer in NRC update. Out of 68.23 lakh Application Forms received from the public, 95% applicants submitted Legacy Data as supporting document to prove their claim for inclusion in NRC. This indicates to the indispensability of Legacy Data development exercise which set the ball rolling for NRC update in Assam\n\nTwo set of documents had to be furnished by the applicants for inclusion in the updated NRC. They are -\n\nFor inclusion of names of any person in updated NRC, the applicants must produce any one of the following List A documents issued before 24 March (midnight), 1971 where the name of self or ancestor appears (to prove residence in Assam up to 24 March (midnight), 1971):\n\n·        1951 NRC\n\n·        Electoral Roll(s) up to 24 March (midnight), 1971\n\n·        Land & Tenancy Records\n\n·        Citizenship Certificate\n\n·        Permanent Residential Certificate\n\n·        Refugee Registration Certificate\n\n·        Passport\n\n·        LIC\n\n·        Any Govt. issued License/Certificate\n\n·        Govt. Service/ Employment Certificate\n\n·        Bank/Post Office Accounts\n\n·        Birth Certificate\n\n·        Board/University Educational Certificate\n\n·        Court Records/Processes\n\nFurther, the following two documents are also accepted as supporting documents if accompanied by any one of the documents listed above:\n\n·        Circle Officer/GP Secretary Certificate in respect of married women migrating after marriage (can be of any year before or after 24 March (midnight), 1971).\n\n·        Ration Card issued up to the midnight of 24 March 1971 can be adduced as supporting documents.\n\nIf any of the documents of List A is not of the applicant himself/herself but that of an ancestor, namely, father or mother or grandfather or grandmother or great grandfather or great grandmother (and so on) the applicant then have to submit List B documents to establish relationship with such ancestor, i.e., father or mother or grandfather or grandmother or great grandfather or great grandmother etc. whose name appears in List A. Such documents shall have to be legally acceptable document which clearly proves such relationship. The applicants must produce any one of the following List B to establish the linkage:\n\n.        Birth Certificate\n\n.        Land document\n\n.        Board/University Certificate\n\n.        Bank/LIC/Post Office records\n\n.        Circle Officer/GP Secretary Certificate in case of married women\n\n.       Electoral Roll\n\n.        Ration Card\n\n.        Any other legally acceptable document\n\nThe application process was facilitated to the public in both online and offline modes. People opting for the offline mode had to visit their nearest NSK for filling up and submission of their application forms. The NSKs received applications from 9 AM till 6 PM.\n\nPeople opting for online mode had the option of submitting the form via their smart phones and tablet devices as well, in addition to accessing the form via a desktop/Laptop. The online form was designed to collect data for the entire family in average 24 fields and 2-3 pages of scanned documents and one photograph for each person. It may be mentioned here that average family size for Assam is 5 members per family. Application Forms were distributed house to house by government functionaries in the entire state and could be collected by the applicants from the NRC Seva Kendra’s (NSKs) in case it was lost or damaged. Facility for online download from the NRC website <nowiki>http://nrcassam.nic.in/application-form.html</nowiki> was also made available. One Application Form per household was distributed, which had the provision to provide details of up to six (6) members. For families with more than 6 members, additional forms were issued. One could also take a Xerox copy of the form themselves. Application forms were made available in Assamese, English, Bengali and Bodo languages.\n\nThe guidelines of form fill up were made available in the form of instruction sheets distributed during the Community Awareness Meetings. That apart video tutorials for each side of the Application Form, Side A, B, C and D were developed and made available online as well as distributed in the form of CDs in each district at the capacity building meetings. Applicants could also call NRC toll-free helpline number 15107 (from Assam) and 18003453762 (from outside Assam) or visit their designated NSKs for any assistance required in the filling up the Application Form.\n\nThe sole objective of the verification process is to ensure that no ineligible person gets entry into the updated NRC and that no genuine person is left out form the NRC. The verification process consists of the following steps:\n\nThe process of office verification focuses on establishing the authenticity of the documents submitted by validating the same with issuing authority. As per Citizenship Rules, verification is a multistage process involving house to house verification and document verification that involves comparing documents submitted (to trace particulars or linkage up to the aforementioned cut-off date) with the backend available with issuing authorities of such documents. Each of 6.6 crore documents such as Electoral rolls, land records, birth certificates, university certificates, bank documents, post office documents, passports etc. belonging to about 3344 different categories of issuing offices,  in addition to over 71,710 schools, had to be sent to its issuing offices to check authenticity of such documents.\n\nThe only way of accomplishing the verification task was to set up a specialized mechanism equipped with the best of IT-based work flow management system to send the documents to the respective backend authorities (offices from where the document was issued) through the development of specialized and sophisticated software named as “DOCSMEN – Document Segregation and Meta-Data Entry”. The DOCSMEN software is used for feeding information about documents such as destination, document code, metadata and then slicing as per document details for electronic sending to various destinations inside and outside Assam. It may be added that during Application receipt, the same Application Form and its supporting documents were scanned in a single PDF and the PDF was then sliced in Application Forms, supporting documents based on their page numbers. This software is installed in over 6000 standalone laptops deployed in NSKs and circles and the data is then uploaded into a central database for further processing. A special utility is used at central Data Centre for generation of documents in lots (a set of 50 documents) of the same category from same issuing authority but received from varied sources/across the state. This enables systematic sending of documents to issuing offices for backend checking. For example, for the State Board of Education, any lot would contain only the document of a particular year and examination centre irrespective of the location where such documents were submitted. As such, each of the 6.65 crore documents is packed into lots of 79534 issuing authorities for sending electronically to such issuing authority. This bespoke software handled robust data and enabled processing of crores of documents in a systematic format that enabled completion of verification of 4.52 crores of documents in a span of 8 months. Without a state of the art Document Management System, it would have taken years to achieve such kind of progress.\n\nThe process of field verification through the house to house visit to over 68 lakh applicants was also made systematic through the computerized generation of pre-filled Verification Teams Report (VTR). VTR is a single page document generated using digitized Application Form data for each applicant that is to be verified by the verification team. VTR serves two purposes – first by making the job of Verification Teams easy by providing prepopulated data related to applicants systematically in one page where the Teams  have to record the result only in “Yes”/ “No” format. Additionally, the VTR also indicated the fields in which the applicants have not provided full detail in their Forms so that the Verifying Officers can complete those during field verification. The second purpose served by VTRs is to allow quality checking of the first round of application form data digitization done by operators. As VTRs are taken to field for the recording of results, the VTs get a chance to correct any digitization error and take the second opinion on the spelling of names, surnames etc., directly from the applicants.\n\nThe process of field verification focuses on establishing if the document submitted actually relates to the applicant/ member or not. Field verification further establishes an identity of the applicant/ member and authenticates his/ her linkage claims.\n\nFamily Tree Verification technique was used to find out if the Legacy Data published by NRC authority had been misused by an imposter. As the Legacy Data had been digitized and each record assigned a unique number, it was possible to find out a list of users of one particular Legacy Data and then cross check this computer-generated list with actual family members declared beforehand in a form named “Manual Family Tree”. Imposters often “adopt” a person in whose name legacy document is available and then get linkage documents prepared accordingly to establish this relationship. Some of the documents used by imposters are not even forged, such as electoral rolls, which are issued without checking the authenticity of particulars. For this reason, it is found that the document verification process itself is not a foolproof process in finding imposters. As such this technique of comparing Computerized Family Trees (CFTs) with Manual Family Trees (MFTs) became more accurate method to determine the authenticity of claims of the NRC applicants.\n\nVerification of Family Tree commenced on 15 February 2018 in Assam. Applicants whose family tree details mismatched with other members of the family were called for family tree verification. Mismatches arising due to giving nicknames in family tree details, name/ surname changes due to marriage, missing out names of all family members due to lack of knowledge or ignorance, etc., were corrected during the proceedings. Applicants received Letter of Information (LOI) delivered at their households by NRC field level functionaries. Details of date, time and venue were mentioned in the LOI.\n\nFinal eligibility for inclusion of names was determined only if, the results of all the three verification process - field verification, office verification and Family Tree Matching were found positive.\n\nThe first part of draft NRC, known as the Part Draft NRC published on expiry of midnight of 31 December 2017 by the Office of the State Coordinator of National Registrar (Assam) in all the villages/wards where the Application Forms were issued & received. The total number of people included in the Part Draft NRC was 1,90,10,932 members out of 3.29 crore applicants.\n\nThe complete draft NRC was published on 30 July 2018 Office of the State Coordinator of National Registrar (Assam) in all the villages/wards in all the villages/wards where the Application Forms were issued & received and also made available on the website www.nrcassam.nic.in\n\nThe total number of persons included in the Complete Draft NRC is 2,89,83,677 leaving a total of 40,70,707 as ineligible for inclusion.\n\nThe persons whose names do not appear in the Draft NRC, may file claim application within a stipulated period at the NSK where the Application Form was submitted.\n\nA person may also have an objection against entry of any name in the draft NRC. The objections to entry of names of persons in the draft updated NRC can be filed before the LRCR.\n\nAny person can also apply for correction of his name or any other entry in his respect as appearing in the Draft updated NRC, he/ she can file correction application within a stipulated period before the LRCR.\n"}
{"id": "37310747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37310747", "title": "Naxal School for the Deaf", "text": "Naxal School for the Deaf\n\nNaxal School for the Deaf (Nepali: ) is the first school for the deaf established in the (then) Kingdom of Nepal. It was originally established in 1966 in a room in a local hospital by an ENT doctor, but soon moved to its current site in Bal Mandir.\n\nOriginally, the teaching philosophy was oralist, and when it was first established there was an American Peace Corps volunteer who provided auditory and speech training. A Total Communication approach was adopted starting in 1988. Although the current stated methodology is Bilingualism in Nepali Sign Language and Nepali, in fact the instructional practice would better be termed Simultaneous Communication (also known as SimCom or Sign Supported Speech)), using a form of Sign-Supported Nepali, with genuine Nepali Sign Language used \n\nThe school currently teaches classes through SLC, as well as Plus 2 classes, and is planning to set up a B.Ed. course in the near future.\nPopular actress of Nepal, Namrata Shrestha helped the school recently by celebrating her 27th Birthday at the school. \n\n"}
{"id": "39234632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39234632", "title": "New Century Global Center", "text": "New Century Global Center\n\nNew Century Global Center () is a multipurpose building in the Tianfu New Area of Chengdu, China, and is the world's largest building in terms of floor area. It is served by Line 1 of the Chengdu Metro.\n\nThe structure is in size with of floor space, making it the world's largest building measured by floor space. The Boeing Everett Factory in Everett, Washington, in the United States has the largest volume, while the Aalsmeer Flower Auction in Aalsmeer, Netherlands, has the largest footprint.\n\nDeveloped by billionaire Deng Hong's Entertainment and Travel Group (ETG), nearly of the building is devoted to shopping. It also houses offices, conference rooms, a university complex, two commercial centres, hotels, an IMAX cinema, a \"Mediterranean village\", a pirate ship and an Olympic-size skating rink. The centrepiece of the building is a water park (\"Paradise Island Water Park\"), containing a artificial beach, where a giant screen forms the horizon to offer sunrises and sunsets. At night, a stage extends out over the pool for concerts. A stand has been built overlooking the pool with a food court and entrance underneath at the floor level. The new Intercontinental Hotel will feature 1,009 rooms that are spread over 6x8 story blocks around the edge of the complex. The centre is connected to Line 1 of the Chengdu Metro.\n\nThe building will eventually face the Chengdu Contemporary Arts Centre, designed by Iraqi-British architect Zaha Hadid.\n\nAlthough parts of the shopping area opened in early 2013, the centre was supposed to have formally opened in March 2013 when it hosted the Global Fortune 500 conference. However, the businessman behind the project, Deng Hong, was arrested on corruption charges, and \"given the potential for political humiliation\" the conference was moved to the Shangri-La Hotel in Chengdu.\n\nThe opening was delayed until 22 August 2013, but was then scaled back after the arrest of more than 50 local government officials being detained in a series of overlapping investigations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24782203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24782203", "title": "Northern Liao", "text": "Northern Liao\n\nNorthern Liao () was a state created by the Khitans, separate from the Liao dynasty, in northern China around Liao Nanjing (now Beijing) and Zhongjing (today's Ningcheng). The state in Nanjing only existed for about nine months in 1122–1123. A further Northern Liao dynasty existed briefly in 1123.\n\nWhen the Emperor Tianzuo of Liao fled to the west under the military pressure of the Jurchens of the Jin dynasty, he appointed Yelü Chun (1062–1122, a grandson of Emperor Xingzong of Liao), Prince of Yan, as the Governor of Nanjing (Nanjing Liushou) (Nanjing means \"southern capital\" and should not be confused with today's Nanjing). Yelü Chun however was enthroned as the Emperor Tianxi in March 1122 (Chinese calendar). Since Liao dynasty of the Emperor Tianzuo still existed, the state at Nanjing was called Northern Liao by historians.\n\nYelü Chun's era name was Jianfu. He defeated the attack of the Song army, led by Tong Guan. He died in June 1122 (Chinese calendar), with temple name Xuanzong and posthumous name Xiaozhang.\n\nYelü Chun was succeeded nominally by Prince of Qin, Yelü Ding. However, since Yelü Ding was in hiding with his father Emperor Tianzuo, the Empress Dowager Xiao Defei (蕭德妃) was enthroned as regent for the Prince of Qin, with the new era name Dexing. The Khitans under the command of Xiao Gan and Yelü Dashi were able to repulse attacks by the Song forces, but the Jurchens led by Aguda continued to advanced south toward Nanjing. In December 1122 (Chinese calendar, probably early 1123 in Western calendar), the city of Nanjing surrendered to the Jin army, ending the brief existence of Northern Liao in Nanjing. Just before the Jurchen conquest, Yelü Dashi led 7000 of his troops to rejoin Emperor Tianzuo in the western region, taking the empress with him. The empress Xiao Defei was however executed by Emperor Tianzuo.\n\nIn 1123, the Jurchens attacked the Tianzuo's palace at Qingzhong (south of modern Hohhot), capturing members of his family. Tianzuo sought refuge with the Xi Xia, however his son Yelü Yali, the Prince of Liang, chose to go to the Yugu and Dilie tribes north of the Gobi Desert, and was enthroned there as another Northern Liao emperor in the fifth month of 1123. He died however in the tenth month that same year. His son, Yelü Zhulie, succeeded him, but was killed only a month later by his own troops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33419552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33419552", "title": "Ogahi", "text": "Ogahi\n\nOgahi (Urdu: اوگاھی) is a vast land-owning tribe of Pakistan. The majority lives in Sindh, while a small number are also present in Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Ogahi tribesmen mostly speak Sindhi, Saraiki, Punjabi and Urdu. It is a martial tribe. They fall in the category of Buledi (Burdi) tribes that migrated to Sindh. Tribal Chief in Sindh is called Rais, while other notables are called Mir, Sardar, Jam, Khan, Mian. \n\nThe Musalman Races found in Sindh, Baluchistan and Afghanistan\n\nhttp://www.dawn.com/news/220858/jirga-held-in-kandhkot-despite-ban\n"}
{"id": "7454238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7454238", "title": "Radala", "text": "Radala\n\nRadala refers to a small minority caste in the Kandyan Kingdom of Sri Lanka. They were the Chiefs of the Kingdom of Kandy. The term \"Radala\" is coming from the combination of words \"Radh\" (meaning, \"Royal\") and \"Kola\" or \"Kula\" (meaning, \"caste\"), which literally means \"the royal caste\". The word \"Radala\" came into existence after the throne of the Kingdom of Kandy went to the Nayak Dynasty. Higher officials in the court of Vira Narendra Sinha were offered this state and Nayakkara prince was selected as king over king's son by a local queen. After capturing the Kandyan provinces in 1815 with the aid of locals from both maritime and Kandyan provinces, the British created an extensive class of loyal 'New Radalas' in the Kandyan territory to assist them in the administration of that province.\n\nTraditionally, Radala was not a common term used for all officials of the state. In the Sinhala version of the Kandyan Convention of 1815, only the Adigars, Dissavas and a few others are called Radalas. The 19th century British rulers who created an extensive class of 'New Radalas' in the Kandyan territory were keen to call them an aristocracy to assist them with its administration. However Sri Lankan history shows that many Kandyan Radalas were civil and military officials of the court and considered aristocratic but not as direct heirs to the Kandyan throne.\n\nThe offspring of Kandyan Kings from high cast concubines (yakadadoli) were those that were originally considered as Radalas. In addition to a chief queen and one or two secondary queens, Kandyan kings also had a Harem. Harem ladies from royal stock were called Randoli. Hindu princesses were brought over from Madurai in South India as Randolis, after the royal families of the maritime region in Sri Lanka converted to Christianity and were therefore no longer eligible. Ladies of the Radala castes were taken into the harem as Yakadadoli. Favorite concubines frequently received land grants and their offspring were appointed as high officials of the royal court and in a few cases inherited the kingdom.\n\nThe status disparity between royalty and the Radalas was small and the Radalas only had to call themselves 'serviles' (gettás) in the presence of the king and prostrated only at ritual ceremonies to demonstrate their lower status vis a vis the king. This practice continued into the British period and was abhorred as a degrading form of ancient tyranny and abolished by the British in 1818 under the proclamation of November 21, 1818 by Governor Robert Brownrigg. Apart from having to continuously dress in full in the presence of the King, the Radalas didn't have to rise from their seats like other commoners when the king's dirty linen was taken past them (A Historical Relation of Ceylon, Robert Knox, Part II, Chapter2). They were permitted to use their own ancestral and military insignia, swords, umbrellas, jewellery and wear shoes. Some Chiefs were merely personal attendants of the King. The Diyawadana Nilame was the King's personal valet responsible for bathing and dressing of the King.\n\nThe traditional Kandyan Radala of the past had considered themselves to be an exclusive caste and not part of the Govigama caste. Bryce Ryan observed as recent as 1953 that Radalas repudiated Govi connections and that the status of the Govi caste still remains relatively low in villages where the Radala existed (Caste in Modern Ceylon, page 99). The demand by the Kandyan Radala elite for a separate federal state in independent Ceylon, the representations made to the Donoughmore Commission and the formation of the Kandyan National Assembly (KNA) as recently as in 1924 demonstrates the reluctance of the Kandyan elite to be governed by arriviste low country Govigama families of dubious ancestry, which was to be the inevitable outcome of the British departure.\n\nThe Radala's as a community had had significant power over the throne of Kandy. This was the case as the last Nayakar King of Kandy, Sri Wickrema Rajasinha lost his throne soon after losing the military and administrative support of the Radalas for his cruelty towards his subjects, and for his licentious forced affairs with their wives and daughters.\n\nAfter capturing the Kandyan provinces in 1815, the British soon created an extensive class of 'New Radalas' in the Kandyan territory to assist them with its administration.\nAs much as the British created class of Sri Lankan Mudaliyars in the low-country, this class too was composed of natives who were most likely to serve the British masters with utmost loyalty, Govigama (farmers) families that had either cooperated with the British to capture Kandy or from other miscellaneous lower caste families that had joined the British cause later for financial purposes.\n\nThey were all from anglicized families and were considered pillars of the Anglican church. They had English first names and their children too were similarly named. In addition they had a string of high sounding Sinhala names taken on when receiving their appointment from the British. Some of these names were from Kandyan families that had ceased to exist or were severely reduced, and from purported ancestors with dubious connections. The new British-made Radala class were immediately rejected by the original Kandyan Radalas. The new British-made Radalas tried unsuccessfully to rename themselves with the names of famous Kandyan Radalas such as the Keppitipolas, Mampitiyas, and Ranarajas. All these attempts were rejected by the British for fear of further dissent by the original Kandyan Radalas.\n\nMany of these 'New Radala' families had low-country origins and many intermarried with the anglicized low country Mudaliyar class, and in many cases several times with one family in an apparent bid to create some exclusivity. Most were from the Sabaragamuwa province and not from interior parts of the Kandyan provinces that were less susceptible to British influence. These New Radals too resembled English country squires and most of them had received large land grants from the British for their servitude. Their residences were of unprecedented scale, built in the 19th century in the British colonial style and were referred to by the Tamil word Walauu or Walvoo.\n\nThey generally held 'Rate Mahattaya' or local administrator positions and had studied under leading Anglican Priests at the Anglican missionary schools S.Thomas' College, Trinity College (Kandy) and High school Ratnapura, which were institutions set up by the British specifically for producing a class of loyal, local, second level administrators. With each successive batch of British Civil Servants and Governors arriving in Sri Lanka, this propped up pseudo-aristocratic group tried harder and harder to generate a greater and higher appearance of nobility and Kandyan lineage.\n\nHowever the descendants of the original Kandyan Radalas rarely marry the descendants of British-made Radalas or any other Govigamas for that matter. If any of them do, those people and all their descendants are classified as lower-caste outcastes by the descendants of the original Radala community.\n\nThe marriage in 1910 to Kandyan 'New Radala' Mollie Dunuwila, newspaper magnate D. R. Wijewardena's marriage in 1916 to a Meedeniya and finally S. W. R. D. Bandaranayake's marriage in 1940 to Sirimavo Ratwatte appear to have muted some of the antipathy and created the common political power block that has ruled the country since independence from the British in 1948. The Radalas however are still relatively endogamous and even as at date would only rarely marry an average Govigama in an arranged marriage. \n\n\"Nilame\" word referred to the court officials. The names of the officials were given according to their position in each dynasty. Due the development of language and change of requirements, the positions were changed and its names were changed. In Kandyan dynasty there are several officials in the court or \"Raja wasala\". They were Adigar and Dissava.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37445215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37445215", "title": "Ririo language", "text": "Ririo language\n\nRirio is a nearly extinct indigenous language of Choiseul Province, Solomon Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "13634640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13634640", "title": "Royal African Society", "text": "Royal African Society\n\nThe Royal African Society of the United Kingdom was founded in 1901 to promote relations between the United Kingdom and Africa. In addition to producing its journal \"African Affairs\" (, formerly \"Journal of the African Society\"), the Society promotes conferences and meetings. It is based in London. In the 1960s it was considered a social \"club for old .\"\n\nThe establishment of the society in 1901 grew out of the travels of Mary Kingsley, an English writer and explorer who travelled to Africa several times in the 1890s and greatly influenced European study of Africa. In 1893, Kingsley travelled to Luanda, Angola, where she lived with the indigenous peoples to learn their customs. In 1895 she returned to study cannibal tribes, travelled up the Ogooué River collecting specimens of previously undiscovered fish, and became the first European to climb Mount Cameroon. Upon her return to England, Kingsley upset many people, particularly the Church of England: she criticized missionaries, and supported many traditional aspects of African life, most controversially the practice of polygamy. Kingsley wrote that a \"black man is no more an undeveloped white man than a rabbit is an undeveloped hare\". The Royal African Society was formed to commemorate and continue Kingsley's work. \n\nThe society administers the African Studies Association of the UK (est. 1963).\n\nIn 2008, the RAS supported the launch of a London African Film Festival, in co-operation with Africa at the Pictures, and subsequently established the annual festival \"Film Africa\". In 2009, the RAS launched the African Arguments Book Series, published by Zed Books, which was followed by an online blogging platform, African Arguments Online. In 2012, the RAS established an annual literature festival called \"Africa Writes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6867521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6867521", "title": "South Indians in Fiji", "text": "South Indians in Fiji\n\nThe South Indians in Fiji are mainly descendents of the 15,132 indentured labourers who arrived in Fiji between 1903 and 1916. This represents about 25% out of a total of 60,965 indentured labourers who arrived in Fiji between 1879 and 1916. They embarked on ships from Madras and were mainly recruited in the districts of North Arcot, Madras, Krishna, Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Tanjore, Malabar and Coimbatore. More than half of the recruits from South India were recruited from North Arcot and Madras, but most of those recruited in Madras were originally from North Arcot and Chingleput.\n\nThe language spoken by the South Indian immigrant was only included in the emigration passes issued in 1903. Of the 589 labourers recruited in South India in 1903, the number of people speaking each language is shown below.\n\nIn later years more Telugu than Tamil speakers came from South India, as can be seen from subsequent census figures. According to the 1956 census, the number of households speaking each language was as follows:\n\nAlthough by 1956 Hindustani (Fiji Hindi) was being used in most Fiji households, the numbers still using South Indian languages indicate that there were twice as many Teluguas Tamils, and Malayalam was the third most common South Indian language. From 1929 to 1963, the ability to read and write in Tamil or Telugu was accepted as literacy qualification to be a voter for elections to the Legislative Council.\nIn 2005, it was revealed that in the 20 primary schools managed by TISI, out of the 4940 students, 1765 took Tamil classes and there were only 489 learning Telugu.\n\nThe South Indian immigrants were made up of a smaller proportion of Muslims (1,091 Muslims out of 15,132) and greater proportion of Christians than their North Indian counterparts. The Hindus, who form the majority, belonged to over a hundred different castes.\n\nAlthough South Indians were used to working overseas, most found it difficult to adjust to the Fiji Indian society already established in Fiji. Language was a major problem as they had to learn Hindustani, the language of the plantation. During indenture, there was a high suicide rate amongst South Indians.\n\nAt the end of his indenture period Kuppuswami Naidu, an ex-policeman and indentured labourer, took up the cause of the South Indians in Fiji. He gave up worldly pleasures, taking up the life of a \"sadhu\" (holy man). He was a devotee of Swami Vivekananda, Ramana Maha Rishi, Ramalinga Swamigal and Rama Krishna Paramahamsa. He later became known amongst his colleagues and South Indians in particular, as Sadhu Swami. He conceived the idea of a South Indian Organisation and worked, towards this goal with the help of other South Indians who could understand his feelings and were prepared to provide assistance towards the cause. According to the data published by TISI in 2002, Tamil was learnt by 1738 students in 17 schools between the grade 1-8 and Telugu by 255 students in 3 schools.\n\nSadhu Kuppuswami founded the \"Then India Sanmarga Ikya Sangam\" (TISI Sangam) after travelling to all parts of Fiji where South Indians were settled, and inspiring them to congregate at the Nadi Sri Siva Subramaniya Swami Temple on Swami Vivekananda's Birthday on 12 January in 1926, where they gave birth to the organisation which is today known as \"Sangam\". Sadhu Swami was elected the first President of Sangam and he remained its President for his lifetime..\n\nOn 26 December 1927, the Madras Maha Sangam, was formed in Suva by Verrappa Muthiah Pillai in Suva and branches were soon established in Levuka and Labasa. In 1937 the Madras Maha Sangam merged with the TISI Sangam.\n\nMaunatul Islam Association of Fiji (MIAF) represents approximately 30% of the Sunni Muslims in Fiji who are mostly followers of Imam Shafi. The followers of Imam Shafi in Fiji are the descendents of Muslims of Malayalam origin who came to Fiji under the indenture system from Kerala (Malabar) in South India between 1903 and 1916. The organisation originally operated under the name of Then India Maunatul Islam Association of Fiji since it was officially formed in 1942. The original officials were; President: Late Shahbud Dean, Vice President: Late Hajji Moidin Koya, Secretary: Mohammed Shafique, Treasurer: Late Hon A. R. Manu. One of the most famous past President and Speaker of the Association was the late Hon S.M. Koya, who was the leader of the National Federation Party and Leader of Opposition in Fiji for a number of years. The name of the Association was changed in 1982 to Maunatul Islam Association when a new constitution was drawn.\n\nThe early years the Sangam had its share of problems but the arrival, on 21 May 1937, of Swami Avinashananda from the Ramakrishna Mission of India, on the invitation of Sadhu Swami, saw the beginning of the golden years of Sangam. Although he spent just a brief period of eleven months in Fiji, Swami Avinashananda was able to consolidate the structure of Sangam and lay down the principles on which it was to function in later years. Swami Avinashananda had the Sangam legally registered as an organisation under the Company's act and A. D. Patel became its general manager. Thus legalised, Sangam and its community set forth in earnest to develop schools and temples to foster South Indian languages, culture and religion in all parts of Fiji. At present Sangam controls 21 Primary and 5 Secondary Colleges with innumerable Temples and Kindergartens spread throughout the country.\n\nSwami Avivashananda was replaced by Swami Rudrananda in 1939. He was soon followed by Rama Krishnan, a Tamil teacher, and Ganeshwar Rao, a Telugu teacher to teach South Indian mother tongues in the Sangam Schools, and to uplift the general standard of Sangam. Rama Krishnan was the first ever graduate teacher to be posted to Nadi Sangam School as its Head Teacher and Ganeshwar Rao worked with him as his assistant. As a dedicated teacher the late Rama Krishnan formed the Youth Wing known as the \"Then India Valibar Sangam\" (TIV Sangam) and introduced the Inter-District Competition in Soccer, athletics, and introduced Music and Art to encourage the development of South Indian language and culture.\n\nSwami Rudrananda consolidated and expanded the activities of T.I.S.I. Sangam based at Sangam Ashram in Nadi. He acquired properties for Sangam. These included freehold land at Savusavu (130 acres) and Madhuvani, Rakiraki (1037 acres). The Sangam Sarada Printing Press was started, on 15 August 1948, to cope with the educational needs of the community at large. Publications like \"Sangam\" in Tamil, \"Pacific Review\" in English, \"Jagriti\" in Hindi, and \"Na Pacifica\" in Fijian were published and circulated to give vent to the voice of the Indian community as a whole.\n\nSwami Rudrananda was fondly called as \"SarkkariSami\" by people as he was majorly working for the betterment of sugar cane workers.\n\nA Women's Wing was also formed in 1938 as the \"Then India Sanmarga Maathar Sangam\" which launched the very simple and humble charitable task of \"Pidi Arisi\", (A handful of rice) which every South Indian householder was required to set aside each day for charity before commencing their household cooking. This noble concept was introduced by Swami Avinashananda as one of the projects to assist in running a hostel for children of poor parents and others living far away from Nadi to gain education at Nadi Sangam School which was the first and the largest Sangam School for that time.\n\nThe TISI Sangam was dominated by the more numerous Telugus and concern by the minority Tamils about the promotion of their language led to the formation of their own Sangam. Under the leadership of Veeranna, the \"Dakshina India Andhra Sangam\" of Fiji was formed on 20 April 1941 at the Gallau Temple in Ra.\n\nThe Sangam, continued its pursuit to provide higher education to its pupils by becoming the first non-Government Organisation to start a private Secondary School, the Shri Vivekananda High School, on 9 March 1949. Shri Vivekananda High School began in a very humble way in the T.I.V. Sangam's Gymnasium Hall, in the Nadi Sangam Primary School compound, with 25 students, headed by Mr.K.S.Reddy as Principal and Messers Gopal Swami Naidu and Krishna Narsingha Rao as the two assistants. Students from all parts of Fiji, even as far away as Vanua Levu, came to attend the school. As this school grew in strength, it had to shift to the premises of Lora Murugan. It was here that Shri Vivekananda High School developed and later moved to its present site in Malolo and is now managed by the Ramakrishna Mission.\n\nSangam, Schools and Temples sprang up in different villages and settlements. The Colonial Sugar Refining Company assisted the Sangam by providing land to build schools and temples and having its Field Officers acting as school managers. Mother tongue was given priority over other subjects in the schools, and the South Indian languages and culture flourished throughout the country for several decades till the Sangam celebrated its Silver Jubilee in 1951.\n\nWith the advent of changes in the education system and introduction of new examinations in the Primary Schools, emphasis gradually shifted from vernacular and creative subjects to mere academic pursuit. Preparing students for examination became the hallmark for the teachers, and keen competition developed as to which school got the largest number of passes became the theme for parents, management and teachers alike. This shift in trend became the cause of the gradual decline of the South Indian languages as they were not examination subjects.\n\nConcern with the decline of South Indian culture and tradition led to the formation of \"Fiji Sutha Sanmarga Sangam\", a branch of Ramalinagar Sangam in Suva on 14 April 1966, under the leadership of Appa Pillai. He conducted a monthly South Indian program on Radio Fiji and travelled around the country teaching Tamil language and culture and distributing Tamil Readers sourced from India.\n\nWith the revival of the Annual Convention, Sangam members from all parts flocked to Lovu during the Easter Holidays of 1976 to rejuvenate the Sangam and later in the same year celebrated its Golden Jubilee from 8th to 10 October 1976 at Nadi. Once again the organisation was streamlined and the management commenced functioning smoothly under the new administration. The next decade from 1976 -1986 saw gradual improvement in the management and organisation of Sangam assets and properties, and attention was once again drawn towards the revival of the South Indian Languages, religion and culture. The revival of Sangam activities together with the arrival of Shivacharya Mahalinga Gurukkal whose services were made available to Nadi Siva Subramaniya Swamy Temple in 1984 by the Government of Tamil Nadu as the Chief Priest boosted the activities at the Temple, and devotees flocked to the Temple in very large numbers to witness and participate in the many new and unique religious ceremonies conducted at the Temple for the first time.\n\nIt was realised that a new and bigger National Temple was needed, and a move for acquiring a new site began in earnest. The foundation for a new temple had been laid at the old site in 1976 during the Golden Jubilee Celebrations by His Excellency the High Commissioner for the Government of India in Fiji. In 1983 new lease was acquired for the Crown land and the reconstruction programme began with the \"Bhoomi Pooja\" in January 1984, followed by the inauguration of building work by the late Deputy Prime Minister, in April 1984. The construction work moved another step forward in 1986 when the work of pile driving was completed under the chairmanship of Hon. Jai Ram Reddy. The actual Construction work began in earnest after a lull of some five years under a new Reconstruction Committee led by Narayan Reddy as the Chairman. The temple was built in the best traditions of ancient Dravidian Indian Temple architecture as well as the principles of sacred architecture of the Vastu Vedic tradition. The consecration ceremonies of their new national temple were held on July 15, 1994.\n\nSidiq Koya, who was the first Muslim to be elected to the Legislative Council, in 1963, was a South Indian. He became leader of the opposition National Federation Party (NFP) in 1969 and was instrumental in attaining independence for Fiji. He was succeeded, as leader of the NFP, by another South Indian, Jai Ram Reddy. Some other famous South Indians were M.N. Naidu, a businessman, Sadhu Kuppuswami, founder of TISI Sangam, Swami Rudrananda, missionary and farmers’ leader and politicians K. S. Reddy, Muniswamy Mudaliar, Ganesh Chand, and James Madhavan.\nManikam Pillai, Y.P. Reddy, S.V.Chetty\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5194696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5194696", "title": "Subak (irrigation)", "text": "Subak (irrigation)\n\nSubak is the water management (irrigation) system for paddy fields on Bali island, Indonesia which was developed in the 9th century. For the Balinese, irrigation is not simply providing water for the plant's roots, but water is used to construct a complex, pulsed artificial ecosystem. The system consists of five terraced rice fields and water temples covering nearly . The temples are the main focus of this cooperative water management, known as \"subak\".\n\nSubak is a traditional ecologically sustainable irrigation system that binds Balinese agrarian society together within the village's Bale Banjar community center and Balinese temples. The water managements is under the authority of the priests in water temples, who practice Tri Hita Karana Philosophy, a self-described relationship between humans, the earth and the gods. Tri Hita Karana draws together the realm of spirit, the human world and nature. The overall subak system exemplifies this philosophical principle. Water temple rituals promote a harmonious relationship between people and their environment through the active engagement of people with ritual concepts that emphasize dependence on the life-sustaining forces of the natural world. Rice is seen as the gift of god, and the subak system is part of temple culture.\n\nSubak components are the forests that protect the water supply, terraced paddy landscape, rice fields connected by a system of canals, tunnels and weirs, villages, and temples of varying size and importance that mark either the source of water or its passage through the temple on its way downhill to irrigate subak land.\nRice, the water required to grow rice, and subak, the cooperative canal system that controls the water, have together shaped the landscape over the past thousand years. Water from springs and canals flows through the temples and out onto the rice paddy field. In total, Bali has about 1,200 water collectives and between 50 and 400 farmers manage the water supply from one source of water. The property consists of five sites that exemplify the interconnected natural, religious, and cultural components of the traditional subak system. The sites include: the Supreme Water Temple of Pura Ulun Danu Batur on the edge of Mount Batur whose crater lake, (Lake Batur) is regarded as the ultimate origin of every spring and river; the Subak Landscape of the Pakerisan Watershed the oldest known irrigation system in Bali; the Subak Landscape of Catur Angga Batukaru with terraces mentioned in a 10th-century inscription making them amongst the oldest in Bali and prime examples of Classical Balinese temple architecture; and the Royal Water temple of Pura Taman Ayun, the largest and most architecturally distinguished regional water temple, exemplifying the fullest expansion of the subak system under the largest Balinese kingdom of the 19th century. These architectural sites are inspired by several different ancient religious traditions, including Saivasiddhanta and Samkhyā Hinduism, Vajrayana Buddhism and Austronesian cosmology.\n\nOn 6 July, 2012, subak was enlisted as a UNESCO world heritage site. Cultural Landscape of Bali Province: the Subak System as a Manifestation of the Tri Hita Karana Philosophy, consist of Supreme Water Temple \"Pura Ulun Danu Batu\"r and Lake Batur, Subak Landscape of \"Pakerisan\" Watershed, Subak Landscape of \"Catur Angga Baturkaru\", and Royal Temple of \"Taman Ayun\" has been inscribed upon a World Heritage List of The Conservation concerning the protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. Inscription on this list confirm the outstanding universal value of cultural or natural property which deserves protection for the benefit of all humanity.\n\nIn 1981, the Subak Museum opened in Tabanan Regency.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28075835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28075835", "title": "Sunset (bugle call)", "text": "Sunset (bugle call)\n\nSunset, also known as the Retreat Call, is a bugle call played in United Kingdom and British Commonwealth countries to signal the end of the official military day. It uses a slightly different melody to the US Retreat bugle call. In common with all bugle calls, it consists only of notes from a single overtone series. This allows it to be playable on a bugle or equivalently on a trumpet without moving the valves.\n\nThe call is regularly heard performed in an arrangement for full military band by Captain A.C. Green (1888–1974), who was Director of the Royal Naval School of Music's Junior Wing on the Isle of Man.\n\nThe arrangement was composed aboard HMS Queen Elizabeth in response to Admiral Fisher's desire for a \"spectacular show\" and was first performed in 1932 by the Massed Bands and Bugles of the Mediterranean Fleet. The Sunset call is now a regular part of the Royal Marines' \"Beat the Retreat\" ceremony, the call's melody also gives its name to \"Sunset Parades\" given in commemoration of former military conflicts. It is traditional to stand for the performance of the piece.\n\nTrumpet & Bugle Calls for the British Army marks this call for Royal Regiment of Artillery units only. The call would then be sounded on an E♭ Cavalry Trumpet.\n\n<poem>Sunset in the western sky,\nDarkness falls o'er land and sea\nPraise, Lord, we raise to you\nThis night and for evermore.\nWe think of loved ones near and far\nAnd those who've fought the fight before\nKeep safe your people, Lord\nThis night and for evermore.\nKeep safe your people, Lord\nThis night and for evermore\nThis night and for evermore.</poem>\n\nLyrics: Tim Marshall (Originally written for Festival of Remembrance 2009)\nArr: David Cole\n\n"}
{"id": "1346747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1346747", "title": "Thanjavur painting", "text": "Thanjavur painting\n\nThanjavur painting is a classical South Indian painting style, which was inaugurated from the town of Thanjavur (anglicized as Tanjore) and spread across the adjoining and geographically contiguous Tamil country. The art form draws its immediate resources and inspiration from way back about 1600 AD, a period when the Nayakas of Thanjavur under the suzerainty of the Vijayanagara Rayas encouraged art—chiefly, classical dance and music—as well as literature, both in Telugu and Tamil and painting of chiefly Hindu religious subjects in temples.It is distinguished by its famous gold coating. However, it can safely be surmised that Thanjavur painting, as we know it now, originated in the Maratha court of Thanjavur (1676 - 1855). It has been recognized as a Geographical indication by the Government of India in 2007-08.\n\nThanjavur paintings are characterised by rich, flat and vivid colors, simple iconic composition, glittering gold foils overlaid on delicate but extensive gesso work and inlay of glass beads and pieces or very rarely precious and semi-precious gems. In Thanjavur paintings one can see the influence of Deccani, Vijayanagar, Maratha and even European or Company styles of painting. Essentially serving as devotional icons, the subjects of most paintings are Hindu gods, goddesses, and saints. Episodes from Hindu Puranas, \"Sthala-puranas\" and other religious texts were visualised, sketched or traced and painted with the main figure or figures placed in the central section of the picture (mostly within an architecturally delineated space such as a \"mantapa\" or \"prabhavali\") surrounded by several subsidiary figures, themes and subjects. There are also many instances when Jain, Sikh, Muslim, other religious and even secular subjects were depicted in Tanjore paintings.\n\nThanjavur paintings are panel paintings done on wooden planks, and hence referred to as \"palagai padam\" (\"palagai\" = \"wooden plank\"; \"padam\" = \"picture\") in local parlance. In modern times, these paintings have become souvenirs for festive occasions in South India - colourful pieces of art to decorate walls, and collectors' items for art lovers, as also sadly sometimes, dime-a-dozen bric-a-bracs to be purchased from street corner practitioners.\n\nThanjavur has a unique place in the history of Indian painting, in that it houses the 11th century Chola wall paintings in the Brihadeeswarar temple (\"Periya koyil\" or \"Pervudaiyar koyil\" in Tamil) as also paintings from the Nayak period (many times superimposed on the earlier Chola paintings) dating to the 16th century. The fall of the Vijayanagar Empire and the sack of Hampi in the Battle of Talikota in 1565 CE resulted in the migration of painters who had been dependent on the patronage of the empire. Some of them migrated to Thanjavur and worked under the patronage of the Thanjavur Nayakas. Subsequently, the Maratha rulers who defeated the Thanjavur Nayakas began to nurture the Thanjavur atelier. Needless to say, the artists absorbed the local influences and the individual tastes of their Maratha patrons which helped evolve the unique Thanjavur style of painting. The Thanjavur artists in addition to decorating temples also began painting and decorating the major buildings, palaces, \"chatrams\" and residences of the Maratha kings and nobility.\n\nThe Vijayanagar empire, founded by Harihara and Bukka, was for long a bulwark against the rapidly advancing Islamic influence from the nearby Deccan and the farther North. While the foreign influences did gradually percolate into the Peninsular South, the Vijayanagar empire ensured that the older Hindu artistic traditions were protected and preserved.\nThe empire had reached its zenith under Krishnadevaraya (1509–29). Its territory stretched across the entire South Indian peninsula, from the Tungabhadra river in the North to Kanyakumari in the south and the Malabar coast on the Arabian sea in the west to the Coromandel coast on the Bay of Bengal in the east at its peak. In 1521-22, Krishnadevaraya travelled to the Tamil country \"(Tamilagam)\" visiting holy places and as was his wont, made munificent donations to temples and other religious establishments. It can be surmised that some of this munificence was also channeled into art and artists.\n\nThe Vijayanagar Rayas administered their vast kingdom through Nayaka Governors who also administered the outlying provinces or states under the supervision of the Raya. The third important Nayaka state in Tamil country, Thanjavur, (Senji and Madurai being the others) had been established under the reign of Krishnadevaraya's half-brother and successor Achyutaraya (1529–42). The Thanjavur Nayaka line commenced with Sevappa Nayaka (1532–72). Sevappa ruled for several years, ably supported by his son Achyutappa (1564-1614), who later succeeded him. It was during Achyutappa's reign that the Vijayanagara empire fell, leading to the exodus of numerous litterateurs, philosophers, musicians and artists who migrated to several other neighbouring kingdoms like Mysore and Thanjavur. Achyutappa was succeeded by his son Raghunatha Nayaka who in turn was succeeded by Vijayaraghava Nayaka. Raghunatha, who was possibly the most successful Thanjavur Nayaka ruler, was also a great patron of art and artists and helped establish the unique school of Thanjavur artists who later evolved the Thanjavur style of paintings under the Marathas.\n\nDue to internal dissensions in the Nayaka line, Ekoji otherwise called Venkoji (1676–83), half-brother of Chatrapati Shivaji marched into Thanjavur on behalf of the Adil Shah of Bijapur under whom he was a General. He subsequently captured Thanjavur and established the Maratha rule. Despite intermittent wars, when Thanjavur was overrun first by the Nawab of Arcot and later by Haidar Ali, Ekoji and his successors like Tulajaji, Serfoji II (\"Sarabhoji\" in Tamil) and others remained great patrons of the arts and artists. By the time Serfoji II succeeded to the Maratha throne in Thanjavur, the Britishers had taken over the complete administration of the state, retaining the king in only a nominal capacity to exercise power over the fort and a smidgen of surrounding lands . Though Serfoji II had to fight off a spirited competition from Amarasimha, his paternal uncle, to the Maratha throne of Thanjavur, it was during his reign that Thanjavur painting flourished and reached the form and style in which we recognise it today. Serfoji II had to traverse a difficult path throughout his reign, being constantly challenged by Amarasimha who ran a parallel court in Thiruvidaimarudur even after his accession. However, despite the troubled times, Serfoji's reign was a time of great innovations in Thanjavur art and many other parallel fields.\n\nThe Maratha rule came to a sad end after the death of its last ruler Shivaji II, (resembling only in name his vastly greater ancestor) who died without a male issue, when the Britishers obliged by annexing the Thanjavur state to its dominions under the notorious Doctrine of Lapse. After the Maratha rule waned, the mercantile Chettiar community continued to patronise the Thanjavur artists. The Chettiars being staunch Shaivites encouraged Shaivite themes. One of their monasteries in Koviloor has large Thanjavur paintings on the lives of the 63 Nayanmars (Saivaite saints) and the 64 miracles (\"Thiruvilaiyadal Puranam\") of Lord Shiva minutely labelled in Tamil. Similarly, the Bhimarajagoswami monastery in Thanjavur has a large painting of 108 Vishnu temples. The Britishers who had come into Thanjavur in the wake of the Anglo-Mysore wars also patronised Thanjavur artists and their paintings.\n\nThanjavur paintings were made in various sizes depending upon the function, the subject and the choice of the patron. Large paintings of deities and the Maratha rulers, their courtiers and nobility, were painted and installed to serve as architectural accents in the Maratha palaces and buildings. To quote Dallapiccola - ' \"The works, executed on canvas pasted on a wooden support, were framed - a major departure from the pan-Indian tradition, in which paintings are of small size - and designed to be hung on the walls of domestic puja rooms or in bhajan halls. The themes, as in painted albums, (made for European patrons) were usually gods and goddesses, holy places, religious personalities and occasionally portraits. Their dazzling palette consisted generally of vivid reds, deep greens, chalk white, turquoise blues and the lavish use of gold (foil) and inset glass beads. Sometimes precious stones were also used in the paintings. The large format of the majority of such works and the relatively simple composition are the hallmark of the style. This school was greatly inspired by European techniques and was the most popular in Tamil Nadu until the early twentieth century.\"'\n\nPaintings in addition to being done on canvas, were also done on walls, wooden panel, glass, paper, mica and exotic media such as ivory. Small Ivory portraits were typically worn as cameo pendants called \"rajaharam\" and were quite popular.\n\nThanjavur glass paintings following the techniques of Chinese reverse glass paintings were popularised during Serfoji II's reign as a cheaper and faster craft. The paintings were done on the reverse surface of a glass sheet with strips of metal beaten into transparent gaps to simulate the effect of jewellery and precious stones. Most of the paintings were of Hindu deities & saints. Other courtly and secular portraits were also created.\n\nA Thanjavur Painting was generally made on a canvas pasted over a plank of wood (Jackfruit or teak) with Arabic gum. The canvas was then evenly coated with a paste of French chalk (\"gopi\") or powdered limestone and a binding medium and dried. The artist then drew or traced using a stencil, a detailed outline of the main and subsidiary subjects on the canvas. A paste, made of limestone powder and a binding medium called \"sukkan\" or \"makku\", was used for creating the Gesso work. Gold leaves and gems of varied hues were inlaid in selected areas like pillars, arches, thrones, dresses, etc. Finally, colours were applied on the sketch.\n\nIn the past, artists used natural colours like vegetable and mineral dyes, whereas the present day artists use chemical paints. For outlines dark brown or red was usually used. Red was favoured for the background, though blue and green were also used. Lord Vishnu, was coloured blue, and Lord Nataraja chalk white, and his consort Goddess Sivakami was green. The sky, of course, was blue, but black was also employed on occasions. The portrayal of figures in the paintings was also typical with almost all the figures having rounded faces with almond-shaped eyes and smooth, streamlined bodies. The composition is static and two-dimensional with the figures placed within arches, curtains and decorative borders. The main subject is much larger than the other subjects and occupies the centre of the painting. Seraphs or angels resembling those in European paintings and Islamic miniatures were also shown flanking the main figure. The figures were painted with bright flat colours except for the face where shading was shown. The shading in Thanjavur art was more to create a feeling of depth than to conform to the European conventions of lighting and perspective.\n\nThere are some examples of this art in the Saraswathi Mahal Library, in Tanjore built by Serfoji II. The Sanskrit work \"Prabotha Chandrodayam\" in the library has a few pages of Tanjore art as also Marathi translations of \"Mahabharata & Bhagavatham\" in which are found the works of the painter Madhava swami dated 1824 AD. Faint traces of Maratha style paintings inset with glass are found on the walls of the Thiruvaiyaru Chatram built by Serfoji after his pilgrimage to Kashi. Many other buildings in and around Thanjavur have fine examples of the paintings on the roofs and walls, though many are gradually disappearing and dying due to serious neglect and stupid acts of vandalism.\n\nThe Government Museum, Chennai and the Thanjavur Art Gallery, Thanjavur also house fine collections of Thanjavur paintings depicting the Maratha kings of Thanjavur and other allied subjects. Many private museums and collectors also possess enviable collections of Thanjavur paintings.\n\nThe British and Victoria & Albert museums in England also house a large collection of Thanjavur paintings in the company and traditional styles. The National Museum of Copenhagen also houses a fine collection of 17th century Thanjavur paintings. King Christian IV of Denmark had received permission to build a fort at Tranquebar ( \"Tharangambadi\" in Tamil) which led to the building of the Danesborg fort as also a Danish relationship with Thanjavur which resulted in the museum collection.\n\nTanjore paintings were painted by 'Moochys or Artists of India' according to the British chronicler Charles Gold in his book \"Oriental Drawings\" published in 1806. Traditionally, it is well known that the Raju community of Thanjavur and Tiruchi, also called as Jinigara or Chitragara and the Nayudu community of Madurai were the artists who executed paintings in the Thanjavur style. The artists (Rajus & Naidus) were originally Telugu speaking people from the artistically vibrant \"Rayalseema\" region of Andhra, who moved to Tamil Nadu in the wake of the fall of the Vijayanagar empire and the establishment of Nayak rule in Madurai and Thanjavur.\n\nThe artists turned out a wide repertoire of paintings on different subjects and of varied quality depending upon the patron's interest, urgency and most importantly influence and financial capacity. However, the art was by and large a sacred task to be performed with a reasonable degree of ritual purity and humility by the master craftsmen, many of whom chose to remain anonymous and never signed their paintings, true to the Indian artistic tradition. However a few works signed by the Thanjavur artists are also known. C. Kondiah Raju, the famous calendar artist from Kovilpatti, was one of the illustrious descendants to make a name as an artist during modern times from the Raju community.\n\nThe Tanjore style of paintings spring from a late phase of South Indian classical art, when the society in which it originated was itself going through turbulent times. Needless to say, Tanjore paintings are informed by a syncretic style, notable for its assimilation of the contemporary diverse cultural influences - Tamil, Telugu, Maratha, European, Deccani, Folk, etc. The style drew heavily from the other major South Indian styles of painting which were all deeply influenced by the Vijayanagar school. The closest influences among these could be the Kalamkari and Tirupati paintings.\n\nTirupati paintings, in particular were produced in the famous temple town using different media and techniques, like painted terracotta reliefs, brass repousse works, paintings on paper and canvas, etc. The commonest examples were painted and gilded terracotta relief slabs of the deity, framed and packaged in neat wooden boxes which could be carried back as holy memorabilia and worshipped in the \"Puja room\" by the pilgrim-devotee. Paintings of the main deity, gilded and gem-set, in a manner similar to Tanjore paintings are also known.\n\nTanjore paintings were also closely related to the crafts of painted and carved wood on the one hand and gilded, stone set jewellery work which flourished in Thanjavur. It is also pertinent to remember that Thanjavur art was functional, in that it was made for a specific purpose on a specific demand from a customer. And it is also in the same context that one understands the iconic style of Thanjavur paintings in contrast to say, the Pahari miniatures or even Surpur paintings.\n\nTanjore and Mysore paintings, both spring from the same source - Vijayanagara paintings to begin with and Nayaka paintings subsequently. The very same artists, Chitragars and Naidus migrated to various places including Thanjavur and Mysore. This is the reason for the remarkable degree of similarity between the two styles. However, there are many differences that can be made out by the discerning viewer.\n\nThe differences are largely in the techniques used to create these artworks and in their distinct iconography. The techniques adopted by the Mysore artists are slightly different from those of the Tanjore School. While Tanjore School used white lime powder and powdered tamarind seeds with gum arabic on cloth stretched on wooden panels, Mysore artists used white lead powder (\"Makhisafeda\") or \"Makhi Gamboge\" (yellow) drawn from the juice of the indigenous tree (\"Revana Chinni halu\") on paper. The paper sometimes was pasted to a wooden board, but mostly was framed as it was. As against the high relief of the Tanjore 'Gesso' work used prominently across large areas of the painting, the Mysore school preferred low relief, in selected areas such as jewellery, clothing, and borders. The Mysore school used pure gold leaf in lesser quantity as against gold-coated silver leaf handled across larger areas in the painting by Tanjore artists. The use of glass beads, precious and semi precious stones is also very rare in Mysore paintings. More elaborate and detailed interior and exterior landscapes are featured in Mysore paintings, whereas Tanjore paintings tend to be more iconic and static. In Mysore paintings, the jewellery, costumes, architectural features, furniture, etc. reflect the contemporary style prevalent in the Mysore Palace. The throne on which Gods and Goddesses are shown seated is usually a replica of the Mysore throne in many Mysore paintings.\n\nBoth styles however, frequently show traditional temple pavilions (\"prabhavalis\") and towers particularly for framing the main characters. However the geographical proximity, constant transmigration of artists and a heavy cross fertilisation of ideas and techniques ensured that one could see Tanjore paintings employing Mysore techniques and vice versa.\n\nMany of the traditional Indian artists were also patronised by Europeans, beginning with the Portuguese who landed on the west coast in 1498. Gradually the other Europeans followed suit and commissioned local artists to paint in the so-called company style. While no specific character or technique marked out the Company school of paintings, it can be understood to mean the large body of paintings painted by Indian artists in a mixed Indo-European style which would appeal to the Europeans who were employed by the various East India Companies.\n\nThe direct European impact on Tanjore paintings began with the stationing of a British garrison in Thanjavur in 1773, during the Anglo-Mysore Wars of 1767-99. Throughout the nineteenth century, artists based in and around Thanjavur prepared, by and large a standard sets of paintings for the Company personnel. These sets were called albums or album paintings and were a collection of 'native' or 'Indian' subjects of interest, suited to the English sensibilities and tastes. Common subjects were Gods and Goddesses, episodes from Hindu mythology; Fairs, ceremonies, processions and festivals; Castes, their occupations and dresses; Indian Flora and Fauna, etc. These paintings were executed by the same Tanjore artists in a style suited to western tastes. The paintings were usually executed on European paper, without gesso work, little or no Gold foil and without any glass or gem inlay. The paintings would also carry a brief description ( most times extremely quaint and so typically English) of the subject in English and sometimes in Tamil or Telugu. Paintings on cloth backed by wooden panels were also executed for the English patrons. Many of these were carried to England where they probably enlivened many an evening tea! The British Museum and The Victoria and Albert Museum have an enviable collection of such paintings.\n\nThough the British patronised paintings tend to be grouped under the Company style of paintings, they were Tanjore paintings in spirit. In addition to being executed by the same traditional group of artists in Thanjavur and the neighbouring Tamil country, the style and characterisation in these paintings are very typically Thanjavur as against the style of say, Company paintings executed in Calcutta or Lucknow.\n\nThanjavur paintings continue to be made even to the present day, though not with the rigour and virtuosity that marked the paintings of yore. 'Revival' programmes, Exhibitions, Workshops and Training camps on Thanjavur paintings are being held regularly by many institutions including State Governments. The materials used have also changed according to the cost, ease of availability and the choice of individual artists. Plywood, for example has by and large replaced Jack and teak wood. Synthetic colours and adhesives are preferred over the natural and mineral colours and other traditional components. In addition to the traditional subjects, a wide range of popular and modern subjects and themes are being depicted in Thanjavur paintings. While it is a happy development that this traditional art continues to hold its sway, the brazen commercialisation and lack of aesthetics are disturbing trends. Be that as it may, Thanjavur paintings - the style and aesthetics continue to inspire many contemporary artists. The Calendar prints of C. Kondiah Raju and his student followers, marked by an iconic solidness as against the western naturalism of Raja Ravi Varma, are examples of the continued influence of Tanjore paintings in modern, popular and academic art.\n\nArtists have taken this old form of art and over the years combined it with other styles to create mixed media arts. For example, tanjores are also done on mirrors, glass and canvas. The idea of applying gold foil is unique to this traditional art, so this same style is taken and recreated on different mediums. \n\n"}
{"id": "33879786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33879786", "title": "The Stories of Ibis", "text": "The Stories of Ibis\n\nThe light novel was published in Japanese by Kadokawa Shoten and in English by Viz Media under their 'Haikasoru' imprint.\n\nThe Stories of Ibis is told through a collection of short stories. All but two had been previously published. The two that Yamamoto wrote for the novel were 'The Day Shion Came' and 'AI's Story'. This is similar to The Illustrated Man by Ray Bradbury. Yamamoto drew from Bradbury's idea of short stories that were loosely connected. He represented this influence in the novel by giving Ibis a facial tattoo.\n\nThe Stories of Ibis begins with a wandering storyteller who encounters Ibis. He has the mindset that all robots are a threat to humanity and must be fought against for survival. He attacks the robot Ibis, not aware of who she is, as a result of his mindset. Ibis tells the storyteller that she is far more proficient in battle. During the battle the storyteller becomes injured and Ibis takes him to an android hospital to care for him. While he is recovering Ibis offers to tell him stories. While originally skeptical he agrees after Ibis makes it clear that the stories are not taboo. The space after each story is referred to as intermission and is a time for Ibis to comment on the story she just told.\n\nThe story is about a group of friends who are writing a science fiction story over the internet. One of the group members kills someone in real life. The rest of the short story is about how the group fights to convince this man to not commit suicide, but to turn himself in. He resolves to turn himself in, being hopeful to the future because he knows he has friends who care about him. The ending words of the story are a commentary. While the story they were writing was not real, the emotions they were feeling were real.\n\nThis is another story about human interactions over the internet. The device that allows people to enter virtual reality (VR) is MUGEN Net. Such devices are extremely expensive and most people need to go to a public server to use one. However the girl's parents in this story are wealthy enough to own one. This girl is shopping in VR when a boy meets her and asks her out for ice cream. All goes well and they plan for another. After some time of VR dating and awesome adventures with a female heroine, they agree to meet up in real life. He discovers that in reality, she is blind, yet he thinks she is brave and they continue dating. It's a wonderful short story of a secret utopia inside a dystopian culture of technology.\n\nA short story about an artificial intelligence that grows over time with human interaction. The inspiration for this story was Ray Bradbury's I Sing the Body Electric. The mirror girl Shalice starts off with basic knowledge and by interacting with her owner develops. The owner grows up and marries a technician who incubates Shalice by teaching her in the virtual world at many thousand times faster than average life. When he is done, Strong Eye is created. Strong Eye is the fully developed and completely intelligent AI.\n\nA futuristic story about an artificial space station and people who go diving into a black hole. The space station cannot stop people but is sorry that they go to their deaths because none of them get past the event horizon. Then one girl comes who has the space ship, the training, and the research necessary to attempt to dive into the black hole. As she goes into the black hole the space station can no longer observe. She may have made it, she could have been destroyed.\n\nAn anime flavored story about the intelligence of people being scanned onto a computer network. The AIs in the network fight crime and live repeating lives. At the end of each year they start anew, but different story lines. Thousands of 'extras' populate the network and are the ones subject to harm and deletion. The protagonist has a pen pal in real life who explains to her that the real world is under attack and that there are no respawns and no extras. The AI finds this so cruel that people would willingly kill each other when they can't come back.\n\nThe stories leading up to this were all relatively short. This and the next took up over 100 pages each. This is a story about an android named Shion who works in a Japanese nursing facility. Shion comes with only extensive nursing training but lacks the knowledge of how to communicate with the residents. After months of training she informs her adviser that she believes all humans have dementia, which explains their irrational behavior. Near the end of the story one of the residents threatens suicide but Shion convinces him to step down and be rational.\n\nThe culminating story of the entire novel. It is about Ibis herself. She starts off as a virtual reality fighting program and overtime develops intelligence. Her master gains enough funds to create her a body in the real world or level 0. There is significant hate against TAIs (True Artificial Intelligence) in the real world. Ibis and her friend Raven rebel against their masters to make a point. Human hatred was destroying them. After many years robots took prevalence and most humans realized they were not worthy to be the guardians of Earth and died in peace. The remaining population was stubborn and fought against the robots for centuries. The storyteller is a child of this generation, being raised in hatred and ignorance. The robots sought to take him captive, and teach him the truth so that he could go to the villages where people lived and teach them the truth. The whole point was they cared for the humans and wanted them to live in peace, rather than fighting for their survival.\n\nIt was reviewed by the Denver Post to be an \"excellent novel\". Being a Japanese translated to English novel it has a small audience. The novel was given a 3.85 of 5 by the reviewers at Librarything.com. The reviewers of Google Books gave it a 4.33 of 5.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55404885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55404885", "title": "Transracial (identity)", "text": "Transracial (identity)\n\nTransracial people are individuals who assert a racial identity for themselves which differs from their birth ethnicity. \n\nA prominent example of a person who identifies as transracial is Rachel Dolezal, who is of white descent but identifies as black. Martina Big, who was featured on \"Maury\" in September 2017, is another white woman who identifies as black. Big has had tanning injections administered by a physician to darken her skin and hair.\n\nIn April 2017, the feminist philosophy journal \"Hypatia\" published an academic paper in support of recognizing transracialism and drawing parallels between \"transracial\" and transgender individuals. Publication of this paper resulted in considerable controversy. The subject was also explored in \"\", a 2016 book by UCLA sociology professor Rogers Brubaker, who argues that the phenomenon, though offensive to many, is psychologically real to many people, and has many examples throughout history.\n\nThe use of the term \"transracial\" to describe changing racial identity has been criticized by the transracial adoption community. The term \"transracial\" has historically been used in the adoption community to describe parents who adopt a child of a different race. Members of the transracial adoption community assert that the term \"transracial\" has a specific historical meaning related to such adoptions, and argue that the term is being \"appropriated and co-opted\" in a manner that harms the transracial adoption community. In June 2015, about two dozen transracial adoptees, transracial parents and academics published an open letter that condemned the use of the term \"transracial\" to describe white women assuming cultural markers to identify as black, calling such use \"erroneous, ahistorical, and dangerous.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1516511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516511", "title": "Women in India", "text": "Women in India\n\nThe status of women in India has been subject to many great changes over the past few millennia. With a decline in their status from the ancient to medieval times, to the promotion of equal rights by many reformers, their history has been eventful. In modern India, women have held high offices including that of the President, Prime Minister, Speaker of the Lok Sabha, Leader of the Opposition, Union Ministers, Chief Ministers and Governors.\n\nWomen's rights under the Constitution of India mainly include equality, dignity, and freedom from discrimination; additionally, India has various statutes governing the rights of women.\n\n, the President of India, the Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha (Lower House of the parliament) have been women. However, women in India continue to face numerous problems such as sexual assault gender inequality and dowry.\n\nWomen during the early Vedic period enjoyed equal status with men in all aspects of life. Works by ancient Indian grammarians such as Patanjali and Katyayana suggest that women were educated in the early Vedic period. Rig Vedic verses suggest that women married at a mature age and were probably free to select their own husbands in a practice called swayamvar or live-in relationship called Gandharva marriage. The Rig Veda and Upanishads mention several women sages and seers, notably Gargi Vachaknavi and Maitreyi (c. 7th century BCE).\n\nOriginally, women were allowed to undergo initiation and study the Vedas. In the Dharmasutra of Harita, it is mentioned that:\nIn Mahabharata, the story of Draupadi's marriage to 5 men is a case in point. This pointed to the fact that polygamy was matched with polyandry during the Vedic era. Women could select their husband in an assembly called 'swayamwar'. In this practice, the father of the woman would invite all the men and the woman would select one, and marry him while the court watched. This clearly showed how women's rights were taken seriously during the Vedic era. This practice was prevalent till the 10th century A.D.\n\nAlso, in the Puranas, every God was shown in consort of their wives (Brahma with Saraswathi, Vishnu with Lakshmi and Shiva with Parvati). Idols of god and goddess were depicted with equal importance to both genders. Separate temples were setup for goddesses, and within each temple, goddesses were treated and worshipped with as much care and devotion as the gods were. There are also specific practices that endure to this day, in terms of preference of worship.\n\nThe book \"Hindu Female Deities as a resource for contemporary rediscovery of the Goddess\" by Gross Rita.M, 1989, says\n\n\"\"According to some scholars the positive constructions of femininity found in goddess imagery and in the related imagery of the virangana or heroic woman have created a cognitive framework, for Hindus to accept and accommodate powerful female figures like \"Indira Gandhi and Phoolan Devi, The same would not have been possible in Western religious traditions \"\"\n\nEven in the practice of Homa ( ritual involving fire, and offerings to fire), every mantra or Shloka is addressed to Swaha, the wife of Agni, instead of Agni himself. Devi Bhagavata Purana: 9.43, says that all requests to Agni had to be made through his wife only.\n\n\"O Goddess, Let yourself become the burning power of fire; who is not able to burn anything without thee. At the conclusion of any mantra, whoever taking thy name (Svaha), will pour oblations in the fire, he will cause those offerings to go directly to the gods. Mother, let yourself, the repository of all prosperity, reign over as the lady of his (fire's) house.\"\n\nThis aspect of Swaha as Agni's wife is mentioned in Mahabharata, Brahmavantara Purana, Bhagavatha Purana as various hymns.\n\nIn the 6th or 5th century BCE, Queen Mṛgāvatī (in Sanskrit, or Migāvatī (in Prakrit) of the Vatsa mahajanapada ruled as regent while her son Udayana was either a minor or held captive by a rival king, and she earned \"the admiration of even experienced ministers.\"\n\nIn the Gupta period instances are not rare of women participating in administrative job. Chandragupta I, founder of the Gupta Empire, ruled the kingdom jointly with his queen Kumara Devi. Prabhavatigupta was the daughter of Chandra Gupta II of the Gupta Empire and the wife of Rudrasena II of the Vakataka dynasty, and performed administrative duties in her kingdom. Instances of women of the upper classes extending their phase of activities beyond the domestic circle are provided by the queen and queens regent in Kashmir, Rajasthan, Orissa and Andhra. Institutions were established for co-education. In the work called Amarkosh written in the Gupta era names of the teachers and professors are there and they belonged to female sex.\n\nIn the 2nd century BCE, Queen Nayanika (or Naganika) was ruler and military commander of the Satavahana Empire of the Deccan region (south-central India). Another early female ruler in South Asia was Queen Anula of Anuradhapura (Sri Lanka, 1st century BCE).\n\nQueen Orrisa assumed regency when her son died in the late ninth century and immediately involved herself in military adventuring. Queen Kurmadevi of Mevad commanded her armies on the battlefield in the late twelfth century. Queen Didday of Kashmir ruled as full sovereign for twenty-two years, and Queen Jawahirabi fought and died at the head of her army.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, Queen Sugula led her armies against the southern king, her nephew. When pressed by the royal forces, she guided her forces into the mountains, where she built a number of forts. Sugula held out against the king's army for ten years and is remembered in Sri Lankan history as \"Sugula, the rebel queen fearless\".\n\nThe Muslim conquest in the Indian subcontinent brought changes to Indian society. The position of Indian women in society deteriorated during this period. The purdah system and Jauhar are attributable to the Muslim rules that existed from 10th century onwards. \n\nThe Rajputs of Rajasthan, started the practice of Jauhar after a century of Islamic invasions in the 10th century. The early Islamic invasions in Sindh did not result in Jauhar, as is evident from the history of Raja Dahir or Sindh. After the attack by Muhammad bin Qasim in the 8th century, and the killing of Raja Dahir, his wife and daughters were sent off as sex slaves to Damascus. This type of slavery prevalent in 10th century may have resulted in the evolution of Jauhar in Western India, which were the first parts of India exposed to invasions from the Persian and Turkish empires.\n\nPolygamy was practised among Hindu Kshatriya rulers. However, this practice may not be considered a uniform social behavior, as at the same time, there were kingdoms which practised polyandry also. Nair warrior communities in Kerala practiced polyandry for centuries, during the medieval period up to the British 18th century.\n\nThe status of women of Islamic faith followed Islamic precepts, and rules of Sharia. Women were restricted to Zenana areas of the house, had to wear the Burqa or niqab, and were not allowed to venture outside alone without a male guardian. Their rights were dictated by the Sharia law, which prevented women from getting a share of the inherited wealth.\n\nApastamba sutra (c. 4th century BCE) captures some prevalent ideas of the role of women during the post Vedic ages. The Apastamba Sutra shows the elevated position of women that existed during the 4th century B.C.:\n\n\"A man is not allowed to abandon his wife (A 1.28.19).\"\n\n\"He permits daughters to inherit (A 2.14.4).\"\n\n\"There can be no division of property between a husband and a wife, because they are linked inextricably together and have joint custody of the property (A 2.29.3).\"\n\n\"Thus, a wife may make gifts and use the family wealth on her own when her husband is away (A 2.12.16–20).\"\n\n\"Women are upholders of traditional lore, and Āpastamba tells his audience that they should learn some customs from women (A 2.15.9; 2.29.11).\"\n\n\"The Stri Dharma Paddhati\" of Tryambakayajvan, an official at Thanjavur c. 1730 says the following about the role of women: This book shows that role of women during marriage had been specified clearly, and the patriarchal view of society had emerged clearly, as they detail the service of women to men in marriage.\n\nHowever, there were cases of women often becoming prominent in the fields of politics, literature, education and religion also during this period. Razia Sultana (1205-1240) became the only woman monarch to have ever ruled Delhi. The Gond queen Durgavati (1524-1564) ruled for fifteen years before losing her life in a battle with Mughal emperor Akbar's general Asaf Khan in 1564. Chand Bibi defended Ahmednagar against the powerful Mughal forces of Akbar in the 1590s. Jehangir's wife Nur Jehan effectively wielded imperial power, and was recognised as the real power behind the Mughal throne. The Mughal princesses Jahanara and Zebunnissa were well-known poets, and also influenced the ruling powers. Shivaji's mother, Jijabai, was queen regent because of her ability as a warrior and an administrator. Tarabai was another female Maratha ruler. In South India, many women administered villages, towns, and divisions, and ushered in new social and religious institutions.\n\nJijabai was the mother of Shivaji, founder of the Maratha Empire.\n\nAkka Mahadevi was a prominent figure of the Veerashaiva Bhakti movement of the 12th century Karnataka. Her Vachanas in Kannada, a form of didactic poetry, are considered her most notable contribution to Kannada Bhakti literature.\n\nTo quote Sir Lepel Griffin K.C.S, from his books on Sikh history, the Sikh women\n\n\"\"have on occasions shown themselves the equals of men in wisdom and administrative ability.\" Usually the dowager ranis were up to commendable works. A passing reference of the role of some of them towards the end of the eighteenth century and in the first half of the nineteenth century may not be out of place here. Rani Sada Kaur, widow of Sardar Gurbakhsh Singh Kanaihya and mother-in-law of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, was well versed in the affairs of the state and commanded her soldiers in the battle-field. She was a very shrewd lady with a thorough grasp of statecraft. Mai Desan, the widow of Charhat Singh Sukarchakia, was a great administrator, an experienced and a wise diplomat who conducted the civil and military affairs dexterously.\"\"\n\nHe quotes many women, who had served the Sikh cause including \nand many more are quoted in his works.\n\nAmong the few women in history to save a kingdom by sheer force and willpower, in the Maratha empires \n\nThere have been positive practices of women as subject of respect in India, and there have been regressive practices as well. Here are some practices\n\nIn Kerala’s Alappuzha district, an ancient temple called Chakkulathu Kavu holds an exceptionally remarkable annual ritual of worshipping women in the month of December.\n\nPopularly known as Naari Puja, the ritual is conducted every year on the first Friday of \"Dhanu maasam\". The chief priest of the temple himself conducts the puja.Thousands of women are worshipped during the ceremony regardless of the caste, religion or creed they belong to. Women are seated on a chair (\"peetom\") for the ritual and the chief priest washes their feet. The women are later garlanded and offered flowers.\n\nSati was an old defunct custom among some communities, in which the widow was immolated alive on her husband's funeral pyre. After the foreign invasions of Indian subcontinent, this practice started to mark its presence, as women were often raped or kidnapped by the foreign forces. It was abolished by the British in 1829. There have been around forty reported cases of Sati since Indian independence. In 1987, the Roop Kanwar case in Rajasthan led to The Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act.\n\nPurdah is the practice among some Muslim communities requiring women to cover themselves for the purpose of modesty.\n\nDevadasi or Devaradiyar means “servant of God”. These women were dedicated to God and were considered given in marriage to God, meaning that they could therefore not marry any ‘mortal’. Nevertheless, they were free to choose partners, from among married and unmarried men alike. These relationships could be long and stable, or just for a short period of time. But in no way were these women economically dependent on their partners. They learned music and dance, and as many as 64 types of arts. They would dance and sing in temples or in front of royalty and earn gold and land as a reward. Some chose to dedicate themselves only to God and stayed without a partner all through their life. The tradition of Devadasi culture can be traced back to as early as the 7th century, particularly in southern parts of India during the reigns of the Cholas, Chelas, and Pandyas. The women were well treated and respected, and held a high social status in the society. It was common for them to be invited to be present at or initiate sacred religious rituals. As long as the temples and empires flourished, so did they. With the death of the empires, the Devadasi practice degenerated into a practice of sex labour, and child prostitution. A law banning the practice of Devadasi prostitution was enacted.\n\nDuring the British Raj, many reformers such as Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Jyotirao Phule fought for the betterment of women. Peary Charan Sarkar, a former student of Hindu College, Calcutta and a member of \"Young Bengal\", set up the first free school for girls in India in 1847 in Barasat, a suburb of Calcutta (later the school was named Kalikrishna Girls' High School).\n\nWhile this might suggest that there was no positive British contribution during the Raj era, that is not entirely the case. Missionaries' wives such as Martha Mault née Mead and her daughter Eliza Caldwell née Mault are rightly remembered for pioneering the education and training of girls in south India. This practice was initially met with local resistance, as it flew in the face of tradition. Raja Rammohan Roy's efforts led to the abolition of Sati under Governor-General William Cavendish-Bentinck in 1829. Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar's crusade for improvement in the situation of widows led to the Widow Remarriage Act of 1856. Many women reformers such as Pandita Ramabai also helped the cause of women.\n\nKittur Chennamma, queen of the princely state Kittur in Karnataka, led an armed rebellion against the British in response to the Doctrine of lapse. Abbakka Rani, queen of coastal Karnataka, led the defence against invading European armies, notably the Portuguese in the 16th century. Rani Lakshmi Bai, the Queen of Jhansi, led the Indian Rebellion of 1857 against the British. She is now widely considered as a national hero. Begum Hazrat Mahal, the co-ruler of Awadh, was another ruler who led the revolt of 1857. She refused deals with the British and later retreated to Nepal. The Begums of Bhopal were also considered notable female rulers during this period. They were trained in martial arts.\n\nChandramukhi Basu, Kadambini Ganguly and Anandi Gopal Joshi were some of the earliest Indian women to obtain a degree.\n\nIn 1917, the first women's delegation met the Secretary of State to demand women's political rights, supported by the Indian National Congress. The All India Women's Education Conference was held in Pune in 1927, it became a major organisation in the movement for social change. In 1929, the Child Marriage Restraint Act was passed, stipulating fourteen as the minimum age of marriage for a girl. Though Mahatma Gandhi himself married at the age of thirteen, he later urged people to boycott child marriages and called upon young men to marry child widows.\n\nWomen in India now participate fully in areas such as education, sports, politics, media, art and culture, service sectors, science and technology, etc. Indira Gandhi, who served as Prime Minister of India for an aggregate period of fifteen years, is the world's longest serving woman Prime Minister.\n\nThe Constitution of India guarantees to all Indian women equality (Article 14), no discrimination by the State (Article 15(1)), equality of opportunity (Article 16), equal pay for equal work (Article 39(d)) and Article 42. In addition, it allows special provisions to be made by the State in favour of women and children (Article 15(3)), renounces practices derogatory to the dignity of women (Article 51(A) (e)), and also allows for provisions to be made by the State for securing just and humane conditions of work and for maternity relief. (Article 42).\n\nFeminist activism in India gained momentum in the late 1970s. One of the first national-level issues that brought women's groups together was the Mathura rape case. The acquittal of policemen accused of raping a young girl Mathura in a police station led to country-wide protests in 1979-1980. The protests, widely covered by the national media, forced the Government to amend the Evidence Act, the Criminal Procedure Code, and the Indian Penal Code; and created a new offence, custodial rape. Female activists also united over issues such as female infanticide, gender bias, women's health, women's safety, and women's literacy.\n\nSince alcoholism is often associated with violence against women in India, many women groups launched anti-liquor campaigns in Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and other states. Many Indian Muslim women have questioned the fundamental leaders' interpretation of women's rights under the Shariat law and have criticised the triple talaq system (see below about 2017).\n\nMary Roy won a lawsuit in 1986, against the inheritance legislation of her Keralite Syrian Christian community in the Supreme Court. The judgement ensured equal rights for Syrian Christian women with their male siblings in regard to their ancestral property. Until then, her Syrian Christian community followed the provisions of the Travancore Succession Act of 1916 and the Cochin Succession Act, 1921, while elsewhere in India the same community followed the Indian Succession Act of 1925.\n\nIn the 1990s, grants from foreign donor agencies enabled the formation of new women-oriented NGOs. Self-help groups and NGOs such as Self Employed Women's Association (SEWA) have played a major role in the advancement of women's rights in India. Many women have emerged as leaders of local movements; for example, Medha Patkar of the Narmada Bachao Andolan.\n\nIn 1991, the Kerala High Court restricted entry of women above the age of 10 and below the age of 50 from Sabarimala Shrine as they were of the menstruating age. However, on 28 September 2018, the Supreme Court of India lifted the ban on the entry of women. It said that discrimination against women on any grounds, even religious, is unconstitutional.\n\nThe Government of India declared 2001 as the Year of Women's Empowerment (\"Swashakti\"). The National Policy For The Empowerment Of Women came was passed in 2001.\n\nIn 2006, the case of Imrana, a Muslim rape victim, was highlighted by the media. Imrana was raped by her father-in-law. The pronouncement of some Muslim clerics that Imrana should marry her father-in-law led to widespread protests, and finally Imrana's father-in-law was sentenced to 10 years in prison. The verdict was welcomed by many women's groups and the All India Muslim Personal Law Board.\n\nAccording to a 2011 poll conducted by the Thomson Reuters Foundation, India was the \"fourth most dangerous country\" in the world for women, India was also noted as the worst country for women among the G20 countries, however, this report has faced criticism for promoting inaccurate perceptions.\nOn 9 March 2010, one day after International Women's day, Rajya Sabha passed the Women's Reservation Bill requiring that 33% of seats in India's Parliament and state legislative bodies be reserved for women. In October 2017 another poll published by Thomson Reuters Foundation found that Delhi was the fourth most dangerous megacity (total 40 in the world) for women and it was also the worst megacity in the world for women when it came to sexual violence, risk of rape and harassment.\n\nIn 2014, an Indian family court in Mumbai ruled that a husband objecting to his wife wearing a kurta and jeans and forcing her to wear a sari amounts to cruelty inflicted by the husband and can be a ground to seek divorce. The wife was thus granted a divorce on the ground of cruelty as defined under section 27(1)(d) of Special Marriage Act, 1954.\n\nOn 22 August 2017, the Indian Supreme Court deemed instant triple talaq (\"talaq-e-biddat\") unconstitutional.\n\nIn 2018, a survey by Thomson Reuters Foundation termed India as the world's most dangerous country for women due to high risk of sexual violence. Although National Commission for Women rejected the report stating that \"the sample size was small in the number of people surveyed and could in no way reflect the state of affairs in a country of 1.3 billion people\". National Commission for Women (NCW) also pointed out that there could be no doubt that India is far ahead of a number of countries in terms of women's rights. The survey was similarly rejected by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies on the grounds that it lacked transparency with respect to sample size and possible selection bias. The report has also been rejected by the Indian government. Union minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore criticized the Indian National Congress for using this survey to damage the reputation of the Modi government and that the survey that was based on \"perception\" and \"afar from any solid facts or numbers\".\n\nAlso in 2018, the Supreme Court of India struck down a law making it a crime for a man to have sex with a married woman without the permission of her husband.\n\nThe steady change in the position of women can be highlighted by looking at what has been achieved by women in the country:\n\n\n\nIndia has one of the highest number of female politicians in the world. Women have held high offices in India including that of the President, Prime Minister, Speaker of the Lok Sabha and Leader of the Opposition.\nThe Indian states Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan and Tripura have implemented 50% reservation for women in PRIs. Majority of candidates in these Panchayats are women. Currently 100% of elected members in Kodassery Panchayat in Kerala are women. There are currently 2 female chief ministers in India as of Sept 2018.\n\nAs of 2018, 12 out of 29 states and the union territory of Delhi have had at least one female Chief Minister.\n\nThe status of women in India is strongly connected to family relations. In India, the family is seen as crucially important, and in most of the country the family unit is patrilineal. Families are usually multi-generational, with the bride moving to live with the in-laws. Families are usually hierarchical, with the elders having authority over the younger generations, and men over women. The vast majority of marriages are monogamous (one husband and one wife), but both polygyny and polyandry in India have a tradition among some populations in India. Weddings in India can be quite expensive. Most marriages in India are arranged.\n\nWith regard to dress, a sari (a long piece of fabric draped around the body) and salwar kameez are worn by women all over India. A \"bindi\" is part of a woman's make-up. Despite common belief, the bindi on the forehead does not signify marital status; however, the Sindoor does.\n\nRangoli (or Kolam) is a traditional art very popular among Indian women.\n\nIn Indian culture, families usually start their day with worship.\n\nIn 1991, the Kerala High Court restricted entry of women above the age of 10 and below the age of 50 from Sabarimala Shrine as they were of the menstruating age. On 28 September 2018, the Supreme Court of India lifted the ban on the entry of women. It said that discrimination against women on any grounds, even religious, is unconstitutional.\n\n\"The Indian way of life provides the vision of the natural, real way of life. We veil ourselves with unnatural masks. On the face of India are the tender expressions which carry the mark of the Creator's hand.\"...George Bernard Shaw\n\nThe Indian Armed Forces began recruiting women to non-medical positions in 1992. The Indian Army began inducting women officers in 1992. The Border Security Force (BSF) began recruiting female officers in 2013. On 25 March 2017, Tanushree Pareek became the first female combat officer commissioned by the BSF.\n\nOn 24 October 2015, the Indian government announced that women could serve as fighter pilots in the Indian Air Force (IAF), having previously only been permitted to fly transport aircraft and helicopters. The decision means that women are now eligible for induction in any role in the IAF. In 2016, India announced a decision to allow women to take up combat roles in all sections of its army and navy.\n\nAs of 2014, women made up 3% of Indian Army personnel, 2.8% of Navy personnel, and 8.5% of Air Force personnel. As of 2016, women accounted for 5% of all active and reserve Indian Armed forces personnel.\n\nIn March 2018, Delhi Police announced that it would begin to induct women into its SWAT team.\n\nAccording to 1992-93 figures, only 9.2% of the households in India were headed by women. However, approximately 35% of the households below the poverty line were found to be headed by women.\n\nThough it is sharply increasing, the female literacy rate in India is less than the male literacy rate. Far fewer girls than boys are enrolled in school, and many girls drop out. In urban India, girls are nearly on a par with boys in terms of education. However, in rural India, girls continue to be less educated than boys. According to the National Sample Survey Data of 1997, only the states of Kerala and Mizoram have approached universal female literacy. According to scholars, the major factor behind improvements in the social and economic status of women in Kerala is literacy.\n\nUnder the Non-Formal Education programme (NFE), about 40% of the NFE centres in states and 10% of the centres in UTs are exclusively reserved for women. As of 2000, about 300,000 NFE centres were catering to about 7.42 million children. About 120,000 NFE centres were exclusively for girls.\n\nAccording to a 1998 report by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the chief barriers to female education in India are inadequate school facilities (such as sanitary facilities), shortage of female teachers and gender bias in the curriculum (female characters being depicted as weak and helpless).\n\nThe literacy rate is lower for women compared to men: the literacy rate is 60.6% for women, while for men it is 81.3%. The 2011 census, however, indicated a 2001–2011 decadal literacy growth of 9.2%, which is slower than the growth seen during the previous decade. There is a wide gender disparity in the literacy rate in India: effective literacy rates (age 7 and above) in 2011 were 82.14% for men and 65.46% for women. (population aged 15 or older, data from 2015).\n\nContrary to common perception, a large percentage of women in India are actively engaged in traditional and non-traditional work. National data collection agencies accept that statistics seriously understate women's contribution as workers. However, there are far fewer women than men in the paid workforce. In urban India, women participate in the workforce in impressive numbers. For example, in the software industry 30% of the workforce is female.\n\nIn rural India in the agriculture and allied industrial sectors, women account for as much as 89.5% of the labour force. In overall farm production, women's average contribution is estimated at 55% to 66% of the total labour. According to a 1991 World Bank report, women accounted for 94% of total employment in dairy production in India.\n\nWomen constitute 51% of the total employed in forest-based small-scale enterprises.\n\nIn 2017, a study by Monster Salary Index (MSI) showed the overall gender pay gap in India was 20 percent. It found that the gap was narrower in the early years of experience.\n\nWhile men with 0–2 years of experience earned 7.8 percent higher median wages than women, in the experience group of 6–10 years of experience, the pay gap was 15.3 percent. The pay gap becomes wider at senior level positions as the men with 11 and more years of tenure earned 25 percent higher median wages than women.\n\nBased on the educational background, men with a bachelor’s degree earned on average 16 percent higher median wages than women in years 2015, 2016 and 2017, while master’s degree holders experience even higher pay gap. Men with a four- or five-year degree or the equivalent of a master’s degree have on average earned 33.7 percent higher median wages than women.\n\nWhile India passed the Equal Remuneration Act way back in 1976, which prohibits discrimination in remuneration on grounds of sex. But in practice, the pay parity still exist.\n\nOne of the most famous female business success stories, from the rural sector, is the Shri Mahila Griha Udyog Lijjat Papad. Started in 1959 by seven women in Mumbai with a seed capital of only Rs.80,($15), it had an annual turnover of more than Rs. 800 crore (over $109 million) in 2018. It provides employment to 43,000 (in 2018) women across the country.\n\nOne of the largest dairy co-operatives in the world, Amul, began by mobilizing rural women in Anand in the western state of Gujarat.\n\nIn 2006, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, who founded Biocon, one of India's first biotech companies, was rated India's richest woman. Lalita D. Gupte and Kalpana Morparia were the only businesswomen in India who made the list of the Forbes World's Most Powerful Women in 2006. Gupte ran ICICI Bank, India's second-largest bank, until October 2006 and Morparia is CEO of JP Morgan India.\n\nShaw remained the richest self-made woman in 2018, coming in at 72nd place in terms of net worth in Forbes's annual rich list. She was the 4th and last female in the list, thereby showing that 96 of 100 the richest entities in the country continued to be male controlled directly or indirectly.\n\nAccording to the ‘Kotak Wealth Hurun – Leading Wealthy Women 2018’ list, which compiled the 100 wealthiest Indian women based on their net worth as on 30 June 2018 Shaw was only one of two women, the other being Jayshree Ullal, who did not inherit their current wealth from family relatives in the top ten.\n\nHowever, India has a strong history of many women with inherited wealth establishing large enterprises or launching successful careers in their own rights.\n\nIn most Indian families, women do not own any property in their own names, and do not get a share of parental property. Due to weak enforcement of laws protecting them, women continue to have little access to land and property. In India, women's property rights vary depending on religion, and tribe, and are subject to a complex mix of law and custom, but in principle the move has been towards granting women equal legal rights, especially since the passing of The Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005.\n\nThe Hindu personal laws of 1956 (applying to Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs, and Jains) gave women rights to inheritances. However, sons had an independent share in the ancestral property, while the daughters' shares were based on the share received by their father. Hence, a father could effectively disinherit a daughter by renouncing his share of the ancestral property, but a son would continue to have a share in his own right. Additionally, married daughters, even those facing domestic abuse and harassment, had no residential rights in the ancestral home. Thanks to an amendment of the Hindu laws in 2005, women now have the same status as men.\n\nIn 1986, the Supreme Court of India ruled that Shah Bano, an elderly divorced Muslim woman, was eligible for alimony. However, the decision was opposed by fundamentalist Muslim leaders, who alleged that the court was interfering in their personal law. The Union Government subsequently passed the Muslim Women's (Protection of Rights Upon Divorce) Act.\n\nSimilarly, Christian women have struggled over the years for equal rights in divorce and succession. In 1994, all churches, jointly with women's organizations, drew up a draft law called the Christian Marriage and Matrimonial Causes Bill. However, the government has still not amended the relevant laws. In 2014, the Law Commission of India has asked the government to modify the law to give Christian women equal property rights.\n\nCrime against women such as rape, acid throwing, dowry killings, honour killings, and the forced prostitution of young girls has been reported in India. Police records in India show a high incidence of crimes against women. The National Crime Records Bureau reported in 1998 that by 2010 growth in the rate of crimes against women would exceed the population growth rate. Earlier, many crimes against women were not reported to police due to the social stigma attached to rape and molestation. Official statistics show a dramatic increase in the number of reported crimes against women.\n\nA Thomas Reuters Foundation survey says that India is the fourth most dangerous place in the world for women to live in. The survey itself has been criticized for bias. Women belonging to any class, caste, creed or religion can be victims of this cruel form of violence and disfigurement, a premeditated crime intended to kill or maim permanently and act as a lesson to put a woman in her place. In India, acid attacks on women who dared to refuse a man's proposal of marriage or asked for a divorce are a form of revenge. Acid is cheap, easily available, and the quickest way to destroy a woman's life. The number of acid attacks has been rising.\n\nChild marriage has been traditionally prevalent in India but is not so continued in Modern India to this day. Historically, child brides would live with their parents until they reached puberty. In the past, child widows were condemned to a life of great agony, shaved heads, living in isolation, and being shunned by society. Although child marriage was outlawed in 1860, it is still a common practice. The Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929 is the relevant legislation in the country.\n\nAccording to UNICEF’s \"State of the World’s Children-2009\" report, 47% of India's women aged 20–24 were married before the legal age of 18, rising to 56% in rural areas. The report also showed that 40% of the world's child marriages occur in India.\n\nDomestic violence in India is endemic. Around 70% of women in India are victims of domestic violence, according to Renuka Chowdhury, former Union minister for Women and Child Development. Domestic violence was legally addressed in the 1980s when the 1983 Criminal Law Act introduced section 498A \"Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty\".\n\nThe National Crime Records Bureau reveal that a crime against a woman is committed every three minutes, a woman is raped every 29 minutes, a dowry death occurs every 77 minutes, and one case of cruelty committed by either the husband or relative of the husband occurs every nine minutes. This occurs despite the fact that women in India are legally protected from domestic abuse under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act.\n\nIn India, domestic violence toward women is considered as any type of abuse that can be considered a threat; it can also be physical, psychological, or sexual abuse to any current or former partner. Domestic violence is not handled as a crime or complaint, it is seen more as a private or family matter. In determining the category of a complaint, it is based on caste, class, religious bias and race which also determines whether action is to be taken or not. Many studies have reported about the prevalence of the violence and have taken a criminal-justice approach, but most woman refuse to report it. These women are guaranteed constitutional justice, dignity and equality but continue to refuse based on their sociocultural contexts. As the women refuse to speak of the violence and find help, they are also not receiving the proper treatment.\n\nIn 1961, the Government of India passed the Dowry Prohibition Act, making dowry demands in wedding arrangements illegal. However, many cases of dowry-related domestic violence, suicides and murders have been reported. In the 1980s, numerous such cases were reported.\n\nIn 1985, the Dowry Prohibition (maintenance of lists of presents to the bride and bridegroom) Rules were framed. According to these rules, a signed list should be maintained of presents given at the time of the marriage to the bride and the bridegroom. The list should contain a brief description of each present, its approximate value, the name of who has given the present, and relationship to the recipient. However, such rules are rarely enforced.\n\nA 1997 report claimed that each year at least 5,000 women in India die dowry-related deaths, and at least a dozen die each day in 'kitchen fires' thought to be intentional. The term for this is \"bride burning\" and is criticised within India itself. Amongst the urban educated, such dowry abuse has reduced considerably.\n\nIn 2011, the National Crime Records Bureau reported 8,618 dowry deaths. Unofficial estimates claim the figures are at least three times as high.\n\nIn India, the male-female sex ratio is skewed dramatically in favour of men, the chief reason being the high number of women who die before reaching adulthood. Tribal societies in India have a less skewed sex ratio than other caste groups. This is in spite of the fact that tribal communities have far lower income levels, lower literacy rates, and less adequate health facilities. Many experts suggest the higher number of men in India can be attributed to female infanticides and sex-selective abortions. The sex ratio is particularly bad in the north-western area of the country, particularly in Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nUltrasound scanning constitutes a major leap forward in providing for the care of mother and baby, and with scanners becoming portable, these advantages have spread to rural populations. However, ultrasound scans often reveal the sex of the baby, allowing pregnant women to decide to abort female foetuses and try again later for a male child. This practice is usually considered the main reason for the change in the ratio of male to female children being born.\n\nIn 1994 the Indian government passed a law forbidding women or their families from asking about the sex of the baby after an ultrasound scan (or any other test which would yield that information) and also expressly forbade doctors or any other persons from providing that information. In practice this law (like the law forbidding dowries) is widely ignored, and levels of abortion on female foetuses remain high and the sex ratio at birth keeps getting more skewed.\nFemale infanticide (killing of infant girls) is still prevalent in some rural areas. Sometimes this is infanticide by neglect, for example families may not spend money on critical medicines or withhold care from a sick girl.\n\nContinuing abuse of the dowry tradition has been one of the main reasons for sex-selective abortions and female infanticides in India.\n\nHonor killings have been reported in northern regions of India, mainly in the Indian states of Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, as a result of the girl marrying without the family's acceptance, and sometimes for marrying outside her caste or religion. Haryana is notorious for incidents of honour killings, which have been described as \"chillingly common in villages of Haryana\". In contrast, honor killings are rare to non-existent in South India and the western Indian states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. In some other parts of India, notably West Bengal, honor killings completely ceased about a century ago, largely due to the activism and influence of reformists such as Vivekananda, Ramakrishna, Vidyasagar and Raja Ram Mohan Roy.\nIn 2010, the Supreme Court of India issued notice in regard to honor killings to the states of Punjab, Haryana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.\n\nViolence against women related to accusations of witchcraft occurs in India, particularly in parts of Northern India. Belief in the supernatural among the Indian population is strong, and lynchings for witchcraft are reported by the media. In Assam and West Bengal between 2003 and 2008 there were around 750 deaths related to accusations of witchcraft. Officials in the state of Chhattisgarh reported in 2008 that at least 100 women are maltreated annually as suspected witches.\n\nRape in India has been described by Radha Kumar as one of India's most common crimes against women and by the UN’s human-rights chief as a \"national problem\". Since the 1980s, women's rights groups lobbied for marital rape to be declared unlawful, but the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 still maintains the marital exemption by stating in its exception clause under Section 375, that: \"Sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape\". While per-capita reported incidents are quite low compared to other countries, even developed countries, a new case is reported every 20 minutes.\n\nNew Delhi has one of the highest rate of rape-reports among Indian cities. Sources show that rape cases in India have doubled between 1990 and 2008.\n\nEve teasing is a euphemism used for sexual harassment or molestation of women by men. Many activists blame the rising incidents of sexual harassment against women on the influence of \"Western culture\". In 1987, The Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act was passed to prohibit indecent representation of women through advertisements or in publications, writings, paintings or in any other manner.\n\nOf the total number of crimes against women reported in 1990, half related to molestation and harassment in the workplace. In 1997, in a landmark judgement, the Supreme Court of India took a strong stand against sexual harassment of women in the workplace. The Court also laid down detailed guidelines for prevention and redressal of grievances. The National Commission for Women subsequently elaborated these guidelines into a Code of Conduct for employers. In 2013 India's top court investigated on a law graduate's allegation that she was sexually harassed by a recently retired Supreme Court judge. The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act came into force in December 2013, to prevent Harassment of women at workplace.\n\nA study by ActionAid UK found that 80% of women in India had experienced sexual harassment ranging from unwanted comments, being groped or assaulted. Many incidents go unreported as the victims fear being shunned by their families.\n\nThe Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act was passed in 1956. However many cases of trafficking of young girls and women have been reported. These women are forced into prostitution or domestic work or child labour.\n\nCentre for Equality and Inclusion (CEQUIN), alternatively spelled in the press as Center for Equality and Inclusion, is a non-governmental organisation based in India that works towards female empowerment and women's rights.\n\nIn the wake of several brutal rape attacks in the capital city of Delhi, debates held in other cities revealed that some men believed women who dressed provocatively deserved to get raped; many of the correspondents stated women incited men to rape them.\n\nThe degree to which women participate in public life, that is being outside the home, varies by region and background. For example, the Rajputs, a patrilineal clan inhabiting parts of India, especially the north-western area, have traditionally practiced ghunghat, and many still do to this day. In recent years however, more women have started to challenge such social norms: for instance women in rural Haryana are increasingly rejecting the ghunghat. In India, most population (about two thirds) is rural, and, as such, lives in tight-knit communities where it is very easy for a woman to ruin her family's 'honor' through her behavior. The concept of family honor is especially prevalent in northern India. Izzat is a concept of honor prevalent in the culture of North India and Pakistan. Izzat applies to both sexes, but in different ways. Women must uphold the 'family honor' by being chaste, passive and submissive, while men must be strong, brave, and be willing and able to control the women of their families. The rural areas surrounding Delhi are among the most conservative in India: it has been estimated that 30% of all honor killings of India take place in Western Uttar Pradesh, while Haryana has been described as \"one of India's most conservative when it comes to caste, marriage and the role of women. Deeply patriarchal, caste purity is paramount and marriages are arranged to sustain the status quo.\"\n\nThe average female life expectancy today in India is low compared to many countries, but it has shown gradual improvement over the years. In many families, especially rural ones, girls and women face nutritional discrimination within the family, and are anaemic and malnourished. Almost half of adolescent girls are chronically malnourished. In addition, poor nutrition during pregnancy often leads to birth complications.\n\nThe maternal mortality in India is the 56th highest in the world. 42% of births in the country are supervised in Medical Institution. In rural areas, most of women deliver with the help of women in the family, contradictory to the fact that the unprofessional or unskilled deliverer lacks the knowledge about pregnancy.\n\nThe average woman living in a rural area in India has little or no control over becoming pregnant. Women, particularly in rural areas, do not have access to safe and self-controlled methods of contraception. The public health system emphasises permanent methods like sterilisation, or long-term methods like IUDs that do not need follow-up. Sterilisation accounts for more than 75% of total contraception, with female sterilisation accounting for almost 95% of all sterilisations. The contraceptive prevalence rate for 2007/2008 was estimated at 54.8%.\n\nLower caste women in India have seen significant improvement in their status. Educated and financially well-off Dalit women used politics to achieve status, however, that many Dalit women who were involved in politics later declined due to increasing income and educational levels. The status of Dalit women within households is also noted to have been improved.\n\nIndia has a highly skewed sex ratio, which is attributed to sex-selective abortion and female infanticide affecting approximately one million female babies per year. In, 2011, government stated India was missing three million girls and there are now 48 less girls per 1,000 boys. Despite this, the government has taken further steps to improve the ratio, and the ratio is reported to have been improved in recent years.\n\nThe number of missing women totaled 100 million across the world. The male-to-female ratio is high in favor toward men in developing countries in Asia, including India, than that of areas such as North America. Along with abortion, the high ratio of men in India is a result of sex selection, where physicians are given the opportunity to incorrectly determine the sex of a child during the ultrasound. India currently has a problem known as the \"missing women\", but it has been present for quite some time. The female mortality in 2001 was 107.43. The deaths of these \"missing women\" were attributed to the death history rate of women in India starting in 1901.\n\nThe gap between the two gender titles is a direct response to the gender bias within India. Men and women in India have unequal health and education rights. Male education and health are made more of a priority, so women’s death rates are increasing. The argument continues that a lack of independence that women are not allowed to have is a large contributor to these fatalities. Women in India have high fertility and get married at a young age. Those who are given more opportunity and rights are more likely to live longer and contribute to the economy rather than that of a women expected to serve as wife starting at a young age and continuing the same responsibilities for the rest of her life. As women continue to \"disappear,\" the sex ratio turns its favor toward men. In turn, this offsets reproduction and does not allow for a controlled reproductive trend. While the excess mortality of women is relatively high, it cannot be blamed completely for the unequal sex ratio in India. However, it is a large contributor considering the precedence that Indian men have over women.\n\nIn rural areas, schools have been reported to have gained the improved sanitation facility. Given the existing socio-cultural norms and situation of sanitation in schools, girl students are forced not to relieve themselves in the open unlike boys. Lack of facilities in home forces women to wait for the night to relieve themselves and avoid being seen by others. Access to sanitation in Bihar has been discussed. According to an estimate from 2013, about 85% of the rural households in Bihar have no access to a toilet; and this creates a dangerous situation for women and girls who are followed, attacked and raped in the fields.\n\nIn 2011 a \"Right to Pee\" (as called by the media) campaign began in Mumbai, India's largest city. Women, but not men, have to pay to urinate in Mumbai, despite regulations against this practice. Women have also been sexually assaulted while urinating in fields. Thus, activists have collected more than 50,000 signatures supporting their demands that the local government stop charging women to urinate, build more toilets, keep them clean, provide sanitary napkins and a trash can, and hire female attendants. In response, city officials have agreed to build hundreds of public toilets for women in Mumbai, and some local legislators are now promising to build toilets for women in every one of their districts.\n\n\n\nLists of Indian women by profession:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34324645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34324645", "title": "Xeno-canto", "text": "Xeno-canto\n\nxeno-canto is a citizen science project in which volunteers record, upload and annotate recordings of birdsong and bird calls. All the recordings are published under one of the Creative Commons licenses, including some with open licences.\nThe data has been re-used in scientific papers. The website is supported by a number of academic and birdwatching institutions worldwide, with its primary support being in the Netherlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "48596576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48596576", "title": "Youth in Mongolia", "text": "Youth in Mongolia\n\nYouth in Mongolia constituted 18.7% of the population in 2014, numbering roughly 552 thousand individuals. The 15-19 age group is the largest in Mongolia; in 2009 about 40% of the population was under 19 years old. Estimated population growth rates as of 2014 were reported as increasing by 1.37%. The steady increase in youth will enlarge the already large proportion of working-aged individuals and create new opportunities to build human capital and facilitate economic development. In order to address Mongolia's economic future, Mongolia's Parliament adopted the State Population Development Policy in 2004 to confront development issues facing Mongolian youth. This policy and the Mongolia National Programme on Adolescents and Youth Development defined youth as those from ages 15 to 34 years and aims to provide opportunities and services that build youth into well developed citizens. Mongolia is in the process of transitioning from its status as a developing country to a nation with a developing economy. According to the Human Development Index, conditions in Mongolia have been improving in recent years, but its ranking on the Human Poverty Index has dropped further due to the privatization of the economic sector.\n\nMongolia's political structure has changed frequently since its founding in 1206. In the most recent transition to democracy in 1992, Mongolia incorporated policies directed towards youth. Mongolia became one of the first countries to ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1990 and signed the second and third optional protocols in 2000 and 2013 respectively. Many of Mongolia’s laws and policies attempt to protect and better the lives of Mongolian youth.The legal age of majority occurs at 18, wherein Mongolian young adults are able to vote and assume legal authority. The transition from a Soviet satellite state to a sovereign nation in 1992 fueled major structural changes in Mongolian youth lives. Access to education, employment, and health care has increased.\n\nThe transition to a market based economy has impacted the Mongolian education system and labor market. The formal school system comprises pre-school, primary, secondary and higher education. Based on Soviet models, the Mongolian education system requires 10 years of schooling.The current system has a 4+4+2 structure; four years of primary education, four years of basic or incomplete secondary education, and complete secondary school for the final two years. The Mongolian Constitution, Education Law, and the Law on Primary and Secondary Education dictates that eight years of compulsory education are free. \n\nBefore 1990, education attainment was higher than the current rate. Rural and urban boys are prone to dropping out of school to obtain low skill and low wage employment. The World Health Organization found in 2007 that 8,775 school-aged children were not in school. Of these 8,775 children, 59.1% of drop-outs were boys and of this percentage 91.3% were boys from rural areas. Rural boys are two times more likely to receive no education at all or have below compulsory education over girls due to the need for boys to help their family herd cattle. The gender parity index has revealed that more boys are enrolled in primary education (GPI=0.97) but more girls are enrolled in secondary (GPI=1.08) and tertiary education (GPI=1.54). Parents are more inclined to send young girls to school in order to secure their futures whereas young boys are more likely to inherit family property by surviving in harsh working conditions.\n\nMultiple disparities exist between educational attainment in rural and urban settings. In rural areas, 6.4% of youth receive no education, which is three times higher compared to urban youth. The transition to a market system is the cause of higher illiteracy and drop out rates because many poor, rural households experienced economic hardships after the closure of cooperative farms.\n\nRegional constraints affect the availability of education, most commonly in rural areas. Statistical analysis has found a high correlation rate between parents and children’s educational attainment. Human capital gained and transferred from the educational level of parents is directly correlated with that of their children. Youth with vast human capital are able to move to larger aimag centers to continue their studies. Most higher secondary education and colleges are only available in large city’s like Mongolia’s capital Ulaanbaatar. \n\nUnder the Labor Law and the Ministry of Social Welfare and Labor, Mongolian youth can legally work when they are 15 years old with parental permission, and those aged 14 can begin vocational training and employment. Labor codes dictate that the working week is 40 hours and 36 hours for those under 18.\n\nCulturally appropriate jobs are rarely found by Mongolian youth, which translates into high youth unemployment rates in urban areas and very low productivity in rural areas. Private sector growth has been slow after the transition to capitalism, which has increased youth unemployment in urban areas and consequently many households resort to youth leaving school and taking employment in the agricultural sector.\n\nThe 2006 School-to-Work Transition Survey revealed that of the youth surveyed 22.8% were unemployed and were registered with the employment office. In the same survey 66.1% of youth were employed as unpaid family workers, 23.9% had paid work and 8.3% were self-employed, 0.9% had a part-time job and 0.9% were employed but absent from work. Only one out of two jobs are wage paying jobs and are more commonly held by urban youth. Young women are more likely to be self-employed in urban areas, whereas young men are more frequently self-employed in rural locations. Gender gaps in employment opportunities are present, in which young men have a higher unemployment rate compared to female counterparts. Women at younger ages have lower unemployment rates due to higher educational attainment, and consequently higher rates of long-term unemployment.\n\nAcademic training is preferred over technical education and vocational skills which has resulted in unfilled positions in trades. In total, unemployment rates were 15.3% lower for youth with vocational degrees compared to 11.6% of youth with tertiary degrees. Underage employment is common in rural communities particularly in the herding and mining sectors. Underage urban youth may work in poor working conditions generally in informal markets such as manufacturing. In 2009 56,000 5-17 year olds were engaged in child labor, 43,000 were below the minimum working age of 15 and 13,000 15-17 year olds were involved in hazardous work.\n\nIssues related to sexual and reproductive health, tobacco and alcohol usage, infectious disease and environmental related health issues are major concerns for Mongolian youth. All medical and hospital services are free and health care is under the control of state.\n\nThe World Health Organization established and supports nine adolescent-friendly clinics around Mongolia. The clinic staff is trained on the adolescent orientation package which promotes preventive messages on psychosocial, nutritional, diseases prevention and sexual aspects of health. Although the clinics were youth friendly, the clinics lacked space, were not easy to reach, and were not open during convenient times for youth to access. The WHO 2002 reports show that 34% of youth surveyed were afraid that the health services received at these clinics were inadequate, 57.3% of the same youth surveyed reported that health care workers were inattentive to their health concerns and problems as well as giving poor services.\n\nThe 2008 Reproductive Health Survey revealed that 16.7% of 15-19 year olds surveyed responded that they had had sexual intercourse. 5.0% had their first sexual intercourse between 14 and 16 and 11.7% between the ages 17–19. This is in contrast to the Reproductive Health Survey of 2003, no adolescents reported having sexual intercourse for the first time between the ages of 11 and 13. The average age of first sexual intercourse for males was 16.8 and 18.9 for females. These results were similar for youth in both rural and urban areas.\n\nThe World Health Organization surveys found that youth's knowledge about contraceptives was high while use was low. Of the 1044 youth surveyed between the ages of 15 and 19 reported that 92.7% had knowledge of any modern method, 3.7% were currently using male condoms, IUDs and pills, and 33.5% knew that contraceptives were distributed without charge. The usage of contraceptives among females who reported having sexual intercourse during the month before the survey reported that 31.8% used condoms, 56.8% of those who were never married used condoms, and 39.7% of urban females used condoms compared to 16.7% of rural females.\n\nLegislation regarding youth sexual and reproductive health is prominent as seen by the Criminal Code of 2002 and the Health Act of 1998. Criminal Code of 2002 states that sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 is punishable and abortion in nonmedical conditions or abortion by a nonprofessional is punishable. According to the Health Act of 1998 \"abortion performed only in medical conditions that meet requirements and by licensed medical specialists as specified in the Law\" are permitable.\n\nThe 2010 Global School based Student Health Survey report found that 82.9% of males and 70.5% of females students age 13-15 had smoked cigarettes before the age of 14. 64.2% of those sampled in the same survey had been exposed to second-hand smoke at home. Of current youth smokers, 86.5% wanted to stop smoking while 65.3% of these same youth had received help to do so. The same survey found that 80% of youth agreed that smoking should be banned from public places. Under the new Tobacco Law of 2005, adolescents are forbidden from buying and selling tobacco. Legislation governing alcohol was amended in 2000, banning the sale of alcohol to minors under the age of 21. The 2005 Global School based Student Health survey and the 2000 Adolescents' Needs Assessment Survey reported 15-19 year olds had the highest mean alcohol consumption wherein urban adolescents drank twice as much alcohol as rural adolescents. The 2010 Global School based Student Health Survey revealed that 79.4% of youth had consumed alcohol once a month or less. Of the respondents aged 15–19, 70.8% of males and 86.7% of females had not drunk in the last year, which had dropped significantly since the 2005 report.\n\nThe World Health Organization has classified Mongolia as a low-prevalence STI country, yet the risk environment is increasing. Roughly half of the population is under the age of 23, which makes sexually active youth the most vulnerable population. The United Nations Volunteer program, STI & HIV/AIDS Prevention among Vulnerable Groups in Mongolia 2007-2009, reports that prevention and awareness methods were not tailored to target sexually active youth. The main goal of this project was to reduce risky sexual behavior and develop programs that address issues of prevention for youth. The 2010 United Nations General Assembly Special Session reports found that over half of the adolescents reported that they felt that they did not have any risk of contracting HIV and one fourth considered themselves to be at low risk.\n\nThe Systematic Review of the Impact of the Environment on Health in Mongolia revealed that poor environmental management and behaviors have increased Mongolian children's exposure to environmental risk factors and adverse health outcomes. The results from the study indicate that respiratory diseases and neurodevelopment disorders among youth are common due to significant exposure to outdoor and indoor air pollution, metals, tobacco smoke and other chemical toxins.\n\nMongolia has been ruled by various nomadic empires, the Qing dynasty and the Soviet Union. The blending of many cultures has influenced youth identities with their ethnicities and traditional nomadic lifestyles. The transition to a market economy has brought about rapid urbanization and a change in modern-day youth identities.\n\nMongolia's demographics reveal that Mongol groups make up approximately 95% of the population. There are over 20 different subgroupings of Mongol ethnicities and tribal affilications. The largest ethnic group is composed of Khalkha, Buryats and Oirats Mongols. After the dissolution of Soviet control, nearly half of Mongolian Kazakhs youth and their families left Mongolia to find new sources of economic livelihood. Many of these youth were traditional livestock herders and were expected to conform to gender roles; the move to Kazakhstan proved to be dismal and by 2000 over one third that migrated came back to Mongolia.\n\nSteven Harrell's book, \"Cultural Encounters on China's Ethnic Frontiers\", reveals identification with Mongol heritage differs for rural and urban youth. Pastoral rural Mongol youth identify their nomadic way of life was a basic foundation of Mongolian identity. Boundaries between non-monogols and the Han were created by rural youth through identification with the Mongolian language. Urban youth viewed and required ethnic education as a way to create a cultural space and to understand their common mythical history and family ties to the Mongolian population as a whole.\n"}
{"id": "1474628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1474628", "title": "Zebra murders", "text": "Zebra murders\n\nThe \"Zebra\" murders were a string of racially motivated murders that took place in San Francisco, California, from October 1973 to April 1974. A group of male Black Muslims who called themselves the \"Death Angels\" committed at least 15 murders and 8 attempted murders, entirely against white victims. However, some authorities believe they may have killed as many as 73, or more, victims.\n\nCriminology professor Anthony Walsh wrote that the \"San Francisco–based Death Angels may have killed more people in the early to mid-1970s than all the other serial killers operating during that period combined.\" Police named the case \"Zebra\" after the special police radio band they assigned for the investigation.\n\nIn 1974, four men — Manuel Moore, Larry Green, Jessie Lee Cooks, and J.C.X. Simon — were arrested in connection with the case. They were convicted of first-degree murder and conspiracy charges and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nOn October 19, 1973, Richard Hague, 30, and his wife, Quita, 28, were strolling near their Telegraph Hill home when they were kidnapped by a group of black men and forced into a van. Quita was fondled by two men, and then nearly decapitated by a third with a machete. One of the men who had fondled Quita then similarly hacked Richard, and left him for dead, but he survived.\n\nTen days later, on October 29, Frances Rose, 28, was repeatedly shot by a man who blocked her car's path and demanded a ride, as she was driving up to the entrance gate of the University of California Extension.\n\nOn November 9, a 26-year-old gas company clerk, Robert Stoeckmann, was assaulted by another man, but was able to take the gun away and fire back. The attacker, Leroy Doctor, was later arrested and convicted of assault with a deadly weapon.\n\nSaleem \"Sammy\" Erakat, a 53-year-old Jordanian Arab Muslim, was bound and shot dead in the restroom of his grocery store on November 25.\n\nOn December 11, Paul Dancik, a 26-year-old artist, was shot three times in the chest by a man as he was preparing to make a telephone call at a payphone.\n\nTwo days later, on the evening of December 13, future San Francisco mayor Art Agnos, then a member of the California Commission on Aging, was attending a meeting in Potrero Hill. Agnos, 35, was in the largely black neighborhood to discuss building a government-funded health clinic in the area. After the meeting ended, Agnos was talking to two women curbside when a man shot him twice in the back. Agnos was seriously injured, but survived.\n\nDuring the same evening, Marietta DiGirolamo, 31, was walking along Divisadero Street when she was shoved into a doorway by a man and shot twice in the chest. The shots spun her around and struck her once in the back, killing her.\n\nOn December 20, \"Angela Roselli\" (not her real name), a 20-year-old college student, was shot three times near her apartment by one of two men. She survived, although one bullet nicked her spine.\n\nAn 81-year-old janitor, Ilario Bertuccio, was shot that same evening while walking on his way home from work in the Bay View district. He died almost instantly after four shots to the shoulder and chest.\n\nOn December 22, two more victims died within six minutes of each other. Neal Moynihan, 19, was killed while walking near the Civic Center while shopping. A man had walked in front of him, and shot him in the face, neck, and heart. The killer (or perhaps a different killer, per authors Cohen and Sanders) then chased down 50-year-old Mildred Hosler as she was heading to her bus stop, and also shot her four times.\n\nOn December 24, an unidentified John Doe victim was killed.\n\nThe murders caused widespread panic in San Francisco. People attempted to find safety in numbers whenever they went out or, as much as possible, avoided going out at night. In reaction, an increased police presence was ordered throughout the city. The police were baffled by the apparent lack of motive in the killings. Brutality and an apparent lack of remorse on the part of the gunmen marked the attacks.\n\nBased on what was initially known about the killings, there was a common pattern. In a hit-and-run shooting, the gunman would walk up to his victim, shoot the victim repeatedly at close range, and flee on foot. Another link to the shootings was the killers' preference for a .32-caliber pistol, based on the slugs recovered from the victims and the shell casings found at the crime scenes.\n\nAs a result, a special task force was formed to try to solve and stop the murders, led by Detectives Gus Coreris and John Fotinos. San Francisco Police Chief Donald Scott assigned the \"Z\" police radio frequency for their exclusive use. Since the letter \"Z\" is known in common phonetic use as \"Zebra\", the group became known as the Zebra task force, and the murders became known as the Zebra murders.\n\nThe killings resumed on January 29, 1974, with five more shootings. Tana Smith, 32, was shot while walking to a fabric store. Vincent Wollin, 69, was shot while walking home. John Bambic, 84, was shot while collecting discarded bottles and cans. Jane Holly, a 45-year-old housewife, was gunned down while doing her laundry in a laundromat, and Roxanne McMillian, 23, was shot while carrying items from her car to her new apartment. Of these, only McMillian survived, although she would need to use a wheelchair for the rest of her life. A sixth victim who was shot that night, Thomas Bates, a hitchhiker who survived being shot three times near Emeryville, had earlier been mentioned by author Howard, but not counted by him in that night's totals.\n\nOn April 1, 1974, two Salvation Army cadets were walking toward the Mayfair Market just two blocks away from the Salvation Army School for Officers' Training Center when a black man who was following them overtook them, wheeled around, fired four shots at them, and fled. Thomas Rainwater, 19, died; Linda Story, 21, survived. Two policemen were on the scene within 15 seconds, and although a manhunt was initiated in an effort to find the killer, it proved to be futile. They suspected that the Zebra killers had struck again, as the shell casings found on the sidewalk were found to be from a .32-caliber gun.\n\nOn Easter Sunday, 13 days after the Rainwater-Story shootings, two more people, Ward Anderson, a merchant seaman, and Terry White, a 15-year-old student, were both shot and wounded as they stood at a bus stop at the corner of Fillmore and Hayes Streets; their attacker was a black man who approached the corner on foot and then fled after firing.\n\nOn the evening of April 16, 23-year-old Nelson T. Shields IV, heir to a wealthy Du Pont executive, accompanied a friend to a house on Vernon Street in the Ingleside district to pick up a rug. Shields had opened the back of the station wagon and was making room in the cargo area for the rug when he was shot repeatedly. A witness later testified that she saw a black man rushing up Vernon Street at the time of the shooting. The police suspected it was another Zebra murder, due to the shell casings found at the scene matching a .32-caliber.\n\nThe new wave of murders brought the city to a state of shock as people took the same precautions as they had when the first wave took place. The city took a beating economically as tourists stayed away. Streets were deserted at night, even in North Beach, a neighborhood known to have a seven-nights-a-week nightlife.\n\nPolice decided to take drastic measures. Inspector Gus Coreris dictated generic suspect descriptions with the best-known characteristics of the killers to SFPD sketch artist Hobart \"Hoby\" Nelson, who drew two sketches based on the descriptions. The sketches were then distributed to the media and to SFPD officers, none of whom knew the sketches were generic.\n\nSan Francisco Mayor Joseph Alioto and Police Chief Donald Scott announced that police officers would begin stopping and questioning \"large numbers of black citizens\" who resembled the description of the killer: a black man with a short Afro and a narrow chin. Once stopped, checked, and cleared, each citizen received a specially printed \"Zebra Check\" card from the officer(s) that they could show to police if stopped again. More than 500 black men were stopped by the first weekend the program was in operation.\n\nThis provoked vocal and widespread criticism from the black community. Dr. Washington Garner, the first black member of the Police Commission, called for blacks to be understanding of the exceptional circumstances. The policy faced internal criticism, with the Officers For Justice group led by Nation of Islam associate Jesse Byrd viewing it as \"racist and unproductive\". Acting on a lawsuit filed by the NAACP and the ACLU, U.S. District Judge Alfonso J. Zirpoli ruled the widespread profiling of blacks was unconstitutional, and the operation was suspended.\n\nWith the offer of a $30,000 reward came a break in the Zebra case. Anthony Harris, an employee at the Black Self-Help Moving and Storage, called police a week after the sketches had been posted and subsequently agreed to meet with Zebra case detectives at a bank parking lot in Oakland. Harris claimed to be one of the persons featured in the police sketches, and provided specific details regarding several of the attacks that the police never had released to the public. Harris denied he had committed any killings, but admitted he had been present at many of them.\n\nHarris revealed the existence of the group to the police, and told them of a homicide that did not make the papers; it was that of a homeless man (\"John Doe #169\") whom they had kidnapped from Ghirardelli Square. They had brought the man to Black Self-Help Moving's warehouse, gagged and tied him up, and while he was still conscious, took turns hacking away his limbs. Harris told the detectives that they had dumped the body into the bay. He told his story in such detail that the police were convinced of its veracity, especially since the police had, on the previous December 24, recovered the bound and badly butchered torso of a male, missing its hands, feet and head, that had washed up in the city's Ocean Beach district at the foot of Pacheco Street. Harris provided the police with names, dates, addresses and details — enough information to issue arrest warrants against the suspects. Harris subsequently sought, and received, immunity for his help in breaking the Zebra case, as well as new identities for himself, his girlfriend, and her child.\n\nOn May 1, 1974, simultaneous raids during the pre-dawn hours were made, resulting in the arrests of Larry Craig Green and J.C.X. Simon in an apartment building at 844 Grove Street. More suspects were arrested at Black Self-Help Moving & Storage's facility. None offered resistance when arrested. Of the seven arrested that day, four were released for lack of evidence.\n\nMayor Alioto announced the news of the raids and announced that the killings were perpetrated by the Death Angels. Black Muslim leader John Muhammad, the minister of Mosque #26 in San Francisco, denied the allegations of a Black Muslim conspiracy to kill whites. The Nation of Islam paid for attorneys for all of the perpetrators convicted, except for Jessie Lee Cooks, who had pleaded guilty.\n\nThe trial started on March 3, 1975. Efforts by the defense to discredit Harris were unsuccessful, and he revealed many grisly details over 12 days of testimony. In addition, the Zebra team presented evidence of a .32 caliber Beretta automatic pistol that was recovered from the backyard of a home near the scene of the last murder. They were able to demonstrate the chain of ownership of the gun to one of the workers at Black Self-Help, and that the gun had been used in many of the murders.\n\nBased upon the testimony of 108 witnesses (including Harris), 8,000 pages totaling 3.5 million words worth of transcripts, and culminating in what was then the longest criminal trial in California history, Larry Green, J.C.X. Simon, Manuel Moore, and Jessie Lee Cooks were convicted of first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit first-degree murder after an 18-hour deliberation by the jury in 1976. Each was sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nOn March 12, 2015, J.C.X. Simon (aged 69), was found unresponsive in his cell at San Quentin Prison, where he had been serving a life sentence with the possibility of parole since 1976. He was declared dead of unknown causes, pending an autopsy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54984649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54984649", "title": "Zimbabwe at the Deaflympics", "text": "Zimbabwe at the Deaflympics\n\nZimbabwe made its first appearance at a Deaflympic event in 1993, which is also the only time that Zimbabwe was eligible to participate at Deaflympics. \n\nZimbabwe sent a delegation consisting of just 2 Deaf sportspeople in the 1993 Summer Deaflympics.\n\n"}
