{"id": "27623210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27623210", "title": "Alan Sheridan", "text": "Alan Sheridan\n\nAlan Sheridan (1934 - 2015) was an English author and translator.\n\nBorn Alan Mark Sheridan-Smith, Sheridan read English at St Catharine's College, Cambridge before spending 5 years in Paris as English assistant at Lycée Henri IV and Lycée Condorcet. Returning to London, he briefly worked in publishing before becoming a freelance translator. He translated works of fiction, history, philosophy, literary criticism, biography and psychoanalysis by Jean-Paul Sartre, Jacques Lacan, Michel Foucault, Alain Robbe-Grillet, Robert Pinget and many others. He was the first to publish a book in English on Foucault's work and also wrote a biography of André Gide.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9056282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9056282", "title": "Asceticism in Judaism", "text": "Asceticism in Judaism\n\nAsceticism is a term derived from the Greek verb ἀσκέω, meaning \"to practise strenuously,\" \"to exercise.\" Athletes were therefore said to go through ascetic training, and to be ascetics.\n\nIn this usage the twofold application—to the mode of living and the results attained—which marks the later theological implication of the term is clearly discernible. From the arena of physical contests the word easily passed over to that of spiritual struggles, and pre-Christian writers speak of the \"askesis\" of the soul or of virtue—the discipline of the soul, or the exercise in virtue. But the physical idea, no less than the moral, underlies the meaning of the term in medieval Christian parlance. The monastery, as the place where the required life of abstemiousness is lived under rigorous regulation and discipline, becomes the \"asketerion,\" a word which to the classical Greek conveyed only the notion of a place reserved for physical exercise; while the monks were the \"ascetikoi,\" the ascetics, under discipline attaining unto the perfect practise.\n\nAsceticism is indigenous to the religions which posit as fundamental the wickedness of this life and the corruption under sin of the flesh. Buddhism, therefore, as well as Christianity, leads to ascetic practices. Monasteries are institutions of Buddhism no less than of Catholic Christianity. The assumption, found in the views of the Montanists and others, that concessions made to the natural appetites may be pardoned in those that are of a lower degree of holiness, while the perfectly holy will refuse to yield in the least to carnal needs and desires, is easily detected also in some of the teachings of Gautama Buddha. The ideal of holiness of both the Buddhist and the Christian saint culminates in poverty and chastity; i.e., celibacy. Fasting and other disciplinary methods are resorted to curb the flesh.\n\nUnder a strict construction of the meaning of Asceticism, it is an error to assume that its history may be extended to embrace also certain rites in vogue among devotees to fetishism and nature worship. Mutilations, the sacrifice of the hair, dietary observances and prohibitions, which abound in all forms of religion at a certain stage of development, do not spring from the notion of the sinfulness of the natural instincts and of life. Nor is the sacrificial scheme in any way connected with Asceticism. The idea of privation is foreign to it. If the offering was a gift to the Deity and as such entailed upon the offerer the parting with something of value, the expectation which animated him was invariably that of receiving rich return. But whatever theory must be accepted in explanation of the various rites of mutilation, and of the sacrificial ritual, certain it is that Judaism from the beginning set its face most sternly against the one, and materially restricted the other. Mutilations for whatever purpose and of whatever character were absolutely prohibited. Funeral horrors and superstitions were not tolerated. The Levitical code restricted sacrifices to one place. The priests only were entrusted with the office at the altar. And, if the Prophets are the truest expounders of the ideals and ideas of the religion of Israel, even the sacrificial and sacerdotal system, with its implications of extraordinary and precautionary cleanliness and physical abstemiousness, was of little vital moment.\n\nFasting, which plays so essential a part in the practices of ascetics, classically found official recognition only in the development of the Day of Atonement. The Prophets, again, had little patience with fasting. There are some obscure allusions to fast days of popular observance, but the Prophets of exilic and postexilic days insist on the futility of this custom. Isaiah (lviii.), while appealing for a broader charity and deeper sense of justice, maintains that these, and not fasting, are the expression of a will sanctified unto God. It is characteristic of the attitude of later Judaism that this very chapter has been assigned for the Hafṭarah for the Day of Atonement, the one penitential fast-day of the synagogue.\n\nNevertheless, fasting among the Jews was resorted to in times of great distress. The Book of Esther, of late date, illustrates this for the period included in the Biblical canon. Rabbinical sources prove the growing tendency to abstain from drink and food whenever memories of disaster marked the days of the synagogal calendar, or instant danger threatened the community. In the scheme of the synagogue the one fast-day of the Bible received no less than twenty-two as companions (compare Fasting in Judaism).\n\nStill, it may be doubted whether this multiplication of fast-days can be taken as a sign of an increased tendency to Asceticism. Probably the theory of Robertson Smith (\"The Religion of the Semites,\" p. 413) still holds good to a large extent in explanation of many of the fast-observances of later Judaism, as undoubtedly it does for the voluntary and occasional fast-days mentioned in the historical books of the Bible; namely, that Oriental fasting is merely a preparation for the eating of the sacrificial meal. The rabbinical injunction, not to eat too late a meal on the eve of the Sabbath-day, so as to enjoy all the more that of the Sabbath, tends to corroborate the theory. Perhaps this also underlies the rabbinical report that some examples of rabbinical piety fasted every Friday (in preparation for the Sabbath).\n\nAmong the Rabbis some are mentioned as great and consistent fasters. Rabbi Zeira especially is remembered for his fondness of this form of piety. Yet to make of him an ascetic would be inaccurate. He fasted that he might forget his Babylonian method of teaching before emigrating to Palestine (B. M. 85a). The story continues that he abstained from drink and food for the period of one hundred days, in order that hell-fire might later have no power over him. Simon ben YoḦai is depicted as an ascetic in the traditions preserved in rabbinical literature. But exposed to persecutions under the Hadrian régime, and often in danger of his life, his whole mind was of an exceptionally somber turn for a Jewish teacher. Moreover, his ascetic practices were not inspired by a consciousness of the futility of this life and its sinfulness, but by the anxiety to fulfill to the letter the Law, to \"ponder on the Torah day and night\". He begrudged the hours necessary for the care of the body as so many precious moments stolen from the study of the holy Law. He envied the generation of the desert who had been fed on heavenly manna, and were thus absolved from the care for their daily bread; an echo of this sentiment may be detected in the petition of Jesus for daily bread (on Simon b. YoḦai, see W. Bacher, \"Ag. Tan.\" ii. 70-149).\n\nStill, with all these seeming leanings to ascetic conduct, these rabbis did not encourage \"individual\" fasting. The \"community\" in distress did indeed proclaim a public fast, and it was the duty of the loyal member to participate. For he who would not share in the distress would have no part in the consolation of the people (Ta'an. 11a). The habitual faster was called a sinner (ib.). This judgment was enforced by an appeal to the Biblical text in connection with the Nazir's (Nazarite's) expiatory sacrifice (Num. vi. 11). Rabbi Zeira would not permit his disciples to indulge in extraordinary practices of self-restraint, if they presumed thereby to reflect on the piety of others saner than they. The title applied to such an adept at saintly practices is characteristically deprecatory for his attitude of mind: his conduct is declared to smack of conceit, if not of hypocrisy (Yer. Ber. ii. 5d).\n\nThe attempt has been made to explain the Biblical Nazarites as forerunners of monastic orders addicted to the practice of ascetic discipline. Pentateuchal legislation concerning them shows them to have been merely tolerated. Modern criticism explains their peculiarities as arising from motives other than those that determine the conduct of ascetics. The Biblical Nazirs, forerunners of the Nebi'im (Prophets), were Protestants against the adoption of the customs and the religious rites of the Canaanites. In their dress and mode of life they emphasized their loyalty to YHVH, enthroned on the desert mountain. Wine and the crown of hair were sacred to the gods of the land. Their very appearance emphasized their rejection of the new deities. And in later days the number of those that took the Nazarite vow was exceedingly small. One is inclined to the opinion that no case occurred in which the Pentateuchal provisions became effective.\n\nNor may the Essenes be classed among the order of ascetics. While some of their institutions, notably celibacy, appear to lend support to the theory that would class them as such, their fundamental doctrines show no connection with the pessimism that is the essential factor in Asceticism. They were political indifferentists; they were but little, if at all, under the sway of national aspirations. They stood for a universal fellowship of the pure and just. They set but little store by the goods of this earth, and were members of a communistic fraternity. But it is inadmissible to construe from these elements of their hopes and habits the inference that in them is to be found a genuine Jewish order of monks and ascetics.\n\nA stronger case against the theory that Judaism is a very uncongenial soil for the growth of Asceticism might be made out by an appeal to the later Jewish mystics, the Ḥasidim and Cabalists of various forms, all ecstatic fantastics, and—this is a point that must not be overlooked—more or less strongly under the influence of distinctly non-Jewish conceits. See below, Examples of Jewish Asceticism.\n\nLooking upon this life as essentially good, according to Gen. i. 31; upon the human body as a servant of the spirit, and therefore not corrupt; upon the joys of earth as God-given and therefore to be cherished with gratitude toward the divine giver; having a prayer for every indulgence in food and drink; a benediction for every new experience of whatever nature, gladsome or sad—the Jew partook with genuine zest of the good cheer of life, without, however, lapsing into frivolity, gluttony, or intemperance. His religion, that taught him to remember his dignity as one made in the image of God, and to hold his body in esteem as the temple of God's spirit within, a dwelling of the Most Holy, \"a host,\" as Hillel put it, \"for the guest, the soul,\" kept the Jew equidistant from the pole of self-torturing pessimism, from the mortification of the flesh under the obsession of its sinfulness and foulness, and from the other pole of levity and sensuousness.\n\nNever intemperate in drink or food, he sought and found true joy in the consecration of his life and all of its powers and opportunities to the service of his God, a God who had caused the fruit of the vine to grow and the earth to give forth the bread, a God who created the light and sent the darkness, a God who, as a Talmudical legend—one of the many with Elijah for their subject—has it, reserves paradise \"for them that cause their fellows to laugh\" (Ta'an. 22a). The most beautiful saying of the rabbis about Asceticism is: \"Man will have to give account in the future for every lawful enjoyment offered to him which he has ungratefully refused\" (Rab in Yer. Ḳid., at the close); compare TanḦ., end, \"The wicked in his life is considered as one dead,\" etc.\n\nWhile the dominant note of Judaism is optimism, faith in a God who delights in the happiness of His creatures and expects their grateful appreciation of His bounties—see Abstinence in Judaism—there have, nevertheless, been prevalent in Jewish life certain ascetic tendencies of which the historian must take account.\n\nThe two great rabbinical schools of the first pre-Christian century, the Shammaites and the Hillelites, debated the question whether life was worth living or not—\"ṭob le-adam shenibra mishelo nibra\" (Er. 13b), and there was an unmistakable element of austerity in the teaching of many a Shammaite that favored asceticism (compare II Esdras iv. 12). While one teacher would say, \"The Shekinah rests on man only amid cheerfulness that comes from duty well performed\" (Pes. ii. 7a), another held the view that \"there should be no unrestrained laughter in this world\" (Ber. 31a).\n\nBut it was particularly with the view of fitting the soul for communion with God, or for the purpose of keeping the body sufficiently pure to allow it to come into contact with sacred objects, that many strove to avoid things that either cause intoxication or Levitical impurity, the drinking of wine (Lev. x. 9; Num. vi. 3; Amos ii. 12; Judges xiii. 14), or sexual intercourse, which was forbidden to the people of Israel, in preparation for the Sinai Revelation (Ex. xix. 15), and to Moses during the life of communion with God (Deut. ix. 9, 18; I Sam. xxi. 5; Shab. 87a).\n\nAccording to this principle the life of the ancient Ḥasidim or Perushim (Pharisees) and Ẓenu'im (Essenes) was regulated. At the same time these devotees of holiness, making \"askesis\" (the practise of fortitude) their special object of life, were naturally led to view sensual life as contaminating. F. C. Conybeare says: \"Philo's ideal was to die daily, to mortify the flesh with fasting; he only insisted that the seclusion from social life should take place at the age of fifty, the time when the Levites retired from the active duties of the Temple service\".\n\nThis was exactly the view of the Essenes and Therapeutæ also, in whatever connection they stood to Jonadab ben Rechab and the Kenites (see Mek., Yitro, 2, regarding \"the water-drinkers\" (shote mayim), as some of these are called). Banus, the eremite saint with whom Josephus passed three years of his life (Josephus, \"Vita,\" § 2), was certainly an ascetic. Likewise were John the Baptist (Matt. iii. 4 and parallels) and the early Christians, Paul included, insofar as they shunned marriage as a concession to the flesh (Matt. xix. 10-12; I Cor. vii. 28-38), imbued with ascetic views. It was exactly in opposition to this tendency, so marked in early Christianity, that the Talmudists denounced fasting and penitence (Ta'anit 11a, b) and accentuated the duty of cheerfulness in the Elijah legend (Ta'anit 22a). Upon the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem in the year 70, a veritable wave of asceticism swept over the people, and in tribute to the national misfortune various ascetic rules were instituted (see B. B. 60b; Tosefta Soṭah, end; II Esdras ix. 24; compare W. Bacher, \"Agada der Tannaiten,\" i. 164).\n\nStill, mysticism, which goes hand in hand with asceticism, always had its esoteric circles. Judah ha-Nasi, called \"the saint,\" was an ascetic (Ket. 104a). Mar, the son of Rabina, fasted throughout the whole year with the exception of the holy days and the eve of the Atonement Day (Pes. 68b). For the sake of communing with the upper world, the lower one was despised by the elect few who preserved the tradition of the gnosis and the apocalyptic mysteries.\n\nSo did the followers of Obadiah Abu-Isa, the Isawites, and of Judah Yudghan, the Yudghanites, at the close of the 7th century and at the beginning of the 8th, the forerunners of the Karaites, and many prominent Karaites themselves lead ascetic lives; abstaining from meat and wine, and spending much of their time in meditation and devotion, partly in order to obtain a deeper knowledge of the Scriptures, partly as mourners over Jerusalem (see Shahrastani, \"Book of Religions and Philosophical Sects,\" Haarbrücker's translation, i. 254-257; H. Grätz, \"Gesch. der Juden,\" iii. 417 et seq., 446 et seq.; Jost, \"Gesch. des Judenthums,\" ii. 350 et seq.).\n\nTo some extent, therefore, all the mystics of the Middle Ages were Ascetics, assuming or accepting for themselves the title of \"Nazarites,\" or being called by their contemporaries \"saints.\" This is especially true of Abraham ben David of Posquières and his circle in the 13th century, whose relation to the beginnings of the Kabala can hardly be denied. Further, the currents of thought which, emanating from India, created Sufism in Persian and Mohammedan circles in the 12th and 13th centuries, exerted considerable influence upon Jewish thinkers, as may be learned from BaḦya, whose ethical system, \"Ḥobot ha-Lebabot,\" oscillates between asceticism and Jewish optimism, with a decided leaning to the former (see below).\n\nEven such thinkers as opposed the ascetic view could not extricate themselves entirely from the meshes of Neoplatonic mysticism, which beheld in the flesh or in matter the source of evil. Thus Abraham ben Ḥiyya strongly refutes the Neoplatonic conception of evil as being identical with matter, and maintains against BaḦya that indulgence in fasting and other modes of penitence is not meritorious, since only he who is ruled by his lower desires may resort to asceticism as the means of curbing his passion and disciplining his soul, whereas the really good should confine himself to such modes of abstinence as are prescribed by the Law.\n\nNevertheless, Abraham b. Ḥiyya claims a higher rank for the saint who, secluded from the world, leads a life altogether consecrated to the service of God. He goes even so far as to advocate the state of celibacy in such cases, referring to the example of Moses—who had to abandon intercourse with his wife when receiving the laws on Sinai—to the majority of the prophets (who were, as he thinks, unmarried), and to Ben Azzai (according to Yeb. 63b). Like BaḦya, he considers that the ascetic, while leading a purer and holier life, requires less legal restraint (see his \"Hegyon ha-Nefesh,\" ed. Reifman, 16a, 32a, 37a; Rosin, \"Ethik des Maimonides,\" pp. 15, 16; Moritz Güdemann, in \"Monatsschrift,\" 1900, pp. 196–216).\n\nOf Asher, the son of Meshullam ben Jacob in Lunel, Benjamin of Tudela (\"Travels,\" ed. Asher, 3b) relates as eye-witness that he was an ascetic (\"parush\") who did not attend to any worldly business, but studied day and night, kept fasts, and never ate meat. His brother Jacob bore the title of Nazarite, having also been an ascetic abstaining from wine (see Zunz's note in Asher's \"Benjamin of Tudela,\" ii. 11, 12; H. Grätz, \"Gesch. der Juden,\" vi. 240, 241).\n\nAlso the whole family of Judah the Ḧasid of Regensburg, of the 12th century, his father, Samuel, and his grandfather, Kalonymus of Speyer, grandson of Eliezer the Great of Worms, seem to have been a family of Ascetics (see H. J. Michael, \"Or ha-Ḥayyim,\" Nos. 433, 990, 1174, 1200).\n\nThe subsequent development and growth of the Kabala produced other forms of asceticism. In fact, the Ḥasid and the Ẓanua' of the medieval apocalyptic literature being a survival of Essenism, ablutions and fasting were resorted to by the adepts of the Cabala as means of attaining communion with the upper world. Some of these Ḥasidim would spend the whole week—without or with interruption, according to their physical endurance—in fasting, rendering only the Sabbath a day of comfort and joy. The object of their penitences and fastings was to bring about the time of divine favor, the Messianic era. Every Messianic movement had therefore Ascetics as leaders, such as were the Shabbethaians (see H. Grätz, \"Gesch. der Juden,\" iii. 307) and others (see Abraham ben Samuel Cohen of Lask). Others would refrain from eating animal food—'eber min ha-Ḥay—and, like the Buddhists or the Pythagoreans of old, live on vegetarian diet. The same is related by Epiphanius of the Dosithean sect.\n\nAgainst all these ascetic views and tendencies Maimonides raised his powerful voice, and his sober view maintained the upper hand. He admits the wholesome influence on those needing much discipline of the soul of fasting and vigils, of sexual and social abstemiousness, the self-torture of the hermit, and of the penitent who dwells in deserts and uses only coarse haircloth for the covering of his flesh; but he declares the constant use of what can at best be only a remedial measure in abnormal and unsound conditions of life to be a great folly and injurious extravagance.\n\nMaimonides, while adopting the Aristotelian maxim of the golden middle way in all things, finds in the various restrictions of the dietary and marriage laws of the Torah a legislative system of training the people to a sobriety which makes superfluous such asceticism as the monks and the saints of other nations indulge in; nay, sinful indeed, according to the rabbinical interpretation of Num. vi. 11, which says that the priest shall \"make an atonement for him [the Nazir] for that he has sinned against the person [in making his vow of abstinence]\" (see Ned. 10a; Maimonides, \"Yad,\" De'ot, iii. 1, vi. 1).\n\nJewish hermits, living in a state of celibacy and devoting themselves to meditation, are still (circa 1906) found among the Falashas. They claim that Aaron the high priest was the first Nazarite who from the time of his consecration separated from his wife to live only in the shadow of the tabernacle. Accordingly, they join the monastic order after they have been married and have become fathers of children (Halévy, \"Travels in Abyssinia,\" p. 230). According to Flad (\"Abyssinische Juden,\" pp. 32 et seq.), the order founded by Abba Sabra (Halévy, \"Abba Sura\") consists altogether of eunuchs. This would indicate non-Jewish influence, of which the Falashas show many traces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44990514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44990514", "title": "Aut Aut", "text": "Aut Aut\n\nAut Aut is an Italian-language critical philosophy and literary magazine published in Milan, Italy. Its name is of Latin origin and refers to existential choice and also, to Søren Kierkegaard’s \"either/or\" conceptualization.\n\nSubtitled \"Rivista di filosofia e di cultura\", \"Aut Aut\" was founded in 1951 by Enzo Paci. Enzo Paci was also the editor-in-chief of the magazine until his death in 1976. The magazine is based in Milan.\n\n\"Aut Aut\" has a phenomenological and existentialist orientation. The magazine covers articles on philosophy, literature, sociology, linguistics and also, on architecture and urbanism.\n\nGillo Dorfles is among the significant former contributors. Roberto Sanesi started his career as a critic in the magazine in the 1950s. Pierre Aldo Rovatti was on the editorial board of the magazine between 1974 and 1976. During that period it became a significant forum for the discussions of Marxism and poststructuralism. Afterwards it continued to be published as a critical magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "49076174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49076174", "title": "Božidar Knežević", "text": "Božidar Knežević\n\nBožidar Knežević (3 March 1862, Ub - 18 February 1905, Belgrade) was a Serbian philosopher, writer and literary critic. Although he was educated for the priesthood, he turned from Orthodox religion to a faith in science and in social regeneration under the guidance of the intellectual elite. For him the unpardonable sin was dogmatism, since he believed that neither religious, nor historical, nor scientific knowledge is wholly accurate. \n\nBožidar Knežević was born in Ub, in the Valjevo municipality, on the third of March 1862. He completed his gymnasium and got his B.A. degree in History and Philosophy from Belgrade's \"Grandes écoles\" (University of Belgrade) in 1883. At the same time he concluded that a career in the Church was impossible for one with his individualistic religious views. A trial at teaching in 1884 at a gymnasium in Uzice convinced him that he could endure teaching. A year later he took a few months leave to volunteer for the Serbo-Bulgarian War (1885). His vision was also social and political. He believed in man's dignity and natural right to liberty. (\"As long as there are captive peoples, the free will be in danger\"). For the next 20 years he taught throughout Serbia, moved from one town to the next, Though this job entailed a great amount of drugery, he managed to write and publish several volumes. In 1889 he was transferred from his teaching post in Uzice to Nis. From 1893 to 1894 he was a high school teacher in Čačak, Kragujevac and again in Čačak, where he was also made principal. Here he found a coterie of admirers, and a change in fortune and reputation came with the publication of \"\"Principi istorije\" (Principles of history) in 1898. Henceforth, history and philosophy were his major interests. He subsequently published \"Red u Istoriji\" (Discipline in History, 1898), \"Proporcija u Istroiji\" (Proportions in History, 1901), \"Misli\" (Thoughts), which appeared in serial form in \"Srpski Knjizevni Glasnik\" (Serbian Literary Herald) in 1901, and the second volume of \"Principi istorije\" also in 1901, all this while holding his teaching and administrative job as secondary school principal in Šabac (1899-1902).\n\nIn 1902 Knežević was transferred back to Belgrade. Such constant transfers from one high school to another while translating foreign authors and writing about history and philosophy at the same time is a testament to struggle and to courage, for every bit of it was composed under conditions which most writers would find impossible. There can be no question that much of the writing he did was written under difficult conditions. Furthermore, his illness contributed to his death. He died at Belgrade on 18 February 1905 of tuberculosis. He was only 43.\n\nIn Serbia at the end of the nineteenth century, the most interesting, if not the most distinguished, philosopher and writer was Božidar Knežević, a lonely schoolteacher, philosopher of history, metaphysician, and ethical theorist, who developed a quite original theory of universal evolution in his visionary treatise, \"Principi Istorije\"\" (Principles of History). He was, indeed, an original thinker. Integrity as well as lasting inspirations to future generations of our species on this earth and elsewhere, perhaps even in the as yet uncharted depths of abysmal space were questions on his mind.\n\nHaving spent his entire life in Serbia, Božidar Knežević speculated on the nature of the universe and wondered about the meaning, purpose, and ultimate destiny of humankind within a cosmic scheme of things. Knežević postulated a cosmos that evolved through three major phases: organic, inorganic, and psychic.\nHe wrote, \"A dogma is an embalmed thought: dead but whole, live but motionless, soulless but powerful.\"\nThe whole, which is unconscious and general, precedes the part, which is conscious and specific. When the part separates from the whole, there is conflict with the whole and with other parts. From this conflict there arises a new order and proportionality which is only temporary and gives place to a new phase of disintegration. However, in history as a whole, the growth of civilization leads to increasing social justice and the elimination of irrationality in human life. Although Božidar Knežević assumed the existence of God as a primary and eternal substance, he held that as human altruism develops, man withdraws from God. Morality and more moral organization of social life are born out of pain and suffering. It consists in the liberation from all external forces and presupposes the overcoming of ordinary motives for human behavior.\n\nYet however much one might be tempted to dismiss the philosophy of Božidar Knežević as a quaint Balkan period piece, it is more than that. Its special rhetoric belongs to a dead past, but positivism and heroism both survive in various modelations in the late nineteenth century (1898) and at the turn of the twentieth century (1901) when Knežević was writing his treatise, Principi istorije (Principles of History, Volumes 1 & 2). In his major works Knežević presented an original world-view that ingeniously synthesizes both historicism and positivism with a cosmic scheme of things. The result is a vast, dynamic, and unique vision of mankind's place and destiny within the determining laws of an evolving then devolving universe.\n\n\"All things born must die. Only what never began will never end; what preceded everything else will survive everything else; what happened first will disappear last.\"\n\nIn his metaphysics, Knežević asserts the primacy of a deeper moral dimension of the world. Above truth, according to Knežević, stands justice. The discovery of the intrinsic justice in the world is achieved through truth.\"The entire truth does not rest in any particular theory, idea or principle, as there are only particles of the whole truth...\"writes Knežević. \"Error is a belief that something untrue is true. A lie is a conscious distortion of truth. Error is noble and natural. Error is a lower degree of truth. A lie is an obstacle to truth.\"\n\nHe said, \"\"The entire truth does not rest in any particular theory, idea or principle, as these are only particles of the whole truth...\" \n\nHe envisioned a worldwide socio-cultural system as the outgrowth of human progress grounded in science and historical understanding.\n\nIn 1898 Bozidar Knežević published his seminal work, a visionary treatise entitled \"Principi istorije\"\" (Principles of history) in two volumes. \"Since everything that exists\", he argued, \"exists only in history, history takes over the fields of other sciences and offers the highest human understanding\". In addition, \"history binds all peoples and leads to their reconciliation and overall harmony\". Knežević’s optimism and belief in the progress of the human mind is tempered with his belief that \"the total quantity of time available to the living is limited: human civilization and even human life is thus bound to disappear\". Proportion, he boldly states, is \"the Telos (philosophy) of history.\" As both nature and humans strive after this ideal, \"proportion is used to explain the nature of truth, reason, good, progress, beauty, justice and freedom\". Once elements achieve proportion and balance with each other, \"they live simultaneously\" in a great organic whole in which one can ultimately arrive at \"complete morality, freedom, justice and truth\". Whereas academic philosophers repudiated this system as incoherent, many Serb \"avant-garde\" poets and writers found in it a congenial vision of the universe in which everything, including poetry and beauty, had its own rightful place in a world striving after proportion.\n\nBožidar Knežević's other main works are \"\"Red u Istoriji\" (Discipline in History, 1898); \"Proporcija u Istroiji\" (Proportions in History, 1901); and \"Misli\" (Thoughts, which appeared in serial form in \"Srpski Knjizevni Glasnik\"/ Serbian Literary Herald, 1901). Today's Serbia does not look like the dark and hopeless \"Stradija\" (Land of Tribulation) as it seemed to Radoje Domanović and Božidar Knežević when he was writing his doleful \"Misli\"\" (Thoughts).\n\nKnežević acknowledges his indebtness to Auguste Comte and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel as well as Karl Marx, Charles Darwin, and Herbert Spencer.\n\nAlso, Knežević translated the works of two Englishmen, Thomas Carlyle's \"On Heroes and Hero Worship and the Heroic in History (1841) and \"History of Civilization in England\" (1857) by Henry Thomas Buckle.\n\nCarlyle became a part of the intellectual armor of every self-respecting young man, thanks to Božidar Knežević, a thinker of unusual power. Knežević was almost exclusively under the influence of English thought, though he never left Serbia. He did more than anybody to introduce the world literature and philosophy to his countrymen. With probing intellect and soaring genius, Knežević continuously explored and devoured volumes of world literature in numerous languages (English, German, French, Italian and Russian).\n\n\nTranslations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24281777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24281777", "title": "Brain Fuck Scheduler", "text": "Brain Fuck Scheduler\n\nThe Brain Fuck Scheduler (BFS) is a process scheduler designed for the Linux kernel in August 2009 as an alternative to the Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS) and the O(1) scheduler. BFS was created by veteran kernel programmer Con Kolivas.\n\nThe objective of BFS, compared to other schedulers, is to provide a scheduler with a simpler algorithm, that does not require adjustment of heuristics or tuning parameters to tailor performance to a specific type of computation workload. Kolivas asserted that these tunable parameters were difficult for the average user to understand, especially in terms of interactions of multiple parameters with each other, and claimed that the use of such tuning parameters could often result in improved performance in a specific targeted type of computation, at the cost of worse performance in the general case. BFS has been reported to improve responsiveness on Linux desktop computers with fewer than 16 cores.\n\nShortly following its introduction, the new scheduler made headlines within the Linux community, appearing on \"Slashdot\", with reviews in \"Linux Magazine\" and \"Linux Pro Magazine\". Although there have been varied reviews of improved performance and responsiveness, Con Kolivas did not intend for BFS to be integrated into the mainline kernel.\n\nIn a contemporary study, the author compared the BFS to the CFS using the Linux kernel v3.6.2 and several performance-based endpoints. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS) in the vanilla Linux kernel and the BFS in the corresponding kernel patched with the ck1 patchset. Seven different machines were used to see if differences exist and, to what degree they scale using performance based metrics. Number of logical CPUs ranged from 1 to 16. These end-points were never factors in the primary design goals of the BFS. The results were encouraging.\n\nKernels patched with the ck1 patch set including the BFS outperformed the vanilla kernel using the CFS at nearly all the performance-based benchmarks tested. Further study with a larger test set could be conducted, but based on the small test set of 7 PCs evaluated, these increases in process queuing, efficiency/speed are, on the whole, independent of CPU type (mono, dual, quad, hyperthreaded, etc.), CPU architecture (32-bit and 64-bit) and of CPU multiplicity (mono or dual socket).\n\nMoreover, several \"modern\" CPUs, such as the Intel Core 2 Duo and Core i7, that represent common workstations and laptops, consistently outperformed the CFS in the vanilla kernel at all benchmarks. Efficiency and speed gains were small to moderate.\n\nBFS is the default scheduler for the following desktop Linux distributions:\n\n\nAdditionally, BFS has been added to an experimental branch of Google's Android development repository. It was not included in the Froyo release after blind testing did not show an improved user experience.\n\nBFS has been retired in favour of MuQSS, a rewritten implementation of the same concept.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3804022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3804022", "title": "Centering prayer", "text": "Centering prayer\n\nCentering Prayer is a method of meditation used by Christians placing a strong emphasis on interior silence. \nThe modern Centering Prayer movement in Christianity can be traced to several books published by three Trappist monks of St. Joseph's Abbey in Spencer, Massachusetts in the 1970s: Fr. William Meninger, Fr. M. Basil Pennington and Abbot Thomas Keating. The name was taken from Thomas Merton's description of contemplative prayer (a much older and more traditional practice) as prayer that is \"centered entirely on the presence of God.\". In his book \"Contemplative Prayer\", Merton writes \"“Monastic prayer begins not so much with “considerations” as with a “return to the heart,” finding one’s deepest center, awakening the profound depths of our being”.\n\nThe creators of the Centering Prayer movement claim to trace their roots to the contemplative prayer of the Desert Fathers of early Christian monasticism, to the Lectio Divina tradition of Benedictine monasticism, and to works like \"The Cloud of Unknowing\" and the writings of St. Teresa of Avila and St. John of the Cross. Advocates of Centering Prayer say it does not replace other prayer but encourages silence and deeper connection to God. Also advocates of Centering Prayer say it helps people be more present and open to God. Father Thomas Keating has promoted both Lectio Divina and Centering Prayer.\n\nHowever, some people, including Pope Benedict XVI, consider Centering Prayer controversial. Some authors argue that Centering Prayer contradicts the teachings of the Carmelite saints. Others also argue that Centering Prayer is a distortion of the teachings of the Desert Fathers and \"The Cloud of Unknowing\", and is in contradiction to \"Lectio Divina\". Some consider it to fall afoul of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith's caution against similar prayer forms in their \"Letter to the Bishops of the Catholic Church on Some Aspects of Christian Meditation.\"\n\nSeeds of what would become known as contemplation, for which the Greek term \"theoria\" is also used, were sown early in the Christian era.\n\nThe earliest Christian writings that clearly speak of contemplative prayer come from the 4th-century monk St. John Cassian, who wrote of a practice he learned from the Desert Fathers (specifically from Isaac). Cassian's writings remained influential until the medieval era when monastic practice shifted from a mystical orientation to Scholasticism. During the 16th century, Carmelite saints Teresa of Avila and John of the Cross wrote and taught about advanced Christian prayer, which was given the name infused contemplation.\n\nThe 20th century Trappist monk and writer Thomas Merton was influenced by Buddhist meditation, particularly as found in Zen. He was a lifetime friend of Buddhist meditation master and Vietnamese monk and peace activist Thich Nhat Hanh, praised Chogyam Trungpa who founded Shambhala Buddhism in the United States and was also an acquaintance of the current Dalai Lama. His theology attempted to unify existentialism with the tenets of the Roman Catholic faith. As such he was also an advocate of the non-rational meditation of contemplative prayer, which he saw as a direct confrontation of finite and irrational man with his ground of being.\n\nCistercian monk Father Thomas Keating, a founder of Centering Prayer, was abbot all through the 60s and 70s at St. Joseph’s Abbey in Spencer, Massachusetts. This area is thick with religious retreat centres, including the well-known Theravada Buddhist centre, Insight Meditation Society. Fr. Keating tells of meeting many young people, some who stumbled on St. Joseph’s by accident, many of them born Catholic, who had turned to Eastern practices for contemplative work. He found many of them had no knowledge of the contemplative traditions within Christianity and set out to present those practices in a more accessible way. The result was the practice now called Centering Prayer.\n\nFr. M. Basil Pennington suggests these steps for practicing Centering Prayer:\n\nIn addition, Fr. Keating writes, \nIn centering prayer, the participant seeks the presence of God directly (aided by the Jesus Prayer, perhaps) and explicitly rejects discursive thoughts and imagined scenes. The participant's aim is to be present to the Lord, to \"consent to God's presence and action during the time of prayer.\" Centering Prayer advocates link the practice to traditional forms of Christian meditation, such as on the rosary, or Lectio Divina.\n\nAlthough the practice makes use of a \"sacred word,\" Thomas Keating emphasizes that Centering Prayer is not an exercise in concentrating, or focusing one's attention on something (such as a mantra), but rather is concerned with intention and consent.\n\nIn practice, the \"sacred word\" can integrate with breathing in and out. Thus, rather than being a tool to quiet the mind, consent to the presence and action of God within and \"just be\" with God, it can become too prevalent during the practice of Centering Prayer.\n\nOrthodox Christian authorities argue that there is a gulf between the Jesus Prayer and non-Christian meditation techniques. The standard criticism of Centering Prayer is that it is essentially non-Christian meditation. Unlike the Jesus Prayer, critics argue, Centering Prayer can be and is practiced by non-Christians.\n\nCritics note that traditional prayers such as the Holy Rosary and Lectio Divina engage the heart and mind with Sacred Scripture, while Centering Prayer is \"devoid of content\". The Holy Rosary and Lectio Divina, in contrast, have some contemplative goal in mind: with the Rosary, the Mysteries of the Rosary are contemplated; with Lectio Divina, the practitioner thinks about the Scripture reading, sometimes even visualizing it. \n\nCritics also dispute the claim that Centering Prayer is in the tradition of the Desert Fathers and Carmelite saints, saying that traditional Catholic contemplative prayer is not so much a method of prayer as a stage of prayer in which God's action predominates. They cite the Catechism of the Catholic Church as evidence that meditation and contemplation are two different expressions of prayer.\n\nIn 1989, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, led by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger (later Pope Benedict XVI) issued \"Letter to the Bishops of the Catholic Church on Some Aspects of Christian Meditation.\" The letter addresses problematic elements found in some modern prayer methods, many of which have been influenced by Eastern religions and the New Age movement. Contemplative Outreach, which was founded by Fr. Keating and others to promote Centering Prayer, denies that this letter applies to Centering Prayer and states that Centering Prayer is connected to the Holy Spirit. Opponents of the method, however, point to similarities between the teaching of Fr. Keating and his colleagues and specific criticisms made by the CDF.\n\nIn 2003, the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue and the Pontifical Council for Culture published \"Jesus Christ: The Bearer of the Water of Life, A Christian Reflection on the “New Age.”\" Critics of Centering Prayer once again say their concerns were addressed in this document. Centering Prayer practitioners respond that \"Bearer of the Water of Life\" does not have doctrinal authority, and neither Vatican document mentions Centering Prayer, Contemplative Outreach, or Fr. Keating by name.\n\nPope Francis has not commented on Centering Prayer directly but has spoken very highly of Thomas Merton. Thomas Merton described contemplative prayer as prayer \"centered entirely on the presence of God.\" Pope Francis listed Thomas Merton as one of four great Americans in a speech before the U.S. Congress in September 2015 and encouraged sowing dialogue and peace in \"the contemplative style of Thomas Merton.\" \n\nResearch has been conducted on the Centering Prayer program, indicating that it may be helpful for women receiving chemotherapy,\nand that it may help congregants experience a more collaborative relationship with God, as well as reduced stress.\n\nNewberg explained one study that examined the brains of nuns who engaged in Centering Prayer, which is meant to create a feeling of oneness with God. The nuns' brain scans showed similarities to people who use drugs like psilocybin mushrooms, Newberg said, and both experiences \"tend to result in very permanent changes in the way in which the brain works.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "473317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473317", "title": "Content analysis", "text": "Content analysis\n\nContent analysis is a research method for studying documents and communication artifacts, which might be texts of various formats, pictures, audio or video. Social scientists use content analysis to examine patterns in communication in a replicable and systematic manner. One of the key advantages of using content analysis to analyse social phenomena is its non-invasive nature, in contrast to simulating social experiences or collecting survey answers.\n\nPractices and philosophies of content analysis vary between academic disciplines. They all involve systematic reading or observation of texts or artifacts which are assigned labels (sometimes called codes) to indicate the presence of interesting, meaningful pieces of content. By systematically labeling the content of a set of texts, researchers can analyse patterns of content quantitatively using statistical methods, or use qualitative methods to analyse meanings of content within texts.\n\nComputers are increasingly used in content analysis to automate the labeling (or coding) of documents. Simple computational techniques can provide descriptive data such as word frequencies and document lengths. Machine learning classifiers can greatly increase the number of texts that can be labeled, but the scientific utility of doing so is a matter of debate.\n\nContent analysis is best understood as a broad family of techniques. Effective researchers choose techniques that best help them answer their substantive questions. That said, according to Klaus Krippendorff, six questions must be addressed in every content analysis:\n\n\nThe simplest and most objective form of content analysis considers unambiguous characteristics of the text such as word frequencies, the page area taken by a newspaper column, or the duration of a radio or television program. Analysis of simple word frequencies is limited because the meaning of a word depends on surrounding text. Keyword In Context routines address this by placing words in their textual context. This helps resolve ambiguities such as those introduced by synonyms and homonyms.\n\nA further step in analysis is the distinction between dictionary-based (quantitative) approaches and qualitative approaches. Dictionary-based approaches set up a list of categories derived from the frequency list of words and control the distribution of words and their respective categories over the texts. While methods in quantitative content analysis in this way transform observations of found categories into quantitative statistical data, the qualitative content analysis focuses more on the intentionality and its implications. There are strong parallels between qualitative content analysis and thematic analysis.\n\nMore generally, content analysis is research using the categorization and classification of speech, written text, interviews, images, or other forms of communication. In its beginnings, using the first newspapers at the end of the 19th century, analysis was done manually by measuring the number of lines and amount of space given a subject. With the rise of common computing facilities like PCs, computer-based methods of analysis are growing in popularity. Answers to open ended questions, newspaper articles, political party manifestos, medical records or systematic observations in experiments can all be subject to systematic analysis of textual data.\n\nBy having contents of communication available in form of machine readable texts, the input is analyzed for frequencies and coded into categories for building up inferences.\n\nRobert Weber notes: \"To make valid inferences from the text, it is important that the classification procedure be reliable in the sense of being consistent: Different people should code the same text in the same way\". The validity, inter-coder reliability and intra-coder reliability are subject to intense methodological research efforts over long years.\nNeuendorf suggests that when human coders are used in content analysis two coders should be used. Reliability of human coding is often measured using a statistical measure of \"inter-coder reliability\" or \"the amount of agreement or correspondence among two or more coders\". Lacy and Riffe identify the measurement of inter-coder reliability as a strength of quantitative content analysis, arguing that, if content analysts do not measure inter-coder reliability, their data are no more reliable than the subjective impressions of a single reader.\n\nThere are five types of texts in content analysis:\n\nOver the years, content analysis has been applied to a variety of scopes. Hermeneutics and philology have long used content analysis to interpret sacred and profane texts and, in many cases, to attribute texts' authorship and authenticity.\n\nIn recent times, particularly with the advent of mass communication, content analysis has known an increasing use to deeply analyze and understand media content and media logic. \nThe political scientist Harold Lasswell formulated the core questions of content analysis in its early-mid 20th-century mainstream version: \"Who says what, to whom, why, to what extent and with what effect?\". The strong emphasis for a quantitative approach started up by Lasswell was finally carried out by another \"father\" of content analysis, Bernard Berelson, who proposed a definition of content analysis which, from this point of view, is emblematic: \"a research technique for the objective, systematic and quantitative description of the manifest content of communication\".\n\nQuantitative content analysis has enjoyed a renewed popularity in recent years thanks to technological advances and fruitful application in of mass communication and personal communication research. Content analysis of textual big data produced by new media, particularly social media and mobile devices has become popular. These approaches take a simplified view of language that ignores the complexity of semiosis, the process by which meaning is formed out of language. Quantitative content analysts have been criticized for limiting the scope of content analysis to simple counting, and for applying the measurement methodologies of the natural sciences without reflecting critically on their appropriateness to social science. Conversely, qualitative content analysts have been criticized for being insufficiently systematic and too impressionistic. Krippendorff argues that quantitative and qualitative approaches to content analysis tend to overlap, and that there can be no generalisable conclusion as to which approach is superior.\n\nRecently, Arash Heydarian Pashakhanlou has argued for a combination of quantitative, qualitative, manual and computer-assisted in a single study to offset the weaknesses of a partial content analysis and enhance the reliability and validity of a research project.\n\nContent analysis can also be described as studying traces, which are documents from past times, and artifacts, which are non-linguistic documents. Texts are understood to be produced by communication processes in a broad sense of that phrase—often gaining mean through abduction.\n\nHolsti groups fifteen uses of content analysis into three basic categories:\nHe also places these uses into the context of the basic communication paradigm.\n\nThe following table shows fifteen uses of content analysis in terms of their general purpose, element of the communication paradigm to which they apply, and the general question they are intended to answer.\n\n"}
{"id": "18349854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18349854", "title": "Darwinian Demon", "text": "Darwinian Demon\n\nA Darwinian Demon is a hypothetical organism that would result if there were no biological constraints on evolution. Such an organism would maximize all aspects of fitness simultaneously and would exist if there were no limitations from available variation or physiological constraints. It is named for Charles Darwin. Such organisms would reproduce directly after being born, produce infinitely many offspring, and live indefinitely. Even though no such organisms exist, biologists use Darwinian Demons in thought experiments to understand different life history strategies among different organisms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25283069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25283069", "title": "David Estlund", "text": "David Estlund\n\nDavid Estlund is the Lombardo Family Professor of Philosophy at Brown University. He has been teaching moral and political philosophy at Brown since 1991. He previously taught at University of California, Irvine, and has spent fellowship years at the Program in Ethics at Harvard University and at Australian National University. His research interests center on liberalism, justice, and especially democracy. He sits on the editorial board of the academic journal \"Representation\". He is editor of the collection, Democracy (Blackwell, 2002) and the author of \"\" (Princeton, 2008). He is at work on a book to be called Utopophobia, on questions of realism and idealization in political philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "3157072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3157072", "title": "David Hartman (rabbi)", "text": "David Hartman (rabbi)\n\nDavid Hartman (September 11, 1931 – February 10, 2013) was an American-Israeli leader and philosopher of contemporary Judaism, founder of the Shalom Hartman Institute in Jerusalem, Israel, and a Jewish author.\n\nDavid Hartman was born in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, New York. He attended Yeshiva Chaim Berlin and the Lubavitch Yeshiva, after which he spent time learning in Lakewood Yeshiva. In 1953, having studied under Rabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik, he received his rabbinical ordination from Yeshiva University in New York. He continued his studies with Rabbi Soloveitchik until 1960, while pursuing a graduate degree in philosophy with Robert C. Pollock at Fordham University. In 1971, Hartman immigrated to Israel with his wife Barbara and their five children.\n\nRabbi Hartman died on February 10, 2013 in Jerusalem at the age of 81.\n\nAfter serving as a congregational rabbi in the Bronx, New York, from 1955–1960, Hartman became the Rabbi of Congregation Tiferet Beit David Jerusalem in Montreal. Some of his students moved with him to Israel when he immigrated in 1971. While in Montreal, he also taught and studied at McGill University and received his Ph.D. in philosophy.\nRabbi Hartman founded the Shalom Hartman Institute in Jerusalem in 1976. He was named founding president in 2009, when his son, Donniel Hartman, was named president. In addition to the institute, he founded the Charles E. Smith High School, which operates separate programs for boys and girls, the latter of which is named Midrashiya, in central Jerusalem.\nRabbi Hartman was a Professor of Jewish Thought at Hebrew University of Jerusalem, for over two decades, during which time he was also a visiting Professor of Jewish Thought at the University of California, Berkeley in 1986/1987 and at the University of California, Los Angeles in 1997/1998.\n\nRabbi Hartman viewed his immigration to Israel as an essential part of his mission to encourage greater understanding between Jews of diverse affiliations—both in Israel and the Jewish diaspora—and to build a more pluralistic and tolerant Israeli society.\nHis work emphasized the centrality of the rebirth of the State of Israel and religious pluralism, both among Jews and in interfaith relations. As his views often aligned with Conservative Judaism, some have asked whether he should have been or his writings continue to be considered Orthodox. Elliot Dorff, a leader of Conservative Judaism, described Hartman as \"Orthodox but close to the right border of Conservative Judaism.\"\n\nFrom 1977–1984 Rabbi Hartman served as an advisor to Zevulun Hammer, former Israeli Minister of Education, and he was an advisor to a number of Israeli prime ministers on the subject of religious pluralism in Israel and the relationship between Israel and the Diaspora.\n\n\nHartman’s publications in Jewish philosophy have received wide recognition and become standard references in academic scholarship. He was awarded the National Jewish Book Award in 1977 for \"Maimonides: Torah and Philosophic Quest\" (Jewish Publication Society, Philadelphia, 1976) and in 1986 for the recently reissued \"A Living Covenant: The Innovative Spirit in Traditional Judaism\" (Jewish Lights Publishing, Woodstock, Vermont, 1997 www.jewishlights.com). In 1993, the Hebrew translation of \"A Living Covenant From Sinai to Zion\" (Am Oved Publishers) was awarded the Leah Goldberg Prize. \"A Heart of Many Rooms: Celebrating the Many Voices Within Judaism\" was published by Jewish Lights Publishing in 1999. \"Israelis and the Jewish Tradition: an Ancient People Debating Its Future\" was published by Yale University Press, 2000, \"Love and Terror in the God Encounter: the Theological Legacy of Joseph B. Soloveitchik\" was published by Jewish Lights 2001. The Hebrew translation of \"Israelis and the Jewish Tradition\" (\"Moreshet b’machloket\") was published by Schocken Publishing House, 2002.\n\nHartman was awarded the Avi Chai Prize in the year 2000 and on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Shalom Hartman Institute he was awarded the Guardian of Jerusalem Prize. He was the recipient of an honorary doctorate from Yale University in May 2003. In 2004 David Hartman received an honorary doctorate from Hebrew Union College and was awarded the Samuel Rothberg Prize for Jewish Education by the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. In 2008, David Hartman received an honorary degree from Weizmann Institute of Rehovot, Israel. He received the doctorate \"in recognition of \"his life's work to revitalize Judaism and strengthen Jewish identity among Jews the world over; above all, of his gift of vision and action, faith and scholarship, toward building a more pluralistic, tolerant, and enlightened Israeli society.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56582267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56582267", "title": "Distributed ledger technology law", "text": "Distributed ledger technology law\n\nDistributed ledger technology law (\"DLT law\") (also called Blockchain law. or Lex Cryptographia) is not yet defined and recognized but an emerging field of law due to the recent dissemination of distributed ledger technology application in business and governance environment.\n\nUbiquitous dissemination of information technology and the Internet led to a discussion of two opposite legal theories of the regulation of cyberspace. According to The Law of the Horse theory proposed by Frank H. Easterbrook, general principles of law governing property, transactions and torts apply to any relationship whether in case of the horse or cyberspace and there is no reason to invent new fields of law designated for each. This theory was challenged by Lawrence Lessig, who argued that in case of cyberspace the code may be considered as another way of regulation and therefore the cyberspace may be treated more widely than just another area of relations regulated by conventional legal principles. Employing more liberal approach the DLT law may mean the body of law \"characterized by a set of rules administered through self-executing smart contracts and decentralized (and potentially autonomous) organizations\".\n\nAs of the beginning of 2018 the DLT law does not constitute a separate field of law rather it encompasses aspects of corporate, contract, investment, banking and finance law. According to conservative approach the DLT law may be considered as a part of existent area of law, which may be applied to regulate different aspects of DLT use and new kind of legal relations on blockchain, such as issue of authorisation (electronic signature), admissibility of blockchain evidence in court, status of cryptocurrency and regulation of initial coin offering, use of smart contracts, status of DAO (decentralized autonomous organization) and other.\n\nWhile in the UK and the EU at the beginning of 2018 the legislators are still silent about blockchain technology, in the United States several states already enacted legislation providing a framework for business and legal application of blockchain technology and enforceability of smart contracts.\n\nOn 2 June 2016 Vermont became the first state, which recognised blockchain-based records having legal bearing in a court under the Vermont Rules of Evidence and defined blockchain technology as \"mathematically secured, chronological, and decentralized consensus ledger or database, whether maintained via Internet interaction, peer-to-peer network, or otherwise\"\n\nIn March 2017, Arizona’s Electronic Transactions Act (the AETA) was amended by HB 2417 Act to clarify that “electronic records, electronic signatures, and smart contract terms secured through blockchain technology and governed under UCC Articles 2, 2A and 7 will be considered to be in an electronic form and to be an electronic signature under AETA.” HB 2417 Act also provides a definition of blockchain technology as a “distributed, decentralized, shared and replicated ledger, which may be public or private, permissioned or permissionless, or driven by tokenized crypto economics or tokenless” and definition of smart contract as \"event driven program, with state, that runs on a distributed, decentralized, shared and replicated ledger that can take custody over and instruct transfer of assets on that ledger\".\n\nThe State also identifies areas where blockchain technology should not be used. For instance, the new law adopted in 2017 prohibits the use of blockchain technology to locate or control firearms.\n\nIn June 2017 similar legislation has been enacted in Nevada. In addition, \"Nevada has become the first state to ban local governments from taxing blockchain use\". With regard to the definition of blockchain, the Nevada Senate defines it as \"an electronic record created by the use of a decentralized method by multiple parties to verify and store a digital record of transactions which is secured by the use of a cryptographic hash of previous transaction information\".\n\nOn August 1, 2017, Delaware's blockchain law became effective, which amends the Delaware General Corporation Law explicitly permitting the use of distributed ledger technology in the administration of Delaware corporate records, including records of stock and stockholders. \"Before this new law was adopted, there was nothing specifically stopping a Delaware corporation from using blockchain technology to keep track of its stockholders, but there was also a great deal of regulatory uncertainty.\"\n\nIn the legal context DLT and smart contracts are distinct and face their own problems and challenges. Issue of situs is an example which relates to DLT rather than smart contracts. International private law and legislation of various jurisdictions require to identify the location of an asset or place of an agreement in order to solve conflict of law problem and determine the applicable governing law. \"However, the distribution of the register across nodes in multiple jurisdictions raises a seemingly intractable problem – under current legal principles at least – as to where the situs should be.\" Holding something on DLT, including smart contract or title to an asset, does not isolate it from the legal system and laws of respective jurisdiction. \"Some blockchain enthusiasts may have misinterpreted the statement ‘code is law’ as implying that code can supersede the law or that decentralised networks create their own legal regimes.\"\n\nIn case of a dispute between the parties of the smart contract within the DLT, the issue arises where the distributed ledger is located in order to determine the place for dispute resolution. \"Blockchain also poses questions concerning the ability to identify the parties to a transaction, to the extent a system utilizing this technology remains anonymous, which may rise a host of additional issues related to dispute resolution.\"\n\nAn absence of legal compliance mechanism on DLT, self-executing nature of code on DLT and limited ability to update the code if the law changes create a number of legal issues. There are several possible solutions of addressing these issues. \"One method could be a system in which the relevant jurisdiction creates a publicly available database and application programming interface (API) of relevant legal provisions. These would be provisions related to the terms of the contract. The smart contract would call these terms and would be able to update those provisions terms in accord with the jurisdiction's update of the database.\"\n\nOn more conservative side of DLT and law interaction spectrum are two solutions proposed by Alexander Savelyev:\n\n\"(1) To introduce the concept of a ‘Superuser’ for government authorities, which will have a right to modify the content of Blockchain databases in accordance with a specified procedure in order to reflect the decisions of state authority.\n\n(2) To enforce decisions of state authorities in ‘offline’ mode by pursuing the specific users and forcing them to include changes in Blockchain themselves as well as by using traditional tort claims, unjust enrichment claims, and specific performance claims.\"\n\nSubject to ability of distributed ledger to have access to terms and conditions by which performance of obligations under the smart contract must be assessed the execution of contracts on distributed ledger may be automated. \"In the interest rate swap example, the distributed ledger must have access to assets of the parties' in order to fulfil the parties' payment obligations, and it must have access to a provider of interest rate information.\" The solutions to the issue of access to assets vary and may be solved through locking and release of assets in smart contract as it is performed through use of cryptocurrency Ether on Ethereum blockchain or by introducing new mechanism of access to assets like 'cash states' proposed by Corda distributed ledger. At the same time the solution to the issue of access to information may require use of so-called 'Oracles' - an external parties providing the judgement to determine whether or not respective conditions under the agreement have been met. \"Turning again to the interest rate swap example, an oracle could be used to provide interest rate information on a payment calculation date. The oracle's digital signature would be retained on the distributed ledger so that parties could review the payment process and confirm that payments were made correctly.\"\n"}
{"id": "25336812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25336812", "title": "Donald M. MacKinnon", "text": "Donald M. MacKinnon\n\nDonald Mackenzie MacKinnon (27 August 1913 – 2 March 1994) was a Scottish philosopher and theologian.\n\nHe was born in Oban on 27 August 1913, the son of Donald M. MacKinnon, Procurator Fiscal and his wife, Grace Isabella Rhynd.\n\nHe was educated at Cargilfield Preparatory School in Edinburgh then Winchester College in Hampshire. He then studied Divinty at New College, Oxford graduating MA in 1935. From 1940 he began tutoring at Oxford University becoming a lecturer in Philosophy in 1945. In 1947 he became Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of Aberdeen and in 1960 became the Norris-Hulse Professor of Divinity in the University of Cambridge retiring in 1978. MacKinnon delivered the Gifford Lectures in 1965 and 1966 on ‘The Problem of Metaphysics’. A revised version of the lectures was published under the same name in 1974.\n\nHe was President of the Aristotelian Society 1976/77 and President for the Society for the Study of Theology 1981/82. In 1984 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Thomas F. Torrance, J. MacIntosh, G, Donaldson, David Daiches, G. W. Anderson, Sir Thomas Broun Smith, Rev Ronnie Selby Wright and G. P. Henderson.\n\nHe was a Scottish Episcopalian.\n\nHe died in Aberdeen on 2 March 1994.\n\nIn 1939 he married Lois Dryer.\n\nMacKinnon is noted for his contributions to philosophical theology. He is particularly noted for the depth of analysis he applied to intractable theological problems, not least the refusal to simplify difficult questions in order to produce tidy or conclusive answers. His insistence on truth over tidiness is evident in his method of thought, an approach which some have labelled ‘open-textured’. The label derives from MacKinnon's use of literary, artistic, and political sources in his work - modes of enquiry which operate in contrast to the systematic and epistemologically narrow approach of some theology and philosophy.\n\nThe intensity of MacKinnon's thought was matched by his lecturing style, which was marked by 'his dangerously strong charisma, his ability to terrify adversaries'. Some former students admit to 'spending more time mimicking him than following his arguments about Kant or Hegel'. At Aberdeen he was notorious among the students for talking to the ivy on the walls of King's College. Former students Iris Murdoch, Philippa Foot and Rowan Williams expressed deep indebtedness and admiration for his input into their intellectual development. His influential input into important and relatively widely read thinkers' work, such as Williams and Murdoch, would suggest that MacKinnon’s contribution to theology and philosophy is most strongly felt through the subsequent work of his students. By contrast, MacKinnon did not publish extensively, and that which he did publish is largely in short essay form and out of print.\n\nMacKinnon often used a broadly Kantian metaphysics to determine the limits of a person's knowledge of God. Subsequently, there is a close relationship between God and ethics in MacKinnon’s work. But MacKinnon veers away from concluding that Kant collapsed God into ethics. Nor does he accept - the further conclusion that sometimes follows this - that Kant's epistemology precludes metaphysical realism, i.e. necessitates anti-realism, in ethics and theology. In \"The Problem of Metaphysics\" (1974) MacKinnon develops a Kantian epistemology and comes close to an agnostic position on God, except for the proviso that ethical decision-making has the capacity to make agents aware of a kind of metaphysical realism. He goes on to argue that it is in keeping with a Kantian metaphysics to deduce God from this sense of awareness: 'Kant [is] in the end a theist...His God does not enter into the texture of his exposition...he lies altogether beyond the frontiers of intelligible referential and descriptive statement. [But] we are all the time thrust outside those frontiers, precipitated beyond them by a moral experience on whose formal unity, in the most diverse human situations, Kant insists.' MacKinnon is, in this respect, against interpreters of Kant who consider his epistemology to have anti-realist conclusions. He is also quite specifically against the view that an anti-realist theology needs to be developed as renewed approach to Christian thought, e.g. the approach developed by Don Cupitt.\n\nTragedy - construed as an ethical construct - plays an important part in the awareness of metaphysical realism. MacKinnon illustrates this with examples of tragedy from Shakespeare, Greek thought, and Jesus’ parables, and concludes that ‘[i]t is as if we are constrained in pondering the extremities of human life to acknowledge the transcendent as the only alternative to the kind of trivialisation which would empty of significance the sorts of [tragic] experience with which we have been concerned’.\n\nA Study in Ethical Theory (1957) \nThe Resurrection: a dialogue (1966) with Geoffrey Lampe and William Purcell \n‘Moral Objections’ in Objections to Christian Belief (1967) \nBorderlands of Theology and other essays (1968) \nThe Stripping of the Altars (1969) \nThe Problem of Metaphysics (1974) \nExplorations in Theology, Volume 5 (1979) \nThemes in Theology: The Three-Fold Cord (1987) \nPhilosophy and the Burden of Theological Honesty (2011)\n\nChrist, Ethics and Tragedy: Essays in Honour of Donald MacKinnon (1989) Kenneth Surin, ed. \nThe Philosophical Frontiers of Christian Theology: Essays presented to D.M. Mackinnon (1982) Brian Hebblethwaite and Stewart Sutherland, eds. \n‘Theology through philosophically mediated life: Donald M MacKinnon and Nicholas Lash’ by Daniel Hardy, in The Modern Theologians (1997) David Ford, ed.\n\n"}
{"id": "46933424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46933424", "title": "Drongen Abbey", "text": "Drongen Abbey\n\nDrongen Abbey, or the Old Abbey, Drongen (), is a monastic complex on the River Leie in Drongen, a part of the city of Ghent in East Flanders, Belgium.\n\nFormerly a Premonstratensian abbey, since 1837 the premises have belonged to the Jesuits. In 1998 the whole property, including the garden, was declared a protected monument.\n\nIn the Middle Ages there were two legends regarding the abbey's foundation in the 7th century. According to one, the abbey was built by a certain Basinus, king of Basotes; according to the other, its founder was Saint Amandus, who also founded in Ghent during the same period St. Peter's Abbey and St. Bavo's Abbey. The first occupants were secular canons. The Normans destroyed the abbey in 853 but under Baldwin II, Count of Flanders (879–918), lord of Drongen, it was rebuilt.\n\nIn 1136 Iwein, Count of Aalst, lord of Waas, Drongen and Liedekerke, founded a Premonstratensian abbey at Salegem (Vrasene, Beveren). Two years later, in 1138, the new abbey was moved to Drongen, when the canons accepted the Premonstratensian rules.\n\nIn 1566 the abbey suffered from the \"Beeldenstormer\" (Iconoclasts), and in 1578, during the Ghent Republic, the Calvinists drove out the fathers, who took refuge in the \"Hof van Drongen\", and destroyed the abbey. Its possessions fell into the hands of William the Silent, but were given back by his heirs.\n\nThe abbey church was rebuilt in 1638, and the monastic buildings between 1638 and 1698, leaving the abbey much the same as it is now.\n\nIn 1796, during the French Revolution, the fathers were again driven out, and the abbey suppressed and sold off. Lieven Bauwens installed a cotton mill, which went bankrupt in 1836, and a dyeworks using madder root.\n\nIn 1836 the Jesuits bought part of the abbey buildings for the use of their novices, and in 1848 they bought the remainder of the property. The training continued until 1968, when it stopped for want of vocations, but they continued to provide meditations and retreats, for individuals and groups, and thus the abbey became a retreat centre. Older Jesuits continued to live there, and the abbey also became a Jesuit retirement home.\n\nThe octagonal abbey church in white stone, with a small cupola, was rebuilt in 1734 after a fire. Known as St. Gerolf's Church, it now serves as the parish church of the centre of Drongen.\n\n"}
{"id": "18190064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18190064", "title": "Eyewitness testimony", "text": "Eyewitness testimony\n\nEyewitness testimony is the account a bystander or victim gives in the courtroom, describing what that person observed that occurred during the specific incident under investigation. Ideally this recollection of events is detailed; however, this is not always the case. This recollection is used as evidence to show what happened from a witness' point of view. Memory recall has been considered a credible source in the past, but has recently come under attack as forensics can now support psychologists in their claim that memories and individual perceptions can be unreliable, manipulated, and biased. Due to this, many countries and states within the US are now attempting to make changes in how eyewitness testimony is presented in court. Eyewitness testimony is a specialized focus within cognitive psychology.\n\nPsychologists have probed the reliability of eyewitness testimony since the beginning of the 20th century. One prominent pioneer was Hugo Münsterberg, whose controversial book \"On the Witness Stand\" (1908) demonstrated the fallibility of eyewitness accounts, but met with fierce criticism, particularly in legal circles. His ideas did, however, gain popularity with the public. Decades later, DNA testing would clear individuals convicted on the basis of errant eyewitness testimony. Studies by Scheck, Neufel, and Dwyer showed that many DNA-based exonerations involved eyewitness evidence.\n\nIn the 1970s and '80s, Bob Buckhout showed inter alia that eyewitness conditions can, at least within ethical and other constraints, be simulated on university campuses, and that large numbers of people can be mistaken: \"Nearly 2,000 witnesses can be wrong\" was the title of one paper.\n\nThe mechanisms by which flaws enter eyewitness testimony are varied and can be quite subtle.\n\nOne way is a person's memory being influenced by things seen or heard after the crime occurred. This distortion is known as the post-event misinformation effect (Loftus and Palmer, 1974). After a crime occurs and an eyewitness comes forward, law enforcement tries to gather as much information as they can to avoid the influence that may come from the environment, such as the media. Many times when the crime is surrounded by much publicity, an eyewitness may experience source misattribution. Source misattribution occurs when a witness is incorrect about where or when they have the memory from. If a witness cannot correctly identify the source of their retrieved memory, the witness is seen as not reliable.\n\nWhile some witnesses see the entirety of a crime happen in front of them, some witness only part of a crime. These witnesses are more likely to experience confirmation bias. Witness expectations are to blame for the distortion that may come from confirmation bias. For example, Lindholm and Christianson (1998) found that witnesses of a mock crime who did not witness the whole crime, nevertheless testified to what they expected would have happened. These expectations are normally similar across individuals due to the details of the environment.\n\nEvaluating the credibility of eye-witness testimony falls on all individual jurors when such evidence is offered as testimony in a trial in the United States. Research has shown that mock juries are often unable to distinguish between a false and accurate eyewitness testimony. \"Jurors\" often appear to correlate the confidence level of the witness with the accuracy of their testimony. An overview of this research by Laub and Bornstein shows this to be an inaccurate gauge of accuracy.\n\nResearch on eyewitness testimony looks at systematic variables or estimator variables. Estimator variables are characteristics of the witness, event, testimony, or testimony evaluators. Systematic variables are variables that are, or have the possibility of, being controlled by the criminal justice system. Both sets of variables can be manipulated and studied during research, but only system variables can be controlled in actual procedure.\n\nAmong children, suggestibility can be very high. Suggestibility is the term used when a witness accepts information after the actual event and incorporates it into the memory of the event itself. Children's developmental level (generally correlated with age) causes them to be more easily influenced by leading questions, misinformation, and other post-event details. Compared to older children, preschool-age children are more likely to fall victim to suggestions without the ability to focus solely on the facts of what happened.\n\nIn addition, a recent meta-analysis found that older adults (over age 65) tend to be more susceptible to memory distortion brought about by misleading post-event information, compared to young adults.\n\nMany of the early studies of memory demonstrated how memories can fail to be accurate records of experiences. Because jurors and judges do not have access to the original event, it is important to know whether a testimony is based on actual experience or not.\n\nIn a 1932 study, Frederic Bartlett demonstrated how serial reproduction of a story distorted accuracy in recalling information. He told participants a complicated Native American story and had them repeat it over a series of intervals. With each repetition, the stories were altered. Even when participants recalled accurate information, they filled in gaps with information that would fit their personal experiences. His work showed long term memory to be adaptable. Bartlett viewed schemas as a major cause of this occurrence. People attempt to place past events into existing representations of the world, making the memory more coherent. Instead of remembering precise details about commonplace occurrences, a schema is developed. A schema is a generalization formed mentally based on experience. The common use of these schemas suggests that memory is not an identical reproduction of experience, but a combination of actual events with already existing schemas. Bartlett summarized this issue, explaining \nFurther research of schemas shows memories that are inconsistent with a schema decay faster than those that match up with a schema. Tuckey and Brewer found pieces of information that were inconsistent with a typical robbery decayed much faster than those that were schema consistent over a 12-week period, unless the information stood out as being extremely unusual. The use of schemas has been shown to increase the accuracy of recall of schema-consistent information but this comes at the cost of decreased recall of schema-inconsistent information.\n\nElizabeth Loftus is one of the leading psychologists in the field of eyewitness testimony. She provided extensive research on this topic, revolutionizing the field with her bold stance that challenges the credibility of eyewitness testimony in court. She suggests that memory is not reliable and goes to great lengths to provide support for her arguments. She mainly focuses on the integration of misinformation with the original memory, forming a new memory. \nSome of her most convincing experiments support this claim:\n\nAs early as 1900, psychologists like Alfred Binet recorded how the phrasing of questioning during an investigation could alter witness response. Binet believed people were highly susceptible to suggestion, and called for a better approach to questioning witnesses.\n\nStudies conducted by Crombag (1996) discovered that in an incident involving a crew attempting to return to the airport but were unable to maintain flight and crashed into an 11-story apartment building. Though no cameras caught the moment of impact on film, many news stations covered the tragedy with footage taken after impact. Ten months after the event, the researchers interviewed people about the crash. According to theories about flashbulb memory, the intense shock of the event should have made the memory of the event incredibly accurate. This same logic is often applied to those who witness a criminal act. To test this assumption, participants were asked questions that planted false information about the event. Fifty-five percent of subjects reported having watched the moment of impact on television, and recalled the moment the plane broke out in flames-even though it was impossible for them to have seen either of these occurrences. One researcher remarked, \"[V]ery critical sense would have made our subjects realize that the implanted information could not possibly be true. We are still at a loss as to why so few of them realized this.\"\n\nA survey of research on the matter confirm eyewitness testimony consistently changes over time and based on the type of questioning. The approach investigators and lawyers take in their questioning has repeatedly shown to alter eyewitness response. One study showed changing certain words and phrases resulted in an increase in overall estimations of witnesses.\n\nLaw enforcement, legal professions, and psychologists have worked together in attempts to make eyewitness testimony more reliable and accurate. Geiselman, Fisher, MacKinnon, and Holland saw much improvement in eyewitness memory with an interview procedure they referred to as the cognitive interview. The approach focuses on making witness aware of all events surrounding a crime without generating false memories or inventing details. In this tactic, the interviewer builds a rapport with the witness before asking any questions. They then allow the witness to provide an open ended account of the situation. The interviewer then asks follow up questions to clarify the witness' account, reminding the witness it is acceptable to be unsure and move on. This approach guides the witness over a rigid protocol. When implemented correctly, the CI showed more accuracy and efficiency without additional incorrect information being generated.\n\nCurrently, this is the U.S. Department of Justice's suggested method for law enforcement officials to use in obtaining information from witnesses. Programs training officers in this method have been developed outside the U.S. in many European countries, as well as Australia, New Zealand, and Israel.\n\nWhile some analysis of police interviewing technique reveals this change towards CI interviewing is not put into effect by many officials in the U.S.A. and the U.K., it is still considered to be the most effective means of decreasing error in eyewitness testimony.\n\nExperts debate what changes need to occur in the legal process in response to research on inaccuracy of eyewitness testimony.\n\nIt has been suggested that the jury be given a checklist to evaluate eyewitness testimony when given in court. R. J. Shafer offers this checklist for evaluating eyewitness testimony: \n\nIn 2011, the New Jersey Supreme Court created new rules for the admissibility of eyewitness testimony in court. The new rules require judges to explain to jurors any influences that may heighten the risk for error in the testimony. The rules are part of nationwide court reform that attempts to improve the validity of eyewitness testimony and lower the rate of false conviction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4868799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4868799", "title": "Francisco Sanches", "text": "Francisco Sanches\n\nFrancisco Sanches or Francisco Sánchez (c. 1550 – November 16, 1623) was a Spanish-Portuguese skeptic philosopher and physician of Sephardi Jewish origin.\n\nAlthough he was born in Tui, in Galicia, Spain, Sanches was baptised in Braga, Portugal, on July 25, 1551, and spent his childhood there. His father was the Spaniard Antonio Sánchez, also a physician; and his mother Filipa de Sousa was Portuguese. Being of Jewish origin, even if converted, he was legally considered a New Christian.\n\nHe studied in Braga until he was 12 years old, when he moved to Bordeaux with his parents, escaping the surveillance of the Portuguese Inquisition. There he resumed his studies at the College de Guyenne. He went on to study medicine in Rome in 1569, and, back in France, in Montpellier and Toulouse. He ended up, after 1575, as a professor of philosophy and medicine at the University of Toulouse.\nIn his \"Quod nihil scitur\" (\"That Nothing Is Known\"), written in 1576 and published in 1581, he used the classical skeptical arguments to show that science, in the Aristotelian sense of giving necessary reasons or causes for the behavior of nature, cannot be attained: the search for causes quickly descends into an infinite regress and so cannot give certitude. He also attacked demonstrations in the forms of syllogisms, arguing that the particular (the conclusion) is needed to have a conception of the general (the premises) and thus that syllogisms were circular and did not add to knowledge. \n\nPerfect knowledge, if attainable, is the intuitive apprehension of each individual thing. But, he then argued, even his own notion of science — perfect knowledge of an individual thing — is beyond human capabilities because of the nature of objects and the nature of man. The interrelation of objects, their unlimited number, and their ever-changing character prevent their being known. The limitations and variability of man's senses restrict him to knowledge of appearances, never of real substances. In forming these last argument he drew on his experience of Medicine to show how unreliable our sense experience is.\n\nSanches' first conclusion was the usual fideistic one of the time, that truth can be gained by faith. His second conclusion was to play an important role in later thought: just because nothing can be known in an ultimate sense, we should not abandon all attempts at knowledge but should try to gain what knowledge we can, namely, limited, imperfect knowledge of some of those things with which we become acquainted through observation, experience, and judgment. The realization that \"nihil scitur\" (\"nothing is known\") thus can yield some constructive results. This early formulation of \"constructive\" or \"mitigated\" skepticism was to be developed into an important explication of the new science by Marin Mersenne, Pierre Gassendi, and the leaders of the Royal Society.\n\nEditions\n\nStudies\n"}
{"id": "6145823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6145823", "title": "Garry L. Hagberg", "text": "Garry L. Hagberg\n\nGarry L. Hagberg is an author, professor, philosopher, and jazz musician, He is currently the James H. Ottaway Jr. Professor of Philosophy and Aesthetics at Bard College. \n\nHe received his B.A., M.A. and Ph. D. at the University of Oregon and conducted his postdoctoral research at Cambridge University.\n\nHe held a chair in philosophy at the University of East Anglia.\n\nHagberg became a professor of philosophy at Bard College in 1990. He has been the recipient of many fellowships and grants from Dartmouth College; Cambridge University Library; Institute for the Theory and Criticism of the Visual Arts; British Library, London; St. John's College, and Cambridge University. \n\nAt Bard, he teaches specialized courses on the philosophy of the arts and the history of aesthetic thought; the philosophy of language since 1900; pragmatism; and the development of twentieth-century philosophy, in addition to courses on issues and authors from Plato and Aristotle to the present day.\n\nHagberg is an accomplished jazz guitar player. He is a member of the Atlantic Jazz Trio, which tours in Europe and the United States.\n\nHe is editor of the journal \"Philosophy and Literature\", and has contributed to such publications as \"Historical Reflections\", the \"Henry James Review\", \"Philosophy\", \"Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism\", \"Journal of Aesthetic Education\", \"Mind\", \"New Novel Review\", \"Philosophical Quarterly\", \"Ethics\", \"Perspectives of New Music\", \"Encyclopedia of the Essay\", \"Encyclopedia of Aesthetics\", and \"Routledge Companion to Aesthetics.\" \n\nHis work totals to roughly fifty articles and thirty-five reviews, review-essays, and art catalogue essays.\n\nHagberg is the author of three books: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14769885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14769885", "title": "Gualdrada", "text": "Gualdrada\n\nGualdrada was a member of the nobility in 12th century Florence, Italy. She was a daughter of Bellincion Berti, being a descendent of the Ravignani family, a branch of the Adimari family. \n\nGiovanni Boccaccio's \"On Famous Women (De mulieribus claris)\" biography 103 tells her twelfth century story. During a festival in a Florentine Church of Saint John the Baptist, the Holy Roman Emperor Otto IV came to the city and entered the church with his entourage. From his seat he spotted Gualdrada and was impressed with her beauty. He admired her innocence in youth, the way she dressed, and her personality. He asked an elderly gentleman that was near him, \"Who, pray tell, is that girl there facing us with the beautiful face that in my opinion surpasses all the others in dignity?\"\nThe emperor did not know that he was asking her father. Bellincion answered the emperor, saying, \"Your Majesty, whoever she may be, she will kiss you at my bidding if you desire.\" \n\nGualdrada overheard this and was embarrassed and wished that her father would not be so bold with his offers. She immediately replied,\"Father, please stop. Speak no more. For by Heaven, unless force is used, absolutely no one except the man to whom you will give me in lawful and holy matrimony shall receive what you are offering so freely.\"\n\nThe Emperor was both stunned and impressed by this response from Gualdrada. Learning that he was speaking to her father, he praised her in an eloquent speech to everyone of her virtue. As he was leaving the festival he summoned one of his barons, called Guido, and promoted him to a count. He then presented to Gualdrada a large dowry consisting of Casentino and a part of the territory of Romagna. Gualdrada was then given to Guido in marriage. \n\nFrom the marriage of Gualdrada and Guido came two sons, Guglielmo and Ruggieri. Ruggieri was the father of Guidoguerra, a leader of a group of four hundred Florentines of the Guelf party. They were contributory to the victory in 1265 of Charles of Anjou at Benevento over Manfred of Sicily. In 1266 Charles became King of Sicily.\n\n"}
{"id": "19505170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19505170", "title": "Halen Estate", "text": "Halen Estate\n\nThe Halen Estate (\"Siedlung Halen\") is a housing development near Berne, Switzerland. It was designed and built by the Atelier 5 architectural partnership from 1957 to 1961. Located in a wooded area north of the city, the development is an important example of 20th century Modernist architecture (Structuralism), and as such is listed on the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites.\n\nHalen Estate comprises 81 privately owned houses arranged in three terraces. Built on a hillside, the terraces are reminiscent of steps. The development, quite dense, is also home to a swimming pool and other communal amenities. Most of the buildings are large 3,80m and presents three different levels organized in different cases. The southern part has a ground floor with garden and one bedroom, on the mid level (looking to the common area of the main street) there is the living area, then there is the third level where again we find one bedroom and services.\n\n"}
{"id": "36631495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36631495", "title": "Heart of the Matter (TV series)", "text": "Heart of the Matter (TV series)\n\nHeart of the Matter is a British television debate series that aired on BBC One from 1979 to 2000. Presented variously by Joan Bakewell, Helena Kennedy QC and David Jessel, its subject matter was often concerned with religious or ethical issues. Topics covered include subjects as diverse as substance abuse, the effects of anti-personnel landmines, and homosexuality. Bakewell would usually chair an in-studio debate in which invited guests would discuss the edition's chosen topic. An edition from 1996 hosted by Joan Bakewell, \"The Heart of the Matter: God Under the Microscope\" featured a debate on science and religion and included as guests David Starkey, Mary Warnock, Wentzel van Huyssteen, Richard Dawkins, Polish Roman Catholic priest and 2008 Templeton Prize winner cosmologist Prof. Michael Heller, and James Watson.\n\n\"Heart of the Matter\" was broadcast late on Sunday evenings, usually alternating with the similarly-themed \"Everyman\", though the latter tended to have more of a religious focus. Both programmes were cancelled in the 2000s following a revamp of BBC output.\n\n"}
{"id": "28870090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28870090", "title": "Heinz-Dieter Ebbinghaus", "text": "Heinz-Dieter Ebbinghaus\n\nHeinz-Dieter Ebbinghaus (born 22 February 1939 in Hemer, Province of Westphalia) is a German mathematician and logician.\n\nEbbinghaus wrote various books on logic, set theory and model theory, including a seminal work on Ernst Zermelo. His book \"Einführung in die mathematische Logik\", joint work with Jörg Flum and Wolfgang Thomas, first appeared in 1978 and became a standard textbook of mathematical logic in the German-speaking area. It is currently in its 5th edition. An English edition \"Mathematical logic\" () was published in the Springer-Verlag Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics series in 1984.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5356017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5356017", "title": "Helen Longino", "text": "Helen Longino\n\nHelen Elizabeth Longino (born July 13, 1944) is an American philosopher of science who has argued for the significance of values and social interactions to scientific inquiry. She has written about the role of women in science and is a central figure in feminist epistemology and social epistemology. \nShe is the Clarence Irving Lewis Professor of Philosophy at Stanford University. In 2016, she was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nLongino received her B.A. in English literature from Barnard College in 1966 and her M.A. in philosophy from the University of Sussex, England, in 1967. She earned her PhD from Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland in 1973, under the supervision of Peter Achinstein. Her dissertation dealt with \"Inference and Scientific Discovery\".\n\nLongino taught at the University of California, San Diego (1973–1975), Mills College (1975–1990), Rice University (1990–1995), and the University of Minnesota (1995–2005) before joining the philosophy department of Stanford University.\nShe was active in the women's liberation movement and in establishing women's studies in several institutions.\nShe became the Clarence Irving Lewis Professor of Philosophy in 2008 and served as chair of the philosophy department from 2008 to 2011.\n\nShe served as President of the Philosophy of Science Association (2013–2014), and is the First Vice President of the Division of Logic, Methodology and Philosophy of Science and Technology of the International Union of History and Philosophy of Science (2016–2019).\n\nIn her work, Longino discusses the social dimensions of scientific knowledge and the relations of social and cognitive values. She examines feminist and social epistemologies and their implications for scientific pluralism. Rather than suggesting that there is a distinctively female way of knowing, Longino emphasizes the idea of \"doing epistemology as a feminist\", an approach bringing with it an awareness of the many ways in which a question may be characterized.\n\nIn her first book, \"Science as Social Knowledge\" (1990), Longino argued for the relevance of social values, or values which are part of the human context of science, to the justification of scientific knowledge as objective. In her contextual empiricism, she argues that observations and data of the sort taken by scientists are not by themselves evidence for or against any particular hypotheses. Rather, the relevance of any particular data for any given hypothesis is decided by human beliefs and assumptions about what kinds of data can support what kinds of hypotheses. Moreover, even when the relevance of evidence is decided, there remains a logical gap between evidence and full justification of interesting scientific theories (the traditional philosophical problem of underdetermination of theories). This gap, too, must be bridged by beliefs and assumptions about legitimate reasoning in order for evidence to help us decide which hypotheses to accept as true.\n\nFortunately, the use of diverse perspectives to criticize hypotheses can turn some of those hypotheses into scientific knowledge. Hypotheses become knowledge when they are subjected to scrutiny from diverse perspectives, especially by those with diverse beliefs and values. In contrast to those philosophers who would point to the two evidential gaps above to argue that science is not objective therefore, Longino argues that scrutiny by those with diverse values can instead support the objectivity of science. Accordingly, our values which do not immediately seem to have anything to do with science are crucial to the objectivity of pieces of scientific knowledge, and science can be objective precisely because it is not value-free. From this viewpoint, dissent is important in testing the adequacy of our grounds for accepting a theory. Open critical dialogue within a community can potentially enable the community to overcome bias. To attain objectivity, science must permit and engage with \"transformative criticism\".\n\nLongino's book \"The Fate of Knowledge\" (2002) explores and attempts to reconcile the accounts of knowledge of philosophers and sociologists of science.\n\nMost recently, in \"Studying Human Behavior: How Scientists Investigate Aggression and Sexuality\" (2013), Longino examines five scientific approaches to human aggression and sexuality in terms of their epistemological frameworks, the types of knowledge that they produce, and their pragmatic goals. She argues that different approaches begin from and build upon different causes, each of them producing partial knowledge about the subject. As such, they cannot be reduced to a single perspective. From her perspective in social epistemology, Longino argues that scientific research will be more useful as a guide to public policy makers if the plurality of different approaches to knowledge is acknowledged. Increasing awareness of the range of perspectives to be examined can benefit policy by more thoroughly informing decisions, and also encourage caution about too quickly adopting policy positions based on a limited perspective.\n\nThough her work on the nature of scientific knowledge is broadly feminist in the sense that it argues for the value of contributions by diverse people (and accordingly the value of the contributions of women) to science, some of Longino's other work has been more explicitly feminist and concerned with women. For example, she has presented and analyzed alternative narratives of female and male-centered accounts of human evolution, emphasizing the impact of gender-centered assumptions on the formation of theory.\n\nBeyond the study of knowledge, her writing has included the analysis of the nature of pornography and the circumstances under which it is morally problematic.\n\nIn 2002, Longino's book \"The Fate of Knowledge\" (2001) received the Robert K. Merton Professional Award for best book from the Section for Science, Knowledge, and Technology of the American Sociological Association.\n\nIn 2014, Longino's book \"Studying Human Behavior\" (2013) was awarded the Best Book in Feminist Philosophy Prize for 2014 by the Women's Caucus of the Philosophy of Science Association.\n\nIn 2016 Helen Longino was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She was elected as a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4904138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4904138", "title": "Hogging (sexual practice)", "text": "Hogging (sexual practice)\n\nHogging or sweat hogging refers to the practice of groups of men who target overweight or obese women, typically for sexual encounters. Unlike fat fetishists, men who participate in hogging are not necessarily sexually attracted to obese women's bodies; they aim to take advantage of a female's stereotypical low self-esteem or to derive amusement for themselves and their friends by engaging in sexual activities with women who are overweight.\n\nThe social practice can be undertaken as an individual or group activity, and often includes excessive alcohol consumption, emotional detachment, and degradation of the woman. Hogging does not always include sexual intercourse, and often other sexual activities are the end goal. Participation sometimes includes making bets among male peers, as well as humiliating the woman involved.\n\nHogging has been described as a form of misogyny, and as part of culturally-sanctioned abuse of women in the United States, although the activity has also been observed in Australia. Donna Jarrell, lecturer at Ohio State University and author of \"What Are You Looking At?: the First Fat Fiction Anthology,\" described hogging as a \"sad\" practice, saying that it reveals how \"our attraction or our revulsion to fat has a lot to do with our culture\". She commented that the fat stigma is so extreme that even men who are genuinely attracted to overweight women cannot admit or discuss their feelings.\n\nThe practice has also been suggested as a manifestation of hypermasculinity, in which men who do not fit into normative expectations of manhood exhibit insecurity, defensiveness, and sexual aggression to make up for their incapacity to meet masculine standards. In this manner, hogging is described as a form of sexual predation in which sex is an act of conquest, not intimacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "25326188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25326188", "title": "Ibis redibis nunquam per bella peribis", "text": "Ibis redibis nunquam per bella peribis\n\nIbis redibis nunquam per bella peribis (alternatively Ibis redibis nunquam in bello morieris) is a Latin phrase, often used to illustrate the meaning of syntactic ambiguity to students of either Latin or linguistics. Traditionally, it is attributed to the oracles of Dodona. The phrase is thought to have been uttered to a general consulting the oracle about his fate in an upcoming battle. The sentence is crafted in a way that without punctuation, it can be interpreted in two significantly different ways.\n\nMeaning \"you will go, you will return, never in war will you perish\". The other possibility is the exact opposite in meaning:\n\nThat is: \"you will go, you will never return, in (the) war you will perish\".\n\nA Greek parallel expression with the same meaning is also current: ἤξεις ἀφήξεις, οὐ θνήξεις ἐν πολέμῳ. While Greek authorities have in the past assumed this was the original Dodona oracle (e.g. first edition of Babiniotis dictionary), no ancient instance of the expression is attested, and a future form corresponding to the rhyming θνήξεις (instead of the classical θανεῖ) is first attested from the reign of Nero (Greek Anthology 9.354). The Greek expression is therefore likeliest a modern back-translation from the Latin.\n\nTo say that something is an \"ibis redibis\", usually in the context of legal documents, is to say that its wording is (either deliberately or accidentally) confusing or ambiguous.\n\n"}
{"id": "635016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=635016", "title": "Index of evolutionary biology articles", "text": "Index of evolutionary biology articles\n\nThis is a list of topics in evolutionary biology.\n\nabiogenesis – adaptation – adaptive mutation - adaptive radiation – allele – allele frequency – allopatric speciation – altruism – : anagenesis – anti-predator adaptation – Applications of evolution - aposematism – \"Archaeopteryx\" – aquatic adaptation – artificial selection – atavism\n\nHenry Walter Bates – biological organisation – \"Brassica oleracea\" – breed\n\nCambrian explosion – camouflage – Sean B. Carroll – catagenesis – gene-centered view of evolution – cephalization – Sergei Chetverikov – chronobiology – chronospecies – clade – cladistics – climatic adaptation – coalescent theory – co-evolution – co-operation – coefficient of relationship – common descent – convergent evolution – creation-evolution controversy – cultivar – conspecific song preference\n\nDarwin (unit) – Charles Darwin – Darwinism – Darwin's finches – Richard Dawkins – directed mutagenesis - Directed evolution - directional selection – Theodosius Dobzhansky – Dog breeding – Domestication – Domestication of the horse\n\n\"E. coli\" long-term evolution experiment - ecological genetics – ecological selection – \"Endless Forms Most Beautiful\" – endosymbiosis – error threshold (evolution) – evidence of common descent – evolution – evolutionary arms race – evolutionary capacitance \n\n\"Evolution:\" of ageing – of the brain – of cetaceans – of complexity – of dinosaurs – of the eye – of fish – of the horse – of insects – of human intelligence – of mammalian auditory ossicles – of mammals – of monogamy – of sex – of sirenians – of tetrapods – of the wolf \n\nevolutionary developmental biology – evolutionary dynamics – evolutionary game theory - evolutionary history of life – evolutionary history of plants – evolutionary medicine - evolutionary neuroscience – evolutionary psychology – evolutionary radiation – evolutionarily stable strategy – evolutionary taxonomy - evolutionary tree – evolvability – experimental evolution – exaptation – extinction\n\nJoe Felsenstein – R.A. Fisher – Fisher's reproductive value – fitness – fitness landscape – E.B. Ford – fossil\n\nGalápagos Islands – gene – gene-centric view of evolution – gene duplication – gene flow – gene pool – genetic drift – genetic hitchhiking – genetic recombination – genetic variation – genotype – genotype-environment correlation – genotype-environment interaction – genotype-phenotype distinction – Stephen Jay Gould – gradualism – Peter and Rosemary Grant – group selection\n\nJ. B. S. Haldane – W. D. Hamilton – Hardy-Weinberg principle – heredity – hierarchy of life – history of evolutionary thought – history of speciation – homologous chromosomes – homology (biology) – horizontal gene transfer – human evolution – human evolutionary genetics – human vestigiality – Julian Huxley – Thomas Henry Huxley\n\ninclusive fitness – insect evolution – Invertebrate paleontology (a.k.a. invertebrate paleobiology or paleozoology)\n\nkaryotype — kin selection – Motoo Kimura – koinophilia\n\nJean-Baptiste Lamarck – Lamarckism – landrace – Language – Last universal common ancestor – Level of support for evolution – Richard Lewontin – list of gene families – List of human evolution fossils – life-history theory – Wen-Hsiung Li – living fossils – Charles Lyell\n\nmacroevolution – macromutation – \"The Major Transitions in Evolution\" – maladaptation – \"The Malay Archipelago\" – mass extinctions – mating systems – John Maynard Smith – Ernst Mayr – Gregor Mendel – memetics – Mendelian inheritance – Mesozoic–Cenozoic radiation – microevolution – micropaleontology (a.k.a. micropaleobiology) – Miller–Urey experiment – mimicry – Mitochondrial Eve – modern evolutionary synthesis – molecular clock – molecular evolution – molecular phylogeny – molecular systematics – mosaic evolution – most recent common ancestor – Hermann Joseph Muller – Muller's ratchet – mutation – mutational meltdown\n\nnatural selection - natural genetic engineering – Nature versus nurture – Neo-Darwinism – neutral theory of molecular evolution – Baron Franz Nopcsa - Nothing in Biology Makes Sense Except in the Light of Evolution\n\nSusumu Ohno – Aleksandr Oparin – \"On The Origin of Species\" – Ordovician radiation – origin of birds – origin of language – orthologous genes\n\npaleoanthropology – paleobiology – paleobotany – paleontology – paleozoology (of vertebrates – of invertebrates) – parallel evolution – paraphyletic – particulate inheritance – peppered moth – peppered moth evolution – peripatric speciation – phenotype – phylogenetics – phylogeny – phylogenetic tree – \"Pikaia\" – Plant evolution – polymorphism (biology) – population – population bottleneck – population dynamics – population genetics – preadaptation – prehistoric archaeology – \"Principles of Geology\" – George R. Price – Price equation – punctuated equilibrium\n\nQuantum evolution – quasispecies model\n\nrace (biology) – Red Queen hypothesis – recapitulation theory – recent African origin of modern humans – recombination – Bernhard Rensch – reinforcement (speciation) – Reproductive coevolution in \"Ficus\" – \"r/K\" selection theory\n\nselection – selective breeding – selfish DNA – \"The Selfish Gene\" – sexual selection – signalling theory – sociobiology - Social effects of evolutionary theory – species – speciation – species flock – sperm competition – stabilizing selection – strain (biology) – subspecies – survival of the fittest – symbiogenesis – systematics – George Gaylord Simpson – G. Ledyard Stebbins\n\n\"Tiktaalik\" – timeline of evolution – Trait (biological) – transgressive phenotype – transitional fossil – transposon – tree of life – Triangle of U\n\nunit of selection\n\nvariety (botany) – Vertebrate paleontology (a.k.a. vertebrate paleobiology or paleozoology) – viral evolution – \"The Voyage of the Beagle\" – vestigiality\n\nAlfred Russel Wallace – Wallace effect – Wallace Line – Wallacea – George C. Williams (biologist) – Edward O. Wilson – Sewall Wright\n\nY-chromosomal Adam – Y-DNA haplogroups by ethnic groups\n\n"}
{"id": "7139963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7139963", "title": "Jain meditation", "text": "Jain meditation\n\nJain meditation (\"dhyāna\") has been the central practice of spirituality in Jainism along with the Three Jewels. Jainism holds that emancipation can only be achieved through Meditation or \"Shukla Dhyana.\" According to Sagarmal Jain, it aims to reach and remain in a state of \"pure-self awareness or knowership.\" Meditation is also seen as realizing the self, taking the soul to complete freedom, beyond any craving, aversion and/or attachment. The practitioner strives to be just a knower-seer (\"Gyata-Drashta\"). Jain meditation can be broadly categorized to the auspicious (\"Dharmya Dhyana\" and \"Shukla Dhyana\") and inauspicious (\"Artta\" and \"Raudra Dhyana\"). The 20th century saw the development and spread of new modernist forms of Jain \"Dhyana,\" mainly by monks and laypersons of Śvētāmbara Jainism.\n\nJain meditation is also referred as Sāmāyika. A form of this which includes a strong component of scripture study (Svādhyāya) is mainly promoted by the more conservative Digambara tradition of Jainism. The word \"Sāmāyika\" means being in the moment of continuous real-time. This act of being conscious of the continual renewal of the universe in general and one's own renewal of the individual living being (\"Jiva\") in particular is the critical first step in the journey towards identification with one's true nature, called the \"Atman\". It is also a method by which one can develop an attitude of harmony and respect towards other humans, animals and Nature.\n\nThere are various common postures for Jain meditation, including Padmasana, Ardh-Padmasana, Vajrasana, Sukhasana, standing, and lying down. The 24 Tirthankaras are always seen in one of these two postures in the Kayotsarga (standing) or Padmasana/\"Paryankasana\" (Lotus).\n\nSagarmal Jain divides the history of Jaina yoga and meditation into five stages, 1. pre-canonical (before sixth century BCE), 2. canonical age (fifth century BCE to fifth century CE), 3. post-canonical (sixth century CE to twelfth century CE), age of tantra and rituals (thirteenth to nineteenth century CE), modern age (20th century on). The main change in the canonical era was that Jain meditation became influenced by Hindu Yogic traditions.\n\n \nJains believe all twenty-four Tirthankaras (such as Rishabhanatha) practiced deep meditation, some for years, some for months and attained enlightenment. All the statues and pictures of Tirthankaras primarily show them in meditative postures. Jain tradition believes that meditation derives from Rishabhanatha, the first tirthankara. Some scholars have pointed to evidence from Mohenjodaro and Harappa (such as the pashupati seal) as proof that a pre vedic sramanic meditation tradition is very old in ancient India. However, Sagarmal Jain states that it is very difficult to extract the pre-canonical method of Jain meditation from the earliest sources.\n\nThe earliest mention of yogic practices appear in early Jain canonical texts like the Acaranga, Sutrakritanga and Rsibhasita. The Acaranga for example, mentions Trāṭaka (fixed gaze) meditation, Preksha meditation (self-awareness) and Kayotsarga (\"‘kāyaṃ vosajjamaṇgāre’\", giving up the body). The Acaranga also mentions the tapas practice of standing in the heat of the sun (ātāpanā).\n\nThe Acaranga sutra, one of the oldest Jain texts, describes the solitary ascetic meditation of Mahavira before attaining Kevala Jnana as follows:Giving up the company of all householders whomsoever, he meditated. Asked, he gave no answer; he went, and did not transgress the right path. (AS 312) In these places was the wise Sramana for thirteen long years; he meditated day and night, exerting himself, undisturbed, strenuously. (AS 333) And Mahavira meditated (persevering) in some posture, without the smallest motion; he meditated in mental concentration on (the things) above, below, beside, free from desires. He meditated free from sin and desire, not attached to sounds or colours; though still an erring mortal (khadmastha), he wandered about, and never acted carelessly.(AS 374-375)After more than twelve years of austerities and meditation, the AS states that Mahavira entered the state of Kevala Jnana while doing shukla dhayana, the highest form of meditation:The Venerable Ascetic Mahavira passed twelve years in this way of life; during the thirteenth year in the second month of summer, in the fourth fortnight, the light (fortnight) of Vaisakha, on its tenth day called Suvrata, in the Muhurta called Vigaya, while the moon was in conjunction with the asterism Uttaraphalguni, when the shadow had turned towards the east, and the first wake was over, outside of the town Grimbhikagrama, on the northern bank of the river Rigupalika, in the field of the householder Samaga, in a north-eastern direction from an old temple, not far from a Sal tree, in a squatting position with joined heels exposing himself to the heat of the sun, with the knees high and the head low, in deep meditation, in the midst of abstract meditation, he reached Nirvana, the complete and full, the unobstructed, unimpeded, infinite and supreme best knowledge and intuition, called Kevala.According to Samani Pratibha Pragya, early Jain texts like the \"Uttarādhyayana-sūtra\" and the \"Āvaśyaka-sūtra\" are also important sources for early Jain meditation. The \"Uttarādhyayana-sūtra\" \"offers a systematic presentation of four types of meditative practices such as: meditation (dhyāna), abandonment of the body (kāyotsarga), contemplation (anuprekṣā), and reflection (bhāvanā).\" Pragya argues that \"we can conclude that Mahāvīra’s method of meditation consisted of perception and concentration in isolated places, concentration that sought to be unaffected by physical surroundings as well as emotions.\" Pragya also notes that fasting was an important practice done alongside meditation. The intense meditation described in these texts \"is an activity that leads to a state of motionlessness, which is a state of inactivity of body, speech and mind, essential for eliminating karma.\" The \"Uttarādhyayana-sūtra\" also describes the practice of contemplation (anuprekṣā).\n\nAnother meditation described in the Āvaśyaka-sūtra is meditation on the tīrthaṅkaras.\n\nIn this era, the Jain canon was recorded and Jain philosophy systematized. It is clear that Jain meditation and samadhi continued to evolve and to be practiced after the death of Mahavira by figures such as Acharya Bhadrabahu and Chandragupta Maurya, the founder of Maurya Empire who became a Jain monk in old age and a student of Bhadrabahu. It describes Mahavira as practicing intense austerities, fasts (most commonly three days long, as extreme as six months of fasting) and meditations. In one instance he practiced standing meditation for sixteen days and nights. He did this by facing each of the four directions for a period of time, and then turning to face the intermediate directions as well as above and below.\n\nThis period also sees the elucidation of the practice of contemplation (anuprekṣā) by Kundakunda's \"Vārassa-aṇuvekkhā\" or “Twelve Contemplations” (c. 1st century BCE to 1st century CE). These twelve forms of reflection (\"bhāvanā\") aid in the stopping of the influx of karmas that extend transmigration. These twelve reflections are:\n\n\nIn his \"Niyamasara\", Acarya Kundakunda, also describes \"yoga bhakti\"—devotion to the path to liberation—as the highest form of devotion.\n\nThe Sthananga Sutra (c. 2nd century BCE) gives a summary of four main types of meditation (dhyana) or concentrated thought. The first two are mental or psychological states in which a person may become fully immersed and are causes of bondage. The other two are pure states of meditation and conduct, which are causes of emancipation. They are:\n\n\nThis broad definition of the term dhyana means that it signifies any state of deep concentration, with good or bad results. Later texts like Umaswati's \"Tattvārthasūtra\" and Jinabhadra's \"Dhyana-Sataka\" (sixth century) also discusses these four dhyanas. This system seems to be uniquely Jain. \n\nDuring this era, a key text was the \"Tattvarthasutra\" by Acharya Umāsvāti which codified Jain doctrine. According to the \"Tattvarthasutra,\" yoga is the sum of all the activities of mind, speech and body. Umāsvāti (fl. sometime between the 2nd and 5th-century CE) calls yoga the cause of \"asrava\" or karmic influx as well as one of the essentials—\"samyak caritra\"—in the path to liberation. Umāsvāti prescribed a threefold path of yoga: right conduct/austerity, right knowledge, right faith. Umāsvāti also defined a series of fourteen stages of spiritual development (guṇasthāna), into which he embedded the four fold description of dhyana. These stages culminate in the pure activities of body, speech, and mind (\"sayogi-kevala\"), and the \"cessation of all activity\" (\"ayogi-kevala\"). Umāsvāti also defined meditation in a new way (as \"‘ekāgra-cintā’\"): “Concentration of thought on a single object by a person with good bone-joints is meditation which lasts an intra-hour (\"ā-muhūrta\")”Other important figures are Jinabhadra, and Pujyapada Devanandi (wrote the commentary \"Sarvārthasiddhi\"). Sagarmal Jain notes that during the canonical age of Jaina meditation, one finds strong analogues with the 8 limbs of Patanjali Yoga, including the yamas and niyamas, through often under different names. Sagarmal also notes that during this period the Yoga systems of Jainism, Buddhism and Patanjali Yoga had many similarities. \n\nIn spite of this literature, Dundas claims that Jainism never “fully developed a culture of true meditative contemplation,” he further states that later Jaina writers discussed meditation more out of “theoretical interest.”\n\nThis period saw new texts specifically on Jain meditation and further Hindu influences on Jain yoga. Ācārya Haribhadra in the 8th century wrote the meditation compendium called \"Yogadṛṣṭisamuccya\" which discusses systems of Jain yoga, Patanjali Yoga and Buddhist yoga and develops his own unique system that are somewhat similar to these. Ācārya Haribhadra assimilated many elements from Patañjali’s Yoga-sūtra into his new Jain yoga (which also has eight parts) and composed four texts on this topic, \"Yoga-bindu\", \"Yogadṛṣṭisamuccaya, Yoga-śataka\" and \"Yoga-viṅśikā\". Johannes Bronkhorst considers Haribhadra's contributions a \"far more drastic departure from the scriptures.\" He worked with a different definition of yoga than previous Jains, defining yoga as \"that which connects to liberation\" and his works allowed Jainism to compete with other religious systems of yoga. \n\nThe first five stages of Haribhadra's yoga system is preparatory and includes posture and so on. The sixth stage is kāntā [pleasing] and is similar to Patañjali's \"Dhāraṇā.\" It is defined as \"a higher concentration for the sake of compassion toward others. Pleasure is never found in externals and a beneficial reflection arises. In this state, due to the efficacy of dharma, one’s conduct becomes purified. One is beloved among beings and single-mindedly devoted to dharma. (YSD, 163) With mind always fixed on scriptural dharma.\" The seventh stage is radiance (prabhā), a state of calmness, purification and happiness as well as \"the discipline of conquering amorous passion, the emergence of strong discrimination, and the power of constant serenity.\" The final stage of meditation in this system is 'the highest' (parā), a \"state of Samadhi in which one becomes free from all attachments and attains liberation.\" Haribhadra sees this as being in \"the category of “ayoga” (motionlessness), a state which we can compare with the state just prior to liberation.\"\n\nAcarya Haribhadra (as well as the later thinker Hemacandra) also mentions the five major vows of ascetics and 12 minor vows of laity under yoga. This has led certain Indologists like Prof. Robert J. Zydenbos to call Jainism, essentially, a system of yogic thinking that grew into a full-fledged religion. The five yamas or the constraints of the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\" bear a resemblance to the five major vows of Jainism, indicating a history of strong cross-fertilization between these traditions. \n\nLater works also provide their own definitions of meditation. The \"Sarvārthasiddhi\" of Akalanka (9 th c. CE) states \"only the knowledge that shines like an unflickering flame is meditation.\" According to Samani Pratibha Pragya, the Tattvānuśāsana of Ramasena (10th c. CE) states that this knowledge is \"many-pointed concentration (\"vyagra\") and meditation is one-pointed concentration (\"ekāgra\").\"\n\nThis period sees tantric influences on Jain meditation, which can be gleaned in the Jñānārṇava of Śubhacandra (11thc. CE), and the Yogaśāstra of Hemacandra (12th c. CE). Śubhacandra offered a new model of four meditations:\n\n\nŚubhacandra also discusses breath control and withdrawal of the mind. Modern scholars such as Mahāprajña have noted that this system of yoga already existed in Śaiva tantra and that Śubhacandara developed his system based on the \"Navacakreśvara-tantra\" and that this system is also present in Abhinavagupta’s Tantrāloka\".\" \n\nThe Yogaśāstra of Hemacandra (12th c. CE) closely follows the model of Śubhacandra. This trend of adopting ideas from the Brāhmaṇical and tantric Śaiva traditions continues with the work of the later Śvetāmbara upādhyāya Yaśovijaya (1624–1688), who wrote many works on yoga.\n\nDuring the 17th century, Ācārya Vinayavijaya composed the \"Śānta-sudhārasabhāvanā\" in Sanskrit which teaches sixteen anuprekṣā, or contemplations.\n\nThe growth and popularity of mainstream Yoga and Hindu meditation practices influenced a revival in various Jain communities, especially in the Śvētāmbara Terapanth order. These systems sought to \"promote health and well-being and pacifism, via meditative practices as “secular” nonreligious tools.\" 20th century Jain meditation systems were promoted as universal systems accessible to all, drawing on modern elements, using new vocabulary designed to appeal to the lay community, whether Jains or non-Jains. It is important to note that these developments happened mainly among Śvētāmbara sects, while Digambara groups generally did not develop new modernist meditation systems. Digambara sects instead promote the practice of self-study (Svādhyāya) as a form of meditation, influenced by the work of Kundakunda. This practice of self study (reciting scriptures and thinking about the meaning) is included in the practice of equanimity (sāmāyika) which is the spiritual practice emphasized by 20th century Digambara sects.\n\nThe modern era saw the rise of a new Śvētāmbara sect, the Śvētāmbara Terapanth, founded by Ācārya Bhikṣu, who was said to be able to practice breath retention (hold his breath) for two hours. He also practiced ātāpanā by sitting under the scorching sun for hours while chanting and visualizing yantras. Further Terapanth scholars like Jayācārya wrote on various meditation practices, including a devotional visualization of the tīrthaṅkaras in various colors and “awareness of breathing” (sāsā-surat), this influenced the later “perception of breathing” (śvāsa–prekṣā) and the meditation on auras (leśyā-dhyāna) of Ācārya Mahāprajña.\n\nTulasī (1913–1997) and Ācārya Mahāprajña (1920– 2010) developed a system termed \"prekṣā-dhyāna\" which included \"meditative techniques of mantra, posture (āsana), breath control (prāṇāyāma), hand and body gestures (mudrā), various bodily locks (bandha), meditation (dhyāna) and reflection (bhāvanā).\" Through the use of numerous different sources, including Jain scripture and tradition, SN Goenka's vipassanā meditation (Mahāprajña attended retreats in this tradition), Patañjali’s Yoga-sūtra, the Haṭha yoga tradition and Western science and therapies. The key texts of this meditation system are \"Prekṣā-Dhyāna: Ādhāra aura Svarūpa\" (Prekṣā Meditation: Basis and Form, 1980), \"Prekṣā-Dhyāna: Prayoga aura Paddhatti\" (Prekṣā Meditation: Theory and Practice, 2010) and \"Prekṣā-Dhyāna: Darśana aura Prayoga\" (Prekṣā Meditation: Philosophy and Practice, 2011). Despite the innovations, the meditation system it is said is firmly grounded in the classic Jain metaphysical mind body dualism in which the self (jiva, characterized by consciousness, \"cetana\" which consists of knowledge, \"jñāna\" and intuition, \"darśana\") is covered over by subtle and gross bodies.\n\n\"Prekṣā\" means \"to perceive carefully and profoundly\". In \"prekṣā\", perception always means an impartial experience bereft of the duality of like and dislike, pleasure and pain, attachment or aversion. Meditative progress proceeds through the different gross and subtle bodies, differentiating between them and the pure consciousness of jiva. Mahāprajña interprets the goal of this to mean to “perceive and realise the most subtle aspects of consciousness by your conscious mind (\"mana\").” Important disciplines in the system are - Synchrony of mental and physical actions or simply present mindedness or complete awareness of one's actions, disciplining the reacting attitude, friendliness, diet, silence, spiritual vigilance.\n\nThe mature \"prekṣā\" system is taught using an eight limb hierarchical schema, where each one is necessary for practicing the next:\n\n\nA few important contemplation themes are - Impermanence, Solitariness, and Vulnerability. Regular practice is believed to strengthen the immune system and build up stamina to resist against aging, pollution, viruses, diseases. Meditation practice is an important part of the daily lives of the religion's monks.\n\nMahāprajña also taught subsidiary limbs to \"prekṣā-dhyāna\" which would help support the meditations in a holistic manner, these are Prekṣā-yoga (posture and breathing control) and Prekṣā-cikitsā (therapy). Mantras such as \"Arham\" are also used in this system.\n\nCitrabhānu (b. 1922) was a Jain monk who moved to the West in 1971, and founded the first Jain meditation center in the world, the Jaina Meditation International Centre in New York City. He eventually married and became a lay teacher of a new system called \"Jain meditation\" (JM), on which he wrote various books. The core of his system consists of three steps (tripadī): 1. who am I? (kohum), 2. I am not that (nahum) (not non-self), 3. I am that (sohum) (I am the self). He also makes use of classic Jain meditations such as the twelve reflections (thought taught in a more optimistic, modern way), Jaina mantras, meditation on the seven chakras, as well as Hatha Yoga techniques.\n\nĀcārya Suśīlakumāra (1926–1994) of the Sthānakavāsī tradition founded “Arhum Yoga” (Yoga on Omniscient) and established a Jain community called the “Arhat Saṅgha” in New Jersey in 1974. His meditation system is strongly tantric and employs mantras (mainly the namaskār), nyasa, visualization and chakras.\n\nThe Sthānakavāsī Ācārya Nānālāla (1920–1999), developed a Jaina meditation called Samīkṣaṇa-dhyāna (looking at thoroughly, close investigation) in 1981. The main goal of samīkṣaṇa-dhyāna is the experience of higher consciousness within the self and liberation in this life. Samīkṣaṇa-dhyāna is classified into two categories: introspection of the passions (kaṣāya samīkṣaṇa) and samatā-samīkṣaṇa, which includes introspection of the senses (indriya samīkṣaṇa), introspection of the vow (vrata samīkṣaṇa) introspection of the karma (karma samīkṣaṇa), introspection of the Self (ātma samīkṣaṇa) and others.\n\nBhadraṅkaravijaya (1903–1975) of the Tapāgaccha sect founded “Sālambana Dhyāna” (Support Meditation). According to Samani Pratibha Pragya, most of these practices \"seem to be a deritualisation of pūjā in a meditative form, i.e. he recommended the mental performance of pūjā.\" These practices (totally 34 different meditations) focus on meditating on arihantas and can make use of mantras, hymns (stotra), statues (mūrti) and diagrams (yantra). \n\nĀcārya Śivamuni (b. 1942) of the Śramaṇa Saṅgha is known for his contribution of “Ātma Dhyāna” (Self-Meditation). The focus in this system is directly meditating on the nature of the self, making use of the mantra \"so’ham\" and using the Acaranga sutra as the main doctrinal source.\n\nMuni Candraprabhasāgara (b. 1962) introduced “Sambodhi Dhyāna” (Enlightenment-Meditation) in 1997. It mainly makes use of the mantra Om, breathing meditation, the chakras and other yogic practices.\n\nThe name \"Sāmāyika\", the term for Jain meditation, is derived from the term \"samaya\" \"time\" in Prakrit. Jains also use \"samayika\" to denote the practice of meditation. The aim of \"Sāmāyika\" is to transcend our daily experiences as the \"constantly changing\" human beings, called Jiva, and allow identification with the \"changeless\" reality in practitioner, called the atman. One of the main goals of \"Sāmāyika\" is to inculcate equanimity, to see all the events equanimously. It encourages to be consistently spiritually vigilant. \"Sāmāyika\" is practiced in all the Jain sects and communities. Samayika is an important practice during Paryushana, a special eight- or ten-day period.\n\nIn Jainism, six essential duties are prescribed for a \"śrāvaka\" (householder), out of which one duty is \"Samayika\". These help the laity in achieving the principle of \"ahimsa\" which is necessary for his/her spiritual upliftment. The \"sāmayika vrata\" (vow to meditate) is intended to be observed three times a day if possible; other-wise at least once daily. Its objective is to enable the \"śrāvaka\" to abstain from all kinds of sins during the period of time fixed for its observance. The usual duration of the \"sāmayika\" vow is an \"antara mūharta\" (a period of time not exceeding 48 minutes). During this period, which the layman spends in study and meditation, he vows to refrain from the commission of the five kinds of sin — injury, falsehood, theft, unchastity and love of material possessions in any of the three ways. These three ways are:- \n\nIn performing \"sāmayika\" the \"śrāvaka\" has to stand facing north or east and bow to the \"Pañca-Parameṣṭhi\". He then sit down and recites the Namokara mantra a certain number of times, and finally devotes himself to holy meditation. This consists in:\n\"Sāmayika\" can be performed anywhere- a temple, private residence, forest and the like. But the place shouldn't be open to disturbance. According to the Jain text, Ratnakaranda śrāvakācāra, while performing \"sāmayika\", one should meditate on:\n\nThe ascetic has to perform the \"sāmāyika\" three times a day. Champat Rai Jain in his book, \"The Key of Knowledge\" wrote:\n\nIn 1017 Shreepujya Shree Vardhamana Suri of the Kharatara Gaccha - one of Shvetambara Murtipujaka Gaccha sect revived the meditation Satya Sadhna and, since then, it has been a part of Kharatara Gaccha ever since. Satya Sadhna follows the processes of meditation in the Jain context based on the Tripadi and its expansion-explanations in the Agamas. \n\nOne exposition of the Tripadi is explained as: \n\n\nAccording to the some commonly practiced \"yoga\" systems, high concentration is reached by meditating in an easy (preferably lotus) posture in seclusion and staring without blinking at the rising sun, a point on the wall, or the tip of the nose, and as long as one can keep the mind away from the outer world, this strengthens concentration. \"Garuda\" is the name Jainism gives to the yoga of self-discipline and discipline of mind, body and speech, so that even earth, water, fire and air can come under one’s control. \"Śiva\" is in Jainism control over the passions and the acquisition of such self-discipline that under all circumstances equanimity is maintained.\n\n\"Prānayāma\" – breathing exercises – are performed to strengthen the flows of life energy. Through this, the elements of the constitution – earth, water, fire and air – are also strengthened. At the same time the five \"chakras\" are controlled. \"Prānayāma\" also helps to stabilize one’s thinking and leads to unhampered direct experience of the events around us.\n\nNext one practices \"pratyāhāra\". Pratyāhāra means that one directs the senses away from the enjoyment of sensual and mental objects. The senses are part of the nervous system, and their task is to send data to the brain through which the mind as well as the soul is provided with information. The mind tends to enjoy this at the cost of the soul as well as the body. \"Pratyāhāra\" is obtained by focusing the mind on one point for the purpose of receiving impulses: on the eyes, ears, tip of the nose, the brow, the navel, the head, the heart or the palate.\n\nContemplation is an important wing in Jain meditation. The practitioner meditates or reflects deeply on subtle facts or philosophical aspects. The first type is \"Agnya vichāya\", in which one meditates deeply on the seven elementary facts - life and non-life, the inflow, bondage, stoppage and removal of \"karmas\", and the final accomplishment of liberation. The second is \"Apaya vichāya\", in which incorrect insights and behavior in which “sleeping souls” indulge, are reflected upon. The third is \"Vipaka vichāya dharma dhyāna\", in which one reflects on the eight causes or basic types of \"karma\". The fourth is \"Sansathan vichāya dharma dhyāna\", when one thinks about the vastness of the universe and the loneliness of the soul, which has had to face the results of its own causes all alone. A few important contemplation themes in Preksha meditation are - Impermanence, Solitariness, Vulnerability.\nIn \"pindāstha-dhyāna\" one imagines oneself sitting all alone in the middle of a vast ocean of milk on a lotus flower, meditating on the soul. There are no living beings around whatsoever. The lotus is identical to \"Jambūdvīpa\", with Mount \"Meru\" as its stalk. Next the meditator imagines a 16-petalled lotus at the level of his navel, and on each petal are printed the (Sanskrit) letters “arham“ and also an inverted lotus of 8 petals at the location of his heart. Suddenly the lotus on which one is seated flares up at the navel and flames gradually rise up to the inverted lotus, burning its petals with a rising golden flame which not only burns his or her body, but also the inverted lotus at the heart. The flames rise further up to the throat whirling in the shape of a swastika and then reach the head, burning it entirely, while taking the form of a three-sided pyramid of golden flames above the head, piercing the skull sharp end straight up. The whole physical body is charred, and everything turns into glowing ashes. Thus the \"pinda\" or body is burnt off and the pure soul survives. Then suddenly a strong wind blows off all the ashes; and one imagines that a heavy rain shower washes all the ashes away, and the pure soul remains seated on the lotus. That pure Soul has infinite virtues, it is Myself. Why should I get polluted at all? One tries to remain in his purest nature. This is called \"pindāstha dhyāna\", in which one ponders the reality of feeling and experiencing.\n\nIn \"padāstha dhyāna\" one focuses on some mantras, words or themes. Couple of important mantra examples are, OM - it signifies remembrance of the five classes of spiritual beings (the embodied and non-embodied Jinas, the ascetics, the monks and the nuns), pronouncing the word “Arham” makes one feel “I myself am the omniscient soul” and one tries to improve one’s character accordingly. One may also pronounce the holy name of an \"arhat\" and concentrate on the universal richness of the soul.\n\nIn \"rūpāstha dhyāna\" one reflects on the embodiments of arihants, the svayambhuva (the self-realized), the omniscients and other enlightened people and their attributes, such as three umbrellas and whiskers – as seen in many icons – unconcerned about one’s own body, but almighty and benevolent to all living beings, destroyer of attachment, enmity, etc. Thus the meditator as a human being concentrates his or her attention on the virtues of the omniscients to acquire the same virtues for himself.\n\n\"Rūpātita dhyāna\" is a meditation in which one focuses on bodiless objects such as the liberated souls or siddhas, which stand individually and collectively for the infinite qualities that such souls have earned. That omniscient, potent, omnipresent, liberated and untainted soul is called a \"nirañjāna\", and this stage can be achieved by right vision, right knowledge and right conduct only. Right vision, right knowledge and right conduct begin the fourth stage of the 14-fold path.\n\nThe ultimate aim of such yoga and meditation is to pave the way for the spiritual elevation and salvation of the soul. Some yogis develop their own methods for meditation.\n\n"}
{"id": "5903454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5903454", "title": "James H. Austin", "text": "James H. Austin\n\nJames H. Austin is an American neurologist and author. He is the author of the book \"Zen and the Brain\". It establishes links between the neurophysiology of the human brain and the practice of meditation, and won the Scientific and Medical Network Book Prize for 1998. He has written five sequels: \"Zen-Brain Reflections\" (2006), \"Selfless Insight\" (2009), \"Meditating Selflessly\" (2011), \"Zen-Brain Horizons\" (2014) and \"Living Zen Remindfully\" (2016).\n\nAustin has been an academic neurologist for most of his career, first at the University of Oregon Medical School, then as chairman of neurology at the University of Colorado School of Medicine. He is currently Emeritus professor of neurology at the University of Colorado Medical School, Denver and visiting professor of neurology at the University of Florida School of Medicine. His publications number over 140 articles involving research in the areas of clinical neurology, neuropathology, neurochemistry and neuropharmacology.\n\nAustin has been a practicing Zen Buddhist since 1974. He began in Kyoto at Daitoku-ji as a student of the Rinzai roshi Kobori Nanrei Sohaku.\n\nAfter eight years of regular Zen meditation, Austin experienced the taste of what Zen practice calls \"kenshō\". The chief characteristic of this experience was a loss of the sense of \"self\" which is so central to human identity, plus a feeling that \"Just This\" is the way all things really are in the world. While he was on a sabbatical in England, he was waiting for an Underground train when he suddenly entered a state of enlightenment unlike anything he had ever experienced. In Austin's words, \"It strikes unexpectedly at 9 am on the surface platform of the London subway system. [Due to a mistake] ... I wind up at a station where I have never been before...The view includes the dingy interior of the station, some grimy buildings, a bit of open sky above and beyond. Instantly the entire view acquires three qualities: Absolute Reality, Intrinsic Rightness, Ultimate Perfection.\"\n\n\"With no transition, it is all complete...Yes, there is the paradox of this extraordinary viewing. But there is no viewer. The scene is utterly empty, stripped of every last extension of an I-Me-Mine [his name for ego-self]. Vanished in one split second is the familiar sensation that this person is viewing an ordinary city scene. The new viewing proceeds impersonally, not pausing to register the paradox that there is no human subject \"doing\" it. Three insights penetrate the experient, each conveying Total Understanding at depths far beyond simple knowledge: This is the eternal state of affairs. There is nothing more to do. There is nothing whatsoever to fear.\"\n\nAustin writes that when his former subjective self was no longer there to form biased interpretations this experience conveyed the impression of \"objective reality.\" As a neurologist, he interpreted this experience not as proof of a reality beyond the comprehension of our senses but as arising from the brain itself. This and other experiences and research led him to write \"Zen and the Brain\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13240927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13240927", "title": "Jan Hus Memorial", "text": "Jan Hus Memorial\n\nThe Jan Hus Memorial stands at one end of Old Town Square, Prague in the Czech Republic. The huge monument depicts victorious Hussite warriors and Protestants who were forced into exile 200 years after Hus in the wake of the lost Battle of the White Mountain during the Thirty Years' War, and a young mother who symbolises national rebirth. The monument was so large that the sculptor designed and built his own villa and studio where the work could be carried out. It was unveiled in 1915 to commemorate the 500th anniversary of Jan Hus' martyrdom. The memorial was designed by Ladislav Šaloun and paid for solely by public donations. \n\nBorn in 1369, Hus became an influential religious thinker, philosopher, and reformer in Prague. He was a key predecessor to the Protestant movement of the sixteenth century. In his works he criticized religious moral decay of the Catholic Church. Accordingly, the Czech patriot Hus believed that mass should be given in the vernacular, or local language, rather than in Latin. He was inspired by the teachings of John Wycliffe. In the following century, Hus was followed by many other reformers - e.g. Martin Luther, John Calvin and Huldrych Zwingli. Hus was ultimately condemned by the Council of Constance and burned at the stake in 1415. This led to the Hussite Wars.\n\nTo the people of Bohemia and other regions around Prague, Jan Hus became a symbol of dissidence and a symbol of strength against oppressive regimes. His opposition to church control by the Vatican gave strength to those who opposed control of Czech lands by the Habsburgs in the 19th century, and Hus soon became a symbol of anti-Habsburg rule. He is said to stand arrogantly in the square in defiance of the cathedral before him. In 1918, a Marian Column that had been erected in the square shortly after the Thirty Years' War was demolished in celebration of independence from the Habsburg monarchy.\n\nWhen Czechoslovakia was under Communist rule, sitting at the feet of the Jan Hus memorial became a way of quietly expressing one's opinion and opposition against the Communist rule.\n\nThe memorial was restored in 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18167211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18167211", "title": "Jason Barker", "text": "Jason Barker\n\nJason Barker is a British theorist of contemporary French philosophy, a film director, screenwriter and producer. He is a professor of cultural studies at Kyung Hee University in the Graduate School of British and American Language and Culture, and visiting professor at the European Graduate School, where he teaches in the Faculty of Media and Communication alongside Alain Badiou, Judith Butler, Jacques Rancière, Avital Ronell, Slavoj Žižek, and others.\n\nMost notable for his translation and introductions to the philosophy of Alain Badiou, Barker draws on an eclectic range of influences including Neoplatonism, Lacanian psychoanalysis and Marxism. Writing in both the English and French languages, Barker has also contributed to debates in post-Marxism.\n\nIn an article published in \"The Guardian\" in February 2012, Barker criticised the selective interpretation of Karl Marx's writings by economists such as Nouriel Roubini when responding to the global recession. According to Barker such interpretations water down the revolutionary aspects of Marx's ideas and focus unduly on their reformist tendencies. \n\nWriting in \"The New York Times\" on the occasion of the Marx bicentennial anniversary, Barker argued that \"The key factor in Marx’s intellectual legacy in our present-day society is not 'philosophy' but 'critique,' or what he described in 1843 as 'the ruthless criticism of all that exists: ruthless both in the sense of not being afraid of the results it arrives at and in the sense of being just as little afraid of conflict with the powers that be.'\" \n\nBarker is the author of \"Marx Returns\". The story focuses on the life of Karl Marx and his struggle to write his major work on political economy, \"Capital\". Philosopher Ray Brassier described it as \"Curious, funny, perplexing, and irreverent,\" and according to Nina Power, reviewing the work in the \"Los Angeles Review of Books\", \"Marx Returns\" is \"an imaginative, uplifting, and sometimes disturbing alternative history.\"\n\nBarker is the writer, director and producer of the 2011 partly animated documentary film \"Marx Reloaded\", which considers the relevance of Karl Marx's ideas in the aftermath of the global economic and financial crisis of 2008—09. The film includes interviews with several distinguished philosophers including Michael Hardt, Antonio Negri, Nina Power, Jacques Rancière, John N. Gray, Alberto Toscano, Peter Sloterdijk and Slavoj Žižek.\n\n\"The London Evening Standard\" cited the film alongside the 2012 re-edition of the \"Communist Manifesto\" and Owen Jones' best-selling book \"\" as evidence of a resurgence of left-wing ideas.\n\nBritish philosopher Simon Critchley has described \"Marx Reloaded\" as \"a great introduction to Marx for a new generation\", while German political scientist Herfried Münkler has called it \"the type of film that Marx himself would have approved of\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42870891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42870891", "title": "Jesus: Apocalyptic Prophet of the New Millennium", "text": "Jesus: Apocalyptic Prophet of the New Millennium\n\nJesus: Apocalyptic Prophet of the New Millennium is a 1999 book by leading New Testament scholar Bart D. Ehrman. In it, he argues that Jesus was an apocalyptic preacher, i.e., his main message was that the end of history was near, that God would shortly intervene to overthrow evil and establish his rule on earth, and that Jesus and his disciples all believed these end time events would occur in their lifetimes. Ehrman also analyses New Testament passages such as Jesus' supposed birth in Bethlehem of a virgin and finds them not historically credible.\n"}
{"id": "12753577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12753577", "title": "Joseph Owens (Redemptorist)", "text": "Joseph Owens (Redemptorist)\n\nReverend Joseph Owens C.Ss.R. (April 17, 1908 – October 30, 2005) was a Canadian Roman Catholic priest and a philosopher specializing in the thought of Aristotle, Aquinas, and medieval philosophy.\n\nOwens received his PhD in 1951 from the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, an affiliate of the University of Toronto, and remained at the Institute as a teacher and distinguished researcher for the rest of his career. He authored nine books and almost 150 academic papers.\n\nHe was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada and served as president of the Metaphysical Society of America (1972), the Canadian Philosophical Association, the Society for Ancient Greek Philosophy, and the American Catholic Philosophical Association (which also awarded him its Aquinas Medal).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29837364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29837364", "title": "Kenneth Frazier", "text": "Kenneth Frazier\n\nKenneth Carleton Frazier (born ) is an American business executive. He is the chairman and CEO of the pharmaceutical company Merck & Co. (known as MSD outside of North America). After joining Merck & Co. as general counsel, he directed the company's defense against litigation over the anti-inflammatory drug Vioxx. Frazier is the first black man to lead a major pharmaceutical company. He was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 2018.\n\nKenneth Frazier was born on December 17, 1954, in North Philadelphia. His father, Otis, was a janitor. Frazier has said Thurgood Marshall was one of his heroes growing up. Frazier's mother died when he was twelve years old. He attended Julia R. Masterman School and Northeast High School. After graduating at age 16, he entered Pennsylvania State University. To make extra money in college, he raised tadpoles and newts and sold them to local stores.\n\nAfter earning his B.A. from Penn State, Frazier enrolled at Harvard University to study law. He graduated in 1978 with a J.D.\n\nAfter graduating from Harvard, Frazier began his law career with Drinker Biddle & Reath in Philadelphia. In 1991, Esther F. Lardent, head of the Death Penalty Representation Project, asked Frazier to defend death row inmate James Willie \"Bo\" Cochran. Cochran had been arrested and accused of murdering an assistant manager at a Birmingham grocery store in 1976. Frazier, then a partner at Drinker Biddle, and two colleagues took the case. In 1995, after 19 years on death row, the United States Courts of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit overturned Cochran's conviction. In 1997, Cochran was retried and found not guilty. Frazier continued to represent him after leaving Drinker Biddle. During Frazier's law career, he also took four summer sabbaticals to teach trial advocacy in South Africa.\n\nAs a lawyer at Drinker Biddle, one of Frazier's clients was Merck & Co., the second-largest drug company in the United States. In 1992, he joined Merck & Co.'s public affairs division as general counsel. Frazier was named senior general counsel in 1999. As general counsel, he was credited with overseeing the company's defense against claims that the anti-inflammatory drug Vioxx had caused heart attacks and strokes. Analysts at the time estimated Merck & Co.'s liability to range from 20 to 50 billion dollars. Frazier said the case was \"the most significant challenge [he'd] ever faced.\" He chose to fight all cases in court rather than settle them all quickly. The remaining cases were settled in 2007 for $4.85 billion.\n\nIn 2006, Frazier was promoted to executive vice president in addition to his role as general counsel. He led the company's largest group, human health, from 2007 until he was named president of Merck & Co. in April 2010. On January 1, 2011, he became CEO and a member of the company's board of directors, replacing former Merck & Co. CEO Richard Clark. Frazier is the first African-American to lead a major pharmaceutical company.\n\nAs CEO, Frazier has directed the company to take financial risks in developing new treatments. In 2013, he prioritized research funding over meeting the year's earnings target. He has placed special emphasis on improving treatments for Alzheimer's disease. Frazier's father died from Alzheimer's. Frazier has said he is also motivated at Merck & Co. by a desire to improve the lives of people in developing countries.\n\nFrazier received a total compensation of $21,387,205 in 2014; $17,023,820 in 2015; and $21,781,200 in 2016. On February 26, 2017, it was reported Frazier owned 600,304 shares of Merck stock worth approximately $37,000,000. Based on stock transactions at Merck alone and his tenure at the company, his net worth is in the hundreds of millions. As of December 31, 2016, Mr. Frazier was eligible for early retirement subsidies under the Qualified Plan and SRP with a pension valued at $26,593,261. In the \"annual collaborative report\" from Equilar and The New York Times, Frazier ranked 66th in the May 2015 list of \"200 highest-paid CEOs of large publicly traded companies\" and seventh in the list of biopharmaceutical executives with the highest total compensation.\n\nIn July 2016, Frazier sold 60,000 shares of the firm's stock. The stock was sold at an average price of $64.44.\n\nUnder the leadership of Kenneth Frazier, Merck has been convicted of multiple drug patent infringements. Merck deceptively obtained the formula to Sovaldi over a conference call with Pharmasset. In March 2004, Pharmasset was willing to reveal details of its formulas on the call because it was led to believe everyone on the call would be subject to the confidentiality agreement. But the participants included Merck patent attorney Phillippe Durette, who wasn't firewalled and was in a position to turn what he heard into a potential goldmine for Merck. Durette lied about being on the conference call under oath and then Merck's legal team advised him to blame it on poor memory. In a deposition, he repeatedly denied having been on the call. He recanted at trial only after he was confronted with notes taken by a Pharmasset employee during the call, proving that he had participated. At that point, he pleaded a faulty memory. Judge Freeman didn't buy it. \"It is overwhelmingly clear...,\" she ruled, \"that Dr. Durette sought at every turn to create the false impression that Merck's conduct was aboveboard.\" She blamed Merck, which she said \"sponsored and encouraged\" his conduct, then sought to minimize its importance by attributing the fiasco to \"the failed memory of a retired employee.\" Federal Judge Beth Labson Freeman described the company's behavior as \"systematic and outrageous deception in conjunction with unethical business practices and litigation misconduct.\" That conduct included \"lying to Pharmasset, misusing Pharmasset's confidential information, breaching confidentiality and firewall agreements, and lying under oath at deposition and trial.\" \n\nIn 2017, Merck & Co said it agreed to enter into a settlement and license agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co and Ono Pharmaceutical Co Ltd to resolve all global patent-infringement litigation related to its cancer drug, Keytruda. Bristol and Ono, which co-developed the first PD-1 antibody called Opdivo, filed the suit against Merck in September 2014, alleging that its sale of Keytruda, also a PD-1 antibody, infringed their patents in markets including the United States, parts of Europe, Australia and Japan. Merck will make an initial payment of $625 million to Bristol and Japan's Ono. The company will also pay a 6.5-percent royalty rate on Keytruda sales from January 2017 to December 2023, and a 2.5-percent rate for the subsequent three years. In the first two months of 2017, sales of Keytruda in the US jumped to roughly $260 million, an 80-percent increase compared with the same period last year, according to IMS, a data provider that tracks medicine sales.\n\nIn November 2011, the Penn State Board of Trustees appointed Frazier (a trustee) to serve as chairman of a special committee investigation into the child sex abuse scandal involving former assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky and allegations of a cover up by university officials. Frazier was criticized by Harrisburg attorney William Cluck for his handling of the Sandusky scandal, particularly its decision to rely on the Freeh report, which found emails suggesting that university leaders, including head football coach Joe Paterno, knew of reports of Sandusky's sex abuse but failed to report it. At a meeting, when Cluck questioned the Freeh report, Frazier directed a fiery criticism at Cluck and Paterno defenders, saying, \"I believe that we are entitled to look at the words and contemporaneous emails and other documents that draw the conclusions that we need to draw as a university. We are not subject to the criminal beyond-a-reasonable-doubt standard. ... If you cared about that, you are one of the few people in this country that looks like you who actually believes the O.J. Simpson not guilty verdict was correct. The fact of the matter is, those documents say what they say, and no amount of hand-waving will ever change what those documents say.\" Frazier twice apologized for the outburst.\n\nFrazier is a member of the American Law Institute and serves on its council. In May 2013, he delivered the keynote speech at the ALI Annual Dinner.\n\nFrazier was a member of the President Trump's American Manufacturing Council. He resigned from the Council on August 14, 2017, following the violent 2017 Unite the Right rally in Virginia. In a statement, Frazier said that he objected to Trump's statement that \"many sides\" were responsible for violence. Frazier stated, \"America's leaders must honor our fundamental views by clearly rejecting expressions of hatred, bigotry and group supremacy, which run counter to the American ideal that all people are created equal.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19083749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19083749", "title": "Level of detail (writing)", "text": "Level of detail (writing)\n\nLevel of detail in writing, sometimes known as level of abstraction, refers to three concepts: the precision in using the right words to form phrases, clauses and sentences; the generality of statements; and the organisational strategy in which authors arrange ideas according to a common topic in the hierarchy of detail. Placing different objects or ideas in categories is a type of classification in expert writing which allows more efficient cognitive retrieval of information by placing it in context. Maintaining appropriate level of detail in any body of text is a part of ensuring that the cognitive effort required by the reader is appropriate to the general subject of the written as a whole. Authors use level of detail to maintain continuity in syntactic hierarchy in texts, such as a screenplays. Continuity in text is achieved by using transitional expressions to move from one detail, or level of detail, to another.\n\nWithin the basic writing structure of \"introducing\", \"characterising\" and \"bringing to a close\" of any proper subject description, level of detail is used in theme development during \"elaboration\", \"evaluation\" and \"adding context\" as a repertoire of retrieval strategies. Van der Pool in 1995 had found that omission of detail in text structuring is an age-related effect that differentiates mature and young writers.\n\nAlthough the general rule that the level of detail must be both sufficient and appropriate\nfor the author's audience and their subject in literature intended for experts, it is also used in primary and secondary education to assess student understanding. In general the depth of detail is gradually developed to one appropriate for the subject.\n\nThe suggested list in identifying appropriate level of detail may include\n\nPresenting the reader with specific details without first introducing it with general statements can be dangerous because it omits a qualifier, and therefore introduces elements that invite questions and create confusion.\n\nLevel of detail is often important in technical writing due to the need to differentiate between different levels of audience need for information within the organisation.\n\nSimilar to the engineering design process, writing also takes place by the author usually adopting either a top-down or a bottom-up process by identifying components of the text that become the focus subjects in the overall theme.\n\nThe content of a text is often assessed for its level of detail as \"high\", \"intermediate\" or \"low\" based on the objective of the author in addressing the needs of the audience. The highly detailed text refers to the bottom-up structuring design where \nFacts that are generally available but not used frequently (and likely to be forgotten) should be included in this ideal level of writing.\n\n"}
{"id": "3967164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3967164", "title": "Lê Quý Đôn", "text": "Lê Quý Đôn\n\nLê Quý Đôn (; 1726–1784) was an 18th-century Vietnamese poet, encyclopedist, and government official. His pseudonym was Quế-Đường. He was a native of Duyen Ha village in present-day Thái Bình Province. He is considered one of the most outstanding and prolific Vietnamese savants of the early modern period.\n\nLê was born in the province of Thái Bình, and lived in the reign of Emperor Lê Hiển Tông.\nThe period of his life was marked by a split between the Trịnh lords of the north and the Nguyễn lords of the south, followed by the Tây Sơn rebellion.\n\nIn 1760, Lê Quý Đôn went to China as an ambassador. He later served as a government official in the ministries of war, finance and public works. He also served as the rector of the National University situated in the Văn Miếu in Hanoi and as Director of the Bureau of Annals. \nIt is said that Lê was traveling with some Qing officials, and along the way they saw a Chinese poem inscribed on a stone palette. Later, one of the Qing officials, to test his merit, asked him if he could remember what was on the stone palette. Lê recited the entire poem, word for word, in Chinese. That earned him a great deal of respect from the Chinese.\n\nLê Quý Đôn was responsible for a large number of encyclopedic, historical, bibliographical, and philosophical works.\nIt is estimated that he has the largest volume of works among the old Chinese-language Vietnamese literature (about 40 series with hundreds of volumes).\n\n\nToday, one of largest technical universities in Hanoi, Le Quy Don Technical University (LeTech), and many schools in Vietnam are named after him. Most cities in Vietnam have named major streets after him.\n\nFinally, \"Lê Quý Đôn″ is also the name of a new Vietnamese sail training ship, built in 2015 by the Polish ship yard Marine Projects Ltd. on behalf of Polish Defence Holding in Gdynia. Some of its data: overall length: 65.0 m, breadth: 10.0 m, air draft: 42.0 m, sails area: 1395 m², propulsion: 880 kW, crew and cadets: 30 + 80 persons.\n"}
{"id": "2676719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2676719", "title": "M. Nasroen", "text": "M. Nasroen\n\nM. Nasroen (1907–1968) was an Indonesian scholar in the field of philosophy. He is most famous for having identified and classified Indonesian philosophy as being separate and different from Western and Eastern philosophy. Nasroen reached the peak of his philosophical career when he was chosen as an emeritus professor of philosophy at the University of Indonesia in Jakarta, one of Indonesia's largest and most respected universities.\n\nHis 1967 book, \"Falsafah Indonesia\", laid the way for Indonesian scholars to start treating \"Indonesian Philosophy\" as a separate area of study. In it, Nasroen argues that the uniqueness of Indonesian philosophy is manifested in philosophical notions, such as \"mupakat\", \"pantun-pantun\", \"Pancasila\", \"hukum adat\", \"ketuhanan\", \"gotong-royong\" (mutual aid), and \"kekeluargaan\" (\"Falsafah Indonesia\" pp.14, 24, 25, 33, and 38).\n\nNasroen is also remembered for his work on the philosophy and the customs of the \"Minangkabau\" people of Indonesia's West Sumatra province, presented in his 1957 book \"Dasar Falsafah Adat Minangkabau\". This book is still commonly cited in the fields of women's studies, such as in the writings of feminist ethnographer Peggy Reeves Sanday, as Nasroen's book was one of the first to explain the concept of matriarchy in the Minangkabau matrilineal system.\n\n"}
{"id": "382019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382019", "title": "Manuel DeLanda", "text": "Manuel DeLanda\n\nManuel DeLanda (born 1952) is a Mexican-American writer, artist and philosopher who has lived in New York since 1975. He is a lecturer in architecture at the Princeton University School of Architecture and the University of Pennsylvania School of Design, where he teaches courses on the philosophy of urban history and the dynamics of cities as historical actors with an emphasis on the importance of self-organization and material culture in the understanding of a city. He also teaches architectural theory as an adjunct professor of architecture and urban design at the Pratt Institute and serves as the Gilles Deleuze Chair and Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School. He holds a BFA from the School of Visual Arts (1979) and a PhD in media and communication from the European Graduate School (2010).\n\nDeLanda was previously a visiting professor at the University of Southern California School of Architecture, where he taught an intensive two-week course in the spring 2012 term on self-organization and urbanity; adjunct associate professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation from 1995 to 2006; and adjunct professor at Cooper Union's Irwin S. Chanin School of Architecture.\n\nAfter moving to New York, DeLanda created several experimental films between 1975 and 1982, some as part of an undergraduate coursework at the School of Visual Arts. While at SVA, DeLanda studied under video artist Joan Braderman; they were subsequently married in 1980 and collaborated on several works (including Braderman's \"Joan Does Dynasty\" [1986], DeLanda's \"Raw Nerves\" [1980] and \"Ismism\" [1979] ) before divorcing at an indeterminate point. Influenced by the No Wave movement, DeLanda's Super 8 and 16mm films also served as methodical, theory-based approaches to the form. He pulled them from circulation after the original negatives were lost; in 2011, Anthology Film Archives restored and reissued them.\n\nCited by filmmaker Nick Zedd in his Cinema of Transgression Manifesto, DeLanda associated with many of the experimental filmmakers of this New York based-movement. In 2010, he appeared in Céline Danhier's retrospective documentary \"Blank City\". Much of his oeuvre was inspired by his nascent interest in continental philosophy and critical theory; one of his best known films is \"Raw Nerves: A Lacanian Thriller\" (1980).\n\nBy the mid-1980s, DeLanda—having moved on to the non-deterministic synthesis of Baudrillardian and Deleuzian theory, command and control techniques, and materialistic concerns of complex systems and artificial life (including cellular automata) that would comprise \"Policing the Spectrum\" (1986) and \"War in the Age of Intelligent Machines\" (1992)—had largely eschewed his interests in \"post-Freudian ideas of the unconscious... as well as any interest in film theory.\"\n\nDeLanda's notable works include \"War in the Age of Intelligent Machines\" (1991), \"A Thousand Years of Nonlinear History\" (1997), \"Intensive Science and Virtual Philosophy\" (2002) and \"A New Philosophy of Society: Assemblage Theory and Social Complexity\" (2006). He has published many articles and essays and lectured extensively in Europe and in the United States. His work focuses on the theories of the French philosophers Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari on one hand, and modern science, self-organizing matter, artificial life and intelligence, economics, architecture, chaos theory, history of science, nonlinear dynamics, cellular automata on the other. His 2015 book \"Philosophical Chemistry: Genealogy of a Scientific Field\" furthers his intervention in the philosophy of science and science studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50665056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50665056", "title": "Maria Márkus", "text": "Maria Márkus\n\nMaria Márkus (born 1936) is a Polish sociologist and philosopher. She was educated in philosophy at the Lomonosov University in Moscow from 1952 to 1957 and was awarded her master's degree in Poland in 1957. She moved to Hungary in 1957 and became a research fellow at the Institute of Philosophy of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and was a founding member of the Institute of Sociology at the Academy. In 2010, a \"Festschrift\" was published in her honour.\n\nShe was a member of the “Budapest School” of Marxism, along with other philosophers and sociologists such as Ágnes Heller, György Márkus, István Mészáros, Ferenc Fehér and Mihály Vajda. The School was disbanded after the Prague Spring and many of its members forced into exile. Márkus, along with other members of the School, lost her academic position on ideological and political grounds. She moved to Australia in 1978 and worked as a Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the University of New South Wales. She has published widely on topics including on the sociology of work, industrial sociology, political sociology, the sociology of economics, stratification, philosophy and sociological theory and feminism and industry. 'The decent society' is one of her favourite themes.\n\nShe is a \"friend and intellectual ally of Agnes Heller\". Markus is married to Hungarian philosopher György Márkus and has two sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "33379610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33379610", "title": "Mary O'Brien (philosopher)", "text": "Mary O'Brien (philosopher)\n\nMary Maime O'Brien (July 8, 1926 – October 17, 1998) was a feminist political philosopher. She taught sociology and feminist social theory in Canada until her death. She was a founding member of the Feminist Party of Canada.\n\nMary was born in Glasgow, Scotland, where she experienced the depression in the 1930s. After encountering the Fabian Society she was impressed by Beatrice Webb and joined the Labour Party as a teenager. She was a keen activist in the Labour Party but found her idealism shattered by the twin events of 1956: the Suez Crisis and the Soviet invasion of Hungary. However her experience as a midwife in the industrial slums of Clydeside was to provide her with a sceptical outlook which she exhibited in her later philosophical work.\n\nShe emigrated to Canada in 1957, where O'Brien first worked as a nurse and then completed graduate work in political philosophy.\n\nO'Brien wrote \"The Politics of Reproduction\" (1981), an important book in the development of feminist political theory. Starting from a Marxist materialist position, O'Brien's purpose was to connect inextricably Marx's concept of labour to produce objects to the act of giving birth, thereby placing women central in Marxist materialism as she re-defined it. Challenging the persistent denial of women's experiences in political theorizing, O'Brien proposed the relations of reproduction as essential to understanding human social and political endeavours. O'Brien's work identified the discovery of paternity as a precursor to such patriarchal institutions as marriage and sole male rights to offspring.\n\nO'Brien's work theorizes birth, and although her arguments have at times been dismissed as essentialist, hers is rather an integration of necessary essentialism and social constructivism. She considered her main purpose in her writing and teaching to place women's experience at the centre of fundamental political discourse.\n\nO'Brien's project extended familiar themes in feminist anthropology of the 1960s and 1970s and extends into radical sociology and anthropology of the 1980s. In the 1990s, her work was eclipsed by feminist philosophers who criticized her work as reducing women's experiences to biological determinism, thereby reducing the range of female experience to a single biological necessity. Explaining and exploring the origins of patriarchy, and offering a heuristic for the analysis of reproductive processes – \"moments\" – O'Brien created a conceptual framework for understanding the reproductive process: the dialectics of reproduction. She insisted on the standpoint of women, as Marx had assumed the standpoint of the proletariat. She introduced into contemporary social and political theory the expression \"malestream\" in reference to traditional, mainstream political and philosophical Western thought.\n\nIn the last years of her life, in the last decade of the twentieth century, O'Brien wrote and spoke extensively about what she considered a historical moment of equal importance to the articulation of paternity: the development of reproductive technologies. She considered the developments of reproductive technologies to be revolutionary, capable in their implementations of re-configuring women's relationship to reproduction. Reliable, available, and safe contraception could allow women to separate sexual activity from reproduction; reproductive technologies such as in vitro fertilization and surrogate motherhood would allow women who are or who plan to be mothers to re-design their approaches to motherhood. \nO'Brien constructed the theoretical analysis that these reproductive technologies had to be assessed not only for their safety but also for the philosophical implications of their capacity to re-configure women's relationship to the labour of reproduction, in the same way \"The Politics of Reproduction\" declared the re-configuration of men's relationship to reproduction. \nThis important theoretical analysis was cut short by O'Brien's death in 1998.\n\nO'Brien left active nursing practice in 1971, but her continued analysis and writing about the politics of nursing had a profound impact on the profession, especially in Canada. She encouraged nursing professionals to take control over their working conditions and their relations to other medical practitioners, especially medical doctors. She helped to instigate a shift in how nursing professionals were educated and their resulting status in the health care field in Canada. She wrote and spoke extensively about healthcare and health care reform in Canada, with particular attention to the role and status of nurses.\n\nO'Brien's lasting contribution to feminist political theory is her analysis of the dialectical structure of reproductive consciousness. The physical labour, literally, involved in women's reproductive experiences must be accounted, both as actual material production but also, more importantly, central to a sense of connection and integration of human endeavour. O'Brien also asserted the ownership over the means of production ought to be extended to women's rights to maintain authority and control over their children.\n\n"}
{"id": "33237673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33237673", "title": "Milič Čapek", "text": "Milič Čapek\n\nMilič Čapek, (26 January 1909 – 17 November 1997) was a Czech–American philosopher. Čapek was strongly influenced by the process philosophy of Henri Bergson and to a lesser degree by Alfred North Whitehead. Much of his work was devoted to the relation of philosophy and modern physics, especially the philosophy of space and time and metaphysics.\n\nČapek was born in the municipality of Třebechovice in present-day Czech Republic (then part of Austria-Hungary).\n\nHe was married to Stephanie Čapek (born Štěpánka Řežábková), who was a school teacher in Czechoslovakia and later a housewife, and died on July 14, 1998 (aged 82), in Little Rock, Arkansas. Together they have a daughter, Dr. Stella M. Čapek from Conway, Arkansas.\n\nIn 1935 Čapek received his Ph.D. in philosophy at Charles University in Prague. Following the German occupation, he escaped from Czechoslovakia and studied at the Sorbonne in Paris, where he also directed Czech-language broadcasts back to his homeland. Ten days before the Nazi invasion, Čapek left Paris and went to America after an odyssey via Dakar, Casablanca and a Vichy concentration camp in Morocco. During the war he taught physics in the Army Specialized Training Program at the University of Iowa, the V-12 Navy College Training Program at Doan College, and at the University of Nebraska. After the war he returned to Czechoslovakia, where he taught briefly at the Palacký University of Olomouc. One month before the 1948 communist coup d'état he was fleeing once again, to take up permanent residence and citizenship in the United States.\n\nIn 1948 joined the Carleton College philosophy faculty. In 1962 he accepted a position as professor of philosophy at Boston University, where he served with distinction until his retirement in 1974. His visiting professorships included the Davis Campus of the University of California, Emory University, University of North Texas, Yale University, and, again, Carleton, as the Donald J. Cowling Distinguished Visiting Professor of Philosophy. In 1983 Čapek was honored by Carleton with a Doctor of Letters degree.\n\nČapek was the author of numerous articles in scholarly journals as well as of several books. Milič Čapek made major contributions to the understanding of the philosophical implications of relativity theory and quantum mechanics, and to the philosophy of time. He supported a dynamic view of time with real flow and genuine becoming, as opposed to the common block universe view with its static interpretation of time. Čapek stated that the reason why we think of time and space as \"space-time\" and rather than \"time-space\" is because we give priority to the spatial aspect in our effort to geometrize events and moments, or to render them \"space-like\", as Einstein said.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3013843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3013843", "title": "Natural evil", "text": "Natural evil\n\nNatural evil is evil for which “no non-divine agent can be held morally responsible for its occurrence.” By contrast, moral evil is “caused by human activity.” The existence of natural evil challenges belief in the omnibenevolence or the omnipotence of deities and the existence of deities including God.\n\nMoral evil results from a perpetrator, or one who acts intentionally and in so doing has flouted some duty or engaged in some vice. Natural evil has only victims, and is generally taken to be the result of natural processes. The \"evil\" thus identified is evil only from the perspective of those affected and who perceive it as an affliction. Examples include cancer, birth defects, tornadoes, earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, acts of God, and other phenomena which inflict suffering with apparently no accompanying mitigating good. Such phenomena inflict \"evil\" on victims with no perpetrator to blame.\n\nIn the Bible, God is portrayed as both the ultimate creator and perpetrator, since the “sun, moon and stars, celestial activity, clouds, dew, frost, hail, lightning, rain, snow, thunder, and wind are all subject to God's command.” Examples of natural evils ascribed to God follow:\n\nTraditional theism (e.g. Thomas Aquinas) distinguishes between God's will and God's permission, claiming that while God permits evil, he does not will it. This distinction is echoed by some modern open theists, e.g. Gregory A. Boyd, who writes, \"Divine goodness does not completely control or in any sense will evil.\" Aquinas partly explained this in terms of primary and secondary causality, whereby God is the primary (or transcendent) cause of the world, but not the secondary (or immanent) cause of everything that occurs in it. Such accounts explain the presence of natural evil through the story of the Fall of man, which affected not only human beings, but nature as well (Genesis 3:16–19).\n\nEspecially since the Reformation the distinction between God's will and God's permission, and between primary and secondary causality, has been disputed, notably by John Calvin. Among modern inheritors of this tradition, Mark R. Talbot ascribes evil to God: “God’s foreordination is the ultimate reason why everything comes about, including the existence of all evil persons and things and the occurrence of any evil acts or events.” Such models of God's complete foreordination and direct willing of everything that happens lead to the doctrines of double predestination and limited atonement.\n\nJean Jacques Rousseau responded to Voltaire's criticism of the optimists by pointing out that the value judgement required in order to declare the 1755 Lisbon earthquake a natural evil ignored the fact that the human endeavour of the construction and organization of the city of Lisbon was also to blame for the horrors recounted as they had contributed to the level of suffering. It was, after all, the collapsing buildings, the fires, and the close human confinement that led to much of the death.\n\nThe question of whether natural disasters such as hurricanes might be natural or moral evil is complicated by new understandings of the effects, such as global warming, of our collective actions on events that were previously considered to be out of our control. Nonetheless, even before the beginning of the Industrial Revolution (which many believe was the beginning point of global warming), natural disasters (e.g., earthquakes, volcanoes, tsunamis, flooding, fires, disease, etc.) occurred regularly, and cannot be ascribed to the actions of humans. However, human actions exacerbate the evil effects of natural disasters. The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) says human activity is a key factor that turns “extreme weather events into greater natural disasters.” For example, “deforestation and floodplain development” by humans turn high rainfall into “devastating floods and mudslides.\" When humans damage coastal reefs, remove mangroves, destroy dune systems, or clear coastal forests, \"extreme coastal events cause much more loss of life and damage.” Damage by tsunamis varied “according to the extent of reef protection and remaining mangrove coverage.” \nIn Europe, human development has “contributed to more frequent and regular floods.” \nIn earthquakes, people often suffer injury or death because of “poorly designed and constructed buildings.”\n\nIn the United States, wildfires that destroy lives and property aren't \"entirely natural.” Some fires are caused by human action and the damage inflicted is sometimes magnified by building “in remote, fire-prone areas.” Dusty conditions in the West that “can cause significant human health problems” have been shown to be “a direct result of human activity and not part of the natural system.\"\n\nIn sum, there is evidence that some \"natural\" evil results from human activity and, therefore, contains an element of moral evil.\n\nNatural evil (also non-moral or surd evil) is a term generally used in discussions of the problem of evil and theodicy that refers to states of affairs which, considered in themselves, are those that are part of the natural world, and so are independent of the intervention of a human agent. Both natural and moral evil are a challenge to religious believers. Many atheists claim that natural evil is proof that there is no God, at least not an omnipotent, omnibenevolent one, as such a being would not allow such evil to happen to his/her creation. However, the deist position states that intervention by God to prevent such actions (or any intervention) is not an attribute of God.\n"}
{"id": "5680407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5680407", "title": "Octave Hamelin", "text": "Octave Hamelin\n\nOctave Hamelin (July 22, 1856 in Montpellier – September 11, 1907 in Prades, Pyrénées-Orientales) was a French philosopher. He taught as a professor at the University of Bordeaux (1884-) and the University of Sorbonne (1905-). Hamelin was a close friend of the sociologist Émile Durkheim, with whom he shared an interest in the French philosopher Charles Renouvier. He is also known as a translator of classical Greek philosophers.\n\n"}
{"id": "4331844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4331844", "title": "Paul Boghossian", "text": "Paul Boghossian\n\nPaul Artin Boghossian (; born 1957) is an American philosopher. He is Silver professor of philosophy at New York University, where he was Chair of the Department for ten years (1994–2004). His research interests include epistemology, the philosophy of mind, and the philosophy of language. He is Director of the New York Institute of Philosophy and Distinguished Research Professor of Philosophy at the University of Birmingham.\n\nBoghossian is of Armenian ancestry.\n\nBoghossian earned his B.S. in physics at Trent University in 1976, and his Ph.D. in philosophy at Princeton University in 1987. In addition to his current position at NYU, he was a professor of philosophy at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor from 1984 until 1992, and has also been a visiting professor at Princeton University. He has previously held research fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities, Magdalen College, Oxford, the University of London, and the Australian National University. He is a fellow of the New York Institute for the Humanities. He is on the editorial board of the journals \"Philosophical Studies\" and \"Philosophers' Imprint\". In postmodern circles, Boghossian is known for his response to the Sokal hoax.\n\nBoghossian also serves as a member of the Scientific Advisory Board for the World Knowledge Dialogue Foundation.\n\nHis book \"Fear of Knowledge\" won a Choice Award as an outstanding Academic Book of 2006.\n\nIn 2012, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn his early work, Boghossian was a trenchant critic of naturalistic theories of content.\n\nMuch of his later work, including his book \"Fear of Knowledge,\" criticizes various forms of relativism, especially epistemic relativism, which claims that knowledge and reason are fundamentally cultural or subjective rather than objective.\n\nIn his article 'Blind Reasoning', Boghossian argues that we are blind to our reasons for justifying our methods of inference (the epitome of a method of inference is taken to be \"modus ponens\".) Rejecting both Simple Inferential Externalism for its inconsistency and Simple Inferential Internalism because it is difficult to accept, he opts for a third and new form of \"rational insight\". This paper, in conjunction with an ongoing correspondence between Boghossian and Crispin Wright, is part of a project to defend against epistemic relativism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "663826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=663826", "title": "Stewart Sutherland, Baron Sutherland of Houndwood", "text": "Stewart Sutherland, Baron Sutherland of Houndwood\n\nStewart Ross Sutherland, Baron Sutherland of Houndwood, (25 February 1941 – 29 January 2018) was a Scottish academic and public servant and one of Britain's most distinguished philosophers of religion. He sat as a crossbencher in the House of Lords.\n\nHe was educated at Robert Gordon's College. In 1963 he graduated from the University of Aberdeen with a first-class Master of Arts in Philosophy, and received a Bachelor of Arts in the Philosophy of Religion from Corpus Christi College, Cambridge in 1965.\n\nHe was then appointed assistant lecturer in Philosophy at the University College of North Wales, and three years later returned to Scotland as a lecturer at the University of Stirling. In Stirling, he established the Religious Studies department and recruited John Drane and the late Glyn Richards to work alongside him in this enterprise. Then in 1977 he became Professor of the History and Philosophy of Religion at King's College London, and was subsequently appointed Vice-Principal and Principal there in 1981 and 1985 respectively.\n\nIn 1990, Sutherland became Vice-Chancellor of the University of London, and was appointed Chief Inspector of Schools two years later. He succeeded this post as Principal and Vice-Chancellor of Edinburgh University, in which position he served until 2002. During his Principalship the University made very significant advances in teaching and research, and far reaching organisational change was implemented effectively and humanely. He was the Provost of Gresham College between 2002 and 2008. In 1992, he was elected to the British Academy, and in 1995 he became a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, the same year he was knighted and became President in 2002. He served on the Higher Education Funding Council for England, and the equivalent body in Hong Kong.\n\nFollowing his involvement in the establishment of the Age Concern Institute of Gerontology at King's College London, he was invited by the incoming Blair government in 1997 to chair a Royal Commission on Long-Term Care of Older People. This recommended that government (including the NHS and local authorities) should be responsible for providing free care in the spirit of the NHS Act to all people even if their illness takes the form of a chronic mental frailty. His recommendations were taken up by the devolved Scottish government, though were never implemented for England and Wales.\n\nAs a philosopher of religion, Sutherland had focused on how people continue to be morally responsible human beings in pluralist societies without the metaphysical security of traditional and potentially divisive systems of belief. Influenced by his intellectual mentor, Donald M. MacKinnon, Sutherland’s approach has brought the clarity and rigour of the Anglo-American tradition of analytic philosophy into conversation with literary and philosophical thinkers on the European continent.\n\nIn \"Atheism and the Rejection of God: Contemporary Philosophy and \"The Brothers Karamazov\"\" (1977) and \"Faith and Ambiguity\" (1984), he explored continental thinkers including Dostoevsky, Kierkegaard, Camus and Weil. His Wilde Lectures at Oxford University – published as \"God, Jesus and Belief: The Legacy of Theism\" (1984) – explored a range of intellectual, moral and existential issues in contemporary philosophical theology, developing further his argument that Christian ethical and faith traditions continue to have an enduring value at a time when former patterns of belief have broken down. He further promoted his field of study in two influential edited volumes, \"The Philosophical Frontiers of Christian Theology: Essays Presented to D. M. MacKinnon\" (with Brian\nHebblethwaite), (1982) and \"Religion, Reason and the Self\" (with T A Roberts), (1989).\n\nIn two other edited volumes, \"World Religions\" (1988), and \"The Study of Religion: Traditional and New Religions\" (with Peter Clarke), (1991), he had contributed to the increasingly significant field of religious studies in school and university curricula, while also promoting understanding and mutual respect amongst peoples of different faiths.\n\nSutherland was made a Knight Bachelor in 1995.\n\nOn 29 June 2001, he was created a life peer as Baron Sutherland of Houndwood, of Houndwood in the Scottish Borders, and was the following year elected to the presidency of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. In the introduction to the House of Lords ceremony, his Senior Supporter was The Lord Flowers and his Junior Supporter was The Lord Wilson of Tillyorn.\n\nHe was made a Knight of the Thistle in 2002, was the recipient of a number of honorary degrees, and continued to serve with various institutions. In 2004 he became a Fellow of Birkbeck, University of London. On 31 May 1996 he received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of \nTheology at Uppsala University, Sweden.\n\nIn 2005, he became a member of the editorial board of the Encyclopædia Britannica.\n\nA bronze bust of Lord Sutherland, by Vincent Butler, stands at the head of the stair to the Playfair Library in Old College, University of Edinburgh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47751845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47751845", "title": "Straw feminism", "text": "Straw feminism\n\nStraw feminism is a straw man argument whereby exaggerated or fabricated elements of feminism are used in an attempt to refute and/or derail feminist arguments. A straw feminist then is a fabricated character used by those arguing against feminism to devalue and derail feminist arguments. Straw feminism often incorporates oversimplifications, misrepresentations and stereotypes of feminism in order to easily discredit feminism as a whole. \n\n"}
{"id": "2299565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2299565", "title": "Ti (concept)", "text": "Ti (concept)\n\nTi () is the Chinese word for substance or body. In Neo-Confucianism, this concept is often associated with yong, which means \"use\" or \"function.\"\n"}
{"id": "42991729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42991729", "title": "Tomasz Kitliński", "text": "Tomasz Kitliński\n\nTomasz Kitliński (born 29 December 1965) is a Polish political philosopher, cultural and social analyst, and civic activist. He is a lecturer and trade unionist at Maria Curie-Sklodowska University and an author of books (\"Dream? Democracy!\" ), articles, petitions and letters of protest. In his research and teaching, he deals with contemporary society, culture and politics, intellectual history, literary and critical theory, art practice, religious studies and social anthropology. In his activism, he champions women's, LGBT, labour and refugee rights and participation.\n\nTomasz Kitlinski holds his M. Phil. from the University of Paris 7, where he prepared his thesis, supervised by Julia Kristeva. He conducted research under Hélène Cixous, Maria Janion and Julia Kristeva.\n\nHe was a Fulbright scholar at the New School for Social Research in New York, where he participated in the seminars of Ágnes Heller, Richard J. Bernstein and Jonathan Schell. He also conducted research and presented a paper at the Courtauld Instititue of Art, London.\n\nKitlinski is a member of Poland's Green Party.\nAt the University of Brighton, he moderated a meeting with Britain's only Green MP, Caroline Lucas. In a letter to the editor, published in the Guardian, he has written on the importance of Zygmunt Bauman’s scholarly output.\nIn 2011 he curated Transeuropa Festival in Lublin, where he organised a series of queer, feminist and Jewish events, to which he invited Irena Grudzinska-Gross, Robert Biedroń, Kazimiera Szczuka, Anna Grodzka and Robert Kuwałek.\n\nKitlinski was cited by the \"New York Times\".\n\nHe has been involved in filmmaking; Kitlinski collaborated with directors Helen Whitney, Raphael Lewandowski, Urszula Pieregonczuk, Grzegorz Linkowski and Piotr Brozek.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4820713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4820713", "title": "Valentin A. Bazhanov", "text": "Valentin A. Bazhanov\n\nValentin A. Bazhanov (born 10 January 1953 in Kazan, Russia) is a professor, chairperson of Philosophy Department at Ulyanovsk State University, Russia.\n\nHe received his Kandidature (PhD) from Leningrad University (1989), and was awarded the degree of Dr. Sci. in Philosophy from Institute of Philosophy of the USSR Academy of Sciences (Moscow) in 1988. He has been on the faculty of Philosophy at Kazan University since 1979 until 1993. He has been the Senior Research member at the Institute of Philosophy (Moscow) in 1987–88. Since 1993 he is at Ulyanovsk branch of Moscow State University (Ulyanovsk-Simbirsk University), Department of Philosophy, The Dean of the Humanities (1993 – October, 1995).\n\nThe scope of his research includes history and philosophy of science, especially history of logic in Russia and the USSR, philosophy of logic and philosophy of mathematics, epistemology, and political philosophy.\n\nHe is a winner of USSR Academy of Sciences prize for young researchers (1985), Kazan University First prize (1989), International Science Foundation winner (1994), British Academy Fellow (1998).\n\nIn 2002 V.A. Bazhanov was elected corresponding member and in 2009 as full member of Academie Internationale de Philosophie des Sciences in Brussels.\n\nDOI 10.1007/978-3-319-66162-9. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1625778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625778", "title": "Value pluralism", "text": "Value pluralism\n\nIn ethics, value pluralism (also known as ethical pluralism or moral pluralism) is the idea that there are several values which may be equally correct and fundamental, and yet in conflict with each other. In addition, value-pluralism postulates that in many cases, such incompatible values may be incommensurable, in the sense that there is no objective ordering of them in terms of importance. Value pluralism is opposed to \"value monism\".\n\nValue-pluralism is a theory in metaethics, rather than a theory of normative ethics, or a set of values in itself. Oxford philosopher and historian of ideas Isaiah Berlin is credited with being the first to popularize a substantial work describing the theory of objective value-pluralism, bringing it to the attention of academia (cf. the Isaiah Berlin Virtual Library). The related idea that fundamental values can and, in some cases, do conflict with each other is prominent in the thought of Max Weber, captured in his notion of \"polytheism\".\n\nValue-pluralism is an alternative to both moral relativism and moral absolutism (which Berlin called \"monism\"). An example of value-pluralism is the idea that the moral life of a nun is incompatible with that of a mother, yet there is no purely rational measure of which is preferable. Hence, moral decisions often require radical preferences with no rational calculus to determine which alternative is to be selected.\n\nValue-pluralism differs from value-relativism in that pluralism accepts limits to differences, such as when vital human needs are violated.\n\nIf values can be compared with virtues or duties then reference might also be made to the arguments of classical philosophy. Kant, for example, referred to \"a conflict of duties\" and the subject can be traced back to Plato's \"Statesman\" where he wrote that although the aim may be \"to promote not a part of virtue but the whole\", it is often the case that the different parts of virtue \"may be at war with one another\".\n\nIsaiah Berlin suggested that James Fitzjames Stephen, rather than himself, deserved credit for fathering value-pluralism. Stephen had observed: \"There are innumerable differences which obviously add to the interest of life, and without which it would be unendurably dull. Again, there are differences which can neither be left unsettled nor be settled without a struggle, and a real one, but in regard to which the struggle is rather between inconsistent forms of good than between good and evil. In cases of this sort no one need see an occasion for anything more than a good-tempered trial of strength and skill, except those narrow-minded fanatics whose minds are incapable of taking in more than one idea at a time, or of having a taste for more things than one, which one thing is generally a trifle. There is no surer mark of a poor, contemptible, cowardly character than the inability to conduct disputes of this sort with fairness, temper, humanity, goodwill to antagonists, and a determination to accept a fair defeat in good part and to make the best of it.\"\n\nWilliam James, influenced by Fitzjames Stephen, endorsed value-pluralism in an essay on \"The Moral Philosopher and the Moral Life\", which he first delivered as a lecture in 1891. He wrote that none \"of the measures [of goodness] that have been actually proposed has, however, given general satisfaction ... The various ideals have no common character apart from the fact that they are ideals. No single abstract principle can be so used as to yield to the philosopher anything like a scientifically accurate and genuinely useful casuistic scale.\"\n\nJoseph Raz and many others have done further work clarifying and defending value-pluralism. For instance, political philosopher William Galston, former policy advisor to President Bill Clinton, has defended a Berlinian approach to value pluralism in books like \"Liberal Pluralism.\"\n\nSocial psychologist Philip E. Tetlock, studies and identifies with value pluralism.\n\nThe philosopher Charles Blattberg, who was Berlin's student, has advanced an important critique of Berlin's value-pluralism. Blattberg focuses on value-pluralism's applications to Marx, the Russian intelligentsia, Judaism, and Berlin's early political thought, as well as Berlin's conceptions of liberty, the Enlightenment versus the Counter-Enlightenment, and history.\n\nAnother notable critic of value-pluralism in recent times is Ronald Dworkin, the second most-cited American legal scholar, who attempts to forge a liberal theory of equality from a monist starting-point, citing the failure of value-pluralism to adequately address the \"Equality of what?\" debate.\n\nAlan Brown suggests that Berlin ignores the fact that values are indeed commensurable as they can be compared by their varying contributions towards the human good. Regarding the ends of freedom, equality, efficiency, creativity, etc., Brown maintains that none of these are ends in themselves but are valued for their consequences. Brown concludes that Berlin has failed to show that the problem of conflicting values is insoluble in principle. The deliberative democrat Robert Talisse has published several articles criticizing the pluralism of Isaiah Berlin, William Galston, Richard Flathman, and John Gray, alleging informal logic and internal epistemological contradictions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24059714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24059714", "title": "Willigis Jäger", "text": "Willigis Jäger\n\nWilligis Jäger (born 7 March 1925 in Hösbach) is a German Benedictine monk, mystic, and Zen master, who trained and taught in the Sanbo Kyodan tradition (being given the Japanese name Koun-ken) until 2009, and then continued his own sangha independently.\n\n\n\n"}
