{"id": "28067175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28067175", "title": "1938 renaming of East Prussian placenames", "text": "1938 renaming of East Prussian placenames\n\nMore than 1,500 East Prussian places were ordered to be renamed by 16 July 1938, following a decree issued by \"Gauleiter\" and \"Oberpräsident\" Erich Koch and initiated by Adolf Hitler. This resulted in the elimination, Germanization, or simplification of a number of Old Prussian names, as well as those Polish or Lithuanian origin. Other areas of the Third Reich were also affected.\n\nPlacenames in Masuria were occasionally renamed prior to 1938, and indeed even before the Nazi era. In the district of Lötzen 47 percent of all villages had already been renamed in the Weimar Republic and another 36 percent after 1933. A systematic renaming campaign was prepared after Koch issued the corresponding order on 25 August 1937. Following this order, the Prussian Ministry of Science, Education and People's Education (\"Ministerium für Wissenschaft, Erziehung und Volksbildung\") set up an expert commission led by Mr Harmjanz (the \"Ministerialrat\" or ministerial adviser). Members included Mr Meyer (a Slavicist from Königsberg), Mr Ziesemer (a Germanist from Königsberg), Mr Falkenhayn (a lecturer, expert in Lithuanian and Old Prussian names) and Max Hein (the director of the Königsberg state archives and expert in names of the Teutonic Order state). Affected were names of villages, water bodies, forests and cadastral districts. In some counties up to 70% of the placenames had been changed by 16 July 1938.\n\nAfter World War II the local populace fled or was expelled. The modern Polish names were determined by the Commission for the Determination of Place Names.The names invented in 1938 remain in official use in Germany.\n\nA similar Germanization of place names was carried out in other regions of the Third Reich, especially in Silesia. There, 1088 place names in the Oppeln (Opole) region were changed in 1936, also 359 in the Breslau (Wroclaw) area and 178 in the Liegnitz (Legnica) area between 1937 and 1938. In the portion of Upper Silesia which after World War I had become part of the Second Polish Republic, most places had two locally used names, a German one and a Polish one, and after 1922, Polish authorities made the Polish variants the \"official\" names.\n\nDuring World War II, renaming occurred primarily in occupied/annexed territories, because the Nazi government felt that \"foreign language names for places constitute a national threat and may lead to mistaken world opinion in regard to their nationality\". Areas affected included Polish areas annexed by Nazi Germany, e.g. Upper Silesia and the area near Poznań. and Alsace, as well as Czechoslovakia .\n"}
{"id": "19976081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19976081", "title": "Azot (region)", "text": "Azot (region)\n\nAzot () is a historical and geographic region in the Republic of Macedonia located in the south-west of the city of Veles in the valley of Babuna mountain.\n"}
{"id": "48612371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48612371", "title": "Bush–Herbert Building", "text": "Bush–Herbert Building\n\nThe Bush–Herbert Building is a historic building in Nashville, Tennessee, USA. It was home to the Bush Brick Company (founded in 1867 by Confederate veteran Major W.G. Bush in 1867) and T. L. Herbert and Sons, from 1911 to 1961. The family business made bricks used for the construction of many buildings on the campus of Vanderbilt University as well as the Maxwell House Hotel, the Downtown Presbyterian Church, the Tulip Street Methodist Church, etc. The building has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places since March 25, 1982.\n"}
{"id": "17964174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17964174", "title": "Carnarvon Basin", "text": "Carnarvon Basin\n\nThe Carnarvon Basin is a geological basin located in the north west of Western Australia. This is the main geological feature that makes up the North West Shelf. The onshore part of the Carnarvon Basin covers about 115,000 km² and the offshore part covers approximately 535,000 km² with water depths up to 3,500 metres. It is separated into two major areas - the Northern Carnarvon Basin, and the Southern Carnarvon Basin.\n\nThe Northern Carnarvon Basin includes the Exmouth Plateau, Wombat Plateau (on the northern part of the Exmouth Plateau), Investigator Sub-basin, Rankin Platform, Exmouth Sub-basin, Barrow Sub-basin, Dampier Sub-basin, Beagle Sub-basin, Enderby Terrace, Peedamullah Shelf and the Lambert Shelf.\n\nThe main sub-basins for petroleum exploration in the basin have been Dampier, Exmouth and Barrow.\n\nThe Southern basin consists of the Gascoyne, Merlinleigh, Bidgemia and Byro Sub-basins and Bernier Platform and is flanked to the east by the Archaean Pilbara Block. \n\nThe Gnargoo structure, which has remarkable similarities to Woodleigh crater, is a proposed 75 km impact crater on the Gascoyne Platform, Southern Carnarvon Basin with an estimated age of 100-300 Ma.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216216", "title": "Conservation biology", "text": "Conservation biology\n\nConservation biology is the management of nature and of Earth's biodiversity with the aim of protecting species, their habitats, and ecosystems from excessive rates of extinction and the erosion of biotic interactions. It is an interdisciplinary subject drawing on natural and social sciences, and the practice of natural resource management.\n\nThe conservation ethic is based on the findings of conservation biology.\n\nThe term conservation biology and its conception as a new field originated with the convening of \"The First International Conference on Research in Conservation Biology\" held at the University of California, San Diego in La Jolla, California in 1978 led by American biologists Bruce A. Wilcox and Michael E. Soulé with a group of leading university and zoo researchers and conservationists including Kurt Benirschke, Sir Otto Frankel, Thomas Lovejoy, and Jared Diamond. The meeting was prompted by the concern over tropical deforestation, disappearing species, eroding genetic diversity within species. The conference and proceedings that resulted sought to initiate the bridging of a gap between theory in ecology and evolutionary genetics on the one hand and conservation policy and practice on the other. Conservation biology and the concept of biological diversity (biodiversity) emerged together, helping crystallize the modern era of conservation science and policy. The inherent multidisciplinary basis for conservation biology has led to new subdisciplines including conservation social science, conservation behavior and conservation physiology. It stimulated further development of conservation genetics which Otto Frankel had originated first but is now often considered a subdiscipline as well.\n\nThe rapid decline of established biological systems around the world means that conservation biology is often referred to as a \"Discipline with a deadline\". Conservation biology is tied closely to ecology in researching the population ecology (dispersal, migration, demographics, effective population size, inbreeding depression, and minimum population viability) of rare or endangered species. Conservation biology is concerned with phenomena that affect the maintenance, loss, and restoration of biodiversity and the science of sustaining evolutionary processes that engender genetic, population, species, and ecosystem diversity. The concern stems from estimates suggesting that up to 50% of all species on the planet will disappear within the next 50 years, which has contributed to poverty, starvation, and will reset the course of evolution on this planet.\n\nConservation biologists research and educate on the trends and process of biodiversity loss, species extinctions, and the negative effect these are having on our capabilities to sustain the well-being of human society. Conservation biologists work in the field and office, in government, universities, non-profit organizations and industry. The topics of their research are diverse, because this is an interdisciplinary network with professional alliances in the biological as well as social sciences. Those dedicated to the cause and profession advocate for a global response to the current biodiversity crisis based on morals, ethics, and scientific reason. Organizations and citizens are responding to the biodiversity crisis through conservation action plans that direct research, monitoring, and education programs that engage concerns at local through global scales.\n\nConscious efforts to conserve and protect \"global\" biodiversity are a recent phenomenon. Natural resource conservation, however, has a history that extends prior to the age of conservation. Resource ethics grew out of necessity through direct relations with nature. Regulation or communal restraint became necessary to prevent selfish motives from taking more than could be locally sustained, therefore compromising the long-term supply for the rest of the community. This social dilemma with respect to natural resource management is often called the \"Tragedy of the Commons\".\n\nFrom this principle, conservation biologists can trace communal resource based ethics throughout cultures as a solution to communal resource conflict. For example, the Alaskan Tlingit peoples and the Haida of the Pacific Northwest had resource boundaries, rules, and restrictions among clans with respect to the fishing of sockeye salmon. These rules were guided by clan elders who knew lifelong details of each river and stream they managed. There are numerous examples in history where cultures have followed rules, rituals, and organized practice with respect to communal natural resource management.\n\nThe Mauryan emperor Ashoka around 250 B.C. issued edicts restricting the slaughter of animals and certain kinds of birds, as well as opened veterinary clinics.\n\nConservation ethics are also found in early religious and philosophical writings. There are examples in the Tao, Shinto, Hindu, Islamic and Buddhist traditions. In Greek philosophy, Plato lamented about pasture land degradation: \"What is left now is, so to say, the skeleton of a body wasted by disease; the rich, soft soil has been carried off and only the bare framework of the district left.\" In the bible, through Moses, God commanded to let the land rest from cultivation every seventh year. Before the 18th century, however, much of European culture considered it a pagan view to admire nature. Wilderness was denigrated while agricultural development was praised. However, as early as AD 680 a wildlife sanctuary was founded on the Farne Islands by St Cuthbert in response to his religious beliefs.\n\nNatural history was a major preoccupation in the 18th century, with grand expeditions and the opening of popular public displays in Europe and North America. By 1900 there were 150 natural history museums in Germany, 250 in Great Britain, 250 in the United States, and 300 in France. Preservationist or conservationist sentiments are a development of the late 18th to early 20th centuries.\n\nBefore Charles Darwin set sail on HMS \"Beagle\", most people in the world, including Darwin, believed in special creation and that all species were unchanged. George-Louis Leclerc was one of the first naturalist that questioned this belief. He proposed in his 44 volume natural history book that species evolve due to environmental influences. Erasmus Darwin was also a naturalist who also suggested that species evolved. Erasmus Darwin noted that some species have vestigial structures which are anatomical structures that have no apparent function in the species currently but would have been useful for the species' ancestors. The thinking of these early 18th century naturalist helped to change the mindset and thinking of the early 19th century naturalist.\n\nBy the early 19th century biogeography was ignited through the efforts of Alexander von Humboldt, Charles Lyell and Charles Darwin. The 19th-century fascination with natural history engendered a fervor to be the first to collect rare specimens with the goal of doing so before they became extinct by other such collectors. Although the work of many 18th and 19th century naturalists were to inspire nature enthusiasts and conservation organizations, their writings, by modern standards, showed insensitivity towards conservation as they would kill hundreds of specimens for their collections.\n\nThe modern roots of conservation biology can be found in the late 18th-century Enlightenment period particularly in England and Scotland. A number of thinkers, among them notably Lord Monboddo, described the importance of \"preserving nature\"; much of this early emphasis had its origins in Christian theology.\n\nScientific conservation principles were first practically applied to the forests of British India. The conservation ethic that began to evolve included three core principles: that human activity damaged the environment, that there was a civic duty to maintain the environment for future generations, and that scientific, empirically based methods should be applied to ensure this duty was carried out. Sir James Ranald Martin was prominent in promoting this ideology, publishing many medico-topographical reports that demonstrated the scale of damage wrought through large-scale deforestation and desiccation, and lobbying extensively for the institutionalization of forest conservation activities in British India through the establishment of Forest Departments.\n\nThe Madras Board of Revenue started local conservation efforts in 1842, headed by Alexander Gibson, a professional botanist who systematically adopted a forest conservation program based on scientific principles. This was the first case of state conservation management of forests in the world. Governor-General Lord Dalhousie introduced the first permanent and large-scale forest conservation program in the world in 1855, a model that soon spread to other colonies, as well the United States, where Yellowstone National Park was opened in 1872 as the world's first national park.\n\nThe term \"conservation\" came into widespread use in the late 19th century and referred to the management, mainly for economic reasons, of such natural resources as timber, fish, game, topsoil, pastureland, and minerals. In addition it referred to the preservation of forests (forestry), wildlife (wildlife refuge), parkland, wilderness, and watersheds. This period also saw the passage of the first conservation legislation and the establishment of the first nature conservation societies. The Sea Birds Preservation Act of 1869 was passed in Britain as the first nature protection law in the world after extensive lobbying from the Association for the Protection of Seabirds and the respected ornithologist Alfred Newton. Newton was also instrumental in the passage of the first Game laws from 1872, which protected animals during their breeding season so as to prevent the stock from being brought close to extinction.\n\nOne of the first conservation societies was the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, founded in 1889 in Manchester as a protest group campaigning against the use of great crested grebe and kittiwake skins and feathers in fur clothing. Originally known as \"the Plumage League\", the group gained popularity and eventually amalgamated with the Fur and Feather League in Croydon, and formed the RSPB. The National Trust formed in 1895 with the manifesto to \"...promote the permanent preservation, for the benefit of the nation, of lands, ...to preserve (so far practicable) their natural aspect.\"\n\nIn the United States, the Forest Reserve Act of 1891 gave the President power to set aside forest reserves from the land in the public domain. John Muir founded the Sierra Club in 1892, and the New York Zoological Society was set up in 1895. A series of national forests and preserves were established by Theodore Roosevelt from 1901 to 1909. The 1916 National Parks Act, included a 'use without impairment' clause, sought by John Muir, which eventually resulted in the removal of a proposal to build a dam in Dinosaur National Monument in 1959.\n\nIn the 20th century, Canadian civil servants, including Charles Gordon Hewitt and James Harkin spearheaded the movement toward wildlife conservation.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, efforts arose to target individual species for conservation, notably efforts in big cat conservation in South America led by the New York Zoological Society. In the early 20th century the New York Zoological Society was instrumental in developing concepts of establishing preserves for particular species and conducting the necessary conservation studies to determine the suitability of locations that are most appropriate as conservation priorities; the work of Henry Fairfield Osborn Jr., Carl E. Akeley, Archie Carr and his son Archie Carr III is notable in this era. Akeley for example, having led expeditions to the Virunga Mountains and observed the mountain gorilla in the wild, became convinced that the species and the area were conservation priorities. He was instrumental in persuading Albert I of Belgium to act in defense of the mountain gorilla and establish Albert National Park (since renamed Virunga National Park) in what is now Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nBy the 1970s, led primarily by work in the United States under the Endangered Species Act along with the Species at Risk Act (SARA) of Canada, Biodiversity Action Plans developed in Australia, Sweden, the United Kingdom, hundreds of species specific protection plans ensued. Notably the United Nations acted to conserve sites of outstanding cultural or natural importance to the common heritage of mankind. The programme was adopted by the General Conference of UNESCO in 1972. As of 2006, a total of 830 sites are listed: 644 cultural, 162 natural. The first country to pursue aggressive biological conservation through national legislation was the United States, which passed back to back legislation in the Endangered Species Act (1966) and National Environmental Policy Act (1970), which together injected major funding and protection measures to large-scale habitat protection and threatened species research. Other conservation developments, however, have taken hold throughout the world. India, for example, passed the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972.\n\nIn 1980, a significant development was the emergence of the urban conservation movement. A local organization was established in Birmingham, UK, a development followed in rapid succession in cities across the UK, then overseas. Although perceived as a grassroots movement, its early development was driven by academic research into urban wildlife. Initially perceived as radical, the movement's view of conservation being inextricably linked with other human activity has now become mainstream in conservation thought. Considerable research effort is now directed at urban conservation biology. The Society for Conservation Biology originated in 1985.\n\nBy 1992, most of the countries of the world had become committed to the principles of conservation of biological diversity with the Convention on Biological Diversity; subsequently many countries began programmes of Biodiversity Action Plans to identify and conserve threatened species within their borders, as well as protect associated habitats. The late 1990s saw increasing professionalism in the sector, with the maturing of organisations such as the Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management and the Society for the Environment.\n\nSince 2000, the concept of landscape scale conservation has risen to prominence, with less emphasis being given to single-species or even single-habitat focused actions. Instead an ecosystem approach is advocated by most mainstream conservationists, although concerns have been expressed by those working to protect some high-profile species.\n\nEcology has clarified the workings of the biosphere; i.e., the complex interrelationships among humans, other species, and the physical environment. The burgeoning human population and associated agriculture, industry, and the ensuing pollution, have demonstrated how easily ecological relationships can be disrupted.\n\nExtinction rates are measured in a variety of ways. Conservation biologists measure and apply statistical measures of fossil records, rates of habitat loss, and a multitude of other variables such as loss of biodiversity as a function of the rate of habitat loss and site occupancy to obtain such estimates. \"The Theory of Island Biogeography\" is possibly the most significant contribution toward the scientific understanding of both the process and how to measure the rate of species extinction. The current background extinction rate is estimated to be one species every few years.\n\nThe measure of ongoing species loss is made more complex by the fact that most of the Earth's species have not been described or evaluated. Estimates vary greatly on how many species actually exist (estimated range: 3,600,000-111,700,000) to how many have received a species binomial (estimated range: 1.5-8 million). Less than 1% of all species that have been described beyond simply noting its existence. From these figures, the IUCN reports that 23% of vertebrates, 5% of invertebrates and 70% of plants that have been evaluated are designated as endangered or threatened. Better knowledge is being constructed by The Plant List for actual numbers of species.\n\nSystematic conservation planning is an effective way to seek and identify efficient and effective types of reserve design to capture or sustain the highest priority biodiversity values and to work with communities in support of local ecosystems. Margules and Pressey identify six interlinked stages in the systematic planning approach:\n\n\nConservation biologists regularly prepare detailed conservation plans for grant proposals or to effectively coordinate their plan of action and to identify best management practices (e.g.). Systematic strategies generally employ the services of Geographic Information Systems to assist in the decision making process.\n\nConservation physiology was defined by Steven J. Cooke and colleagues as: 'An integrative scientific discipline applying physiological concepts, tools, and knowledge to characterizing biological diversity and its ecological implications; understanding and predicting how organisms, populations, and ecosystems respond to environmental change and stressors; and solving conservation problems across the broad range of taxa (i.e. including microbes, plants, and animals). Physiology is considered in the broadest possible terms to include functional and mechanistic responses at all scales, and conservation includes the development and refinement of strategies to rebuild populations, restore ecosystems, inform conservation policy, generate decision-support tools, and manage natural resources.' Conservation physiology is particularly relevant to practitioners in that it has the potential to generate cause-and-effect relationships and reveal the factors that contribute to population declines.\n\nThe Society for Conservation Biology is a global community of conservation professionals dedicated to advancing the science and practice of conserving biodiversity. Conservation biology as a discipline reaches beyond biology, into subjects such as philosophy, law, economics, humanities, arts, anthropology, and education. Within biology, conservation genetics and evolution are immense fields unto themselves, but these disciplines are of prime importance to the practice and profession of conservation biology.\n\nIs conservation biology an objective science when biologists advocate for an inherent value in nature? Do conservationists introduce bias when they support policies using qualitative description, such as habitat \"degradation\", or \"healthy\" ecosystems? As all scientists hold values, so do conservation biologists. Conservation biologists advocate for reasoned and sensible management of natural resources and do so with a disclosed combination of science, reason, logic, and values in their conservation management plans. This sort of advocacy is similar to the medical profession advocating for healthy lifestyle options, both are beneficial to human well-being yet remain scientific in their approach.\n\nThere is a movement in conservation biology suggesting a new form of leadership is needed to mobilize conservation biology into a more effective discipline that is able to communicate the full scope of the problem to society at large. The movement proposes an adaptive leadership approach that parallels an adaptive management approach. The concept is based on a new philosophy or leadership theory steering away from historical notions of power, authority, and dominance. Adaptive conservation leadership is reflective and more equitable as it applies to any member of society who can mobilize others toward meaningful change using communication techniques that are inspiring, purposeful, and collegial. Adaptive conservation leadership and mentoring programs are being implemented by conservation biologists through organizations such as the Aldo Leopold Leadership Program.\n\nConservation may be classified as either in-situ conservation, which is protecting an endangered species in its natural habitat, or ex-situ conservation, which occurs outside the natural habitat. In-situ conservation involves protecting or restoring the habitat. Ex-situ conservation, on the other hand, involves protection outside of an organism's natural habitat, such as on reservations or in gene banks, in circumstances where viable populations may not be present in the natural habitat.\n\nAlso, non-interference may be used, which is termed a preservationist method. Preservationists advocate for giving areas of nature and species a protected existence that halts interference from the humans. In this regard, conservationists differ from preservationists in the social dimension, as conservation biology engages society and seeks equitable solutions for both society and ecosystems. Some preservationists emphasize the potential of biodiversity in a world without humans.\n\nConservation biologists are interdisciplinary researchers that practice ethics in the biological and social sciences. Chan states that conservationists must advocate for biodiversity and can do so in a scientifically ethical manner by not promoting simultaneous advocacy against other competing values.\n\nA conservationist may be inspired by the \"resource conservation ethic\", which seeks to identify what measures will deliver \"the greatest good for the greatest number of people for the longest time.\" In contrast, some conservation biologists argue that nature has an intrinsic value that is independent of anthropocentric usefulness or utilitarianism. Intrinsic value advocates that a gene, or species, be valued because they have a utility for the ecosystems they sustain. Aldo Leopold was a classical thinker and writer on such conservation ethics whose philosophy, ethics and writings are still valued and revisited by modern conservation biologists.\n\nThe International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has organized a global assortment of scientists and research stations across the planet to monitor the changing state of nature in an effort to tackle the extinction crisis. The IUCN provides annual updates on the status of species conservation through its Red List. The IUCN Red List serves as an international conservation tool to identify those species most in need of conservation attention and by providing a global index on the status of biodiversity. More than the dramatic rates of species loss, however, conservation scientists note that the sixth mass extinction is a biodiversity crisis requiring far more action than a priority focus on rare, endemic or endangered species. Concerns for biodiversity loss covers a broader conservation mandate that looks at ecological processes, such as migration, and a holistic examination of biodiversity at levels beyond the species, including genetic, population and ecosystem diversity. Extensive, systematic, and rapid rates of biodiversity loss threatens the sustained well-being of humanity by limiting supply of ecosystem services that are otherwise regenerated by the complex and evolving holistic network of genetic and ecosystem diversity. While the conservation status of species is employed extensively in conservation management, some scientists highlight that it is the common species that are the primary source of exploitation and habitat alteration by humanity. Moreover, common species are often undervalued despite their role as the primary source of ecosystem services.\n\nWhile most in the community of conservation science \"stress the importance\" of sustaining biodiversity, there is debate on how to prioritize genes, species, or ecosystems, which are all components of biodiversity (e.g. Bowen, 1999). While the predominant approach to date has been to focus efforts on endangered species by conserving \"biodiversity hotspots\", some scientists (e.g) and conservation organizations, such as the Nature Conservancy, argue that it is more cost-effective, logical, and socially relevant to invest in \"biodiversity coldspots\". The costs of discovering, naming, and mapping out the distribution of every species, they argue, is an ill-advised conservation venture. They reason it is better to understand the significance of the ecological roles of species.\n\nBiodiversity hotspots and coldspots are a way of recognizing that the spatial concentration of genes, species, and ecosystems is not uniformly distributed on the Earth's surface. For example, \"[...] 44% of all species of vascular plants and 35% of all species in four vertebrate groups are confined to 25 hotspots comprising only 1.4% of the land surface of the Earth.\"\n\nThose arguing in favor of setting priorities for coldspots point out that there are other measures to consider beyond biodiversity. They point out that emphasizing hotspots downplays the importance of the social and ecological connections to vast areas of the Earth's ecosystems where biomass, not biodiversity, reigns supreme. It is estimated that 36% of the Earth's surface, encompassing 38.9% of the worlds vertebrates, lacks the endemic species to qualify as biodiversity hotspot. Moreover, measures show that maximizing protections for biodiversity does not capture ecosystem services any better than targeting randomly chosen regions. Population level biodiversity (i.e. coldspots) are disappearing at a rate that is ten times that at the species level. The level of importance in addressing biomass versus endemism as a concern for conservation biology is highlighted in literature measuring the level of threat to global ecosystem carbon stocks that do not necessarily reside in areas of endemism. A hotspot priority approach would not invest so heavily in places such as steppes, the Serengeti, the Arctic, or taiga. These areas contribute a great abundance of population (not species) level biodiversity and ecosystem services, including cultural value and planetary nutrient cycling.\n\nThose in favor of the hotspot approach point out that species are irreplaceable components of the global ecosystem, they are concentrated in places that are most threatened, and should therefore receive maximal strategic protections. The IUCN Red List categories, which appear on Wikipedia species articles, is an example of the hotspot conservation approach in action; species that are not rare or endemic are listed the least concern and their Wikipedia articles tend to be ranked low on the importance scale. This is a hotspot approach because the priority is set to target species level concerns over population level or biomass. Species richness and genetic biodiversity contributes to and engenders ecosystem stability, ecosystem processes, evolutionary adaptability, and biomass. Both sides agree, however, that conserving biodiversity is necessary to reduce the extinction rate and identify an inherent value in nature; the debate hinges on how to prioritize limited conservation resources in the most cost-effective way.\n\nConservation biologists have started to collaborate with leading global economists to determine how to measure the wealth and services of nature and to make these values apparent in global market transactions. This system of accounting is called \"natural capital\" and would, for example, register the value of an ecosystem before it is cleared to make way for development. The WWF publishes its \"Living Planet Report\" and provides a global index of biodiversity by monitoring approximately 5,000 populations in 1,686 species of vertebrate (mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, and amphibians) and report on the trends in much the same way that the stock market is tracked.\n\nThis method of measuring the global economic benefit of nature has been endorsed by the G8+5 leaders and the European Commission. Nature sustains many ecosystem services that benefit humanity. Many of the Earth's ecosystem services are public goods without a market and therefore no price or value. When the \"stock market\" registers a financial crisis, traders on Wall Street are not in the business of trading stocks for much of the planet's living natural capital stored in ecosystems. There is no natural stock market with investment portfolios into sea horses, amphibians, insects, and other creatures that provide a sustainable supply of ecosystem services that are valuable to society. The ecological footprint of society has exceeded the bio-regenerative capacity limits of the planet's ecosystems by about 30 percent, which is the same percentage of vertebrate populations that have registered decline from 1970 through 2005.\n\nThe inherent natural economy plays an essential role in sustaining humanity, including the regulation of global atmospheric chemistry, pollinating crops, pest control, cycling soil nutrients, purifying our water supply, supplying medicines and health benefits, and unquantifiable quality of life improvements. There is a relationship, a correlation, between markets and natural capital, and social income inequity and biodiversity loss. This means that there are greater rates of biodiversity loss in places where the inequity of wealth is greatest\n\nAlthough a direct market comparison of natural capital is likely insufficient in terms of human value, one measure of ecosystem services suggests the contribution amounts to trillions of dollars yearly. For example, one segment of North American forests has been assigned an annual value of 250 billion dollars; as another example, honey-bee pollination is estimated to provide between 10 and 18 billion dollars of value yearly. The value of ecosystem services on one New Zealand island has been imputed to be as great as the GDP of that region. This planetary wealth is being lost at an incredible rate as the demands of human society is exceeding the bio-regenerative capacity of the Earth. While biodiversity and ecosystems are resilient, the danger of losing them is that humans cannot recreate many ecosystem functions through technological innovation.\n\nSome species, called a \"keystone species\" form a central supporting hub unique to their ecosystem. The loss of such a species results in a collapse in ecosystem function, as well as the loss of coexisting species. Keystone species are usually predators due to their ability to control the population of prey in their ecosystem. The importance of a keystone species was shown by the extinction of the Steller's sea cow (\"Hydrodamalis gigas\") through its interaction with sea otters, sea urchins, and kelp. Kelp beds grow and form nurseries in shallow waters to shelter creatures that support the food chain. Sea urchins feed on kelp, while sea otters feed on sea urchins. With the rapid decline of sea otters due to overhunting, sea urchin populations grazed unrestricted on the kelp beds and the ecosystem collapsed. Left unchecked, the urchins destroyed the shallow water kelp communities that supported the Steller's sea cow's diet and hastened their demise. The sea otter was thought to be a keystone species because the coexistence of many ecological associates in the kelp beds relied upon otters for their survival. However this was later questioned by Turvey and Risley, who showed that hunting alone would have driven the Steller's sea cow extinct.\n\nAn \"indicator species\" has a narrow set of ecological requirements, therefore they become useful targets for observing the health of an ecosystem. Some animals, such as amphibians with their semi-permeable skin and linkages to wetlands, have an acute sensitivity to environmental harm and thus may serve as a \"miner's canary\". Indicator species are monitored in an effort to capture environmental degradation through pollution or some other link to proximate human activities. Monitoring an indicator species is a measure to determine if there is a significant environmental impact that can serve to advise or modify practice, such as through different forest silviculture treatments and management scenarios, or to measure the degree of harm that a pesticide may impart on the health of an ecosystem.\n\nGovernment regulators, consultants, or NGOs regularly monitor indicator species, however, there are limitations coupled with many practical considerations that must be followed for the approach to be effective. It is generally recommended that multiple indicators (genes, populations, species, communities, and landscape) be monitored for effective conservation measurement that prevents harm to the complex, and often unpredictable, response from ecosystem dynamics (Noss, 1997).\n\nAn example of an \"umbrella species\" is the monarch butterfly, because of its lengthy migrations and aesthetic value. The monarch migrates across North America, covering multiple ecosystems and so requires a large area to exist. Any protections afforded to the monarch butterfly will at the same time umbrella many other species and habitats. An umbrella species is often used as \"flagship species\", which are species, such as the giant panda, the blue whale, the tiger, the mountain gorilla and the monarch butterfly, that capture the public's attention and attract support for conservation measures. Paradoxically, however, conservation bias towards flagship species sometimes threatens other species of chief concern. \n\nConservation biologists study trends and process from the paleontological past to the ecological present as they gain an understanding of the context related to species extinction. It is generally accepted that there have been five major global mass extinctions that register in Earth's history. These include: the Ordovician (440 mya), Devonian (370 mya), Permian–Triassic (245 mya), Triassic–Jurassic (200 mya), and Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event (66 mya) extinction spasms. Within the last 10,000 years, human influence over the Earth's ecosystems has been so extensive that scientists have difficulty estimating the number of species lost; that is to say the rates of deforestation, reef destruction, wetland draining and other human acts are proceeding much faster than human assessment of species. The latest \"Living Planet Report\" by the World Wide Fund for Nature estimates that we have exceeded the bio-regenerative capacity of the planet, requiring 1.6 Earths to support the demands placed on our natural resources.\n\nConservation biologists are dealing with and have published evidence from all corners of the planet indicating that humanity may be causing the sixth and fastest planetary extinction event. It has been suggested that we are living in an era of unprecedented numbers of species extinctions, also known as the Holocene extinction event. The global extinction rate may be approximately 1,000 times higher than the natural background extinction rate. It is estimated that two-thirds of all mammal genera and one-half of all mammal species weighing at least have gone extinct in the last 50,000 years. The Global Amphibian Assessment reports that amphibians are declining on a global scale faster than any other vertebrate group, with over 32% of all surviving species being threatened with extinction. The surviving populations are in continual decline in 43% of those that are threatened. Since the mid-1980s the actual rates of extinction have exceeded 211 times rates measured from the fossil record. However, \"The current amphibian extinction rate may range from 25,039 to 45,474 times the background extinction rate for amphibians.\" The global extinction trend occurs in every major vertebrate group that is being monitored. For example, 23% of all mammals and 12% of all birds are Red Listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), meaning they too are threatened with extinction. Even though extinction is natural, the decline in species is happening at such an incredible rate that evolution can simply not match, therefore, leading to the greatest continual mass extinction on Earth. Humans have dominated the planet and our high consumption of resources, along with the pollution generated is affecting the environments in which other species live. There are a wide variety of species that humans are working to protect such as the Hawaiian Crow and the Whooping Crane of Texas. People can also take action on preserving species by advocating and voting for global and national policies that improve climate, under the concepts of climate mitigation and climate restoration. The Earth's oceans especially require attention, as climate change has altered pH levels making it inhabitable for organisms with shells, that are dissolving as a result.\n\nGlobal assessments of coral reefs of the world continue to report drastic and rapid rates of decline. By 2000, 27% of the world's coral reef ecosystems had effectively collapsed. The largest period of decline occurred in a dramatic \"bleaching\" event in 1998, where approximately 16% of all the coral reefs in the world disappeared in less than a year. \"Coral bleaching\" is caused by a mixture of environmental stresses, including increases in ocean temperatures and acidity, causing both the release of symbiotic algae and death of corals. Decline and extinction risk in coral reef biodiversity has risen dramatically in the past ten years. The loss of coral reefs, which are predicted to go extinct in the next century, threatens the balance of global biodiversity, will have huge economic impacts, and endangers food security for hundreds of millions of people. Conservation biology plays an important role in international agreements covering the world's oceans (and other issues pertaining to biodiversity).\n\nThe oceans are threatened by acidification due to an increase in CO levels. This is a most serious threat to societies relying heavily upon oceanic natural resources. A concern is that the majority of all marine species will not be able to evolve or acclimate in response to the changes in the ocean chemistry.\n\nThe prospects of averting mass extinction seems unlikely when \"[...] 90% of all of the large (average approximately ≥50 kg), open ocean tuna, billfishes, and sharks in the ocean\" are reportedly gone. Given the scientific review of current trends, the ocean is predicted to have few surviving multi-cellular organisms with only microbes left to dominate marine ecosystems.\n\nSerious concerns also being raised about taxonomic groups that do not receive the same degree of social attention or attract funds as the vertebrates. These include fungal (including lichen-forming species), invertebrate (particularly insect) and plant communities where the vast majority of biodiversity is represented. Conservation of fungi and conservation of insects, in particular, are both of pivotal importance for conservation biology. As mycorrhizal symbionts, and as decomposers and recyclers, fungi are essential for sustainability of forests. The value of insects in the biosphere is enormous because they outnumber all other living groups in measure of species richness. The greatest bulk of biomass on land is found in plants, which is sustained by insect relations. This great ecological value of insects is countered by a society that often reacts negatively toward these aesthetically 'unpleasant' creatures.\n\nOne area of concern in the insect world that has caught the public eye is the mysterious case of missing honey bees (\"Apis mellifera\"). Honey bees provide an indispensable ecological services through their acts of pollination supporting a huge variety of agriculture crops. The use of honey and wax have become vastly used throughout the world. The sudden disappearance of bees leaving empty hives or colony collapse disorder (CCD) is not uncommon. However, in 16-month period from 2006 through 2007, 29% of 577 beekeepers across the United States reported CCD losses in up to 76% of their colonies. This sudden demographic loss in bee numbers is placing a strain on the agricultural sector. The cause behind the massive declines is puzzling scientists. Pests, pesticides, and global warming are all being considered as possible causes.\n\nAnother highlight that links conservation biology to insects, forests, and climate change is the mountain pine beetle (\"Dendroctonus ponderosae\") epidemic of British Columbia, Canada, which has infested of forested land since 1999. An action plan has been prepared by the Government of British Columbia to address this problem.\n\nA large proportion of parasite species are threatened by extinction. A few of them are being eradicated as pests of humans or domestic animals, however, most of them are harmless. Threats include the decline or fragmentation of host populations, or the extinction of host species.\n\nToday, many threats to Biodiversity exist. An acronym that can be used to express the top threats of present-day H.I.P.P.O stands for Habitat Loss, Invasive Species, Pollution, Human Population, and Overharvesting. The primary threats to biodiversity are habitat destruction (such as deforestation, agricultural expansion, urban development), and overexploitation (such as wildlife trade). Habitat fragmentation also poses challenges, because the global network of protected areas only covers 11.5% of the Earth's surface. A significant consequence of fragmentation and lack of linked protected areas is the reduction of animal migration on a global scale. Considering that billions of tonnes of biomass are responsible for nutrient cycling across the earth, the reduction of migration is a serious matter for conservation biology.\n\nHowever, human activities need not necessarily cause irreparable harm to the biosphere. With conservation management and planning for biodiversity at all levels, from genes to ecosystems, there are examples where humans mutually coexist in a sustainable way with nature. Even with the current threats to biodiversity there are ways we can improve the current condition and start anew.\n\nMany of the threats to biodiversity, including disease and climate change, are reaching inside borders of protected areas, leaving them 'not-so protected' (e.g. Yellowstone National Park). Climate change, for example, is often cited as a serious threat in this regard, because there is a feedback loop between species extinction and the release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Ecosystems store and cycle large amounts of carbon which regulates global conditions. In present day, there have been major climate shifts with temperature changes making survival of some species difficult. The effects of global warming add a catastrophic threat toward a mass extinction of global biological diversity. Conservationists have claimed that not all the species can be saved, and they have to decide which their efforts should be used to protect. This concept is known as the Conservation Triage. The extinction threat is estimated to range from 15 to 37 percent of all species by 2050, or 50 percent of all species over the next 50 years. The current extinction rate is 100-100,000 times more rapid today than the last several billion years.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9599165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9599165", "title": "Department of Geography, University of Cambridge", "text": "Department of Geography, University of Cambridge\n\nThe Department of Geography is one of the constituent departments of the University of Cambridge and is located on the Downing Site. The department has long had an international reputation as a leading centre of research and is consistently ranked as one of the best geography departments in the UK. In 2013 the department was ranked by \"The Guardian\" University Rankings as the best geography undergraduate degree in the country.\n\nThere is a long tradition of geography at Cambridge stretching back to the first University Lecturer in Geography appointed in 1888. Teaching was initially for a special examination leading to a diploma in geography. The Geographical Tripos - the examination for a B.A. degree - was established in 1919. In 1931 the first professor was appointed and in 1933 the department moved into its own accommodation. That building, which now constitutes the eastern end of the department, was considerably extended in the 1930s, with the construction of new lecture theatres and laboratories. In the 1980s, the building was further extended with the addition of a top floor to provide a new laboratory for computing, remote sensing and geographical information systems. In 1999 the department expanded again, to occupy two floors in an adjacent building where new laboratories, seminar rooms and offices are housed.\n\nSince then, the Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure and the University of Cambridge Centre for Gender Studies have been integrated into the teaching and research activities of the Department (2001), and the Scott Polar Research Institute become a sub-department in 2002. Today, the Department has 35 academic staff including ten professors and four readers.\n\nResearch in the department is organised in the following research clusters:\n\nThe department has produced a large range of notable alumni, including David Harvey, the world's most cited academic geographer, and winner of the Lauréat Prix International de Géographie Vautrin Lud.\nOther notable alumni and staff include:\n\n"}
{"id": "23790403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23790403", "title": "DubaiSat-1", "text": "DubaiSat-1\n\nDubaiSat-1 is a remote sensing Earth observation satellite built by the \"Emirates Institution for Advanced Science and Technology (EIAST)\" under an agreement with Satrec Initiative, a satellite manufacturing company in South Korea. The earth observation satellite was designed and developed by \"Satrec Initiative\", with participation from EIAST engineers.\n\nDubaiSat-1 was launched on July 29, 2009 into a 680 km altitude sun-synchronous polar orbit from the Baikonur launch site in Kazakhstan, along with several other satellites on board the Dnepr launch vehicle.\n\nDubaiSat-1 observes the earth at a Low Earth orbit (LEO) and generates high-resolution optical images at 2.5m in panchromatic and at 5m in multispectral bands. These images provide decision makers in the UAE as well as EIAST clients with a valuable tool for a wide range of applications including infrastructure development, urban planning, and environment monitoring and protection. DubaiSat-1 images are also useful for promoting geosciences and remote sensing research in the region, and for supporting different scientific disciplines in private and academic sectors.\n\nFor example, DubaiSat-1 images have been used, to monitor progress on the Dubai World Megaproject, Palm Islands, and the Al Maktoum International Airport.\n\nThe United Nations also used DubaiSat-1 images to monitor relief efforts following the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami in Japan.\n\nThe satellite accommodates two main payloads. The primary payload is the \"Dubai Medium Aperture Camera (DMAC)\", and the secondary and experimental payload, the \"Space Radiation Monitor (SRM)\".\n\nThe DMAC system is pushbroom imaging system with one panchromatic and four multi-spectral imaging channels. It also consists of an \"Electro-Optical Subsystem\" and the \"Payload Management Subsystem\". The Electro-Optical Subsystem has a telescope, a focal plane assembly, and a Signal Processing Module. The Payload Management Subsystem consists of the \"Thermal & Power Module\" and the \"Mass storage & Control Module\".\n\nThe \"Space Radiation Monitor\", the secondary and experimental payload, is capable of measuring the total ionizing dose from the charged particles at the orbits of satellites. The instrument utilizes four \"p-type Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor Field Effects Transistors (MOSFETs)\". These devices measure the current-voltage characteristics of the satellite. Subsequent analysis will allow measurements of the amount of cumulative ionizing dose, and of the total ionizing dose of the devices.\n\nDubaiSat-1 has a hexagonal body with three deployable solar panels. The frame includes spacecraft adaptors, six longerons, rails, an inner ring that provides rigidity and stability of the satellite's camera, inner rods and three decks. Three spacecraft adaptors connect with shear brackets and mechanically couple the satellite and separation adaptor of the launch vehicle, the Dnepr Rocket. Each one of the spacecraft adaptors has separation sensors to monitor the separation condition between the satellite and the launch vehicle. The umbilical connector attaches on the lower surface of the bottom deck with its mounting support bracket.\n\nEIAST's Ground Station is located in Dubai, and is the only ground system supporting the DubaiSat-1 mission. The ground system consists of three main subsystems:\n\nThe \"Antenna and RF subsystem\" consists of an 11.28 meter antenna system, an S-band transmitter feed, an S-band receiver feed, an X-band receiver feed, and a tracking system. The RF equipment, including transmitting and receiving antennas, are used to communicate with the satellite. The Antenna & RF subsystem receives X-band RF signals and performs RF processing. It also produces a demodulated and bit-synchronized data stream from X-band signals. In general, the main functions of the antenna & RF subsystem are to transmit imaging orders and command the satellite through the S-band transmitter feed; receive information and health status from the satellite through the S-band receiver feed; and download the images through the X-band feed.\n\nFrom the Mission Control Station, EIAST staff plan and operate the entire space mission, including the configuration and scheduling of resources for both space and ground elements. It also monitors and commands the satellite.\n\nThe third component of the ground system is the \"Image Receiving and Processing Station (IRPS)\". The IRPS receives and processes the X-band downlink data in real-time. This includes generation of standard image products and catalogues for integration with system management; for archive management; and for comprehensive user interface to provide easy access to satellite image data.\n\nThe IRPS is located at EIAST’s ground station in Dubai, UAE. It has a direct interface with the main mission control station and it generates schedule requests which includes imaging and download schedules. It also archives image and ancillary data for product generation and distribution.\n\nSatellite imagery provides an alternative way of looking at the world. It can add significant incremental data useful in a wide range of applications. The high-resolution spatial images can complement the existing geographic information system databases too.\n\nDubaiSat-1 images support infrastructure development in the UAE and the Persian Gulf region. These images assist decision makers involved in urban and rural planning, transportation, utilities and mapping. Some images were also useful for monitoring progress on the Dubai World Megaproject, Palm Islands and the Al Maktoum International Airport.\n\nMany environmental and meteorological events such as vegetation stress, fog, land degradation, sandstorms, desertification and droughts cannot be captured by ground measurements alone, making remote sensing an important tool in environmental monitoring. The sun-synchronous orbit of DubaiSat-1 merges with data from geostationary missions to provide enhancements on existing models.\n\nAdditionally, due to their low precipitation rates, arid regions are the world’s major source of atmospheric dust that affects local, regional and global climate. Dust and sand storms create potentially hazardous air quality for humans, and adversely affect climate on regional and worldwide scales. Remote sensing is a demonstrably valuable tool for detecting, mapping and forecasting such events. However arid and semi arid regions have their own specific and unique characteristics and vulnerabilities that require special attention when adapting existing remote sensing tools efficiently. Satellite imaging helps monitor and improve management of the world’s agricultural resources. Multispectral images contribute by monitoring land use, generating vegetation indices, and monitorong water quality.\n\nSatellite images are useful tools to assist disaster relief teams to determine how to tackle rescue and recovery efforts in the wake of catastrophic natural, or even man-made, events. In the aftermath of the tsunami in Japan on March 11, 2011, EIAST applied DubaiSat-1 to help disaster relief teams determine and manage the scale of the event.\n\nDubaiSat-2 is an electro-optical earth observation satellite system to be launched and operated by Emirates Institution for Advanced Science and Technology. The spacecraft will have a ground sampling distance of 1 meter at 600 km in a sun-synchronous orbit. DubaiSat-2 will have the capacity to store approximately 17,000 km of image data. It is relatively small, weighing less than 300 kg and suitable for commercial use within the UAE or other regions worldwide. The electro-optical payload is a push-broom camera with TDI sensors.\n\nThe Launch was scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2012 and is ready, but launch practicalities will move it into 2013. DubaiSat-2 also includes an experimental propulsion system for orbit correction and maintenance. The satellite’s expected lifetime is at least five years. The modules in the satellite use two CAN Bus networks to communicate with each other without the use of a host computer.\n\nThe following are some of the satellite images taken by DubaiSat-1:\n"}
{"id": "38478167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38478167", "title": "Dura-Europos Route map", "text": "Dura-Europos Route map\n\nThe Dura-Europos Route map - also known as \"stages map\" - is the fragment of a speciality map from Late Antiquity discovered 1923 in Dura-Europos. The map had been drawn onto the leather covering of a shield by a Roman soldier of the Cohors XX Palmyrenorum between AD 230 and AD 235. The fragment is considered the oldest map of (a part of) Europe preserved in the original.\n\nThe Belgian archaeologist Franz Cumont discovered the map fragment during excavations in Dura Europos in 1923 in the submerged “Tower of the Archers”. The map is a fragment of leather or parchment, painted in colour, which had been found among the remnants of wooden oval shields. It was identified by Cumont as the remains of the leather cover of a laminated shield with remnants of the wooden parts of the shield still attached to the back. The map had been made by a Roman soldier, probably an infantrymen or an archer of the Cohors XX Palmyrenorum stationed in Dura. This soldier drew the travel stages of his unit on the march through the Crimean on the leather cover of his shield somewhere between AD 230 and AD 235. Geographical inconsistencies may point towards the owner of the shield having commissioned somebody else with the drawing.\n\nThe preserved fragment of the map is 0,45 by 0,18 m. Cumont assumed that the map originally had had a width of 0,65 m. The depiction is divided by a semi-circular white line into two parts. This roughly drawn line represents the coastline of the western and northern coast of the Black Sea. To the left side of the coast, the open sea is represented in blue colour, with three ships on the fragment preserved. To the right of the coastline, the land is shown in reddish colour. Twelve places of the Black Sea region are named on the map, with the Latin names being used, but transcribed into Greek. To the right of each place name, distances were noted in Roman miles, comparable to the Itinerarium Antonini. The places themselves have been depicted symbolically, with the draughtsman using the same symbol - a building with a gabled roof - for all places.\nIt is very likely that the places mentioned are stages of a march of the Cohors XX Palmyrenorum. Two blue lines under the names Ἰστρος, ποτ(αμός) and Δάνουβις ποτ(αμός) suggest rivers which were crossed during the march.\n\nThe list of stages of the preserved part of the map after Cumont is as follows:\n\nThe first part of the route corresponds to the route between Byzantium and the mouth of the Danube known from the Itinerarium Antonini and the Tabula Peutingeriana. Some of the cities are also mentioned in the Ravenna Cosmography. Following the map of Dura-Europos, the Danube is crossed after modern Histria and then advances into regions in which the Itinerarium Antonini and the Tabula Peutingeriana do not record any Roman roads.\n\nThe fragment shows that the route map was oriented to the west. This is indicated by the direction of the writing and the arrangement of the décor. In addition to that, the westernmost point of the map, the river Panysus, is on the upper edge of the map, while the easternmost point, the place Ardabda, is on the lower edge. This orientation to the west is unique in Roman cartography, as all other known maps were oriented to the east, towards the sunrise.\n\nThe dating of the map fragment can be narrowed to the first half of the 3rd century. The Cohors XX Palmyrenorum is confirmed to have been in Dura-Europos in AD 230 by a dedication to the Roman Emperor Alexander Severus, which gives us a starting date. After the Roman defeat in the battle of Edessa in AD 260, the Roman presence was all but forced out of the Black Sea region. One city named in the map, Histria, already had fallen to the Goths in AD 238, after severe riots in the region following the death of Alexander Severus in March of AD 235. A military march through this region after AD 235 or 238 at the latest seems unlikely. These facts give us a time frame for the creation of the route map of five years between AD 230 and 235.\n\nAfter its discovery by Cumont, the route map was soon forgotten again. In his 2004 publication of the weapons and military equipment of Dura-Europos, James mentions the map, but doubts that the fragment was part of a Roman shield. Only Nabbefeld took the map up again in 2008. In addition to its importance for the history of ancient cartography, the map is also important for military history, as it is evidence that Roman military units were present in southern Russia until the Gothic invasion after AD 260 and that the city of Artaxata (today Feodossija) must still have been under Roman control at that time.\nThe map is the only road map of antiquity preserved in the original. The map is preserved at the manuscript collection of the French National Library.\n\n"}
{"id": "11293907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11293907", "title": "European Plain", "text": "European Plain\n\nThe European Plain or Great European Plain is a plain in Europe and is a major feature of one of four major topographical units of Europe - the \"Central and Interior Lowlands\". It is the largest mountain-free landform in Europe, although a number of highlands are identified within it.\n\nThe plain stretches from the Pyrenees mountains and the French coast of the Bay of Biscay in the west to the Russian Ural Mountains in the east. Its shores are washed to the west and northwest by waters of the Atlantic basin, to the northeast - the Arctic basin, and to the southeast - the Mediterranean basin. To the south of the Middle European Plain stretch the central uplands and plateaus of Europe elevating to the peaks of the Alps and the Carpathian Mountains. To the northwest across the English Channel lie the British Isles, while across several straits north of the Jutland Peninsula lies the Scandinavian Peninsula which is part of the Fennoscandia ecoregion.\n\nMost of the plain lies in the temperate broadleaf and mixed forest biome, while its far eastern portion extends into steppe of the ecoregion Eurasian Steppe.\n\nBeside the Great European Plain there is number of other European plains such as the Pannonian Basin or Mid-Danube Plain which lies in the land of Alpine-Carpathian mountains, Padana Plain which is located in the valley of the Po river, and lowlands of the British Isles.\n\nThe Great European Plain is divided into the North European Plain (Middle European Plain) and the East European Plain. The subdivision is a historical one, rather than geomorphological: the Russian portion of East European Plain is also known as the Russian Plain which covers almost entirely the European portion of the Russian Federation (European Russia).\n\nIn Western Europe, the plain is relatively narrow (mostly within in width) in the northern part of Europe, but it broadens significantly toward its eastern part in Western Russia.\n\nThe plains are cut by many important rivers like the Loire, Rhine and Vistula in the west; the Northern Dvina and Daugava flowing northwards in East Europe and Russia and the Volga, the Don and the Dnieper flowing southwards of the European Russia.\n\nThe European plain was once largely covered by forest, before human settlement and the resulting deforestation that occurred. One of the last (and largest) remnants of this primeval forest is Białowieża Forest, which straddles the border between Belarus and Poland. Now the European Plain is the most agriculturally productive region of Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "459062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459062", "title": "Flag of the Faroe Islands", "text": "Flag of the Faroe Islands\n\nThe flag of the Faroe Islands is an offset cross, representing Christianity. It is similar in design to other Nordic flags – a tradition set by the \"Dannebrog\" of Denmark, of which the Faroe Islands are an autonomous country.\n\nThe flag is called Merkið, which means \"the banner\" or \"the mark\". It resembles the flags of neighbouring Norway and Iceland.\n\nThe design of the flag incorporates a red Nordic cross, which is offset to the left. The red cross is fimbriated azure and is set on a white field. The flag design closely resembles that of the Norwegian flag, with the fimbriated cross. The flag proportion is usually 5:7.\n\nWhite symbolises the creators of the flag, the foam of the sea and the pure, radiant sky of the Faroe Islands, while the old Faroese blue and red colours are reminiscent of other Scandinavian and Nordic flags; representing the Faroe Islands' bonds with other Nordic countries.\n\nThe modern Faroese flag was devised in 1919 by Jens Oliver Lisberg and others while they were studying in Copenhagen. The first time Merkið was raised in the Faroe Islands was on 22 June that year in Fámjin on the occasion of a wedding. On 25 April, 1940, the British occupation government approved the flag for use by Faroese vessels, during the tenure of Carl Aage Hilbert as Danish prefect. Britain did not want the same flag as German-occupied Denmark to be used. April 25 is still celebrated as Flaggdagur and it is a national holiday. With the Home Rule Act of 23 March, 1948, the flag was recognized by the Danish Government as the national flag of the Faroes. The original flag is displayed in the church of Fámjin in Suðuroy.\n\n"}
{"id": "242016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242016", "title": "Fort McCoy, Florida", "text": "Fort McCoy, Florida\n\nFort McCoy is an unincorporated community in Marion County, Florida, United States. It is situated northeast of Ocala and lies between the towns of Sparr and Eureka on County Road 316 and is directly north of Silver Springs on County Road 315. The community is part of the Ocala Metropolitan Statistical Area.\n\nFort McCoy is located at . The community is located west of the Ocala National Forest.\n\nFort McCoy was originally named Fort Mackay. MacKay and MacCoy were both settlers in the area who were killed by Indians during the war. The town of Fort McCoy is named after the settler Jeb MacCoy but spelled differently. When hostilities with Native Americans worsened, Jeb MacCoy was killed by Indians while bringing his family into Fort Russell. Captain Mackay was head of the local militia, and was killed while surveying Itonia Scrub on March 20, 1839.\n\nThe first school in Fort McCoy was supposedly a log cabin that was built near the fort; and it is thought to have been abandoned during the Second Seminole War. When the Union Church was built near the Fort McCoy Cemetery, it was used as the school, with church services on the weekends. Sometime between the 1890s and the first decade of the 1900s, a wooden building was built to serve as the school. In 1935, this building was destroyed in a fire. A small new school (to serve the approximate 75 pupils at the time) was built on the land donated by Dr Percy F. Lisk, which was right in front of the old schools location. The new brick school opened in 1936. The earliest known student grade levels are from the 1940s, when the school was known as Fort McCoy High School.\n\nFort McCoy High School was closed in 1963 and re-opened soon after as Fort McCoy Elementary School. The population of Fort McCoy increased over the years, and by the 1980s the property was a vast land full of \"portable classrooms\". Due to the population increase and age of the building (50 years old), the Marion County School Board decided to have a new school built in 1986. The original brick building became the Fort McCoy Public Library in 1996, after a $60,000 renovation. In 1988, the new campus opened, renamed as Fort McCoy School, which now served elementary and middle school students (Pre-K to Eighth grade). That campus is still being used today, as well as the same grade levels being served.\n\nMost kids from kindergarten through eighth grade attend Fort McCoy School. Most high school students in Fort McCoy attend North Marion High School, while some attend Lake Weir High School.\n\n"}
{"id": "18950948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18950948", "title": "Geography of Australia", "text": "Geography of Australia\n\nThe geography of Australia encompasses a wide variety of biogeographic regions being the world's smallest continent but the sixth-largest country in the world. The population of Australia is concentrated along the eastern and southeastern coasts. The geography of the country is extremely diverse, ranging from the snow-capped mountains of the Australian Alps and Tasmania to large deserts, tropical and temperate forests.\n\nNeighbouring countries include Indonesia, East Timor and Papua New Guinea to the north, the Solomon Islands, Vanuatu and the French dependency of New Caledonia to the east, and New Zealand to the southeast.\n\nAustralia is a country, a continent and an island. It is located in Oceania between the Indian Ocean and the South Pacific Ocean. It is the sixth largest country in the world with a total area of (including Lord Howe Island and Macquarie Island), making it slightly smaller than the 48 states of the contiguous United States and 31.5 times larger than the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Australian mainland has a total coastline length of with an additional of island coastlines. There are 758 estuaries around the country with most located in the tropical and sub-tropical zones. Australia claims an extensive Exclusive Economic Zone of 8,148,250 square kilometres (3,146,057 sq. mi). This exclusive economic zone does not include the Australian Antarctic Territory (an additional 5,896 square kilometres). \n\nAustralia has the largest area of ocean jurisdiction of any country on earth. It has no land borders. The northernmost points of the country are the Cape York Peninsula of Queensland and the Top End of the Northern Territory.\nThe western half of Australia consists of the Western Plateau, which rises to mountain heights near the west coast and falls to lower elevations near the continental centre. The Western Plateau region is generally flat, though broken by various mountain ranges such as the Hamersley Range, the MacDonnell Ranges, and the Musgrave Range. Surface water is generally lacking in the Western Plateau, although there are several larger rivers in the west and north, such as the Murchison, Ashburton, and Victoria river. \n\nThe Eastern Highlands, or Great Dividing Range, lie near the eastern coast of Australia, separating the relatively narrow eastern coastal plain from the rest of the continent. These Eastern Australian temperate forests have the greatest relief, the most rainfall, the most abundant and varied flora and fauna, and the densest human settlement.\n\nBetween the Eastern Highlands and the Western Plateau, lie the Central Lowlands, which are made up of the Great Artesian Basin and Australia's largest river systems, Murray-Darling Basin and Lake Eyre Basin.\n\nOff the eastern coast of Australia is the world's largest coral reef complex, the Great Barrier Reef. The State of Tasmania, a large and mountainous island, resides in the south-eastern corner of Australia.\n\nAustralia is the lowest, flattest, and oldest continental landmass on Earth and it has had a relatively stable geological history. Geological forces such as tectonic uplift of mountain ranges or clashes between tectonic plates occurred mainly in Australia's early history, when it was still a part of Gondwana. Its highest peak is Mount Kosciuszko at , which is relatively low in comparison to the highest mountains on other continents. \n\nCharles Rowland Twidale estimates that between 10 and 20% of Australia's modern landscapes formed during the Mesozoic when the continent was part of Gondwana.\n\nAustralia is situated in the middle of the tectonic plate, and therefore currently has no active volcanism. Minor earthquakes which produce no damage occur regularly, while major earthquakes measuring greater than magnitude 6 occur on average every five years. The terrain is mostly low plateau with deserts, rangelands and a fertile plain in the southeast. Tasmania and the Australian Alps do not contain any permanent icefields or glaciers, although they may have existed in the past. The Great Barrier Reef, by far the world's largest coral reef, lies a short distance off the north-east coast.\n\nThe Australian continental landmass consists of six distinct landform divisions.\nThese are:\nBecause much of Australia's interior is arid, the low average annual rainfall means interior rivers are often dry and lakes empty. The headwaters of some waterways are located in tropical regions where summer rains create a high rate of discharge. Flood events drastically alter the dry environment in which the ecology of central Australia has had to adapt to the boom and bust cycle.\n\nThe Great Artesian Basin is an important source of water, the world's largest and deepest fresh water basin. Access to water from the basin has led to the expansion of grazing into areas that were previously far too dry for livestock. Towns and cities across the country sometimes face major water storage and usage crises in which restrictions and other measures are implemented to reduce water consumption. Water restrictions are based on a gradient of activities that become progressively banned as the situation worsens.\n\nBillabong is the Australian name given to the oxbow lakes that can form along a meandering river's course. In a worldwide comparison of height, Australia's waterfalls are relatively insignificant, with the longest drop ranked 135th according to the World Waterfall Database.\n\nAustralia consists of six states, two major mainland territories, and other minor territories. The states are New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, and Western Australia. The two major mainland territories are the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. Western Australia is the largest state covering just under one third of the Australian landmass, followed by Queensland, South Australia, and New South Wales.\n\nAustralia also has several minor territories; the federal government administers a separate area within New South Wales, the Jervis Bay Territory, as a naval base and sea port for the national capital. In addition Australia has the following inhabited, external territories: Norfolk Island, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, and several largely uninhabited external territories: Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Coral Sea Islands, and Heard Island and McDonald Islands. Australia also claims a portion of Antarctica as the Australian Antarctic Territory, although this claim is not widely recognized.\n\nBy far the largest part of Australia is arid or semi-arid. A total of 18% of Australia's mainland consists of named deserts, while additional areas are considered to have a desert climate based on low rainfall and high temperature. Only the south-east and south-west corners have a temperate climate and moderately fertile soil. The northern part of the country has a tropical climate: part is tropical rainforests, part grasslands, and part desert.\n\nRainfall is highly variable, with frequent droughts lasting several seasons thought to be caused in part by the El Niño-Southern Oscillation. Occasionally a dust storm will blanket a region or even several states and there are reports of the occasional large tornado. Rising levels of salinity and desertification in some areas is ravaging the landscape.\n\nAustralia's tropical/subtropical location and cold waters off the western coast make most of western Australia a hot desert with aridity, a marked feature of the greater part of the continent. These cold waters produce little moisture needed on the mainland. A 2005 study by Australian and American researchers investigated the desertification of the interior, and suggested that one explanation was related to human settlers who arrived about 50,000 years ago. Regular burning by these settlers could have prevented monsoons from reaching interior Australia. The outback covers 70 percent of the continent.\n\nCyclones along the northern coasts, severe thunderstorms, droughts, occasional floods, heat waves, and frequent bushfires are natural hazards that are present in Australia.\n\nCurrent environmental issues include: soil erosion from overgrazing, industrial development, urbanization, and poor farming practices; soil salinity rising due to the use of poor quality water; desertification (partly as a result of the introduction by European settlers of Rabbits); introduced pest species; clearing for agricultural purposes threatens the natural habitat of many unique animal and plant species; the Great Barrier Reef off the northeast coast, the largest coral reef in the world, is threatened by increased shipping and its popularity as a tourist site; limited natural fresh water resources; threats from invasive species.\n\nInternational agreements:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58919867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58919867", "title": "Geology of Bulgaria", "text": "Geology of Bulgaria\n\nThe geology of Bulgaria consists of two major structural features. The Rhodope Massif in southern Bulgaria is made up of Archean, Proterozoic and Cambrian rocks and is a sub-province of the Thracian-Anatolian polymettalic province. It has dropped down, faulted basins filled with Cenozoic sediments and volcanic rocks. The Moesian Platform to the north extends into Romania and has Paleozoic rocks covered by rocks from the Mesozoic, typically buried by thick Danube River valley Quaternary sediments. In places, the Moesian Platform has small oil and gas fields. Bulgaria is a country in southeastern Europe. It is bordered by Romania to the north, Serbia and Macedonia to the west, Greece and Turkey to the south, and the Black Sea to the east.\n\nArchean rocks outcrop in the south and west of Bulgaria as part of an ultrametamorphosed polymetamorphic complex including low-grade migmatite, gneissoid granite, and anatexite. Marble, amphibolite and gneiss from the Proterozoic are found in the Rhodope Massif. \n\nDuring the Precambrian, the Variscan Thracian Suture was part of the Balkan-Carpathian ophiolite segment. This feature left behind a highly stratified obducted ophiolite island arc assemblage with tectonized peridotite, dunite, lherzolite, wehrlite and troctolite, as well as pillow lava meta-basalt, and sheeted dikes of micro-gabbro and dolerite. Outcropping in the northwest, these rocks were originally part of the suture north a large landmass and south of the Moesian Platform rocks. \n\nAt the outset of the Paleozoic, Cambrian age politic sediments formed together with volcanic rocks such as keratophyre, spilite, and pyroclastic flows, associated with tholeiitic island arc volcanism. Ordovician, Silurian and Middle Devonian shale and lydite (a form of siliceous argillite rich in graptolite fossils) outcrops in the west. \n\nThe Caledonian orogeny affected the region in the Middle Devonian through the Carboniferous. Carbonates deposited, along with a basin filled with turbidites between two landmasses. Lakes were common during the late Paleozoic, depositing anthracite coal now found north of Varna and Sofia. Permian rocks reflect terrestrial sedimentation and dry land conditions and contain some coal as well as thick conglomerate layers. \n\nIn the Triassic, the lithospheric plates of the Moesian Platform in the north and the Rhodope Massif in the south continued to interact. At the beginning of the Mesozoic, red sandstones were depositing in terrestrial conditions, but as time passed the region became submerged during a marine transgression, kicking off carbonate deposition. During the Ladinian, the central part of the basin reached greater depths below water and experienced anoxic conditions, leading to the formation of organic-rich black shale. The late Triassic brought a marine regression, reducing water levels and returning to platform carbonate formation and then by the Norian carbonate breccia formed as dry land conditions prevailed. In the northwest, there are some signs of volcanism from the time, including continental rift trachyandesite and andesite-basalt eruptions. \n\nIn the east, particularly within the East Balkan Range, are olistolith remnants as an allochthon of Triassic rocks in Middle Jurassic black shales. Triassic rocks include turbidite sandstone and sub-reefal limestone. In Srednogorie, they form a sizeable nappe with phyllite, amphibolite, calcareous schist and turbidites as well as marble. \n\nDuring the Jurassic, a marine transgression began, flooding the entire region by the Callovian. Early Jurassic rocks include basal sandstone and limestone, rich in ammonite, bivalve and brachiopod fossils. A deepwater basin, likely branched off the Paleotethys Ocean was discovered in the East Balkan Range. It was bordered to the south by a turbidite basin with red marl and limestone. \n\nThe center of the basin witnessed black shale deposition in the Middle Jurassic while the edges deposited biomicritic limestone. The northwest and northeast formed platform limestones, separated by a \"groove\" of pelagic micrite and nodular limestone. \nThis sedimentation pattern continued into the Cretaceous, until the Barremian when reef limestones and marl began to build up. An orogeny began in Austria at the end of the Albian, reducing sea levels and confining marine environments to the northwest. By the late Cretaceous, epicontinental limestones were depositing on the Moesian Platform in the north. An island arc developed in the south, while the South Carpathians trough appeared in the northwest, filling with turbidite and marl. Intensive igneous activity began due to subduction in the area of Srednogorie. Deepwater sedimentation with pelagic limestone and turbidites, together with volcanic rocks such as tholeiitic, calc-alkaline or shoshonite rocks mark the late Cretaceous. In fact, rocks near Srednogorie often contain copper ores. The events of the late Cretaceous were the first signs globally of the formation of the Alpine-Himalayan mountain belt. \n"}
{"id": "57721249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57721249", "title": "Geology of Sudan", "text": "Geology of Sudan\n\nThe geology of Sudan formed primarily in the Precambrian, as igneous and metamorphic crystalline basement rock. Ancient terranes and inliers were intruded with granites, granitoids as well as volcanic rocks. Units of all types were deformed, reactivated, intruded and metamorphosed during the Proterozoic Pan-African orogeny. Dramatic sheet flow erosion prevented almost any sedimentary rocks from forming during the Paleozoic and Mesozoic. From the Mesozoic into the Cenozoic the formation of the Red Sea depression and complex faulting led to massive sediment deposition in some locations and regional volcanism. Sudan has petroleum, chromite, salt, gold, limestone and other natural resources. \n\nThe oldest rocks in Sudan are igneous and metamorphic inlier areas formed in the Precambrian and reactivated by the Pan-African orogeny. Examples include the Nuba mountains, Darfur block and the rocks beneath the Nubian and Bayuda deserts. In the two deserts, metasedimentary rocks were intruded by granitoids and turned to migmatite during the Pan-African orogeny. The Red Sea Hills preserve gneiss, metamorphosed to amphibolite grade in the sequence of metamorphic facies and metasediments together with ophiolite assemblages. Fragments of the East Saharan Craton form exotic terranes near Haya, southwest of Port Sudan in the Red Sea Hills. These rock units include quartzite and marble formed between 800 and 900 million years ago as a passive continental margin. \n\nGeologists have interpreted the metasedimentary belts between the East Sahara Craton and the Red Sea fold and thrust belt as a rifting zone, related to the formation of an ocean in the Neoproterozoic. \n\nThe Jebel Rahib Belt, situated in the northwest, contains deformed basic and ultrabasic igneous rocks and thick layers of carbonaceous metasediments, formed at the time of the Pan-African orogeny. This time constraint for deformation and low-grade metamorphism comes from granitoids formed after the orogeny, dated to 570 million years ago. Dense, mafic oceanic crust formed in the Jebel Rahib rift as evidenced by an ophiolite assemblage that includes ultramafic rocks, pyroxenite, gabbro, chert and pillow lava. Pan-African age rocks may have formed in the Nubian Shield outside the Red Sea fold and thrust belt. \n\nThe North Kordofan Belt is very similar to the Jebel Rahib rift and likely formed around the same time, although it lacks ophiolites. The belt contains tourmaline-bearing granites and granitoids, dated to 590 million years ago. Shear zones formed at the end of the orogeny were sealed with mica pegmatite by 560 million years ago. Similarly, intrusive granitoids in the Darfur Belt formed between 590 and 570 million years ago. \n\nThe low-grade volcanic and sedimentary rocks of the Nuba Mountains also include dismembered, remnant ophiolites, basic and acid plutons, metamorphosed 700 million years ago and affected by igneous activity 550 million years ago, after the orogeny ended. The eastern Nuba Mountains is younger Pan-African age crust, likely a klippe or a small ocean basin. \n\nA strip of tonalite, granodiorite and peralkaline granites, formed from low-grade metasediments, metavolcanics and granitoids at the time of the Pan-African orogeny occur along the eastern bank of the Nile River. These rocks were intruded by granitoids twice, once 898 and again 678 million years ago. Between the Nile and Red Sea Hills, another area of metasedimentary rocks outcrops, including marbles intercalated with metaquartzite. \n\nSudan experienced extensive pediplanation, a form of sheet flow erosion that scours away overlying sediments, leaving a gently inclined bedrock surface. Because of this, the country has hardly any unmetamorphosed rocks from the Paleozoic or early Mesozoic, with the exception of a few 530 million year old Early Cambrian rocks at Sabaloka. \n\nStructural geologists believe that the Red Sea depression is not bounded by faults. Rather, it formed beginning in the Carboniferous as a subsidence zone and continued to develop in the Mesozoic as a depression between monocline flexures approximately marking the present African and Arabian coasts of the sea. \n\nRift-related faulting in the Oligocene through the Miocene in the Sudan monocline zone led to the deposition of 4.3 kilometers of sediment in the vicinity of what is now the Suakin Archipelago, filling the trough. By the Miocene, the region was an area of shallow lagoons, in which evaporites deposited. \n\nA renewed period of intense faulting in the Pliocene and early Pleistocene formed a central trough and led to basic and ultrabasic volcanic dikes intruding the Red Sea area. The region stabilized by the Pleistocene, after the connection with the Mediterranean closed in the Pliocene. \n\nThe 60 to 80 meter thick Quaternary Gezira, Atshan and Gash Formations are unconfined and unconsolidated aquifers, composed of alluvial sand, silt, clay and gravel with high quality water. The Gezira and Atshan aquifers are recharged by water leakage from the Blue and White Nile, while the Gezira is recharged from the Gezira River. The Um Ruwaba Formation, by contrast is also unconsolidated and sometimes several hundred meters thick, but recharges very slowly from rainwater, limiting its use to domestic production and livestock watering. \n\nFractured and weathered zones with Gedaref basalts and Jebel Mara volcanic rocks fresh groundwater close to the surface and brine deeper in the aquifers. Paleozoic sedimentary rocks in western Sudan and Red Sea littoral sediments exhibit a mix of intergranular and fracture flow. The Nubian Sandstone Aquifer and Gedaref Sandstone have significant intergranular flow and storage and range between 40 and 400 meters thick. Water from these formation is typically fresh, although high salinity affects some water at greater depths. A similar fresh to brackish range is seen in the five to 20 meter thick weathered zone—and fractures—associated with Precambrian basement rock. \n\nSudan has extensive natural resources, even after the independence of South Sudan in 2011 reduced the oil reserves within its borders. Natural gas is found offshore of Port Sudan in the Red Sea and many mineral reserves are situated in the eastern highlands. Sudan has chromite, gold, gypsum, limestone and salt, although the combined production of chromite, salt and gold accounts for only one percent of the value of exports. \n"}
{"id": "42129701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42129701", "title": "Gerald Blake (academic)", "text": "Gerald Blake (academic)\n\nGerald Henry Blake is a retired British academic and geographer. He is Professor Emeritus of Geography at Durham University. He was Principal of Collingwood College, Durham from 1987 to 2001.\n\nHe attended Monkton Combe School from 1949 to 1954.\n"}
{"id": "33956295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33956295", "title": "Gernot Grabher", "text": "Gernot Grabher\n\nGernot Grabher (born 13 April 1960 in Dornbirn, Austria) is an economic geographer and Professor of Urban and Regional Economic Studies at the HafenCity University Hamburg. He received his Ph.D. in 1987 at Vienna University of Technology, and held positions at the Wissenschaftszentrum Berlin (WZB), King's College London, the University of Konstanz and the University of Bonn. Grabher was Visiting Professor at Columbia University, Copenhagen Business School, Santa Fe Institute, Cornell University and the Institute of Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences. Between 2007 and 2011 he was co-editor of Economic Geography. Currently, he is co-editor of the Regions and Cities book series of the Regional Studies Association. Gernot Grabher is internationally renowned for his research on networks, regional evolution and decline, and project organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "48450915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48450915", "title": "Gill Valentine", "text": "Gill Valentine\n\nGill Valentine is a geographer, currently Professor of Geography and Pro-Vice-Chancellor of social sciences at the University of Sheffield. Prior to Sheffield, she was head of Geography at the University of Leeds.\n\nValentine is a specialist in social geography, with her key areas of research covering social identities and belonging; childhood, parenting and family life; and urban cultures and consumption. Her research in particular has focused on geographies of childhood, on alcohol-consumption and youth culture and on women's geographies. A co-founder of the journal \"Social & Cultural Geography\" and co-editor of former co-editor of Gender, Place and Culture, she has made significant contributions to feminist geography. Unusual for a human geographer, her work has received over 21,000 citations as of 2017.\n\nAs Pro-Vice-Chancellor of social sciences she has overall responsibility for this field, and has hired Heads of Departments and reallocated staff over the last few years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "290031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290031", "title": "ISO 3166-2:CZ", "text": "ISO 3166-2:CZ\n\nISO 3166-2:CZ is the entry for Czechia in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for two levels of subdivisions within the country:\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code for the country. The second part is either of the following:\n\nFor the districts, the first two digits indicate the region that the district is in (based on the original NUTS code of the region):\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nSubdivision names are sorted in Czech alphabetical order: a (á), b, c, č, d (ď), e (é) (ě), f, g, h, ch, i (í), j, k, l, m, n (ň), o (ó), p, q, r, ř, s, š, t (ť), u (ú) (ů), v, w, x, y (ý), z, ž.\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\nThe following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10749823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10749823", "title": "ISO 3166-2:GG", "text": "ISO 3166-2:GG\n\nISO 3166-2:GG is the entry for Guernsey in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently no ISO 3166-2 codes are defined in the entry for Guernsey.\n\nGuernsey, a crown dependency of the United Kingdom, is officially assigned the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code since 2006. Previously it was assigned the ISO 3166-2 code under the .\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55625584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55625584", "title": "Ilhéu de São Miguel", "text": "Ilhéu de São Miguel\n\nIlhéu de São Miguel is an islet in the Gulf of Guinea and is one of the smaller islands of São Tomé and Príncipe. The islet lies 0.3 km off the southwest coast of the island of São Tomé, near the small village São Miguel, Lembá District. Due south is another islet, Ilhéu Gabado.\n"}
{"id": "53883925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53883925", "title": "Indira Bai", "text": "Indira Bai\n\nIndira Bai is an Indian novel in Kannada language written by Gulavadi Venkata Rao (1844–1913). Published in 1899, it is considered the first modern novel in Kannada. It dealt with the hitherto ostracized practice of widow remarriage. A social novel set in present-day coastal Karnataka, and allegedly based on real incidents, it portrays a society in transition. Supporting widow remarriage, it denounces social evils like corruption in the bureaucracy and the reactionary attitude of established religious institutions, and takes a critical view of the contemporary society.\n"}
{"id": "102496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102496", "title": "John Speed", "text": "John Speed\n\nJohn Speed (1551 or 1552 – 28 July 1629) was an English cartographer and historian. He is the best known English mapmaker of the Stuart period.\n\nSpeed was born at Farndon, Cheshire and went into the tailoring business of his father, Samuel, later in life.\n\nWhile working in London, Speed was a tailor and member of a corresponding guild, and came to the attention of \"learned\" individuals. These individuals included Sir Fulke Greville, who subsequently made him an allowance to enable him to devote his whole attention to research. By 1598 he had enough patronage to leave his manual labor job and \"engage in full-time scholarship.\" As a reward for his earlier efforts, Queen Elizabeth granted Speed the use of a room in the Custom House. Speed, was, by this point, as \"tailor turned scholar\" who had a highly developed \"pictorial sense.\"\n\nIn 1575, Speed married a woman named Susanna Draper in London, later having children with her. These children definitely included a son named John Speed, later a \"learned\" man with a doctorate, and an unknown number of others, since chroniclers and historians cannot agree on how many children they raised. Regardless, there is no doubt that the Speed family was relatively well-off.\n\nBy 1595, Speed published a map of biblical Canaan, in 1598 he presented his maps to Queen Elizabeth, and in 1611-1612 he published maps of Great Britain, with his son perhaps assisting Speed in surveys of English towns.\n\nAt age 77 or 78, in August 1629, Speed died. He was buried alongside his wife in London's St Giles-without-Cripplegate church on Fore Street within the Barbican Estate. Later on, a memorial to John Speed was also erected behind the altar of the church. According to the church's website, \"[His was] one of the few memorials [in the church] that survived the bombing\" of London during The Blitz of 1940–1941 ... The website also notes that \"[t]he cast for the niche in which the bust is placed was provided by the Merchant Taylors' Company, of which John Speed was a member.\" His memorial brass has ended up on display in the Burrell Collection near Glasgow.\n\nSpeed drew historical maps in 1601 and 1627 depicting the invasion of England and Ireland, depictions of the English middle ages, along with those depicting the current time, with rough originals but appealing, colorful final versions of his maps.\n\nIt was with the encouragement of William Camden that Speed began his \"Historie of Great Britaine\", which was published in 1611. Although he probably had access to historical sources that are now lost to us (he certainly used the work of Saxton and Norden), his work as a historian is now considered secondary in importance to his map-making, of which his most important contribution is probably his town plans, many of which provide the first visual record of the British towns they depict. In years leading up to this point, while his atlas was being compiled, he sent letters to Robert Cotton, part of the British government to ask for assistance in gathering necessary materials.\n\nHis atlas \"The Theatre of the Empire of Great Britaine\" was published in 1611 and 1612, and contained the first set of individual county maps of England and Wales besides maps of Ireland and a general map of Scotland. Tacked onto these maps was an introduction at the beginning when he addressed his \"well affected and favourable reader,\" which had numerous Christian and religious undertones, admitting that there may be errors, but he made it the best he could, and stated his purpose for the atlas:\n\n\"...my purpose...is to shew the situation of every Citie and Shire-town only [within Great Britain]...I have separated...[with] help of the tables...any Citie, Towne, Borough, Hamlet, or Place of Note...[it] may be affirmed, that there is not any one Kingdome in the world so exactly described...as is...Great Britaine...In shewing these things, I have chiefly sought to give satisfaction to all.\"\n\nWith maps as \"proof impressions\" and printed from copper plates, detail was engraved in reverse with writing having to be put on the map the correct way, while speed \"copied, adapted and compiled the work of others,\" not doing much of the survey work on his own, which he acknowledged. The atlas was not above projections of his political opinions\" Speed represented King James I as one who unified the \"Kingdoms of the British isles.\" In 2016, the British Library published a book, introduced by former MP Nigel Nicolson and accompanied by commentaries by late medieval and early modern historian Alasdair Hawkyard, which reprinted this collection of maps on the British Isles, showing that Speed had drawn maps of areas ranging from Bedfordshire to Norfolk and Wales.\n\nMost, but not all, of the county maps have town plans on them; those showing a \"Scale of Passes\" being the places he had mapped himself. In 1627, two years before his death, Speed published \"Prospect of the Most Famous Parts of the World\" which was the first world atlas produced by an Englishman, costing 40 shillings, meaning that its circulation was limited to \"richer customers and libraries,\" where many survive to this day.\n\nThere is a fascinating text describing the areas shown on the back of the maps in English, although a rare edition of 1616 of the British maps has a Latin text – this is believed to have been produced for the Continental market. Much of the engraving was done in Amsterdam at the workshop of a Flemish man named Jodocus Hondius, with whom he collaborated with from 1598 until 1612, with Hondius's sudden death, a time period of 14 years. His maps of English and Welsh counties, often bordered with costumed figures ranging from nobility to country folk, are often found framed in homes throughout the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1611, he also published \"The genealogies recorded in the Sacred Scriptures according to euery family and tribe with the line of Our Sauior Jesus Christ obserued from Adam to the Blessed Virgin Mary\", a biblical genealogy, reprinted several times during the 17th century. He also drew maps of the Channel Islands, Poland, and the Americas, the latter published only a few years before his death. On the year of his death, yet another collection of maps of Great Britain he had drawn the year before were published.\n\nDescribed as a \"Protestant historian, \"Puritan historian,\" or \"Protestant propagandist\" by some, Speed wrote about William Shakespeare, whom he called a \"Superlative Monster\" because of certain plays, Roman conquest, history of Chester, and explored \"earlymodern concepts of national identity.\"\nAs these writings indicate, he possibly saw Wales as English and not an independent entity. More concretely, there is evidence that Speed, in his chronicling of history, uses \"theatrical metaphors\" and his developed \"historiographic skill\" to work while he repeats myths from medieval times as part of his story.\n\nSince his maps were used in many high circles, Speed's legacy has been long-reaching. After his death, in 1673 and 1676, some of his other maps on the British isles, the Chesapeake Bay region, specifically of Virginia and Maryland, the East Indies, the Russian Empire then ruled by Peter the Great, Jamaica, and Barbados, among other locations. With these printings and others, Speed's maps became the basis for world maps until at least the mid-eighteenth century, with his maps reprinted many times, and served as a major contribution to British topography for years to come.\n\nIn later years, Speed would be called \"our English Mercator,\" a person of \"extraordinary industry and attainments in the study of antiques,\" an \"honest and impartial historian,\" a \"faithful Chronologer,\" and \"our Cheshire historian...a scholar...a distinguished writer on history.\" He was also called a \"celebrated chronologer and histographer,\" \"cartographer,\" and much more.\n\nEven today, prints of his \"beautiful maps\" can be found in living rooms across the world, and sell for hundreds of thousands of pounds in rare art and map auctions, drawing in map collectors across the globe. Also, some use John Speed's maps, and connected commentary, to interpret William Shakespeare's plays, especially since Speed did not like Shakespeare in the slightest, calling him a \"papist\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "49594496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49594496", "title": "List of Walt Disney anthology television series episodes", "text": "List of Walt Disney anthology television series episodes\n\nBelow is a list of episodes of the Walt Disney anthology television series.\n\n\"Each week, as you enter this timeless land, one of these many worlds will open to you:\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33070937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33070937", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Albania", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Albania\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage sites are places of importance to cultural or natural heritage as described in the UNESCO World Heritage Convention, established in 1972. Albania ratified the Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage on 10 July 1989, making its historical sites eligible for inclusion on the list.\n\n, there are three sites in Albania inscribed on the list and further five sites on the tentative list. The first site in Albania to be added to the list was the ancient city of Butrint which was inscribed at the 16th UNESCO session in 1992. The historic centre of Gjirokastër was inscribed in 2005 as Museum-City of Gjirokastra. In 2008, the historic centre of Berat was added to the site, to form the Historic Centres of Berat and Gjirokastër. In 2017, the Gashi River and Rrajcë regions were listed as part of the Ancient and Primeval Beech Forests of the Carpathians and Other Regions of Europe that is shared with eleven other countries.\n\nUNESCO lists sites under ten criteria; each entry must meet at least one of the criteria. Criteria i through vi are cultural, whereas vii through x are natural.\n\nIn addition to the sites inscribed on the World Heritage list, member states can maintain a list of tentative sites that they may consider for nomination. Nominations for the World Heritage list are only accepted if the site was previously listed on the tentative list. , Albania records five sites on its tentative list.\n\n"}
{"id": "31714975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31714975", "title": "List of airlines of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines", "text": "List of airlines of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nThis is a list of airlines currently operating in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.\n\n"}
{"id": "14447509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14447509", "title": "List of airports in Antarctica", "text": "List of airports in Antarctica\n\nThis is a list of airports in Antarctica, sorted by location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31753596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31753596", "title": "List of articles about Canadian oil sands", "text": "List of articles about Canadian oil sands\n\nThis is a list of articles related to Canadian oil sands:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10058877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10058877", "title": "List of banks in Macau", "text": "List of banks in Macau\n\nThis is a list of banks in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China. According to the Monetary Authority of Macao, there are 27 licensed banks in Macau, 4 of which are headquartered in Macau.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8462817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8462817", "title": "List of dams and reservoirs in Dominican Republic", "text": "List of dams and reservoirs in Dominican Republic\n\nThere are numerous dams and reservoirs in the Dominican Republic, which is composed of rivers, lakes, streams, and numerous waterfalls.\n\nThe main rivers in the Dominican Republic are the Yaque del Norte, which is the longest in the country at 201 km in length. The second largest and the strongest river is the Yuna River which is 138 km in length and the third largest is the Yaque del Sur which is 136 km in length.\n\n\"Note:\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11360365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11360365", "title": "List of mammals of Guam", "text": "List of mammals of Guam\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in Guam. There are 10 mammal species in Guam, of which 0 are critically endangered, 2 are endangered, 0 are vulnerable, and 0 are near-threatened. 1 of the species listed for Guam is considered to be extinct.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\n\nThe bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals in the world naturally capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20% of all mammals.\n\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41824997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41824997", "title": "List of regions of Peru by population", "text": "List of regions of Peru by population\n\nThe following is a list of the regions of Peru ordered by population from Census 2007 and estimated population of INEI.\n\n"}
{"id": "22408108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22408108", "title": "Lobate debris apron", "text": "Lobate debris apron\n\nLobate debris aprons (LDAs) are geological features on Mars, first seen by the Viking Orbiters, consisting of piles of rock debris below cliffs. These features have a convex topography and a gentle slope from cliffs or escarpments, which suggest flow away from the steep source cliff. In addition, lobate debris aprons can show surface lineations as do rock glaciers on the Earth.\n\nThe Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter's Shallow Radar gave a strong reflection from the top and base of LDAs, meaning that pure water ice made up the bulk of the formation (between the two reflections). This is evidence that the LDAs in Hellas Planitia are glaciers covered with a thin layer of rocks. In addition, radar studies in Deuteronilus Mensae show that all lobate debris aprons examined in that region contain ice.\n\nThe experiments of the Phoenix lander and the studies of the Mars Odyssey from orbit show that frozen water exists just under the surface of Mars in the far north and south (high latitudes). Most of the ice was deposited as snow when the climate was different. The discovery of water ice in LDAs demonstrates that water is found at even lower latitudes. Future colonists on Mars will be able to tap into these ice deposits, instead of having to travel to much higher latitudes. Another major advantage of LDAs over other sources of Martian water is that they can easily be detected and mapped from orbit. Lobate debris aprons are shown below from the Phlegra Montes which are at a latitude of 38.2 degrees north. The Phoenix lander set down at about 68 degrees north latitude, so the discovery of water ice in LDAs greatly expands the range of water easily available on Mars. It is far easier to land a spaceship near the equator of Mars, so the closer water is available to the equator the better it will be for colonists.\n\nThe floors of some channels show ridges and grooves that seem to flow around obstacles; these features are called lineated floor deposits or lineated valley fill (LVF). Like lobate debris aprons, they are believed to be ice-rich. Some glaciers on the Earth show such features.\n\nIt has been suggested that lineated floor deposits began as LDAs. By tracing the paths of the curved ridges characteristic of LDAs, researchers have come to believe that they straighten out to form the ridges of LVF. Both lineated floor deposits and lobate debris aprons often display a strange surface formation called brain terrain because it looks like the surface of the human brain.\n\nReull Vallis, pictured below, displays these deposits. Sometimes the lineated floor deposits show a chevron pattern which is further evidence of movement. The picture below taken with HiRISE of Reull Vallis shows these patterns.\n\n"}
{"id": "1833996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1833996", "title": "Matthew (ship)", "text": "Matthew (ship)\n\nThe Matthew is a replica of a caravel sailed by John Cabot in 1497 from Bristol to North America, presumably Newfoundland. After a voyage which had got no further than Iceland, Cabot left again with only one vessel, the \"Matthew\", a small ship (50 tons), but fast and able. The crew consisted of only 18 men. \"The Matthew\" departed either 2 May or 20 May 1497. He sailed to Dursey Head (latitude 51°36N), Ireland, from where he sailed due west, expecting to reach Asia. However, landfall was reached in North America on 24 June 1497. His precise landing place is a matter of much controversy, with Cape Bonavista or St. John's in Newfoundland the most likely sites.\n\nCabot went ashore to take possession of the land, and explored the coast for some time, probably departing on 20 July. On the homeward voyage his sailors incorrectly thought they were going too far north, so Cabot sailed a more southerly course, reaching Brittany instead of England. On 6 August he arrived back in Bristol.\n\nLack of clear documentation has been a problem in studying the history of \"Matthew\". Even its name has been questioned, with some authors suggesting that it was actually named \"Mattea\" after Cabot's wife. Until the 1950s, all that was known about its size is that it was a small ship carrying about 18 men, but the discovery of a letter from a Bristol merchant named John Day written in 1497 saying that \"in his voyage he had only one ship of fifty 'toneles' and twenty men and food for seven or eight months\" provided more certainty about its size. The age of the ship is also uncertain. The name \"Matthew\" does not appear in the 1492/3 customs accounts, so it was either fairly new or an older ship renamed or a foreign ship. It has been suggested that it probably was an ordinary Bristol merchant ship hired for the occasion. The name \"Matthew\" appears in documents in 1503/04 and 1510/11 but in a 1513 survey there is reference to a 'new Matthew' and references to this ship afterward leave out the 'new' suggesting that Cabot's \"Matthew\" no longer existed.\n\nTo celebrate the 500th anniversary of Cabot's voyage, a replica of \"Matthew\" was built in Bristol by Storms'l Services, a precursor of the Bristol Classic Boat Company. The design was by naval architect Colin Mudie. She was dedicated in a ceremony during the first International Festival of the Sea, held in Bristol's Floating Harbour in 1996. The next year, she reconstructed Cabot's original journey on the 500th anniversary of the landmark voyage. On 24 June 1997 the replica of \"Matthew\" was welcomed into port at Bonavista by Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nThe full-size replica is in length overall with a beam of with a draft of and of sail.\n\nOn 29 February 2012 \"Matthew\"'s ownership was transferred to The Matthew of Bristol Trust, and she was relocated to her new home outside Bristol's M Shed museum.\n\nIn June 2012 she took part in the Queen's Diamond Jubilee pageant on the River Thames.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3084362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3084362", "title": "Party wall", "text": "Party wall\n\nA party wall (occasionally parti-wall or parting wall, also known as common wall) is a dividing partition between two adjoining buildings that is shared by the occupants of each residence or business. Typically, the builder lays the wall along a property line dividing two terraced houses, so that one half of the wall's thickness lies on each side. This type of wall is usually structural. Party walls can also be formed by two abutting walls built at different times. The term can be also used to describe a division between separate units within a multi-unit apartment complex. Very often the wall in this case is non-structural but designed to meet established criteria for sound and/or fire protection, i.e. a firewall.\n\nWhile party walls are effectively in common ownership of two or more immediately adjacent owners, there are various possibilities for legal ownership: the wall may belong to both tenants (in common), to one tenant or the other, or partly to one, partly to the other. In cases where the ownership is not shared, both parties have \"use\" of the wall, if not ownership. Other party structures can exist, such as floors dividing flats or apartments.\n\nApart from special statutory definitions, the term \"Party Wall\" may be used in four different legal senses. \n\nIn English law the party wall does not confirm a boundary at its median point and there are instances where the legal boundary between adjoining lands actually comes at one face or the other of a wall or part of it, and sometimes at some odd measurement within the thickness of the wall. The legal position is, however, clear insofar as a party using or benefiting from a party wall or structure abutting, on or in its land has rights to use the wall and for it to be retained should the other side no longer wish it to be there. For this reason, expert surveyors are used in the main to issue notices, deal with the response from someone receiving a notice and settling any dispute by an Award. Details can be obtained from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.\n\nOriginating in London as early as the 11th century, requirements for terraced houses to have a dividing wall substantially capable of acting as a fire break have been applied in some form or other. Evidently, this was not enough to prevent the several great fires of London, and the most famous of which being the Great Fire of 1666.\n\nIn England and Wales, the Party Wall etc. Act 1996, confers rights on those whose property adjoins a party wall or other 'party structure' irrespective of ownership of the wall or structure.\n\nThe Hopps Partnership - A firm of RICS registered Surveyors whom specialize in matters pertaining to the Party Wall etc. Act 1996\n\nThe principles of the party wall in Paris under the common law in 1765 are the following: \n\n\nIn the USA, the term may refer to a fire wall that separates and is used in common by two adjoining buildings (condominium, row house), or the wall between two adjacent commercial buildings that were often built using common walls, or built walls onto existing walls. Rights and obligations are governed by state statutes, and common law.\n\nThe wall starts at the foundation and continues up to a parapet, creating two separate and structurally independent buildings on either side.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1282342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1282342", "title": "Primary immigration", "text": "Primary immigration\n\nPrimary immigration is a term which describes the movement of the earner of a family, or a young unattached single man, from one country to another, usually to improve their economic condition. Once the primary immigrant is established in the new country, they will often send for their family to come and join them (perhaps many years later), according to family reunification immigration laws. This is known as \"secondary immigration\". Most countries tend to restrict the categories of people allowed to be primary immigrants, but allow the reunification of families of people already legally resident.\n"}
{"id": "2830197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2830197", "title": "Regions of Guinea", "text": "Regions of Guinea\n\nGuinea is divided into 8 administrative regions which are further subdivided into 34 prefectures.\n\n"}
{"id": "28774099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28774099", "title": "Richard G. Smith (geographer)", "text": "Richard G. Smith (geographer)\n\nRichard G. Smith is a British geographer. His research focuses on the philosophy of Jean Baudrillard, and urban studies, especially on poststructuralist cities.\n\nSmith was educated at the University of Hull (BA Hons Geography, 1st class, 1992) and University of Bristol (PhD, 1995 - supervised by Sir Nigel Thrift). Currently he works at Swansea University in the United Kingdom.\n\nSmith speaks about cities around the world, recently in Kazan in Russia, and in Bogotá and Medellín in Colombia. He was interviewed about global cities for Colombian TV. His research papers are among the most highly cited in the world. His current research focuses on poststructuralism, assemblage theory, and actor-network theory in urban studies.\n\nHe is the author of numerous articles on Baudrillard's oeuvre. Editor of \"The Baudrillard Dictionary\" (Edinburgh University Press, 2010), \"Jean Baudrillard: Fatal Theories\" (Routledge, 2009), 'Baudrillard Redux' (Special Issue of \"Cultural Politics\", 2011), \"Jean Baudrillard: from Hyperreality to Disappearance: Uncollected Interviews\" (EUP, 2015). He is an editorial board member of the \"International Journal of Baudrillard Studies\". He organized the first major UK conference on Baudrillard's work in 2006 (4-6 September), and was interviewed in 2014 about Baudrillard for a South Korean TV documentary.\n\n"}
{"id": "27885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27885", "title": "Savoy", "text": "Savoy\n\nSavoy (; ; ; ; ; ) is a cultural region in Central Europe. It comprises roughly the territory of the Western Alps between Lake Geneva in the north and Dauphiné in the south.\n\nThe historical land of Savoy emerged as the feudal territory of the House of Savoy during the 11th to 14th centuries. The historical territory is shared among the modern countries of France, Italy, and Switzerland.\n\nInstalled by Rudolph III, King of Burgundy, officially in 1003, the House of Savoy became the longest surviving royal house in Europe. It ruled the County of Savoy to 1416 and then the Duchy of Savoy from 1416 to 1860.\n\nThe territory of Savoy was annexed to France in 1792 under the French First Republic, before being returned to the Kingdom of Sardinia in 1815. Savoy, along with the county of Nice, was finally annexed to France by a plebiscite, under the Second French Empire in 1860, as part of a political agreement (Treaty of Turin) brokered between the French emperor Napoleon III and King Victor Emmanuel II of the Kingdom of Sardinia that began the final steps in the process of unification of Italy. Victor Emmanuel's dynasty, the House of Savoy, retained its Italian lands of Piedmont and Liguria and became the ruling dynasty of Italy.\n\nIn modern France, Savoy is part of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Following its annexation to France in 1860, the territory of Savoy was divided administratively into two separate departments, Savoie and Haute-Savoie.\n\nThe traditional capital remains Chambéry (Ciamberì), on the rivers Leysse and Albane, hosting the castle of the House of Savoy and the Savoyard senate. The state included six districts:\n\nThe County and Duchy of Savoy incorporated Turin and other territories in Piedmont, a region in northwestern Italy that borders Savoy, which were also possessions of the House of Savoy. The capital of the Duchy remained at the traditional Savoyard capital of Chambéry until 1563, when it was moved to Turin.\n\nThe region was occupied by the Allobroges, a Gaulish people that the Roman Republic subdued in 121 BC. The name \"Savoy\" stems from the Late Latin \"Sapaudia\", referring to a fir forest. The word is likely ultimately from Gaulish -- sapin itself is a blend of Gaulish \"sappos\" (fir tree) and Latin \"pinus\" (pine tree). It is first recorded in Ammianus Marcellinus (354), to describe the southern part of \"Maxima Sequanorum\". According to the \"Chronica Gallica\" of 452, it was separated from the rest of Burgundian territories in 443, after the Burgundian defeat by Flavius Aetius.\n\nBy the 8th century, the territory that would later become known as Savoy was part of Francia, and at the division of Francia at the Treaty of Verdun in 843, it became part of the short-lived kingdom of Middle Francia. After only 12 years, at the death of Lothair I in 855, Middle Francia was divided into Lotharingia north of the Alps, Italy south of the Alps, and the parts of Burgundy in the Western Alps, inherited by Charles of Provence. This latter territory comprised what would become known as Savoy and Provence.\n\nFrom the 10th to 14th century, parts of what would ultimately become Savoy remained within the Kingdom of Arles. Beginning in the 11th century, the gradual rise to power of the House of Savoy is reflected in the increasing territory of their County of Savoy between 1003 and 1416.\n\nThe County of Savoy was detached \"de jure\" from the Kingdom of Arles by Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor in 1361. It acquired the County of Nice in 1388, and in 1401 added the County of Geneva, the area of Geneva except for the city proper, which was ruled by its prince-bishop, nominally under the duke's rule: the bishops of Geneva, by unspoken agreement, came from the House of Savoy; this agreement came to an end in 1533.\n\nOn February 19, 1416, Sigismund, Holy Roman Emperor, made the County of Savoy an independent duchy, with Amadeus VIII as the first duke. Straddling the Alps, Savoy lay within two competing spheres of influence, a French sphere and a North Italian one. At the time of the Renaissance, Savoy showed only modest development. Its towns were few and small. Savoy derived its subsistence from agriculture. The geographic location of Savoy was also of military importance. During the interminable wars between France and Spain over the control of northern Italy, Savoy was important to France because it provided access to Italy. Savoy was important to Spain because it served as a buffer between France and the Spanish held lands in Italy. In 1563 Emmanuel Philibert moved the capital from Chambéry to Turin, which was less vulnerable to French interference.\n\nVaud was annexed by Bern in 1536, and Savoy officially ceded Vaud to Bern in the Treaty of Lausanne of 30 October 1564.\n\nIn 1714, as a consequence of the War of the Spanish Succession, Savoy was technically subsumed into the Kingdom of Sicily, then (after that island was traded to Austria for Sardinia) the Kingdom of Sardinia from 1720.\nWhile the heads of the House of Savoy were known as the Kings of Sardinia, Turin remained their capital.\n\nSavoy was occupied by French revolutionary forces between 1792 and 1815. The region was first added to the département of Mont-Blanc, then in 1798 was divided between the départements of Mont-Blanc and Léman (French name of Lake Geneva.) In 1801, Savoy officially left the Holy Roman Empire. On September 13, 1793 the combined forces of Savoy, Piedmont and Aosta Valley fought against and lost to the occupying French forces at the Battle of Méribel (Sallanches). Two-thirds of Savoy was restored to the Kingdom of Sardinia in the First Restoration of 1814 following Napoleon's abdication; approximately one-third of Savoy, including the two most important cities of Chambéry and Annecy, remained in France. Following Napoleon's brief return to power during the Hundred Days and subsequent defeat at Waterloo, the remaining one-third of Savoy was restored to the Kingdom of Sardinia at the Congress of Vienna to strengthen Sardinia as a buffer state on France's southeastern border.\n\nFrom 1815 until 1860, Savoy was part of the Kingdom of Sardinia.\n\nThe French Second Republic first attempted to annex Savoy in 1848. A corps of 1,500 was dispatched from Lyon and invaded Savoy on 3 April, occupying the capital, Chambéry, and proclaiming the annexation to France. On learning about the invasion countrymen rushed to Chambéry. The corps were chased away by the local population. Five Frenchmen were killed and 800 captured.\n\nOn July 21, 1858 in Plombières (Vosges) the prime minister of the Kingdom of Sardinia, Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour, met in secret with Napoleon III to secure French military support against the Austrian Empire during the conflicts associated with the Italian unification. During the discussion, Cavour promised that Sardinia would cede the County of Nice and Duchy of Savoy to the Second French Empire. Though this was a secret arrangement, it quickly became widely known.\n\nThe treaty annexing Nice and Savoy to France was signed in Turin on March 24, 1860 (Treaty of Turin). In the northern provinces of the Chablais and Faucigny, there was some support for annexation to neighboring Switzerland, with which the northern provinces had longstanding economic ties. To help reduce the attractiveness of Switzerland, the French government conceded a free-trade Zone that maintained the longstanding duty-free relationship of northern Savoyard communes to Geneva. The treaty was followed on April 22–23 by a plebiscite employing universal male suffrage, in which voters were offered the option of voting \"yes\" to approve the treaty and join France or rejecting the treaty with a no vote. The disallowed options of either joining Switzerland, remaining with Italy, or regaining its independence, were the source of some opposition. With a 99.8% vote in favour of joining France, there were allegations of vote-rigging, notably by the British government, which opposed continental expansion by its traditional French enemy.\n\nThe correspondent of \"The Times\" in Savoy who was in Bonneville on April 22 called the vote \"the lowest and most immoral farce(s) which was ever played in the history of nations\". He finished his letter with those words: I leave you to draw your own conclusions from this trip, which will show clearly what the vote was in this part of Savoy. The vote was the bitterest irony ever made on popular suffrage. The ballot-box in the hands of those very authorities who issued the proclamations; no control possible; even travellers suspected and dogged lest they should pry into the matter; all opposition put down by intimidation, and all liberty of action completely taken away. One can really scarcely reproach the Opposition with having given up the game; there was too great force used against them. As for the result of the vote, therefore, no one need trouble himself about it; it will be just as brilliant as that in Nice. The only danger is lest the Savoy authorities in their zeal should fare as some of the French did in the vote of 1852, finding to their surprise rather more votes than voters inscribed on the list. In his letter to the ambassador of Vienna Lord A. Loftus, the then-Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, John Russell, 1st Earl Russell, said, \"Voting in Savoy and Nice a farce ... we are neither entertained or edified\".\n\nThe annexation was promulgated on June 14, 1860. On August 23, 1860 and March 7, 1861, two agreements were signed between the Second French Empire and the Kingdom of Sardinia to settle the remaining issues concerning the annexation.\n\nIn 1919, France officially (but contrary to the annexation treaty) ended the military neutrality of the parts of the country of Savoy that had originally been agreed to at the Congress of Vienna, and also eliminated the free trade zone – both treaty articles having been broken unofficially in World War I. France was condemned in 1932 by the international court for noncompliance with the measures of the Treaty of Turin regarding the provinces of Savoy and Nice.\n\nIn 1960, the term \"annexation\" having acquired negative connotations in France, particularly after Germany's 1871 annexation of Alsace-Lorraine, the annexation was renamed \"Rattachement de la Savoie à la France\" (Incorporation of Savoy to France). It was the latter term which was used by the French authorities during the festivities celebrating the 100th anniversary of the annexation. Daniel Rops of the French Academy justified the new title with these words:\n\nSavoy has begun to solemnize the feasts in 1960, commemorating the centenary of its incorporation (\"rattachement\") to France. It is on purpose that the word incorporation (\"rattachement\") is highlighted here: the Savoyards attach great value to it, and it is the only one they have resolved to use in the official terminology of the Centenary. In that, they are infinitely right.\nYesterday another term that was used: annexation. Looking at it more closely it was wrong! Can we say annexation when we talk about a decision which was approved by 130,889 voters over 135,449? [...]. Savoy was not annexed [...] but actually incorporated freely and by the will of its inhabitants.\nA former French deputy, P. Taponnier, spoke of the annexation:\n\nIn late March 1860, the betrothal ceremony of Savoy to France took place in Tuileries Palace [...], a ceremony which was a pact of love and fidelity [...] it is with free consent that she [Savoy] gave itself to France by a solemn plebiscite of which our leaders can ignore neither the terms nor the commitments. [...] May the bells of our cities [...] in Savoy vibrate in unison to glorify, in this magnificent Centenary, the indefectible commitment of Savoy to France.\nThe Savoyards did not feel Italian. Besides, they spoke French. This explains why in 1858–1859 when rumours ran of the Plombières secret agreement, where Napoleon III and Cavour decided of the fate of Savoy, the Savoyards themselves took the initiative to ask for the incorporation (\"rattachement\"). [...] Incorporation, not annexation [...] The incorporation was an act of free will, in the logical order of geography and history [...].\n\nSince the mid-20th century, regionalist movements have appeared in Savoy much as in other historic provinces of France. The \"Mouvement Région Savoie\" (Savoy Regional Movement) was founded in December 1971 as a 'movement' (rather than a traditional political party) in favour of regional autonomy. Unlike other historic provinces, including Normandy and Brittany, Savoy does not currently have its own region within France and is part of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. In the 1996 local elections, the Savoy Regional Movement received 19,434 votes; it received 4,849 in the 1998 regional elections. A new non-party organisation, \"La Région Savoie, j’y crois !\" (\"I believe in the Savoy Region!\"), was founded in 1998. The organisation campaigns for the replacement of the Savoie and Haute-Savoie departments with a regional government, separate from the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, with greater devolved powers.\n\nA very marginal separatist movement has also appeared in Savoy within the past twenty years, most prominently represented by the \"Ligue Savoisienne\", founded in 1994. In the March 1998 regional elections, 1 seat (out of 23) was won by Patrice Abeille, leader of the Ligue, which won a total of 17,865 votes across the two departments. In 2004, \"Waiting for Freedom in Savoy\" was founded to promote the peaceful separatist cause to young people.\n\nAccording to surveys conducted in 2000, between 41% and 55% of the population were in favour of the proposal for a separate Savoy region, while 19% to 23% were in favour of separation from France. Towards the end of 2005, Hervé Gaymard called for Savoie to be given special status, similar to a French region, under his proposed \"Conseil des Pays de Savoie\".\n\nIn recent years, sparked by the tiny Savoyard separatist movement, much attention has been focused on questioning the validity of the 1860 annexation. The Ligue Savoisienne, for example, rejects the Treaty of Turin and subsequent plebiscite as null and void, arguing that the plebiscite did not meet the standards of a free and fair vote. Today, historians generally acknowledge that the plebiscite of 1860 did feature irregularities, but they also affirm that the annexation instrument was the Treaty of Turin and not the plebiscite, whose main purpose was to demonstrate favorable public opinion in Savoy for the annexation after the signature of the treaty. In an interview for the newspaper \"Le Dauphiné Libéré\", Sylvain Milbach, a historian at the University of Savoy, qualifies the vote as Napoleonic, but also argues that a completely free and fair vote would not have dramatically changed the outcome, as the majority of Savoyards wished to become French. This is today the official stance of the General Council of Savoie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54657509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54657509", "title": "Semanggi Interchange", "text": "Semanggi Interchange\n\nSemanggi Incerchange () is a major road junction in Jakarta, Indonesia which connects Central Jakarta, South Jakarta, East Jakarta and West Jakarta without any traffic lights. Semanggi intersection comprises the shape of a four-leaved cloverleaf (Semanggi in Indonesian). Two main roads of the city Gatot Subroto Road and Sudirman Road intersects at the Semanggi cloverleaf bridge. This is a landmark and an important arterial road in the Golden Triangle of Jakarta, an area of Jakarta’s business district.\n\nThis interchange was built in 1960s as part of infrastructure development for 1962 Asian Games. It was named as Semanggi (cloverleaf) by Soekarno with one bridge and four leaves symbolizing the unification of the territory of the city, as well as a symbol of Indonesian national unity. There is a myth in Ireland, that the four-leaf clover is a lucky clover that is believed to bring good luck. It is said that the area of Karet in Jakarta, where the interchange is located was the swamp that grew Semanggi (clover) plants. In 2015, Governor of Jakarta revealed a plan to build two elevated roads around the Semanggi cloverleaf in an attempt to reduce traffic congestion in the area, from Ratu Plaza in South Jakarta to Cawang in East Jakarta and from Grogol in West Jakarta to Kebayoran Baru in South Jakarta. The flyover is built above the existing Semanggi intersection in front of the well-known Semanggi shopping mall in South Jakarta. The elevated roads will cater to vehicles traveling from Grogol, West Jakarta to Senayan, South Jakarta, and from Sudirman (Central/South Jakarta) to Cawang, East Jakarta. The West-South ramp is 769 meters long (between 6 to 11 meters above ground level). The other ramp is approximately 826 meters long with a height of up to 11.5 meters. It was opened to traffic on 28 July, 2017.\n\nTaman Semanggi is a park located within leafs of Semanggi clover leaf bridge.The park has a land area of about 11 hectares. There are various type of tropical and as well as ornamental trees in the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "42797147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42797147", "title": "Slavia Friulana", "text": "Slavia Friulana\n\nSlavia Friulana, which means Friulian Slavia (or Beneška Slovenija in Slovenian), is a small mountainous region in northeastern Italy and it is so called because of its Slavic population which settled here in the 8th century AD. The territory is located in the Italian region of Friuli Venezia Giulia, between the town of Cividale del Friuli and the Slovenian border.\n\nThe term \"Slavia Friulana\" could possibly be used to refer to all Friulian territories with a Slavic presence, including the municipalities of Lusevera, Taipana, Torreano, Resia and the mountainous areas of the municipalities of Tarcento, Nimis, Attimis, Faedis, Prepotto and Montenars. Despite that, in the last decades the name has been used to indicate the area also known as \"Valli del Natisone\" (Natisone Valleys) which was called Antro in the Middle Ages and then Schiavonìa during the Venetian domination: nowadays, the area is divided into the municipalities of San Pietro al Natisone, San Leonardo, Pulfero, Drenchia, Grimacco, Stregna, Savogna.\n\nSince the beginning of the 8th century AD (c. 720), Slavic people settled in this area and in the Middle Ages they would have been called \"Sclavons\". In the early 16th century, the Venetian authorities dubbed this border region of their Republic as \"Schiavonia Veneta\", meaning \"Venetian Slav-land\". The Venetian words \"Schiavoni\" and \"Schiavonia\" were general terms used for all South Slavic peoples with which they came in direct contact, Slovenes as well as for Croats and Serbs from Dalmatia. In 1884 the local historian Carlo Podrecca named the area \"Slavia Italiana\", as well as Slovene nationalists in 1875 started to use the toponym \"Beneška Slovenija\" (Venetian Slovenia) or \"Benečija\" (which means \"Veneto\").\nAfter World War I, as soon as the Italian kingdom expanded its borders eastwards (including vast slavophone territories in Istria and in the so-called Habsburgic Illyrian kingdom), the region started to be commonly called \"Slavia Friulana\" instead of a generic \"Slavia Italiana\".\n\nIn the early 8th century Slavic tribes settled within the border of the Lombard Duchy of \"Forumiulii\". Paulus Diaconus, a Lombard historian at the court of Charlemagne, mentioned the local Slavs from the region in his magnum opus \"Historia Langobardorum\". They were incorporated into the Frankish Empire and Christianized maybe by missionaries from Aquileia, one of the most important centers of the Roman Catholic Church in Northern Italy. \n\nFrom the 9th century onward, the region belonged first to the Duchy of Friuli and later to the Patriarchate of Aquileia. In 1420 the Patriarchate of Aquileia was invaded by the Republic of Venice.\n\nThe Venetian authorities decided to absorb the \"gastaldia di Antro\" in the Cividale's one, but at the same time they gave the local Slavs a remarkable autonomy. In fact, the territory was structured in two co-valleys (Antro and Merso) represented by their people's assemblies called \"arenghi\"; each co-valley had also the right to elect its own judges and its own tribunals (\"banche\") whose judiciary power was extended in the villages that weren't object of feudal investitures; the whole Schiavonia had important tax benefits and the only military duties were to provide 200 men for the border defense against the neighbouring Habsburg Empire and fortify the near city of Cividale and the fortress of Palmanova as well. The ancient and commercial street of the Natisone valley, which connected the German world to the Adriatic sea and Italy, lost its importance soon afterwards the Habsburgs inherited the county of Gorizia (1500) and conquered the \"gastaldia\" of Tolmino (1516); the Austrians built another street passing along the border and this caused a heavy economic damage to the whole area which became much poorer than it was before.\n\nIn 1797, most of the Venetian Republic was annexed to the Habsburg Empire, including Schiavonia Veneta. The Habsburg authorities abolished the ancient privileges of the local Slav populations, as they had already done with a similar system of autonomy in neighboring Tolmin County in 1717. In 1805, the region was submitted to the Napoleonic rule, which did not restore the privileges, but replaced the old boroughs with French-style townships, led by government-appointed mayors. In 1813, the region fell again under Habsburg domain and in 1815 it was included in the Austrian administrative unit of Lombardy-Venetia. Most of the reforms introduced by the French authorities were kept. The local population fought bravely for Italian unity in 1848 and 1864. In 1866, the region became part of Italy by a referendum (won with 3687 votes against 1), with the exception of the villages of Breginj and Livek which were included in the Austrian County of Gorizia and Gradisca.\n\nThe Italian policy was aimed to improve the quality of life, local economy, education: in the first eighteen years, schools and streets were improved five times more than the Austrian domination lasted fiftythree years. The Italian language remained the official one as it was in the previous centuries (under Venice, France and Austria). The local population was considered made of \"Italians with a Slav origin\"; the local traditions were respected and there was the need to teach a common language to be understood in the whole State. During this period, the region became a major focus of historians, linguists and ethnologists, interested in its archaic customs, language and common law. Scholars who wrote about Slavia Friulana included the Italo-Slavs Carlo Podrecca and Francesco Musoni, the Polish linguist Jan Niecisław Baudouin de Courtenay, the Slovenes Simon Rutar and Henrik Tuma.\n\nAfter 1870, when Italy conquered Rome reducing the pope's territories to the Vatican City, also the Italo-Slav priests (which fought for the union to Italy in the precedent decades) started a hard political action against the new kingdom: for this reason they refused to consider themselves Italians but Slovenes. This trend became even more pronounced after the annexation of the Julian March to the Kingdom of Italy in 1920, when a large Slovene-speaking minority was included within the borders of the Italian state. The local politicians, instead, continued to support the Italian policy: this concerned both the conservatives and the progressives.\n\nAfter a dozen years of Fascist regime, all public and religious use of other languages were forbidden. This feature was further emphasized by the Slovene anti-fascist and nationalist propaganda (both left-wing and conservative-Catholic), which frequently portrayed the Slavia Friulana as the symbol of Slovene resistance to Fascist Italianization, often simplifying the complex linguistic and social realities of the region. The most famous, and filo Slovene, literary portrayal was written in 1938 by the Slovene writer France Bevk from Gorizia in his novel \"The Vicar Martin Čedermac\" (\"Kaplan Martin Čedermac\").\n\nDuring World War II the Slovene partisan resistance, led by the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People, penetrated in the region. The Kobarid Republic was established as a temporary administration after the Italian armistice in early September 1943. \n\nIn early November 1943, the Nazi German forces crushed the insurgency, and incorporated the whole area into the Operational Zone Adriatic Coast. In 1944, the Italian resistance movement also became active in the mountains of Slavia Friulana. Tensions between the Yugoslav (Slovene) and Italian resistance movements rose. The Liberation Front of the Slovenian People wanted to annex the region to a Yugoslav Communist federation, while the Italian resistance was split between the Communists who partially supported the Yugoslav claims, and the Liberal-democratic who wanted Slavia Friulana to remain part of Italy. \n\nIn February 1945, the Porzus massacre occurred, in which the communist and filo-Yugoslav Italian partisans killed several members of the Italian liberal-democratic resistance members. In May 1945 the whole area was invaded by the Yugoslav People's Army, which however withdrew a few weeks later after the British arrival. Liberal-democratic-catholic partisans, members of the Royal Army and the defeated fascist soldiers joined up together to fight the communists and the Yugoslavs.\n\nIn 1945, Slavia Friulana again became an integral part of Italy. It was included in the region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Between 1945 and 1947, Slavia Friulana was a region on the border with the Communist Bloc, and it was listed as a special operational zone of Gladio, a clandestine NATO \"stay-behind\" operation in Italy after World War II, intended to counter a possible Warsaw Pact invasion of Western Europe. The activists of Gladio were mostly local members of the \"Alpini\" troops.\n\nIn the following decades, the presence of a militarized border didn't allow an economic and infrastructural development and this situation caused a widespread emigration during the same period. Europe's ideological division ignited in this area an ethnic one: local communists continued to support the Yugoslav socialist regime claiming the recognition of a Slovene minority; also a few priests continued to identify the population as Slovene. On the other hand, some locals consider themselves as Italo-slavs or nedižouci (inhabitants of the Natisone valley; singular: nedižovac) and rečanji (inhabitants of the Alberone, Erbezzo and Cosizza valleys; singular: rečanj). They claim to speak nediško, with ethnical differences by the Slovene neighbours. Although Yugoslavia started its dissolution after Josip Broz Tito died in 1980 and the cold war ended in 1989, this ethnic debate hasn't been cleared yet and it's still caged within an ideological contest. \n\nMany of the villages lost more than two thirds of their populations, as Slavs from Friulian Slavia moved to larger urban areas in Northern Italy, Switzerland, Belgium and Germany. In May and September 1976, two earthquakes hit Friuli, causing large scale damages.\n\nAlthough the area was largely depopulated after 1977, the political pressure was lifted after the Treaty of Osimo between Italy and Yugoslavia, but with no economic improvement. Anyway, Slovene cultural activities started to take place in the early 1980s. In the early 1990s, the first elementary and high school in Slovene language was established in San Pietro al Natisone, and in 2001, the Italian state recognized the local population as a Slovene minority living in the area, guaranteeing it full rights but ignoring the claims of those who consider themselves as non-Slovene. After Slovenia's entry into the European Union in 2004, the relations between the Slavia Friulana and the bordering Goriška region have intensified.\n\nMost people in Slavia Friulana (considering the whole slavophone area) speak four different Slovene dialects, named after the major valleys that form those territories: first of all the Natisone Valley dialect, the Torre Valley dialect, the Resian dialect and the Iudrio Valleys. The first three are closely related to each other and Resian, instead, has its own peculiar characteristics. On the other hand, the Slovene spoken in the province of Gorizia is part of the Littoral dialect group.\n\nAlmost all of the inhabitants are fluent in Italian, which is taught in schools and present in the media and in the administration. Friulian is also widespread, especially in the municipalities of Montenars, Tarcento, Nimis, Attimis, Torreano, and Prepotto; in many villages in these municipalities, the Friulian language has already replaced Slav as the first language of communication. Because of the lack of education in the local Slav languages, most of the inhabitants do not master the standard Slovene language. Many don't understand it either, especially in the areas where the Slovenian TV and radio are not accessible, since standard Slovene is not entirely intelligible with the languages spoken in the region. They are however partially intelligible with the neighbouring Slovene dialects spoken in the Slovenian Littoral, especially the Soča and Brda dialects, which actually were parts of the ancient Venetian Schiavonia and annexed to Habsburgs' county of Gorizia in the early 19th century.\n\nThe vast majority of the people belong to the Roman Catholic Church and the religion plays an important role in the local culture. The Roman Catholic priests have traditionally been the most important promoters of the Slovene language and culture in Slavia Friulana. Anyway, the linguistic matter hasn't been clarified yet. In the late 19th century, the polish linguist Jan Baudouin de Courtenay considered the four local languages as different Slav ones, rich of Paleoslav archaisms which make them often sound closer to Serb. He classified the four friulian Slavs groups as those of: Resia valley, Torre valleys, Natisone valleys and Judrio valleys.\n\nIn the last decades some local politicians have been asking for a popular referendum concerning the self-ethnic definition of these people, but the project has never been possible to carry out because it has been boycotted by the most ideologized groups. The referendum itself has been recently demanded by the European Union and in the meanwhile the first scientific studies about local languages have finally been published for a transparent debate.\n\nSlavia Friulana is famous for its rich folk traditions. Numerous folk and ethno music bands come from the region, and many of them are extremely popular throughout Slovenia and the Friuli Venezia Giulia. The most famous of these bands are probably the \"Beneški fantje\" (\"Venetian Lads\"), which are considered to be oldest still existing Slovene band. Besides its archaic traditional music and dances, the Resia valley is also famous for its folk tales, which were edited and translated into standard Slovene language by the Slovene scholar Milko Matičetov and published by the largest publishing house in Slovenia, Mladinska knjiga, in 1976. They have been re-published in eight editions since, and have had a huge impact in popularizing the Friulian Slav folk culture in Slovenia.\n\nSince the late 1980s, Slavia Friulana has also emerged as one of the major centres of high quality Slovene dialect poetry. The most famous poets from the region are Silvana Paletti, Francesco Bergnach and Marina Cernetig.\n\nSince 1994, the artistic project \"Stazione di Topolò - Postaja Topolove\" or \"Topolò Station\" takes place every summer in the small village of Topolò (, known as \"Topolove\" or \"Topoluove\" in the local dialect). The project, which is the most important cultural and artistic event in the region, is an attempt to bring together contemporary visual art with and the local folk traditions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27579172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27579172", "title": "Southern African Sand Forest", "text": "Southern African Sand Forest\n\nSouthern African Sand Forest is a sand forest, or a subtropical forest ecoregion of the Tropical and subtropical dry broadleaf forests Biome. It grows on ancient sand dunes in northern KwaZulu-Natal and southern Mozambique. In South Africa these forests are known simply as Sand Forest, while in Mozambique they are known as Licuati Forest.\n\nSand forests are thought to be relics of coastal dune forests, which have been separated from the ocean for more than a million years as the shoreline has shifted slowly eastwards over the millennia. Dunes have accreted on the southeast African coastal plain since the Pliocene, and frequent sand mobilization events during climatic changes have resulted in some reworking of the dunes. The geological history of the region suggests that the current ecosystems here may be of recent derivation and many endemic plant taxa comply with the concept of neo-endemics (recent locally evolved species), and biological evolution (notably speciation) is still in an active phase.\n\nOf the 225 Maputaland Centre plant endemic species, 30 are associated with sand forest and 20 are restricted to this vegetation type. Species typical of moist forests, such as ferns and mosses are scarce, and the activities of termites appear to limit the accumulation of leaf litter. Sand forest has a distinct boundary and also exhibits a narrow zone of 1–2 m of nearly bare soil directly bordering it. There are indications that sand forest has allelopathic effects which may bring about this zone of inhibition and this aids in limiting fires spreading from the neighboring savannah into the forest; creating a unique environment for itself.\nList references\n\n"}
{"id": "50186009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50186009", "title": "The Vanished People", "text": "The Vanished People\n\nThe Vanished People is a 1955 historical book by Ion Idriess. It tells stories of northern Australia and New Guinea, including the saga of Mary Watson in 1881.\n\n"}
{"id": "5696235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5696235", "title": "Threshold population", "text": "Threshold population\n\nIn microeconomics, a threshold population is the minimum number of people needed for a service to be worthwhile.\n\nIn geography, a threshold population is the minimum number of people necessary before a particular good or service can be provided in an area. The concept is equivalent to the \"range\" in central place theory and retailing, which delineates the market area of a central place for a particular good or service, and is dependent on the spatial distribution of population and the willingness of consumers to travel a given distance to purchase particular goods or services.\n\nTypically a low-order shop (such as a grocer or newsagent) may require only 800 or so customers, whereas a higher-order store such as Marks and Spencer or Waitrose may need a threshold of 70,000 to be profitable, and a university may need 350,000 to be viable.\n\nThresholds may also be linked to the spending power of customers; this is most obvious in periodic markets in poor countries, where wages are so low that people can buy the goods or services only once in a while.\n"}
{"id": "22315372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22315372", "title": "UNOSAT", "text": "UNOSAT\n\nUNOSAT was established in 2001 as an operational, technology-intensive programme of the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR). UNOSAT provides satellite imagery analysis and capacity development to the UN system, UN member states, and its partners. The programme's work supports evidence-based decision making for peace, security and resilience. UNOSAT products are used in response to humanitarian crises and for implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.\n\nThe UNOSAT team is mainly composed of GIS and imagery analysts, remote sensing experts, geologists, hydrogeologists and hydrologists, supported by IT engineers, programmers, and management experts.\n\nUNOSAT is headquartered at The European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) in Geneva, Switzerland with regional presence in Bangkok, Nairobi and N’Djamena.\n\n"}
{"id": "49175544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49175544", "title": "Vallée d'Osterlog", "text": "Vallée d'Osterlog\n\nVallée d'Osterlog or Osterlog Valley is a botanical garden of Mauritian endemic species and a rehabilitated indigenous forest, situated in Le Val, in the south-east of Mauritius.\n\nIt was founded on the 11 June 2014.\n\nThe 275 hectare garden & forest is located in the region of Le Val, near Le Val Nature Park in the south-east of the island. It is in the Creole Mountain range, specifically between Mount Lagrave and Mount Laselle. It also lies almost exactly on the border of two districts - that of Grand Port and Moka. It is reached by road from Le Saint, Hubert Village. The offices of the Vallée d'Osterlog Endemic Garden Foundation are in Wooton, Eau Coulée. \n"}
{"id": "20391100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20391100", "title": "Walt Disney's Funny Factory", "text": "Walt Disney's Funny Factory\n\nWalt Disney's Funny Factory is a series of DVDs by Walt Disney Home Video. Very similar to the \"Walt Disney's Classic Cartoon Favorites\" line, each release would feature around one-hour of \"Disney\" animated short films, grouped by a starring character, or set of characters. As opposed to the chronological nature of the \"Walt Disney Treasures\" line, each release would feature various cartoons in no particular order. The series featured two waves of releases, on January 17, 2006 and November 21, 2006.\n\nThe first wave of releases came on January 17, 2006.\n\nAll of the shorts on here feature Mickey Mouse.\n\nAll of the shorts on here feature Donald Duck.\n\nThe first wave of releases came on November 21, 2006.\n\nAll of the shorts on here feature Goofy.\n\nAll of the shorts on here feature Huey, Dewey, and Louie.\n"}
{"id": "50918097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50918097", "title": "White Rage", "text": "White Rage\n\nWhite Rage: The Unspoken Truth of Our Racial Divide is a 2016 non-fiction book written by Emory University professor Carol Anderson. It looks into how whiteness functions in American life and how the legacy of structural racism has brought about white anger and resentment. Anderson was contracted to write the book following reaction to an op-ed she wrote for \"The Washington Post\" in 2014.\n\n\"White Rage\" became a New York Times Best Seller, and was listed as a notable book of 2016 by \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Boston Globe\", and the \"Chicago Review of Books\". \"White Rage\" was also listed by \"The New York Times\" as an Editors' Choice, and won the 2016 National Book Critics Circle Award for Criticism.\n\nAt the January 2017 confirmation hearing for Republican Senator Jeff Sessions, candidate for U.S. Attorney General, Democratic Senator Dick Durbin offered Sessions a copy of \"White Rage\", saying \"I'm hoping he'll take a look at it\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1912705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912705", "title": "Yibal", "text": "Yibal\n\nYibal is the largest oilfield in Oman. It began production in 1968, and at its peak had a production of nearly . In recent years, it has begun to decline, and in 2005 produces about . The Yibal oil field is operated primarily by Petroleum Development Oman.\n"}
{"id": "1872746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1872746", "title": "Zeugma, Commagene", "text": "Zeugma, Commagene\n\nZeugma () is an ancient city of Commagene; located in modern Gaziantep Province, Turkey. It was named for the bridge of boats, or \"zeugma\", that crossed the Euphrates river at that location.\n\nOriginally, the ancient city of Zeugma was founded as a Greek settlement by Seleucus I Nicator, one of the generals of Alexander the Great, in 300 BC. The city was called \"Zeugma\", because of the bridge across the Euphrates River that was made of pontoons, thus connecting the two banks of the river. In Greek, \"zeugma\" means “bridge” or “crossing”. The ancient term Zeugma actually referred to the twin cities on the opposing banks of the river. Today the name Zeugma is usually understood to refer to the settlement on the west bank, called Seleucia on the Euphrates () after the founder, while the one on the East bank was called Apamea after his Persian wife Apama. The population of the city at its peak was approximately 80,000.\n\nIn 64 BC the city was conquered and ruled by the Roman Empire. During Roman rule, the city became one of the attractions in the region, due to its commercial potential originating from its geo-strategic location because the city was on the Silk Road connecting Antioch to China via a bridge of pontoons across the river Euphrates, which defined the border with the Persian Empire until the late 2nd century.\n\nIn 256 AD, Zeugma experienced an invasion and was destroyed by the Sassanid king, Shapur I. The damage from the invasion was so drastic that Zeugma was not able to recover for a long time. To make the situation even worse, a violent earthquake buried the city beneath rubble. Indeed, during the rest of its time under Roman rule, the city never regained the prosperity it had once achieved.\n\nZeugma and environs remained part of the Roman empire. During the 5th and 6th centuries the city was ruled by the Early Byzantium or Eastern Roman Empire. As a result of the ongoing Arab raids the city was abandoned once again. Later on, in the 10th and 12th centuries, a small Abbasid group settled in Zeugma.\n\nFinally a village called \"Belkis\" was founded at the site in the 17th century.\n\nDuring the era of Imperial Rome, the Legio IV \"Scythica\" was camped in Zeugma. For about two centuries the city was home to many soldiers, high-ranking officials and officers of the Roman Empire, who transferred their cultural understanding and sophisticated lifestyle into the region. As a result, a Roman artistic character is seen in the necropolis sculpture: samples of beautiful art appear in the stelae, rock reliefs, statues, and altars. This unique trend in sculpture and art became a well-recognized regional style. Zeugma became considerably rich, owing to the economy created by soldiers in the legion. Moreover, a thriving trade moved across a wooden bridge connecting Zeugma to the city of Apamea on the other side of the Euphrates. Current excavations have revealed a large customs facility and indications of considerable border trade.\n\nThe proof for this assumption came in the excavations carried out in “Iskele üstü”. In this site, 65,000 seal imprints in clay, known as \"bullae\", were found in what is believed to have served as the archives for the customs of ancient Zeugma. The seal imprints used in sealing papyrus, parchment, moneybags, and customs bales reflect the volume of trade, the density of transportation, and the communication network once established in the region.\n\nIn 1987 the Gaziantep Museum excavated two tomb chambers that had been broken into by antiquity smugglers in the necropolis southwest of Zeugma, revealing frescos on the walls and statues on the terraces in front of the chambers. These statues are now in the Gaziantep Museum of Archaeology. In 1992 the watchman at the site, Nusret Özdemir, reported renewed illegal activity here, and a trench dug by antiquity hunters was discovered in the centre of the city. Excavations commenced on the same spot by a team from Gaziantep Museum led by director Rifat Ergeç, uncovered a Roman villa and magnificent mosaic pavements. The 1st century AD villa consisted of galleries around an atrium with eight columns and rooms behind the galleries. The mosaic that adorned the villa's gallery depicted the marriage of Dionysus, god of wine and grapes, to Ariadne. Six of the ten figures portrayed in this mosaic were stolen on 15 June 1998.\n\nIn further excavations here, part of the central panel of the mosaic pavement belonging to the terrace of another villa turned out to have been stolen long since, probably around 1965. The two figures are missing from the knees upward. The missing mosaic fragment later was found to be in the Menil Collection at Rice University in the city of Houston. The two figures seated side by side in this mosaic are the two legendary lovers, Metiochos and Parthenope. At the request of the Turkish Ministry of Culture, the stolen fragment was returned, and now the complete mosaic may be seen in Gaziantep Museum.\n\nWhen mosaic fragments were discovered during construction of the Birecik Dam wall that commenced in 1996, Gaziantep Museum had the work halted while excavations were carried out that revealed a Roman bath, gymnasium, and 36 mosaic panels which were added to the museum collection. In 1997, on the clay quarry area in front of the dam wall a large Bronze Age cemetery was discovered and excavated. Nearly eight thousand pottery vessels were found in 320 graves going back to the early Bronze Age. The museum staff worked unceasingly through the winter 1998–1999, uncovering such important and beautiful finds as the Akratos and Gypsy Girl Mosaic and 65,000 bullae in an archive room at İskeleüstü, making Gaziantep Museum possessor of the largest collection of bullae in the world.\n\nIn 1999, in a building within the lower quarter of the city, mosaics depicting the head of Dionysus and Oceanus and Tethys with sea creatures were discovered. From 1996 onward, with the threat of being submerged under the waters of the new dam, salvage excavations were carried out by C. Abadie Reynal of Nantes University in France, together with archaeologists from Gaziantep and Şanlıurfa museums. In 1999 a mosaic pavement depicting the mythological Minos bull was discovered at Mezarliküstü, and at the end of the excavation season, further mosaics were visible at the thresholds of other rooms. Not wishing to leave the mosaics at the mercy of the treasure hunters who are so active in the area, the acting director of Gaziantep Museum, Fatma Bulgan, decided to continue excavations through the winter months. Despite difficult weather conditions they went on to uncover a fountain with its own tank at a depth of three metres, a marble figure of Apollo, as well as, another mosaic pavement with nine figures depicting Achilles being taken by Odysseus to fight in the Trojan War.\n\nAlso during salvage excavations under Mehmet Önal, an archaeologist from Gaziantep Museum, two more Roman villas were uncovered. These villas, which stood side by side, were burned and razed by the Sassanids in 252. The fact that they lay under three metres of rubble had protected them from treasure hunters. Their frescos, mosaics, and other artifacts were almost completely intact. A bronze statue of Mars, which aroused increased media interest in Zeugma, was found amongst storage jars in the larder of one of the villas. Altogether seventeen mosaic pavements have been revealed in the villas, whose walls were decorated with colourful frescoes.\n\nExcavations of Zeugma have been divided into three areas, initial priority being given to salvage and documentation in Zone A, which sank under the dam waters in early July. Work then moved on to Zone B, which was scheduled for submersion in October 2000 when the dam water reached its maximum level of 385 metres. Zone C, on the other hand, consists of the higher parts of the city that will not be affected by the new dam.\n\nA Zeugma excavation project conducted by Oxford Archaeology and supported by the Packard Humanities Institute of Los Altos, California and the Ministry of Culture of Turkey, has unearthed three more ancient Greek mosaics in Zeugma. Oxford Archaeology also issued a 2013 report on the project.\n\n\n\n"}
