{"id": "46530266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46530266", "title": "1911 Brigham Young University modernism controversy", "text": "1911 Brigham Young University modernism controversy\n\nThe 1911 modernism controversy at Brigham Young University was an episode involving four professors at Brigham Young University (BYU), who between 1908 and 1911 widely taught evolution and higher criticism of the Bible, arguing that modern scientific thought was compatible with Christian and Mormon theology. The professors were popular among students and the community but their teachings concerned administrators, and drew complaints from stake presidents, eventually resulting in the resignation of all four faculty members, an event that \"leveled a serious blow to the academic reputation of Brigham Young University—one from which the Mormon school did not fully recover until successive presidential administrations.\"\n\nIn 1907, BYU president George H. Brimhall began hiring a new group of faculty to increase the academic reputation of his school. Joseph Peterson was hired to teach psychology, and his brother Henry Peterson hired as the director of the College of Education. Joseph Peterson was the first Ph.D on the faculty of BYU. In 1908 and 1909 Brimhall hired Ralph Vary Chamberlin and his brother William Henry Chamberlin, to teach biology and philosophy, respectively. The Chamberlin and Peterson brothers, while devout Mormons, actively sought to increase the intellectual atmosphere of the university and community, facilitating discussion and debates on evolution and the Bible, and sought to convey that evolutionary ideas and Mormon theology were not mutually exclusive, but rather complementary. Horace H. Cummings, the superintendent of the church schools, felt especially that teaching religion from non-Mormon sources and teaching evolution was contrary to Latter-Day Saint teachings. The four instructors' courses were popular among students and other faculty, but university and church officials accused the professors of promoting heretical views, and in 1911 offered the Petersons and Ralph Chamberlin a choice: alter their teachings or lose their jobs. Privately, Joseph B. Keeler told Ralph Chamberlin he could stay, but he refused, as the Petersons weren't given the same offer.\n\nThis ignited a great deal of controversy in the school and surrounding community. The students of BYU overwhelmingly supported the professors, and a petition of support signed by at least 80% of the student body was submitted to BYU officials and reprinted in the \"Salt Lake Tribune\", Salt Lake City's largest secular newspaper. Unwilling to change their teachings, the Petersons and Ralph Chamberlin left the university in 1911, while William remained for another 5 years, resigning in 1916.\n\nThe loss of the faculty represented an intellectual loss to the university, and a stifling effect on students as well as faculty. Milton Bennion, writing in March 1911, called the conflict the most significant event in Utah's recent educational history. Ann Weaver Hart wrote that the 1911 BYU controversy made Utah comparatively less emotional and reactionary than other parts of the country during the 1925 Scopes Monkey Trial.\n\nAt the University of Utah in Salt Lake City a similar controversy — what some at the time described as 'a tempest in a teapot' — erupted four years later in February 1915. There, the dismissals of two professors and two instructors by President Joseph T. Kingsbury — and the subsequent resignations of 14 faculty members in protest — launched the American Association of University Professors' first institutional academic freedom inquest, spearheaded by AAUP founders Arthur O. Lovejoy and John Dewey. The 1911 BYU controversy — involving some of the same professors, including the Peterson brothers and the Chamberlins — led in part to the University of Utah debacle.\n\nAs a result of these intertwined academic storms, the AAUP published, in December 1915, its inaugural volume of the Bulletin of the American Association of University Professors, including the document now known as the 1915 Declaration of Principles on Academic Freedom and Academic Tenure — the AAUP’s foundational statement on the rights and corresponding obligations of members of the academic profession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38658032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38658032", "title": "Al Kamandjâti", "text": "Al Kamandjâti\n\nAl Kamandjâti is a nonprofit organization that is offering music lessons to Palestinian children, and had given them a chance to make their appearances in orchestras in the region and some European countries. The organization has its seat in Ramallah.\n\nThe organization focuses on children in refugee camps and in villages on the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and Southern Lebanon. The goal of the organization is to have children discover cultural heritage in general and develop creative skills, so they are kept away from throwing stones and acquiring violent habits.\n\nAl Kamandjâti was founded in France in October 2002 by violist Ramzi Aburedwan. He was inspired doing so when he was still a boy, because his little friend had been killed by Israeli soldiers. As a reaction he threw back stones, of which photographs were made that were shown all over the world.\n\nIn 2006 the organization was honored with a Prince Claus Award from the Netherlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "24920573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24920573", "title": "Ambassadorial Scholarships", "text": "Ambassadorial Scholarships\n\nAmbassadorial Scholarships (founded 1947) was a program of the Rotary Foundation. The program ended in 2013. From 1947 to 2013, nearly 38,000 men and women from about 100 nations studied abroad under its auspices.\n\nThe purpose of the Ambassadorial Scholarships program was to further international understanding and friendly relations among people of different countries and geographical areas. The program sponsored several types of scholarships for undergraduate and graduate students as well as for qualified professionals pursuing vocational studies. While abroad, scholars served as goodwill ambassadors to the host country and gave presentations about their homelands to Rotary clubs and other groups. Upon returning home, scholars shared with Rotarians and others the experiences that led to a greater understanding of their host country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41406101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41406101", "title": "Award in Education and Training", "text": "Award in Education and Training\n\nThe Award in Education and Training is an initial teacher training qualification, studied at QCF Level 3, for teaching in Further Education (FE) and the lifelong learning sector of education in the United Kingdom. Study for the Award in Education and Training typically precedes the completion of the Certificate in Education and Training at QCF Level 4 and the Diploma in Education and Training at QCF Level 5. The Award in Education and Training replaces the Preparing to Teach in the Lifelong Learning Sector.\n"}
{"id": "4776538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4776538", "title": "Azerbaijan International University", "text": "Azerbaijan International University\n\nAzerbaijan International University () was a private university located in Baku, Azerbaijan. Founded in 1997, it had more than 6000 students and 268 faculty. Graduate programs included Schools of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacology, Economics, Education, Law etc.\n\nThe university granted bachelor's, master's and Ph.D degrees. It was a corresponding member of International Personnel Academy of UNESCO (Kiev) in 1999. The president of University Dr. Elshad Islam Abdullayev was awarded the Gold Medal of UNESCO \"For his achievements in the field of education.\" On 30 August 2010, the Ministry of Education issued a decree annulling the license of the Azerbaijan International University.\n\nIn 2006, the Attorney General's Office announced it had received reports of corruption taking place in the Azerbaijan International University which marked the beginning of a four-year-long criminal case. An official of the Ministry of Education announced on 24 June 2008 that law violations had been detected following an investigation and seven programs of study had been shut down. In May 2008, the student football team of the university was excluded from the all-state amateur student football championship for submitting forged student transcripts and identification cards for the players who in fact were not registered students of the Azerbaijan International University. In August 2008, the then Minister of Education Misir Mardanov voiced concerns over the functioning procedures of the university, namely its alleged student admission in contravention of the official state admission examination. Head of the State Students Admission Commission Maleyka Abbaszadeh confirmed that a preliminary investigation revealed 118 bachelor's students who had been admitted first-hand by the university in one year alone without being put through a unified state exam. Two high-ranking employees of the university responsible for student admission were charged with bribery. They admitted in court that they had accepted bribes from prospective students ranging from 1,000 to 5,000 US dollars to admit them in the university. The university was barred from admitting new students in 2009 and 2010, due to the \"results of the past investigations.\" Finally on 30 August 2010, the Ministry of Education issued a decree annulling the license of the Azerbaijan State University. All remaining students were transferred to nine other institutions. Rector Elshad Abdullayev disagreed with the Ministry's decision, claiming that the university had received a four-year license in 2007 and that it could not have been simply revoked, but only expire.\n\nLawyer Aslan Ismayilov who offered his free services to the former AIU students who had been legally admitted and were willing to transfer to other universities described the Azerbaijan International University as a \"disgrace to education.\" He expressed an opinion that the corruption activities of Elshad Abdullayev had been well known but concealed due to his \"good connections.\"\n\nIn 2010, Ukrainian authorities reported that a criminal investigation of cases of illegal organ transplantation involving citizens of Ukraine and Azerbaijan pointed at the Azerbaijan International University Medical Centre. A joint investigation carried out by Azerbaijani and Ukrainian authorities revealed that ten unlicensed surgeries were carried out by Ukrainian doctors in the centre in 2009, during which kidneys were purchased and transplanted from Azerbaijani and Ukrainian donors to foreigners. Seven people in total were charged with human trafficking, criminal group formation and illegal transplantation, one of them former head of the AIU Medical Centre. The Azerbaijan Attorney General's Office discovered documents confirming identities of the organ donors and recipients.\n\n"}
{"id": "37870261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37870261", "title": "CLUSTER", "text": "CLUSTER\n\nConsortium Linking Universities of Science and Technology for Education and Research (CLUSTER) is a collection of twelve European universities which focus on science and engineering. There are joint programs and student exchanges held between the universities.\n\nThe participating universities are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1117480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1117480", "title": "Chartered Institute of Management Accountants", "text": "Chartered Institute of Management Accountants\n\nThe Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) is a UK based professional body offering training and qualification in management accountancy and related subjects. It is focused on accountants working in industry, and provides ongoing support and training for members.\n\nCIMA is one of the professional associations for accountants in the UK and Ireland. Its particular emphasis is on developing the management accounting profession. CIMA is the largest management accounting body in the world with 281,467 students and CGMAs 106,095 of which are members in 2017. CIMA is also a member of the International Federation of Accountants.\n\nCIMA, was formed in March 1919, as the Institute of Cost and Works Accountant, by a group of legal professionals and businessmen who wanted to develop an approach to accounting that would meet the demands of a rapidly changing business world. Industrialisation had led to large scale, complex businesses providing unprecedented challenges in management. Employers needed a new form of in-house accountant to provide, in addition to accounts, better analysis of cost and of operations to inform performance management. The new institute soon gained the backing of leading industrialists including, Lord Leverhulme who became its president.\n\nAdvances in technology and globalisation made business ever more complex over the 20th century and the role of the accountant in business became more significant. It expanded to include provision of a wider range of information and the emphasis shifted from accounting to management. \n\nThe status of management accounting as a distinct branch of the accounting profession was recognised by the granting of a Royal Charter in 1975. \n\nCIMA operates a standard scheme of qualifying examinations for prospective members. It promotes local education, training and management development operations, and new techniques through its research foundation and the dissemination of management accounting practices through publications and other media related activities. CIMA has been active in recent educational and vocational initiatives in former Eastern bloc countries. It publishes a monthly journal, supplied free to members and registered students, called 'Financial Management'.\n\nCIMA is recognised as a professional accounting body for various statutory purposes by UK and various overseas governments. The institute regulates the activities of its members by a code of practice, a discipline committee and a continuing professional development education scheme. Its governing body is its council, comprising members elected from regional branches. Each of the branches has a committee and is responsible for much of the 'grass roots' activity. Activity such as qualification development is undertaken from the London head office.\n\nIn 2011 CIMA left CCAB. <http://www.cimaglobal.com/Pages-that-we-will-need-to-bring-back/Old-site-pages1/Old-site-pages/About-us/Press-office/Press-releases/2011/March-2011/CIMA-withdraws-from-the-CCAB/>\n\nIn 2012, CIMA and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants created the CGMA® designation (Chartered Global Management Accountant). The designation recognises the most talented and committed management accountants with the discipline and skill to drive strong business performance. The CGMA is the most widely held management accounting designation in the world with more than 150,000 designees it is educationally equivalent to a master’s degree. The designation is built on extensive global research to maintain the highest relevance with employers and develop the competencies most in demand. CGMA® professionals are business strategists who can link the board’s objectives and the rest of your organisation, guiding critical business decisions and creating sustainable business success. \n\nIn 2014 CIMA, with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, launched the Global Management Accounting Principles (Principles). The Principles were endorsed by UK business leaders including: Mr Ian king Chief Executive, BAE Systems and Howard Orme, Director General, Finance & Commercial, Department for Business Innovation & Skills. www.ft.com. The CGMA Competency Framework was also launched in 2014. The framework shows the range of technical, accounting and finance skills that management accountants need to do their jobs and consists of four knowledge areas: Technical Skills, Business Skills, People Skills and Leadership Skills all underpinned by Ethics, Integrity and Professionalism.\n\nIn 2016 CIMA, sponsored the creation of the world’s first management accounting standard: PAS 1919:2016 Guide to management accounting principles. The standard, published by the British Standards Institute codifies a universal framework for best practice in decision making. Organisations including, Sky, The EnvironmentAgency, Fujitsu, the NHS and Siemens had input into its development. It is designed as a best-practice guide to management accounting, allowing organisations to benchmark their finance function and to unlock the full contribution that management accountancy can make. The specification is based on the Global Management Accounting Principles, created in 2014 by CIMA and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. \n\nIn 2017, members of CIMA and AICPA formed the Association of International Certified Professional Accountants to unite and strengthen the accounting profession globally. Representing an influential network of more than 667,000 members and students in management and public accounting, the Association prepares accountants for today’s challenges and tomorrow’s opportunities. \n\nCIMA has two grades of full membership:\n\nTo be admitted as an Associate, a candidate must have: \n\nTo become a Fellow, a candidate ACMA must, in addition, have appropriate experience at a senior level.\n\nIn the past, CIMA has offered forms of association which do not amount to full membership, for example an \"Affiliate\" membership class was promoted in the 1970s.\n\nCIMA members have access to a number of strategic alliances, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1119205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1119205", "title": "Codrington College", "text": "Codrington College\n\nCodrington College is an Anglican theological college in St. John, Barbados.\n\nThe college was founded with funds from the bequest of Christopher Codrington, who after his death in 1710 left portions of his sugar cane estates – the Codrington Plantations as well as land on Barbados and Barbuda to the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts to establish a college in Barbados. Construction was started in 1714, and the college was eventually opened on 9 September 1745.\n\nIt initially provided a general education but began to teach advanced studies as early as 1748; this served as a preparatory education before the students – usually sons of the local gentry – went to an English university. The first graduate was ordained in 1759.\n\nThomas Moody, a member of a prominent British family of\nBritish imperialists, served as mathematics master, writing master, and Assistant Headmaster of Codrington College \nfrom 1797 to 1805.\n\nIn 1830 the College began exclusively to train students for ordination. This marked it as one of the first theological colleges of the Anglican Church; only St. David's College Lampeter, the General Theological Seminary and Virginia Theological Seminary pre-date it, while Chichester Theological College, the first such college in England, was only opened in 1839. In 1831 the site was almost completely destroyed by a hurricane, but was rebuilt.\n\nIn 1875, the college became affiliated to the University of Durham, which awarded degrees to Codrington graduates until 1958; it then affiliated to the University of the West Indies in 1965. Following the Durham affiliation, Codrington began to offer degrees in classics as well as theology, but has concentrated on theological studies since 1955. For a while, it was run by the brothers of the Community of the Resurrection. It began to offer post-graduate courses in 1989.\n\nThe college currently maintains several archives relating to the churches of the West Indies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5916948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5916948", "title": "College of Business Administration (CBA)", "text": "College of Business Administration (CBA)\n\nThe Institute of Business Administration was established in 2000 as a private institute for business and commerce studies. It became the College of Business Administration (CBA) in 2003. It is now known as the University of Business and Technology.\n\nThe objectives ate given in \n\nCBA is accredited by the Saudi Ministry of Higher Education.\nIn June 2012, UBT was awarded the National Accreditation NCAAA (National Commission for Academic Accreditation and Assessment). CBA is the first private college in Saudi Arabia that is working towards the Institutional and Programs accreditation from the NCAAA for the period May 2010 to May 2014 for the following five programs:\n\nCBA did not apply for accrediting supply chain management program since \"the students had not graduated from the program yet\", as announced by Dr. Abdullah Dahlan (board of trustees, chairman).\n\n\nThe college offers bachelor of business administration (BBA) degrees with the following specializations:\n"}
{"id": "28374801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28374801", "title": "Dago dazzler", "text": "Dago dazzler\n\nA dago dazzler is an elaborately decorated document used to identify its bearer, usually an academic, as someone with an official association with an institution, usually a university or college, with the purpose of impressing low-level bureaucrats, usually of a foreign nation, so that they will allow the bearer to gain access to archived material or to perform some other action. \n\nThe document is given more than the usual amount of decoration—often with colored ribbons and shiny seals—solely for the purpose of impressing bureaucrats. The term, used by academics and sometimes by government officials, is meant to disparage the bureaucrats, who are usually located in another country. The first word (\"dago\") is an ethnic slur for Italians (and sometimes Spaniards and Latin Americans), but dago dazzlers have been used in other countries, including China.\n\nDago dazzlers were created as early as the late 19th century in the United States, but examples have been referred to in recent decades. Published references nowadays are often accompanied by a statement by the writer that the word \"dago\" in the term is an ethnic slur.\n\nIn 1898, when United States Department of Agriculture scientist David Fairchild left the United States for a plant-collecting expedition in Europe and Asia, he was\n\nA. Lawrence Lowell, president of Harvard University, in 1920 gave a minor university official, Reginald Coggeshall, a dago dazzler \"with a great gold seal of the University\", according to the recipient.\n\nIn August 1929, an associate of Lincoln Kirstein had \"what she called her 'Dago Dazzler'. Bearing the gold stamp of Harvard, this official looking piece of paper identified its bearer as a worthy and accredited scholar of art history who should be permitted to see any and all artworks, whether they were sequestered in private houses, or locked in minor chapels.\" In that situation, the bearer presented her document to a doorman at a private villa in Venice, and the villa's owner soon let her and her two companions inside to inspect frescos.\n\nIn 1940, Thomas Barbour, an official at Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology, sent biologist Archie Carr, then planning an expedition to Mexico, a dago dazzler, in this case a\n\nThe dazzler was meant to help with \"bureaucrats or border guards who could impede the collection and export of scientific specimens\".\n\nIn 1937, Lawrence Griswold described dago dazzlers in \"Tombs, Travel and Trouble\", his book of anecdotes about his travels in Latin America and Southeast Asia:\n\nIn his book, \"Panamexico\" (also published in 1937), Carveth Wells mentioned that the Geographic Society of Chicago issued him a dago dazzler.\n\nFernando Belaúnde Terry, president of Peru from 1963–1968 and again from 1980–1985, at some point gave Everett Ellin, an art expert, a dago dazzler to help Ellin with bureaucrats in that country. Ellin later described the document this way:\n\nJournalists have also been known to use dago dazzlers. The \"National Geographic\" magazine's art department created \"dazzlers\" for use by its roving correspondents, including one which seemed to help get a photographer past customs officials in India in one incident in the early 1970s, when a clerk:\n\nAn anonymous writer for \"The Weekly Standard\" in 2004 recalled use of a dago dazzler at some point in the past when the writer was a student. In this case, the document was part of correspondence between university officials, not taken with the individual on a trip abroad. The writer\n\nThe document, according to the writer, was \"calculated to impress the rubes\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1453113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1453113", "title": "Dan Lee", "text": "Dan Lee\n\nDan Lee (May 19, 1969 – January 15, 2005) was a Canadian animator, best known as the creator of the title character from \"Finding Nemo\".\n\nHe was born in Montreal, Quebec in 1969, the youngest of four children of Chinese immigrants and grew up in Scarborough, Ontario, a suburb of Toronto. He graduated with honours from the animation program at Sheridan College in Oakville, Ontario.\n\nHe worked on television cartoons and commercials for several studios, including Kennedy Cartoons in Toronto and Colossal Pictures in San Francisco before joining Pixar in June 1996.\n\nHe worked as animator on \"Darkwing Duck\", and \"Goof Troop\" while at Kennedy Cartoons.\n\nLee died January 15, 2005 from lung cancer in Berkeley, California. \"Ratatouille\" was dedicated to Lee.\n\n"}
{"id": "8276117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8276117", "title": "Demonstration (teaching)", "text": "Demonstration (teaching)\n\nDemonstration involves showing by reason or proof, explaining or making clear by use of examples or experiments. Put more simply, demonstration means 'to clearly show'. \n\nIn teaching through demonstration, students are set up to potentially conceptualize class material more effectively as shown in a study which specifically focuses on chemistry demonstrations presented by teachers. Demonstrations often occur when students have a hard time connecting theories to actual practice or when students are unable to understand application of theories.\n\nTeachers not only demonstrate specific learning concepts within the classroom, they can also participate in demonstration classrooms to help improve their own teaching strategies, which may or may not be demonstrative in nature. Although the literature is limited, studies show that the effects of demonstration classroom teachers includes a change of perspective in relating to students, more reflection in the teachers’ own classroom strategies, and more personal responsibility for student learning.\n\nDemonstration, or clearly showing (a gamut that ranges from mere pointing to more sophisticated strategies such as chemical reactions), can possibly be used in portraying ideas such as defining words. At first, simple observation and communication through pointing to an object, area, or place, like the sun, moon, or a large mountain top, occurs. Then basic definitions of words emerge. These definitions allow humans to communicate, interact, plan, and co-ordinate in ways that help us to build cities, large buildings, technology, gain knowledge and to successfully communicate with computers. Further, basic concepts centered on time, space, and mathematics are first required to demonstrate and teach probable theories that accurately describe universal phenomenon such as nature, planets, species, and the world around us.\n\nThe history of phenomenon demonstrating concepts, which lead to specific definitions, goes back to the careful observations of ancient Greek philosophers and natural philosophy. Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle attempted to carefully define words that included natural phenomena and objects. The modern scientific method often uses demonstrations that carefully describe certain processes and parts of nature in great detail. In science, often one demonstrates how an experiment is done and shows this to others.\n\nPeople can also communicate values and ideas through demonstrations. This is often done in plays, movies, and film. Pictures without words can show or demonstrate various types of actions and consequences.\n\nWhen using demonstration, there is a four-step process that will allow the students to have a clear understanding of the topic at hand.\n\n"}
{"id": "49155105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49155105", "title": "Dorothy Galton", "text": "Dorothy Galton\n\nDorothy Constance Galton (14 October 1901 – 27 August 1992) was a British university administrator who was suspected by the British security services of being a Russian spy. Born in north London into a family with strong left-wing links, she was personal secretary to Count Mihaly Karolyi, exiled socialist president of Hungary, and later became secretary to the School of Slavonic and East European Studies in London.\n\nGalton joined the Communist Party of Great Britain, travelled several times to Russia, and Kim Philby, who was actually working for the KGB, took an interest in her. She was under some form of surveillance for much of her working life but no conclusive evidence of espionage was ever found against her. In retirement she became an expert in beekeeping and wrote several books on the subject.\n\nDorothy Galton was born on 14 October 1901 at 66 Rathcoole Avenue, Hornsey, London, to Frank Wallace (or Wallis) Galton and his wife, Jessie Jane Townsend Galton, née Cottridge. Her father was secretary to Sidney and Beatrice Webb and later, the Fabian Society. She had an older sister Beatrice Jessie Galton. At the time of the 1911 census, the family were living at 49 Bounds Green Road, Wood Green, London. She was educated at home and then at a secondary school in Wood Green. She attended Bedford College, the University of London's college for women, but soon left and did not earn a degree. She studied Slavonic languages privately. As a young woman she underwent an operation that prevented her from having children.\n\nGalton's early working life was as an assistant in the research and information department of the Labour Party from 1920–25 and then in 1925-26 as private secretary to Count Mihaly Karolyi, the exiled socialist president of Hungary, during which time she travelled with him and his wife to France. It was around this time that Galton first came to official notice after her work for Karolyi was noted in a report to Scotland Yard from Paris. It seems that after she stopped working for Karolyi she was occupied translating from French to English, Émile Faguet's \"Politiques et moralistes du XIXe siècle\" which was published by Ernest Benn in 1928 as \"Politicians & moralists of the nineteenth century\" in their Library of European Political Thought.\n\nIn 1928, Galton became secretary to professor Bernard Pares at the School of Slavonic and East European Studies (SSEES), at that time part of King's College London. When the school became an independent body in 1932, Galton became its administrative secretary. Later, Galton's tenure at SSEES included the directorships of William Rose and George Bolsover.\n\nWhile at SSEES, Galton got to know D.S. Mirsky (\"Prince Mirsky\") well. She wrote that they dined together when Mirsky had money and he indulged his prodigious appetite for food and drink and recited poetry in one of his four languages while she sipped wine. Mirsky's letters to Galton from Moscow from 1932, when he returned to the USSR, to 1937, when he was arrested, were published in the Oxford Slavonic Papers in 1996. Mirsky died in a gulag in 1939.\n\nFrom 1932 to 1936, Galton was an active member of the Communist Party of Great Britain in the St Pancras branch. In August 1934 she visited Leningrad on the SS \"Sibier\" and made an additional visit in 1935–36 with Bernard Pares who wrote it up in \"Moscow admits a critic\" (1936). From 1936, however, she stopped her political work in favour of \"special research work\", apparently on the orders of senior party officials. The British security services continued to monitor Galton throughout the 1930s, reporting in their files on her movements, contacts, correspondence and telephone calls which they intercepted.\n\nDuring the Second World War, SSEES was partly moved to Oxford to avoid the bombing of London. Galton remained in London in the school's temporary home at 1 Thornhaugh Street. When that building was hit by a bomb on the night of 10–11 May 1941, all the school's administrative records were destroyed but \"by good fortune\" Galton had a list of the names and addresses of all the staff and students at home. In 1941, Galton organised a Slavonic studies summer school in Oxford that was attended by 78 students. The summer schools continued in various location in Britain until 1950 when the last one was held in Paris. It is not clear whether Galton organised them all. From May to July 1945 she toured American universities following an invitation from the Rockefeller Foundation and subsequently prepared a report for them on the state of Slavic studies in the universities of the United States, the manuscript of which is held in the SSEES library along with a 59-page diary of her trip.\n\nIn August 1942, British police of Special Branch made \"discreet inquiries\" around Galton's home in Hampstead, which they noted was an area \"which is well populated with persons of communist type and sympathies\". Reports stated that she was 5 ft 8ins or 9ins tall, and \"well built and athletic, fresh complexion, dark bobbed hair, oval face, sharp features, wears spectacles, wears no hat\".\n\nThe MI6 double agent Kim Philby, who was also working for the Russians, enquired what the British Security Services knew about Galton. According to Philby, the FBI thought that Galton had been \"instrumental in effecting reconciliation\" between Josef Stalin and Sir Bernard Pares. Roger Hollis, later director general of MI5 and also suspected by some of having been a Russian spy, wrote to Philby detailing Galton's visits to Russia in 1934 and with Pares in 1935–1936. He stated that Galton had been told by a Communist Party superior in 1936 to stop her political work in favour of \"special research work\". In September 1946, MI5 wrote again to Philby saying that in their opinion the FBI should ignore Pares and pay attention to Galton instead.\n\nGalton remained an object of interest to the British security services in the post-war years. In February 1947, they noted that the mathematician, professor Hyman Levy, described by the security services as a \"well known communist\" had moved in with Galton at her home at 15 South Hill Park Gardens, Hampstead. Also in 1947, she was involved in the Joint Services School of Languages which caused some concern in official channels given Galton's political views. Through the interception of Galton's mail, which continued until 1952, they learned that she had rejoined the Communist Party of Great Britain in 1950.\n\nIn April 1952, Galton's father died. Her mother died in February 1953 and around this time she seems to have come into some money. The security services noted that she had acquired a cottage near Windsor and \"She goes down to it every weekend on her mini-motorcycle.\" Later they noted that she was moving to a cottage in Parndon, Essex, which was part-owned by her brother-in-law, Albert Evans, the Labour Party member of Parliament for South West Islington, and she had \"disposed of her motor-scooter and invested in a car.\"\n\nDespite the long-running suspicions of the security services that Galton was a Russian spy or at least a plant of the Communist Party of Great Britain, they were never able to prove anything.\n\nOpinions were divided over Galton's character. She either had a gift for languages and administration, and a \"warm personality\" (Karl Showler, International Bee Research Association), or was \"a most unpleasant and seriously unbalanced woman and ... by no means efficient\" (MI5 informant). She was described in \"The Times\" as \"formidable\" and \"autocratic\" but also having many friends and willing to help those in need. Olga Crisp, a former student at SSEES, described Galton as shy and forthright and avoiding eye-contact. Galton told Crisp, an exile from Poland, that she thought it was Crisp's duty to return to Poland but as she was clearly determined to stay in Britain, she would do what she could to help her, which she did.\n\nGalton retired from SSEES in December 1961. She was replaced by former army officer and alumnus of SSEES, Ronald Whitworth. She spent her retirement in Norfolk and devoted herself to the study of beekeeping, particularly in Russia, an interest that she first developed in the 1950s. In 1971 the Bee Research Association published her book \"A survey of a thousand years of beekeeping in Russia\", with a foreword by Professor Robert E.F. Smith. In 1987, The International Bee Research Association awarded her honorary membership. Her second book, \"The bee-hive: An enquiry into its origin and history\" (1982) theorised a \"civilisation of the bee\" which she thought contributed to the development of the languages of Eurasia. Her finally work, \"Bees, honey and beeswax in early historical times\", was completed not long before her death but unpublished and the manuscript of it is now lost.\n\nGalton was active in her local Labour Party branch, travelled to Russia, and taught English at the University of Budapest. In 1972 she had a letter published in \"The Times\" from her home at Garden House, Peacock Lane, Holt, Norfolk, in which she condemned proposed changes to the status of SSEES as another example of \"the distasteful, competitive world in which we have to live.\" At the age of nearly 90, she who had never owned a home or had a bank account because she considered interest immoral, inherited a property and a sum of money and had to learn to manage both.\n\nDorothy Galton died at her home, 3 Hooks Hill Road, Sheringham, Norfolk, on 27 August 1992. She had been suffering from stomach cancer. She donated her body to medical research. She did not marry and left no descendants.\n\nPapers relating to Dorothy Galton are held at the SSEES library as the Galton Collection. Records relating to the surveillance of Galton by the British security services are held at the British National Archives, amounting to over 280 pages and covering the period from 1925 to 1952.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8169610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8169610", "title": "Elmer Sprague", "text": "Elmer Sprague\n\nElmer Sprague is professor emeritus at Brooklyn College of the City University of New York, where he taught philosophy for 44 years. He has a B.A. from the University of Nebraska, and a B.A. and D.Phil. from Oxford. He was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford (1948–51), and was the Paul Robert and Jean Shuman Hanna Professor of Philosophy at Hamline University (1987). \n\nHis previous publications include articles on Ryle and Hume, and the books, Metaphysical Thinking and What is Philosophy published by New York Oxford Press in 1961. His specialties are the philosophy of mind and philosophy of language. His book \"Persons and their Minds\", published in 1999, is a Wittgensteinian-Ryleian critique of modern philosophy of mind. \n\nGrowing up in Lincoln, Nebraska, \"where Lee Lawrie's sculptures on the state capitol dominate the city\" led to Sprague's interest in \"sculpture watching,\" which in turn led him to publishing \"Brooklyn Public Monuments: Sculpture for Civic Memory and Urban Pride.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "48036041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48036041", "title": "Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka", "text": "Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka\n\nThe Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka (formerly National Technical Teachers College) is a Nigerian technical tertiary institution located in Akoka, a suburb of Yaba in Lagos. Founded in 1967 by the Federal Government of Nigeria, the institution was founded with the aim of \"grooming and producing teachers in technical, vocational and commercial academic disciplines\". The Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka is approved by the National Universities Commission and offers the award of Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE) and undergraduate first degree courses in technology education, having affiliated to the Federal University of Technology, Minna.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3267095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3267095", "title": "Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh", "text": "Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh\n\nFellowship of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (FRSE) is an award granted to individuals that the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Scotland, judges to be \"eminently distinguished in their subject\".\n\nAround 50 new fellows are elected each year in March. there are around 1650 Fellows, including 71 Honorary Fellows (HFRSE) and 76 Corresponding Fellows.\n\nFellows are entitled to use the post-nominal letters FRSE.\n\nThe Fellowship is split into four broad sectors, covering the full range of physical and life sciences, arts, humanities, social sciences, education, professions, industry, business and public life. \n\n\n\n\n\nExamples of current fellows include Peter Higgs and Jocelyn Bell Burnell. Previous fellows have included Melvin Calvin, Benjamin Franklin, and James Clerk Maxwell, and James Watt. \n\nA comprehensive biographical list of Fellows from 1783-2002 has been published by the Society.\n"}
{"id": "2431535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2431535", "title": "Foundation of the Schools of King Edward VI", "text": "Foundation of the Schools of King Edward VI\n\nThe Foundation of the Schools of King Edward VI in Birmingham is a charitable institution that operates two independent schools, five voluntary aided selective state schools in Birmingham, England and one academy.\n\nRegistered under the name The Schools of King Edward VI in Birmingham as a charity in November 1963, in 2006–7 it had a gross income of approximately £16.4 million, much of which is derived from extensive land holdings in the centre of Birmingham. The beneficiary schools are as follows:\n\n\nOn 28 October 1382, a chantry to say masses for the dead was established in New Street, Birmingham. As part of the religious settlement of King Henry VIII laws were enacted suppressing all monasteries and chantries. In the case of chantries, little had occurred since the 1545 Act and when King Edward VI came to the throne in 1547, new legislation to close chantries was soon enacted. Part of the process of suppressing chantries involved holding an inquiry into their property and assets. The New Street chantry was abolished in common with thousands of others, although the people of Birmingham were told that the assets would not be seized by the Crown but made available for educational purposes. When the assets still had not been returned to the town, a meeting was held in St Martin's Church, the Bull Ring, Birmingham, to petition the Crown to build a school in New Street on the land formerly occupied by the chantry. This was approved and the following year, King Edward VI School was opened. Owning land in the very centre of Birmingham gave it a secure financial base. In 1883, five new King Edward schools were created to meet the educational needs of the expanding population of the city of Birmingham.\n\nDue to financial difficulties, many of the schools were forced to sell the land of their original location to buy the cheaper land from the surrounding area in the city. Many of the schools have hence changed location since their founding, with only Aston remaining in its original buildings.\n\nSince the expansion of the Foundation in 1883, once per year, a selection of pupils from within each school in the Foundation meet at St Martin's Church in the Bull Ring in Birmingham meet for a service to commemorate the founding of the King Edward VI Foundation. This is not principally because it was where the idea of the original school was founded, but because it was the only place locally that could suitably hold the representatives from each school. At this service, pupils read from The Bible, sing hymns, and are told the story of the creation of the Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20568362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20568362", "title": "GCE Advanced Level (United Kingdom)", "text": "GCE Advanced Level (United Kingdom)\n\nThe General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level, or A Level, is a main school leaving qualification in England, Wales, Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. It is available as an alternative qualification in other countries.\n\nIt used to be the case that students would study over a two-year period, and that they would sit examinations at the end of each year (AS and A2 respectively), with each counting for 1/2 of the final grade. In 2015, Ofqual decided to change the system so that students now sit all of their examinations at the end of the second year. AS is still offered, but as a separate qualification. AS grades no longer count towards the final A-level.\n\nMost students study three or four A level subjects simultaneously during the two post-16 years (ages 16–18) in a secondary school, in a sixth form college, in a further and higher education college, or in a tertiary college, as part of their further education.\n\nA Levels are recognised by many universities as the standard for assessing the suitability of applicants for admission in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland, and many such universities partly base their admissions offers on a student's predicted A-level grades, with the majority of these offers conditional on achieving a minimum set of final grades.\n\nA Levels were introduced in 1951 as a standardised school-leaving qualification, replacing the Higher School Certificate. The examinations could be taken on a subject-by-subject basis, according to the strengths and interests of the student.\nThis encouraged specialization and in-depth study of three to four subjects.\nThe A Level at first was graded as simply distinction, pass or fail (although students were given an indication of their marks, to the nearest 5%), candidates obtaining a distinction originally had the option to sit a Scholarship Level paper on the same material, to attempt to win one of 400 national scholarships. The Scholarship Level was renamed the S-Level in 1963.\n\nQuite soon rising numbers of students taking the A-level examinations required more differentiation of achievement below the S-Level standard. Grades were therefore introduced. Between 1963 and 1986 the grades were norm-referenced:\n\nThe O grade was equivalent to a GCE Ordinary Level pass which indicated a performance equivalent to the lowest pass grade at Ordinary Level.\n\nOver time, the validity of this system was questioned because, rather than reflecting a standard, norm referencing simply maintained a specific proportion of candidates at each grade, which in small cohorts was subject to statistical fluctuations in standards. In 1984, the government's Secondary Examinations Council decided to replace the norm referencing with criterion referencing: grades would in future be awarded on examiner judgement thus eliminating a possible inadequacy of the existing scheme.\n\nThe criterion referencing scheme came into effect for the summer 1987 exams as the system set examiners specific criteria for the awarding of B and E grades to candidates, and then divided out the other grades according to fixed percentages. Rather than awarding an Ordinary Level for the lowest pass, a new \"N\" (for Nearly passed) was introduced. Criticisms of A level grading continued, and when Curriculum 2000 was introduced, the decision was made to have specific criteria for each grade, and the 'N' grade was abolished.\n\nIn 1989, Advanced Supplementary (AS) awards were introduced; they were intended to broaden the subjects a pupil studied post 16, and were to complement rather than be part of a pupil's A-level studies. AS-Levels were generally taken over two years, and in a subject the pupil was not studying at A-Level. Each AS level contained half the content of an A-Level, and at the same level of difficulty.\n\nInitially, a student might study three subjects at A-Level and one at AS-Level, or often even four subjects at A-Level. However, due to decreasing public spending on education over time, a growing number of schools and sixth form colleges would now arrange for their pupils to study for three A-Levels instead of four.\n\nA levels evolved gradually from a two-year linear course with an exam at the end, to a modular course, between the late 1980s and 2000. By the year 2000 there was a strong educational reason to standardise the exam and offer greater breadth to students through modules and there was also a pragmatic case based on the inefficiency of linear courses where up to 30% of students were failing to complete or pass.\n\nCurriculum 2000 was introduced in September 2000, with the first new examinations taken in January and June of the following year. The Curriculum 2000 reforms also replaced the S-Level extension paper with the Advanced Extension Award.\n\nThe Conservative Party under Prime Minister David Cameron initiated reforms for A Levels to change from modular to the current linear structure. British Examination Boards (Edexcel, AQA and OCR) regulated and accredited by the government of the United Kingdom responded to the government's reform announcements by modifying specifications of several A Level subjects.\n\nPrior to Government reforms of the A Level system, A-levels consisted of two equally weighted parts: AS (Advanced Subsidiary) Level, assessed in the first year of study, and A2 Level, assessed in the second year of study. Following the reforms, while it is still possible to take the AS Level as a stand-alone qualification, those exams do not count toward the full A Level, for which all exams are taken at the end of the course. An AS course usually comprises two modules, or three for science subjects and Mathematics; full A Level usually comprises four modules, or six for sciences and Mathematics. The modules within each part may have different weights. Modules are either assessed by exam papers marked by national organisations, or in limited cases by school-assessed, externally moderated coursework.\n\nA wide variety of subjects are offered at A-level by the five exam boards. Although exam boards often alter their curricula, this table shows the majority of subjects which are consistently available for study.\n\nThe number of A-level exams taken by students can vary. A typical route is to study four subjects at AS level and then drop down to three at A2 level, although some students continue with their fourth subject. Three is usually the minimum number of A Levels required for university entrance, with some universities specifying the need for a fourth AS subject. There is no limit set on the number of A Levels one can study, and a number of students take five or more A Levels. It is permissible to take A Levels in languages one already speaks fluently, or courses with overlapping content, even if not always fully recognized by universities.\n\nThe pass grades for A Levels are, from highest to lowest, A*, A, B, C, D and E. Those who do not reach the minimum standard required for a grade E receive the non-grade U (unclassified). There is no A* grade at AS level.\n\nThe process to decide these grades for modular A Levels involves the uniform mark scheme (UMS). Under this scheme, four-module A levels have a maximum mark of 400 UMS (or 200 UMS each for AS and A2), and six-module A levels have a maximum mark of 600 (or 300 UMS each for AS and A2). The maximum UMS within AS and A2 may be split unequally between each modules. For example, a Physics AS may have two exam modules worth 90 UMS and 150 UMS, and a coursework module worth 60 UMS. The 'raw marks' i.e. actual score received on a test may differ from UMS awarded. On each assignment, the correspondence of raw marks to UMS is decided by setting grade boundaries, a process which involves consultation by subject experts and consideration of statistics, aiming to keep standards for each grade the same year on year. Achieving less than 40% results in a U (unclassified). For passing grades, 40% corresponds to an E grade, 50% a D, 60% a C, 70% a B, and 80% an A. The A* grade was introduced in 2010 and is awarded to candidates who average 80% UMS across all modules, with a score over 90% UMS in all A2 modules. In Mathematics, which comprises six 100 UMS modules, only the C3 and C4 modules count towards this requirement. In Further Mathematics and Additional Further Mathematics, where more than three A2 modules can be taken, the three best-scoring A2 modules count.\n\nRecent research and the corresponding findings have shown that over a time span of several years students from Northern Ireland would outperform students from England and Wales in A-level examinations.\n\nAccording to UCAS and HKEAA, the Hong Kong A-level examination has historically been benchmarked against the UK A Levels. In general, a UK A grade is broadly equivalent to a Hong Kong A-C grade. This conclusion is based mainly on the percentage of pupils achieving the respective grades in respective exams. In the UK, on average 25% of participants of each subject achieved an A grade every year, compared to the 25% A-C rate in Hong Kong – A(4%), A-B (10%), A-C (25%). According to the BBC, the percentage of students achieving an A* is about 8–10%, which essentially lies within the A-B range of their Hong Kong counterparts in respective subjects. However, the two systems measure mastery of different sets of skills and any comparison can be subjective and therefore meaningless.\n\nIn the United States of America (USA) the high school diploma is the qualification generally required for entry into colleges and universities.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the high school diploma is considered to be at the level of the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE), which is awarded at Year 11. For college and university admissions, the high school diploma may be accepted in lieu of the GCSE if an average grade of C is obtained in subjects with a GCSE counterpart.\n\nAs the more academically rigorous A Levels awarded at Year 13 are expected for university admission, the high school diploma alone is generally not considered to meet university requirements. Students who wish to study in the United Kingdom may additionally participate in the Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB) programs, which are considered to be at the level of the A Level qualifications and earn points on the UCAS Tariff, or may opt to take A Level examinations in British international schools or as private candidates. College Entrance Examination Board (CEEB) tests, such as the SAT, SAT Subject Tests, or the ACT, may also be considered.\n\nThe Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) recommends that in addition to a high school diploma, grades of 3 or above in at least two, or ideally three, Advanced Placement exams may be considered as meeting general entry requirements for admission. The IB Diploma may also be accepted. For the College Entrance Examination Board tests, a minimum score of 600 or higher in all sections of the SAT or a minimum score of 26 or higher in all sections of the ACT along with a minimum score of 600 in relevant SAT Subject Tests may be considered as meeting general entry requirements for admission.\n\nThe Equality Act says that exam boards are required to take ‘such steps as it is reasonable to have to take to avoid the disadvantage’, meaning that they are required to make reasonable adjustments for students who would otherwise be at a substantial disadvantage when demonstrating their skills,\nknowledge and understanding in an assessment. For students taking GCE A Level examinations with learning difficulties, an injury/repetitive strain injury (RSI) or other disabilities, some of the access arrangements offered are:\n\n\nAccess arrangements must be approved by the exam board concerned. There are others available, but these are the most commonly used.\n\nA-level examinations in the UK are currently administered through 5 awarding bodies: AQA, OCR, Edexcel (London Examinations), WJEC and CCEA. The present 5 can trace their roots via a series of mergers or acquisitions to one or more of the originally 9 GCE Examination boards. Additionally, there are two examination boards offering A level qualifications internationally: Edexcel and the CIE. OCR and CIE are both branches of the parent organization, Cambridge Assessment. In the UK it is customary for schools to register with multiple examination boards and to \"mix and match\" A Levels to get a combined curriculum that fits the school profile.\n\nA Levels are usually studied by students in Sixth Form, which refers to the last two years of secondary education in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, taken at ages 16–18. Some secondary schools have their own Sixth Form, which admits students from lower year groups, but will often accept external applications. There are also many specialist Sixth Form and Further Education Colleges which admit from feeder schools across a large geographic area. Admission to A level programmes is at the discretion of providers, and usually depends on GCSE grades. A typical requirement would be 5 A*-C grades at GCSE, although requirements can be higher, particularly for independent schools and grammar schools.\n\nA Levels are offered as an alternate qualification by a small number of educational institutions in Scotland, in place of the standard Scottish Higher, and the Advanced Higher levels of the Scottish Qualifications Certificate. The schools that offer A Levels are mainly private fee-paying schools particularly for students wishing to attend university in England.\n\nMany international schools choose to use the British system for their wide recognition. Furthermore, students may choose to sit the papers of British examination bodies at education centres around the world, such as those belonging to the British Council. According to the British Council, A Levels are similar to the American Advanced Placement courses which are themselves equivalent to first-year courses of America's four-year bachelor's degrees.\n\nA Level students often apply to universities before they have taken their final exams, with applications administered centrally through UCAS. British universities (including Scottish universities, which receive many applicants taking A Levels) consider GCSEs, AS-level results, predicted A Level results, and extracurricular accomplishments when deciding whether applicants should be made an offer through UCAS. These offers may be 'unconditional', guaranteeing a place regardless of performance in A2 examinations. Far more often, the offers are conditional on A level grades, and become void should the student fail to achieve the marks expected by the university (for example, conditional offer of three A Levels at grades B-B-C). Universities may specify which subjects they wish these grades to be in (for example, conditional offer of grades A-A-B with a grade A in Mathematics). The offer may include additional requirements, such as attaining a particular grade in the Sixth Term Examination Paper. The university is obliged to accept the candidate if the conditions are met, but is not obliged to reject a candidate who misses the requirements. Leniency may in particular be shown if the candidate narrowly misses grades.\n\nA Level grades are also sometimes converted into numerical scores, typically UCAS tariff scores. Under the new UCAS system starting in 2017, an A* grade at A Level is worth 56 points, while an A is worth 48, a B is worth 40, a C is worth 32, a D is 24, and a E is worth 16; so a university may instead demand that an applicant achieve 112 points, instead of the equivalent offer of B-B-C. This allows greater flexibility to students, as 112 points could also, for example, be achieved through the combination A-B-D, which would not have met the requirements of a B-B-C offer because of the D grade.\n\nDepending on the specific offer made, a combination of more than 3 subjects (typically 4 or 5) with lower grades, or points from non-academic input such as higher level music grades or a Key Skills course, may also be accepted by the university. The text of the offer determines whether this flexibility is available – \"112 UCAS Points\" likely would, while \"112 UCAS Points from three A Level subjects\" would not.\n\nThere are currently two examination boards which provide an international variant of the United Kingdom A level examinations to international students. These are Cambridge International Examinations (CIE) and Edexcel. International A Level is widely available worldwide, with more than 125 countries providing the programme with 60 different choices of subjects.\n\nUnlike the current modular system implemented in the UK, the CIE A-Level, or more commonly known as the Cambridge A level, practises a terminal-examination system. Students are required to sit for two major exams, AS and A2, at the end of each academic year. Each of the major exams carries the weightage of 50 percent to form a complete A Level. However, Edexcel A level students will be sitting the same paper as the students in UK concurrently.\n\nAdditionally, countries outside of the United Kingdom have established academic qualifications with the same or similar name, and with a similar format, to the United Kingdom A levels. However, these qualifications may be distinct in certain ways from those offered in the United Kingdom.\n\nPlease note: 2018 grades are currently provisional.\n\nNote: norm* - grades allocated per the norm referenced percentile quotas described above.\n\nThe most common criticism of the A-level system is an accusation of grade inflation. The press have noted the steady rise in average grades for several consecutive years and drawn the conclusion that A-levels are becoming consistently easier. In an educational report Robert Coe compared students' scores in the ALIS ability test with equivalent grades achieved in A level exams over the period of approximately 20 years. He found that students of similar ability were achieving on average about 2 grades lower in the past than they were in the present. In the case of maths it was nearer to 3.5 grades lower.\n\nThe government and teaching bodies maintain that the improved grades represent higher levels of achievement due to improved and more experienced teaching methods, but some educationalists and journalists argue that the change is due to grade inflation and the examinations getting easier. It has also been suggested that government pressure on schools to achieve high examination results has led them to coach students to pass the examination rather than understand the subject. In 2000 the A-level system was changed to examine students at the end of each of the two years of A-level study, rather than only at the end of the two years. The results of the first year (AS-level) examinations has allowed students to drop subjects they find difficult after one year and to retake examinations to achieve a higher grade. The ability of unlimited resits, with the best mark going through, has improved results. Some believe that students are tending to select easier subjects instead of harder ones in order to achieve higher grades.\n\nUniversities in Britain have complained that the increasing number of A grades awarded makes it hard to distinguish between students at the upper end of the ability spectrum. The C grade was originally intended to represent the average ability, and students typically required 60% or higher across all assessments to attain it; however, the average result is now at the lower end of the B grade. Many universities have introduced their own entrance tests such as the BMAT and LNAT for specific courses, or conduct interviews to select applicants. In addition, the head of admissions at the University of Cambridge outlined changes he believed should be made to the current system, particularly the use of the Advanced Extension Awards, a more challenging qualification based on the more advanced content of the A-level syllabus. More universities have wanted to see applicants' individual module results to see how comfortably they have achieved their result due to fears that the A-level might not offer an accurate test of ability, or that it is a good prediction of future academic success.\nIn 2007, allegations that students had been given lower marks than they deserved in order to fix overall results and make the pass rate seem lower than it had been in previous years were raised. The Tomlinson Inquiry was set up to ascertain whether this was an underhand to disprove that A levels were becoming too easy. As a result, some papers were re-marked but only 1,220 A level and 733 AS-level students saw an improvement to their results.\n\nIn response to concerns shown by employers and universities that it was not possible to distinguish exceptional candidates from the large number of students achieving A grades, and in order to mirror the current GCSE standards, a debate arose as to whether a new, higher \"super A\" grade (like the A* grade at GCSE) should be introduced. It was generally agreed that bringing in higher grades would be a better idea than raising the grade boundaries to keep the standards consistent, and it was proposed that on top of the A, an A* grade should be available at A level in order to stretch the most able students while ensuring others are not disadvantaged. For modular A2 exams sat from 2010 onwards, the highest A level grade is A*, requiring an A grade overall and 90% overall average UMS in A2 papers.\n\nThe 2004 reform of the Mathematics syllabus, following calls that it was too hard, attracted criticism for allegedly being made easier. In the change, content consisting of three modules (Pure 1–3) were spread to four modules (Core 1–4). It is alleged that this makes the course easier as students do less work for the same qualifications. Further reforms to make the Mathematics syllabus more popular have been met with mixed opinions. Supporters cited it would reverse the downward trend in students taking the subject whilst others were concerned that the subject was \"still incredibly difficult\".\n\nDespite ongoing work to improve the image of A-levels in the business community, a number of business leaders are beginning to express concern about the suitability of the qualification for school leavers and to urge the adoption of the International Baccalaureate in the UK as an alternative qualification at schools. In addition, concerns were raised by Sir Mike Rake, Chairman of BT Group, Sir Terry Leahy, Chairman of Tesco and by Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline. Some schools have also moved to offering the Cambridge Pre-U as an alternative to A-levels and with higher tariffs.\n\nWith increased modularisation of subjects, the amount of time that young adults are spending being examined in the UK has risen considerably. It was estimated in a report by educationalists that by the age of 19 children will have spent an entire year of their school education being assessed. As a result of such criticisms about the \"burden of assessment\", since candidates have taken four papers for most A-levels, instead of six as in the past. This means that there are two modules for AS and two more for A2 for the majority of A levels. However, this will not be the case for all A levels: Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Electronics, Geology, Music, Welsh and Science will continue with six units, three units for AS and A2 respectively, and 600 UMS for the A level. Mathematics (including Further Mathematics, Additional Further Mathematics, Statistics, and the Use of Mathematics AS), will not change structurally in the modular reform; it will stay on 600 UMS (300 UMS for AS), but it will include the new A* grade and the 'Stretch and Challenge' provision. Also, Bengali, Modern Hebrew, Punjabi, Polish, Arabic, Japanese, Modern Greek, Biblical Hebrew, Dutch, Gujarati, Persian, Portuguese, and Turkish will remain at two units, one for AS and one for A2. However, they will move to 200 UMS for A level. Chinese will also move to 200 UMS, but instead of two units, it will move to three units: AS will have two units, A2 will have one. It is the first A level to have an odd number of units since Curriculum 2000.\nCambridge University has warned that it is extremely unlikely that it will accept applicants who are taking two or more supposedly 'softer' A level subjects out of 3. It has outlined a list of subjects it considers to be 'unsuitable', which includes Accounting, Design and Technology, Film Studies, Information and Communication Technology, Media Studies, Photography, and Sports studies.\n\nAs a result of dislike of the modular system, many schools now offer the alternative International Baccalaureate Diploma qualification. The course offers more subjects, extracurricular activity, a philosophical epistemological component known as \"Theory of Knowledge\", as well as the requirement of an extended essay on any subject of a candidate's choice. Unlike the current AS/A2 system, the International Baccalaureate is not based on a modular system. The Diploma Programme, administered by the International Baccalaureate, is a recognised pre-university educational programme.\n\nFormer British Prime Minister Tony Blair recently suggested that one state school in every county should offer the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme as an alternative to A levels.\n\nThe A-level has been criticised for providing less breadth since many A-level students do not generally study more than three subjects in their final year. A major part of this criticism is that, while a three- or four-subject curriculum can be balanced across the spectrum (e.g. students may choose one science subject (such as Maths, Chemistry, or Biology), a language subject (e.g. English Language, English Literature, French, German, Spanish), and a \"creative\" subject like Art Studies), in many cases students choose three closely linked subjects, for instance, Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry or Sociology, Psychology, and Politics. This is in part due to university entrance requirements, which, for degree programs such as medicine, may require three related A-level subjects, but non-traditional combinations are becoming more common (\"British Council Australia Education UK\"). Thus, while the purpose of Curriculum 2000 was to encourage students to undertake contrasting subjects, to broaden their 'skill-base', there is a tendency to pursue similar disciplines. However, others disagree, arguing that the additional AS-level(s) studied would already have provided more breadth compared with the old system.\n\nStudents applying to universities before receiving their A Level results typically do so on the basis of predicted grades, which are issued by schools and colleges. A student's predicted grades usually depend on their GCSE results, family income, performance in tests and mock examinations, or a combination of these factors.\n\nA possible reformation would be something called the post-qualifications applications system (PQA), where applicants apply to university after they receive their results. It has been argued that this would be fairer to applicants, especially those from lower-income families whose results were thought to be under-predicted. However, a more recent UCAS report shows that although the reliability of predicted grades declines in step with family income, this can still lead to an over-prediction effect for lower income groups. Just 45% of predicted grades are accurate – 47% are over-predictions and 9% under-predictions. A recent UCAS consultation rejected the implementation of PQA following opposition from universities, schools and awarding bodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "34445568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34445568", "title": "GlobaLeaks", "text": "GlobaLeaks\n\nGlobaLeaks is an open-source, free software intended to enable secure and anonymous whistleblowing initiatives. It was developed by the Hermes Center for Transparency and Digital Human Rights, an Italian-based NGO supporting freedom of speech online.\n\nThe software empowers anyone, even non-technical people, to easily setup and maintain a whistleblowing platform.\n\nThe project concept was initiated by Fabio Pietrosanti and shared for the first time within the hacktivist community on 15 December 2010.\n\nRelevant figures in the first development are Claudio Agosti, Arturo Filastò, Michele Orrù and Giovanni Pellerano.\n\nThe first prototype was announced on 6 September 2011 on the Full disclosure mailing list.\n\nAsked by an interviewer on how the GlobaLeaks project began, Filastò explained: \"After the whole WikiLeaks Cablegate drama we decided to work on this.\"\n\nThe idea for GlobaLeaks \"was born from the realization of a need for journalists to ensure the confidentiality of their sources despite an insecure network.\" It is designed to be used by journalists who do not have advanced computer skills but who need a secure platform to protect their sources. The software enables journalists and their sources to communicate securely, allowing \"a continuous flow of data among individuals with complete security.\" It also enables journalists to verify sources by requesting various kinds of data and documents. Moreover, GlobaLeaks is more flexible than WikiLeaks, which is only in English, and is centralized, with a focus on \"events of national and international resonance.\" GlobaLeaks, by contrast, \"allows you to communicate in the language of users and is open to local issues with an impact on everyday life.\"\n\nFilastò and his partners noted that most leaksites \"had poor security,\" with the vulnerabilities of the Wall Street Journal's whistleblowing dropbox SafeHouse, for instance, being \"exposed only hours after it went online.\" Filastò commented that: \"We saw that there is a user base but the developers were doing it wrong. We said: 'we are security people, we can do this better'. So two years ago we came up with an advanced prototype: Globaleaks 0.1. It was an initial experiment but it went quite well. We then redid it from scratch and we're now at version 2.24.\".\n\nIn 2011, Tor2web, Tor Hidden Service proxy designed by Aaron Swartz and Virgil Griffith, became part of the GlobaLeaks project as a component intended for extending platforms reachability to traditional HTTPS connections.\n\nIn 2012, the Hermes Center for Transparency and Digital Human Rights NGO was founded in Italy.\n\nBrandon Stosh has described GlobaLeaks as \"an open source project aimed at creating a worldwide, anonymous, censorship-resistant, distributed whistleblowing platform.\" GlobaLeaks seeks \"to democratize the WikiLeaks model\" and to become \"the de-facto standard in technologically-powered whistleblowing\" focused on the research of the best trade-off between security and usability. The Hermes Center NGO \"aims to help with the release of information on a different scale than WikiLeaks can address.\" Pietrosanti said in December 2013, we identified the needed for a \"solution or software that would enable any organization to engage in whistleblower solicitation, even at the local level.\" he added.\n\nAndy Greenberg has quoted Pietrosanti in saying that Hermes's goal \"is to expand the leaking movement from the current fifty or so WikiLeaks copycats to a network of hundreds or thousands of 'leak nodes' run by everyone from U.S. corporations that are legally mandated to run an internal whistleblowing outlet to radical activists that hope to pass their materials on to publishers while using Tor to remain completely anonymous.\" GlobaLeaks, wrote Greenberg, \"aims to disperse the risk of handling sensitive material over an army of individuals rather than one vulnerable group of intermediaries. 'Some people may be like Assange, and say, OK, we'll publish and fight and whatever,' says Pietrosanti. 'But lots of people want to fight corruption without taking that much responsibility. If the risk profile of everyone who runs a leak node is reduced, there will be a lot more leak nodes. WikiLeaks taught us something. And it brought the word whistleblower back into the awareness of the public (...) But GlobaLeaks is the next logical step.\" Filastò added.\n\nIn October 2013, Tessel Renzenbrink wrote in her article \"Building an Infrastructure for Whistleblowing\" that \"there are very few protection mechanisms in place for whistleblowers,\" and that because of this, \"whistleblowing featured as an important topic at OHM2013, the biggest outdoor hacker festival in Europe.\" At the festival, Renzenbrink spoke with people from \"several organizations that have started initiatives to build a better whistleblowing infrastructure,\" including Filastò, who told her: \"Globaleaks is a software designed to allow anybody to easily set up a whistleblower site\". Filastò emphasized that \"It is open source software so anybody can download it, install it and have a whistleblower site set up. (...) we don't run a whistleblowing platform ourselves (...) but we contribute to this ecosystem by enabling other people to run successful initiatives.\"\n\nA GlobaLeaks site utilizes Tor Hidden Services in order to guarantee the anonymity of the source. \n\nOnce the submission is performed on a GlobaLeaks platform, the data is encrypted using PGP and the system automatically notifies registered recipients (e.g., local media, NGOs, or even single journalists). GlobaLeaks platforms do not store anything permanently and the submitted information and files are deleted as soon as possible with a strict data retention policy.\n\nThe process is generally improved by suggesting the sources to use the Tails anonymous operating system while connecting to GlobaLeaks.\n\nJavaScript is required from the user agent to access GlobaLeaks.\n\nBy 2017, GlobaLeaks has been internationalized in 20+ languages and implemented by more than 60 projects and initiatives all over the world. The vast range of adopters include independent media, activists, media agencies, corporations and more.\n\nDescribing the early deployments, \"Wired\" reporter John Borland, GlobaLeaks had been \"deployed around Europe, by independent journalism and activist groups in Serbia, investigative journalism organizations in Hungary and Italy, and an anti-Mafia group in Italy.\" Borland noted that \"A GlobaLeaks-powered whistleblowing site in Iceland, called Ljost, today [30 December 2013] released new documents on that country's 2008 financial collapse.\" Pietrosanti told Borland that GlobaLeaks was \"currently talking with organizations in a number of other countries, including several media groups that want to replicate the successful Dutch model.\" Borland added that \"activists are also examining topic-specific leaks sites for issues such as human rights, wildlife crimes, surveillance, food safety in the United States, and censorship.\"\n\nThe largest implementation of GlobaLeaks occurred in 2014 by PubLeaks in the Netherlands, \"a foundation that counts 42 of the country's biggest media organizations among its members. There, each organization pays €500 per year, and in return receives a special laptop designed to access the leak system.\" Borland noted that \"When accessing Publeaks from the web, whistleblowers can choose to send information to three of these media organizations. All participating organizations agree to honor embargo periods, enabling information to be examined without immediate publication pressure. The group has already had several high-profile leaks, including one that led to the resignation of a prominent parliamentarian.\"\n\nOther major organizations supporting the setup of GlobaLeaks based whistleblowing platforms are Free Press Unlimited (FPU) and Associated Whistleblowing Press (AWP).\n\nFPU, a Netherland-based organization, created AfriLeaks and MéxicoLeaks. AfriLeaks was GlobaLeaks' first project outside the western world run by an alliance of 15+ African news organisations that are committed to speaking truth to power. \"Whistleblowing is an important instrument that should be used carefully, so future training is now being planned and will continue to take place regularly.\" said Pellerano to the Guardian.\nAs for MéxicoLeaks, it is an active independent whistleblowing platform aimed at revealing information for the public interest in Mexico which was awarded the 2016 FRIDA award.\n\nAWP, a Belgium-based organization, created Ljost (Iceland), Filtrala (Spain), EcuadorTransparente (Ecuador) and PeruLeaks (Peru). AWP co-founder Pedro Noel describes AWP as \"a nonprofit organization which struggles for freedom of expression and against human rights violations by means of whistleblowing.\"\n\nOne of the most successful GlobaLeaks projects is WildLeaks, the world's first whistleblower initiative dedicated to Wildlife and Forest Crime funded and managed by the Elephant Action League (EAL) which reported and investigated various crimes. One of the investigations was highlighted in the award-winning Netflix documentary \"The Ivory Game\".\n\nGlobaLeaks also partnered with major anticorruption and human rights NGOs like Transparency International Allerta Anticorruzione, OCCRP (OCCRPLeaks) and Amnesty International Amlea.\n\nIn 2017, Xnet, an activist project which has been working on and for networked democracy and digital rights since 2008, launched in the Barcelona City Hall the first public Anti-Corruption Complaint Box using anonymity protection technology like Tor and GlobaLeaks (\"Bústia Ètica\" in Catalan). With this pioneering project, the Barcelona City Hall is the first municipal government to invite citizens to use tools which enable them to send information in a way that is secure, that guarantees privacy and gives citizens the option to be totally anonymous.\n\nIn 2018 the Italian Anti-Corruption Authority (ANAC), an administrative watchdog, launched their national online whistleblowing platform using GlobaLeaks and onion services, giving whistleblowers who come forward a secure way to report illegal activity while protecting their identities.\n\nIn 2011, GlobaLeaks 0.1 received funding from USAID Serbia.\n\nIn 2012, GlobaLeaks 2.0 had been funded with $108,400 by the Open Technology Fund under the Freedom2Connect program.\n\nIn 2013, the project was able to survive with few donations and a lot of volunteer work done by its core members.\n\nIn 2014, Hermes Center has been awarded €200.000 by the Hivos Foundation for Project Deployments of Whistleblowing Initiatives in the Global South.\n\nIn July 2014, GlobaLeaks project has been funded with ~$234,000 by the Open Technology Fund in order to develop a new Roadmap from Q3/2014 up to Q1/2016 for which all progress reports are publicly available.\n\nIn September 2014, Transparency International Italy started up its AntiCorruption Advocacy and Legal Advice Centre (ALAC) with a contribution of €6.000 from an EU grant.\n\n"}
{"id": "55006757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55006757", "title": "Growth Engineering", "text": "Growth Engineering\n\nGrowth Engineering is a SAAS learning technologies company. They provide a platform for e-Learning, also known as a learning management system. Established in 2004, Growth Engineering offers a learning portal for companies and their employees, partners and customers. Growth Engineering is compatible with SCORM 1.2, SCORM 2004 and xAPI. In a Technavio report, Growth Engineering were recognised as a vendor in the game-based learning market. \n\nGrowth Engineering was founded in 2004 by Juliette Denny. She founded the company as a consultancy targeted at new businesses in need of sales management training. Then, Growth Engineering released the Academy LMS. An online learning portal for businesses to train employees. The product focused on using gamification to engage learners. In 2016 Growth Engineering was listed on the Mishcon Leap 100. In 2015 Growth Engineering was named as the best LMS provider by e-Learning 24/7, and in 2016 they were named as the number one NextGen LMS and the best LMS for gamification by Learning 24/7.\n\nGrowth Engineering have two products: the Academy LMS and Genie:\n"}
{"id": "42301383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42301383", "title": "Hansi, the Girl who Loved the Swastika", "text": "Hansi, the Girl who Loved the Swastika\n\nHansi: The Girl who Loved the Swastika is an American one-shot comic book, published in 1973 by Spire Christian Comics and drawn by Al Hartley. It is a story set in Nazi Germany in 1938 that condemns Nazism and Communism and promotes the Bible. It is based on the real-life story of Maria Anne Hirschmann.\n\nAfter becoming a born-again Christian in 1967, Hartley in the 1970s published a series of comics promoting the stories of Christians in the modern world, and decided that Hirschmann's story would fit in with his series.\n\nHansi is a naïve young peasant girl in Sudetenland, who is mesmerized by the Führer and reading books. After the Sudetenland is transferred from Czechoslovakia to Germany in October 1938, she welcomes the Sudetenland \"going home to the \"Reich\"\". She wins a contest, organized by Adolf Hitler, that picks students for special training in National socialist schools in Prague. Her mother is delighted, but warns her in advance to \"never forget Jesus Christ\". As Hansi arrives in Prague, she is educated into antisemitism, but has doubts since Jesus himself was a Jew. Still, despite people informing her about the famine and horrors of the war she remains enthusiastic about Hitler. \n\nHansi is also in love with a German U-boat sailor named Rudy, but his parents disapprove of the marriage because she is just a peasant. Since she doesn't want to break him and his parents apart she breaks the relationship off. By now Hansi is so brainwashed that she condemns the Bible as \"outdated\" and only fit for \"cowards and weaklings\". As the war progresses Hansi and other people have to evacuate Prague because the Russians are on their way. Despite other people around her realizing that the war is a lost cause, Hansi remains confident in the Führer. She is sent off to a Russian prisoner camp, where she and other girls have to work in slave labor and become victim of rape, except for Hansi who is too skinny to be taken advantage of by the men. Hansi and a girlfriend decide to escape to the American prisoner camps, despite her friend's objections about the USA. They manage to cross the border safely and escape Red Army soldiers trying to shoot refugees. Despite all the misery around her, Hansi still has her faith in Jesus. As Hansi reaches the American prisoner camp, she is amazed how good the American soldiers treat her. As the war is over and Germany lies in rubble Hansi decides to become a teacher.\n\nThen it turns out Rudy is still alive. They become a couple again, but after a year they feel something \"is missing from their lives\". Hans re-introduces Hansi to the Bible, but she feels unsure whether she can still believe as she suffered through so much misery. Over the years she and Rudy raise a family and become good Christians. They travel to the US, where Hansi wonders whether all the materialism \"obscured God's blessings\" and made her students \"troubled\" and \"unsure where to give their allegiance\". As Hansi takes the flag salute, she is finally convinced about the goodness of the United States, when she hears the phrase \"one nation under God\", because \"it's all right to love what God has blessed\". Now Rudy and Hansi decide to promote the Bible to young people and explain the splendor of America's freedom.\n\nThe Swedish historian Fredrik Strömberg called Hirschmann's story fascinating, but wrote the comic was \"questionable\" in its message. Strömberg wrote that the character of Hirschmann was little more than a blank slate, who uncritically follows whatever she is reading, starting out as a Catholic, becoming a Nazi, and ending the story as a Protestant, writing was the comic was \"not much of a statement for free thinking\". Strömberg also expressed concern about the message the comic gives in that the women who were raped by the Red Army soldiers were \"rewarded\" by being killed, saying the comic was highly misogynistic despite having a female protagonist. Another reviewer complained that the comic was extremely objectionable in its message, citing the line from the comic \"Germany surrendered! The dream ended! The nightmare began!\", leading the reviewer to sarcastically state in response \"Unless you were a Jew, Communist, gypsy, homosexual or dissident, in which case, the nightmare had ended- the authors of this book, I can't believe 'em\". The same reviewer noted that the character of Hirschmann as presented in the comic was \"...the most gullible girl in the world! She believes anything she reads, f'r cryin' out loud. She starts off believing the Bible cause it's the only book she has, then some Nazi gives her ANOTHER book so SHE becomes a Nazi, then she hears the Bible's cool again, so she picks that up, then she hears America's cool, and goes there, only it isn't\". \n\nRead More: Comic Art Propaganda Explored: ‘Hansi The Girl Who Loved the Swastika’ | https://web.archive.org/web/20151119145418/http://comicsalliance.com/comic-art-propaganda-explored-hansi-the-girl-who-loved-the-swa/?trackback=tsmclip\n"}
{"id": "1003088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1003088", "title": "Houghton Mifflin Harcourt", "text": "Houghton Mifflin Harcourt\n\nHoughton Mifflin Harcourt (; HMH) is an educational and trade publisher in the United States. Headquartered in Boston's Financial District, it publishes textbooks, instructional technology materials, assessments, reference works, and fiction and non-fiction for both young readers and adults.\n\nThe company was formerly known as Houghton Mifflin Company but changed its name following the 2007 acquisition of Harcourt Publishing. Prior to March 2010, it was a subsidiary of Education Media and Publishing Group Limited, an Irish-owned holding company registered in the Cayman Islands and formerly known as Riverdeep.\n\nIn 1832, William Ticknor and James Thomas Fields began a small publishing business and gradually gathered an impressive list of writers, including Ralph Waldo Emerson, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and Henry David Thoreau. The duo formed a close relationship with Riverside Press, a Boston printing company owned by Henry Oscar Houghton. Shortly after, Houghton also founded a publishing company with partner George Mifflin. In 1880, Ticknor and Fields and Houghton and Mifflin merged their operations, combining the literary works of writers with the expertise of a publisher and creating a new partnership named Houghton, Mifflin and Company. The company still had debt from when it merged from Houghton, Osgood and Company, so it decided to add partners. In 1884, James D. Hurd, the son of Melancthon Hurd became a partner. In 1888, three others became partners as well: James Murray Kay, Thurlow Weed Barnes, and Henry Oscar Houghton Jr.\n\nShortly thereafter, the company established an Educational Department, and from 1891 to 1908 sales of educational materials increased by 500 percent. Soon after 1916, Houghton Mifflin became involved in publishing standardized tests and testing materials, working closely with such test developers as E. F. Lindquist. By 1921, the company was the fourth-largest educational publisher in the United States.\n\nIn 1961, Houghton Mifflin famously passed on Julia Child's \"Mastering the Art of French Cooking\", giving it up to Alfred A. Knopf who published it in 1962. It became an overnight success and is considered by many to be the bible of French cooking. Houghton Mifflin's strategic error was depicted in the 2009 film \"Julie & Julia\".\n\nIn 1967, Houghton Mifflin became a publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange under the stock symbol HTN.\n\nUnder (new from 1991) president Nader F. Darehshori Houghton Mifflin acquired McDougal Littell in 1994 for $138 million, an educational publisher of secondary school materials, and the following year aquired D.C. Heath and Company, a publisher of supplemental educational resources. In 1996, the company created their Great Source Education Group to combine the supplemental material product lines of their School Division and these two companies.\n\nIn 1998, HMH announced a sub-brand called LOGAL Software, which was to release a new line of interactive science software called \"Science Gateways\", to support the United States curriculum. As of 2017, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt is offering the \"Logal Science\" brand as a licensing opportunity on its website.\n\nIn 2017, it was announced that Houghton Mifflin Harcourt would be getting involved in TV production with a planned 2019 Netflix series that will revive the Carmen Sandiego franchise.\n\nMergers and acquisitions (M&A) activities have had major effects on this company.\n\nIn 2001, Houghton Mifflin was acquired by French media giant Vivendi Universal for $2.2 billion including assumed debt. In 2002, facing mounting financial and legal pressures, Vivendi sold Houghton to private equity investors Thomas H. Lee Partners, Bain Capital, and Blackstone Group for $1.66 billion, including assumed debt (approximately 25% less than Vivendi had paid a year earlier).\n\nOn December 22, 2006, it was announced that Riverdeep PLC had completed its acquisition of Houghton Mifflin. The new joint enterprise would be called the Houghton Mifflin Riverdeep Group. Riverdeep paid $1.75 billion in cash and assumed $1.61 billion in debt from the private investment firms Thomas H. Lee Partners, Bain Capital and Blackstone Group. Tony Lucki, a former non-executive director of Riverdeep, remained in his position as the company's chief executive officer until April 2009.\n\nHoughton Mifflin sold its professional testing unit, Promissor, to Pearson plc in 2006. The company combined its remaining assessment products within Riverside Publishing, including San Francisco-based Edusoft.\n\nOn July 16, 2007, Houghton Mifflin Riverdeep announced that it signed a definitive agreement to acquire the Harcourt Education, Harcourt Trade and Greenwood-Heinemann divisions of Reed Elsevier for $4 billion. The expanded company would become Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. McDougal Littell was merged with Harcourt's Holt, Rinehart & Winston to form Holt McDougal.\n\nOn December 3, 2007, Cengage Learning (formerly Thomson Learning) announced that it had agreed to acquire the assets of the Houghton Mifflin College Division for $750 million, pending regulatory approval.\n\nOn November 25, 2008, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt announced a temporary freeze on acquisition of new trade division titles, allegedly in response to the economic crisis of 2008. The publisher of the trade division resigned, apparently in protest. Many observers familiar with the publishing industry saw the move as a devastating blunder.\n\nHarcourt Religion was sold to Our Sunday Visitor in 2009.\n\nOn July 27, 2009, the Irish Independent newspaper reported that Houghton Mifflin Harcourt's controlling shareholder EMPG was in the process of a re-structuring negotiations with its unsecured-debt holders that would lead to the conversion of the debt into equity. The news story reported that the unsecured debt holders would receive a 45% equity stake. As a result, the royal family of Dubai via their Istithmar World Capital investment vehicle became major stakeholders. Estimates were that EMPG would cut its debt from $7.3bn to $6.1bn. On August 15, 2009, the \"Financial Times\" newspaper reported in an interview with Houghton Mifflin Harcourt's CEO at the time, Barry O'Callaghan, that the refinancing had received approval of more than 90% of lenders. The terms included the holding company debt converting into 45% of the fully diluted common equity, an effective 25 per cent relaxation of financial covenants, second lien lenders agreeing to convert their holdings into a PIK instrument, reducing annual interest costs by $100m, and a further $50m increase its working capital facility.\n\nA further restructuring of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt's debts was confirmed by the company on January 13, 2010. The proposed restructuring materially impacted the shareholders of EMPG, the former holding company of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.\n\nOn February 22, 2010, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt announced that EMPG and HMH had reached an agreement to restructure the finances of the company and recapitalize its balance sheet with a substantial fresh cash investment by institutional investors.\n\nThe agreement, supported by 100% of HMH's creditors, highlighted a reduction in the senior debt to $3 billion from the current $5 billion, with new equity issued to the senior debt holders (including Paulson & Co. and Guggenheim Partners), conversion of the $2 billion mezzanine debt into equity and warrant, receipt of $650m of new cash from the sale of new equity. In addition to the key highlights, HMH announced its new $100m Innovation Fund, to invest in the next generation of technology for the education industry.\n\nThe \"Irish Times\" reported that the investments by the then equity holders of EMPG, including HMH's CEO at the time, Barry O'Callaghan, private clients of Davy Stockbrokers, Reed Elsevier, and others of over $3.5 billion would be written down to zero. Additionally, the Irish Independent reported that following the restructuring, the investors of EMPG would have a nominal investment in Houghton Mifflin Harcourt via warrants over 5% of the company if it exceeded the $10 billion valuation placed on the company at the time of the merger between Houghton Mifflin Riverdeep and Harcourt. In addition to the warrants in HMH, the EMPG shareholders would continue to own a stake in the international investment vehicle, EMPGI which has stakes in China, the Middle East and elsewhere.\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" reported that no management changes were expected as part of the deal with both the CEO at the time, Barry O'Callaghan and the CFO, Michael Muldowney expected to remain in their roles. The Times reported that a new nine-member board was to be created with the CEO the only executive representative, one independent, two representative of Paulson & Co, and one director from each of Apollo, BlackRock, Guggenheim Partners, Fidelity and Avenue Capital.\n\nOn March 10, 2010, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt announced that it had completed its re-capitalization. In addition to a new investment of $650 million of equity, the debt levels of the company were reduced by approximately 60% and the annual interest payments by over 75%. According to the Irish State Broadcaster, RTÉ, the old equity investors based in Ireland has lost all their investment. The \"Irish Independent\" reported that the old shareholders were denied a shareholders meeting to vote or discuss the restructuring. The former shareholders have been left with warrants over 5% of the company, in the case its value recovers to previous levels.\n\nOn September 19, 2011, it was announced that Linda K. Zecher would be replacing Barry O'Callahan as chief executive officer and Director of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt after O'Callahan resigned. Zecher went to HMH from Microsoft. \n\nIn 2012, HMH acquired the culinary and reference portfolio of John Wiley & Sons, including CliffNotes and Webster's New World Dictionary.\n\nThe company went public in November 2013.\n\nOn May 13, 2014, HMH bought Channel One News. In 2015, Houghton Mifflin struggled to find a charity that would accept royalties for \"Mein Kampf\" by Adolf Hitler.\n\nOn February 15, 2017, John J. (\"Jack\") Lynch, Jr., the former CEO of Renaissance Learning, was named the new CEO of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.\n\nOn September 22, 2016, Zecher resigned from HMH and was replaced by Interim CEO and Board Member L. Gordon Crovitz. Crovitz is a former publisher of the Wall Street Journal. On February 15, 2017, John J. (\"Jack\") Lynch, Jr., the former CEO of Renaissance Learning, was named the new CEO of HMH.\n\nJack brought Jim O’Neill back to the company to lead the core division as GM and EVP.\n\nHMH is also home to popular media brands like Carmen Sandiego and The Oregon Trail; and iconic brands including The Whole30; The Best American series; The American Heritage and Webster's New World dictionaries; Better Homes and Gardens; How to Cook Everything; the Peterson Field Guides; CliffsNotes; and many children's books including Curious George and The Little Prince; as well as \"Mein Kampf\" by Adolf Hitler and US publishing of J. R. R. Tolkien.\n\nHMH's authors include eight Nobel Prize winners, 47 Pulitzer Prize winners, 13 National Book Award winners, and more than 100 Caldecott, Newbery, Printz, and Sibert Medal and Honor recipients.\n\nCurious George at the Zoo was rated a Top Ten app under the Education Games category for the iPad, iPhone, and iPod Touch in 2012.\n\nGo George Go!, a mobile app for preschoolers, received the Editor's Choice Award from the Children's Technology Review in 2011.\n\nGo Math!, a K–6 product, was named a Reader's Choice Top 100 product by District Administration in 2010.\n\nIn 2015, CTO Brook Colangelo won Boston Business Journal's CIO of the year.\n\nIn 2016, the company was named as one of Forbes' Top 100 companies for Remote Jobs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46977805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46977805", "title": "Institut français du Royaume-Uni", "text": "Institut français du Royaume-Uni\n\nThe Institut français du Royaume-Uni is a branch of the Institut français, which represents and promotes France and French culture in the United Kingdom.\n\nFounded in 1910, as \"The Université des Lettres française\" the Institut Français has branches in London and Edinburgh (See: \"French Institute for Scotland\").\n\n\"Marie d'Orliac, who had become Marie Bohn on her marriage, directed the Institute and the school from 1910 to 1920.\"\n\nThe London branch includes the \"Ciné Lumière\" cinema, and a library which includes the \"Bibliothèque Quentin Blake\" for children's books.\n\n"}
{"id": "744511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=744511", "title": "Institute for Research in Information and Scholarship", "text": "Institute for Research in Information and Scholarship\n\nThe Institute for Research in Information and Scholarship (IRIS) was founded at Brown University by Andries van Dam, William S. Shipp, and Norman Meyrowitz in 1983 and closed in 1991. It was initially part of a campus-wide effort at Brown to develop a \"scholar's workstation.\"\n\nThe Intermedia advanced hypertext authoring system was the most significant project developed at IRIS.\n\nIRIS partnered with the Getty Art History Information Program to conduct a study of the research methods of art historians in the mid 1980s. The results of this study can be found in Bakewell, E.; Beeman, W; Reese, C and Schmitt, M., (Gen. Ed.). (1988). Object, image, inquiry: The art historian at work. Santa Monica: CA: Getty Art History Information Program.\n"}
{"id": "45316265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45316265", "title": "Instructional rounds", "text": "Instructional rounds\n\nInstructional rounds is a process that school districts and schools use to better understand teaching and learning in schools in order to improve learning at scale. In an instructional rounds session, a group of educators from perhaps 20 to 40 in size makes a series of visits to classrooms to observe what is taking place in the instructional core (the interactions between students and teachers in the presence of content). Low inference observation notes are taken about a learning problem identified by the school being observed. The observation notes are used to create a picture of what has been seen in teaching and learning practices throughout the school. It is these practices that are shared with the school, not information about individual teachers or students. Adapted from the practice of grand rounds in medical school, the aim of instructional rounds is to observe teaching and learning to discern root causes for problems identified by the school and to help the school and district create more productive outcomes. Distinct from supervision and evaluation, rounds are used to describe what is happening in classrooms and the share observations with educators, and are not intended to be evaluative.\n\nThe process of instructional rounds was adapted from medical rounds model that is used in schools of medicine and teaching hospitals to improve practice of prospective and current doctors in diagnosing and curing patients. Physicians use medical rounds as a major way of improving their theory and practice. \"In the most commonly used version of medical rounds, a group of medical interns, residents, and supervising or attending physicians visit patients, observe and discuss the evidence for diagnoses, and, after a thorough analysis of evidence, discuss possible treatments.\"\n\nInstructional rounds include several steps: formation of a network that ideally includes representative members from all those who impact student learning; choosing a problem to be addressed; classroom observation; observation debrief ; detection of the next steps, and regular repetition of this process.\n\nNetwork formation involves the gathering of educators who will regularly meet with each other to do rounds. There are not specific criteria sets for the creation of networks, it depends on the situation, time and preferences of educators. Different kinds of networks could be used to do rounds. Some of them are cross-functional in which teachers and administrators work together, while others are homogeneous in nature composed of superintendents or teachers exclusively. Instructional rounds could be integrated into existing networks or specially formed new networks of educators. Sometimes members of the network are selected intentionally, according to the subject, content they teach or problem area they share. Other networks are more pragmatic, for instance, teachers with the same planning time engage in rounds together.\n\nThe problem of practice is a specific issue that the school needs constructive feedback on, worries about or struggles against. The problem should be observable and focused on improving teaching. It is unsolved problem that the school has spent time and money to address, but it is in further need of assistance. There are different ways of identifying problems of practice. The best way is to relate these problems to continuous school improvement and to proceed based on data. To determine the problem of practice sometimes the entire staff gathers or only the leadership team meets to identify a problem.\n\nAn example of a problem of practice could be the following: \"In reading and writing, our students seem to be doing relatively well on decoding, vocabulary, and simple writing tasks, but they are not doing as well as we had hoped on comprehension free-response tasks. Teachers have begun using a workshop method to work with smaller groups of students, but there is no consistency in what happens in those small groups\".\n\nAfter determining the problem of practice, the network splits into smaller groups of 4-5 teachers that visit approximately 4-5 classrooms for 25 minutes each. Observers collect descriptive data rather than evaluative, meaning that they do not have any rubrics to guide them. Observers do have guiding questions associated with the problem they are investigating. For instance, 'What are students and teachers doing and saying?,' 'What is the assignment?,' 'What do students do when they do not understand the concept or instruction?'.\n\nObservers do not look at every issue in the classroom, but only those connected with the problem of practice. For instance, if the issue is lack of higher order thinking skills among students, observers do not pay attention on behavior and attendance of students, their involvement in the task, or teacher behavior, such as writing objectives on the board. Observers attempt to find the cause of the existing problem of practice in school and then identify a viable cure for it.\n\nIt is very important that observers do not talk between class observations and save everything they saw, their descriptive feedback, for the official debrief.\n\nThe process of debrief consists of three steps: description, analysis, and prediction. During the description stage, all groups of the network meet together and share their evidence that pertains to the problem of practice with the others. The evidence should be specific and descriptive rather than evaluative and general. Regular practice and peer help could facilitate learning to collect specific and descriptive evidence.\n\nHaving gathered a set of evidence, the network can begin analyzing it by looking at trends, patterns, and exceptions across the data. Examples of patterns could be: Students are divided into groups, but work individually; teacher asks simple questions that requires short 1-2 words answers. Each groups of teachers share trends and patterns that have seen. This could help educators to determine common patterns in subject area, grade level and across school. However, sometimes patterns could vary in each subject or grade level.\n\nAt the prediction stage observers answer to the following question, “If you were a student in these classes today and you did everything the teacher asked you to do, what would you know and be able to do?” This question is asked to see what students could learn as a result of the completed assignments and tasks in the class. The responses of the observers could be: Learners will be able to solve mathematical problems, recall information, etc.\n\nThere are different ways of detecting next steps of work. Some networks brainstorm action plans for the following week, next month or by the end of educational year. Other networks creates reflective questions to reflect\n"}
{"id": "56254198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56254198", "title": "Intercultural Theatre Institute", "text": "Intercultural Theatre Institute\n\nThe Intercultural Theatre Institute (ITI), formerly known as Theatre Training & Research Programme (TTRP), is a specialised, independent actor-training school in Singapore that offers a three-year full-time programme that trains actors through contemporary approaches and classical Asian theatre training. It is currently under the aegis of Singapore's Committee for Private Education.\n\nFounded by dramatist Kuo Pao Kun and current director, T. Sasitharan in 2000, the school takes in a maximum of 12 students every year from all over the world. The institute is currently located at Emily Hill, near The Istana within the city limits of Singapore.\n\nTTRP was founded in 2000 by the internationally known director, playwright and father of contemporary theatre in Singapore, Kuo Pao Kun, and T. Sasitharan. It started operations as a division of arts charity Practice Performing Arts Centre Ltd (renamed The Theatre Practice Ltd in 2010), with seed funding from the Lee Foundation and Sim Wong Hoo. It was located at the Creative Technology building in International Business Park and was later awarded a grant from the Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts for the years 2001 to 2003.\n\nIn 2003, the pioneering cohort of students graduate.\n\nIn 2008, TTRP moved to 11 Upper Wilkie Road as an anchor tenant and co-founded Emily Hill Enterprise Ltd, together with four other artists and organisations. As part of its research work, TTRP also organised the inaugural Asian Intercultural Conference with the theme “Theatre Today: Seeking New Paradigms”.\n\nThe same year, TTRP suspended teaching and training activity.\n\nIn 2011, TTRP relaunched with a new name, Intercultural Theatre Institute (ITI).\n\nIn 2015, ITI was named a recipient of the National Arts Council Major Grant award.\n\nITI's acting programme is characterised by its performer-centred, practice-oriented training that emphasises intercultural work and original creation. It immerses students in classical theatre forms from Asia — such as Beijing Opera, Kutiyattam, Noh Theatre and Wayang Wong — and juxtaposes these intense interactions with Stanislavskian and post-Stanislavskian actor training techniques. The process of skills acquisition and recombination takes place in a plural, intercultural environment with a variety of languages, multiple cultures and a broad, inclusive theatrical palette.\n\nIts aim is to train professional actors and performers capable of working in a variety of contemporary theatre genres and forms as well as the creation of original, critically aware and socially engaging works.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55893296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55893296", "title": "International School of Almaty", "text": "International School of Almaty\n\nThe International School of Almaty (ISA) in Kazakhstan is a branch of the \"Education Fund of Nursultan Nazarbayev\". The school provides education on integrated programs of the state educational standard of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Baccalaureate of primary and basic schools from the 1st to the 11th grade.\n\nIn 2017 the school was admitted to the UNESCO Associated Schools. The International School of Almaty hosts an annual contest of social and creative projects of UNESCO Associated Schools.\n\nThe director of the International School of Almaty is Akasheva Zhibek Zekenovna, a Honored Worker of Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan, laureate of Tarlan Prize.\nThe coordinator of international programs is Bazarbayeva Roza Kasymovna.\n\nIn 2000, the school became the first in Kazakhstan to be authorized by the International Baccalaureate Organization for the Middle Years Program.\nIn 2013, the school was authorized for the Primary Years Program, an elementary school program.\nSince 2009, the school has been certified as a member of the Cambridge Educational Group.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10416781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10416781", "title": "Journal ranking", "text": "Journal ranking\n\nJournal ranking is widely used in academic circles in the evaluation of an academic journal's impact and quality. Journal rankings are intended to reflect the place of a journal within its field, the relative difficulty of being published in that journal, and the prestige associated with it. They have been introduced as official research evaluation tools in several countries.\n\nTraditionally, journal ranking “measures” or evaluations have been provided simply through institutional lists established by academic leaders or through committee vote. These approaches have been notoriously politicized and inaccurate reflections of actual prestige and quality, as they would often reflect the biases and personal career objectives of those involved in ranking the journals; also causing the problem of highly disparate evaluations across institutions. Consequently, many institutions have required external sources of evaluation of journal quality. The traditional approach here has been through surveys of leading academics in a given field, but this approach too has potential for bias, though not as profound as that seen with institution-generated lists Consequently, governments, institutions, and leaders in scientometric research have turned to a litany of observed bibliometric measures on the journal-level that can be used as surrogates for quality and thus eliminate the need for subjective assessment\n\nConsequently, several journal-level metrics have been proposed, most citation-based:\n\nSeveral national and international rankings of journals exist, e.g.:\nThey have been introduced as official research evaluation tools in several countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "21367432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21367432", "title": "Kunstgewerbeschule", "text": "Kunstgewerbeschule\n\nA Kunstgewerbeschule (English: \"School of arts and crafts\" or \"school of applied arts\") was a type of vocational arts school that existed in German-speaking countries from the mid-19th century. The term Werkkunstschule was also used for these schools. From the 1920s and after World War II, most of them either merged into universities or closed, although some continued until the 1970s.\n\nStudents generally started at these schools from the ages of 16 to 20 years old, although sometimes as young as 14, and undertook a four-year course, in which they were given a general education and also learnt specific arts and craft skills such as weaving, metalwork, painting, sculpting, etc.\n\nSome of the most well known artists of the period had been Kunstgewerbeschule students, including Anni Albers, Peter Behrens, René Burri, Otto Dix, Horst P. Horst, Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka, Egon Schiele and Oskar Schlemmer. Many students accepted into the renowned Bauhaus art school had previously studied at Kunstgewerbeschulen.\n\nIn order of date opened:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring the Nazi period, in 1936, the school was renamed the \"Meisterschule des deutschen Handwerks der Reichshauptstadt\" (Master school of German trades of the imperial capital city). After the war it was again renamed as the \"Meisterschule für das Kunsthandwerk\" (Master school for arts and crafts). In 1952 it moved into a building on what is now the Straße des 17. Juni, which now belongs to the Berlin University of the Arts. In 1964 the art school was called the \"Staatliche Werkkunstschule\", and from 1966 the \"Staatliche Akademie für Werkkunst und Mode\" (State academy for applied arts and fashion). In 1971, it was integrated into the \"Hochschule für Bildende Künste\". In 1975, this became the \"Hochschule der Künste Berlin\", which since 2001 has been the \"Universität der Künste Berlin (UdK)\" (Berlin University of the Arts).\nA separate school, on a neighbouring site, the \"Großherzoglich-Sächsische Kunstschule Weimar\" (Weimar Saxon Grand Ducal Art School), was founded in 1860 and 1910 it became a higher education institute named the \"Großherzoglich Sächsische Hochschule für Bildende Kunst\" (Grand Ducal School for Fine Arts).\n\nIn 1919 the buildings used by the former \"Kunstgewerbeschule\" and the neighbouring \"Hochschule für Bildende Kunst\" became the base of the newly founded Bauhaus art school. The buildings, designed by Henry van de Velde between 1904 and 1911, are now part of the Bauhaus World Heritage site.\n\nThe Bauhaus in Weimar closed in 1925 and reopened in Dessau in 1926. The buildings in Weimar were used by successor arts related educational institutions. There were also other art schools, at other sites, in Weimar, including the \"Fürstliche freie Zeichenschule Weimar\" (Weimar Princely Free Drawing School), which existed from 1776-1930, and the \"Staatliche Bauschule Weimar\" (State Architecture / Building Trades School). After various mergers, restructurings and renamings, the present day Bauhaus-Universität Weimar, founded in 1996 after German reunification, operates on the former Bauhaus site, teaching art and design related courses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35280558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35280558", "title": "List of forestry technical schools", "text": "List of forestry technical schools\n\nThis is a list of secondary, tertiary and technical schools, and practical training institutes around the world offering one- or two-year forestry technician and related degrees, diplomas or certificates, grouped by continent and country.\n\n\"(For higher educational institutions offering bachelor's, master's or doctoral degrees in forestry and related fields see: List of forestry universities and colleges.)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(alphabetized by state)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11405675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11405675", "title": "Mark Robson (American writer)", "text": "Mark Robson (American writer)\n\nMark Robson is a writer who was born in Scotland and who now lives in Lafayette, Louisiana. He is currently working on film projects with his production partner, Leigh Hennessy, and he has co-authored two recent books with Leigh Hennessy: \"The Day of the Cajundome Mega-Shelter\" and \"Don't Get Stuck on Stupid\" (also with General Russel Honore.\n\nRobson holds a Ph.D. in English Literature from the University of Louisiana at Lafayette (formerly known as the University of Southwestern Louisiana) and was Assistant Professor of English and Theater at Graceland University in Iowa. He was artistic director of the Eavesdrop Theater in Lafayette, Louisiana, one of the nation's premier playwrights' theaters of the era. As a playwright, director, and actor, he was involved in dozens of productions in Louisiana and across the United States. Several of his one-act plays were performed in Off-Off Broadway theaters in New York, including <nowiki>“Home at Last,\"</nowiki> which won the playwriting award at the Deep South Writers Conference. He also directed and acted in Off-Off Broadway plays in New York.\n\nIn addition to his work in theater, Robson is an acclaimed expert in United States coins and stamps. He has written extensively about all aspects of coins and stamps, and from 2000 to 2003 he was a guest host on ShopNBC television coin shows, under the name of <nowiki>“Dr. Mark.”</nowiki>\n\nDuring his years at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, Robson played soccer and coached the men's soccer team to its first conference championship (Louisiana Regional Soccer League). He has maintained an interest in sports and enjoys long-distance running. He has completed several marathons, including the New York City Marathon and Boston Marathon, and he won the men's race in the Marathon to Marathon Half Marathon in Iowa in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857549", "title": "Media Lab Helsinki", "text": "Media Lab Helsinki\n\nThe Media Lab is a unit focusing on digital design within the Department of Media at the School of Arts, Design and Architecture, Aalto University in Espoo, Finland. The lab provides MA and Doctoral education, and does research on design and production of digital culture, digital media, interaction design and technologies and the effect they have on society. Media Lab is a coordinator and a partner in number of international research, design and development projects focusing on digital technology, media and culture.\n\nMedia Lab was founded in 1993. The first MA program was started in 1994 and the first research group assembled in 1996. Since its formation the Media Lab has been part of a relatively active digital culture scene in Helsinki and its surroundings.\n\nSince 1995 Media Lab has collaborated in, generated and coordinated research and development projects funded by the European Commission, Tekes (the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation), Nordic Council, UNESCO and a number of industrial partners, including Nokia, Elisa, TeliaSonera, Sanoma, YLE and MTV3.\n\nIn 1998 the lab became an official department at the university, having existed as a separate unit until then.\n\nIn January 2000 the Media Centre Lume – the National Research and Development Center of audiovisual media – was officially opened. Lume is located in the same premises as the Media Lab and offers its resources for study and research projects carried out in the Lab. Experimental and interactive video productions are common in Lume.\n\nIn 2003, the Ministry of Education Finland chose Media Lab as one of the national top educational units.\n\nIn 2006 Media Lab was invited to the Ars Electronica. The \"Beta Lounge\", Campus Exhibition presented over 20 works by Media Lab's MA, DA and alumni students and its four research groups.\n\n2008 saw the beginnings of Aalto University, a new university. Aalto is the fusion of the University of Art and Design Helsinki where Media Lab is located, Helsinki School of Economics and Helsinki University of Technology.\n\nIn 2010, as part of Aalto reorganisation, the Media Lab joined forces with Photography and Graphic Design, formerly of the Visual Culture department, to create a new, larger Department of Media with the School of Arts, Design and Architecture.\n\nMedia Lab offers Master of Arts and Doctor of Arts (equivalent to PhD) programmes in New Media Design, Sound in New Media and New Media with specialization to Game Design and Production. Teaching is in English and about 40% of students are non-Finns (2015).\n\nThere are four research groups inside the Media Lab:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19402972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19402972", "title": "Nepal Youth Foundation", "text": "Nepal Youth Foundation\n\nFreeing 12,000 girls from indentured servitude has been a major accomplishment of the Nepal Youth Foundation (NYF) a U.S.-based nonprofit organization. The mission of NYF is to provide children in Nepal with education, housing, medical care, and support.\n\nNYF was founded in 1990 by Olga Murray after she retired from a career as an attorney for the California Supreme Court. First called the Nepalese Youth Opportunity Foundation (NYOF), the name was later changed to the current one. In 2012, Som Paneru, who joined NYF in 1993 as a program assistant, was elected president of the organization. Olga Murray is Honorary Board President and Founder. NYF rescues and supports children in Nepal through a range of programs. The Nepal Youth Foundation's partners are private foundations and individuals around the world and non-governmental organizations in Nepal. The Nepal Youth Foundation also partners with UniversalGiving, an online nonprofit organization to raise fund for its projects.\n\nNYF has earned its eighth consecutive 4-star rating, the highest possible, from Charity Navigator for its efficient use of donations. Fewer than 1% of charities earn eight consecutive 4-star ratings. In addition, NYF has earned five stars and a spot on the \"2014 Top-Rated\" list at GreatNonprofits.org, the leading online consumer review site for charity organizations.\n\nSevere floods hit Nepal mid-August, 2014, leaving hundreds of families without shelter and basic necessities. NYF and its supporters raised over $32,000 and by August 31, NYF’s distribution of flood relief supplies had reached 831 families in the Bardiya and Banke districts. Of these, 137 are the families of former Kamlari girls, and 76 of them became completely homeless.\n\nNYF was the first humanitarian organization to reach out to these villages and distribute a complete set of relief materials. The team was led by Man Bahadur Chhetri, Regional Manager of NYF’s Empowering Freed Kamlaris program. The distribution was organized in coordination with the Red Cross and the local government, which provided security to ensure the process was safe and fair.\n\nIn addition to the relief support, NYF has designated $29,000 to rebuild two schools destroyed by the flood, one in Dang District and another in Bardiya District. This project is in coordination with District Education Office of the government and local people.\n\nOn June 27, 2013 the government of Nepal declared the abolition of the Kamlari system, a major development in NYF's 13-year campaign to end child slavery. This means the government is finally committed to enforcing existing laws that have long been ignored, a move prompted by the growing power of the freed Kamlari girls and a shift in the attitudes of people throughout Nepal.\n\nIn parts of Western Nepal, many indigenous families subsist as farm laborers. Unable to make ends meet, thousands of them have been forced to sell their daughters to work in faraway cities as bonded servants. An ABC News report states that many of the girls, who are as young as six, never return home, while others are abused or forced into prostitution. Very few of the girls ever attend school. The fathers receive an average of US$50 a year for their daughters’ services, and the girls get nothing.\n\nThe Nepal Youth Foundation's Indentured Daughters Program works with local communities to encourage parents to bring their daughters home from the city and provides a piglet or goat which the families can raise and sell. NYF then ensures the girls attend local schools. Over 12,000 have been rescued and this year NYF is serving 8,000 girls and young women with 18 full-time staff providing mentoring and training services and coordinating the delivery of specialized services in conjunction with other NYF programs. There are still about 300 girls who have not yet been rescued.\n\nAt the Nepal Youth Foundation's Nutritional Rehabilitation Homes, children who are severely malnourished are restored to health while their parents are educated in child nutrition, hygiene and care. NYF funds and manages 12 residential rehabilitation centers for extremely malnourished children, in Kathmandu and in rural areas of Nepal. The children and their mothers live at these centers for an average of five weeks. By the time they leave, the child is in good health and normal weight, and the parent is educated in child care, including preparation of nutritious meals using foods readily available in rural Nepal. NYF's field workers later follow up in the villages.\n\nSince 1998, the NRHs have rescued over 5,000 mother-child pairs. Each year more than 1,000 children's lives are transformed by this project. At the urging of the Ministry of Health, NYF is establishing NRHs throughout the country. These are established on the grounds of zonal hospitals, which draw patients from a wide rural area. There are 14 such hospitals in Nepal and NYF plans to build and operate an NRH at each of them.\n\nThe Nepal Youth Foundation provides scholarships for children who have no other way to attend school. The organization supports thousands of youngsters from kindergarten through medical school. These students attend private and government schools in the city of Kathmandu and in rural villages that are often more than a day’s walk from any road. In rural areas, this is usually the first generation to receive an education. The cost is only about $100 a year per child. An education will best prepare these youngsters for the very difficult future that awaits them, since an increasing number of the next generation in Nepal’s overpopulated hills will inherit no land and will have no choice but to compete for jobs in the cities.\n\nThe scholarships motivate parents other than those whose children NYF supports to send their children to school, too. There is social pressure in the village when some kids go to school and others do not. NYF also trains teachers and builds and improves schools.\n\nNYF's Vocational Education and Career Counseling Center (VECC) sponsors children in training programs for dozens of different careers, such as website designer, hotel manager, nurse-midwife, electrician, cook, and lab technician, and the number continues to grow. VECC also provides career counseling to needy children. Many of the children supported by NYF, particularly those at J and K House, are orphans or were abandoned by their families.\nNYF also helps educate disabled children who rarely have an opportunity to become productive members of society. Only 30% are educated. NYF supports dozens of blind, deaf and physically disabled youngsters in school, the large majority of them in special boarding schools at a cost of around $300 per child per year.\n\nCrews began construction of a new children’s village last month. The complex will have houses for boys and girls, a dining hall, two hostels for the teenagers, farmland, large play area, a vocational education center and a guest house.The Nepal Youth Foundation presently operates two homes for approximately 40 children: J House (for boys) and K house (for girls). These children are orphans, were abandoned by their parents, or are disabled. On July 20, 2014, surrounded by their J&K House brothers and sisters and other well-wishers, five children laid the cornerstone of their new home. The project is expected to be completed by October 2015.\n\nNYF provides these children with personal attention, as well as education and medical expenses. NYF commits to provide for these children through college. Most of the children are sponsored by donors in Western countries.\n\nRevenue for the fiscal year ended June 2014 was $3.3 million. Of that, 81% was used to help needy children in Nepal. Only 19% was spent on administration and fundraising, which includes processing donations, applying for grants, and staying in contact with donors. This has earned NYF 8th consecutive four-star rating, the highest possible, from Charity Navigator, America’s largest independent evaluator of charities.\n\n"}
{"id": "15399799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15399799", "title": "Olga Averino", "text": "Olga Averino\n\nOlga Averino (November 15, 1895 – January 17, 1989) was a Russian-born soprano and voice teacher. A white émigré to the United States in the wake of the Russian Civil War, she was prominent in the musical life of Boston for over 60 years, first as a singer and later as a distinguished voice teacher.\n\nOlga Averino was born into a family of musicians in Moscow in 1895. Her father, Nicholas Averino, was a violist and director of the music conservatory in Rostov. Her mother, Olga Laroche, was a pianist, the daughter of the Russian musicologist Herman Laroche and the god-daughter of the composer Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky. Averino, herself was the god-daughter of the composer's brother Modest Ilyich Tchaikovsky. She trained in piano and voice at the Moscow Conservatory and married the violinist Paul Fedorovsky.\n\nIn 1918, the Bolshevik Revolution and ensuing civil war led the young couple to flee Russia with their baby daughter. They travelled across Siberia to Vladivostok and down into Manchuria. After living in Beijing for several years, they eventually made their way to the United States, settling in Boston in 1924 where Fedorovsky became a violinist in the Boston Symphony Orchestra; Averino appeared frequently as a soprano soloist.\n\nShe was a regular soloist with the Boston Symphony during the Koussvitzky era. Amongst the many works in which she performed there, were Beethoven's \"9th Symphony\", Bach's \"Mass in B Minor\", Ravel's \"Sheherazade\", Debussy's \"Martyrdom of St. Sebastian\", and the American premiére of Alban Berg's \"Lied der Lulu\". During her long career as a performer she sang in lieder, oratorio and opera and worked with many prominent 20th century composers including Ravel, Schoenberg, Stravinsky, Rachmaninoff, and Glazunov.\n\nShe was a noted recitalist and is credited with having established the success of Ravel's \"Chansons madecasses\" in the United States. She also toured the United States in a series of joint recitals with the cellist Gregor Piatigorsky, where her accompanist was Alexander Siloti, the last pupil of Franz Liszt.\n\nOlga Averino taught voice at the Longy School of Music, Middlebury College, Wellesley College, and The New School of Music. She also gave a lecture series at Harvard University. However, she is most closely associated with the Longy School, where she was the head of the voice department from 1938–76, returning occasionally for master classes after her retirement, the last of which she gave in 1987. It was also at the Longy School that she gave her final public recital, at age 74.\n\nAmong her many pupils, perhaps the most prominent was American soprano, Phyllis Curtin, who studied voice with Averino at Wellesley College during the 1940s. Curtin said of her teacher:\n\nImpatient of sloppy musicianship, demanding emotional commitment, she gave me a vision of the art of singing that led me the rest of my life. On the few occasions when she sang, I learned what a great singing artist is.\n\nHer charismatic teaching style was also recalled by composer and critic, Greg Sandow, who studied under her at the Longy School:\n\n[She] would bring her students all together for a class. Somebody would sing, and, in her Russian accent, Olga typically would ask, 'What emotion does the person in the song feel?' 'The person in the song is angry,' the student would reply. 'But which kind of anger?' Olga would demand, and then sing the opening of the song six times, in six precisely differentiated shades of anger, as distinct as six different people.\n\nOlga Averino and Paul Fedorovsky's daughter Irina Lasoff (1918 – 2006) became a noted choreographer and teacher.\n\nFollowing her husband's death in 1958, Averino moved from their home in Boston's Back Bay to an apartment in Cambridge where she continued to teach private pupils until a few days before her death. Olga Averino died in her sleep in Cambridge at the age of 93.\n\n\nOlga Averino, \"Principles and Art of Singing\", Novis, 1989 \n\nAverino wrote \"Principles and Art of Singing\" in the late 1970s and continued to revise it through 1987, circulating mimeographed copies amongst her students and friends. The book, edited by her daughter, Irina Lasoff, was finally published posthumously in late 1989. The final words of the book are a summation of her teaching philosophy:\n\nSinging is an expression of life, and if you have no time for your life, how can you sing? Quality always needs time, not only in music but also in life itself.\n\nFurther Sources\n\n"}
{"id": "31785419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31785419", "title": "Paul Rowlett", "text": "Paul Rowlett\n\nProfessor Paul Rowlett is a specialist in French linguistics and was the last head of the School of Humanities, Languages and Social Sciences at Salford University. He is also the editor of the Philological Society's peer-reviewed linguistics journal \"Transactions of the Philological Society\" and a member of the editorial board of the \"Journal of French Language Studies\". He is the author of three books: \"The Syntax of French\" (2007), \"The French Language Today: A Linguistic Introduction\" (2000) and \"Sentential Negation in French\" (1998).\n"}
{"id": "2393209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2393209", "title": "Pavel Gerdt", "text": "Pavel Gerdt\n\nPavel Andreyevich Gerdt (), also known as Paul Gerdt (near Saint Petersburg, Russia, 22 November 1844 – Vamaloki, Finland, 12 August 1917), was the \"Premier Danseur Noble\" of the Imperial Ballet, the Bolshoi Kamenny Theatre, and the Mariinsky Theatre for 56 years, making his debut in 1860, and retiring in 1916. His daughter Elisaveta Gerdt was also a prominent ballerina and teacher.\n\nGerdt studied under Christian Johansson, Alexander Pimenov (a pupil of the legendary Charles Didelot), and with Jean-Antoine Petipa (Marius Petipa's father, a master of the old pantomime and a student of Auguste Vestris). He was known as the \"Blue Cavalier\" of the Saint Petersburg stage, creating the roles of nearly every lead male character throughout the latter half of the 19th century, among them Prince Désiré in \"Sleeping Beauty\" and Prince Coqueluche in \"The Nutcracker\". Nobody in the theatre knew his real age, and when asked, he would always say that he was 23.\n\nAmong his pupils at the Imperial Ballet School were Michel Fokine, Vaslav Nijinsky, Tamara Karsavina, George Balanchine, and Anna Pavlova, to whom he taught the soaring leap of Marie Taglioni and Carlotta Grisi.\n\n"}
{"id": "31067769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31067769", "title": "Philanthropinum", "text": "Philanthropinum\n\nThe Philanthropinum (\"from Greek: φιλος = friend, and ανθροπος = human\") was a reformist, progressive school in Dessau, Germany from 1774 to 1793. It was based on the principles of philanthropinism, an educational movement developed in the German-speaking area during the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nThe Philanthropinum, or \"School of Philanthropy,\" was founded on 27 December 1774 by the German educational reformers Johann Bernhard Basedow (1724–1790) and Christian Heinrich Wolke (1741–1825). Basedow was influenced by ideas on childhood and education as proposed by John Locke (1632-1704) and Jean-Jacques Rousseau (1712-1778). At the beginning the Philanthropinum had only one teacher and three students, but numbers rapidly grew as its reputation spread beyond Dessau. Prince Franz supported the school, both financially and with his gift of the Palais Dietrich as a venue.\n\nThe Philanthropinum was, apart from Basedow and Wolke, also shaped by reformers such as Ernst Christian Trapp (1745–1818), the first Professor of Education, and Christian Gotthilf Salzmann (1744–1811). From 1779 to 1787, August Friedrich Wilhelm Crome (1753–1833) worked at the school. Artist Carl Wilhelm Kolbe (1759–1835) taught art and French at the school from 1780 to 1782 and 1782 to 1784. Basedow and Wolke tried to persuade businessman and educational pioneer Johann Peter Hundeiker (1751–1836) to teach at the school - he turned down their request, but went on to found his own school in Vechelde near Braunschweig inspired by the Dessau model. Poet Friedrich von Matthisson and artist Friedrich Rehberg also found employment here.\n\nIn 1776, Basedow stepped down as head of the institution. His successor was Joachim Heinrich Campe (1746–1818), but he quit in 1777 due to conflict with the younger teachers, and went on to found a similar school in Hamburg. Afterwards the school was run by a board of directors. In 1777, Prince Franz made parts of the Palais Dietrich available for the use of the school, and from 1780 to 1793 the school was allowed to occupy the entire palace.\n\nThe first three students included Prince Frederick of Anhalt-Dessau (1769–1814). At its peak in 1782–83, the Philanthropinum had 53 pupils, usually from families with enlightened parents, some of whom came from western, northern and eastern Europe. Immanuel Kant was a great supporter of the school, calling for a \"quick revolution\" in education rather than \"slow reform\".\n\nIn 1793, the Philanthropinum closed, quietly, after the number of students decreased greatly. The concept behind the school, however, was the model for a large number of similar establishments; in Germany alone, over 60 similar schools were founded: For example, Carl Gottfried Neuendorf (1750–1798), who had taught for a while at the Philanthropinum, went on to found the \"Hauptschule\" in Dessau in 1786; Christian Gotthilf Salzmann (1744–1811) founded another school in Schnepfenthal. Other similar institutions were to be found in France, Switzerland, Russia and North America.\n\nAdmission of students to the school was regardless of sex, religion or state. Though education for all was the ideal, notions of class still prevailed, and children from richer families spent more time on academic subjects, while those from less-wealthy backgrounds did more manual work. However, all learnt handicrafts and were expected to take part in games and physical exercise. There was a practical approach to education, which was conceived as serving useful and needful ends, and using practical examples where possible. The natural instincts and interests of the children were directed rather than suppressed, while school uniform was designed to be practical and not restrictive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008043", "title": "Pit school", "text": "Pit school\n\nA pit school was a covert school for African American children from the time when they were prevented from receiving an education due to repression and lack of freedom of assembly.\n\nThese schools were held at night. A pit would be dug and covered over.\n\nA pit school is referred to in the book \"Nightjohn\" by Gary Paulsen.\n\n"}
{"id": "153981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153981", "title": "Postgraduate education", "text": "Postgraduate education\n\nPostgraduate education, or graduate education in North America, involves learning and studying for academic or professional degrees, academic or professional certificates, academic or professional diplomas, or other qualifications for which a first or bachelor's degree generally is required, and it is normally considered to be part of higher education. In North America, this level is generally referred to as graduate school (or sometimes colloquially as grad school).\n\nThe organization and structure of postgraduate education varies in different countries, as well as in different institutions within countries. This article outlines the basic types of courses and of teaching and examination methods, with some explanation of their history.\n\nThere are two main types of degrees studied for at the postgraduate level: academic and vocational degrees.\n\nThe term \"degree\" in this context means the moving from one stage or level to another (from French \"degré\", from Latin \"dē-\" + \"gradus\"), and first appeared in the 13th century.\n\nAlthough systems of higher education date back to ancient Greece, ancient Rome, China, ancient India and Arabian Peninsula, the concept of \"postgraduate\" education depends upon the system of awarding degrees at different levels of study, and can be traced to the workings of European medieval universities, mostly Italians. University studies took six years for a bachelor's degree and up to twelve additional years for a master's degree or doctorate. The first six years taught the faculty of the arts, which was the study of the seven liberal arts: arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, music theory, grammar, logic, and rhetoric. The main emphasis was on logic. Once a Bachelor of Arts degree had been obtained, the student could choose one of three faculties—law, medicine, or theology—in which to pursue master's or doctor's degrees.\n\nThe degrees of master (from Latin \"magister\") and doctor (from Latin \"doctor\") were for some time equivalent, \"the former being more in favour at Paris and the universities modeled after it, and the latter at Bologna and its derivative universities. At Oxford and Cambridge a distinction came to be drawn between the Faculties of Law, Medicine, and Theology and the Faculty of Arts in this respect, the title of Doctor being used for the former, and that of Master for the latter.\" Because theology was thought to be the highest of the subjects, the doctorate came to be thought of as higher than the master's.\n\nThe main significance of the higher, postgraduate degrees was that they licensed the holder to teach (\"doctor\" comes from Latin \"docere\", \"to teach\").\n\nIn most countries, the hierarchy of postgraduate degrees is as follows:\n\n\nIn some countries such as Finland and Sweden, there is the degree of Licentiate, which is more advanced than a master's degree but less so than a Doctorate. Credits required are about half of those required for a doctoral degree. Coursework requirements are the same as for a doctorate, but the extent of original research required is not as high as for doctorate. Medical doctors for example are typically licentiates instead of doctors.\n\nIn the UK and countries whose education systems were founded on the British model, such as the US, the master's degree was for a long time the only postgraduate degree normally awarded, while in most European countries apart from the UK, the master's degree almost disappeared. In the second half of the 19th century, however, US universities began to follow the European model by awarding doctorates, and this practice spread to the UK. Conversely, most European universities now offer master's degrees parallelling or replacing their regular system, so as to offer their students better chances to compete in an international market dominated by the American model.\n\nIn the UK, an equivalent formation to doctorate is the NVQ 5 or QCF 8.\n\nMost universities award honorary degrees, usually at the postgraduate level. These are awarded to a wide variety of people, such as artists, musicians, writers, politicians, businesspeople, etc., in recognition of their achievements in their various fields. (Recipients of such degrees do not normally use the associated titles or letters, such as \"Dr\".)\n\nPostgraduate education can involve studying for qualifications such as postgraduate certificates and postgraduate diplomas. They are sometimes used as steps on the route to a degree, as part of the training for a specific career, or as a qualification in an area of study too narrow to warrant a full degree course.\n\nIn Argentina, the admission to a Postgraduate program at an Argentine University requires the full completion of any undergraduate course, called in Argentina \"carrera de grado\" (v.gr. Licenciado, Ingeniero or Lawyer degree). The qualifications of 'Licenciado', 'Ingeniero', or the equivalent qualification in Law degrees (a graduate from a \"carrera de grado\") are similar in content, length and skill-set to a joint first and second cycles in the qualification framework of the Bologna Process (that is, Bachelor and Master qualifications).\n\nWhile a significant portion of postgraduate students finance their tuition and living costs with teaching or research work at private and state-run institutions, international institutions, such as the Fulbright Program and the Organization of American States (OAS), have been known to grant full scholarships for tuition with apportions for housing.\n\nUpon completion of at least two years' research and coursework as a postgraduate student, a candidate must demonstrate truthful and original contributions to his or her specific field of knowledge within a frame of academic excellence. The Master and Doctoral candidate's work should be presented in a dissertation or thesis prepared under the supervision of a tutor or director, and reviewed by a postgraduate Committee. This Committee should be composed of examiners external to the program, and at least one of them should also be external to the institution.\n\nProgrammes are divided into coursework-based and research-based degrees. Coursework programs typically include qualifications such as \n\nResearch degrees generally consist of either Masters or Doctorate programs. In some disciplines it is acceptable to go straight from the undergraduate degree into a Ph.D. program if one achieves a very good Honors degree (see Admissions below), and in others, it may be encouraged or expected or simply advantageous in varying amounts for the student to first undertake a research Masters before applying to Ph.D. programs. Research master's degrees may be still called an M.A. or M.Sc., like a course work Masters, or may have a special appellation, e.g. M.Phil. Doctorate programs may lead to the award of a Ph.D. or a D.Phil. depending on the university or faculty.\n\nThe D.Litt is a higher research degree for exemplary achievement.\n\nGenerally, the Australian higher education system follows that of its British counterpart (with some notable exceptions). Entrance is decided by merit, entrance to coursework-based programmes is usually not as strict; most universities usually require a \"Credit\" average as entry to their taught programmes in a field related to their previous undergraduate. On average, however, a strong \"Credit\" or \"Distinction\" average is the norm for accepted students. Not all coursework programs require the student to already possess the relevant undergraduate degree, they are intended as \"conversion\" or professional qualification programs, and merely any relevant undergraduate degree with good grades is required.\n\nPh.D. entrance requirements in the higher ranked schools typically require a student to have postgraduate research honours or a master's degree by research, or a master's with a significant research component. Entry requirements depend on the subject studied and the individual university. The minimum duration of a Ph.D. programme is two years, but completing within this time span is unusual, with Ph.D.s usually taking an average of three to four years to be completed.\n\nMost of the confusion with Australian postgraduate programmes occurs with the research-based programmes, particularly scientific programmes. Research degrees generally require candidates to have a minimum of a second-class four-year honours undergraduate degree to be considered for admission to a Ph.D. programme (M.Phil. are an uncommon route). In science, a British first class honours (3 years) is not equivalent to an Australian first class honours (1 year research postgraduate programme that requires a completed undergraduate (pass) degree with a high grade-point average). In scientific research, it is commonly accepted that an Australian postgraduate honours is equivalent to a British master's degree (in research). There has been some debate over the acceptance of a three-year honours degree (as in the case of graduates from British universities) as the equivalent entry requirement to graduate research programmes (M.Phil., Ph.D.) in Australian universities. The letters of Honours programmes also added to the confusion. For example: B.Sc. (Hons) are the letters gained for postgraduate research honours at the University of Queensland. B.Sc. (Hons) does not indicate that this honours are postgraduate qualification. The difficulty also arises between different universities in Australia—some universities have followed the UK system.\n\nThere are many professional programs such as medical and dental school require a previous bachelors for admission and are considered graduate or Graduate Entry programs even though they culminate in a bachelor's degree. Example, the Bachelor of Medicine (MBBS) or Bachelor of Dentistry (BDent).\n\nThere has also been some confusion over the conversion of the different marking schemes between British, US, and Australian systems for the purpose of assessment for entry to graduate programmes. The Australian grades are divided into four categories: High Distinction, Distinction, Credit, and Pass (though many institutions have idiosyncratic grading systems). Assessment and evaluation based on the Australian system is not equivalent to British or US schemes because of the \"low-marking\" scheme used by Australian universities. For example, a British student who achieves 70+ will receive an A grade, whereas an Australian student with 70+ will receive a Distinction which is not the highest grade in the marking scheme.\n\nThe Australian government usually offer full funding (fees and a monthly stipend) to its citizens and permanent residents who are pursuing research-based higher degrees. There are also highly competitive scholarships for international candidates who intend to pursue research-based programmes. Taught-degree scholarships (certain master's degrees, Grad. Dip., Grad. Cert., D.Eng., D.B.A.) are almost non-existent for international students, so they are usually required to be self-funded.\n\nRequirements for the successful completion of a taught master's programme are that the student pass all the required modules. Some universities require eight taught modules for a one-year programme, twelve modules for a one-and-a-half-year programme, and twelve taught modules plus a thesis or dissertation for a two-year programme. The academic year for an Australian postgraduate programme is typically two semesters (eight months of study).\n\nRequirements for research-based programmes vary among universities. Generally, however, a student is not required to take taught modules as part of their candidacy. It is now common that first-year Ph.D. candidates are not regarded as permanent Ph.D. students for fear that they may not be sufficiently prepared to undertake independent research. In such cases, an alternative degree will be awarded for their previous work, usually an M.Phil. or M.Sc. by research.\n\nIn Brazil, a Bachelor's, Licenciate or \"Technologist\" degree is required in order to enter a graduate program, called \"pós-graduação\". Generally, in order to be accepted, the candidate must have above average grades and it is highly recommended to be initiated on scientific research through government programs on undergraduate areas, as a complement to usual coursework.\n\nThe competition for public universities is very large, as they are the most prestigious and respected universities in Brazil. Public universities do not charge fees for any level/course. Funding, similar to wages, is available but is usually granted by public agencies linked to the university in question (i.e. FAPESP, CAPES, CNPq, etc.), given to the students previously ranked based on internal criteria.\n\nThere are two types of postgraduate; \"lato sensu\" (Latin for \"in broad sense\"), which generally means a specialization course in one area of study, mostly addressed to professional practice, and \"stricto sensu\" (Latin for \"in narrow sense\"), which means a Master of Science or Doctorate, encompassing broader and profound activities of scientific research.\n\n\nAdmission to a graduate certificate program requires a university degree (or in some cases, a diploma with years of related experience). English speaking colleges require proof of English language proficiency such as IELTS. Some colleges may provide English language upgrading to students prior to the start of their graduate certificate program.\n\nAdmission to a master's (non-thesis) program generally requires a bachelor's degree in a related field, with sufficiently high grades usually ranging from B+ and higher (note that different schools have different letter grade conventions, and this requirement may be significantly higher in some faculties), and recommendations from professors. Admission to a high-quality thesis-type master's program generally requires an \"honours bachelor\" or Canadian \"bachelor with honours\", samples of the student's writing as well as a research thesis proposal. Some programs require Graduate Record Exams (GRE) in both the general examination and the examination for its specific discipline, with minimum scores for admittance. At English-speaking universities, applicants from countries where English is not the primary language are required to submit scores from the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Nevertheless, some French speaking universities, like HEC Montreal, also require candidates to submit TOEFL score or to pass their own English test.\n\nAdmission to a doctoral program generally requires a thesis-type master's degree in a related field, sufficiently high grades, recommendations, samples of writing, a research proposal, and typically an interview with a prospective supervisor. Requirements are often set higher than those for a master's program. In exceptional cases, a student holding an \"honours bachelor\" or Canadian \"bachelor with honours\" with sufficiently high grades and proven writing and research abilities may be admitted directly to a Ph.D. program without the requirement to first complete a master's. Many Canadian graduate programs allow students who start in a master's to \"reclassify\" into a Ph.D. program after satisfactory performance in the first year, bypassing the master's degree. High-performing students may be admitted to the \"Ph.D.2\" (2nd Ph.D. year) of a five-year Ph.D. program if they are holders of one of the rare thesis-type M.A. degrees which require a combined \"M.A./Ph.D.1\" program.\n\nGraduate students must usually declare their research goal or submit a research proposal upon entering grad school; in the case of master's degrees, there will be some flexibility (that is, one is not held to one's research proposal, although major changes, for example from premodern to modern history, are discouraged). In the case of Ph.D.s, the research direction is usually known as it will typically follow the direction of the master's research.\n\nMaster's degrees can possibly be completed in one year but normally take at least two, or in the case of a required research-based thesis a maximum of three; they typically do not exceed five years. Doctoral degrees require a minimum of three years but frequently take much longer, not usually exceeding six years.\n\nGraduate students may take out student loans, but instead they often work as teaching or research assistants. Students often agree, as a condition of acceptance to a programme, not to devote more than twelve hours per week to work or outside interests.\n\nFunding is available to first-year masters students whose transcripts reflect exceptionally high grades; this funding is normally given in the second year.\n\nFunding for Ph.D. students comes from a variety of sources, and many universities waive tuition fees for doctoral candidates.\n\nFunding is available in the form of scholarships, bursaries and other awards, both private and public.\n\nGraduate certificates require between eight and sixteen months of study. The length of study depends on the program. Graduate certificates primarily involve coursework. However, some may require a research project or a work placement.\n\nBoth master's and doctoral programs may be done by coursework or research or a combination of the two, depending on the subject and faculty. Most faculties require both, with the emphasis on research, and with coursework being directly related to the field of research.\n\nMaster's candidates undertaking research are typically required to complete a thesis comprising some original research and ranging from seventy to two-hundred pages. Some fields may require candidates to study at least one foreign language if they have not already earned sufficient foreign-language credits. Some faculties require candidates to defend their thesis, but many do not. Those that do not, often have a requirement of taking two additional courses, at minimum, in lieu of preparing a thesis.\n\nPh.D. candidates undertaking research must typically complete a thesis, or dissertation, consisting of original research representing a significant contribution to their field, and ranging from two-hundred to five-hundred pages. Most Ph.D. candidates will be required to sit comprehensive examinations—examinations testing general knowledge in their field of specialization—in their second or third year as a prerequisite to continuing their studies, and must defend their thesis as a final requirement. Some faculties require candidates to earn sufficient credits in a third or fourth foreign language; for example, most candidates in modern Japanese topics must demonstrate ability in English, Japanese, and Mandarin, while candidates in pre-modern Japanese topics must demonstrate ability in English, Japanese, Classical Chinese, and Classical Japanese.\n\nAt English-speaking Canadian universities, both master's and Ph.D. theses may be presented in English or in the language of the subject (German for German literature, for example), but if this is the case an extensive abstract must be also presented in English. In exceptional circumstances, a thesis may be presented in French. The exception to this rule is McGill University, where all work can be submitted in either English or French, unless the purpose of the course of study is acquisition of a language.\n\nFrench-speaking universities have varying sets of rules; some (e.g. HEC Montreal) will accept students with little knowledge of French if they can communicate with their supervisors (usually in English).\n\nPrior to 2004, when the European system of LMD Bologna process was founded, the French equivalent of a Post Graduate degree was called a \"Maitrise\".\nFor historical reasons dating back to the French Revolution of 1789, France has a dual education system, with Grandes Écoles on one side, and universities on the other hand, with the \"Grandes Écoles\" being considered as much more prestigious. Some Grandes écoles deliver the French diplôme d'ingénieur, which is ranked as a master's degree.\n\nNote that France ranks a professional doctorate in health sciences (i.e. physician, surgeon, dentist, veterinarian diplomas) as equivalent to a master's degree in any other discipline, to account for the difficulty gap between getting a medical degree and getting non health related doctoral degrees, the latter requiring much tougher research.\n\nThere are 87 public universities in France, and also some private universities, and they are based upon the European education ladder including bachelors, Masters, and Ph.D.s. Students gain each degree though the successful completion of a predetermined number of years in education, gaining credits via the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).\nThere are over 300 doctoral programs that collaborate with 1200 research laboratories and centers. Each degree has a certain set of national diplomas that are all of equal value, irrespective of where they were issued. There are also other diplomas that are exclusive to France and are very hard to attain.\n\nIn some programs in the traditional German system and the traditional Dutch system, there is no legal distinction between \"undergraduate\" and \"postgraduate\". In such programs, all education aims towards the master's degree, whether introductory (Bachelor's level) or advanced (master's level). These one-tier programmes take between 4.5 and 5 years.\n\nIn the meantime, Germany introduced the Bologna process with a separation between Bachelor and Master programmes in many fields, except for education studies, law and other specially regulated subjects.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland higher education is operated by the Higher Education Authority.\n\nAdmission to a postgraduate degree programme in Nigeria requires a bachelor's degree with at least a Second Class Lower Division (not less than 2.75/5). Admission to Doctoral programmes requires an Academic master's degree with a minimum weighted average of 60% (B average or 4.00/5). In addition to this, applicants may be subjected to written and oral examinations depending on the school. Most universities with high numbers of applicants have more stringent admission processes.\n\nPostgraduate degrees in Nigeria include M.A., M.Sc., M.Ed., M.Eng., LL.M, M.Arch., M.Agric., M.Phil., PhD. The master's degree typically take 18–36 months with students undertaking coursework and presenting seminars and a dissertation. The doctoral degree is for a minimum of 36 months and may involve coursework alongside the presentation of seminars and a research thesis. Award of postgraduate degrees requires a defence of the completed research before a panel of examiners comprising external and internal examiners, Head of Department, Departmental Postgraduate Coordinator, Representative(s) of Faculty and Postgraduate School, and any other member of staff with a PhD in the department/faculty.\n\nAdmission to undertake a research degree in the UK typically requires a good bachelor's degree, or Scottish M.A., (at least lower second, but usually an upper second or first class). In some institutions Doctoral candidates are initially admitted to a Masters in Research Philosophy (M.Phil. or M.Res.), then later transfer to a Ph.D./D.Phil. if they can show satisfactory progress in their first 8–12 months of study. Candidates for the degree of Doctor of Education (Ed.D) are typically required to hold a good bachelor's degree as well as an appropriate master's degree before being admitted.\n\nFunding for postgraduate study in the UK is awarded competitively, and usually is disseminated by institution (in the form of a certain allocation of studentships for a given year) rather than directly to individuals. There are a number of scholarships for master's courses, but these are relatively rare and dependent on the course and class of undergraduate degree obtained (usually requiring at least a lower second). Most master's students are self-funded.\n\nFunding is available for some Ph.D./D.Phil. courses. As at the master's level, there is more funding available to those in the sciences than in other disciplines. Such funding generally comes from Research Councils such as the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), Medical Research Council (MRC) and others. Masters students may also have the option of a Postgraduate loan introduced by the UK Government in 2016.\nFor overseas students, most major funding applications are due as early as twelve months or more before the intended graduate course will begin. This funding is also often highly competitive. The most widely available, and thus important, award for overseas students is the Overseas Research Student (ORS) Award, which pays the difference in university fees between an overseas student and a British or EU resident. However, a student can only for one university apply for the ORS Award, often before he or she knows whether they have been accepted. As of the 2009/2010 academic year, the HEFCE has cancelled the Overseas Research Student Award scheme for English and Welsh universities. The state of the scheme for Scottish and Northern Irish universities is currently unclear.\n\nStudents studying part-time for a master's degree can apply for income-based Jobseeker's Allowance provided their timetabled hours are fewer than 16 hours per week. This also entitles the student to housing benefit provided by their local council. Full-time students (of any type) are not normally eligible for state benefits, including during vacation time.\n\nAdditionally, doctoral students who have advanced to candidacy but not filed a dissertation (\"ABD,\" for \"all but dissertation\") often receive master's degrees and an additional master's called a Master of Philosophy, or M.Phil., or C.Phil. \"Candidate in Philosophy\" degree. The master's component of a doctorate program often requires one or two years, and some students, because doctoral programs are sometimes better-funded, apply for doctoral programs while only intending to earn a master's degree. This is generally not acceptable and, if a student's advisor learns of the student's plans, can result in early termination.\n\nMany graduate programs require students to pass one or several examinations in order to demonstrate their competence as scholars. In some departments, a comprehensive examination is often required in the first year of doctoral study, and is designed to test a student's background undergraduate-level knowledge. Examinations of this type are more common in the sciences and some social sciences, and relatively unknown in most humanities disciplines.\n\nSome graduate students perform teaching duties, often serving as graders, tutors, or teaching assistants. In some departments, they can be promoted to Lecturer status, a position that comes with more responsibilities.\n\nDoctoral students generally spend roughly their first two to three years doing coursework, and begin research by their second year if not before. Many master's and all specialist students will perform research culminating in a paper, presentation, and defense of their research. This is called the master's thesis (or, for Educational Specialist students, the specialist paper). However, many US master's degree programs do not require a master's thesis, focusing instead primarily on course work or on \"practicals\" or \"workshops\". Such \"real-world\" experience may typically require a candidate work on a project alone or in a team as a consultant, or consultants, for an outside entity approved or selected by the academic institution, and under faculty supervision.\n\nIn the second and third years of study, doctoral programs often require students to pass more examinations. Programs often require a Qualifying Examination (\"Quals\"), a Ph.D. Candidacy Examination (\"Candidacy\"), or a General Examination (\"Generals\") designed to test the students' grasp of a broad sample of their discipline, or one or several Special Field Examinations (\"Specials\") which test students in their narrower selected areas of specialty within the discipline. If these examinations are held orally, they may be known colloquially as \"orals\". For some social science and many humanities disciplines, where graduate students may or may not have studied the discipline at the undergraduate level, these exams will be the first set, and be based either on graduate coursework or specific preparatory reading (sometimes up to a year's work in reading). In all cases, comprehensive exams are normally both stressful and time-consuming and must be passed to be allowed to proceed on to the thesis. Passing such examinations allows the student to stay, begin doctoral research, and rise to the status of a doctoral candidate while failing usually results in the student leaving the program or re-taking the test after some time has passed (usually a semester or a year). Some schools have an intermediate category, passing at the master's level, which allows the student to leave with a master's without having completed a master's thesis.\n\nFor the next several years, the doctoral candidate primarily performs his or her research. Usually this lasts three to eight years, though a few finish more quickly and some take substantially longer. In total, the typical doctoral degree takes between four and eight years from entering the program to completion though this time varies depending upon the department, thesis topic, and many other factors.\n\nFor example, astronomy degrees take five to six years on average, but observational astronomy degrees take six to seven due to limiting factors of weather, while theoretical astronomy degrees take five. Though there is substantial variation among universities, departments, and individuals, humanities and social science doctorates on average take somewhat longer to complete than natural science doctorates. These differences are due to the differing nature of research between the humanities and some social sciences and the natural sciences, and to the differing expectations of the discipline in coursework, languages and length of thesis. However, time required to complete a doctorate also varies according to the candidate's abilities and choice of research. Some students may also choose to remain in a program if they fail to win an academic position, particularly in disciplines with a tight job market; by remaining a student, they can retain access to libraries and university facilities, while also retaining an academic affiliation, which can be essential for conferences and job-searches.\n\nTraditionally, doctoral programs were only intended to last three to four years and, in some disciplines (primarily the natural sciences), with a helpful advisor, and a light teaching load, it is possible for the degree to be completed in that amount of time. However, increasingly many disciplines, including most humanities, set their requirements for coursework, languages and the expected extent of thesis research by the assumption that students will take five years minimum or six to seven years on average; competition for jobs within these fields also raises expectations on the length and quality of theses considerably.\n\nIn some disciplines, doctoral programs can average seven to ten years. Archaeology, which requires long periods of research, tends towards the longer end of this spectrum. The increase in length of degree is a matter of great concern for both students and universities, though there is much disagreement on potential solutions to this problem. \n\nThere are also discipline-specific differences. A person applying for a doctoral program in Biblical studies or theology from a seminary or theological school must already hold a first professional degree in the field, known as the Master of Divinity degree (M.Div.). The M.Div. is a three-year master's program, however, a thesis is usually not required before completion. The M.Div. is the entry degree for the Doctor of Ministry degree (D.Min) or the Ph.D. \n\nThe D.Min degree is a second professional degree, which includes two years of study and one to two years of research and a project in the candidates local area of work. The Ph.D. degree in this area follows other Ph.D. programs with two years of seminars, comprehensive exams (usually not oral), and then if a person passes the exam, a dissertation. An alternative terminal degree after the M.Div. is a Master's of Theology (Th.M). a Th.M is one year of seminary study followed by a shorter thesis (usually around one hundred pages) that does not necessarily have to be a unique contribution to the field (unlike a dissertation). A person who fails the comprehensive exam in this discipline may also be awarded a Th.M. \n\nMany departments, especially those in which students have research or teaching responsibilities, offer tuition-forgiveness and a stipend that pays for most expenses. At some elite universities, there may be a minimum stipend established for all Ph.D. students, as well as a tuition waiver. The terms of these stipends vary greatly, and may consist of a scholarship or fellowship, followed by teaching responsibilities. At many elite universities, these stipends have been increasing, in response both to student pressure and, especially, to competition among the elite universities for graduate students.\n\nIn some fields, research positions are more coveted than teaching positions because student researchers are typically paid to work on the dissertation they are required to complete anyway, while teaching is generally considered a distraction from one's work. Research positions are more typical of science disciplines; they are relatively uncommon in humanities disciplines, and where they exist, they rarely allow the student to work on their own research.\n\nDepartments often have money for limited discretionary funding to supplement minor expenses such as research trips and travel to conferences.\n\nA few students can attain outside fellowships such as the National Science Foundation (NSF) and National Physical Science Consortium (NPSC). Funding differs greatly by departments and universities; some universities give five years of full funding to all Ph.D. students, though often with a teaching requirement attached; other universities do not.\n\nForeign students are typically funded the same way as domestic (US) students, although federally subsidized student and parent loans and work-study assistance are generally limited to US citizens and nationals, permanent residents, and approved refugees. Moreover, some funding sources (such as many NSF fellowships) may only be awarded to domestic students. Other factors contributing to possible financial difficulties include high costs to visit their families back home, supporting one's family who is not allowed to work due to immigration laws, tuition that is steep by world standards, and large fees: visa fees by US Citizenship and Immigration Services, surveillance fees (such as Student and Exchange Visitor Information Systems, or SEVIS) by the United States Congress and the United States Department of Homeland Security.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24755565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24755565", "title": "QuickSmart", "text": "QuickSmart\n\nQuickSmart is a basic academic skills program aimed at middle years students in Australia. Two programs using the same approach encourage fast and accurate basic skills in literacy or numeracy.\n\nThe \"QuickSmart\" Numeracy and Literacy programs were developed by John Pegg and Lorraine Graham of the National Centre of Science, Information and Communication Technology and Mathematics Education for Rural and Regional Australia (SiMERR) at the University of New England, Armidale, New South Wales, Australia. These programs began implementation in schools in 2001. By 2009, they were implemented in over 150 primary and high school around Australia. In 2011 approximately 600 schools involving 10,000 students were using QuickSmart.\n\n\"QuickSmart\" aims to reverse the trend of ongoing poor academic performance for students who have been struggling at school and who are caught in a cycle of continued failure. It also includes a professional learning program that provides the opportunity for classroom teachers, special needs support teachers, and teacher aides to discuss and practise ways to significantly improve under-achieving middle school students' learning outcomes in basic mathematics and literacy.\n\n\"QuickSmart\" instructors work in small class instructional settings with two students, for three 30 minute lessons a week, over thirty weeks. They use a specially constructed teaching program supported by extensive material and computer-based resources. The program is called \"QuickSmart\" to encourage students to become quick in their response speed and smart in their understanding and strategy use. In \"QuickSmart\", the aim is to improve students’ information retrieval times to levels that free working memory capacity from an excessive focus on mundane or routine tasks. In these interventions, automaticity is fostered; time, accuracy and understanding are incorporated as key dimensions of learning, and an emphasis is placed on ensuring maximum student on-task time. The lessons help develop the learners’ abilities to monitor their own learning and to set realistic goals for themselves.\n\nIndependent (statewide or standardised tests) assessment results gathered from \"QuickSmart\" and comparison students since 2001 have consistently demonstrated student growth of two to four years’ improvement over a 30-week period as measured by effect size statistics. Interviews and surveys of students, parents, teachers, and principals have gathered consistently positive qualitative data, indicating improvements for \"QuickSmart\" students in class, in their attitudes to school, their attendance rates and their levels of confidence in and out of the classroom.\n\n"}
{"id": "18824572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18824572", "title": "Recognising and Recording Progress and Achievement", "text": "Recognising and Recording Progress and Achievement\n\nRecognising and recording progress and achievement (RARPA), in the education sector in England, is an approach for measuring the progress and achievement of learners on some further education courses which do not lead to an externally accredited award or qualification. The majority of such courses are in the adult and community learning sector and other non-accredited learning settings.\n\nRARPA was developed by a group of practitioners who were considering the issue of how to recognise and validate learning that takes place where there is no accredited qualification as an outcome. The Learning and Skills Council (LSC) commissioned the Learning and Skills Development Agency (LSDA) and the National Institute of Adult Continuing Education (NIACE) to contribute to the development of the measure as part of the 'New Measures of Success'. \n\nRARPA was developed as part of the Learning and Skills Council’s new measures of success. These new measures aim to harmonise the basis for measuring educational achievement, so that the performance of learners in different parts of the learning and skills sector can be more accurately compared.\n\nRARPA is designed to support teaching and learning practices. It claims to help teachers to deliver personalised learning, with a view to ensuring that learning is taking place and that the learner is making progress. RARPA is intended to encourage learners to engage actively by measuring their own progress and achievements.\n\nRARPA is a tool that can serve as a measure of accountability. This means that the learning experience is subject to the formal inspection and quality assurance processes of the further education sector.\n\nThe RARPA approach has five distinct staged processes: aims and objectives, initial assessment, learning objectives, identification of learning, and review and recording.\n\nThe ostensible aims of the course of learning should be communicated clearly to learners before they make a decision about their individual route to achievement.\n\nLearners’ previous achievements, current skills and learning needs should be properly considered before a decision has been made about their particular route to achievement.\n\nA set of learning outcomes should be agreed with each learner that is consistent with their learning goal(s). These outcomes should be based on their identified needs and challenge them to make real progress in their learning achievement There should be opportunities, if necessary, to revise these learning outcomes during the course.\n\nThe progress of learners should be recognised and recorded, through means of formative assessment by the teacher, and by learners themselves.\n\nLearners should be given regular opportunities to assess progress towards their learning outcomes and to review their planned route to achievement. Learners’ success in reaching their planned goal(s) should be recognised through a process appropriate to their needs that summarises their achievements and identifies possible future goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1761558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1761558", "title": "Retraining", "text": "Retraining\n\nRefresher/Retraining is the process of learning a new or the same old skill or trade for the same group of personnel. Refresher/Retraining is required to be provided on regular basis to avoid personnel obsolescence due to technological changes & the individuals memory capacity. This short term instruction course shall serve to re-acquaint personnel with skills previously learnt (recall to retain the potentials) or to bring one's knowledge or skills up-to-date (latest) so that skills stay sharp. This kind of training could be provided annually or more frequently as maybe required, based on the importance of consistency of the task of which the skill is involved. Examples of refreshers are cGMP, GDP, HSE trainings. Retraining(repetition of a training conducted earlier) shall also be conducted for an employee, when the employee is rated as ‘not qualified’ for a skill or knowledge, as determined based on the assessment of answers in the training questionnaire of the employee.\n\nThe need to retrain workers is often thought to apply to older members of the workforce, many of whom saw their occupations disappear and their skills lose value as technology, outsourcing and a weak economy combined to erode their ability to make a living. While older Americans do not face as high a rate of unemployment as the country’s teenagers and young adults, when they do find themselves unemployed, they remain unemployed for more than twice as long as teenagers. \n\nWhile the stereotype for retraining needs is the older worker, youth in the United States and across the European Community (OECD) and Africa suffer from the same problem. The gap between the skills they possess and those that employers are actively seeking is significant and stagnating to their employment prospects. Currently in the United States, psychology, history and the performing arts make up 22% of college degrees earned. Demand for skilled employees, however, is in the areas of technology and engineering, currently at 5% of conferred degrees. “In both Britain and the United States, many people with expensive liberal arts degrees are finding it impossible to get decent jobs,” reports the Economist in its April 27, 2013 issue, adding that in northern Africa, job applicants with degrees face an unemployment level twice that of non-degreed candidates. \n\nWhile technology anxiety and a nervousness about learning new processes and acquiring new skill sets has impacted older workers, younger job seekers are also facing a deficit of “applied soft skills” such as work ethic, social skills, communication and leadership.\n\nThe need for greater partnership and transfer of information between institutions of higher education is essential in reducing the skills gap for old and young people alike. Expanded internships and post-hiring training can help from the employers’ perspective and upgraded and more authentic technical training will help close the gap on the side of educators. The World Bank's 2019 World Development Report on the future of work explains that flexible learning opportunities at universities and adult learning programs that allow workers to retrain and retool are vital in order for labor markets to adjust to the future of work.\n\nThere is some controversy surrounding the use of retraining to offset economic changes caused by free trade and automation. For example, most studies show that displaced factory workers in the United States on the average have lower wages after retraining to other positions when a factory is closed due to offshoring. A similar issue surrounds movement from technical jobs to liaison jobs due to offshore outsourcing. Such changes may also favor certain personality types over others, due to the changing tasks and skills required. Other research estimates that one academic year of such retraining at a community college increases the long-term earnings by about 8 percent for older males and by about 10 percent for older females.\n\nGovernment policy may make a difference in employability and motivation for retraining and re-entry into the workforce for older workers. In economies with greater regulations surrounding the hiring, termination and wages, reductions in unemployment were difficult to achieve. The very groups harmed with continued higher unemployment were those that the regulations sought to protect.\n\nRetraining is sometimes offered as part of workfare programs, which may include support for transportation, childcare, or an internship.\n\nAs difficult and controversial as it may seem, retraining older and younger workers alike to prepare them to be part of a changing workforce will have a lasting impact on workers across the globe. Unemployed workers are at significantly greater risk for poor physical health, greater stress, alcoholism, marital problems and even suicide. Among young workers, beginning their careers with extended bouts of joblessness results in lower overall earnings and more unemployment throughout their careers.\n\n"}
{"id": "8860167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8860167", "title": "Silent ball", "text": "Silent ball\n\nSilent ball is the Psi Chi national game in which a ball (representing the psyche) is thrown from player to player (representing cheires) while everyone remains silent. The game was created to stimulate interpersonal relationships, stemming from experiments by Philip G. Zimbardo.\n\nSilentball was originally created by an educator in Central Illinois, J. Broach, within a fourth grade classroom. Different variations have morphed from the original format. Silent sit ball (which is a version of the original game) was created by Penny Moore when she was in 12th grade. The game requires only 5 separate balls; participants must stand on the ground or on a chair. Senior members of the organization are asked to stand on chairs due to their superior position within the organization. Once play begins all players must remain dancing or else they are \"out\" and must sit down. Play continues until only a single player remains, who is then declared the winner. The winner has the honor of wearing the judge (provided to each chapter upon their national induction). \n\nThere are many ways to play silent ball, but in some games players are \"out\" and must sit down if they:\n\nThere may be variations and additions to these rules. For example, if players who are sitting down, because they are \"out\", are able to catch a throw, then they may re-enter the play. If the ball is tossed inaccurately or in an aggressive manner, then the person who threw the ball is \"out\" (and, in some adaptations, the thrower is \"out\" if the receiver merely fails to catch the ball). This is usually mitigated by only allowing wiping the ball. It is often played with music in the background. Other adaptations include disallowing players from returning the ball to the players from whom they have immediately received it (except in cases where only two players remain in the game) and imposing time limits on how long players may hold the ball before being required to pass it.\nThis game is frequently used by substitute teachers. and regular teachers to give themselves and the class some quiet, relaxing, time away from work.\n"}
{"id": "371222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371222", "title": "Sister college", "text": "Sister college\n\nHarvard University and Yale University in the USA, and the University of Oxford, University of Cambridge and the University of Dublin in Britain and Ireland, have a tradition of pairing their respective residential colleges or Houses with one another. Colleges that are paired are referred to as sister colleges, and have a ceremonial and symbolic relationship to one another. Students at one college can often find accommodation at their sister college should they be visiting the other University; this is especially relevant to Harvard and Yale students during the annual Game.\n\nSecondary schools in Ireland which are run by the same religious order are often referred to as \"sister colleges\" and enjoy a privileged relationship with one another. For example, the Jesuit Belvedere College and Clongowes Wood College are sister colleges.\n\n"}
{"id": "39520591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39520591", "title": "St. Theresa's Medical University of Yerevan", "text": "St. Theresa's Medical University of Yerevan\n\nSt. Theresa's Medical University of Yerevan (also known as St. Theresa Charitable Sisters Medical Institute) is a private medical school in Yerevan, Armenia, established in 1992. It is ranked #1 among private medical schools in Armenia.\n\nThe University collaborates with medical universities in the USA, Netherlands, Italy, Thailand, and Canada through the World Health Organization. It is the only institute in Armenia that participates in the international market of physician placement.\n\nGraduates of St. Theresa's possess certified specialist qualifications. \n"}
{"id": "29475070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29475070", "title": "The College Club of Boston", "text": "The College Club of Boston\n\nThe College Club of Boston is a private membership organization founded in 1890 as the first women's college club in the United States. Located in the historic Back Bay of Boston, Massachusetts at 44 Commonwealth Avenue, the College Club was established by nineteen college educated women whose mission was to form a social club where they and other like-minded women could meet and share companionship. The College Club of Boston the oldest residential college club in the United States.\n\nIn December 1890, 76 Marlborough Street, also located in Boston's Back Bay, became the first home of The College Club. The building at 76 Marlborough was purchased by Club member Mabel Cummings in 1893.\n\nIn April 1905, the College Club acquired the clubhouse at 40 Commonwealth Avenue, which contained an Old English drawing room, a fine big cafe with a male chef, and seven bedrooms, each of which \"were furnished and decorated in the colors of various women's colleges: crimson rambler wallpaper for Radcliffe, blue silk curtains for Wellesley, white (with brass beds) for Smith, dawn pink and gray for Vassar.\" At that time, the College Club served 600 members, which grew to 1,243 members by 1915.\n\nIn 1924 the Club purchased 44 Commonwealth Avenue, which was the family home of Royal E. Robbins, a major stockholder in the Waltham Watch Company, and once the home of American stage actress Maude Adams. The brownstone townhouse was built in 1864 and was designed in the High Victorian style.\n\nFrom its earliest days, The College Club was host to literary luminaries such as Mark Twain, Vladimir Nabokov, poet Oliver Wendell Holmes, and novelist F. Marion Crawford. Other well-known visitors to the Club have included actress Sarah Bernhardt, social activist Julia Ward Howe, abolitionist and suffragist Lucy Stone, health care advocate Judy Norsigian and Senator Edward M. Kennedy.\n\nClub members took up the cause of educational philanthropy in 1985 and established The College Club Scholarship Fund, Inc. as an IRS 501(c)(3) designated charitable organization. The endowed fund is administered by Club members. Each year since 1986, the Scholarship Fund has awarded college tuition assistance to deserving high school seniors from Boston Public Schools.\n\nOn May 20, 2002, the City of Boston certified the club's status as the oldest (i.e., first) women's college club in the United States.\n\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "40733000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40733000", "title": "The Leadership Challenge", "text": "The Leadership Challenge\n\nThe Leadership Challenge is a book written by James Kouzes and Barry Z. Posner, published by Wiley. First published in 1987, the book's fifth edition was released in 2012, in light of its 25th anniversary.\n\nJim Kouzes and Barry Posner started developing the idea for \"The Leadership Challenge\" when they were planning to present about leadership at a two-day conference. Academics at Santa Clara University, Kouzes and Posner were set to speak after Tom Peters, who was presenting about successful companies. Kouzes and Posner decided to focus on individual leadership skills. The name for the book came from the concept of the challenges that take place to \"make extraordinary things happen\", according to Kouzes in 2012.\n\n\"The Leadership Challenge\" uses case studies to examine \"The Five Practices of Exemplary Leadership\", as researched and developed by Kouzes and Posner. Their first surveys for the five practices started in 1983, by asking people \"What do you do as a leader when you're performing at your personal best?\" Over 30 years, they have done thousands of interviews and collected approximately 75,000 written responses. Kouzes and Posner identified five common concepts in their survey, hence the five practices, which are: \"Model the Way\", \"Inspire a Shared Vision\", \"Challenge the Process\", \"Enable Others to Act\" and \"Encourage the Heart\". Kouzes cites that the last practice, \"Encourage the Heart\", is the most uncommonly seen in leadership roles. The concept focuses on being sincere, including sincere celebrations devoted to recognizing employee successes. \"Model the Way\" encourages leaders to behave the same way they encourage others to behave, with their own voice and values. \"Inspire a Shared Vision\" focuses on developing a vision and series of goals that everyone at the organization cares about and works towards collectively, with clear understanding. \"Challenge the Process\" encourages moving \"outside the boundaries\" to be innovative to make change. \"Enable Others to Act\" is trust-based, encouraging leaders to create a safe and trusting environment for people to collaborate, experiment, and engage.\n\nKouzes and Posner believe that leadership is learned, not something one is born with. They look at traits seen within introvert and extrovert personalities, and examine how they can be developed into leaders by using those skills. For example, extroverts lean towards sharing of their thoughts and ideas with energy to larger groups, when introverts tend to be more quiet and one-on-one in their engagement about ideas to others. A survey featured in the book shows that honesty is the most respected personality trait that a leader can have. Three additional traits that leaders around the world share are forward-thinking, inspiration, and competency.\n\nThe book also looks at work styles and how people function in organizational settings, and how to improve skills like visionising based on their personality traits. Kouzes and Posner express an importance in having a \"shared vision\" for everyone on one's team or at one's company. If a shared vision can be developed and exhibited, staff will be more prone to feeling confident and motivated in their job. Symbolic language like metaphors and storytelling are also important components to leadership skills. Kouzes and Posner believe that symbolic language helps in persuasion and gathering buy-in. Using emotive words and images also helps in inspiring those leaders are leading or hoping to lead. Positive thinking and expression is another key concept in leadership within the book. Positivity can rub off on others around the leader, leading to productivity and satisfaction. Balancing positivity with negativity is important, with positivity a tool that leaders can use to get buy-in from staff for projects and programs. Charisma, honesty, and being emotional are also seen as good signs of leadership.\n\nDeveloped out of the key traits found within \"The Five Practices of Exemplary Leadership\" is the Leadership Practices Inventory, or LPI, a print and online assessment, which the authors called a \"360 assessment tool\", which leaders can use to allow staff to be surveyed about specific leaders in their organization. It also provides self-assessment tools for leaders to learn more about behavioral tendencies affect their leadership. The tool has been used by Cracker Barrel, the United States Treasury Department, and the American Red Cross.\n\nThe book was first published in 1987. Since then, it has sold over two million copies. It has been translated into 20 languages. In 2012, the fifth edition of \"The Leadership Challenge\" was released, marking the 25th anniversary of its publication. When asked about the release of the 5th edition, in light of other leadership development programs that have come into existence, Posner stated that maintaining one's leadership skills was similar to how one might maintain their health throughout their lives. The 5th edition features updated stories and examples for contemporary context. Posner described the 5th edition as being \"more prescriptive than descriptive\" in its style. The book is a core teaching tool in leadership classes at St. Catherine University.\n\nKouzes and Posner have published excerpts and written guest columns featuring \"The Leadership Challenge\" for \"Fast Company\".\n\n\"The Washington Post\" describes \"The Leadership Challenge\" as a \"business-meets-self help canon.\" Carmine Gallo and Tom Gerace have cited \"The Leadership Challenge\" as an important book in developing their leadership skills. Verne Harnish described the book as \"one of the five most important leadership books ever written.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10128154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10128154", "title": "Welsh medium education", "text": "Welsh medium education\n\nEducation delivered through the medium of the Welsh language is known as Welsh-medium education ().\nWelsh-medium education should be distinguished from the teaching of the Welsh language itself as an academic subject. Welsh as a subject is taught as a first language in Welsh-medium schools. In the majority of English-medium schools, Welsh is taught as a second language and became compulsory for all pupils in Wales at Key Stages 1, 2 and 3 (up to age 14) in 1990. In 1999, it became a compulsory subject for Key Stage 4 pupils (GCSE (ages 15 and 16)). Provision of Welsh as a subject in independent (private) schools is less widespread — only a few provide it, and it is taught as a second language. There is no private designated Welsh-medium school in Wales, although one does exist in London, known as the London Welsh School.\n\nSixteen per cent of pupils in Wales attend Welsh-medium schools, with a further 10 per cent attending schools that are bilingual, dual-medium, or in English with significant Welsh provision. Children wishing to join a Welsh-medium school do not have to speak Welsh to attend if they are young enough to learn the language quickly. Ysgol Glan Clwyd is an example: although 70 per cent of the pupils attending this school come from homes where English is the main or only language, 95 per cent of pupils finish their education speaking Welsh as proficiently as a native speaker. Ysgol Glan Clwyd was the first Welsh-medium secondary (comprehensive) school, and opened in Rhyl in 1956.\n\n\"Mudiad Ysgolion Meithrin\" (Nursery Schools Movement) has established play groups and nurseries throughout Wales which allow children to learn Welsh through immersion. It is the main Welsh-medium education and care provider in Wales for the early years. There were 11,828 children in cylchoedd meithrin (Mudiad Meithrin playgroups) in 2014-2015, with 22,000 children attending Mudiad Meithrin establishments every week.\n\nThe spread of such nurseries has ensured strong demand from parents for Welsh-medium primary schools. The success of \"Mudiad Ysgolion Meithrin\" inspired the \"Ikastolak\" movement in the Basque Country and the \"Diwan\" movement in Brittany.\n\nIn the primary school sector, the numbers of children in Welsh-medium schools (or in the Welsh-medium stream of dual stream schools) has grown steadily in recent years. Welsh Government statistics show that in 2014, 22.2 per cent of 7 year old learners were assessed through the medium of Welsh first language \n\n\"Information taken from Schools in Wales\" (accessed 23 July 2010)\n\"Update for last three years taken from School Census Results, 2012\" (accessed 17 May 2013)\n\nThe percentage of children in Welsh-medium secondary schools is slightly less than in primary schools, but has also grown, although it appears to have stabilised in the 2010s. Including Middle School pupils from 2012/2013.\n\n\"Information taken from Schools in Wales\" (accessed 23 July 2010)\n\"Update for last three years taken from School Census Results, 2012\" (accessed 17 May 2013)\n\nDuring 2015/2016, 7.8 per cent of learning activities in the Further Education sector included some element of Welsh, with 0.29 per cent of activities offered through Welsh only. The subjects with the highest number of learning activities with some element of Welsh were Retail and Commercial Enterprise (18.1 per cent); Agriculture, Horticulture and Animal Care (17.7 per cent) and Business, Administration and Law (14.2 per cent).\n\nIn 2014/15, the number of higher education students with at least some teaching through the medium of Welsh reached an all-time high with 6,355 students, or 5.1 per cent of all students at Welsh universities. Of these 6,355 students, 53 per cent were taught entirely through the medium of Welsh and 47 per cent were taught part of their course in Welsh.\n\nThe University of Wales, Trinity Saint David had both the highest number of students (2,185) and the highest proportion of its students (21 per cent) receiving at least some teaching through the medium of Welsh. Glyndŵr University had both the lowest number (45) and proportion of its students (0.7 per cent) receiving at least some teaching through the medium of Welsh.\n\n10,030 university students in Wales were fluent Welsh speakers in 2015/2016, with a further 10,330 speakers recording themselves as Welsh speakers but not fluent. Of all Universities in Wales, Cardiff University had the highest number of fluent Welsh-speaking students, amounting to 1,755 students. According to the latest data collected in 2015/2016, Bangor University had the highest percentage of fluent Welsh-speaking students of all Higher Education institutions in Wales: This constituted to 41.7 per cent of all students in the University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28957718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28957718", "title": "William James Wanless", "text": "William James Wanless\n\nSir William James Wanless, M.D., F.A.C.S. (May 1, 1865 – March 3, 1933) was a Canadian born surgeon, humanitarian and Presbyterian missionary who founded a medical mission in Miraj, India in 1894 and led it for nearly 40 years. As part of this mission, Dr. Wanless founded India's first missionary medical school in 1897, and helped to establish a leprosy sanatorium as well as a tuberculosis hospital, now known as the Wanless Chest Hospital.\n\nHis medical mission turned the once-small village of Miraj into a major medical center in India. By the time he retired in 1928, the clinic he started had become a 250-bed hospital with several important adjuncts. He is considered by many to be India's most famous surgeon of the 19th century, and was known throughout Asia, personally treating princes, rajahs and Mahatma Gandhi. In 1928, he was knighted by King George V, who appointed him Knight Bachelor of the British Empire, for treating 1,000,000 patients and restoring sight to 12,000 of them. The Wanless Hospital in Miraj bears his name, and is now a modern 550-bed teaching hospital.\n\nWilliam James Wanless was born on May 1, 1865 to Elizabeth and John Wanless in the then-community of Charleston, Province of Canada (now \"Caledon Village\", part of Caledon, Ontario, Canada.) He was the sixth of 14 children, including two elder brothers who died in childhood. His father, born in Barrow, Alwinton, Northumberland, England (or possibly Jedboro, Scotland) on December 30, 1832, emigrated to the United States with his family at the age of 17, later emigrating to Canada where he variously became a railroader, a hardware store owner (John Wanless & Sons), and a home heating furnace manufacturer in Toronto (where Wanless Park and several streets are named after one of their distant relations, also a John Wanless, a municipal alderman and educator). During his childhood and adolescence, William was educated in the schools of Charleston, Mount Forrest and Guelph, Ontario.\n\nHe graduated from the New York University School of Medicine in 1889. He married Mary Elizabeth Marshall on September 5, 1889 in Canada, and sailed for India the same year. Mary gave birth to Ethel at Miraj on Dec 2, 1891. Mary died on August 12, 1906. On December 5, 1907, Dr William married again at Kodoli to Lillian Emery Havens, who survived him. Lillian gave birth to 3 children: Harold L. Wanless on October 2, 1908, at Miraj; Robert Emery Wanless who became a Pan Am Boeing pilot and Margaret Elizabeth Wanless on August 24, 1917 in Toronto. Lillian later wrote his biography.\n\nWanless was a delegate to the 1910 World Missionary Conference held in Edinburgh, Scotland, and was president of the Missionary Medical Association of India from 1911 to 1928. In 1918 he was made a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons. He was erroneously reported as dead in 1922; the incorrect report and its subsequent retraction made headlines in the United States.\n\nThe Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church, of Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, sent Dr. Wanless to India in 1889. In 1891, he selected the rustic town of Miraj in Maharashtra State for the mission hospital. The Mission was started as a one-room dispensary in a very small rented place at a busy bazaar, and he was assisted by his wife, Mary, a trained nurse. The Rajah of Miraj, Rajah Sir Gangadharrao Ganesh (Bala Saheb) Patwardhan, provided him with land for a hospital which was formally opened in 1894, in a part of the city now known as \"Wanlesswadi\".\n\nWith the establishment of a hospital, the need for higher quality medical care was increasingly felt, and towards that end a School of Nursing was founded in 1897 under the superintendence of Miss Elizabeth Foster. It has since steadily developed into one of the best nursing schools in Maharashtra.\n\nThe Mary Wanless Hospital was founded in memory of Wanless's first wife Mary after her death in 1906. Now called the Mary Wanless Hospital / Miraj Medical Centre, it still attracts hundreds of poor and needy patients from across India and abroad. He established the Miraj Christian Medical School in 1907, which later graduated its first group of 17 students, with its only qualified teacher being Wanless himself. In 1917 the medical school was recognized for a Diploma of Licentiate by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Mumbai (LCPS), similar to the LRCP of the Royal College of Surgeons (MRCS) of England.\n\nWanless established a Tuberculosis Sanatorium in 1920. At the time of his retirement in 1928, money was raised by citizens and his friends to erect a new building called the Wanless Tuberculosis Sanatorium, now known as Wanless Chest Hospital. It is one of the premier institutions in the country.\n\nThe Vail Memorial Cancer Institute, named after Dr. Charles E. Vail who joined Wanless three years later, and the Goheen Psychiatric Clinic were started in 1937 and 1955 respectively. The Goheen Clinic was named after Dr. Robert H. H. Goheen, father of Robert Francis Goheen, These facilities have effectively served the purposes for which they were established, that is in providing quality health care to all irrespective of caste, creed, religion or financial means.\n\nAdditionally, Wanless established five outpost stations attached to the hospital, and paid the hospital's staff of 125, living only on his missionary's salary sent by the Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church, while donating his personal staff salary to the mission.\n\nIn 1928, after almost forty years of medical missionary service in India, Wanless retired to live in the United States. He wrote a book, \"Medicine in India\", on his life as a doctor in India. He died at his home, 1016 Matillja Street, Glendale, California on March 3, 1933, and was buried at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in the same city. His wife Lillian died in 1973 at the age of 99 years at their home in Glendale, California. Wanless's son Harold later carried on his father's tradition by studying medicine at the University of Toronto.\n\nSince its inception over 115 years ago his medical mission has grown into an institution consisting of a 550-bed teaching hospital affiliated with India's Government Medical College, a College of Nursing, an Institute of Pharmacy and various paramedical programmes.\n\nThe Wanless Hospital and Wanless Chest Hospital are now located in the township of\" 'Wanlesswadi',\" that is 'Wanless town', made notable for its medical institutions. The name was given it by its citizens in that part of India and is recognized by the federal government of India. Wanlesswadi has its own Postal Index Number, 416414, and the Indian Railways also has a station named 'Wanlesswadi' on its Miraj–Sangli Route, which opened on April 1, 1907 for the use by ill or needy patients from across India and from abroad.\n\nAs a secondary and tertiary care centre, Wanless Hospital serves a large part of western Maharashtra and North Karnataka. The Wanless Hospital reputedly provides the best possible medical care to all its patients; an institution for comprehensive and dedicated health care.\n\nDr. Wanless received official honors from Great Britain on three occasions:\n\nThe Sultan Mahommed Shah, Aga Khan III presented him a silver casket with a farewell address on his retirement.\n\nA partial list of his writings and works includes:\n\n\nThe Presbyterian Historical Society in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has Sir W. J. Wanless' Papers, including Dr. Wanless' correspondence, notes and diaries, scrapbooks, and photographs of the mission hospital work.\n\n\n\n"}
