{"id": "37925318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37925318", "title": "2012–13 Cypriot financial crisis", "text": "2012–13 Cypriot financial crisis\n\nThe 2012–2013 Cypriot financial crisis was an economic crisis in the Republic of Cyprus that involved the exposure of Cypriot banks to overleveraged local property companies, the Greek government-debt crisis, the downgrading of the Cypriot government's bond credit rating to junk status by international credit rating agencies, the consequential inability to refund its state expenses from the international markets and the reluctance of the government to restructure the troubled Cypriot financial sector.\n\nOn 25 March 2013, a €10 billion international bailout by the Eurogroup, European Commission (EC), European Central Bank (ECB) and International Monetary Fund (IMF) was announced, in return for Cyprus agreeing to close the country's second-largest bank, the Cyprus Popular Bank (also known as Laiki Bank), imposing a one-time bank deposit levy on all uninsured deposits there, and possibly around 48% of uninsured deposits in the Bank of Cyprus (the island's largest commercial bank). A minority proportion of it held by citizens of other countries (many of whom from Russia), who preferred Cypriot banks because of their higher interest on bank account deposits, relatively low corporate tax, and easier access to the rest of the European banking sector. This resulted in numerous insinuations by US and European media, which presented Cyprus as a 'tax haven' and suggested that the prospective bailout loans were meant for saving the accounts of Russian depositors. No insured deposit of €100,000 or less would be affected.\n\nNearly one third of Rossiya Bank's cash ($1 billion) was frozen in Cypriot accounts during this crisis.\n\nThe United States' subprime mortgage crisis in 2007–2008 led to a domino effect of negative consequences in the global economy including the European Union. The Cypriot economy went into recession in 2009, as the economy shrank by 1.67%, with large falls specifically in the tourism and shipping sectors which caused rising unemployment. Economic growth between 2010 and 2012 was weak and failed to reach its pre-2009 levels. Commercial property values declined by approximately 30%. Non-performing loans rose to a reported 6.1% in 2011, increasing pressure on the banking system. With a small population and modest economy, Cyprus had a large offshore banking industry. Compared to a nominal GDP of €19.5bn ($24bn) the banks had amassed €22 billion of Greek private-sector debt with bank deposits $120bn, including $60bn from Russia business corporations. Russian oligarch Dmitry Rybolovlev owned a 10% shareholding of Bank of Cyprus.\n\nCyprus banks first came under severe financial pressure as bad debt ratios rose. Former Laiki CEO Efthimios Bouloutas admitted that his bank was probably insolvent as early as 2008, even before Cyprus entered the Eurozone. The banks were then exposed to a haircut of upwards of 50% in 2011 during the Greek government-debt crisis, leading to fears of a collapse of the Cypriot banks. The Cypriot state, unable to raise liquidity from the markets to support its financial sector, requested a bailout from the European Union.\n\nProgress on fiscal and structural reforms was slow and following a serious, accidental explosion in July 2011 at the Evangelos Florakis Naval Base the major credit rating agencies downgraded the country's rating in September. Yields on its long-term bonds rose above 12% and there was concern that the country would be unable to stabilize its banks.\n\nSince January 2012, Cyprus had been relying on a €2.5bn (US$3.236 billion) emergency loan from Russia to cover its budget deficit and re-finance maturing debt. The loan has an interest rate of 4.5%, with no amortization/repayment until its maturity ends after 4.5 years, and no penalty if repayment at that point of time will be delayed, in the event of a persisting lack of access for Cyprus to cover its financial needs through the normal funding markets. The received loan was expected to cover all refinancing of maturing government debt and the amount needed for the governments continued budget deficits, until the first quarter of 2013. But the received loan did not include any funds for recapitalization of the Cypriot financial sector. Looking further ahead, it was generally expected Cyprus would need to apply for an additional bailout loan.\n\nSpecifically the article says \n\n\nCyprus has seen a number of reactions and responses towards the austerity measures of the bailout plan. On 8 November 2012, the Cypriot far-left party Committee for a Radical Left Rally (ERAS) organized the first protest against austerity while the Troika negotiations were still taking place. Protesters were gathered outside the House of Representatives holding banners and shouting slogans against austerity. Leaflets with alternative proposals for the economy were distributed in the protest, with proposals including the nationalization of banking, the reduction of the army and the freezing of the army budget, and the increase of the corporate tax. Members of the New Internationalist Left (NEDA) also participated in the protest.\n\nOn 14 November the New Internationalist Left organised an anti-austerity protest outside the Ministry of Finance in Nicosia together with the Alliance Against the Memorandum. In the protest NEDA gave out leaflets, which expressed the view that \"the EU is trying to burden the workers with the debts from the collapse of the bankers\" and that \"if this happens, the Cypriot economy and the future of the new generations will then be mortgaged to local and foreign profiteers and usurious bankers\".\n\nContract teachers protested outside the House of Representatives on 29 November against austerity measures that would leave 992 of them without a job next year. The teachers stormed the building and bypassed the policemen, entering the parliament. The teachers shouted against the banks and poverty. A protest by investors was staged on the morning of 11 December outside the House of Representatives, with protesters again storming parliament and bypassing the police. The storming of the parliament led to the interruption of the discussions of the parliamentary committee of customs. The protesters were asked to leave so that the committee could continue its work, and the protesters left half an hour later.\n\nA number of protests took place on 12 December. Members of large families protested outside the House of Representatives against cuts in the benefits given by the state to support large families. Protesters threw eggs and stones at the main entrance of the parliament, and a number of protesters tried to enter the building, but were blocked by the police force that arrived to handle the protest. It was reported that a woman fainted during the incidents. The protesters shouted for the MPs to come out but no response was given.\n\nThe protesters were joined by members of KISOA (Cypriot Confederation of Organisations of the Disabled, \"Κυπριακή Συνομοσπονδία Οργανώσεων Αναπήρων\"), who marched from the Ministry of Finance to the House of Representatives to protest against cuts in benefits for people with disabilities. Later in the day members of public school teachers' trade unions protested outside the Ministry of Finance against the cuts in education spending which could result in the firing of teachers. The unions staged another protest the next day near the House of Representatives.\n\n\"Haravgi\", a far left-wing newspaper reported that just before bank deposits were blocked a number of companies belonging to family of president Nikos Anastasiadis have transferred over $21m outside of Cyprus. Anastasiadis has denied these allegations. Also a number of loans issued to members of political parties or public administration officers were fully or partially written off.\n\nNon-resident investors who held deposits prior to 15 March 2013 when the plan to impose losses on savers was first formulated, and who lost at least three million euros would be eligible to apply for Cypriot citizenship. Cyprus's existing \"citizenship by investment\" program would be revised to reduce the amount of investment required to be eligible for the program to three million euros from the previous ten million euros. \"These decisions will be deployed in a fast-track manner\", Anastasiades said in an address to Russian business people in the port city of Limassol in 2013. Other measures were also under consideration, he said, including offering tax incentives for existing or new companies doing business in Cyprus.\n\nFrozen deposits in Cyprus banks attracted interest from specialized distressed assets investors and brokers. Among firms reported to be dealing in Cyprus bank debt was London-based Exito Partners (formerly Éxito Capital) and Swiss-based Black Eagle Litigation Fund.\n\nA team of 16 Cypriot economists, organized by the citizens group \"Eleutheria\" (\"Freedom\"), attributed the crisis to sliding competitiveness, increasing public and private debt, exacerbated by the banking crisis.\n"}
{"id": "51800593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51800593", "title": "515 Alive", "text": "515 Alive\n\n515 Alive Music Festival is a multi-day music and camping festival in Des Moines, Iowa. The festival features mostly EDM with a small selection of hip-hop music. In 2017, the event attracted over 25,000 people. It has expanded almost every year since its creation. It is the largest such event in the state of Iowa.\n\n"}
{"id": "16087033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16087033", "title": "Alcazar Theatre (1885)", "text": "Alcazar Theatre (1885)\n\nThe Alcazar Theatre was a theatre at 116 O'Farrell Street, between Stockton and Powell, in San Francisco, California. Opened in 1885, the structure served as a lecture and music hall, but soon housed a popular resident stock company, which included Maude Adams, under the management of the younger brother of David Belasco, Fred Belasco.\n\nThe Alcazar Theatre was destroyed in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. In 1911, another Alcazar Theatre opened one block to the west.\n\n"}
{"id": "562162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=562162", "title": "Allied Commission", "text": "Allied Commission\n\nFollowing the termination of hostilities in World War II, the Allies were in control of the defeated Axis countries. Anticipating the defeat of Germany and Japan, they had already set up the European Advisory Commission and a proposed Far Eastern Advisory Commission to make recommendations for the post war period. Accordingly, they managed their control of the defeated countries through Allied Commissions, often referred to as Allied Control Commissions (ACC), consisting of representatives of the major Allies.\n\nUnder the provisions of Article 37 in the Armistice with Italy Instrument of Surrender, September 29, 1943, the Control Commission for Italy was established on November 10, 1943 and was dismantled following the conclusion of the Italian Peace Treaty at the Paris Peace Conference in 1947.\n\nThe Armistice Agreement with Rumania, signed on September 12, 1944, established, among others, the following:\n\nIn line with Article 14 of the Armistice Agreement two Romanian People's Tribunals were set up to try suspected war criminals. The Treaty of Peace with Romania was signed on February 10, 1947 and entered into force on September 15, 1947.\n\nThe Commission, placed under the nominal leadership of Soviet general Rodion Malinovsky (represented by Vladislav Petrovich Vinogradov) and was dominated by Red Army leaders.\n\nThe Commission was one of the tools used by the Soviet Union to impose communist rule in Romania. Soviet occupation forces remained in Romania until 1958 and the country became a satellite state of the Soviet Union, joining the Warsaw Pact and COMECON.\n\nThe Allied Control Commission (ACC) arrived in Finland on September 22, 1944 to observe Finnish compliance with the Moscow armistice. It consisted of 200 Soviet and 15 British members and was led by Col. Gen. Andrei Zhdanov. Immediately after its inception, the commission required Finland to take more vigorous action to intern the German forces in Northern Finland. Finland's compliance with the commission resulted in a campaign to force out the remaining German troops in the area. Simultaneously, Finland was required to demobilize, which was also required by the commission.\n\nThe ACC provided Finland with a list of war criminals against whom Finland had to start judicial proceedings. Although this required Finnish post-facto legislation, Finland was the only country on the losing side of the war that was allowed to try its own war criminals. The ACC interfered with the war-responsibility trials by requiring longer prison sentences than the preliminary verdict would have contained. The ACC also strove to change the Finnish political life by requiring a number of allegedly fascist (in practice anti-Soviet) organizations to be banned, among them the Civil Guard. Furthermore, the ACC required the forced return of all Soviet citizens, including Ingrian Finns and Estonians, to the Soviet Union.\n\nAfter the war, the Finnish military placed part of the weapons of the demobilized troops into several hundred caches distributed around the country. The caches would have been used to arm guerillas in case of a Soviet occupation. When the matter was leaked to the public, the commission required Finnish authorities to investigate and prosecute the officers and men responsible for the caching. The Weapons Cache Case was followed closely until the ACC determined that the case was purely a military operation. The Allied Control Commission left Finland September 26, 1947, when the Soviet Union finally ratified the Paris Peace Treaty.\n\nThe Armistice Agreement with Bulgaria October 28, 1944 \n\n\nThe Allied Control Council (ACC) for Germany oversaw the Allied Occupation Zones in Germany. The ACC was established by agreement of June 5, 1945, supplemented by agreement of September 20 of that same year, with its seat in Berlin. Its members were Great Britain, France, the Soviet Union, and the United States of America. Decisions could only be made by consensus. From the outset; proceedings were heavily compromised through systematic non-cooperation from the French representatives. The French had been excluded (at American insistence) from the Potsdam Conference and consequently refused to recognise any obligation for the ACC to be constrained by the Potsdam agreement. In particular, they resisted all proposals to establish common policies and institutions across Germany as a whole, and anything that they feared might lead to the emergence of an eventual unified German government Cooperation within the ACC finally broke down completely when the Soviet representative withdrew on March 20, 1948. After that date, the ACC did not meet again, and the stage was set for the partition of Germany into two states.\n\nAfter the breakdown of the ACC, the British, French and United States of America occupation zones and the British, French and United States of America zones in Berlin were governed by the Allied High Commission with membership from Britain, France, and the United States, whilst the Soviet Zone and Soviet Zone of Berlin were governed by the Chairman of the Soviet Control Commission, later the Soviet High Commissioner. The role of the High Commissioners ceased when the three western zones (other than Berlin) and the Soviet Zone (other than in Berlin) acquired \"de facto\" sovereignty as respectively the Federal Republic of Germany ('West Germany') and the German Democratic Republic ('East Germany') (subject to certain restrictions).\nThe ACC convened again in 1971, leading to agreement on transit arrangements in Berlin. During the talks for unification of Germany in late 1989, it was decided to convene the ACC again as a forum for solving the issue of Allied rights and privileges in Germany. The disbanding of the ACC was officially announced by the Two Plus Four Agreement of September 12, 1990, effective as of March 15, 1991. The ACC last met on 2 October 1990, on the eve of German Reunification.\n\nThe creation of an Allied Commission for Austria was envisaged by Allied leaders at the various sessions of the European Advisory Commission in 1944. The matter became more pressing following the Soviet takeover of Vienna from German control on April 13, 1945. The Soviet authorities in Vienna decided to establish a new Austrian government without prior consultation with the other Allied leaders, and on April 27, the Austrian socialist leader Karl Renner formed a government in Vienna. The British, US and French governments refused at first to recognize the Renner government, and in order to undermine the Soviet move decided to start right away with the proceedings to establish a joint commission for Austria. However, the Soviet government withheld permission for Allied representatives to enter Vienna during late April to early May, arguing that agreement on partition of Vienna into four occupation zones must be done prior to the arrival of any other troops thereto. As a result, it was only on June 4 that a delegation of US, British and French generals was able to arrive at Vienna to survey conditions in the area. However, not much progress was made throughout June, as the Soviet authorities restricted the movement of the western Allies in and around Vienna. Throughout June, negotiations for agreement on division of Austria into occupation zones were held in London within the European Advisory Commission, and the agreement was concluded on July 4, 1945, subject to further approval. The agreement was then approved by the four Allied governments. On July 12, it was approved by the British and French governments. On July 21, the Soviet government gave its approval, and the US government followed suit on July 24.\nOn June 27, 1945, shortly prior to the formation of the Allied Commission for Austria, the US Joint Chiefs of Staff issued an ordinance authorizing General Mark W. Clark as Commander in Chief of US Forces of Occupation in Austria. Regarding the future commission for Austria, the directive stated:\n\nAs such you will serve as United States member of the Allied Council of the Allied Commission for Austria and will also be responsible for the administration of military government in the zone or zones assigned to the United States for purposes of occupation and administration.\n\nThe Allied Commission for Austria was established by the Agreement on control machinery in Austria, signed in the European Advisory Commission in London on July 4, 1945. It entered into force on July 24, 1945 on the day that the United States gave notification of approval, the last of the four powers to do so. It was supplemented by an agreement of June 28, 1946, which enabled the Austrian government to conduct foreign relations.\n\nA separate agreement for the division of the city of Vienna into four occupation zones was concluded on July 9, 1945. This agreement was approved by the British government on July 12, the French government on July 16, the Soviet government on July 21 and the US government on July 24.\n\nAustria was divided into 4 Zones: American, British, French and Soviet. Vienna, being the capital, was similarly divided but at its centre was an International Zone, sovereignty of which alternated at regular intervals between the 4 Powers. The commission had its seat in Vienna.\n\nA problem faced by the commission was the issue of the provisional government under Karl Renner, which was established unilaterally by the Soviet government in early May 1945. The other Allied governments refused at first to recognize it, but on October 1, 1945, the commission made the following recommendation:\n\nThe Council examined the question of the Provisional Austrian Government and are making recommendations to their respective governments.\n\nThe Council decided on the reestablishment of a free press in the whole of Austria subject only to conditions of military security. They also decided that effective December 1 the wearing of military uniforms unless dyed a color other than grey or khaki is forbidden to former personnel of the German Army and to Austrian civilians.\n\nThe commission recommended to recognize Renner's government, in exchange for introduction of freedom of the press and holding free elections.\n\nThe commission for Austria was dismantled following the conclusion of the Austrian State Treaty on May 15, 1955.\n\nIt was agreed at the Moscow Conference of Foreign Ministers, and made public in communique issued at the end of the conference on December 27, 1945 that the Far Eastern Advisory Commission (FEAC) would become the Far Eastern Commission (FEC), it would be based in Washington, and would oversee the Allied Council for Japan. This arrangement was similar to those that the Allies had set up for overseeing the defeated Axis powers in Europe. In a mirror image of those Axis countries, like Hungary, which fell to the Soviet Union and were occupied by the Red Army alone, Japan having fallen to the United States and occupied by the U.S. Army, the United States was given the dominant position on the Tokyo-based Allied Council for Japan. The change in name of the FEAC to FEC was significant because as the U.S. Secretary of State James F. Byrnes reported after the Conference \"As early as August 9 we invited the Soviet Union, Great Britain, and China to join with us in carrying out the objectives of the Potsdam Declaration and the Terms of Surrender for Japan. The Far Eastern Advisory Commission was established in October, but Great Britain had reservations regarding its advisory character, and the Soviet Union requested a decision regarding control machinery in Tokyo before joining the work of the Commission.\". As agreed in the communique the FEC and the Allied Council were dismantled following the Treaty of San Francisco on September 8, 1951.\n\n"}
{"id": "259345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=259345", "title": "Amerasian", "text": "Amerasian\n\nAn Amerasian originally meant a person born in Asia to an Asian mother and a U.S. military father.\n\nSeveral countries have significant populations of Amerasians in Japan, Thailand, South Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and, most notably, the Philippines, the last having had the largest US air and naval bases outside the US mainland.\n\nThe term was coined by writer Pearl S. Buck and was formalized by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Many people were born to Asian women and U.S. servicemen during World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War. The official definition of Amerasian came about as a result of Public Law 97-359, enacted by the 97th Congress of the United States on October 22, 1982.\n\nAccording to the United States Department of Justice and the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), an Amerasian is: \"[A]n alien who was born in Korea, Vietnam, Laos, Kampuchea or Thailand after December 31, 1950 and before October 22, 1982 and was fathered by a U.S. citizen.\" The Amerasian Foundation (AF) and Amerasian Family Finder (AFF) define an Amerasian as \"Any person who was fathered by a citizen of the United States (an American servicemen, American expatriate or U.S. Government Employee (Regular or Contract)) and whose mother is or was, an Asian National Asian.\"\n\nThe term is commonly applied to half Japanese children fathered by a U.S. serviceman in Japan, as well as half Korean children fathered by veterans of the Korean War or stationary soldiers in South Korea. The term is also applied to children of Filipinos and American rulers during the U.S. colonial period of the Philippines (still used until today) and children of Thais and U.S. soldiers during World War II and the Vietnam War. The U.S. had bases in Thailand during the Vietnam War.\n\nAmerasian should not be interpreted as a fixed racial term relating to a specific mixture of races (such as Mestizo, Mulatto, Eurasian or Afro-Asian). The racial strain of the American parent of one Amerasian may be different from that of another Amerasian; it may be White, Black, Hispanic or even Asian. In the latter case, it is conceivable that the Amerasian could be fathered by a person who shares the same racial background but not the same nationality.\n\nIn certain cases, it could apply to the offspring of American females, who engaged in professions such as military nurse, and Asian males. Mixed-race children, whatever the occupations of their parents, have suffered social stigma.\n\nIn April 1975, Operation Babylift was initiated in South Vietnam to relocate Vietnamese children, many orphans and those of mixed American-Vietnamese parentage (mostly Vietnamese mother and American serviceman father), to the United States and finding American families who would take them in. Over three thousand Amerasians were evacuated from South Vietnam; however, more than twenty thousand Amerasians remained.\n\nSince 1898, when the United States annexed the Philippines from Spain, there were as many as 21 U.S. bases and 100,000 U.S. military personnel stationed there. The bases closed in 1992 leaving behind thousands of Amerasian children. There are an estimated 52,000 Amerasians in the Philippines, but an academic research paper presented in the U.S. (in 2012) by an Angeles, Pampanga, Philippines Amerasian college research study unit suggests that the number could be a lot more, possibly reaching 250,000.\n\nUnlike their counterparts in other countries, American-Asians, or Amerasians, in the Philippines remain impoverished and neglected. A study done by the University of the Philippines' Center for Women Studies further found that many Amerasians have experienced some form of abuse and even domestic violence. The findings cited cases of racial, gender and class discrimination that Amerasian children and youth suffer from strangers, peers, classmates and teachers. The study also said black Amerasians seem to suffer more from racial and class discrimination than their white counterparts.\n\nTwo-thirds are raised by single mothers, others by relatives and non-relatives; six percent live on their own or in institution, and 90 percent were born out of wedlock. It was reported in 1993 that prostitutes are increasingly Amerasian, children of prostitutes caught in a cycle that transcends generations.\n\nMarch 4 has been designated as Amerasian Day in the Philippines. The Amerasian Foundation has designated it as International Amerasian Day.\n\nIn 1982, the U.S. passed the Amerasian Immigration Act, giving preferential immigration status to Amerasian children born during the Vietnam Conflict. The act did not apply to Ameriasians born in the Philippines, who can only become United States citizens if their father claims them; most do not.\n\nA class action suit was filed in 1993 on their behalf in the International Court of Complaints in Washington, DC, to establish Filipino American children's rights to assistance. The court denied the claim, ruling that the children were the products of unmarried women who provided sexual services to U.S. service personnel in the Philippines and were therefore engaged in illicit acts of prostitution. Such illegal activity could not be the basis for any legal claim.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23820919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23820919", "title": "Apostacon", "text": "Apostacon\n\nApostacon (portmanteau of \"apostate\" + \"conference\"), before 2013 known as Midwest Humanist Conference, Midwest Humanist and Freethought Conference and Midwest Freethought Conference, is an annual event about atheism, freethought, humanism, secularism and skepticism in the (Midwestern) United States. The conference, which embraces the parody religion of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, is aimed at \"atheists, humanists, agnostics, skeptics, apostates, freethinkers, rationalists and pastafarians.\"\n\nThe 2009 event was held at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln (UNL), hosted by the Lincoln Secular Humanists and coordinated by Humanist and LGBT activist Jason Frye. Speakers lectured on topics ranging from Reproductive Rights, LGBT Rights, and community building. In 2010, the second conference themed “No God, No Problem” was again coordinated by Frye, but this time held in the Country Inn & Suites in Lincoln, Nebraska; there were 80 attendees. From 2011 until 2014, the conference was held in Omaha, Nebraska. During Apostacon 2014, famous science communicator and astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson delivered the keynote address. The 2015 installment was held in Dallas, Texas, the first time outside of Nebraska.\n\nIn October 2015 Apostacon president Sarah Morehead was removed by the executive board for allegedly defrauding the conference. \n\n"}
{"id": "37007779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37007779", "title": "Aral smallpox incident", "text": "Aral smallpox incident\n\nThe Aral smallpox incident was a July 30, 1971 outbreak of the viral disease which occurred as a result of a field test at a Soviet biological weapons (BW) facility on an island in the Aral Sea. The incident sickened ten people, of whom 3 died, and came to widespread public notice only in 2002.\n\nIn 1954, an existing biological weapons test site originally constructed on Vozrozhdeniya Island in the Aral Sea in 1948 was greatly expanded by the Soviet Ministry of Defence, including to the neighboring Komsomolskiy Island, and named Aralsk-7. A field scientific research laboratory to conduct biological experiments was expanded, and the town of Kantubek was constructed to house employees and scientists. Bio-agents tested there included \"Bacillus anthracis\", \"Coxiella burnetii\", \"Francisella tularensis\", \"Brucella suis\", \"Rickettsia prowazekii\", \"Variola major\" (smallpox), \"Yersinia pestis\", botulinum toxin, and Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus. (By 1960, the Soviet biological weapons program also included numerous other research and operational facilities throughout the country.) Aralsk-7 had a history of association with mass deaths of fish, various regional plague outbreaks, a saiga antelope die-off, and individual cases of infectious disease among visitors to Vozrozhdeniya Island.\n\nAfter the Soviet Union ceased to exist, the island became joint territory of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.\n\nAccording to Soviet General Pyotr Burgasov (Peter Burgasov), field testing of 400 grams of smallpox at Aralsk-7 caused an outbreak on 30 July 1971. Burgasov, former Chief Sanitary Physician of the Soviet Army, former Soviet Vice-Minister of Health and a senior researcher within the Soviet BW program, described the incident:\n\nOn Vozrozhdeniya Island in the Aral Sea, the strongest recipes of smallpox were tested. Suddenly I was informed that there were mysterious cases of mortalities in Aralsk (Aral). A research ship [the \"Lev Berg\"] of the Aral fleet came to within 15 km of the island (it was forbidden to come any closer than 40 km). The lab technician of this ship took samples of plankton twice a day from the top deck. The smallpox formulation—400 gr. of which was exploded on the island—\"got her\" and she became infected. After returning home to Aralsk, she infected several people including children. All of them died. I suspected the reason for this and called the Chief of General Staff of Ministry of Defense and requested to forbid the stop of the Alma-Ata-Moscow train in Aralsk. As a result, the epidemic around the country was prevented. I called [future Soviet General Secretary Yuri] Andropov, who at that time was Chief of KGB, and informed him of the exclusive recipe of smallpox obtained on Vozrazhdenie Island.\n\nThere is a contending belief that the disease actually spread to the \"Lev Berg\" from Uyaly or Komsomolsk-on-Ustyurt, two cities in what is now Uzbekistan where the ship docked.\n\nThe incident caused ten individuals to contract smallpox and three unvaccinated individuals (a woman and two children) died from the haemorrhagic form of the disease. One crew member of the \"Lev Berg\" contracted smallpox as the ship passed within 15 km (9 miles) of the island. This crew member became ill on 6 August with fever, headache, and myalgia. The ship then landed in the port city of Aral on 11 August. The ill crew member returned to her home, and she developed a cough and temperature exceeding 38.9°C (102°F). Her physician prescribed antibiotics and aspirin. Although she was previously vaccinated for smallpox, a rash subsequently appeared on her back, face, and scalp; her fever subsided; and she recovered by 15 August. On 27 August this patient's 9-year-old brother developed a rash and fever, his pediatrician prescribed tetracycline and aspirin, and he recovered.\n\nDuring the following 3 weeks, eight additional cases of fever and rash occurred in Aral. Five adults ranging in age from 23 to 60, and three children (4 and 9 months old, and a 5-year-old) were diagnosed with smallpox both clinically and by laboratory testing. These children and the 23-year-old were previously unvaccinated. The two youngest children and the 23-year-old subsequently developed the haemorrhagic form of smallpox and died. The remaining individuals had previously been vaccinated, and all recovered after having an attenuated form of the disease.\n\nThe high ratio of haemorrhagic smallpox cases in this outbreak, combined with the rate of infectivity and the testimony of General Burgasov, has led to the understanding that an enhanced weaponized strain of smallpox virus was released from Aralsk-7 in 1971.\n\nA massive public health response to the smallpox cases in Aral ensued once the disease was recognized. In less than 2 weeks, approximately 50,000 residents of Aral were vaccinated. Household quarantine of potentially exposed individuals was enacted, and hundreds were isolated in a makeshift facility at the edge of the city. All traffic in and out of the city was stopped, and approximately 5.000 sq. meter (54.000 sq. ft.) of living space and 18 metric tons of household goods were decontaminated by health officials.\n\n"}
{"id": "37222653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37222653", "title": "Azerbaijani presidential election, 2013", "text": "Azerbaijani presidential election, 2013\n\nPresidential elections were held in Azerbaijan on 9 October 2013. The result was a victory for incumbent President Ilham Aliyev, who received 84.5% of the vote, whilst leading opposition candidate Jamil Hasanli finished second with 5.5% of the vote.\n\nThe election was marred by claims of irregularities; official results were accidentally released by the government's Central Election Commission through a mobile app before voting began, giving incumbent Aliyev a victory with 72.38% of the vote. The commission later recalled the results, claiming that they were taken from the 2008 elections. This claim has been disputed, given that the results accidentally released included the candidates from the 2013 elections, and that the percentages differed from the 2008 results.\n\nOSCE monitors reported candidate and voter intimidation and a restrictive media environment, including arrests and the use of force against journalists and activists. 92% of the coverage on the six main TV channels were dedicated to the incumbent president.\n\nAll previous elections in Azerbaijan observed by OSCE fell short of meeting international standards.\n\nIn 2009 an amendment was made to the Constitution of Azerbaijan, which abolished the limit of two consecutive presidential terms and allowed incumbent Aliyev, who had already served for two terms, to run for president for unlimited number of times. The constitutional amendment was condemned by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, which stated that \"the abolition of existing limits preventing the unlimited re-election of a President is a step back, in terms of democratic achievements\". The amendment was also criticized by the Azerbaijani opposition. On the basis of the amendment in 2013 Ilham Aliyev ran for president for the third time.\n\nAfter his visit to Azerbaijan the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Jean-Claude Mignon called on the authorities to fully respect their obligations.\n\nHowever, overall, in 2013 elections the Central Election Commission (CEC) demonstrated efficiency in administrative preparations for the elections and observed the legal deadlines.\n\nOn 7 June 2013 the New Azerbaijan Party nominated incumbent President Ilham Aliyev as their official presidential candidate. MP Mubariz Gurbanli announced that according to the Election Code of Azerbaijan Republic, the party had not only filled its signature requirements but could get more than the minimum 40,000 required signatures. He said: \"The signature lists have been ready for already 4-5 days, but they can be submitted to the Central Election Commission starting from 20 August, that is, 50 days before the elections under the legislation. So, our employees will submit the signature lists to CEC tomorrow. Under the law, the CEC will issue a document confirming the candidate’s participation in the elections after it reviews them.\"\n\nIn the meantime, playwright Rustam Ibragimbekov was chosen as the leader of the newly created National Council of Democratic Forces. The NCDF brought together main opposition forces, including Musavat, the Azerbaijani Popular Front Party, Open Society, Forum of Intellectuals. The alliance set as its main goal the \"peaceful transition to democracy.\" Ibragimbekov was denied registration by the Central Election Commission because he \"along with the citizenship of Azerbaijan, also of Russian citizenship and his commitment to the Russian Federation.\"\n\nIn late August, the united opposition picked historian Jamil Hasanli as its candidate. During the rally on September 28, Hasanli called on people to vote for him to \"end the dictatorship of one family in Azerbaijan.\" A day before the election, main opposition candidate Jamil Hasanli stated that he is \"running in this election with the paramount aim of ending 20 years of the Aliyev dynasty's misrule of my country, and restoring Azerbaijani democracy.\"\n\nAn official smartphone app run by the Central Election Commission inadvertently released final election results a day before polls had opened. The results showed Ilham Aliyev having won with 72.76% of the recorded votes, while the nearest opposing candidate, Jamil Hasanli, tallied just 7.4%. The data was recalled, with an official claim that the app's developer had mistakenly tested the app with the 2008 election results, but the data released did not match the voter totals nor percentages of the previous election.\n\nOn 10 October Hasanli called for the results to be annulled due to vote-rigging, claiming the elections were not free and fair because of electoral fraud and government control of all television channels.\n\n\n\nAzerbaijani officials have bashed those who criticizes their elections. The Chief of Presidential Administration of Azerbaijan Ramiz Mehdiyev, accused the US officials in recommending them to rig the elections to show that the incumbent President Ilham Aliyev was winning with 75% of the votes and to give 25% to the opposition candidate, to make it look believable. Mehdiyev also attempted to deflect the international condemnation by claiming the U.S. elections are illegitimate. The United States denied these accusations, terming them “completely false”.\n\nThe controversial assessments by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe/European Parliament and OSCE/ODIHR sparked a major scandal, as for the first time the reports of these authoritative European organizations openly contradicted one other. Further, many European experts and parliamentarians, among them also deputies of the European Parliament, harshly criticized the reports of the European Parliament and PACE as being biased. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament has distanced itself from the words of the observer mission EP / PACE, stating that the differences between the findings of the delegation of parliamentarians and the OSCE are so far away that it cannot be supported at all. The Greens/EFA Group of the European Parliament said that they do not endorse the statements made by the EP delegation. The Green foreign affairs spokesperson Werner Schulz said, \nThe shortcomings of EP's own election observation mission to Azerbaijan call into question the existence of such short-term missions in general...\nThe European Parliament loses credibility with statements ignoring the reality of the situation in the country. A handful of MEPs are endangering the European Parliament's reputation in fighting for human rights, democracy and rule of law.\nEuropean Stability Initiative (ESI) think tank has published a detailed report on observation missions participating in Azerbaijani elections 2013 titled \"Disgraced: Azerbaijan and the end of election monitoring as we know it\". The report, which was the third one of its kind on Azerbaijan issued by ESI, highlighted the drawbacks of international short-term observer missions, bringing up facts on that many election observers were either bribed by the Azerbaijani government or had some other vested interest in praising the fraudulent elections. Other attempts to investigate the sources of funding of the organizations that observed the elections in Azerbaijan, have proved to be futile, which further reinforced the suspicion that their \"experts\" were funded by Azerbaijan.\n\nOn 12 October around 4,000 people protested against the election results. About ten protesters were arrested, while others were beaten.\n\n"}
{"id": "42979383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42979383", "title": "Big Three (Miami Heat)", "text": "Big Three (Miami Heat)\n\nThe Big Three were a trio of professional basketball players - LeBron James, Dwyane Wade, and Chris Bosh - who played for the Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association (NBA) from 2010 to 2014. All three players were selected within the first five picks of the 2003 NBA draft, and became scoring leaders for their respective franchises over their first seven seasons.\n\nAfter re-signing Wade following the 2009–10 season, the Heat secured the signings of both Bosh and James in free agency, with the latter being announced in the television special, \"The Decision\". The trio led the Heat to the NBA Finals in each of their four seasons together, and won back-to-back championships in 2012 and 2013. After losing the Finals the following season, James opted out of a contract extension, and returned to play for the Cleveland Cavaliers. Both Wade and Bosh continued to play for the Heat for two additional seasons after James' departure, before Wade departed Miami and signed with the Chicago Bulls, while Bosh left the game due to medical reasons. On September 27th, 2017, Wade signed a one-year contract with the Cavaliers, reuniting him with James. On February 8, 2018, at the NBA trade deadline, the Cavaliers traded back Wade to the Miami Heat in exchange for a protected 2024 second-round draft pick. Beginning in the 2019-2020 NBA season, LeBron will be the last remaining active member from the Heat Big 3, as on September 16, 2018, Wade announced he’ll retire from the NBA after the 2018-19 season.\n\nThe trio have been credited for helping to revolutionize the NBA, with many more teams seeking to adopt the \"Big Three\" model of courting established NBA superstars to their franchises, in order to win championships.\n"}
{"id": "50779409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50779409", "title": "Blood in the Snow Canadian Film Festival", "text": "Blood in the Snow Canadian Film Festival\n\nBlood in the Snow Canadian Film Festival (BITS) was first founded by Kelly Micheal Stewart in 2012 as an offshoot of his then ongoing monthly film series entitled \"Fright Nights at the Projection Booth\" which were held at the former Projection Booth theater in Toronto, Ontario. With a considerable amount of Canadian films all vying for a spot in the showcase, Stewart decided to put together the first edition of what would become a yearly film festival that replaced the monthly series. After a first edition entitled \"Fright Nights :Blood in the Snow Canadian Film Festival weekend\", Stewart shortened the name and re-imagined the construct of the festival, bringing on a programming team and sharpening its focus with the aim of promoting, spotlighting and helping to develop the independent contemporary genre filmmaking community across Canada. The festival has branched off in its efforts to become visible all year round with a public access television interview show and a podcast.\n\nThe first year of the festival began as spinoff of the monthly film night hosted and programmed by Kelly Michael Stewart called Fright Nights at the Projection Booth. The program that year included 6 feature films and 13 shorts, including the first iteration of the festival's popular \"Short Film Showcase\" in the form of a \"best of 2012 shorts\" programming block and a midnight film on the Saturday night of the festival. Running from November 30 to December 2, 2012, titles that year included the World Premieres of and In The House of Flies, along with screenings of Beyond The Black Rainbow, Devil's Night, Famine and the Canadian Premiere of Blood for Irina.\n\n2013 marked the first year the festival utilized a traditional festival submission layout with the introduction of a full programming team. The 2nd edition of the festival introduced other changes including a move to the Carlton Cinemas, running November 29 to December 1, 2013. The festival fine-tuned its prime-time shorts program and promptly sold out the screening, held a preview screening event to introduce their new surroundings on October 10 featuring the World Premiere of The Basement, started an interactive media day for press and filmmakers and created a vendor village of genre-themed merchants in the lobby. The lineup included 7 feature films and 16 shorts Films that year included Evangeline, Thanatomorphose, Ghostkeepers, Blood Riders: The Devil Rides with us, Clean Break, Criminal and Discopath.\n\n2014 saw the return of many of the initiatives from 2013 but added upon them. The lineup expanded to 8 features along with 15 shorts, and included the first educational Industry Panel from the festival, furthering its commitment to the genre community. In a first for the festival, multiple second screenings (running concurrently to the original schedule on a 2nd screen) had to be added due to ticket demand.Continuing at the Carlton in its third year on November 28 to 30, 2014, the festival screened the world premieres of Teddy Bomb and Heinous Acts along with Canadian and Toronto premieres of Berkshire County, Queen of Blood (starring Skinny Puppy's Nivek Ogre), Ejecta, Bloody Knuckles, Black Mountain Side and Kingdom Come.\n\n2015 would prove to be the last year at the Carlton Cinema as the festival continued to grow and simply needed a bigger venue going forward. The 4th edition of the festival saw the expansion of the Industry Panels put on by the festival but also saw the shrinking down of the vendor village. The lineup included 8 feature films and 15 shorts and again featured multiple screenings for many films. The 4th edition ran from November 27 to 29, 2015 and hosted the world premieres of Night Cries, Secret Santa and White Raven along with local and Canadian premieres of Farhope Tower, The Dark Stranger, Save Yourself, Bite and Larry Kent's controversial She Who Must Burn, which won best picture that year.\n\nThe 2016 festival moved to the confines of the Cineplex Odeon Yonge & Dundas Cinemas for its 5th edition. The move – spurred by the ticket sales of previous years – meant moving into a theater screen with more than double the capacity of the previous venue, alleviating the need for repeat screenings and allowing audiences to view the entire program without screening conflicts. The festival also expanded to 4 days from the previous 3, running Nov 24 to Nov 27, 2016. Industry Panels moved to Duke's Refresher bar and the festival ran not one but two midnight screenings, one each both Friday and Saturday night, as the lineup moved to 9 features and 24 shorts. The festival also launched its first DVD compilation of short films entitled \"Blood in the Snow presents: Bloody BITS Shorts Compilation\" for sale in the lobby of the theater. Films hosted included World Premieres of 3 Dead Trick or Treaters, Streamer and Inspiration along with Toronto Premieres of Capture Kill Release, The Sublet, 24 x 36: A Movie about Movie Posters, Holy Hell, Kidnap Capital and Best Picture Winner The Unseen.\n\nThe 6th edition of the festival saw another venue change as BITS moved to it new home at The Royal Cinema. The move meant the elimination of the traditional midnight show that had been part of the programming since year 1, but saw the festival stay at 4 days in length, running Nov 23–Nov 26, 2017. The move also added another 100 seats in capacity for the festival and attendance numbers continued to grow. Industry Panels moved to the local Monarch Tavern and the festival also held its first-ever movie poster gallery show in conjunction with the festival at nearby artspace the Super Wonder Gallery. The lineup showed 9 feature films and 23 shorts and also included formal awards show hosted by Nick Smyth after the completion of the closing gala film. Films hosted included World Premieres of Red Spring and Blood Child as well as critical darlings Fake Blood and The Child Remains along with Best Picture winner Buckout Road, Art of Obsession, Kill Order (aka Meza), Darken and holiday themed slasher Once Upon a Time at Christmas.\n\nAnnounced in January 2018, BITS 7th edition will be expanding yet again as the festival will now run 6 days from Nov 22 to Nov 27, 2018 at the Royal Cinema. Film Submissions opened February 1, 2018 on Film Freeway.\n\nIn 2014, many of the team behind the Blood in the Snow Canadian Film Festival made an anthology film called Late Night Double Feature. The film project was developed by Festival Director Kelly Michael Stewart and directed by three BITS alumni directors Navin Ramaswaran (One More For The Road), Zach Ramelan (Dead Rush) and Torin Langen (Malleus Maleficarum). The film also features acting roles from Kelly Michael Stewart and BITS Senior Programmers Jason Tannis (who was also an Executive Producer), Kirk Haviland, BITS team members Jen Gorman & R.X. Zammit. To avoid a conflict of interest, the film didn't play BITS and the film had its Canadian Premiere at the 2015 Canadian Film Fest on March 26, 2015 instead.\n\nBlood in the Snow started its own spin-off TV series on Bell tv1 in early 2016. This series is free on demand for Bell subscribers on Channel One. This interview style TV series is hosted by Festival Director Kelly Michael Stewart and was shot at the Carlton Cinema (where the festival took place between 2013 and 2015). Its guests for season one included Ryan M. Andrews, Brigitte Kingsley, Chris Alexander, Justin McConnell, Tricia Lee and Christopher Grioux. Season 2 featured a couple/group interview dynamic as opposed to the solo interview style of season 1 with guests including Bea Macapagal and Larica Perera, Greg Kovacs and Darren Hutchings, Gabriel Carrer and Ry Barrett, Cody Calahan and Chad Archbald, Richard Powell and Zach Green, Kat Threlkeld and Lance Fernandes along with Greg and Colette Jeffs. In 2017 it was revealed that Bell would be phasing out Bell TV1 from its cable channel lineup, but BITS TV lives on as a series of pre-show segments played during the festival.\n\n2017 saw the launch of BITS RADIO, a new interview-based podcast hosted by Robert Bellamy along with rotating co-hosts from the BITS team including Kelly Michael Stewart, Jason Tannis, Kirk Haviland and Carolyn Mauricette. The podcast started with a live launch at the London On-based Shock Stock genre convention and has featured interviews done at Toronto's Horrorama convention after the 2017 lineup announcement as well as interviews done in front of a live audience at the 2017 festival. The podcast remains ongoing.\n\nIn 2016, in conjunction with Black Fawn Distribution (a sub-division of Black Fawn Films), BITS released a shorts compilation containing some of the best shorts from its first 4 years entitled \"Blood in the Snow Presents: Bloody BITS Short Compilation\". The DVD featured 7 shorts from previous festivals including Dead All Night, Lively, Uncommon Enemies, Greater Than, One More For The Road, Tasha and Friends and Seiren. As of February 2018, a 2nd volume of the compilation is in the works and expected to be ready before the end of the year.\n"}
{"id": "5885591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5885591", "title": "Bud Day", "text": "Bud Day\n\nGeorge Everette \"Bud\" Day (24 February 1925 – 27 July 2013) was a United States Air Force Officer, Aviator, and Veteran of World War II, Korean War and Vietnam War. He was also a prisoner of war, and recipient of the Medal of Honor and Air Force Cross. , he is the only person to be awarded both the Medal of Honor and Air Force Cross. He was posthumously advanced to the rank of Brigadier General effective March 27, 2018 as directed by the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. \n\nDay's actions from 26 August 1967 through 14 March 1973, were the last to earn the Medal of Honor prior to the end of U.S. involvement in the war on 30 April 1975, though some honorees (e.g. Leslie H. Sabo Jr., honored on 16 May 2012) were cited for their medals after Day's recognition on 4 March 1976. He is the most decorated United States Military Officer since Douglas MacArthur.\n\nDay was born in Sioux City, Iowa, on 24 February 1925. In 1942 he dropped out of Central High School and enlisted in the United States Marine Corps (USMC).\n\nAfter the war, Day attended Morningside College on the G.I. Bill, earning a bachelor of science degree, followed by law school at the University of South Dakota School of Law, receiving a Juris Doctor. Day passed the bar exam in 1949 and was admitted to the bar in South Dakota. In later life, Day was also awarded a Master of Arts degree from Saint Louis University, a doctor of humane letters from Morningside, and a doctor of laws from Troy State University. Day was admitted to the Florida Bar in 1977.\n\nEnlisting in the USMC on 10 December 1942, Day served 30 months in the North Pacific during World War II as a member of a 5-inch gun battery with the 3rd Defense Battalion on Johnston Island, but he never saw combat. He was discharged (the first time) on 24 November 1945.\n\nOn 11 December 1946, Day joined the Army Reserve, serving until 10 December 1949. On 17 May 1950, Day received a direct commission as a second lieutenant in the Iowa Air National Guard. He was called to active duty on 15 March 1951 for undergraduate pilot training in the U.S. Air Force. He was awarded his pilot wings at Webb Air Force Base, Texas, in September 1952, continuing through December 1952 in All-Weather Interceptor School and Gunnery School.\n\nFrom February 1953 to August 1955 during the Korean War, Day served two tours as a fighter-bomber pilot, flying the Republic F-84 Thunderjet in the 559th Strategic Fighter Squadron. Promoted to captain, he decided to make the Air Force a career and was augmented into the Regular Air Force. He was assigned to the 55th Fighter Bomber Squadron. He then trained to fly the F-100 Super Sabre in 1957 while stationed at Royal Air Force Wethersfield in the United Kingdom through June 1959. It was during this time that he had to bail out of a jet fighter without a parachute, becoming the first person ever to live through such a feat. According to Day, a pine tree cushioned his fall.\n\nDay was assistant professor of aerospace science at the Air Force ROTC detachment at Saint Louis University in St. Louis, Missouri, from June 1959 to August 1963.\n\nAnticipating retirement in 1968 and now a major, Day volunteered for a tour in South Vietnam and was assigned to the 31st Tactical Fighter Wing at Tuy Hoa Air Base in April 1967. At that time, he had more than 5,000 flying hours, with 4,500 of them in fighters. On 25 June 1967, with extensive previous service flying two tours in F-100s, Major Day was made the first commander of Detachment 1, 416th Tactical Fighter Squadron, 37th Tactical Fighter Wing based at Phu Cat Air Base. Under the project name \"Commando Sabre\", twin-seat USAF F-100Fs were evaluated as a Fast Forward Air Controller (Fast FAC) aircraft in high threat areas, given that F-4 Phantom II aircraft were in high demand for strike and Combat Air Patrol (CAP) roles. Using the call sign \"Misty\", the name of Day's favorite song, his detachment of four two-seat F-100Fs and 16 pilots became pioneer \"Fast FACs\") over Laos and North Vietnam. All Misty FAC crews were volunteers with at least 100 combat missions in Vietnam and 1,000 minimum flight hours. Tours in Commando Sabre were temporary and normally limited to four months or about 60 missions.\n\nOn 26 August 1967, Major Day was flying F-100F-15-NA, AF Serial No. 56-3954, call sign Misty 01, on his 26th Fast FAC sortie, directing a flight of F-105 Thunderchiefs in an air strike against a surface-to-air missile (SAM) site north of Thon Cam Son and west of Đồng Hới, north of the DMZ in North Vietnam. Day was on his 65th mission into North Vietnam and acting as check pilot for Captain Corwin M. \"Kipp\" Kippenhan, who was upgrading to aircraft commander. 37 mm antiaircraft fire crippled the aircraft, forcing the crew to eject. In the ejection, Day's right arm was broken in three places when he struck the side of the cockpit, and he also received eye and back injuries.\n\nKippenhan was rescued by a USAF HH-3E, but Day was unable to contact the rescue helicopter by survival radio and was quickly captured by North Vietnamese local militia. On his fifth night, when he was still within 20 miles (32 kilometers) of the DMZ, Day escaped from his initial captors despite his serious injuries. Although stripped of both his boots and flight suit, Day crossed the DMZ back into South Vietnam. Within 2 miles (3 kilometers) of the U.S. Marine firebase at Con Thien and after 12 to 15 days of evading, he was captured again, this time by a Viet Cong patrol that wounded him in the leg and hand with gunfire.\n\nTaken back to his original camp, Day was tortured for escaping, breaking his right arm again. He then was moved to several prison camps near Hanoi, where he was periodically beaten, starved, and tortured. In December 1967, Day shared a cell with Navy Lt. Cdr. and future senator and presidential candidate John McCain. Air Force major Norris Overly nursed both back to health, and McCain later devised a makeshift splint of bamboo and rags that helped heal Day's seriously atrophied arm.\n\nOn 14 March 1973, Day was released after five years and seven months as a North Vietnamese prisoner. Within three days Day was reunited with his wife, Doris Sorensen Day, and four children at March Air Force Base, California. On 4 March 1976, President Gerald Ford awarded Day the Medal of Honor for his personal bravery while a captive in North Vietnam.\n\nDay had been promoted to colonel while a prisoner, and he decided to remain in the Air Force in hopes of being promoted to brigadier general. Although initially too weak to resume operational flying, he spent a year in physical rehabilitation and with 13 separate medical waivers, he was returned to active flying status. He underwent conversion training to the F-4 Phantom II and was appointed vice commander of the 33rd Tactical Fighter Wing at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida.\n\nDay, in 2008, said of his imprisonment, \"As awful as it sounds, no one could say we did not do well. ...[Being a POW] was a major issue in my life and one that I am extremely proud of. I was just living day to day. One bad cold and I would have been dead.\"\n\nAfter being passed over for nomination to brigadier general, Day retired from active duty in 1977 to resume practicing law in Florida. At his retirement he had nearly 8,000 total flying hours, 4,900 in single-engine jets, and had flown the F-80 Shooting Star, F-84 Thunderjet, F-100 Super Sabre, F-101 Voodoo, F-104 Starfighter, F-105 Thunderchief, F-106 Delta Dart, F-4 Phantom II, A-4 Skyhawk, A-7 Corsair II, CF-5 Tiger, and F-15 Eagle jet fighters.\n\nFollowing his retirement, Day wrote an autobiographical account of his experiences as a prisoner of war, \"Return with Honor\", followed by \"Duty, Honor, Country\", which updated his autobiography to include his post–Air Force years. Among other endeavors, in 1996 Day filed a class action lawsuit for breach of contract against the United States government on behalf of military retirees who were stripped of their military medical care benefits at age 65 and told to apply for Medicare. Although winning the case in the district court in 2001, the judgment against the U.S. was overturned by the U.S. Court of Appeals in 2002. Congress later redressed this situation by establishing the TRICARE for Life (TFL) program, which restored TRICARE military medical benefits for career military retirees over the age of 65, making the retirees eligible for both programs with Medicare as the primary payer and TRICARE as the secondary payer.\n\nCol George \"Bud\" day was posthumously advanced to the rank of brigadier general during a Heritage to Horizons summer concert series at the Air Force Memorial in Arlington, Virginia, June 8, 2018. The ceremony was presided over by the Chief of the Staff of the Air Force, General David L. Goldfein, and attended by his widow, Mrs. Doris Day. The posthumous advancement of Day was introduced by former prisoner of war cell mate and current Senator John McCain and was directed by the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. The rank advancement was effective March 27, 2018.\n\nDay was an active member of the Florida Republican Party, was involved in the 527 group Swift Vets and POWs for Truth, and campaigned with John McCain in 2000 and 2008. In the months leading up to the 2004 U.S. presidential election, Day appeared in television advertisements—along with other members of the 527 group Swift Vets and POWs for Truth—decrying John Kerry's antiwar activities following his military service during the Vietnam War and declaring him \"unfit\" for service and of a \"dishonest\" disposition for comments and actions made by Kerry after the Vietnam War, including his testimony before Congress in Washington, D.C. During a 2008 teleconference with reporters from the Miami Herald, Day made comments regarding John McCain's stance on the Iraq War, stating that \"I don't intend to kneel, and I don't advocate to anybody that we kneel, and John [McCain] doesn't advocate to anybody that we kneel.\" Also during this interview he sparked controversy by making a broad generalization about what some saw as an ideological divide between Islam and America: \"The Muslims have said either we kneel, or they're going to kill us.\" In the same interview when questioned about the role of 527 organizations in contemporary American politics, particularly his work for the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, Day stated \"the bottom line is this: 527 groups can do very effective, truthful things, and the Swift Boat attack was totally truthful.\"\n\nDay lived in Shalimar, Florida. He had 14 grandchildren and was a member of the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod.\n\nDay died on 27 July 2013 surrounded by family at his home in Shalimar. He was buried on August 1 at Barrancas National Cemetery at NAS Pensacola, Florida, U.S. (New Area, Sec. 51, Grave 30; ).\n\nJohn McCain, Day's prisoner-of-war cellmate, said on Day's death, \"He was the bravest man I ever knew, and his fierce resistance and resolute leadership set the example for us in prison of how to return home with honor.\"\n\nA number of structures have been named after Day. On 14 March 1997, the new Survival School Building at Fairchild Air Force Base, Washington, was named in his honor. In 2002 the Sioux City, Iowa, airport was renamed Sioux Gateway Airport/Colonel Bud Day Field. On 7 May 2010, Day Manor, a visiting officers quarters (VOQ) at Goodfellow Air Force Base, Texas, was dedicated in his honor. A section of State Road 397 just outside Eglin Air Force Base was named Col. Bud Day Boulevard on 12 October 2010.\n\nIn May 2014, Florida's state legislature designated the U.S. Highway 98 overpass in front of the Hurlburt Field main gate \"Colonel Bud Day Overpass.\"\n\nOn 4 January 2008 Day was awarded the Freedom Communications Spirit of Freedom Award on behalf of the Northwest Florida Daily News.\n\nOn 15 March 2014, he was named the exemplar for the Class of 2017 at the United States Air Force Academy. Day was chosen for this honor because of his embracing of the Air Force Core Values: integrity first, service before self, excellence in all we do.\n\nIt was announced Day will be inducted into the National Aviation Hall of Fame on October 1, 2016 in Dayton, Ohio.\n Day was the only person ever to have been awarded both the Medal of Honor and the Air Force Cross. He is widely considered to be the most-decorated airman in history.\n\nRank and organization: Colonel (then Major), U.S. Air Force, Forward Air Controller Pilot of an F-100 aircraft.\nPlace and date: North Vietnam, 26 August 1967.\nEntered service at: Sioux City, Iowa.\nBorn: February 24, 1925, Sioux City, Iowa.\nGeneral Orders: GB-180, 22 March 1976\n\nCitation: On 26 August 1967, Colonel Day was forced to eject from his aircraft over North Vietnam when it was hit by ground fire. His right arm was broken in 3 places, and his left knee was badly sprained. He was immediately captured by hostile forces and taken to a prison camp where he was interrogated and severely tortured. After causing the guards to relax their vigilance, Col. Day escaped into the jungle and began the trek toward South Vietnam. Despite injuries inflicted by fragments of a bomb or rocket, he continued southward surviving only on a few berries and uncooked frogs. He successfully evaded enemy patrols and reached the Bến Hải River, where he encountered U.S. artillery barrages. With the aid of a bamboo log float, Col. Day swam across the river and entered the demilitarized zone. Due to delirium, he lost his sense of direction and wandered aimlessly for several days. After several unsuccessful attempts to signal U.S. aircraft, he was ambushed and recaptured by the Viet Cong, sustaining gunshot wounds to his left hand and thigh. He was returned to the prison from which he had escaped and later was moved to Hanoi after giving his captors false information to questions put before him. Physically, Col. Day was totally debilitated and unable to perform even the simplest task for himself. Despite his many injuries, he continued to offer maximum resistance. His personal bravery in the face of deadly enemy pressure was significant in saving the lives of fellow aviators who were still flying against the enemy. Col. Day's conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of the U.S. Air Force and reflect great credit upon himself and the U.S. Armed Forces.\n\nThe Air Force Cross is presented to George Everett Day, Colonel, United States Air Force, for extraordinary heroism in military operations against an opposing armed force as a Prisoner of War in North Vietnam from 16 July 1969 to 14 October 1969. During this period, Colonel Day was subjected to maximum punishment and torture by Vietnamese guards to obtain a detailed confession of escape plans, policies, and orders of the American senior ranking officer in the camp, and the communications methods used by the Americans interned in the camp. Colonel Day withstood this punishment and gave nothing of value to the Vietnamese, although he sustained many injuries and open wounds to his body. Through his extraordinary heroism and willpower, in the face of the enemy, Colonel Day reflected the highest credit upon himself and the United States Air Force.\nGeneral Orders: Department of the Air Force, Special Orders GB-1152, (October 29, 1974)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10917857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10917857", "title": "Chicago stepping", "text": "Chicago stepping\n\nChicago-Style Stepping, (also known as Steppin') is an urban dance that originated in Chicago and continues to evolve while defining its unique style and culture within the context of mainstream Swing dance. Chicago-Style Stepping has gained popularity, particularly in the urban neighborhoods of America. \"Chicago-Style Stepping\" makes reference to other urban styles of dance found throughout the United States larger enclaves in cities such as Detroit, Cleveland, Baltimore and Washington, D.C.\n\nChicago-Style Stepping, affectionately known as \"steppin,\" like most social dances, evolved from the \"Bop\" in the 1970s. In 1973 Sam Chatman was the first to coin the term \"Chicago Step\", and has been widely credited with marking steppin's evolutionary transition from Bop. \nThe swing dance known as Steppin' is a part of the Western Swing family. The parent dance \"Chicago Bop\" may have been more Eastern Swing, but Steppin' has characteristics more similar to Western, especially its usage of a lane or slot. The term \"Bop\" was used to describe the dance form by Chicagoans until the early 1970s. Prior to that time \"Bop\" was a universally known term with its origin beginning sometime between 1945 & 1950 to express music and dance. The dance known as Chicago Steppin' evolved from Bop and is more likely a derivative of Jitterbug. No published syllabuses exist for the dance. Chicago-Style Stepping gained a real foothold when a local radio station, WVAZ (102.7FM/1390AM) began playing \"Mr. Fix-It\" and \"Loves Gonna Last\", two obscure songs recorded by Jeffree (Jeffree Perry) from his MCA 1979 Jeffree album. \n\nR. Kelly's songs that featured Steppin' or Stepping helped move the dance into mainstream culture. The dance leveled off and was surpassed by other partner dance forms like New Style Hustle, Zouk, and Kizomba. The social dance is very popular in black communities across the United States.\n\nChicago Stepping is a slotted dance. The follower is typically kept traveling up and down the slot. Two action two one count cycle is the structure. Patterns like \"roll out and rollback\" describe the action on the slot or lane. The lane belongs to the follower and the leaders travel on, off and around the slot or lane. Steppin' has a 6 or 8 count basic pattern. Its tempo ranges 70 to 100 bpm. Its basic rhythm pattern consists of a double and two syncopated triples. The patterns start traditionally on the downbeat of one. The leader's footwork is started on their Left and finished on their Right. The follower's dance is naturally opposite. The dance bears similiar characteristics to New York Hustle and West Coast Swing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22604293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22604293", "title": "Concorso d'Eleganza Villa d'Este", "text": "Concorso d'Eleganza Villa d'Este\n\nConcorso d'Eleganza Villa d'Este (\"Competition of Elegance of Villa d'Este\") is a \"Concours d'Elegance\" event for classic and vintage cars. It has taken place every year since 1929 during the last weekend of May near the Villa d'Este hotel in Cernobbio, on the shores of Lake Como in Italy. Since 2011, the event takes place in the second half of May.\n\nBMW Group has organised the event, jointly with the Villa d'Este hotel, for the last ten years. Visitors can admire about fifty cars, all built between the 1920s and the 1970s, organized in different categories.\n\nCar makers also take advantage of the event to showcase some of their upcoming models. For example, a working Aston Martin One-77 was officially unveiled to the press during the event.\n\nRenault Trezor\n\nFerrari 166 MM, Barchetta 1950\nAlfa Romeo 8C 2300, Spider 1932\nFerrari 166 MM, Barchetta 1950\n\nConcorso d’Eleganza Design Award (By Public Referendum at Villa Erba): \nBentley EXP 10 Speed Six, Coupé 2015\n\nAlfa Romeo 6C 1750 GS, Spider, 1931\nMaserati 450 S, Roadster 1956\nAlfa Romeo 6C 1750 GS, Spider, 1931\n\nConcorso d’Eleganza Design Award (By Public Referendum at Villa Erba): \nMaserati Alfieri, Coupé 2014\n\nBugatti 57SC Atlantic, Jean Bugatti, 1938\nBugatti 57SC Atlantic, Jean Bugatti, 1938\nBugatti 57SC Atlantic, Jean Bugatti, 1938\n\nConcorso d’Eleganza Design Award (By Public Referendum at Villa Erba): \nAlfa Romeo Disco Volante Touring Superleggera, Coupé 2013\n\n\nConcorso d’Eleganza Design Award: Alfa Romeo 4C, 2011\n\nAlfa Romeo 33 Stradale, Berlinetta, Scaglione, 1968 (by the Jury and by Public Referendum at Villa Erba) and Alfa Romeo 6C 2500 SS, Coupé, Bertone, 1942 (by Public Referendum at Villa d’Este)\n\nConcorso d’Eleganza Design Award (By Public Referendum at Villa Erba): \nAston Martin V12 Zagato, Coupé, 2011\n\nMaserati A6GCS, Spider, Frua, 1955\nTalbot-Lago T150 C SS Teardrop, Coupé, Figoni & Falaschi, 1938\nTalbot-Lago T150 C SS Teardrop, Coupé, Figoni & Falaschi, 1938\n\nConcorso d’Eleganza Design Award (By Public Referendum at Villa Erba): \nZagato Alfa Romeo TZ3 Corsa, Coupé, 2010\n\nAlfa Romeo 8C 2900B, Berlinetta Touring, 1938.\nAlfa Romeo 8C 2900B, Berlinetta Touring, 1938.\nAlfa Romeo 8C 2900B, Berlinetta Touring, 1938.\n\nConcorso d’Eleganza Design Award (By Public Referendum at Villa Erba): \nAston Martin Lagonda One-77, Coupé, 2009\n\nMercedes-Benz 540K Autobahnkurier Coupé, 1938\nFerrari 166 MM Berlinetta Touring, 1949\nDelahaye 135M 2-seater roadster Figoni & Falaschi, 1937\n\nConcorso d’Eleganza Design Award (By Public Referendum at Villa Erba): \nBugatti Veyron Fbg Hermès, 2008\n\n"}
{"id": "3647682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3647682", "title": "D'Oyly Carte Opera Company", "text": "D'Oyly Carte Opera Company\n\nThe D'Oyly Carte Opera Company is a professional light opera company that staged Gilbert and Sullivan's Savoy operas nearly year-round in the UK and sometimes toured in Europe, North America and elsewhere, from the 1870s until 1982. The company was revived for short seasons and tours from 1988 to 2003, and with Scottish Opera it later co-produced two productions.\n\nIn 1875, Richard D'Oyly Carte asked the dramatist W. S. Gilbert and the composer Arthur Sullivan to collaborate on a short comic opera to round out an evening's entertainment. When that work, \"Trial by Jury\", became a success, Carte put together a syndicate to produce a full-length Gilbert and Sullivan work, \"The Sorcerer\" (1877), followed by \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" (1878). After \"Pinafore\" became an international sensation, Carte jettisoned his difficult investors and formed a new partnership with Gilbert and Sullivan that became the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company. The company produced the succeeding ten Gilbert and Sullivan operas and many other operas and companion pieces, mostly at the Savoy Theatre in London, which Carte built in 1881 for that purpose. The company also mounted tours in Britain, New York and elsewhere, usually running several companies simultaneously. Carte's able assistant, Helen Lenoir, became his wife in 1888 and, after his death in 1901, she ran the company until her own death in 1913. By this time, it had become a year-round Gilbert and Sullivan touring repertory company.\n\nCarte's son Rupert inherited the company. Beginning in 1919, he mounted new seasons in London with new set and costume designs, while continuing the year-round tours in Britain and abroad. With the help of the director J. M. Gordon and the conductor Isidore Godfrey, Carte ran the company for 35 years. He redesigned the Savoy Theatre in 1928 and sponsored a series of recordings over the years that helped to keep the operas popular. After Rupert's death in 1948, his daughter Bridget inherited the company and hired Frederic Lloyd as general manager. The company continued to tour for 35 weeks each year, issue new recordings and play London seasons of Gilbert and Sullivan. In 1961, the last copyright on the Gilbert and Sullivan operas expired, and Bridget set up and endowed a charitable trust that presented the operas until mounting costs and a lack of public funding forced the closure of the company in 1982. It re-formed in 1988 with a legacy left by Bridget D'Oyly Carte, played short tours and London seasons, and issued some popular recordings. Denied significant funding from the English Arts Council, it suspended productions in 2003. With Scottish Opera, it co-produced \"The Pirates of Penzance\" 2013 and \"The Mikado\" in 2016.\n\nSome of the company's performers, over the decades, became stars of their day and often moved on to careers in musical theatre or grand opera. The company licensed the operas for performance in Australasia and to numerous amateur troupes in Britain and elsewhere, providing orchestra parts and prompt books for hire. The company kept the Savoy operas in the public eye for over a century and left an enduring legacy of production styles and stage business that continue to be emulated in new productions, as well as recordings.\n\nBy 1874, Richard D'Oyly Carte, a musician and ambitious young impresario, had begun producing operettas in London. He announced his ambitions on the front of the programme for one of his productions that year: \"It is my desire to establish in London a permanent abode for light opera.\" \"The Observer\" reported, \"Mr D'Oyly Carte is not only a skilful manager, but a trained musician, and he appears to have grasped the fact that the public are beginning to become weary of what is known as a genuine opera bouffe, and are ready to welcome a musical entertainment of a higher order, such as a musician might produce with satisfaction\". He wanted to establish a body of tasteful English comic opera that would appeal to families, in contrast to the bawdy burlesques and adaptations of French operettas and opera bouffes that dominated the London musical stage at that time.\n\nIn early 1875, Carte was managing London's Royalty Theatre. Needing a short piece to round out an evening's entertainment featuring the popular Offenbach operetta \"La Périchole\" he brought W. S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan together. On tour in 1871, Carte had conducted Arthur Sullivan's one-act comic opera \"Cox and Box\", which received an 1874 London revival. In 1873, W. S. Gilbert had offered a libretto to Carte about an English courtroom, but at the time Carte knew of no composer available to set it to music. Carte remembered Gilbert's libretto and suggested to Gilbert that Sullivan write the music for a one-act comic opera, \"Trial by Jury\", which was quickly composed and added to the Royalty's bill in March 1875. The witty and \"very English\" little piece proved even more popular than \"La Périchole\" and became the first great success of Carte's scheme to found his school of English comic opera, playing for 300 performances from 1875 to 1877, as well as touring and enjoying many revivals.\nAt the Theatre Royal, in Dublin, Ireland in September 1875, while there managing the first tour of \"Trial by Jury\", Carte met a young Scottish actress, Helen Lenoir. She became fascinated by his vision for establishing a company to promote English comic opera and gave up her next engagement to join his theatrical organisation as his secretary. Lenoir was well-educated, and her grasp of detail and diplomacy, as well as her organisational ability and business acumen, surpassed even Carte's. She became intensely involved in all of his business affairs and soon managed many of the company's responsibilities, especially concerning touring. She later travelled to America numerous times over the years to arrange the details of the company's New York engagements and American tours. Still, Carte continued to produce continental operetta, touring in the summer of 1876 with a repertoire consisting of three English adaptations of French opera bouffe and two one-act English curtain raisers (\"Happy Hampstead\" and \"Trial by Jury\"). Carte himself was the musical director of this travelling company, which disbanded after the tour.\n\nIn 1876, Carte found four financial backers and formed the Comedy Opera Company in 1876 to produce more works by Gilbert and Sullivan, along with the works of other British lyricist/composer teams. With this theatre company, Carte finally had the financial resources, after many failed attempts, to produce a new full-length Gilbert and Sullivan opera. Carte leased the Opera Comique, a small theatre off The Strand. The first comic opera produced by the Comedy Opera Company was Gilbert and Sullivan's \"The Sorcerer\", about a tradesmanlike London sorcerer. It opened in November 1877 together with \"Dora's Dream\", a curtain-raiser with music by Sullivan's assistant Alfred Cellier and words by Arthur Cecil, a friend of both Gilbert and Sullivan.\n\nInstead of writing a piece for production by a theatre proprietor, as was usual in Victorian theatres, Gilbert, Sullivan and Carte produced the show with their own financial support. They were therefore able to select their own cast of performers, rather than being obliged to use the actors already engaged at the theatre. They chose talented actors, most of whom were not well-known stars and did not command high fees, and to whom they could teach a more naturalistic style of performance than was commonly used at the time. Carte's talent agency provided many of the artists to perform in the new work. They then tailored their work to the particular abilities of these performers. Some of the cast members, including principal comedian George Grossmith, Richard Temple and Rutland Barrington, stayed with the company for almost 15 years. Two other longstanding members of the company were Rosina Brandram, who started in D'Oyly Carte touring companies with \"The Sorcerer\", and Jessie Bond who joined the group for \"Pinafore\" at the Opera Comique in 1878. As Grossmith wrote in 1888, \"We are all a very happy family.\"\n\nKnowing that Gilbert and Sullivan shared his vision of broadening the audience for British light opera by increasing its quality and respectability, Carte gave Gilbert wider authority as a director than was customary among Victorian producers, and Gilbert tightly controlled all aspects of production, including staging, design and movement. Gilbert hired the Gaiety Theatre's ballet-master John D'Auban to choreograph most of the Savoy operas. The skill with which Gilbert and Sullivan used their performers had an effect on the audience; as the critic Herman Klein wrote: \"we secretly marvelled at the naturalness and ease with which [the Gilbertian quips and absurdities] were said and done. For until then no living soul had seen upon the stage such weird, eccentric, yet intensely human beings ... [They] conjured into existence a hitherto unknown comic world of sheer delight.\" \"The Sorcerer\" ran for 178 performances, a healthy run at the time, making a profit, and Carte sent out a touring company in March 1878. Sheet music from the show sold well, and street musicians played the melodies. The success of \"The Sorcerer\" showed Carte, Gilbert and Sullivan that there was a future in family-friendly English comic opera.\n\nThe next Gilbert and Sullivan collaboration, \"H.M.S. Pinafore\", opened in May 1878. The opera's initial slow business was generally ascribed to a heat wave that made the stuffy Opera Comique particularly uncomfortable. Carte's partners in the Comedy Opera Company lost confidence in the show and posted closing notices. After Carte made promotional efforts and Sullivan included some of the \"Pinafore\" music in several promenade concerts that he conducted at Covent Garden, \"Pinafore\" became a hit. The Opera Comique was required to close at Christmas 1878 for repairs to drainage and sewage under the Public Health Act of 1875. Carte used the enforced closure of the theatre to invoke a contract clause reverting the rights of \"Pinafore\" and \"Sorcerer\" to Gilbert and Sullivan after the initial run of \"H.M.S. Pinafore\". Carte then took a six-month personal lease on the theatre beginning on 1 February 1879. Carte persuaded Gilbert and Sullivan that when their original agreement with the Comedy Opera Company expired in July 1879, a business partnership among the three of them would be to their advantage. The three each put up £1,000 and formed a new partnership under the name \"Mr Richard D'Oyly Carte's Opera Company\". Under the partnership agreement, once the expenses of mounting the productions had been deducted, each of the three men was entitled to one third of the profits.\n\nOn 31 July 1879, the last day of their agreement with Gilbert and Sullivan, the directors of the Comedy Opera Company attempted to repossess the set by force during a performance, causing a celebrated fracas. Carte's stagehands managed to ward off their backstage attackers and protect the scenery. The Comedy Opera Company opened a rival production of \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" in London, but it was not as popular as the D'Oyly Carte production, and soon closed. Legal action over the ownership of the rights ended in victory for Carte, Gilbert and Sullivan. From 1 August 1879, the company, later called the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, became the sole authorised producer of the works of Gilbert and Sullivan.\n\n\"Pinafore\" became so successful that the piano score sold 10,000 copies, and Carte soon sent two additional companies out to tour in the provinces. The opera ran for 571 performances in London, the second longest run in musical theatre history up to that time. Over 150 unauthorised productions sprang up in America alone, but because American law then offered no copyright protection to foreigners, Gilbert, Sullivan and Carte had no way to prevent them. To try to make some money from the popularity of their opera in America, Carte travelled to New York with Gilbert, Sullivan and the company to present an \"authentic\" production of \"Pinafore\" on Broadway, beginning in December 1879, also mounting American tours. Beginning with \"Pinafore\", Carte licensed the J. C. Williamson company to produce the works in Australia and New Zealand.\nIn an effort to head off unauthorised American productions of their next opera, \"The Pirates of Penzance\", Carte and his partners opened it in New York on 31 December 1879, prior to its 1880 London premiere. \"Pirates\" was the only Gilbert and Sullivan opera to have its official premiere in America. Carte and his partners hoped to forestall further \"piracy\" by establishing the authorised production and tours in America before others could copy it and by delaying publication of the score and libretto. They did succeed in keeping for themselves the direct profits of the venture, but they tried without success for many years to control the American performance copyrights over their operas. \"Pirates\" was an immediate hit in New York, and later London, becoming one of the most popular Gilbert and Sullivan operas. To secure the British copyright, there was a perfunctory performance the afternoon before the New York premiere, at the Royal Bijou Theatre, Paignton, Devon, organised by Helen Lenoir.\n\nThe next Gilbert and Sullivan opera, \"Patience\", opened at the Opera Comique in April 1881 and was another big success, becoming the second longest-running piece in the series and enjoying numerous foreign productions. Patience satirised the self-indulgent Aesthetic movement of the 1870s and '80s in England, part of the 19th-century European movement that emphasised aesthetic values over moral or social themes in literature, fine art, the decorative arts, and interior design. From the beginning, the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company established strict rules for its actors and actresses, to avoid any hint of scandal such as performers were accused of in other companies. As Jessie Bond described in her autobiography:\nNo lingering about was allowed, no gossiping with the other actors; the women’s dressing-rooms were on one side of the stage, the men's on the other, and when we were not actually playing we had to mount at once our respective narrow staircases – sheep rigorously separated from the goats! Once, when my mother came to see me in London, expecting to find me dwelling in haunts of gilded luxury, and far down the road to perdition, I took her behind the scenes and showed her the arrangements for the actors and actresses, conventual in their austerity. ... I think there never was a theatre run on lines of such strict propriety; no breath of scandal ever touched it in all the twenty years of my experience. Gilbert would suffer no loose word or gesture either behind the stage or on it, and watched over us young women like a dragon.\nWith profits from the success of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas and his concert and lecture agency (his talent roster included Adelina Patti, Clara Schumann, Jacques Offenbach, Oscar Wilde and Charles Gounod), Carte bought property along the Strand with frontage onto the Thames Embankment, where he built the Savoy Theatre in 1881. He chose the name in honour of the Savoy Palace. The Savoy Theatre was a state-of-the-art facility, setting a new standard for technology, comfort and decor. It was the first public building in the world to be lit entirely by electric lights and seated nearly 1,300 people (compared to the Opera Comique's 862).\n\n\"Patience\" was the first production at the new theatre, transferring there on 10 October 1881. The first generator proved too small to power the whole building, and though the entire front-of-house was electrically lit, the stage was lit by gas until 28 December 1881. At that performance, Carte stepped on stage and broke a glowing lightbulb before the audience to demonstrate the safety of the new technology. \"The Times\" concluded that the theatre \"is admirably adapted for its purpose, its acoustic qualities are excellent, and all reasonable demands of comfort and taste are complied with.\" Carte and his manager, George Edwardes (later famous as manager of the Gaiety Theatre), introduced several innovations at the theatre, including numbered seating, free programme booklets, the \"queue\" system for the pit and gallery (an American idea) and a policy of no tipping for cloakroom or other services. Daily expenses at the theatre were about half the possible takings from ticket sales. The last eight of Gilbert and Sullivan's comic operas were premièred at the Savoy.\n\nDuring the years when the Gilbert and Sullivan operas were being written, the company also produced operas by other composer–librettist teams, either as curtain-raisers to the Gilbert and Sullivan pieces, or as touring productions, as well as other works to fill the Savoy Theatre in between Savoy operas, and Carte also toured the Gilbert and Sullivan operas extensively. For example, a souvenir programme commemorating the 250th performance of \"Patience\" in London and its 100th performance in New York shows that, aside from these two productions of \"Patience\", Carte was simultaneously producing two companies touring with \"Patience\", two companies touring with other Gilbert and Sullivan operas, a company touring with \"Olivette\" (co-produced with Charles Wyndham) a company touring \"Claude Duval\" in America, a production of \"Youth\" running at a New York theatre, a lecture tour by Archibald Forbes (a war correspondent) and productions of \"Patience\", \"Pirates\", \"Claude Duval\" and \"Billee Taylor\" in association with J. C. Williamson in Australia, among other things.\n\nIn the 1880s, Carte also introduced the practice of licensing amateur theatrical societies to present works for which he held the rights, increasing their popularity and the sales of scores and libretti, as well as the rental of band parts. This had an important influence on amateur theatre in general. Cellier and Bridgeman wrote in 1914 that, prior to the creation of the Savoy operas, amateur actors were treated with contempt by professionals. After the formation of amateur Gilbert and Sullivan companies licensed to perform the operas, professionals recognised that the amateur societies \"support the culture of music and the drama. They are now accepted as useful training schools for the legitimate stage, and from the volunteer ranks have sprung many present-day favourites.\" Cellier and Bridgeman attributed the rise in quality and reputation of the amateur groups largely to \"the popularity of, and infectious craze for performing, the Gilbert and Sullivan operas\". The National Operatic and Dramatic Association was founded in 1899. It reported, in 1914, that nearly 200 British societies were producing Gilbert and Sullivan operas that year. Carte insisted that amateur companies follow the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company staging, using its prompt books. Even after the copyrights expired at the end of 1961, the company continued to, and still does, rent out band parts to companies around the world.\n\nAfter \"Patience\", the company produced \"Iolanthe\", which opened in 1882. During its run, in February 1883, Carte signed a five-year partnership agreement with Gilbert and Sullivan, obligating them to create new operas for the company upon six months' notice. Sullivan had not intended immediately to write a new work with Gilbert, but he suffered a serious financial loss when his broker went bankrupt in November 1882 and must have felt the long-term contract necessary for his security. But he soon felt trapped. Gilbert scholar Andrew Crowther comments, regarding the agreement: \"Effectively, it made [Gilbert and Sullivan] Carte's employees – a situation which created its own resentments.\" The partnership's next opera, \"Princess Ida\", opened in January 1884. Carte soon saw that \"Ida\" was running weakly at the box office and invoked the agreement to call upon his partners for a new opera to be written. Almost from the beginning of the partnership, the musical establishment put pressure on Sullivan to abandon comic opera, and he soon regretted having signed the five-year contract. In March 1884, Sullivan told Carte that \"it is impossible for me to do another piece of the character of those already written by Gilbert and myself.\"\nDuring this conflict and others during the 1880s, Carte and Helen Lenoir frequently had to smooth over the partners' differences with a mixture of friendship and business acumen. Sullivan asked to be released from the partnership on several occasions. Nevertheless, they coaxed eight comic operas out of Gilbert and Sullivan in the 1880s. When \"Princess Ida\" closed after a comparatively short run of nine months, for the first time in the partnership's history, the next opera was not ready. To make matters worse, Gilbert suggested a plot in which people fell in love against their wills after taking a magic lozenge – a scenario that Sullivan had previously rejected, and he now rejected the \"lozenge plot\" again. Gilbert eventually came up with a new idea and began work in May 1884.\n\nThe company produced the first revival of \"The Sorcerer\", together with \"Trial by Jury\", and matinees of \"The Pirates of Penzance\" played by a cast of children, while waiting for the new work to be completed. This became the partnership's most successful opera, \"The Mikado\", which opened in March 1885. The piece satirised British institutions by setting them in a fictional Japan. At the same time, it took advantage of the Victorian craze for the exotic Far East using the \"picturesque\" scenery and costumes of Japan. \"The Mikado\" became the partnership's longest-running hit, enjoying 672 performances at the Savoy Theatre, the second longest run for any work of musical theatre up to that time, and it was extraordinarily popular in the U.S. and worldwide. It remains the most frequently performed Savoy opera. Beginning with \"The Mikado\", Hawes Craven, the designer of the sets for Henry Irving's spectacular Shakespeare productions at the Lyceum Theatre, designed all of the D'Oyly Carte sets until 1893.\n\nThe partnership's next opera was \"Ruddigore\", which opened in January 1887. It satirised and used elements of Victorian stock melodrama. The piece, though profitable, was a relative disappointment after the extraordinary success of \"The Mikado\". When \"Ruddigore\" closed after a run of only nine months, the company mounted revivals of earlier Gilbert and Sullivan operas for almost a year. After another attempt by Gilbert to persuade Sullivan to set a \"lozenge plot\", Gilbert met his collaborator half way by writing a serio-comic plot for \"The Yeomen of the Guard\", which premiered in October 1888. The opera was a success, running for over a year, with strong New York and touring productions. During the run, in March 1889, Sullivan again expressed reluctance to write another comic opera, asking if Gilbert would write a \"dramatic work on a larger musical scale\". Gilbert declined, but offered a compromise that Sullivan ultimately accepted: The two would write a light opera for the Savoy, and at the same time, Sullivan could work on a grand opera (\"Ivanhoe\") for a new theatre that Carte was constructing to present British grand opera. The new comic opera was \"The Gondoliers\", which opened in December 1889 and became one of the partnership's greatest successes. After Carte's first wife died in 1885, Carte married Helen Lenoir in 1888, who was, by this time, nearly as important in managing the company as Carte himself.\nDuring these years, the company's high production values, and the quality of the operas, created a national and international taste for them, and the company mounted touring productions throughout the provinces, in America (generally managed by Helen), Europe and elsewhere. Queen Victoria honoured the company by calling for a Royal Command Performance of \"The Gondoliers\" at Windsor Castle in 1891. Bernard Shaw, writing in \"The World\" in October 1893, commented, \"Those who are old enough to compare the Savoy performances with those of the dark ages, taking into account the pictorial treatment of the fabrics and colours on the stage, the cultivation and intelligence of the choristers, the quality of the orchestra, and the degree of artistic good breeding, so to speak, expected from the principals, best know how great an advance has been made by Mr. D'Oyly Carte.\"\n\nOn 22 April 1890, during the run of \"The Gondoliers\", Gilbert discovered that maintenance expenses for the theatre, including a new £500 carpet for the front lobby of the theatre, were being charged to the partnership instead of borne by Carte. Gilbert confronted Carte, and Carte refused to reconsider the accounts: Even though the amount of the charge was not great, Gilbert felt it was a moral issue involving Carte's integrity, and he could not look past it. Gilbert wrote in a letter to Sullivan that \"I left him with the remark that it was a mistake to kick down the ladder by which he had risen\". Helen Carte wrote that Gilbert had addressed Carte \"in a way that I should not have thought you would have used to an offending menial.\" Gilbert brought a lawsuit, but Sullivan sided with Carte, who was building the Royal English Opera House, the inaugural production of which was to be Sullivan's forthcoming grand opera. Gilbert won the suit, but the partnership disbanded.\n\nSullivan's opera, \"Ivanhoe\", had a successful run, but no other operas shared Carte's new opera house, and so the theatre soon failed. Carte sold the opera house, and it eventually became the Palace Theatre.\n\nAfter \"The Gondoliers\" closed in 1891, Gilbert withdrew the performance rights to his libretti and vowed to write no more operas for the Savoy. The D'Oyly Carte company turned to new writing teams for the Savoy, first producing \"The Nautch Girl\", by George Dance, Frank Desprez and Edward Solomon, which ran for a satisfying 200 performances in 1891–92. Next was a revival of Solomon and Sydney Grundy's \"The Vicar of Bray\", which played through the summer of 1892. Grundy and Sullivan's \"Haddon Hall\" then held the stage until April 1893. While the company presented new pieces and revivals at the Savoy, Carte's touring companies continued to play throughout Britain and in America. In 1894, for example, Carte had four companies touring Britain and one playing in America.\nGilbert's aggressive, though successful, legal action had embittered Sullivan and Carte, but the partnership had been so profitable that the Cartes eventually sought to reunite Gilbert and Sullivan. The reconciliation finally came through the efforts of Tom Chappell, who published the sheet music to the Savoy operas. In 1893, the company produced the penultimate Gilbert and Sullivan collaboration, \"Utopia, Limited\". While \"Utopia\" was being prepared, the company produced \"Jane Annie\", by J. M. Barrie and Arthur Conan Doyle, with music by Ernest Ford. Despite the popularity of Barrie and Conan Doyle, the show was a flop, closing in July 1893 after only 51 performances. \"Utopia\" was the Savoy's most expensive production to date, but it ran for a comparatively disappointing 245 performances, until June 1894, turning a very modest profit. The company then played first \"Mirette\", composed by André Messager, then \"The Chieftain\", by F. C. Burnand and Sullivan. These ran for 102 and 97 performances, respectively. After \"The Chieftain\" closed, the company toured the London suburbs, while Carte leased the Savoy Theatre to the Carl Rosa Opera Company. The theatre was dark during the summer of 1895, reopening in November for a revival of \"The Mikado\". This was followed by \"The Grand Duke\", in 1896, which ran for 123 performances and was Gilbert and Sullivan's only financial failure. \"The Gondoliers\" turned out to be Gilbert and Sullivan's last big hit, and after \"The Grand Duke\", the two men never collaborated again.\n\nIn 1894, Carte had hired his son, Rupert, as an assistant. Rupert assisted Mrs. Carte and W. S. Gilbert with the first revival of \"The Yeomen of the Guard\" at the Savoy in May 1897. Throughout the later 1890s, Carte's health was declining, and Mrs. Carte assumed more and more of the responsibilities of running the opera company. She profitably managed the theatre and the provincial touring companies. The Savoy's shows during this period received comparatively short runs, including \"His Majesty\" (1897), \"The Grand Duchess of Gerolstein\" (1897), \"The Beauty Stone\" (1898) and \"The Lucky Star\" (1899), as well as revivals of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas. Sullivan's \"The Beauty Stone\" ran for only 50 performances. In 1899, the Savoy finally had a new success, with Sullivan and Basil Hood's \"The Rose of Persia\", which ran for 213 performances. Neither Carte nor Sullivan lived to see the production of Sullivan and Hood's \"The Emerald Isle\" (1901), for which Edward German completed the score.\n\nCarte left his theatre, opera company and hotels to his wife, who assumed full control of the family businesses. Her London and touring companies continued to present the Savoy operas in Britain and overseas. She leased the Savoy Theatre to William Greet in 1901 and oversaw his management of the company's revival of \"Iolanthe\" and the production of several new comic operas, including \"The Emerald Isle\" (1901), \"Merrie England\" (1902) and \"A Princess of Kensington\" (with music by Edward German, libretto by Basil Hood), which ran for four months in early 1903 and then toured. When \"A Princess of Kensington\" closed at the Savoy, Mrs. Carte leased the theatre to other managements until 8 December 1906. The company's fortunes declined for a time, and by 1904 there was only a single touring company wending its way through the British provinces, when it took a seven-month South African tour.\n\nIn 1906–07, Mrs. Carte staged a repertory season at the Savoy Theatre, with Gilbert returning to direct. The season, which included \"Yeomen\", \"The Gondoliers\", \"Patience\" and \"Iolanthe\", was a sensation and led to another in 1908–09 including \"The Mikado\", \"Pinafore\", \"Iolanthe\", \"Pirates\", \"The Gondoliers\" and \"Yeomen\". Afterwards, however, Mrs. Carte's health prevented her from staging more London seasons. She retired and leased the theatre to C. H. Workman, and the company did not perform in London again until 1919, although it continued to tour throughout Britain.\nAfter Gilbert's death in 1911, the company continued to produce productions of the operas in repertory until 1982. In 1911, Helen Carte hired J. M. Gordon as stage manager. Gordon, who was promoted to stage director in 1922, had been a member of the company and a stage manager under Gilbert's direction, and he fiercely preserved the company's performing traditions in exacting detail for 28 years. Except for \"Ruddigore\", which underwent some cuts and received a new overture, very few changes were made to the text and music of the operas as Gilbert and Sullivan had produced them, and the company stayed true to Gilbert's period settings. Even after Gordon's death, many of Gilbert's directorial concepts survived, both in the stage directions printed in the libretti and as preserved in company prompt books. Original choreography was also maintained. Some of the company's staging became accepted as traditional by Gilbert and Sullivan fans, and many of these traditional stagings are still imitated today in productions by both amateur and professional companies.\n\nHelen Carte died in 1913, and Carte's son Rupert D'Oyly Carte inherited the company. During World War I, he was away serving in the Royal Navy. According to H. M. Walbrook, \"Through the years of the Great War [the company] continued to be on tour through the country, drawing large and grateful audiences everywhere. They helped to sustain the spirits of the people during that stern period, and by so doing they helped to win the victory.\" The company also toured in North America several times, beginning with a Canadian tour in 1927.\n\nRupert D'Oyly Carte found the company's productions increasingly \"dowdy\", however, and on his return from the war, he determined to refresh them, bringing in new designers including W. Bridges-Adams for the sets, and, for the costumes, George Sheringham and Hugo Rumbold. He also commissioned new costumes from Percy Anderson who had worked with Gilbert and Richard D'Oyly Carte on the original productions of the later Savoy operas. Charles Ricketts redesigned sets and costumes for \"The Mikado\" (1926) and \"The Gondoliers\" (1929). His costumes for \"The Mikado\" were retained by all subsequent designers until 1982. In an interview in \"The Observer\" in August 1919, Carte set out his policy for staging the operas: \"They will be played precisely in their original form, without any alteration to the words, or any attempt to bring them up to date.\" This uncompromising declaration was modified in a later interview in which he said, \"the plays are all being restaged. ... Gilbert's words will be unaltered, though there will be some freshness in the method of rendering them. Artists must have scope for their individuality, and new singers cannot be tied down to imitate slavishly those who made successes in the old days.\"\nThe main company made a triumphant return to London for the 1919–20 season at the Prince's Theatre, playing most of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas in repertory and showing off the new sets and costumes. The success of this season led to additional London seasons in 1919–20, 1921–22, 1924, and 1926; the company toured the rest of the year. Carte's first London season stimulated renewed interest in the operas, and by 1920 he had established a second, smaller company to tour smaller towns. It was disbanded in 1927, although the company often ran multiple tours simultaneously.\nFor London seasons, Carte engaged guest conductors, first Geoffrey Toye, then Malcolm Sargent, who examined Sullivan's manuscript scores and purged the orchestral parts of accretions. So striking was the orchestral sound produced by Sargent that the press thought he had retouched the scores, and Carte had the pleasant duty of correcting their error. In a letter to \"The Times\", he noted that \"the details of the orchestration sounded so fresh that some of the critics thought them actually new... the opera was played last night exactly as written by Sullivan.\" Carte also hired Harry Norris, who started with the touring company, then was Toye's assistant before becoming musical director.\nIn 1917, the company made the first complete recording of a Gilbert and Sullivan opera, \"The Mikado\", for the Gramophone Company (later known as His Master's Voice). Rupert D'Oyly Carte supervised the company's recordings, including eight more acoustic recordings by 1924, and a series of complete electrical recordings in the late 1920s and early 1930s. There were additional recordings, in high fidelity, for Decca Records, in the late 1940s and early 1950s and stereo recordings in the late 1950s and early 1960s, all supervised after Rupert's death by his daughter, Bridget D'Oyly Carte.\n\nRupert D'Oyly Carte also redesigned the Savoy Theatre. On 3 June 1929 the Savoy closed, and it was completely rebuilt to designs by Frank A. Tugwell with décor by Basil Ionides. The old house had three tiers; the new one had two. The seating capacity was increased from 986 to 1,158. The theatre reopened 135 days later on 21 October 1929, with \"The Gondoliers,\" designed by Ricketts and conducted by Sargent. George Sheringham designed new productions that season of \"H.M.S. Pinafore\", \"The Pirates of Penzance\", and \"Patience\" (1929, with other designs contributed by Hugo Rumbold), and he later designed costumes for \"Trial by Jury\" and \"Iolanthe\".\n\nThe Savoy also hosted London seasons for the company in 1930–31, 1933, 1941, 1951, 1954, 1961, 1963–64, and 1975. London seasons at other theatres, mostly Sadler's Wells, included summer seasons from 1935 to 1939, 1942, 1947 to 1950, 1953, 1971, 1975, 1977 and 1980; and winter seasons in 1956–57, 1958–59, 1960–61, 1963–64, 1965–66, 1967–68, and then every winter between 1969–70 and 1981–82. The company continued to tour the British provinces and abroad when it was not in London, and these tours also often included London suburbs. The company's musical director from 1929 (having been assistant musical director from 1925) was Isidore Godfrey, who retained the position until 1968 and guest conducted the company in 1975, as part of the centenary season at the Savoy Theatre. Guest conductors during Godfrey's tenure were Sargent and Boyd Neel. Henry Lytton retired in 1934 after a quarter century as the principal comedian, and the company made a highly successful eight-month North American tour with its new principal comedian, Martyn Green. In 1938, many company members participated in the Technicolor film of \"The Mikado\" produced and conducted by Geoffrey Toye.\n\nOn 3 September 1939, at the outbreak of World War II, the British government ordered the immediate and indefinite closure of all theatres. Carte cancelled the autumn tour and disbanded the company. Theatres were permitted to reopen from 9 September, but it took some weeks to re-form the company. Some performers, including Martyn Green, were already committed elsewhere, and Grahame Clifford was engaged to play his roles. The company resumed touring, in Edinburgh, on Christmas Day 1939. The company continued to perform throughout the war, both on tour and in London, but in 1940 German bombing destroyed the sets and costumes for five of its shows: \"Cox and Box\", \"The Sorcerer\", \"H.M.S. Pinafore\", \"Princess Ida\" and \"Ruddigore\". The old productions of \"Pinafore\" and \"Cox and Box\" were recreated shortly after the war, and \"Ruddigore\" received a new production, planned by Carte but not seen until after his death. The other two operas took longer to rejoin the company's repertory. On the other hand, for the first wartime season, Peter Goffin, a protege of Carte's daughter, Bridget, had designed a new production of \"The Yeomen of the Guard\" first seen in January 1940, and his new \"Ruddigore\" debuted in 1948. A return to the U.S. in 1947 was very successful, and the company resumed frequent visits to America.\nRupert died in 1948, leaving a strong company to his daughter Bridget D'Oyly Carte. She soon hired Frederic Lloyd as general manager. Bridget and Lloyd also took steps to keep the productions fresh, engaging designers to redesign the costumes and scenery. Peter Goffin, who had redesigned \"Yeomen\" (1939) and \"Ruddigore\" (1948) for the company, created new settings and costumes for Bridget for half a dozen more productions: \"The Mikado\" (1952; settings only, most of the celebrated Charles Ricketts costumes being retained), \"Patience\" (1957), \"The Gondoliers\" (1958), \"Trial by Jury\" (1959), \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" (1961; ladies' costumes) and \"Iolanthe\" (1961). A new production of \"Princess Ida\" in 1954 was designed by James Wade. Eleanor Evans, however, was an example of one of the company's stage directors (from 1949 to 1953) who was said to be reluctant to update and freshen stagings. In 1957, Goffin designed a unit set for the company to facilitate touring, reducing the number of vans required to carry the scenery from twenty to nine. A 1957 review of \"Yeomen\" in \"The Times\" praised the production and marvelled at \"the continued vitality of the Savoy operas\", noting: \"The opera remains enchanting; the singing seems, on the whole, better and more musical than that which one used to hear, say, 30 years since; and though the acting lacks some of the richly crusted performances of those days, it is perhaps none the worse for that\". In 1949, the company began a new series of recordings with Decca, featuring Green, who had returned to the company after the war, and continued the series with his successor, Peter Pratt. The company cooperated with the production of the 1953 film \"The Story of Gilbert and Sullivan\", which used some former members of the company in the cast. In 1955, the company gave a seven-month tour to the U.S. to celebrate the 75th anniversary of its first American productions. In 1959, the company began the tradition of holding a zany \"last night\" on the last evening of each London season.\n\nWith the approaching end of the D'Oyly Carte monopoly on Gilbert and Sullivan performances, when the copyright on Gilbert's words expired in 1961 (Sullivan’s music had already come out of copyright at the end of 1950), Bridget D'Oyly Carte contributed the company and all its assets to an independent charitable trust. She endowed the trust with the company's scenery, costumes, band parts and other assets, together with a cash endowment, and supervised the production of operas on behalf of the trust until economic necessity forced the closure of the company in 1982. As it turned out, competing professional productions of Gilbert and Sullivan did not harm the company. Beginning in 1960, the company re-recorded all of the operas with Pratt's successor, John Reed, and also recorded a number of other Sullivan pieces. It made a cinema film of \"The Mikado\" in 1966, and recorded for television broadcast its productions of \"Patience\" (1965) and \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" (1973). It also supplied the soundtrack for a cartoon film of \"Ruddigore\" (1967). During the 1960s, the company gave five North American tours. A new stage director, Michael Heyland, was hired in 1969, staying until 1978. Among his new productions were \"The Sorcerer\" in 1971, \"Utopia, Limited\" in 1975 and \"Iolanthe\" in 1977.\n\nIn March and April 1975, after the regular London season at Sadler's Wells, the company moved to the Savoy Theatre for a fortnight's centennial performances, beginning on 25 March, the 100th anniversary of the first performance of \"Trial by Jury\". All thirteen surviving Gilbert and Sullivan operas were performed in chronological order. \"Trial by Jury\" was given four times, as a curtain raiser to \"The Sorcerer\", \"Pinafore\" and \"Pirates\" and as an afterpiece following \"The Grand Duke\". Before the first of the four performances of \"Trial\", a specially written curtain raiser by William Douglas-Home, called \"Dramatic Licence\", was played by Peter Pratt as Richard D'Oyly Carte, Kenneth Sandford as Gilbert and John Ayldon as Sullivan, in which Gilbert, Sullivan and Carte plan the birth of \"Trial\" in 1875; afterwards, the prime minister, Harold Wilson, and Bridget D'Oyly Carte each gave a short speech. A highlight of the season was a new staging of \"Utopia Limited\" (later given again at the Royal Festival Hall), its first revival by the company. \"The Grand Duke\" was given as a concert performance, with narration by the BBC presenter Richard Baker. Royston Nash, who was at the company's musical helm from 1971 to 1979, conducted most of the performances, with Isidore Godfrey (\"Pinafore\") and Sir Charles Mackerras (\"Pirates\" and \"Mikado\") as guest conductors. Princes Philip and Andrew saw \"The Gondoliers\". In the final performance of \"Trial by Jury\", the regular D'Oyly Carte chorus was augmented by fourteen former stars of the company: Sylvia Cecil, Elsie Griffin, Ivan Menzies, John Dean, Radley Flynn, Elizabeth Nickell-Lean, Ella Halman, Leonard Osborn, Cynthia Morey, Jeffrey Skitch, Alan Barrett, Mary Sansom, Philip Potter and Gillian Humphreys.\n\nIn 1977, during Queen Elizabeth II's Jubilee Year, the company gave a Royal Command Performance of \"Pinafore\" at Windsor Castle. The company visited Denmark in 1970, Rome in 1974, and gave its last American tours in 1976 and 1978. Its last tour, in Australasia, conducted by the company's new musical director, Fraser Goulding, was a success in 1979. Throughout the 20th century, until 1982, the company toured, on average, for 35 weeks per year (in addition to its 13-week London seasons), fostering a \"strong family atmosphere, reinforced by the number of marriages in the company and the fact that so many people stayed with it for so long.\" Principal soprano Valerie Masterson married the company's principal flautist, Andrew March. She explained, \"people didn't have flats or houses ... touring was your life.\" Throughout its history, the company maintained strict moral standards, and it was sometimes referred to as the \"Savoy boarding school\", enforcing policies regarding behaviour on and off stage, and even a dress code. Soprano Cynthia Morey ascribed the strong affection that artists had for the company to \"the unique family atmosphere engendered by the company's direct descent from its creators, Gilbert, Sullivan ... Richard D'Oyly Carte, followed by his widow, Helen, his son Rupert, and finally his granddaughter Bridget.\" The company also preserved, for over a century, what \"The Times\" called a \"unique performance style, which may be summarised as a combination of good taste and good fun\".\nAfter the 1979 tour, the rising costs of mounting year-round professional light opera without any government support, despite some generous private contributions, caused the company to accrue increasing losses. in 1980, the English Arts Council's Music Panel and Touring Committee recommended that the Arts Council make a grant to the company, but this idea was rejected. The company's fans made an effort to raise private funds, but these were insufficient to make up the accelerating losses. In 1981, producer George Walker proposed to film the company performing all of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas but backed out. Bridget D'Oyly Carte was forced to close the company in 1982, after a final London season in which John Reed and Valerie Masterson returned as guest artists. It gave its last performance on 27 February 1982, at the Adelphi Theatre. A three-LP recording of this performance was released, which included songs from all of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas. The company had operated nearly continuously for 107 years since the opening of \"Trial by Jury\" in 1875. Even after it closed, however, the company's productions continued to influence the productions of other companies.\n\nDame Bridget D’Oyly Carte died in 1985, leaving in her will a £1 million legacy to enable the company to be revived. The company secured sponsorship from Sir Michael Bishop, who later became chairman of the board of trustees, the Birmingham City Council and BMI British Midland Airways (of which Bishop is chairman). Richard Condon was appointed the revived company's first general manager, and Bramwell Tovey was its first musical director. In succeeding seasons, the company's productions of \"The Mikado\" and \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" were nominated for Olivier Awards. From 1988 to 2003, the company mounted productions of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas on tour and in London, and it produced several operettas by Offenbach, Lehár and Strauss. Unlike the original company, which had regularly performed up to a dozen operas each year, 48 weeks a year, the new company generally presented only one or two operas in shorter seasons. In the first season, in 1988, the operas played were \"Iolanthe\" and \"The Yeomen of the Guard\", both starring Gillian Knight. The company made its debut at the Sunderland Empire Theatre on 29 April 1988, and, after touring, opened in London at the Cambridge Theatre in July. The press notices were good, particularly about the musical aspects of the new company; opinion was divided about the staging. \"The Observer\" thought the productions \"miles superior to the later work of the old D'Oyly Carte; better designed, better lit ... better played and better sung.\" A review in \"The Guardian\" praised the musical standards, but added, \"Gilbert and Sullivan is as much theatrical as musical entertainment and there remains a lot to be done on the visual side.\"\n\nThe two operas presented in 1989 were \"The Mikado\" and \"The Pirates of Penzance.\" The new company's first three productions were broadly traditional in their staging. The \"Pirates\", however, marked a break with traditional presentations, with the setting a giant toy-box and a collapsible toy boat. In 1990 the company presented campier versions of \"Pinafore\" and \"Trial\" (including a heavily pregnant Angelina) that were much criticised by the old company's fans, who complained that it was a betrayal of the legacy left by Bridget D'Oyly Carte. The next season departed further from earnest presentations in its production of \"The Gondoliers\", which included a deeply corrugated stage floor, \"startling\", \"surreal, primary coloured, starkly angled sets\", gimmicky distracting business and generally staging that was considered \"way over the top\". It \"was unveiled to storms of outraged booing\". Most of the critics shared the public's disapproval of the production. \"The Times\" wrote, \"The satiric point disappears in meretricious ado and humourless humour\". Some critics, however, thought that it was time to sweep away \"bad and lazy\" traditions of the old company, calling the production \"riotous, zany and subversive ... with a Goonish or Pythonesque sense of slapstick comedy\", noting that \"The girls are pretty and the boys are handsome, and they sing and dance with a youthful freshness\". Also in 1991, the company accepted an offer from the Alexandra Theatre, Birmingham, to make its base there, although its pattern of spring national tours and summer London seasons was not affected.\n\nAnother initiative was to stage a foreign operetta for the first time since Richard D'Oyly Carte's day, in what would be D'Oyly Carte's first co-production. The work chosen was \"Orpheus in the Underworld\", which Opera North presented in 1992 and D'Oyly Carte toured in 1993 as part of its 35-week tour celebrating the 150th anniversary of Sullivan's birth. The innovation was welcomed, receiving an Arts Council Grant, and the company later presented \"Die Fledermaus\" (1994), \"La Vie parisienne\" (1995) and \"The Count of Luxembourg\" (1997). Of the Savoy operas, the new company never staged \"The Sorcerer\", \"Patience\", \"Princess Ida\", \"Ruddigore\", \"Utopia\" and \"The Grand Duke\", stating that they lacked box-office potential.\n\nUnlike its predecessor, the new company was not a permanent ensemble with a recognisable style. Some performers appeared in several productions, but each production was cast anew, often with guest stars from British television in leading roles, with varying degrees of success. The chorus and orchestra of the new company were much smaller than those of the old company: the chorus was reduced from 32 (or more) to 20, and the orchestra from 38 generally to 24. For a 1998 production of \"Pirates\" at the Queen's Theatre, the orchestra was even smaller: \"The Guardian\" wrote, \"The goings-on in the pit are dispiriting. Budgetary constraints have forced the company to re-write the score for a band of nine instrumentalists. They play well enough, but every one of Sullivan's parodies loses its clout.\" The company received a modest Arts Council grant in 1997 to keep it afloat and turned to private funding from Raymond Gubbay for London seasons beginning in 1998. Despite the lean forces, the company received generally favourable reviews over the next five years under the management of Ian Martin. Although the new company's productions met with mixed reviews, some of its recordings have been well received. Many of these recordings also restore music that had been cut by Gilbert and Sullivan or the company over the years. Gubbay felt over-committed by 2003 and pulled out. After fifteen years, with no Arts Council funding forthcoming, the company suspended productions in May 2003.\n\nFrom May to July 2013, Scottish Opera produced a British touring production of \"The Pirates of Penzance\" in partnership with the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, although it was not reported what role the latter company took in the producing team. Richard Suart played Major-General Stanley and Nicholas Sharratt played Frederic. \"The Daily Telegraph\", \"The Guardian\" and \"The Times\" each gave the production three out of five stars. The company is co-producing \"The Mikado\" with Scottish Opera on tour in May to July 2016, directed by Martin Lloyd-Evans and starring Suart, Sharatt, Andrew Shore, Rebecca de Pont Davies and Rebecca Bottone.\n\nGilbert and Sullivan aficionados frequently use the names of the principal comedians of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company to refer to time periods of the company's history. Thus, after the sudden death of Sullivan's brother Fred, who had created the role of the Learned Judge in \"Trial by Jury\" in 1875, the unknown George Grossmith was recruited in 1877. Before Grossmith left the company in 1889, he created the principal comic roles in nine of the operas, and so the principal comedian parts in the operas are often referred to as the \"Grossmith\" roles. Other performers who created a long series of roles in the original productions of the operas included baritone Rutland Barrington, mezzo-soprano Jessie Bond, soprano Leonora Braham, contralto Rosina Brandram, tenor Durward Lely and bass-baritone Richard Temple. In the original New York City productions and British touring productions, soprano Geraldine Ulmar, baritone Signor Brocolini, comic George Thorne and bass-baritone Fred Billington became particularly well known.\nAfter Grossmith left the company, the most notable players of his roles during the rest of Gilbert's lifetime were Walter Passmore (principal comedian from 1894 to 1903) and Charles H. Workman, who played the roles on tour with the company from 1897 and took over as principal comedian at the Savoy between 1906 and 1909. Both of these performers made recordings of songs from the Savoy operas. During the Passmore era, principal players of the company included Brandram and Barrington, as well as tenor Robert Evett, soprano Isabel Jay, sopranos Ruth Vincent and Florence St. John, tenor Courtice Pounds and his sister, mezzo-soprano Louie Pounds. During Workman's tenure, principal players included contralto Louie René, soprano Clara Dow, Leo Sheffield, and a young Henry Lytton. No complete recordings of the operas were made that included active members of the Company until the 1920s. Workman and W. S. Gilbert quarrelled over their production of \"Fallen Fairies\" in 1909, and Gilbert banned Workman from appearing in his works in Britain. It is likely that, otherwise, Workman would have continued as principal comedian of the company. Indeed, Rupert D'Oyly Carte wrote to Workman in 1919 asking him to return to the company as principal comedian, but Workman declined.\n\nFrom 1909 to 1934, the principal comedian was Henry Lytton, who had been playing a variety of roles with the company steadily since 1887. He received a knighthood for his performances during his long tenure with the company. Lytton's voice deteriorated during his later career, and when HMV embarked on a series of complete recordings of the operas after World War I, Lytton was not invited to record most of his roles. Instead, the concert singer George Baker was brought in to substitute. Other performers from this period include mezzo-soprano Nellie Briercliffe, bass-baritone Darrell Fancourt, who is estimated to have portrayed the Mikado of Japan more than 3,000 times, contralto Bertha Lewis, tenor Derek Oldham, soprano Elsie Griffin and baritones Leo Sheffield and Sydney Granville.\nLytton was succeeded in 1934 by Martyn Green, who played the principal comic parts until 1951, except for a gap from the end of 1939 to 1946, when Grahame Clifford replaced him. Green's time with the company is remembered for the early Decca recordings of the operas. During Green's tenure, in addition to the long-serving Fancourt, principal players included baritone Richard Walker, soprano Helen Roberts, mezzo-soprano Marjorie Eyre, baritone Leslie Rands and contralto Ella Halman. Green was followed by Peter Pratt. He left the company in 1959, after more than eight years as principal comedian, still only 36 years old. During Pratt's years, principals included bass-baritone Donald Adams, tenor Leonard Osborn (who later directed the productions), contralto Ann Drummond-Grant and mezzo-soprano Joyce Wright.\n\nPratt's successor was John Reed, who served as principal comedian for two decades. Other stars from this era were Thomas Round, Donald Adams, Gillian Knight, Valerie Masterson and Kenneth Sandford, all of whom, except the last, left the company for the wider operatic stage of Covent Garden, Sadler's Wells, English National Opera, Aix-en-Provence and elsewhere. When Reed left the company in 1979, his understudy James Conroy-Ward took over until the closure of the company in 1982.\n\nFrom 1988, the revived company used guest artists for each production. The most regularly seen principal comedians were Eric Roberts and Richard Suart, both of whom regularly perform the \"Grossmith\" roles for other opera companies. Others have included Sam Kelly, Jasper Carrott and Simon Butteriss.\n\nIn 1948, Flanders and Swann wrote a song called \"In the D'Oyly Cart\", a satire of the company and the rote \"business\" and gestures that it was accused of repeating. The song was first performed in the revue \"Oranges and Lemons\" (1948) and revived in \"Penny Plain\" (1951). It was broadcast in 1974 and included as the first track on the 1975 Flanders and Swann album, \"And Then We Wrote\".\n\nA one-act parody, called \"A \"G. & S.\" Cocktail; or, A Mixed Savoy Grill\", written by Lauri Wylie, with music by Herman Finck, premiered on 9 March 1925 at the London Hippodrome as part of the revue \"Better Days\". It was also broadcast by the BBC. It concerned a nightmare experienced by a D'Oyly Carte tenor. The company is mentioned in the 1937 musical \"I'd Rather Be Right\", with a score by Rodgers & Hart and a book by George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart.\n\nThe 1999 film \"Topsy-Turvy\", directed by Mike Leigh, depicts Richard D'Oyly Carte, Gilbert and Sullivan, as well as many members of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company in events leading up to and through the composition and production of \"The Mikado\". The film was ranked on \"Empire magazine\"s 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time.\n\nA children's theatre company in London is called \"Oily Cart\", a play on the name of the company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10135257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10135257", "title": "De Patre Vostro (About Your Father)", "text": "De Patre Vostro (About Your Father)\n\n\"De Patre Vostro (About Your Father)\" is the series finale of the television series \"Rome\". It is the tenth episode of the second season and 22nd overall. It originally aired on March 25, 2007.\n\nAfter losing the Battle of Actium, a vanquished Mark Antony barricades himself with Cleopatra in their palace in Alexandria. The palace becomes a place of endless debauchery as Mark Antony and Cleopatra host orgies while drugging and drinking themselves into a stupor. Octavian sends an emissary to Mark Antony, with a secret message to Lucius Vorenus, offering him amnesty if he will betray Antony and open the palace gates in an attempt to avoid a direct assault on the palace which might lead to a popular uprising. It is made clear that Titus Pullo is aware that Caesarion is his son and that Vorenus also knows this. Mark Antony refuses Octavian's offer of unconditional surrender and challenges Octavian to single combat. Vorenus also refuses to betray Mark Antony. Meanwhile, Mark Antony's physical condition continues to deteriorate along with his mental condition. When he spars with Vorenus, he is easily defeated. When a bystander accidentally laughs, Antony is enraged. He then challenges the bystander, quickly killing him.\n\nOctavian refuses the challenge as barbaric and secretly sends word to Cleopatra offering her the chance to keep the crown of Egypt and save the lives of her children if she gives up Mark Antony. She tricks Mark Antony into believing that she has committed suicide. Vorenus assists in Antony's suicide at his request. Vorenus, shocked to find Cleopatra still alive, tells her that Octavian will keep Mark Antony's children alive as a popular gesture of mercy but will almost certainly kill Caesarion as a potential rival to the rule of Rome; he also reveals his final orders from Mark Antony to escape with Caesarion to keep the boy alive. It is made clear that Cleopatra knows that Caesarion is actually Titus Pullo's son.\n\nUpon meeting Octavian and failing to seduce him as she had Mark Antony, Cleopatra realizes that he wishes to take her kingdom and parade her, alive but in chains, in Rome at his triumph. She commits suicide by clasping an asp to her breast, and as Octavian's soldiers storm her throne room, she dies, telling Octavian with her final breaths, \"You have a rotten soul\".\n\nVorenus has meanwhile escaped the palace with Caesarion and Titus Pullo is charged by Octavian with finding and killing Caesarion. Vorenus and Pullo meet near where they had previously saved Cleopatra's life in the first season and they discuss plans to escape Egypt. At a Roman roadblock they appear to pass until a guard recognizes Caesarion and mocks him. Caesarion responds in anger revealing his true identity and a fight ensues. Although they manage to fight their way out, Vorenus is seriously (perhaps mortally) wounded. He demands that Titus Pullo take him to Rome to die.\n\nIn Rome, Octavian arrives at his mother's house, bringing with him Cleopatra and Mark Antony's twin children, Cleopatra Selene and Alexander Helios who he asks Octavia to take under her care. Atia takes the news of Antony's death with satisfaction, but takes little pleasure in her son's success in at last gaining supreme power; Octavia is disturbed by Atia's mood.\n\nAfter a month-long journey, a badly injured Vorenus and Pullo return to Rome for an emotional reunion at the Collegium. On his sickbed, Vorenus is reconciled with his grieving children. Series creator Bruno Heller later revealed that Vorenus did not die after this scene.\n\nAt the same time, Octavian's triumph is taking place. As Livia and Octavia are about to enter a podium in the Forum, late arrival Atia takes the lead, calling Livia a \"vicious little trollop,\" and says, \"You're swearing now that some day you will destroy me, but remember that far better women than you have sworn to do the same. Go look for them now.\" Atia's look, however, is ambiguous as she watches a triumphal float pass by with the effigies of Mark Anthony and Cleopatra, her lost love and his seducer, as glances are exchanged between Agrippa and Octavia.\n\nA month later, Pullo pays Octavian a visit, lying to him about the fate of Caesarion and is rewarded. He also tells him that Vorenus didn't survive his injuries without giving details on how they were inflicted. Leaving Octavian's palace, he meets Caesarion who begins swearing revenge in his wish to claim his rightful throne as Caesar's heir, \"redeeming my father's name!\"\n\nThe series ends with the pair disappearing into a crowded Roman street as Titus Pullo puts his arm around Caesarion and says \"Listen, about your father...\"\n\n\nThe series finale of \"Rome\" was watched by 2.4 million viewers. Apart from the season premiere, this is the only episode in the second season with known viewership numbers.\n\n"}
{"id": "28044471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28044471", "title": "Eu'Vend", "text": "Eu'Vend\n\nThe trade fair focuses on \n\nEu'Vend is addressed to Operators but also to people searching for a professional solution for employee or customer catering. Including\n\nTill 2001 the interested companies exhibited their products at Anuga Food Fair \n\n. Than the vending industry decided to launch an own platform. At the first Eu'Vend in 2003\n\nKoelnmesse has been granting the innovation award 'Vending Star' since 2007 in conjunction with the German Vending Association (BDV) at Eu'Vend & coffeena Night. The competition aims to optimize the application possibilities and services in the vending field and thus also acts as the instigator for the branch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53829969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53829969", "title": "Everybody's Talking About Jamie", "text": "Everybody's Talking About Jamie\n\nEverybody's Talking About Jamie is a 2017 musical with music by Dan Gillespie Sells and book and lyrics by Tom MacRae. The musical is inspired by the 2011 BBC Three documentary \"Jamie: Drag Queen at 16\".\n\nMiss Hedge, a careers teacher, asks her noisy year eleven class what they want to be when they get older. One student of the class, Jamie New, gets teased about his homosexuality, and reveals to the audience all he wants to be is a drag queen (\"And You Don't Even Know It\"). When prompted, Jamie tells the class he wants to be a performer, but Miss Hedge tells him to get real.\n\nAt Jamie's house, his mum Margaret and family friend Ray are preparing for his sixteenth birthday. When Jamie arrives home, Margaret gives him a card from his dad, with a picture of a race car. Margaret then gives Jamie his gift from her - a pair of red high heels. Jamie reveals hesitation about going outside his garden in the shoes (\"Wall In My Head\").\n\nThe next day at school, Jamie shows his best friend, Pritti, his new heels, before being interrupted by Dean, the school bully. He taunts Pritti for being Muslim, and Jamie for being gay. Jamie taunts Dean for his small penis in return. Embarrassed, Dean leaves. Pritti encourages Jamie to go to prom in a dress (\"Spotlight\"). Jamie then parades around the classroom in his heels (\"Spotlight (Reprise) (Star of the Show)\").\n\nAt his local drag queen attire shop, Victor's Secret, Jamie befriends the owner, Hugo, and learns all about Hugo's drag queen past (\"The Legend of Loco Chanelle (And The Blood Red Dress)\"). Hugo books Jamie's first drag show at the local nightclub, and helps Jamie choose his dress (\"The Legend of Loco Chanelle (And The Blood Red Dress) (Reprise)\").\n\nMeanwhile, Margaret meets up with Jamie's Dad, where she reveals she's been lying to Jamie about the activity of his dad, including the fact she has to write a birthday card from him each birthday. Jamie's Dad tells Margaret he wants nothing to do with Jamie, claiming he's not a 'real boy'. Margaret ponders what her life would be like if she never met Jamie's Dad (\"If I Met Myself Again\").\n\nAt school, Jamie pulls Pritti into a disabled toilet so she can help with his make-up. They are discovered by Miss Hedge, but Pritti tells her that she is doing Jamie's make-up for an art project. Miss Hedge tells Jamie that he should be proud of being an art project, and walks him around school in the make-up. Jamie, initially embarrassed by the attention, decides to be proud of himself, telling the school that he's doing a drag show at the local nightclub, Legs Eleven, that night (\"Work of Art\").\n\nOutside Legs Eleven, Jamie bumps into Dean, who calls him a minger. Inside the club, Margaret and Ray have been introduced to a group of drag queens: Laika Virgin, Tray Sophisticay, and Sandra Bollock. Hugo emerges, now dressed as Loco Chanelle, his drag alter-ego. Jamie runs in and tells them all he can't go on because of what Dean said. Jamie finds the dress he admired at Victor's Secret in his dressing room, with a tag on saying 'Love Dad', as well as a flower delivery from Jamie's Dad. Loco Chanelle, with the help of the other drag queens, encourage Jamie to find his drag self, whom Jamie calls 'Mimi Me', and get him ready and push him onstage (\"Over The Top\")\n\nThe next day, the school is buzzing with news of Jamie's drag debut (\"Everybody's Talking About Jamie\"). Jamie comes into school in bright blue eyeshadow and long eyelashes. Miss Hedge once again tells Jamie to 'get real', and Dean taunts Jamie, but Jamie kisses him in retaliation. Jamie leaves Dean confused.\n\nAt home, Jamie shows Margaret and Ray his new prom dress, fit with working flashing lights. Margaret worries if this is all too much (\"Limited Edition Prom Night Special\"). The phone rings, and Jamie and Margaret are called to the school.\n\nJamie, Margaret and Ray go to the school to meet with Miss Hedge, who tells Jamie that there have been rumours that he will be attending prom in drag, and she will not allow it. Jamie is disappointed, and Dean seems to know all about it.\n\nIn Pritti's bedroom, Jamie rants to Pritti about how he's not allowed to go to prom in drag. Pritti tells Jamie to go in a dress - not in drag. Jamie says that without Mimi Me, he's ugly. Pritti reassures Jamie that he is far from ugly (\"It Means Beautiful\"). Jamie reveals that when he was eight, his dad found him in a dress and was angry. He's then confused as to why he paid for the dress and bought flowers if he's not supportive of him as a drag queen. Pritti suggests Jamie should go to his house and speak to him. Before he leaves, Jamie kisses Pritti on the cheek (\"It Means Beautiful (Reprise)\").\n\nAt Jamie's Dad's house, Jamie's Dad reveals that he didn't know about Mimi Me and calls Jamie disgusting. He tells Jamie he didn't pay for the dress or flowers. Jamie figures out that it was his mother doing all of this in his dad's place (\"Ugly In This Ugly World\").\n\nAt home, Jamie argues with Margaret over why she has been lying over all these years. Jamie screams in Margaret's face and storms out. Margaret, left alone, sings about how she will always love Jamie no matter what (\"He's My Boy\").\n\nJamie wanders the streets drunk on cider. He is approached by three local boys, and is beaten up as they shout homophobic remarks about him. (\"And You Don't Even Know It (Bus Station Reprise)\"). Jamie is defended by Hugo, who urges Jamie to go home and apologise to his mum.\n\nJamie takes Hugo's advice and Margaret and Jamie apologise to each other (\"My Man, Your Boy\").\n\nAt the prom, all of the kids are super excited (\"Prom Song\"). Pritti enters, wearing makeup and a prom dress. All the girls love it, but Dean decides to bully her. She finally stands up to Dean, and then reveals Jamie, in a white prom dress. Miss Hedge comes out of the school and refuses Jamie's admission to the prom. All the kids stand outside and chant Jamie's name until Miss Hedge gives in and lets him in. Jamie waits until everyone's gone in, and then calls Dean out from off-stage. Jamie encourages Dean to be nice just for one night, to which Dean agrees, and they walk into prom hand-in-hand (\"Finale\").\n\nAs an encore, the cast perform \"Out Of The Darkness (A Place Where We Belong)\".\n\nThe musical premiered at the Crucible Theatre, Sheffield on 13 February 2017, following previews from 8 February, it finished its short run on 25 February, directed by Jonathan Butterell. The musical transferred to the West End at the Apollo Theatre from 6 November 2017 with most of the Crucible Theatre cast returning.\n\nThe production was set to be broadcast live in cinemas across the UK on 5 July 2018, and internationally in the autumn. On 30 May 2018, it was announced that Warp Films will produce a movie version of the musical.\n\n\n†The character Leigh in the Sheffield production was renamed Ray for the West End transfer.\n\n\nThe musical received generally positive reviews.\n\nAnn Treneman of \"The Times\" commenting after its West End run had been confirmed exclaimed \"I gave it a very rare five stars. The moment it ended the entire audience rose up as one. I think that it has such an impact for the same reason that \"Dear Evan Hansen\", the musical that just cleaned up the Tony Awards in New York, is such a success.\" Later stating that \"This is hit material and it so deserved a chance to strut its stuff in Shaftesbury Avenue. Now its got it.\" \n\nClare Brennan of \"The Guardian\" stated that \"the drama lacks oomph but sheer exuberance carries this coming-of-age tale...That said, this is still a touching, funny and joyous production.\" Dominic Cavendish, in his four-star review in \"The Daily Telegraph\", stated \"I can’t think of a musical that has set me spinning right round (like a record, baby) quite as much as this funny, outrageous, touching but oh-my-word PC flag-waving show...The show sends you out on a feel-good bubble of happiness. Think about it too much, though, and the bubble gets pricked.\"\n\nMark Shenton of \"The Stage\" thought highly of the show, commenting \"Everybody should soon be talking about \"Everybody's Talking About Jamie\". This new British musical is by turns courageous and outrageous.\"\n\nIn 2017, the musical won the Attitude Culture Award.\n\nA concept album was released in 2017, featuring John McCrea from the Sheffield production. It also included vocals from Sophie Ellis-Bextor, Betty Boo, Dan Gillespie Sells, and Josie Walker.\n\nIn April 2018 The Original Cast Recording featuring all West End cast members and tracks from the musical, became available to purchase in CD format at The Apollo Theatre and online. It became available as a digital download on April 27, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "49417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49417", "title": "Extinction", "text": "Extinction\n\nIn biology, extinction is the termination of an organism or of a group of organisms (taxon), normally a species. The moment of extinction is generally considered to be the death of the last individual of the species, although the capacity to breed and recover may have been lost before this point. Because a species' potential range may be very large, determining this moment is difficult, and is usually done retrospectively. This difficulty leads to phenomena such as Lazarus taxa, where a species presumed extinct abruptly \"reappears\" (typically in the fossil record) after a period of apparent absence.\n\nMore than 99 percent of all species, amounting to over five billion species, that ever lived on Earth are estimated to have died out. Estimates on the number of Earth's current species range from 10 million to 14 million, of which about 1.2 million have been documented and over 86 percent have not yet been described. More recently, in May 2016, scientists reported that 1 trillion species are estimated to be on Earth currently with only one-thousandth of one percent described.\n\nThrough evolution, species arise through the process of speciation—where new varieties of organisms arise and thrive when they are able to find and exploit an ecological niche—and species become extinct when they are no longer able to survive in changing conditions or against superior competition. The relationship between animals and their ecological niches has been firmly established. A typical species becomes extinct within 10 million years of its first appearance, although some species, called living fossils, survive with virtually no morphological change for hundreds of millions of years.\n\nMass extinctions are relatively rare events; however, isolated extinctions are quite common. Only recently have extinctions been recorded and scientists have become alarmed at the current high rate of extinctions. Most species that become extinct are never scientifically documented. Some scientists estimate that up to half of presently existing plant and animal species may become extinct by 2100.\n\nA dagger symbol (†) placed next to the name of a species or other taxon is often done to indicate its status as extinct. \nA species is extinct when the last existing member dies. Extinction therefore becomes a certainty when there are no surviving individuals that can reproduce and create a new generation. A species may become functionally extinct when only a handful of individuals survive, which cannot reproduce due to poor health, age, sparse distribution over a large range, a lack of individuals of both sexes (in sexually reproducing species), or other reasons.\n\nPinpointing the extinction (or pseudoextinction) of a species requires a clear definition of that species. If it is to be declared extinct, the species in question must be uniquely distinguishable from any ancestor or daughter species, and from any other closely related species. Extinction of a species (or replacement by a daughter species) plays a key role in the punctuated equilibrium hypothesis of Stephen Jay Gould and Niles Eldredge.\nIn ecology, \"extinction\" is often used informally to refer to local extinction, in which a species ceases to exist in the chosen area of study, but may still exist elsewhere. This phenomenon is also known as extirpation. Local extinctions may be followed by a replacement of the species taken from other locations; wolf reintroduction is an example of this. Species which are not extinct are termed extant. Those that are extant but threatened by extinction are referred to as threatened or endangered species.\nCurrently an important aspect of extinction is human attempts to preserve critically endangered species. These are reflected by the creation of the conservation status \"extinct in the wild\" (EW). Species listed under this status by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) are not known to have any living specimens in the wild, and are maintained only in zoos or other artificial environments. Some of these species are functionally extinct, as they are no longer part of their natural habitat and it is unlikely the species will ever be restored to the wild. When possible, modern zoological institutions try to maintain a viable population for species preservation and possible future reintroduction to the wild, through use of carefully planned breeding programs.\n\nThe extinction of one species' wild population can have knock-on effects, causing further extinctions. These are also called \"chains of extinction\". This is especially common with extinction of keystone species.\n\nA new study suggests that it could take up to 5 to 7 million years for mammal diversity to be restored to its state prior to the arrival of humans.\n\nExtinction of a parent species where daughter species or subspecies are still extant is called pseudoextinction or phyletic extinction. Effectively, the old taxon vanishes, transformed (anagenesis) into a successor, or split into more than one (cladogenesis).\n\nPseudoextinction is difficult to demonstrate unless one has a strong chain of evidence linking a living species to members of a pre-existing species. For example, it is sometimes claimed that the extinct \"Hyracotherium\", which was an early horse that shares a common ancestor with the modern horse, is pseudoextinct, rather than extinct, because there are several extant species of \"Equus\", including zebra and donkey. However, as fossil species typically leave no genetic material behind, one cannot say whether \"Hyracotherium\" evolved into more modern horse species or merely evolved from a common ancestor with modern horses. Pseudoextinction is much easier to demonstrate for larger taxonomic groups.\n\nThe coelacanth, a fish related to lungfish and tetrapods, was considered to have been extinct since the end of the Cretaceous Period until 1938 when a specimen was found, off the Chalumna River (now Tyolomnqa) on the east coast of South Africa. Museum curator Marjorie Courtenay-Latimer discovered the fish among the catch of a local angler, Captain Hendrick Goosen, on December 23, 1938. A local chemistry professor, JLB Smith, confirmed the fish's importance with a famous cable: \"MOST IMPORTANT PRESERVE SKELETON AND GILLS = FISH DESCRIBED\".\n\nFar more recent possible or presumed extinctions of species which may turn out still to exist include the thylacine, or Tasmanian tiger (\"Thylacinus cynocephalus\"), the last known example of which died in Hobart Zoo in Tasmania in 1936; the Japanese wolf (\"Canis lupus hodophilax\"), last sighted over 100 years ago; the ivory-billed woodpecker (\"Campephilus principalis\"), last sighted for certain in 1944; and the slender-billed curlew (\"Numenius tenuirostris\"), not seen since 2007.\n\nAs long as species have been evolving, species have been going extinct. It is estimated that over 99.9% of all species that ever lived are extinct. The average lifespan of a species is 1–10 million years, although this varies widely between taxa.\nThere are a variety of causes that can contribute directly or indirectly to the extinction of a species or group of species. \"Just as each species is unique\", write Beverly and Stephen C. Stearns, \"so is each extinction ... the causes for each are varied—some subtle and complex, others obvious and simple\". Most simply, any species that cannot survive and reproduce in its environment and cannot move to a new environment where it can do so, dies out and becomes extinct. Extinction of a species may come suddenly when an otherwise healthy species is wiped out completely, as when toxic pollution renders its entire habitat unliveable; or may occur gradually over thousands or millions of years, such as when a species gradually loses out in competition for food to better adapted competitors. Extinction may occur a long time after the events that set it in motion, a phenomenon known as extinction debt.\n\nAssessing the relative importance of genetic factors compared to environmental ones as the causes of extinction has been compared to the debate on nature and nurture. The question of whether more extinctions in the fossil record have been caused by evolution or by catastrophe is a subject of discussion; Mark Newman, the author of \"Modeling Extinction\", argues for a mathematical model that falls between the two positions. By contrast, conservation biology uses the extinction vortex model to classify extinctions by cause. When concerns about human extinction have been raised, for example in Sir Martin Rees' 2003 book \"Our Final Hour\", those concerns lie with the effects of climate change or technological disaster.\n\nCurrently, environmental groups and some governments are concerned with the extinction of species caused by humanity, and they try to prevent further extinctions through a variety of conservation programs. Humans can cause extinction of a species through overharvesting, pollution, habitat destruction, introduction of invasive species (such as new predators and food competitors), overhunting, and other influences. Explosive, unsustainable human population growth is an essential cause of the extinction crisis. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), 784 extinctions have been recorded since the year 1500, the arbitrary date selected to define \"recent\" extinctions, up to the year 2004; with many more likely to have gone unnoticed. Several species have also been listed as extinct since 2004.\n\nIf adaptation increasing population fitness is slower than environmental degradation plus the accumulation of slightly deleterious mutations, then a population will go extinct. Smaller populations have fewer beneficial mutations entering the population each generation, slowing adaptation. It is also easier for slightly deleterious mutations to fix in small populations; the resulting positive feedback loop between small population size and low fitness can cause mutational meltdown.\n\nLimited geographic range is the most important determinant of genus extinction at background rates but becomes increasingly irrelevant as mass extinction arises. Limited geographic range is a cause both of small population size and of greater vulnerability to local environmental catastrophes.\n\nExtinction rates can be affected not just by population size, but by any factor that affects evolvability, including balancing selection, cryptic genetic variation, phenotypic plasticity, and robustness. A diverse or deep gene pool gives a population a higher chance in the short term of surviving an adverse change in conditions. Effects that cause or reward a loss in genetic diversity can increase the chances of extinction of a species. Population bottlenecks can dramatically reduce genetic diversity by severely limiting the number of reproducing individuals and make inbreeding more frequent.\n\nPurebred wild species evolved to a specific ecology can be threatened with extinction through the process of genetic pollution—i.e., uncontrolled hybridization, introgression genetic swamping which leads to homogenization or out-competition from the introduced (or hybrid) species. Endemic populations can face such extinctions when new populations are imported or selectively bred by people, or when habitat modification brings previously isolated species into contact. Extinction is likeliest for rare species coming into contact with more abundant ones; interbreeding can swamp the rarer gene pool and create hybrids, depleting the purebred gene pool (for example, the endangered wild water buffalo is most threatened with extinction by genetic pollution from the abundant domestic water buffalo). Such extinctions are not always apparent from morphological (non-genetic) observations. Some degree of gene flow is a normal evolutionarily process, nevertheless, hybridization (with or without introgression) threatens rare species' existence.\n\nThe gene pool of a species or a population is the variety of genetic information in its living members. A large gene pool (extensive genetic diversity) is associated with robust populations that can survive bouts of intense selection. Meanwhile, low genetic diversity (see inbreeding and population bottlenecks) reduces the range of adaptions possible. Replacing native with alien genes narrows genetic diversity within the original population, thereby increasing the chance of extinction.\n\nHabitat degradation is currently the main anthropogenic cause of species extinctions. The main cause of habitat degradation worldwide is agriculture, with urban sprawl, logging, mining and some fishing practices close behind. The degradation of a species' habitat may alter the fitness landscape to such an extent that the species is no longer able to survive and becomes extinct. This may occur by direct effects, such as the environment becoming toxic, or indirectly, by limiting a species' ability to compete effectively for diminished resources or against new competitor species.\n\nHabitat degradation through toxicity can kill off a species very rapidly, by killing all living members through contamination or sterilizing them. It can also occur over longer periods at lower toxicity levels by affecting life span, reproductive capacity, or competitiveness.\n\nHabitat degradation can also take the form of a physical destruction of niche habitats. The widespread destruction of tropical rainforests and replacement with open pastureland is widely cited as an example of this; elimination of the dense forest eliminated the infrastructure needed by many species to survive. For example, a fern that depends on dense shade for protection from direct sunlight can no longer survive without forest to shelter it. Another example is the destruction of ocean floors by bottom trawling.\n\nDiminished resources or introduction of new competitor species also often accompany habitat degradation. Global warming has allowed some species to expand their range, bringing unwelcome competition to other species that previously occupied that area. Sometimes these new competitors are predators and directly affect prey species, while at other times they may merely outcompete vulnerable species for limited resources. Vital resources including water and food can also be limited during habitat degradation, leading to extinction.\n\nIn the natural course of events, species become extinct for a number of reasons, including but not limited to: extinction of a necessary host, prey or pollinator, inter-species competition, inability to deal with evolving diseases and changing environmental conditions (particularly sudden changes) which can act to introduce novel predators, or to remove prey. Recently in geological time, humans have become an additional cause of extinction (many people would say premature extinction) of some species, either as a new mega-predator or by transporting animals and plants from one part of the world to another. Such introductions have been occurring for thousands of years, sometimes intentionally (e.g. livestock released by sailors on islands as a future source of food) and sometimes accidentally (e.g. rats escaping from boats). In most cases, the introductions are unsuccessful, but when an invasive alien species does become established, the consequences can be catastrophic. Invasive alien species can affect native species directly by eating them, competing with them, and introducing pathogens or parasites that sicken or kill them; or indirectly by destroying or degrading their habitat. Human populations may themselves act as invasive predators. According to the \"overkill hypothesis\", the swift extinction of the megafauna in areas such as Australia (40,000 years before present), North and South America (12,000 years before present), Madagascar, Hawaii (300–1000 CE), and New Zealand (1300–1500 CE), resulted from the sudden introduction of human beings to environments full of animals that had never seen them before, and were therefore completely unadapted to their predation techniques.\n\nCoextinction refers to the loss of a species due to the extinction of another; for example, the extinction of parasitic insects following the loss of their hosts. Coextinction can also occur when a species loses its pollinator, or to predators in a food chain who lose their prey. \"Species coextinction is a manifestation of the interconnectedness of organisms in complex ecosystems ... While coextinction may not be the most important cause of species extinctions, it is certainly an insidious one\". Coextinction is especially common when a keystone species goes extinct.\nModels suggest that coextinction is the most common form of biodiversity loss. There may be a cascade of coextinction across the trophic levels. Such effects are most severe in mutualistic and parasitic relationships. An example of coextinction is the Haast's eagle and the moa: the Haast's eagle was a predator that became extinct because its food source became extinct. The moa were several species of flightless birds that were a food source for the Haast's eagle.\n\nExtinction as a result of climate change has been confirmed by fossil studies. Particularly, the extinction of amphibians during the Carboniferous Rainforest Collapse, 305 million years ago. A 2003 review across 14 biodiversity research centers predicted that, because of climate change, 15–37% of land species would be \"committed to extinction\" by 2050. The ecologically rich areas that would potentially suffer the heaviest losses include the Cape Floristic Region, and the Caribbean Basin. These areas might see a doubling of present carbon dioxide levels and rising temperatures that could eliminate 56,000 plant and 3,700 animal species. Climate change has also been found to be a factor in habitat loss and desertification.\n\nThere have been at least five mass extinctions in the history of life on earth, and four in the last 350 million years in which many species have disappeared in a relatively short period of geological time. A massive eruptive event is considered to be one likely cause of the \"Permian–Triassic extinction event\" about 250 million years ago, which is estimated to have killed 90% of species then existing. There is also evidence to suggest that this event was preceded by another mass extinction, known as Olson's Extinction. The Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event (K-Pg) occurred 66 million years ago, at the end of the Cretaceous period, and is best known for having wiped out non-avian dinosaurs, among many other species.\n\nAccording to a 1998 survey of 400 biologists conducted by New York's American Museum of Natural History, nearly 70% believed that the Earth is currently in the early stages of a human-caused mass extinction, known as the Holocene extinction. In that survey, the same proportion of respondents agreed with the prediction that up to 20% of all living populations could become extinct within 30 years (by 2028). A 2014 special edition of \"Science\" declared there is widespread consensus on the issue of human-driven mass species extinctions.\n\nBiologist E. O. Wilson estimated in 2002 that if current rates of human destruction of the biosphere continue, one-half of all plant and animal species of life on earth will be extinct in 100 years. More significantly, the current rate of global species extinctions is estimated as 100 to 1000 times \"background\" rates (the average extinction rates in the evolutionary time scale of planet Earth), while future rates are likely 10,000 times higher. However, some groups are going extinct much faster. Biologists Paul R. Ehrlich and Stuart Pimm, among others, contend that human population growth and overconsumption are the main drivers of the modern extinction crisis.\n\nFor much of history, the modern understanding of extinction as the end of a species was incompatible with the prevailing worldview. Through the 18th century, much of Western society adhered to the belief that the world was created by God and as such was complete and perfect. This concept reached its heyday in the 1700s with the peak popularity of a theological concept called the Great Chain of Being, in which all life on earth, from the tiniest microorganism to God, is linked in a continuous chain. The extinction of a species was impossible under this model, as it would create gaps or missing links in the chain and destroy the natural order. Thomas Jefferson was a firm supporter of the Great Chain of Being and an opponent of extinction, famously denying the extinction of the wooly mammoth on the grounds that nature never allows a race of animals to become extinct.\n\nA series of fossils were discovered in the late 17th century that appeared unlike any living species. As a result, the scientific community embarked on a voyage of creative rationalization, seeking to understand what had happened to these species within a framework that did not account for total extinction. In October 1686, Robert Hooke presented an impression of a nautilus to the Royal Society that was more than two feet in diameter, and morphologically distinct from any known living species. Hooke theorized that this was simply because the species lived in the deep ocean and no one had discovered them yet. While he contended that it was possible a species could be \"lost\", he thought this highly unlikely. Similarly, in 1695, Thomas Molyneux published an account of enormous antlers found in Ireland that did not belong to any extant taxa in that area. Molyneux reasoned that they came from the North American moose and that the animal had once been common on the British Isles. Rather than suggest that this indicated the possibility of species going extinct, he argued that although organisms could become locally extinct, they could never be entirely lost and would continue to exist in some unknown region of the globe. Using the antlers as evidence for this position, Molyneux described how moose had continued to exist in North America even as they were lost to the British Isles. The antlers were later confirmed to be from the extinct Irish elk \"Megaloceros.\" Hooke and Molyneux's line of thinking was difficult to disprove. When parts of the world had not been thoroughly examined and charted, scientists could not rule out that animals found only in the fossil record were not simply \"hiding\" in unexplored regions of the Earth.\n\nGeorges Cuvier is credited with establishing the modern conception of extinction in a 1796 lecture to the French Institute, though he would spend most of his career trying to convince the wider scientific community of his theory. Cuvier was a well-regarded geologist, lauded for his ability to reconstruct the anatomy of an unknown species from a few fragments of bone. His primary evidence for extinction came from mammoth skulls found in the Paris basin. Cuvier recognized them as distinct from any known living species of elephant, and argued that it was highly unlikely such an enormous animal would go undiscovered. In 1812, Cuvier, along with Alexandre Bronigniart & Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, mapped the strata of the Paris basin. They saw alternating saltwater and freshwater deposits, as well as patterns of the appearance and disappearance of fossils throughout the record. From these patterns, Cuvier inferred historic cycles of catastrophic flooding, extinction, and repopulation of the earth with new species.\n\nCuvier's fossil evidence showed that very different life forms existed in the past than those that exist today, a fact that was accepted by most scientists. The primary debate focused whether this turnover caused by extinction was gradual or abrupt in nature. Cuvier understood extinction to be the result of cataclysmic events that wipe out huge numbers of species, as opposed to the gradual decline of a species over time. His catastrophic view of the nature of extinction garnered him many opponents in the newly emerging school of uniformitarianism.\n\nJean-Baptist Lamarck, a gradualist and colleague of Cuvier, saw the fossils of different life forms as evidence of the mutable character of species. While Lamarck did not deny the possibility of extinction, he believed that it was exceptional and rare and that most of the change in species over time was due to gradual change. Unlike Cuvier, Lamarck was skeptical that catastrophic events of a scale large enough to cause total extinction were possible. In his geological history of the earth titled Hydrogeologie, Lamarck instead argued that the surface of the earth was shaped by gradual erosion and deposition by water, and that species changed over time in response to the changing environment.\n\nCharles Lyell, a noted geologist and founder of uniformitarianism, believed that past processes should be understood using present day processes. Like Lamarck, Lyell acknowledged that extinction could occur, noting the total extinction of the dodo and the extirpation of indigenous horses to the British Isles. He similarly argued against mass extinctions, believing that any extinction must be a gradual process. Lyell also showed that Cuvier's original interpretation of the Parisian strata was incorrect. Instead of the catastrophic floods inferred by Cuvier, Lyell demonstrated that patterns of saltwater and freshwater deposits, like those seen in the Paris basin, could be formed by a slow rise and fall of sea levels.\n\nThe concept of extinction was integral to Charles Darwin’s \"On the Origin of Species\", with less fit lineages disappearing over time. For Darwin, extinction was a constant side effect of competition. Because of the wide reach of \"On the Origin of Species\", it was widely accepted that extinction occurred gradually and evenly (a concept we now refer to as background extinction). It was not until 1982, when David Raup and Jack Sepkoski published their seminal paper on mass extinctions, that Cuvier was vindicated and catastrophic extinction was accepted as an important mechanism. The current understanding of extinction is a synthesis of the cataclysmic extinction events proposed by Cuvier, and the background extinction events proposed by Lyell and Darwin.\n\nExtinction is an important research topic in the field of zoology, and biology in general, and has also become an area of concern outside the scientific community. A number of organizations, such as the Worldwide Fund for Nature, have been created with the goal of preserving species from extinction. Governments have attempted, through enacting laws, to avoid habitat destruction, agricultural over-harvesting, and pollution. While many human-caused extinctions have been accidental, humans have also engaged in the deliberate destruction of some species, such as dangerous viruses, and the total destruction of other problematic species has been suggested. Other species were deliberately driven to extinction, or nearly so, due to poaching or because they were \"undesirable\", or to push for other human agendas. One example was the near extinction of the American bison, which was nearly wiped out by mass hunts sanctioned by the United States government, to force the removal of Native Americans, many of whom relied on the bison for food.\n\nBiologist Bruce Walsh of the University of Arizona states three reasons for scientific interest in the preservation of species: genetic resources, ecosystem stability, and ethics; and today the scientific community \"stress[es] the importance\" of maintaining biodiversity.\n\nIn modern times, commercial and industrial interests often have to contend with the effects of production on plant and animal life. However, some technologies with minimal, or no, proven harmful effects on \"Homo sapiens\" can be devastating to wildlife (for example, DDT). Biogeographer Jared Diamond notes that while big business may label environmental concerns as \"exaggerated\", and often cause \"devastating damage\", some corporations find it in their interest to adopt good conservation practices, and even engage in preservation efforts that surpass those taken by national parks.\n\nGovernments sometimes see the loss of native species as a loss to ecotourism, and can enact laws with severe punishment against the trade in native species in an effort to prevent extinction in the wild. Nature preserves are created by governments as a means to provide continuing habitats to species crowded by human expansion. The 1992 Convention on Biological Diversity has resulted in international Biodiversity Action Plan programmes, which attempt to provide comprehensive guidelines for government biodiversity conservation. Advocacy groups, such as The Wildlands Project and the Alliance for Zero Extinctions, work to educate the public and pressure governments into action.\n\nPeople who live close to nature can be dependent on the survival of all the species in their environment, leaving them highly exposed to extinction risks. However, people prioritize day-to-day survival over species conservation; with human overpopulation in tropical developing countries, there has been enormous pressure on forests due to subsistence agriculture, including slash-and-burn agricultural techniques that can reduce endangered species's habitats.\n\nAntinatalist philosopher David Benatar concludes that any popular concern about non-human species extinction usually arises out of concern about how the loss of a species will impact human wants and needs, that \"we shall live in a world impoverished by the loss of one aspect of faunal diversity, that we shall no longer be able to behold or use that species of animal.\" He notes that typical concerns about possible human extinction, such as the loss of individual members, are not considered in regards to non-human species extinction.\n\n\nThe poliovirus is now confined to small parts of the world due to extermination efforts.\n\n\"Dracunculus medinensis\", a parasitic worm which causes the disease dracunculiasis, is now close to eradication thanks to efforts led by the Carter Center.\n\n\"Treponema pallidum pertenue\", a bacterium which causes the disease yaws, is in the process of being eradicated.\n\nBiologist Olivia Judson has advocated the deliberate extinction of certain disease-carrying mosquito species. In a September 25, 2003 article in \"The New York Times\", she advocated \"specicide\" of thirty mosquito species by introducing a genetic element which can insert itself into another crucial gene, to create recessive \"knockout genes\". She says that the \"Anopheles\" mosquitoes (which spread malaria) and \"Aedes\" mosquitoes (which spread dengue fever, yellow fever, elephantiasis, and other diseases) represent only 30 species; eradicating these would save at least one million human lives per annum, at a cost of reducing the genetic diversity of the family Culicidae by only 1%. She further argues that since species become extinct \"all the time\" the disappearance of a few more will not destroy the ecosystem: \"We're not left with a wasteland every time a species vanishes. Removing one species sometimes causes shifts in the populations of other species—but different need not mean worse.\" In addition, anti-malarial and mosquito control programs offer little realistic hope to the 300 million people in developing nations who will be infected with acute illnesses this year. Although trials are ongoing, she writes that if they fail: \"We should consider the ultimate swatting.\"\n\nBiologist E. O. Wilson has advocated the eradication of several species of mosquito, including malaria vector \"Anopheles gambiae\". Wilson stated, \"I'm talking about a very small number of species that have co-evolved with us and are preying on humans, so it would certainly be acceptable to remove them. I believe it's just common sense.\"\n\nSome, such as Harvard geneticist George M. Church, believe that ongoing technological advances will let us \"bring back to life\" an extinct species by cloning, using DNA from the remains of that species. Proposed targets for cloning include the mammoth, the thylacine, and the Pyrenean ibex. For this to succeed, enough individuals would have to be cloned, from the DNA of different individuals (in the case of sexually reproducing organisms) to create a viable population. Though bioethical and philosophical objections have been raised, the cloning of extinct creatures seems theoretically possible.\n\nIn 2003, scientists tried to clone the extinct Pyrenean ibex (\"C. p. pyrenaica\"). This attempt failed: of the 285 embryos reconstructed, 54 were transferred to 12 mountain goats and mountain goat-domestic goat hybrids, but only two survived the initial two months of gestation before they too died. In 2009, a second attempt was made to clone the Pyrenean ibex: one clone was born alive, but died seven minutes later, due to physical defects in the lungs.\n\n"}
{"id": "42315916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42315916", "title": "Feria de Artesanías de Ponce", "text": "Feria de Artesanías de Ponce\n\nThe Feria de Artesanías de Ponce (English: Ponce Crafts Fair), formally, Feria de Artesanías y Muestra de Arte de Ponce (Ponce Crafts Fair and Arts Expo), is an event that takes place every year in Ponce, Puerto Rico, where artists, craftsmen and artisans showcase their products. The products showcased are traditionally hand-made and in small quantities. The fair centers around crafts that highlight the traditional cultural background of Puerto Rico, including Taino, African, and Spanish traditions. The event started in 1974. The event is said to draw \"thousands of visitors\".\n\nHandcrafts and visual arts have a long cultural history in the city of Ponce. Some of its better known plastic artists are Miguel Pou, Librado Net, and Wichie Torres. Many Ponce Historic Zone homes were detailed by local craftsmen that worked alongside prominent Ponce architects in woodworking, ironworking, and metalworking. The Carnaval de Ponce is synonymous with paper-mache Vejigantes. The Museo de Arte de Ponce is an Island-wide mecca for visual arts and regarded as one of the best in the Western Hemisphere. The Taino culture was strong in the Ponce region with Taino cacique Agueybana originating from this region, and the Tibes Indigenous Ceremonial Park being located in Ponce's Barrio Portugués. Taíno artifacts have also been found in Ponce's Caracoles sector. Ponce was also the Island's stronghold of African culture as African slaves were brought to the Ponce area in large quantities to work the sugar fields during the 19th century sugar cane rush; the only monument to the abolition of slavery in Puerto Rico and the entire Caribbean is located in Ponce. Feria de Artesanias de Ponce started in March 1974.\n\nThe celebration lasts three days and takes place during the month of March, sometimes in April, at Plaza Degetau, in Plaza Las Delicias. It was started in 1974 and has been held continuously since. This fair should not be confused with \"Feria Anual de Artesanías\" which takes place at Plaza del Caribe during the month of October and which started in 2001.\n\nThe fair is sponsored by the Centro Cultural de Ponce Carmen Solá de Pereira and the Ponce Municipal Government. The fair is put together with grants from the Instituto de Cultura Puertorriqueña, Puerto Rico Industrial Development Company, and the Ponce Municipal Government plus donations from businesses and local industry including Destileria Serralles.\n\nThe art expo was an additional feature of the fair and it was added in 1985. Over 150 artisans participate in the entire Fair event. Crafts expositions include those based on wood, clay and ceramics, crystal and glass, leather, bamboo and palms, soap and wax, metal and wire, cloth, and paper. Items such as baskets, musical instruments, dolls, religious figures, paper masks and vejigantes are displayed. The crafts shown are offered for sale.\n\nFollowing is the program for the 2018 Ponce Crafts Fair. The program is typical of other years activities.\n<br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47091587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47091587", "title": "Formula Lites", "text": "Formula Lites\n\nThe Formula Lites series is a single-seater formula racing class launched for 2015. The series is sanctioned by SCCA Pro Racing.\n\nThe High Performance Group and Crawford Composites announced the creation of the Formula Lites Series in 2014. Dane Cameron debuted the car at Virginia International Raceway during the 2014 Ultimate Track Car Challenge.\n\nThe first race of the Formula Lites Series was run at the Thompson Speedway Road Course. Driver Nick Neri won the inaugural event.\n\nThe series saw only six entries at every race during its initial season. The 2016 schedule was announced but no 2016 races have occurred, putting the series on indefinite hiatus.\n\nThe drivers all use the same type of car. Crawford Composites designed and constructed the Crawford FL15. The Crawford FL15 has a carbon fiber monocoque chassis built according to FIA F3 technical regulations. The car is powered by a 2.4 L Honda power plant. The 2.4 L Honda K24 engine will be built by Honda Performance Development. The racing class was announced with the unveiling of the car at the North American Motorsports Expo.\n\n"}
{"id": "9204979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9204979", "title": "Formula Maruti", "text": "Formula Maruti\n\nFormula Maruti is a single-seater, open-wheel class in motorsport made and raced in India. Many of the top teams in Indian motorsports have run in the series, including Team Lakshmi Mills Superspeeds, Team JK, Team MRF, Gabriel Racing, WSRF Racing, McDowell Racing, and Team Valvoline. Top Indian drivers have started their career racing in Formula Maruti, most notably Narain Karthikeyan, Parthiva Sureshwaren, Karun Chandhok and other drivers who have had quite a successful outing in this form are Ajay Kini, Mohit Aryan, Goutham Parekh, Narendhran, Sudarshan Rao, Kartik Shankar.\n\nThe car was a brainchild of S. Karivardhan who wanted an affordable single seater that can be highly economical to run/own, as well as being a stepping stone to several new drivers. It made its debut in 1988 at the Sholavaram races in Chennai. Young drivers in India often begin their competitive careers in Formula Maruti, or after a few years in Karting. Formula Maruti provides drivers with their first insights of a racecar, their first racecar experience, and this is where they cut their teeth in racecar set-up.\n\nThe engine and gearbox are from Maruti 800 car, which is an 800 cc 3-cylinder engine. This series is a regular in the Indian motorsport scene ever since its launch in 1988. The chassis is a spaceframe monocoque with FRP body panels.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19337279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19337279", "title": "Great Recession", "text": "Great Recession\n\nThe Great Recession was a period of general economic decline observed in world markets during the late 2000s and early 2010s. The scale and timing of the recession varied from country to country. The International Monetary Fund concluded that the overall impact was the most severe since the Great Depression in the 1930s. The Great Recession stemmed from collapse of the United States real-estate market, in relation to the financial crisis of 2007 to 2008 and U.S. subprime mortgage crisis of 2007 to 2009, though policies of other nations contributed also. According to the U.S. National Bureau of Economic Research (the official arbiter of U.S. recessions) the US recession began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009, thus extending over 19 months. The Great Recession resulted in the scarcity of valuable assets in the market economy and the collapse of the financial sector (banks) in the world economy. Some banks were bailed out by the U.S. government.\n\nThe recession was not felt equally around the world. Whereas most of the world's developed economies, particularly in North America and Europe, fell into a definitive recession, many of the newer developed economies suffered far less impact, particularly China and India, whose economies grew substantially during this period.\n\nTwo senses of the word \"recession\" exist: one sense referring broadly to \"a period of reduced economic activity\" and ongoing hardship; and the more precise sense used in economics, which is defined operationally, referring specifically to the contraction phase of a business cycle, with two or more consecutive quarters of GDP contraction. Under the academic definition, the recession ended in the United States in June or July 2009.\n\nRobert Kuttner argues, “’The Great Recession,’ is a misnomer. We should stop using it. Recessions are mild dips in the business cycle that are either self-correcting or soon cured by modest fiscal or monetary stimulus. Because of the continuing deflationary trap, it would be more accurate to call this decade's stagnant economy The Lesser Depression or The Great Deflation.\"\n\nThe Great Recession met the IMF criteria for being a global recession only in the single calendar year 2009. That IMF definition requires a \"decline in annual real world GDP percapita \". Despite the fact that quarterly data are being used as recession definition criteria by all G20 members, representing 85% of the world GDP, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has decided—in the absence of a complete data set—not to declare/measure global recessions according to quarterly GDP data. The \"seasonally adjusted PPPweighted real GDP\" for the G20zone, however, is a good indicator for the world GDP, and it was measured to have suffered a direct quarter on quarter decline during the three quarters from Q32008 until Q12009, which more accurately mark when the recession took place at the global level.\n\nAccording to the U.S. National Bureau of Economic Research (the official arbiter of U.S. recessions) the recession began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009, and thus extended over eighteen months.\n\nThe years leading up to the crisis were characterized by an exorbitant rise in asset prices and associated boom in economic demand. Further, the U.S. shadow banking system (i.e., non-depository financial institutions such as investment banks) had grown to rival the depository system yet was not subject to the same regulatory oversight, making it vulnerable to a bank run.\n\nUS mortgage-backed securities, which had risks that were hard to assess, were marketed around the world, as they offered higher yields than U.S. government bonds. Many of these securities were backed by subprime mortgages, which collapsed in value when the U.S. housing bubble burst during 2006 and homeowners began to default on their mortgage payments in large numbers starting in 2007.\n\nThe emergence of sub-prime loan losses in 2007 began the crisis and exposed other risky loans and over-inflated asset prices. With loan losses mounting and the fall of Lehman Brothers on September 15, 2008, a major panic broke out on the inter-bank loan market. There was the equivalent of a bank run on the shadow banking system, resulting in many large and well established investment and commercial banks in the United States and Europe suffering huge losses and even facing bankruptcy, resulting in massive public financial assistance (government bailouts).\n\nThe global recession that followed resulted in a sharp drop in international trade, rising unemployment and slumping commodity prices. Several economists predicted that recovery might not appear until 2011 and that the recession would be the worst since the Great Depression of the 1930s. Economist Paul Krugman once commented on this as seemingly the beginning of \"a second Great Depression\".\n\nGovernments and central banks responded with fiscal and monetary policies to stimulate national economies and reduce financial system risks. The recession has renewed interest in Keynesian economic ideas on how to combat recessionary conditions. Economists advise that the stimulus should be withdrawn as soon as the economies recover enough to \"chart a path to sustainable growth\".\n\nThe distribution of household incomes in the United States has become more unequal during the post-2008 economic recovery. Income inequality in the United States has grown from 2005 to 2012 in more than 2 out of 3 metropolitan areas. Median household wealth fell 35% in the US, from $106,591 to $68,839 between 2005 and 2011.\n\n \n\nThe majority report provided by U.S. Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, composed of six Democratic and four Republican appointees, reported its findings in January 2011. It concluded that \"the crisis was avoidable and was caused by:\n\nThere were two Republican dissenting FCIC reports. One of them, signed by three Republican appointees, concluded that there were multiple causes. In his separate dissent to the majority and minority opinions of the FCIC, Commissioner Peter J. Wallison of the American Enterprise Institute (AEI) primarily blamed U.S. housing policy, including the actions of Fannie & Freddie, for the crisis. He wrote: \"When the bubble began to deflate in mid-2007, the low quality and high risk loans engendered by government policies failed in unprecedented numbers.\"\n\nIn its \"Declaration of the Summit on Financial Markets and the World Economy,\" dated November 15, 2008, leaders of the Group of 20 cited the following causes:\n\nThere are several \"narratives\" attempting to place the causes of the recession into context, with overlapping elements. Five such narratives include:\n\nUnderlying narratives #1-3 is a hypothesis that growing income inequality and wage stagnation encouraged families to increase their household debt to maintain their desired living standard, fueling the bubble. Further, this greater share of income flowing to the top increased the political power of business interests, who used that power to deregulate or limit regulation of the shadow banking system.\n\nNarrative #5 challenges the popular claim that subprime borrowers with shoddy credit caused the crisis by buying homes they couldn't afford. This narrative is supported by new research showing that the biggest growth of mortgage debt during the U.S. housing boom came from those with good credit scores in the middle and top of the credit score distribution—and that these borrowers accounted for a disproportionate share of defaults.\n\n\"The Economist\" wrote in July 2012 that the inflow of investment dollars required to fund the U.S. trade deficit was a major cause of the housing bubble and financial crisis: \"The trade deficit, less than 1% of GDP in the early 1990s, hit 6% in 2006. That deficit was financed by inflows of foreign savings, in particular from East Asia and the Middle East. Much of that money went into dodgy mortgages to buy overvalued houses, and the financial crisis was the result.\"\n\nIn May 2008, NPR explained in their Peabody Award winning program \"The Giant Pool of Money\" that a vast inflow of savings from developing nations flowed into the mortgage market, driving the U.S. housing bubble. This pool of fixed income savings increased from around $35 trillion in 2000 to about $70 trillion by 2008. NPR explained this money came from various sources, \"[b]ut the main headline is that all sorts of poor countries became kind of rich, making things like TVs and selling us oil. China, India, Abu Dhabi, Saudi Arabia made a lot of money and banked it.\"\n\nDescribing the crisis in Europe, Paul Krugman wrote in February 2012 that: \"What we're basically looking at, then, is a balance of payments problem, in which capital flooded south after the creation of the euro, leading to overvaluation in southern Europe.\"\n\nAnother narrative about the origin has been focused on the respective parts played by the public monetary policy (in the US notably) and by the practices of private financial institutions. In the U.S., mortgage funding was unusually decentralised, opaque, and competitive, and it is believed that competition between lenders for revenue and market share contributed to declining underwriting standards and risky lending.\n\nWhile Alan Greenspan's role as Chairman of the Federal Reserve has been widely discussed (the main point of controversy remains the lowering of the Federal funds rate to 1% for more than a year, which, according to Austrian theorists, injected huge amounts of \"easy\" credit-based money into the financial system and created an unsustainable economic boom), there is also the argument that Greenspan's actions in the years 2002–2004 were actually motivated by the need to take the U.S. economy out of the early 2000s recession caused by the bursting of the dot-com bubble—although by doing so he did not help avert the crisis, but only postpone it.\n\nAnother narrative focuses on high levels of private debt in the US economy. USA household debt as a percentage of annual disposable personal income was 127% at the end of 2007, versus 77% in 1990. Faced with increasing mortgage payments as their adjustable rate mortgage payments increased, households began to default in record numbers, rendering mortgage-backed securities worthless. High private debt levels also impact growth by making recessions deeper and the following recovery weaker. Robert Reich claims the amount of debt in the US economy can be traced to economic inequality, assuming that middle-class wages remained stagnant while wealth concentrated at the top, and households \"pull equity from their homes and overload on debt to maintain living standards\".\n\nThe IMF reported in April 2012: \"Household debt soared in the years leading up to the downturn. In advanced economies, during the five years preceding 2007, the ratio of household debt to income rose by an average of 39 percentage points, to 138 percent. In Denmark, Iceland, Ireland, the Netherlands, and Norway, debt peaked at more than 200 percent of household income. A surge in household debt to historic highs also occurred in emerging economies such as Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, and Lithuania. The concurrent boom in both house prices and the stock market meant that household debt relative to assets held broadly stable, which masked households' growing exposure to a sharp fall in asset prices. When house prices declined, ushering in the global financial crisis, many households saw their wealth shrink relative to their debt, and, with less income and more unemployment, found it harder to meet mortgage payments. By the end of 2011, real house prices had fallen from their peak by about 41% in Ireland, 29% in Iceland, 23% in Spain and the United States, and 21% in Denmark. Household defaults, underwater mortgages (where the loan balance exceeds the house value), foreclosures, and fire sales are now endemic to a number of economies. Household deleveraging by paying off debts or defaulting on them has begun in some countries. It has been most pronounced in the United States, where about two-thirds of the debt reduction reflects defaults.\"\n\nThe onset of the economic crisis took most people by surprise. A 2009 paper identifies twelve economists and commentators who, between 2000 and 2006, predicted a recession based on the collapse of the then-booming housing market in the United States: Dean Baker, Wynne Godley, Fred Harrison, Michael Hudson, Eric Janszen, Med Jones Steve Keen, Jakob Brøchner Madsen, Jens Kjaer Sørensen, Kurt Richebächer, Nouriel Roubini, Peter Schiff, and Robert Shiller.\n\nBy 2007, real estate bubbles were still under way in many parts of the world, especially in the United States, France, United Kingdom, Spain, The Netherlands, Australia, United Arab Emirates, New Zealand, Ireland, Poland, South Africa, Greece, Bulgaria, Croatia, Norway, Singapore, South Korea, Sweden, Finland, Argentina, Baltic states, India, Romania, Ukraine, and China. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said in mid-2005 that \"at a minimum, there's a little 'froth' [in the U.S. housing market]...it's hard not to see that there are a lot of local bubbles\".\n\n\"The Economist\", writing at the same time, went further, saying, \"[T]he worldwide rise in house prices is the biggest bubble in history\". Real estate bubbles are (by definition of the word \"bubble\") followed by a price decrease (also known as a \"housing price crash\") that can result in many owners holding negative equity (a mortgage debt higher than the current value of the property).\n\nSeveral analysts, such as Peter Wallison and Edward Pinto of the American Enterprise Institute, have asserted that private lenders were encouraged to relax lending standards by government affordable housing policies. They cite The Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, which initially required that 30 percent or more of Fannie's and Freddie's loan purchases be related to affordable housing. The legislation gave HUD the power to set future requirements. These rose to 42 percent in 1995 and 50 percent in 2000, and by 2008 (under the G.W. Bush Administration) a 56 percent minimum was established. To fulfill the requirements, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac established programs to purchase $5 trillion in affordable housing loans, and encouraged lenders to relax underwriting standards to produce those loans.\n\nThese critics also cite, as inappropriate regulation, \"The National Homeownership Strategy: Partners in the American Dream (\"Strategy\"), which was compiled in 1995 by Henry Cisneros, President Clinton's HUD Secretary. In 2001, the independent research company, Graham Fisher & Company, stated: \"While the underlying initiatives of the [Strategy] were broad in content, the main theme ... was the relaxation of credit standards.\"\n\nThe Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) is also identified as one of the causes of the recession, by some critics. They contend that lenders relaxed lending standards in an effort to meet CRA commitments, and they note that publicly announced CRA loan commitments were massive, totaling $4.5 trillion in the years between 1994 and 2007.\n\nHowever, the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission (FCIC) Democratic majority report concluded that Fannie & Freddie \"were not a primary cause\" of the crisis and that CRA was not a factor in the crisis. Further, since housing bubbles appeared in multiple countries in Europe as well, the FCIC Republican minority dissenting report also concluded that U.S. housing policies were not a robust explanation for a wider global housing bubble. The hypothesis that a primary cause of the crisis was U.S. government housing policy requiring banks to make risky loans has been widely disputed, with Paul Krugman referring to it as \"imaginary history\". \n\nOne of the other challenges with blaming government regulations for essentially forcing banks to make risky loans is the timing. Subprime lending increased from around 10% of mortgage origination historically to about 20% only from 2004-2006, with housing prices peaking in 2006. Blaming affordable housing regulations established in the 1990s for a sudden spike in subprime origination is problematic at best. A more proximate government action to the sudden rise in subprime lending was the SEC relaxing lending standards for the top investment banks during an April 2004 meeting with bank leaders. These banks increased their risk-taking shortly thereafter, significantly increasing their purchases and securitization of lower-quality mortgages, thus encouraging additional subprime and Alt-A lending by mortgage companies. This action by its investment bank competitors also resulted in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac taking on more risk.\n\nSeveral sources have noted the failure of the US government to supervise or even require transparency of the financial instruments known as derivatives. Derivatives such as credit default swaps (CDSs) were unregulated or barely regulated. Michael Lewis noted CDSs enabled speculators to stack bets on the same mortgage securities. This is analogous to allowing many persons to buy insurance on the same house. Speculators that bought CDS protection were betting significant mortgage security defaults would occur, while the sellers (such as AIG) bet they would not. An unlimited amount could be wagered on the same housing-related securities, provided buyers and sellers of the CDS could be found. When massive defaults occurred on underlying mortgage securities, companies like AIG that were selling CDS were unable to perform their side of the obligation and defaulted; U.S. taxpayers paid over $100 billion to global financial institutions to honor AIG obligations, generating considerable outrage.\n\nA 2008 investigative article in the \"Washington Post\" found leading government officials at the time (Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan, Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, and SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt) vehemently opposed any regulation of derivatives. In 1998, Brooksley E. Born, head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, put forth a policy paper asking for feedback from regulators, lobbyists, and legislators on the question of whether derivatives should be reported, sold through a central facility, or whether capital requirements should be required of their buyers. Greenspan, Rubin, and Levitt pressured her to withdraw the paper and Greenspan persuaded Congress to pass a resolution preventing CFTC from regulating derivatives for another six months — when Born's term of office would expire. Ultimately, it was the collapse of a specific kind of derivative, the mortgage-backed security, that triggered the economic crisis of 2008.\n\nPaul Krugman wrote in 2009 that the run on the shadow banking system was the fundamental cause the crisis. \"As the shadow banking system expanded to rival or even surpass conventional banking in importance, politicians and government officials should have realised that they were re-creating the kind of financial vulnerability that made the Great Depression possible – and they should have responded by extending regulations and the financial safety net to cover these new institutions. Influential figures should have proclaimed a simple rule: anything that does what a bank does, anything that has to be rescued in crises the way banks are, should be regulated like a bank.\" He referred to this lack of controls as \"malign neglect\".\n\nDuring 2008, three of the largest U.S. investment banks either went bankrupt (Lehman Brothers) or were sold at fire sale prices to other banks (Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch). The investment banks were not subject to the more stringent regulations applied to depository banks. These failures exacerbated the instability in the global financial system. The remaining two investment banks, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, potentially facing failure, opted to become commercial banks, thereby subjecting themselves to more stringent regulation but receiving access to credit via the Federal Reserve. Further, American International Group (AIG) had insured mortgage-backed and other securities but was not required to maintain sufficient reserves to pay its obligations when debtors defaulted on these securities. AIG was contractually required to post additional collateral with many creditors and counter-parties, touching off controversy when over $100 billion of U.S. taxpayer money was paid out to major global financial institutions on behalf of AIG. While this money was legally owed to the banks by AIG (under agreements made via credit default swaps purchased from AIG by the institutions), a number of Congressmen and media members expressed outrage that taxpayer money was used to bail out banks.\n\nEconomist Gary Gorton wrote in May 2009: \n\nThe Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission reported in January 2011: \n\nThe financial crisis and the recession have been described as a symptom of another, deeper crisis by a number of economists. For example, Ravi Batra argues that growing inequality of financial capitalism produces speculative bubbles that burst and result in depression and major political changes. Feminist economists Ailsa McKay and Margunn Bjørnholt argue that the financial crisis and the response to it revealed a crisis of ideas in mainstream economics and within the economics profession, and call for a reshaping of both the economy, economic theory and the economics profession. They argue that such a reshaping should include new advances within feminist economics and ecological economics that take as their starting point the socially responsible, sensible and accountable subject in creating an economy and economic theories that fully acknowledge care for each other as well as the planet.\n\nThe Great Recession had a significant economic and political impact on the United States. While the recession technically lasted from December 2007-June 2009 (the nominal GDP trough), many important economic variables did not regain pre-recession (November or Q4 2007) levels until 2011-2016. For example, real GDP fell $650 billion (4.3%) and did not recover its $15 trillion pre-recession level until Q3 2011. Household net worth, which reflects the value of both stock markets and housing prices, fell $11.5 trillion (17.3%) and did not regain its pre-recession level of $66.4 trillion until Q3 2012. The number of persons with jobs (total non-farm payrolls) fell 8.6 million (6.2%) and did not regain the pre-recession level of 138.3 million until May 2014. The unemployment rate peaked at 10.0% in October 2009 and did not return to its pre-recession level of 4.7% until May 2016.\n\nA key dynamic slowing the recovery was that both individuals and businesses paid down debts for several years, as opposed to borrowing and spending or investing as had historically been the case. This shift to a private sector surplus drove a sizable government deficit. However, the federal government held spending at about $3.5 trillion from fiscal years 2009-2014 (thereby decreasing it as a percent of GDP), a form of austerity. Then-Fed Chair Ben Bernanke explained during November 2012 several of the economic headwinds that slowed the recovery:\n\nOn the political front, widespread anger at banking bailouts and stimulus measures (begun by President George W. Bush and continued or expanded by President Obama) with few consequences for banking leadership, were a factor in driving the country politically rightward starting in 2010. Examples include the rise of the Tea Party and the loss of Democratic majorities in subsequent elections. President Obama declared the bailout measures started under the Bush administration and continued during his administration as completed and mostly profitable . , bailout funds had been fully recovered by the government, when interest on loans is taken into consideration. A total of $626B was invested, loaned, or granted due to various bailout measures, while $390B had been returned to the Treasury. The Treasury had earned another $323B in interest on bailout loans, resulting in an $87B profit. Some have argued the Great Recession was also an important factor in the rise of populist sentiment that resulted in the election of President Trump in 2016, although his election also had important identity politics elements.\n\nThe crisis in Europe generally progressed from banking system crises to sovereign debt crises, as many countries elected to bail out their banking systems using taxpayer money. Greece was different in that it faced large public debts rather than problems within its banking system. Several countries received bailout packages from the troika (European Commission, European Central Bank, International Monetary Fund), which also implemented a series of emergency measures.\n\nMany European countries embarked on austerity programs, reducing their budget deficits relative to GDP from 2010 to 2011. For example, according to the \"CIA World Factbook\" Greece improved its budget deficit from 10.4% GDP in 2010 to 9.6% in 2011. Iceland, Italy, Ireland, Portugal, France, and Spain also improved their budget deficits from 2010 to 2011 relative to GDP.\n\nHowever, with the exception of Germany, each of these countries had public-debt-to-GDP ratios that increased (i.e., worsened) from 2010 to 2011, as indicated in the chart at right. Greece's public-debt-to-GDP ratio increased from 143% in 2010 to 165% in 2011 to 185% in 2014. This indicates that despite improving budget deficits, GDP growth was not sufficient to support a decline (improvement) in the debt-to-GDP ratio for these countries during this period. Eurostat reported that the debt to GDP ratio for the 17 Euro area countries together was 70.1% in 2008, 79.9% in 2009, 85.3% in 2010, and 87.2% in 2011.\n\nAccording to the \"CIA World Factbook\", from 2010 to 2011, the unemployment rates in Spain, Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal, and the UK increased. France had no significant changes, while in Germany and Iceland the unemployment rate declined. Eurostat reported that Eurozone unemployment reached record levels in September 2012 at 11.6%, up from 10.3% the prior year. Unemployment varied significantly by country.\n\nEconomist Martin Wolf analysed the relationship between cumulative GDP growth from 2008-2012 and total reduction in budget deficits due to austerity policies (see chart at right) in several European countries during April 2012. He concluded that: \"In all, there is no evidence here that large fiscal contractions [budget deficit reductions] bring benefits to confidence and growth that offset the direct effects of the contractions. They bring exactly what one would expect: small contractions bring recessions and big contractions bring depressions.\" Changes in budget balances (deficits or surpluses) explained approximately 53% of the change in GDP, according to the equation derived from the IMF data used in his analysis.\n\nEconomist Paul Krugman analysed the relationship between GDP and reduction in budget deficits for several European countries in April 2012 and concluded that austerity was slowing growth, similar to Martin Wolf. He also wrote: \"... this also implies that 1 euro of austerity yields only about 0.4 euros of reduced deficit, even in the short run. No wonder, then, that the whole austerity enterprise is spiraling into disaster.\"\n\nBritain's decision to leave the European Union in 2016 has been partly attributed to the after-effects of the Great Recession on the country.\n\nPoland and Slovakia are the only two members of the European Union to have avoided a GDP recession during the years affected by the Great Recession. As of December 2009, the Polish economy had not entered recession nor even contracted, while its IMF 2010 GDP growth forecast of 1.9 percent was expected to be upgraded. Analysts have identified several causes for the positive economic development in Poland: Extremely low levels of bank lending and a relatively very small mortgage market; the relatively recent dismantling of EU trade barriers and the resulting surge in demand for Polish goods since 2004; Poland being the recipient of direct EU funding since 2004; lack of over-dependence on a single export sector; a tradition of government fiscal responsibility; a relatively large internal market; the free-floating Polish zloty; low labour costs attracting continued foreign direct investment; economic difficulties at the start of the decade, which prompted austerity measures in advance of the world crisis.\n\nWhile India, Uzbekistan, China, and Iran experienced slowing growth, they did not enter recessions.\n\nSouth Korea narrowly avoided technical recession in the first quarter of 2009. The International Energy Agency stated in mid September that South Korea could be the only large OECD country to avoid recession for the whole of 2009. It was the only developed economy to expand in the first half of 2009.\n\nAustralia avoided a technical recession after experiencing only one quarter of negative growth in the fourth quarter of 2008, with GDP returning to positive in the first quarter of 2009.\n\nThe financial crisis did not affect developing countries to a great extent. Experts see several reasons: Africa was not affected because it is not fully integrated in the world market. Latin America and Asia seemed better prepared, since they have experienced crises before. In Latin America, for example, banking laws and regulations are very stringent. Bruno Wenn of the German DEG suggests that Western countries could learn from these countries when it comes to regulations of financial markets.\n\nIceland fell into an economic depression in 2008 following the collapse of its banking system (\"see 2008–2011 Icelandic financial crisis\"). By mid-2012 Iceland is regarded as one of Europe's recovery success stories largely as a result of a currency devaluation that has effectively reduced wages by 50%--making exports more competitive.\n\nThe following countries had a recession already starting in the first quarter of 2008: Latvia, Ireland, New Zealand, and Sweden.\n\nThe following countries/territories had a recession starting in the second quarter of 2008: Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Italy, Turkey, Germany, United Kingdom, the Eurozone, the European Union, and OECD.\n\nThe following countries/territories had a recession starting in the third quarter of 2008: United States, Spain, and Taiwan.\n\nThe following countries/territories had a recession starting in the fourth quarter of 2008: Switzerland.\n\nSouth Korea \"miraculously\" avoided recession with GDP returning positive at a 0.1% expansion in the first quarter of 2009.\n\nOf the seven largest economies in the world by GDP, only China avoided a recession in 2008. In the year to the third quarter of 2008 China grew by 9%. Until recently Chinese officials considered 8% GDP growth to be required simply to create enough jobs for rural people moving to urban centres. This figure may more accurately be considered to be 5–7% now that the main growth in working population is receding.\n\nUkraine went into technical depression in January 2009 with a GDP growth of −20%, when comparing on a monthly basis with the GDP level in January 2008. Overall the Ukrainian real GDP fell 14.8% when comparing the entire part of 2009 with 2008. When measured quarter-on-quarter by changes of seasonally adjusted real GDP, Ukraine was more precisely in recession/depression throughout the four quarters from Q2-2008 until Q1-2009 (with respective qoq-changes of: -0.1%, -0.5%, -9.3%, -10.3%), and the two quarters from Q3-2012 until Q4-2012 (with respective qoq-changes of: -1.5% and -0.8%).\n\nJapan was in recovery in the middle of the decade 2000s but slipped back into recession and deflation in 2008. The recession in Japan intensified in the fourth quarter of 2008 with a GDP growth of −12.7%, and deepened further in the first quarter of 2009 with a GDP growth of −15.2%.\n\nOn February 26, 2009, an Economic Intelligence Briefing was added to the daily intelligence briefings prepared for the President of the United States. This addition reflects the assessment of U.S. intelligence agencies that the global financial crisis presents a serious threat to international stability.\n\"Business Week\" stated in March 2009 that global political instability is rising fast because of the global financial crisis and is creating new challenges that need managing. The Associated Press reported in March 2009 that: United States \"Director of National Intelligence Dennis Blair has said the economic weakness could lead to political instability in many developing nations.\" Even some developed countries are seeing political instability. NPR reports that David Gordon, a former intelligence officer who now leads research at the Eurasia Group, said: \"Many, if not most, of the big countries out there have room to accommodate economic downturns without having large-scale political instability if we're in a recession of normal length. If you're in a much longer-run downturn, then all bets are off.\"\n\nPolitical scientists have argued that the economic stasis triggered social churning that got expressed through protests on a variety of issues across the developing world. In Brazil, disaffected youth rallied against a minor bus-fare hike; in Turkey, they agitated against the conversion of a park to a mall and in Israel, they protested against high rents in Tel Aviv. In all these cases, the ostensible immediate cause of the protest was amplified by the underlying social suffering induced by the great recession.\n\nIn January 2009, the government leaders of Iceland were forced to call elections two years early after the people of Iceland staged mass protests and clashed with the police because of the government's handling of the economy. Hundreds of thousands protested in France against President Sarkozy's economic policies. Prompted by the financial crisis in Latvia, the opposition and trade unions there organised a rally against the cabinet of premier Ivars Godmanis. The rally gathered some 10–20 thousand people. In the evening the rally turned into a Riot. The crowd moved to the building of the parliament and attempted to force their way into it, but were repelled by the state's police. In late February many Greeks took part in a massive general strike because of the economic situation and they shut down schools, airports, and many other services in Greece. Police and protesters clashed in Lithuania where people protesting the economic conditions were shot with rubber bullets. Communists and others rallied in Moscow to protest the Russian government's economic plans.\n\nIn addition to various levels of unrest in Europe, Asian countries have also seen various degrees of protest. Protests have also occurred in China as demands from the west for exports have been dramatically reduced and unemployment has increased. Beyond these initial protests, the protest movement has grown and continued in 2011. In late 2011, the Occupy Wall Street protest took place in the United States, spawning several offshoots that came to be known as the Occupy movement.\n\nIn 2012 the economic difficulties in Spain increased support for secession movements. In Catalonia, support for the secession movement exceeded. On September 11, a pro-independence march drew a crowd that police estimated at 1.5 million.\n\nThe financial phase of the crisis led to emergency interventions in many national financial systems. As the crisis developed into genuine recession in many major economies, economic stimulus meant to revive economic growth became the most common policy tool. After having implemented rescue plans for the banking system, major developed and emerging countries announced plans to relieve their economies. In particular, economic stimulus plans were announced in China, the United States, and the European Union. In the final quarter of 2008, the financial crisis saw the G-20 group of major economies assume a new significance as a focus of economic and financial crisis management.\n\nThe Federal Reserve, Treasury, and Securities and Exchange Commission took several steps on September 19, 2008 to intervene in the crisis. To stop the potential run on money market mutual funds, the Treasury also announced on September 19, 2008 a new $50 billion program to insure the investments, similar to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) program. Part of the announcements included temporary exceptions to section 23A and 23B (Regulation W), allowing financial groups to more easily share funds within their group. The exceptions would expire on January 30, 2009, unless extended by the Federal Reserve Board.\n\nThe Securities and Exchange Commission announced termination of short-selling of 799 financial stocks, as well as action against naked short selling, as part of its reaction to the mortgage crisis. In May 2013 as the stock market was hitting record highs and the housing and employment markets were improving slightly the prospect of the Federal Reserve beginning to decrease its economic stimulus activities began to enter the projections of investment analysts and affected global markets.\n\nOn September 15, 2008, China cut its interest rate for the first time since 2002. Indonesia reduced its overnight rate, at which commercial banks can borrow overnight funds from the central bank, by two percentage points to 10.25 percent. The Reserve Bank of Australia injected nearly $1.5 billion into the banking system, nearly three times as much as the market's estimated requirement. The Reserve Bank of India added almost $1.32 billion, through a refinance operation, its biggest in at least a month.\n\nOn November 9, 2008, the Chinese economic stimulus program, a RMB¥ 4 trillion ($586 billion) stimulus package, was announced by the central government of the People's Republic of China in its biggest move to stop the global financial crisis from hitting the world's second largest economy. A statement on the government's website said the State Council had approved a plan to invest 4 trillion yuan ($586 billion) in infrastructure and social welfare by the end of 2010. The stimulus package was invested in key areas such as housing, rural infrastructure, transportation, health and education, environment, industry, disaster rebuilding, income-building, tax cuts, and finance.\n\nChina's export driven economy is starting to feel the impact of the economic slowdown in the United States and Europe, and the government has already cut key interest rates three times in less than two months in a bid to spur economic expansion. On November 28, 2008, the Ministry of Finance of the People's Republic of China and the State Administration of Taxation jointly announced a rise in export tax rebate rates on some labour-intensive goods. These additional tax rebates will take place on December 1, 2008.\n\nThe stimulus package was welcomed by world leaders and analysts as larger than expected and a sign that by boosting its own economy, China is helping to stabilise the global economy. News of the announcement of the stimulus package sent markets up across the world. However, Marc Faber claimed that he thought China was still in recession on January 16.\n\nIn Taiwan, the central bank on September 16, 2008, said it would cut its required reserve ratios for the first time in eight years. The central bank added $3.59 billion into the foreign-currency interbank market the same day. Bank of Japan pumped $29.3 billion into the financial system on September 17, 2008, and the Reserve Bank of Australia added $3.45 billion the same day.\n\nIn developing and emerging economies, responses to the global crisis mainly consisted in low-rates monetary policy (Asia and the Middle East mainly) coupled with the depreciation of the currency against the dollar. There were also stimulus plans in some Asian countries, in the Middle East and in Argentina. In Asia, plans generally amounted to 1 to 3% of GDP, with the notable exception of China, which announced a plan accounting for 16% of GDP (6% of GDP per year).\n\nUntil September 2008, European policy measures were limited to a small number of countries (Spain and Italy). In both countries, the measures were dedicated to households (tax rebates) reform of the taxation system to support specific sectors such as housing. The European Commission proposed a €200 billion stimulus plan to be implemented at the European level by the countries. At the beginning of 2009, the UK and Spain completed their initial plans, while Germany announced a new plan.\n\nOn September 29, 2008, the Belgian, Luxembourg and Dutch authorities partially nationalised Fortis. The German government bailed out Hypo Real Estate.\n\nOn October 8, 2008, the British Government announced a bank rescue package of around £500 billion ($850 billion at the time). The plan comprises three parts. The first £200 billion would be made in regard to the banks in liquidity stack. The second part will consist of the state government increasing the capital market within the banks. Along with this, £50 billion will be made available if the banks needed it, finally the government will write off any eligible lending between the British banks with a limit to £250 billion.\n\nIn early December 2008, German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrück indicated a lack of belief in a \"Great Rescue Plan\" and reluctance to spend more money addressing the crisis. In March 2009, The European Union Presidency confirmed that the EU was at the time strongly resisting the US pressure to increase European budget deficits.\n\nFrom 2010, the United Kingdom began a fiscal consolidation program to reduce debt and deficit levels while at the same time stimulating economic recovery. Other European countries also began fiscal consolidation with similar aims.\n\nMost political responses to the economic and financial crisis has been taken, as seen above, by individual nations. Some coordination took place at the European level, but the need to cooperate at the global level has led leaders to activate the G-20 major economies entity. A first summit dedicated to the crisis took place, at the Heads of state level in November 2008 (2008 G-20 Washington summit).\n\nThe G-20 countries met in a summit held on November 2008 in Washington to address the economic crisis. Apart from proposals on international financial regulation, they pledged to take measures to support their economy and to coordinate them, and refused any resort to protectionism.\n\nAnother G-20 summit was held in London on April 2009. Finance ministers and central banks leaders of the G-20 met in Horsham, England, on March to prepare the summit, and pledged to restore global growth as soon as possible. They decided to coordinate their actions and to stimulate demand and employment. They also pledged to fight against all forms of protectionism and to maintain trade and foreign investments. These actions will cost $1.1tn.\n\nThey also committed to maintain the supply of credit by providing more liquidity and recapitalising the banking system, and to implement rapidly the stimulus plans. As for central bankers, they pledged to maintain low-rates policies as long as necessary. Finally, the leaders decided to help emerging and developing countries, through a strengthening of the IMF.\n\nThe IMF stated in September 2010 that the financial crisis would not end without a major decrease in unemployment as hundreds of millions of people were unemployed worldwide. The IMF urged governments to expand social safety nets and to generate job creation even as they are under pressure to cut spending. The IMF also encouraged governments to invest in skills training for the unemployed and even governments of countries, similar to that of Greece, with major debt risk to first focus on long-term economic recovery by creating jobs.\n\nThe Bank of Israel was the first to raise interest rates after the global recession began. It increased rates in August 2009.\n\nOn October 6, 2009, Australia became the first G20 country to raise its main interest rate, with the Reserve Bank of Australia moving rates up from 3.00% to 3.25%.\n\nThe Norges Bank of Norway and the Reserve Bank of India raised interest rates in March 2010.\n\nOn November 2, 2017 the Bank of England raised interest rates for the first time since March 2009 from 0.25% to 0.5% in an attempt to curb inflation.\n\nOn April 17, 2009, the then head of the IMF Dominique Strauss-Kahn said that there was a chance that certain countries may not implement the proper policies to avoid feedback mechanisms that could eventually turn the recession into a depression. \"The free-fall in the global economy may be starting to abate, with a recovery emerging in 2010, but this depends crucially on the right policies being adopted today.\" The IMF pointed out that unlike the Great Depression, this recession was synchronised by global integration of markets. Such synchronized recessions were explained to last longer than typical economic downturns and have slower recoveries.\n\nOlivier Blanchard, IMF Chief Economist, stated that the percentage of workers laid off for long stints has been rising with each downturn for decades but the figures have surged this time. \"Long-term unemployment is alarmingly high: in the United States, half the unemployed have been out of work for over six months, something we have not seen since the Great Depression.\" The IMF also stated that a link between rising inequality within Western economies and deflating demand may exist. The last time that the wealth gap reached such skewed extremes was in 1928–1929.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24099854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24099854", "title": "Independence of Moldova", "text": "Independence of Moldova\n\nThe Independence of Moldova was officially recognized on March 2, 1992, when Moldova gained membership of the United Nations. The nation had declared its independence from the Soviet Union on August 27, 1991, and was a co-founder of the post-Soviet Commonwealth of Independent States. Moldova became fully independent from the Soviet Union that December, and joined the United Nations three months later.\n\nIn the new political conditions created after 1985 by the glasnost policy introduced by Mikhail Gorbachev in 1986 to support perestroika (restructuring), a Democratic Movement of Moldova () was formed, which in 1989 became known as the nationalist Popular Front of Moldova (FPM; ). Along with several other Soviet republics, from 1988 onwards, Moldova started to move towards independence. On August 27, 1989, the FPM organized a mass demonstration in Chişinău, that became known as the Great National Assembly (), which pressured the authorities of the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic to adopt a language law on August 31, 1989, that proclaimed the Moldovan language written in the Latin script to be the state language of the MSSR. Its identity with the Romanian language was also established.\n\nThe first independent elections for the local parliament were held in February and March 1990. Mircea Snegur was elected as speaker of the parliament, and Mircea Druc as prime minister. On June 23, 1990, the parliament adopted the Declaration of Sovereignty of the Soviet Socialist Republic Moldova, which, among other things, stipulated the supremacy of Moldovan laws over those of the Soviet Union. After the failure of the 1991 Soviet coup d'état attempt, on August 27, 1991, Moldova declared its independence. On December 21 of the same year Moldova, along with most of the former Soviet republics, signed the constitutive act that formed the post-Soviet Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). Moldova became fully independent from the Soviet Union on December 25, 1991. The following day the Soviet Union ceased to exist. Declaring itself a neutral state, it did not join the military branch of the CIS. Three months later, on March 2, 1992, the country gained formal recognition as an independent state at the United Nations. In 1994, Moldova became a member of NATO's Partnership for Peace program and also a member of the Council of Europe on June 29, 1995.\n\nThe Declaration of Independence of the Republic of Moldova was a document adopted by the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova following the dissolution of the Soviet Union. The document claims \"millenary history\" and \"uninterrupted statehood\" within historic and ethnic borders.\n\nThe Republic of Moldova gained official recognition of statehood on March 2, 1992, when gaining membership of the United Nations.\n\nThe Moldovan Declaration of Independence clearly and directly claims Moldovan sovereignty over the territory of Transnistria as it is \"a component part of the historical and ethnic territory of our people\". However, the Moldovan Declaration of Independence is itself used as an argument against Moldovan sovereignty over Transnistria as it denounces the agreement of August 23, 1939, between the government of the Soviet Union and the government of Nazi Germany, the only formal mention of the union between the two territories, \"null and void\" .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18543315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18543315", "title": "Indianapolis Early Music", "text": "Indianapolis Early Music\n\nIndianapolis Early Music (IEM) is a non-profit organization established in Indianapolis in 1966 to organize concerts featuring music of the medieval, renaissance, baroque, and early classic eras. Since 1966, it has produced the annual Indianapolis Early Music Festival, the oldest continuous Early Music festival in the United States.\n\nIts annual summer festival spans three weekends and features American and international performers who perform on instruments of the period. Beyond the festival, IEM also presents other Early Music concerts throughout the year while also fostering educational programs in Indianapolis schools.\n\nIndianapolis Early Music, originally known by its corporate name of the Festival Music Society, was founded in 1966 to provide music during the summer months when the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, now one of the few full-year U.S. orchestras, was on vacation. The IEM initially concentrated on the major works of the baroque era, such as Bach, Handel and Vivaldi. The range of music presented was soon expanded to include that of the Renaissance and Medieval periods. \n\nMusic played at IEM concerts is that of works generally composed between 900 AD and 1800 AD. Performances have included vocal music, both choral and solo; instrumental music, both ensemble and solo; and dance, court, folk and ballet. Among the more noteworthy early concerts was the 1977 performance of the cycle of seven Bach Partitas by harpsichordist Igor Kipnis in Indianapolis just before making his Grammy-nominated recordings of them for Angel Records.\n\nIEM has a long association with public radio. Selections of IEM concerts throughout the United States and Canada are broadcast on the program Performance Today. Selections are regularly featured on the WFIU's nationally distributed Early Music program, \"Harmonia\". In addition, IEM has conducted workshops in Early Music and dance, presented a symposium and exposition of historical musical instruments, and sponsored the Collegiate Virtuoso competition. In 2016, it co-presented the International Baroque Competition of Indianapolis with the Indianapolis Baroque Orchestra. Prizes include a $10,000 first prize presented by the Gerber family.\n\nThe position of IEM music director was held by Frank Cooper for 35 years. A former member of the faculty of Butler University, Cooper is currently Research Professor of Music in the Department of Musicology at the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Florida and Associate Curator of Fine Arts at the Vizcaya Museum in Miami, Florida.\n\nIn 2008, IEM appointed Mark Cudek as its Artistic Director following Cooper's retirement. The 2001 recipient of Early Music America's Thomas Binkley Award for outstanding contributions to Early Music education, Cudek is the Director of the Peabody Conservatory's Early Music department at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore. Cudek is a performer specializing in guitar, recorder, crumhorn, bass viol, and percussion. Among the groups he has toured with are Hesperus, Apollo's Fire, Catacoustic Consort, and the Baltimore Consort. Cudek is actively involved in the Peabody Renaissance Ensemble and was creator and Director of the High School Early Music Program at the Interlochen Arts Camp in Michigan. He is the creator of a Masters program at Peabody; instituted a new Baroque Orchestra, and has developed an Early Music program at the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore. Mark Cudek earned a B.F.A. from the University of New York and M.Music from the Peabody Institute.\n"}
{"id": "1804237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1804237", "title": "Kenneth H. Dahlberg", "text": "Kenneth H. Dahlberg\n\nKenneth Harry Dahlberg (June 30, 1917 – October 4, 2011) was an American businessman and highly decorated World War II fighter ace. According to reporter Bob Woodward, a check made out to Dahlberg was a key part in connecting the Watergate scandal to President Richard Nixon's re-election campaign, though Dahlberg himself was not accused of any wrongdoing.\n\nBorn in Saint Paul, Minnesota, Dahlberg grew up on a farm near the village of Wilson, Wisconsin and attended classes in a one-room school for 11 years. During his senior year, he moved back to Saint Paul to live with an aunt in order to graduate from an accredited high school (Harding High School). After graduation in 1935, he worked in the hotel business, starting as a dishwasher and working his way up to food and beverage manager for a hotel chain.\n\nDahlberg was drafted into the army in 1941. He eventually became an aviation cadet in the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF), where one of his instructors was future Senator Barry Goldwater.\n\nAfter training, Dahlberg flew the P-47 Thunderbolt and P-51 Mustang with the USAAF 353rd Fighter Squadron, 354th Fighter Group Ninth Air Force in Europe. A fighter ace, he was credited with 14 aerial victories.\n\nHe was shot down three times. The first time, he bailed out near Paris and was sheltered by the French Resistance. Disguised as a woman, he rode a bicycle to Allied lines away.\n\nHe received numerous awards and decorations, including the Distinguished Service Cross for leading a flight of 16 P-47 Thunderbolts (354th) against an attack of 70 German Messerschmitt Bf 109 fighters on December 19, 1944, during the Battle of the Bulge. Dahlberg accounted for four enemy planes that day, but was himself shot down. He was rescued by Martin Dardis and four other American soldiers. Many years after the war, both Dardis and Dahlberg became key figures in the Watergate scandal.\n\nOn February 14, 1945, Dahlberg was downed for the third and final time, near Bitburg, and became a prisoner of war for the final three months of the war.\n\nContinuing his military service after the war, Dahlberg served with the Minnesota Air National Guard until 1951.\n\nDahlberg went to work for Telex, a company that made hearing aids. In 1948, he founded Dahlberg Electronics, a subsidiary of which is the Miracle-Ear hearing aids manufacturer. By 1959, Miracle-Ear had evolved into a subsidiary of Dahlberg, Inc., with $100 million in annual revenue. A national advertising campaign that Dahlberg, Inc. ran from 1988 until mid-1993 was subject to charges of false advertising by the Federal Trade Commission, which were settled in 1995 when the company agreed to pay a $2.75 million civil penalty. In the summer of 1993, Dahlberg sold his company to Bausch & Lomb for $139 million.\n\nIn 1995, Dahlberg started the venture capital firm Carefree Capital, whose investments include the Buffalo Wild Wings restaurant chain. As of 2010, Dahlberg lived in Carefree, Arizona, and still piloted a Cessna Citation jet.\n\nDuring the Watergate investigation by \"Washington Post\" reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, chronicled in \"All the President's Men\", Bernstein traveled to Miami to see Martin Dardis, the head investigator for Dade County District Attorney Richard E. Gerstein. Since most of the Watergate burglars were from Miami, the district attorney's office had launched an investigation. Dardis showed Bernstein a photostatic copy of a cashier's check for $25,000 that had been deposited into the bank account of a real estate firm owned by Bernard Barker, one of the Watergate burglars. The check was drawn on a Boca Raton, Florida, bank and was made out to Kenneth H. Dahlberg. Bernstein telephoned this information to Woodward who was back at the \"Washington Post\" in Washington, D.C.\n\nWoodward got Dahlberg's telephone number from information and called him at home. At first, Dahlberg did not believe Woodward was actually a reporter. He later called Woodward back and explained that his neighbor, Virginia Piper, had been recently kidnapped, and it was an upsetting experience. Dahlberg told Woodward he had the check made out to himself while he was in Florida on business and did not want to carry that much cash around. Dahlberg could not explain how the check got into Barker's bank account, but said it was given to either the Committee for the Re-Election of the President or Maurice Stans.\n\nDahlberg was the Midwest finance chairman for the Committee to Re-elect the President during President Richard M. Nixon's 1972 campaign. In 1968, he was the finance chairman for Clark MacGregor's unsuccessful Senate campaign in Minnesota. MacGregor was later appointed the head of the Committee to Re-elect the President in 1972, after former attorney general John Mitchell had resigned. \n\nIt was later learned that the $25,000 came from Dwayne Andreas, chief executive officer of Archer Daniels Midland, as an anonymous donation to the Nixon campaign. Woodward has said that finding Dahlberg's check was a turning point in their investigation because it led to the discovery of how the Watergate burglars were financed through a money laundering scheme.\n\nDahlberg was never charged with any wrongdoing in the Watergate scandal.\n\nDahlberg died on October 4, 2011, at his Deephaven, Minnesota home. He was survived by his wife of 64 years, Betty Jayne (née Segerstrom), two daughters, and a son.\n\nIn 1967, Dahlberg was notified by the Department of Defense that he had earned the Distinguished Service Cross in 1945, but it was not presented to him at that time because he was a prisoner of war. Dahlberg also earned the Silver Star, two Distinguished Flying Crosses, two Purple Hearts, 16 Air Medals, and the French Croix de Guerre.\n\nIn 1970, President Richard Nixon appointed Dahlberg to the board of visitors of the U.S. Air Force Academy. He also served as a trustee of Hamline University.\n\nIn 1996, Dahlberg was inducted into the Scandinavian-American Hall of Fame at the Norsk Høstfest in Minot, North Dakota. He was inducted into the Minnesota Aviation Hall of Fame in 1997.\n\nIn July 2007, he was featured in the aviation series \"Dogfights\" on The History Channel, in the final segment of the episode on the P-47 Thunderbolt. In 2009, Dahlberg was inducted into the Arizona Aviation Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2012, the Kenneth H. Dahlberg Memorial to Service was built and constructed at Hamline University, where Dahlberg served as a life trustee and played an integral part in its construction.\n\n  \"Croix de Guerre\" with Palm (France)\n\nThe President of the United States of America, authorized by Act of Congress, July 9, 1918, takes pleasure in presenting the Distinguished Service Cross to Captain (Air Corps) Kenneth H. Dahlberg, United States Army Air Forces, for extraordinary heroism in connection with military operations against an armed enemy while serving as Pilot of a P-47 Fighter Airplane in the 353d Fighter Squadron, 354th Fighter Group, NINTH Air Force, in aerial combat against enemy forces on 19 December 1944, over Germany. On that date, Captain Dahlberg was serving as flight commander during an armed reconnaissance mission near Trier, Germany, when a formation of more than ninety enemy fighters was observed. Despite the enemy's vast numerical superiority, Captain Dahlberg led his eight-ship flight in a direct attack upon the hostile force. Although his wingman was forced to break combat, Captain Dahlberg relentlessly attacked the enemy, destroying four of their aircraft and damaging another. The extraordinary heroism and determination of this officer to destroy the enemy are in keeping with the highest traditions of the military service and reflect great credit upon himself, the 9th Air Force, and the United States Army Air Forces.\n"}
{"id": "37257606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37257606", "title": "La Cruz Blanca", "text": "La Cruz Blanca\n\nLa Cruz Blanca Neutral (\"The Neutral White Cross\") was a volunteer infirmary and relief service established during the Mexican Revolution to care for those wounded in the conflict. The Red Cross refused to treat insurgents and the Neutral White Cross was developed to treat all combatants. After their initial success in Ciudad Juárez, the organisation spread out through 25 states in Mexico for the duration of the war. It continued as a quasi-governmentally subsidised organisation into the 1940s, when it was converted into an organisation to assist children. The organisation is still operating in Mexico City.\n\nLa Cruz Blanca Neutral was a volunteer infirmary and relief service founded by Elena Arizmendi Mejia in 1911. She was enrolled at the School of Nursing of the Santa Rosa Hospital (now the School of Nursing at the University of the Incarnate Word) in San Antonio, Texas when the war broke out. Her school was next door to the Texas residence of her family friend whom she supported, Francisco I. Madero, who challenged Porfirio Díaz for the presidency in 1910, was jailed by Díaz but escaped and fled to Texas. Reports of the war, casualties and the refusal of the Red Cross to treat insurgents, caused Arizmendi to return to Mexico City via train on 17 April 1911. Once there, she arranged a personal meeting with the head of the Red Cross organisation. When the director reiterated that they would not treat revolutionaries, Arizmendi decided to found an organisation that \"would\" treat her countrymen. She and her brother, Carlos, rallied medical students and nurses to the cause.\n\nThey formed an association under the guidelines of the Geneva Conventions and she acted as fundraiser, enlisting the help of celebrities like María Conesa, Virginia Fábregas, and Leopoldo Beristáin. After numerous fundraising events, they had collected sufficient funds for a field hospital and on 11 May 1911, set off for Ciudad Juárez. Arizmendi and Carlos, formed the first brigade with Dr. Ignacio Barrios and Dr. Antonio Márquez and nurses María Avon, Juana Flores Gallardo, Atilana García, Elena de Lange, and Tomasa Villareal. The second brigade, led by Dr. Francisco, left the following day and on the 14th a third brigade, headed by Dr. Lorenzo and ten nurses including Inocenta Díaz, Concepción Ibáñez, Jovita Muñiz, Concepción Sánchez, María Sánchez, Basilia Vélez, María Vélez and Antonia Zorilla, set off for Juárez. Arriving in the city, they found devastation and again Arizmendi had to rally for funds.\n\nUtilising buildings and supplies secured from the rebels at the Hospital de Jesús, Hospital Juárez, and the medical student dormitories and pharmacies, the brigades swiftly set to work. American medics from nearby El Paso, Texas formed the \"Hospital Insurrecto\" (Insurgent's Hospital) near the border. The devastation of the city and so many wounded strained the supplies and Arizmendi again rallied for funding.\n\nA homeopathic doctor, Laglera, established Hospital Libertad (Liberty Hospital) to deal with wounded and typhus patients. He was assisted by nurses Rebeca Guillén, and the Vélez sisters and Zorilla who had come in the 3rd brigade. Nurses Rhoda Miller,\nFrancés M. Readi, Teodora J. Velarde and Tomasa Villareal from the first brigade formed the surgical nurse team. There were twenty nurses assigned to work in the City of Juarez: María Avon, Inocenta Díaz, Juana Flores Gallardo, Atilana García, Rebeca Guillén, Concepción Ibáñez, Elena de Lange, Rhoda Miller, Jovita Muñiz, Telésfora Pérez, Francés M. Readi, Amelia Rodríguez, Concepción\nSánchez, María Sánchez, Teodora J. Velarde, Basilia Vélez, María Vélez, Loreto Vélez, Tomasa Villarreal y Antonia Zorilla. In the 11th and 4th infirmary, at the Insurgent's Hospital were Tomasita F. de Aguirre, Esther Concha, Josefina Espalin, Guadalupe G. Vda. de Gameros, María Gaskey, Libradita Leyva, Bernardina S. de Leyva, Máxima de Martínez, Juanita Nápoles, Anita L. Robert and Adela Vásquez\nSchiaffino, who was a journalist.\n\nThe brigade traveling with Madero included Manuel Realivásquez, Juan Anaya, Silvano N. Córdova, José María Delgado, and Dick Brown. Finally the nurses who made rounds for those who refused to go to hospitals included Guadalupe G. Vda. de Gameros, Señora Salazar de Harry, Laura Nájera de Morgan y Belem G. de Realivásquez.\n\nOn 7 June 1911 a massive earthquake struck Mexico and the members of the White Cross rushed to the epicenter in Iguala, Guerrero to offer assistance. By the end of 1911, the Neutral White Cross had established 25 brigades across Mexico. Arzimendi was elected as the first woman partner of the Sociedad Mexicana de Geografía y Estadística, but she rejected the honour. She did accept a gold medal presented to her for dedication with helping the wounded by the \"Gran Liga Obrera\" (Grand League of Obrera). Ironically, in 1912, the Swiss Confederation of the International Red Cross presented Silver Medals to the nurses who had served in Chihuahua, Guerrero and Morelos with the White Cross. In 1913, factionalism between male doctors who did not want to follow orders from a woman, split those supporting Arizmendi and those supporting Dr. Marquez into opposing camps. Arizmendi consulted a young attorney, José Vasconcelos, who would later become Mexico's Secretary of Education. Arizmendi withdrew and moved to New York City.\nA later brigade was founded by Leonor Villegas de Magnón in 1913 that aided soldiers along both sides of the Texas-Mexican border near Laredo, Texas. A close-knit group of women and American doctors who helped the wounded during fighting, treated the wounded in Magnón's home, which had already been a makeshift kindergarten classroom. Magnón considered the preservation of Latino history important, and therefore had a \"semi-official\" photographer for Cruz Blanca, Esuebio Montoya. She made it understood that selling negatives or pictures was out of the question. In further strides to preserve the history of Cruz Blanca, Magnón wrote \"The Rebel\", a third-person memoir and account of the activities of Cruz Blanca. Unfortunately her manuscript was not published in her lifetime for many reasons, one of them including unconventional gender roles. It was not until 1994 when Arte Publico Press would pick up the manuscript from her granddaughter.\n\nIn 1948, Arizmendi changed the direction of the White Cross, due to governmental indifference. Since 1942, the only funding had come from the benefactor, Rodolfo Brito Fourcher. The White Cross, still exists in Coyoacán one of the neighborhoods of Mexico City. The institution is dedicated to the care and rehabilitation of children with severe malnutrition problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "26755479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26755479", "title": "List of modern conflicts in the Middle East", "text": "List of modern conflicts in the Middle East\n\nThis is a list of modern conflicts in the Middle East ensuing in the geographic and political region known as the Middle East. The \"Middle East\" is traditionally defined as the Fertile Crescent (Mesopotamia), Levant, and Egypt and neighboring areas of Arabia, Anatolia and Iran. It currently encompasses the area from Egypt, Turkey and Cyprus in the west to Iran and the Persian Gulf in the east, and from Turkey and Iran in the north, to Yemen and Oman in the south.\n\n[a].Unification of Saudi Arabia (combined casualties 7,989–8,989+)\n\n[p].Middle Eastern theatre of World War I (combined casualty figure 2,825,000–5,000,000) of:\n\n[b].Turkish War of Independence (combined figure 170,500–873,000+):\n\n[c].Iraqi–Kurdish conflict (combined casualty figure 138,800-320,100) of:\n\n[d].Middle Eastern theatre of World War II (combined casualty figure 12,338-14,898+) of:\n\n[e].Iran crisis of 1946 (combined casualty figure 1,921+):\n\n[f].Arab–Israeli conflict (combined casualty figure 76,338–87,338+):\n\n[g].North Yemen Civil War (combined 100,000–200,000 casualties):\n\n[h].Lebanese Civil War (combined 39,132–43,970+ mortal casualties):\n\n[i].Consolidation of the Iranian Revolution (combined fatalities count 12,000):\n\n[j].Iran–Iraq War (combined death count 645,000–823,000+):\n\n[k].Iraq War (combined casualty figure of 192,361–226,056+):\n\n[l].Sectarian conflict in Mandatory Palestine (combined casualties 7,813)\n\n[m].Egyptian Crisis (combined casualties 5,000+)\n\n[n].Syrian Civil War (combined casualties 270,000–450,000)\n\n[o].Iran–Israel proxy conflict (combined casualties ~2,000)\n\n"}
{"id": "1166071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1166071", "title": "Little Tramp", "text": "Little Tramp\n\nLittle Tramp is a musical with a book by David Pomeranz and Steven David Horwich and music and lyrics by David Pomeranz.\n\nBased on the life of comedian Charles Chaplin and named after his most famous character, it opens at the 1971 Academy Awards ceremony at which the aging star, long exiled from the United States, is about to receive a Lifetime Achievement Award. The trajectory of the impressive professional career and turbulent private life that leads to this moment is traced via flashbacks in which Chaplin recalls his introduction to Hollywood and silent movies, his failed marriages and problems with the press, his dealings with the FBI, and the creation of his most beloved character, the iconic Little Tramp. \nIn 1992, in order to create interest in a staged production, Pomeranz gathered together what he referred to as his \"dream cast\" and recorded a CD of the score. Artists participating in the project included Petula Clark, Lea Salonga, Tim Curry, Mel Brooks, Treat Williams, and Peter Duncan as Chaplin. It was released on the Warner Music UK Ltd. label.\n\n\"Little Tramp\" received its first staging in 1995 at the prestigious Eugene O'Neill Theater Festival in Waterford, Connecticut (Eugene O'Neill having been the father of Chaplin's wife, Oona O'Neill). The following year, a concert version was presented in St. Petersburg, Russia to inaugurate the world's first East/West Musical Theater Conference.\n\nThe show was first performed in the UK by Imagine Productions in Preston, and was endorsed by Richard Attenborough, director of the biopic \"Chaplin\".\n\nAt the 1971 Academy Awards ceremony in Los Angeles, an 82-year-old Charlie Chaplin is about to receive a special Life Achievement award. 20 years earlier, Charlie had been barred from re-entry into the United States on the grounds that he was a Communist (\"In America Again\").\n\nCharlie looks back at his life. His mother, a failed music hall performer, trying to make ends meet to support little Charlie and his older brother Sydney, reminds her sons that they have something more than mere material possessions (\"Something No One Can Ever Take Away\").\n\nNot able to support her children, Hanna Chaplin is taken to the workhouse. The boys try selling their old clothing on the streets but there are no takers. Hungry and heartbroken, Sydney tries to cheer things up (\"When the World Stops Turning\") while the Charlie of 1971 rejoins them.\n\nWhen Sydney joined the Navy, Charlie is left to fend for himself. Determined to help his mother, Charlie joined a dance troupe called \"The Eight Lancashire Lads\", but his mother's condition worsens and she is placed in an insane asylum. Dodging truant officers, Charlie sees a sign, \"Blackmore's Theatrical Agency\" and barges into the agent's office (\"Number One\").\n\nNow grown up and a consummate English Stage comedian, Charlie is discovered by filmmaker Mack Sennett and signed to a contract at Keystone Studios in California. Sennett's style of \"pie in the face\" comedy is different from Chaplin's slower, more deliberate style, and when Charlie tries to assert his ideas, Sennett gives him some strong advice (\"Less It Ends With a Chase\").\n\nCharlie is relentless. Sennett finally throws up his hands in frustration and gives Charlie a chance (\"The Tramp\"/\"He's Got to be Someone\").\n\nCharlie becomes an overnight sensation. Film distributors, fans and theater owners can't get enough of him (\"Chaplin Films\").\n\nCharlie opens his own picture studio and he becomes one of the most beloved public figures. One evening, he is visited by a local chapter of Chaplin Fan Club (\"Thank You\").\n\nBy this time, Sydney returns as Charlie's personal manager. Getting ready for a swank Hollywood party, Sydney reminisces how far they've come (\"Heaven\").\n\nBack to 1971, Charlie's wife, Oona is instructed by the show's assistant director on how Charlie should play to the camera. Furthermore, a government official then warns her that Charlie should avoid making any political comments. Oona is incensed (\"He's Got to be Someone (Reprise)\").\n\nThe story returns to the 1920s. Charlie's career and personal life are at a low point. His mother just died, and he just underwent two bitter divorces. He is overworked, reporters are on to him and to make things worse, talking pictures are threatening his artistic survival (\"Too Many Words\").\n\nNonetheless his success continued, and Charlie revisits England to attend a Royal Premiere of \"City Lights\". He wanders through his old neighborhood and is stunned that injustice and poverty still exists. In an effort to improve such degenerate conditions, he decides to speak out on behalf of the Russian War Relief. He contends that it's no concern whether or not these people are Communist, they're being slaughtered by the Nazis. After one of his speeches, FBI agent Tippy Gray takes notes and reports his finding to Bureau Chief J. Edgar Hoover (\"I Got Me a Red\"/\"There's Got to be a Law\").\n\nA paternity suit is filed against Chaplin, giving Hoover ammunition he needed. Although a blood test disproves the allegation, the press crucifies him. His fans turn on him and his films are boycotted. Charlie is dejected. He is convinced that it is just a matter of time before his new wife Oona leaves him too. However. Oona assures him that she won't (\"This is What I Dreamed\").\n\nThe Chaplins decided to cruise Europe, but aboard the ship, Charlie receives a cable from Washington stating that in order to re-enter the U.S., he must answer to political and moral charges. Crestfallen, Charlie decided to spend the next 20 years living in Veney, Switzerland.\n\nBack to 1971, Charlie is escorted to the stage while deeply regarding what he will tell his audience (\"Finale\").\n\nCast\n\nCast\n\nCharlie Chaplin (age 82) - Richard Harris\n\nHannah Chaplin - Petula Clark\n\nCharlie Chaplin (middle years) - Peter Duncan\n\nMack Sennett - Mel Brooks\n\nOona Chaplin - Lea Salonga\n\nSydney Chaplin - Johnny Logan\n\nTippy Gray - Tim Curry\n\nJ. Edgar Hoover - Treat Williams\n\nFan Club President - David Pomeranz\n\nMr. Blackmore - Mel Smith\n\nCharlie Chaplin (age 9) - Leonard Kirby\n\nSydney Chaplin (age 12) - Jonathan Rudoe\n\nMrs. Henley - Jacquie Toye\n"}
{"id": "42299382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42299382", "title": "Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 unofficial disappearance theories", "text": "Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 unofficial disappearance theories\n\nMalaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared on 8 March 2014, after departing from Kuala Lumpur for Beijing, with 227 passengers and 12 crew members on board. Malaysia's former Prime Minister, Najib Razak, has stated that the aircraft's flight ended somewhere in the Indian Ocean, but no further explanation has been given. Official announcements have been questioned by many critics, and several theories about the disappearance have been proposed. Some of these have been described as conspiracy theories. The incident remains under investigation.\n\nVictims' relatives have questioned the veracity of the Malaysian government's statements about the demise of the aircraft, and organized a protest at the Malaysian embassy in Beijing with the goal of forcing the Malaysian government to reveal any withheld information about Flight 370's whereabouts.\n\nRob Brotherton, a lecturer in psychology at Goldsmiths, University of London, wrote that conspiracy theories emerge immediately after any catastrophe occurs and conclusive information about why they do so remains unavailable. Andrew Leonard wrote that conspiracy theorists were bolstered by the revelation of new satellite data two weeks after the flight disappeared that had been hidden from the public.\n\nOther factors involve the lack of a distress signal from the plane. According to Barbara Demick of the \"Los Angeles Times\", critics of the Malaysian government's statements also found support in the Joint Agency Coordination Centre's announcement on 29 May 2014 that the plane was not in the search area authorities had been combing since April 2014.\n\nConspiracy-focused internet sites claim that the official statement that the plane crashed into the Indian Ocean makes no sense. They note that a Boeing 777 does not have the structural integrity to survive crashing into the ocean, and that it would be comparable to hitting a concrete wall at terminal velocity. If Flight 370 hit the ocean, they say, it would have been broken into tens of thousands of pieces, many of which float on water (such as the seat cushions) and would be seen washing up on regional shores or easily spotted by search teams.\n\nHarvard professor Cass Sunstein noted that the conflicting information initially released by the Malaysian government explains the interest in alternative theories. Sunstein, who has written on the topic, argued in an interview with the \"Wall Street Journal\" on 20 March 2014 that conspiracy theories in general often are borne out of horrific and disastrous situations, because such events make people angry, fearful and looking for a \"target\".\n\nDavid Soucie, a former FAA inspector, has said that the theories that have been put forth in this matter are important when there is a lack of knowledge, as the theories and notions help us to consider various possibilities. On 26 March 2014, he stated on CNN: In an accident investigation, it's a critical part to come up with theories. Especially right now when we don't have anything. We don't have anything tangible. We don't have something to say, hey, yes – because we don't know where that airplane is and we need to find out why. If you take one theory, the airplane would be where we're looking at right now. If you take another theory, where there was nefarious intent, they're trying to avoid radars, the airplane could be somewhere else. If you say it was – whatever it is, you've got to use these theories, weigh them against the facts so you know which one to go to.\n\nTim Black, deputy editor of \"Spiked\", wrote:  \"...it's in this darkness, this near absence of knowledge [about MH370], that speculation has flourished,\" and an editorial in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", not only stated that \"conspiracy theories fill a vacuum when facts are scarce,\" but also urged governments to search for the plane to debunk these theories and give victims' family members peace of mind.\n\nThe common hypothesis, cited also here, that MH370 avoided Indonesian radar is based only on a statement that the plane was not observed by Indonesia. It is easy for radar observers to visually miss an unexpected object.\n\nThe possibility of a simple hijacking has been brought up by various news outlets, including ABC News and the \"Los Angeles Times\". Speculation has mounted about the possibility that hijackers took the plane to a remote island, although no group has claimed responsibility; however, unofficial researchers have identified more than 600 possible runways at which the plane was capable of landing. No confirmation has been received from Malaysian officials. The credibility of several hijacking theories have become further marginalized following the discovery of the first definitive fragments of MH370 wreckage in July 2015.\n\nAt the end of 2017, French air traffic specialists Jean-Marc Garot, Michel Delarche and Jean-Luc Marchand launched a website with their hypothesis concerning a possible hijacking, with a subsequent location of the aircraft (following an emergency ditching due to fuel exhaustion) estimated at around , in the Indian Ocean near the Christmas Island. However, the final report from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), released in 2017, examined the possibility of controlled glide/ditching and found it very unlikely. Also their hypothesis concerning a location of the crashed plane different from the searched locations is not the only one that exists.\n\nElectronic hijacking uses systems and programming already factory-installed within the B777 flight management system. This is different from hacking or cyber-attack in that it requires access to the B777's security system through access purposefully programmed into the software. Notable proponents of this theory include current Malaysian prime minister Mahathir Mohamad. He said: \"Clearly Boeing and certain agencies have the capacity to take over uninterruptible control of commercial airliners of which MH370 B777 is one\". In this statement he was referring to off-board hijackers with access to MH370's Flight Management System via the 2003 patented Uninterruptible Autopilot.\n\nTechnology writer Jeff Wise has developed a theory in which the aircraft's controls were taken over by hijackers from the electronics and equipment bay, accessible through a hatch in the first-class cabin floor. Wise theorizes that the Inmarsat satellite pings were a deliberately laid false trail created by feeding the plane's satellite communications system false data which in turn caused the system to make false frequency corrections. These would, when later scrutinized, lead investigators to conclude the plane was headed south, when according to Wise's theory it actually flew north and possibly landed at Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.\n\nShortly after the aircraft disappeared, some news agencies reported that it may have been an act of terrorism, possibly a Jihad attack.\nBetween 9 and 14 March 2014, media mogul Rupert Murdoch tweeted that Flight 370's disappearance \"confirms jihadists turning to make trouble for China .\" He later suggested the flight might have been hidden in northern Pakistan, \"like Bin Laden\". These remarks have not been confirmed, and were characterized as conspiracy theories by Shiv Malik in \"The Guardian\". The following month, the Russian newspaper \"Moskovskij Komsomolets\" endorsed a similar theory, claiming that \"unknown terrorists\" had hijacked the plane, flown it to Afghanistan, and then held the crew and passengers hostage.\n\nA story circulated on Reddit that MH370 had sufficient fuel to be hijacked to North Korea as was done in 1969 with a Korean Air Lines YS-11.\n\nIn late July 2015, in an article about MH370 \"conspiracy theories\", \"The Independent\" briefly mentioned that it had received an email claiming the U.S. had authorized the plane to be shot down because it was allegedly carrying a nuclear warhead to North Korea, though \"The Independent\" immediately added the joke \"Or it could still be aliens.\"\n\nA variety of social media posts and email chain letters claim that a patent (#8671381) was approved days after the disappearance of the MH370, and the right to the patent was split five ways – 20% to Freescale Semiconductor and 20% each to four employees, all of whom were passengers on the plane. The patent deals with fabrication of integrated circuits on a semiconductor wafer. The urban myth website snopes.com suggests that there is no evidence that the four inventors listed on the patent application were on the aircraft passenger list, nor that they were entitled to a 20% share of the patent, and it says it is unlikely that their share would revert to Freescale on their death as presented in the email.\n\nRetired Delta Air Lines Captain Field McConnell claimed that the aircraft was seized to obtain stealth knowledge of classified patents from 22 Chinese employees of Austin-based Freescale. McConnell also claimed that the company has developed a classified technology that uses paint and electronics to enable traditional aircraft to be overhauled into stealthy jets.\n\nConspiracy theorists have suggested that MH370 was either captured by the United States and then flown to the United States' military base on the atoll of Diego Garcia in the B.I.O.T. or that the plane landed at the base directly. The latter theory was raised at a White House daily briefing on 18 March, whereupon press secretary Jay Carney responded, \"I'll rule that one out.\" Underpinning the Diego Garcia theory were several elements, one of which was the co-pilot's mobile phone contact and the plane's westward turn, both of which were consistent with a flight path toward the island.\n\nIn that vein, it was reported by the \"Daily Mirror\", without giving a concrete source, that the captain had trained in landing on an Indian Ocean island with a short runway, using a flight simulator in his home computer. Several mass media sources reported that the captain had trained using his aviasimulator to land on five runways (at least 1,000 meters long) in the Indian Ocean region, namely Diego Garcia and Male International Airport (MLE) and other airstrips in India and Sri Lanka.\n\nThese allegations were disputed by the FBI, which reported that after analysing the impounded flight simulator, it had found \"nothing suspicious whatsoever\" and said that the \"Mirror\"s reports about the simulator's contents were \"unsubstantiated and unsourced\". Giving a new twist to the MH370 missing story, a former French airline boss has claimed that the Malaysia Airlines flight was shot down by the U.S. military near their base on Diego Garcia.\n\nIn an article published on March 18, 2014, journalists Farah Ahmed and Ahmed Naif of the Maldivian Newspaper Haveeru wrote: \"...several residents of Kuda Huvadhoo told Haveeru on Tuesday that they saw a 'low flying jumbo jet' at around 06:15 on March 8. They said that it was a white aircraft, with red stripes across it – which is what the Malaysia Airlines flights typically look like. Eyewitnesses from the Kuda Huvadhoo concurred that the jet was travelling North to South-East, towards the Southern tip of the Maldives – Addu. They also noted the incredibly loud noise that the flight made when it flew over the island. 'I've never seen a jet flying so low over our island before. We've seen seaplanes, but I'm sure that this was not one of those. I could even make out the doors on the plane clearly.' said an eyewitness. 'It's not just me either, several other residents have reported seeing the exact same thing. Some people got out of their houses to see what was causing the tremendous noise too.' Mohamed Zaheem, the Island Councilor of Kuda Huvadhoo, said that the residents of the island had spoken about the incident.\"\n\nThe discovery in late July 2015 of debris from a Boeing 777, on a beach in the island of La Réunion, east of Madagascar, suspected (and later confirmed) to be from MH370, quickly led to renewed Internet speculation that the plane had been shot down near Diego Garcia (which is 1,475 miles away from La Réunion) out of fears of a terrorist attack, although oceanographers such as Professor Charitha Pattiaratchi, from the University of Western Australia, said that \"the arrival of MH370 debris in Réunion would conform to the expected path of ocean currents from the point in its flight path where it was believed to have crashed\". Many people, including some of those who believed the plane had landed safely on Diego Garcia (or elsewhere), quickly dismissed the debris as a fake.\n\nIn 2018, Ian Wilson, a British video producer, claimed to have spotted the aircraft's remains in Cambodia, using images from Google Maps which were dated to 2018. The images show what appears to be a plane about (ca 10% larger than the MH370's official measurement of ). In addition, the Cambodian jungle is roughly near where air traffic controllers lost contact with the aircraft, on the route from Kuala Lumpur to China.\n\nSome have speculated that the passengers are still alive but cannot answer their cellphones—sometimes known as the \"phantom cellphone theory\". This was based on early reports that family members of Flight 370 passengers heard ringing (as opposed to a busy/off signal) while calling the passengers' phones, though this was after the plane disappeared. This, however, has been challenged by Jeff Kagan, a wireless analyst, who in an email to NBC News explained that the network may still produce \"ringbacks\" as it searches for a connection, even if the cellphone has been destroyed.\n\nThe cockpit had the mandated anti-hijacker fortified doors that could prevent locked-out crew or passengers from interfering with a suicide or hijacking into the Southern Ocean. This can be compared to SilkAir Flight 185 (a posited pilot suicide incident in 1997), EgyptAir Flight 990 (1999), LAM Mozambique Airlines Flight 470 (2013), as well as the later Germanwings Flight 9525 (2015). On 17 February 2014, less than three weeks before Flight 370 disappeared, Ethiopian Airlines Flight 702 had been hijacked when the co-pilot locked the captain out of the cabin and diverted the aircraft to seek asylum in Switzerland.\nShortly after Flight 370's disappearance, media reports revealed that Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah's wife and three children moved out of his house the day before the disappearance; and a friend claimed that Captain Shah was seeing another woman and Shah's relationship with her was also in trouble. Claims of domestic problems have been denied by Shah's family. A fellow pilot and long-time associate of Shah stated the Captain was \"terribly upset\" that his marriage was falling apart. Police were also investigating reports that Shah received a two-minute phone call prior to the flight's departure from an unidentified woman using a mobile phone number obtained with a false identity. Furthermore, Captain Shah was also a supporter of Malaysian opposition politician Anwar Ibrahim, who was sentenced to jail on 7 March after an earlier acquittal on sodomy charges was overturned in a move viewed as politically motivated.\n\nInvestigators noted strange behaviour by Shah from conducting 170 interviews—namely, that the Captain had made no social or professional plans for after 8 March, when Flight 370 disappeared. However, according to the French journalist Florence de Changy who wrote a book about the flight, dismissing \"100 per cent of the official narrative\", Shah made an appointment with his dentist to get back his tooth crown when the dentist phoned him a few days before 8 March. News reports about the Captain's lack of social plans and flight simulator exercises cite results of the police enquiry into the pilots, which have been shared with some of the investigation team but have not been released publicly. However, news reports on 23 July 2014 stated that the police considered the possible culpability of all those onboard the plane, and identified the captain as the prime suspect—if it is proven human intervention was involved. The United States' Federal Bureau of Investigation reconstructed the deleted data from Captain Shah's home flight simulator; a Malaysian government spokesman indicated that \"nothing sinister\" had been found on it. However, \"The Sunday Times\" later reported that among deleted flight paths performed on the flight simulator, investigators found a flight path into the Southern Ocean where a simulated landing was made on an island with a small runway.\nIn 2016, a leaked American document stated that a route on the pilot's home flight simulator closely matching the projected flight over the Indian Ocean was found during the FBI analysis of the hard drive of the computer used for the flight simulator. This was later confirmed by the ATSB, although it stressed that this did not prove the pilot's involvement, and by the Malaysian government.\n\nA book, \"Goodnight Malaysian 370\", was published in August 2014 by New Zealanders Geoff Taylor and Ewan Wilson; the authors blamed a deliberate act of the pilot for the aircraft's disappearance, but admitted they were not able to \"provide any conclusive evidence to support his theory\" nor any motive. Ewan Wilson had previously dismissed the fire emergency theory as unlikely. New Zealand aviation expert Peter Clark stated that to take over the aircraft took \"immense knowledge\" and that even the co-pilot would not have been sufficiently skilled to disable the communications system and reprogramme a seven-hour flight off-course. However, Clark admitted the theory would be difficult to prove even if the data recorders were found, because the voice recorders would likely have been overwritten; and because, if the pilot was in control of the aircraft, then instrument data would report no anomalies. Shah's family vehemently denied the possibility of pilot suicide.\n\nBoeing 777 captain Simon Hardy told BBC News that the plane's route was \"probably very accurate flying rather than just a coincidence\", and noted that the aircraft's turn toward the north-west over the Malacca Strait allowed a clear view of the captain's home island of Penang:\n\nIn May 2018, the Boeing pilot Simon Hardy, who had made similar claims already in 2015, claimed in 60 Minutes Australia that the captain used the flight as a murder-suicide and had deliberately flown the plane over his hometown of Penang before turning right and ditching the plane over the Indian Ocean. He said they found these results by reconstructing the captain's flight plan from the military radar and that the captain had avoided detection of the plane by military radar by flying along the border of Malaysia and Thailand, crossing in and out of each country's airspaces.\n\nA number of theories suggest that the disappearance may have been the result of a cockpit, cargo compartment, landing gear, or other onboard fire. \nIn an earlier incident involving a Boeing 777, on 29 July 2011, EgyptAir Flight 667 suffered an intense oxygen-fed cockpit fire while still on the ground which destroyed the flight controls and instruments and burnt a hole through the skin of the aircraft. Despite the arrival of firefighters within three minutes, the fire took 90 minutes to extinguish. Malaysia Air's maintenance records for the 777 aircraft are required to include information on whether the FAA-mandated fix to the wiring near the co-pilot's oxygen hose and replacement of the oxygen hose with one with no metallic components was performed.\n\nAnother suggestion is that the pilots had turned back and were attempting an emergency landing at the nearest suitable airport in Northern Malaysia, perhaps Penang International Airport or Langkawi International Airport (Langkawi Island), a 13,000-foot airstrip with an approach over water with no obstacles. The emergency may have been due to an incident similar to the 11 July 1991 accident involving a Douglas DC-8, Nigeria Airways Flight 2120, where a tire caught fire on takeoff, and the later spreading of the fire led to the destruction of the aircraft with the loss of 261 lives. In another accident, involving a fire on a McDonnell Douglas MD-11 on 2 September 1998, Swissair Flight 111 from New York to Geneva developed a cockpit fire in the electrical wiring that spread rapidly, leading to a loss of flight instruments and control. The aircraft crashed into the Atlantic Ocean with the loss of 229 lives, 8 kilometres (5.0 mi) from shore, southwest of Halifax International Airport, Nova Scotia, where the plane was attempting an emergency landing. In the Swissair case the transponders and communications were shut off as the crew pulled the busses in an attempt to control the fire.\n\nAmerican political commentator Rush Limbaugh, according to CNN, speculated that the aircraft may have been shot down. Supporters of this theory have noted that civilian aircraft have been shot down by military forces in the past, with Iran Air Flight 655 by the United States in 1988 and KAL 007 by the Soviet Union in 1983 being two frequently cited examples. On 19 March 2014, news agency reporter Scott Mayerowitz of Associated Press described \"Accidental Shootdown\" as one of seven \"leading, plausible theories\", but added that there was \"no evidence that Flight 370 was brought down by a government entity\". A Malaysian defence official, Ackbal bin Haji Abdul Samad, said it was \"highly not possible\" that his country's air force had shot down the plane. According to \"The Financial Express\", the Malaysian Air Force detected the plane on radar while it was in flight, but took no action because it was believed to be a \"friendly\" aircraft.\n\nIn May 2014, author Nigel Cawthorne's book \"\" was published. Cawthorne alleged that after the jet was shot down during a U.S.-Thai Joint Strike Fighter jet training exercise, searchers intentionally were sent astray as part of a sophisticated cover-up. The book received considerable criticism, especially from \"The Australian\" where it was characterised thus: \"Cawthorne undoes everybody's good work by retrieving every obsolete and discredited non-fact from the trash, slapping the whole lot between covers.\" Relatives of those aboard Flight 370 criticised the book as \"premature and insensitive\".\n\nIn a CNN interview on 24 April 2014, the Malaysian Prime Minister, Najib Razak, stated only that the radar \"tracked an aircraft which did a turn back, but they were not exactly sure whether it was MH370. What they were sure of was that the aircraft was not deemed to be hostile.\"\n\nOn 22 December 2014 the former head of Proteus Airlines, Marc Dugain, claimed that the plane may have been shot down by U.S. military personnel out of fear of an attack similar to the September 11 attacks on their Navy Base in Diego Garcia. The claims were described by the source article as \"wild\".\n\nIncidentally, later that same year a different Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 was shot down over Ukraine by a surface-to-air missile.\n\nThe hypothesis that a cyberattack may have been carried out on Flight 370 has been raised, primarily based on statements made by Sally Leivesley, a former scientific advisor to the UK government. Leivesley proposed that hackers may have changed the plane's speed, direction, and altitude using radio signals to the plane's flight management system. Whether existing security on commercial flights is sufficient to prevent such an attack is also a matter of debate, although Boeing has dismissed the possibility. A spokeswoman for the company, Gayla Keller, said that they were \"confident in the robust protection of all flight critical systems and inability for a hacker to gain access by either external or internal means on the 777 and all Boeing airplanes.\"\n\nWhile supporters of this theory have cited Hugo Teso's app which hacked into pilot-training software, which Teso presented at a conference in April 2013, the Federal Aviation Administration and other major governmental bodies dismissed the significance of the app. They stated that the software on an actual plane would be different from the software on which Teso had tested his app.\n\nA mathematics professor from Texas has argued that the plane must have entered the sea vertically; any other angle of entry would have splintered the airplane to many pieces, which would have necessarily been found already.\n\nOn 17 July 2014, Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down over Ukraine. Because it, like Flight 370, was also a Boeing 777, some conspiracy theorists have suggested that the plane that crashed in Ukraine was actually Flight 370. This is based in part on photographs of the crash scene, which conspiracy theorists claim show that the plane that crashed in Ukraine had structural differences from MH17. Experts have dismissed this theory and argued that it is merely coincidental that both planes involved belonged to the same airline.\n\nWhen Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501 crashed on 28 December 2014, various similarities with MH370 were noted, including that both airlines were Malaysian-owned, and that both planes lost contact with air traffic control. There was also a reported conspiracy theory involving an alleged prediction on 15 December 2014 (and possibly repeated on 16 and 17 December), by a user of the Chinese website Tianya Club whose name was reported by the English-speaking media to be 'Landlord' (a mis-translation). The user's post warned Chinese people to stay away from AirAsia as it would be attacked, as MH370 and MH17 allegedly had been (according to the user), as part of a conspiracy by a \"black hand\" or \"despicable international bully\" to harm Malaysian-owned airlines. Other online posters suggested that the user was either a Chinese intelligence official or a hacker who had come across secret information. Some skeptics suggested the user's posts or posting dates may have been retrospectively changed to create the false impression of a successful prediction.\n\nThe theory that MH370 may have been consumed by a black hole received considerable attention when Don Lemon asked, on CNN, whether it was \"preposterous\" that it could have happened. Lemon was criticised for this by Jon Stewart on \"The Daily Show\", and by former U.S. Department of Transportation Inspector General Mary Schiavo, who, while appearing on CNN, said that \"...a small black hole would suck in our entire universe so we know it's not that.\" TheWire.com (which \"wasn't satisfied\" with Schiavo's answer) obtained detailed reasons why a black hole couldn't swallow a plane from Columbia University astronomy professor David J. Helfand and Peter Michelson, a professor of physics at Stanford University, reasons which did not involve any suggestion that a small black hole could suck in the entire universe. It is possible that Schiavo was expressing herself humorously, and did not expect to be taken literally. Another hypothesis is that a meteor might have struck the plane; however, the statistical probability for this is extremely low.\n\nA poll posted on CNN's website reported that 9% of respondents thought it was either very or somewhat likely that the plane was abducted by aliens, \"time travelers or beings from another dimension\".\n\nAs an example of an Internet theory which they imply their readers should not take seriously, \"The Independent\" and the \"Huffington Post\" have reported the suggestion that Pitbull and Shakira's song released in 2012 \"Get It Started\" displays prior knowledge of Flight 370's disappearance. The lines cited most often by advocates of this conspiracy theory are \"Now it's off to Malaysia\" and \"Two passports, three cities, two countries, one day\". The lyrics \"No Ali, No Frazier, but for to Malaysia\" were linked to 'Mr. Ali', who was referred to by the press as one of the Iranian passengers, even though Malaysian authorities have confirmed that the 19-year-old passenger is actually called Pouria Nourmohammadi. (In the song, \"Ali\" actually refers to boxing legend Muhammad Ali, who beat another boxing legend, Joe Frazier, in the Thrilla in Manila on 1 October 1975). Proponents of this theory have linked the \"two passports\" to the stolen Austrian and Italian passports used by two passengers to board the plane. The reliable sources for this story dismiss the lyrics as \"mere coincidence\" and indicate that to take it seriously would be \"a terrible idea\", with supporters of the theory being described as \"conspiracy theorists\" and \"YouTube illuminati\".\n\nA satirical, report claimed that the captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah had reappeared in Taiwan, but was unable to remember what had happened.\n\nOn 9 March 2014, members of the Chinese news media received an open letter that claimed to be from the leader of the Chinese Martyrs Brigade, a previously unknown group. The letter claimed that the loss of Flight 370 was in retaliation for the Chinese government's response to the knife attacks at Kunming railway station on 1 March 2014 and part of the wider separatist campaign against Chinese control over Xinjiang province. The letter also listed unspecified grievances against the Malaysian government. The letter's claim was dismissed as fraudulent based on its lack of detail regarding the fate of Flight 370 and the fact that the name \"Chinese Martyrs Brigade\" appeared inconsistent with Uyghur separatist groups which describe themselves as \"East Turkestan\" and \"Islamic\" rather than \"Chinese\".\n"}
{"id": "58397245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58397245", "title": "Mortal wound", "text": "Mortal wound\n\nA mortal wound is an injury that will ultimately lead to a person's death. Mortal refers to the mortality of a human: whether they are going to live or die. is another term for injury. The expression can mean 'extreme', for example when it was used in the 2017 Times article \"Being Frightened is not a Moral Wound.\" The \"mortal wound\" adjectival phrase has the same meaning as the adverbial usage of \"mortally wounded\", \"mortally\" being the adverb of \"mortal\" and \"wounded\" being the adjective of \"wound\".\n\nThe adjective \"mortal\" was first used in the 14th Century. The word has roots in Old French \"mortel\" and Latin \"mortalis\" both meaning \"fated to die\" as well as \"mors\" meaning \"in danger of death\".\n\nThe noun \"wound\" comes from Old English \"wund\" meaning \"to injure\" as well as the Proto-Germanic *\"wuntho\" which also means \"wound\".\n\nThe first entry in the Oxford English Dictionary for \"mortal wound\" is dated 1578 and the first entry for \"mortally wounded\" is dated 1569. Pre-1569, in the 1390 \"Melibeus\" by Geoffrey Chaucer, the author uses the term \"mortal woundes\" in the quote \"Thre of his olde foos..betten his wif wounded his doghter with fyue mortal woundes\", this is where Melibeus's daughter received five mortal wounds, when three of his foes found Melibeus's wife and daughter alone in his house.\n\nIn 1569, \"mortally wounded\" was used in the text \"Certaine Secrete Wonders Nature\" by in \"aboue 400 dead bodies, beside 140 mortally wounded and almost torne in peces\", the quote explains that due to the extreme heat of a fire 140 men are wounded, the account said that they looked like they had been torn to pieces.\n\nIn 1578, \"mortal wound\" was used in the poetic text \"Courtlie Controuersie of Cupids Caulels \" by Jacques Yver translated by Henry Wotton in \"His mortal wound, that no long before was almost cured y a fomentation of the oyle of time, and neare skinned with hope of the recouerie of his welbeloued Iewel,\" the author describes how the personas old \"mortal wound\" was not yet recovered and as it was a serious wound, yet he hoped he would recover completely.\n\nIn 1581, \"mortal wound\" was used in the historical non-fiction \"History of the Reformation of the Church of England\" by Gilbert Burnet and Nicholas Sander in “He went to \"Rome\"; and giving the Assault, in which received his mortal wound” where\"Vaudemont\" went to subdue the battle but was prevented by the Duke of \"Boubon\" receiving a \"mortal wound\", the Duke of \"Boubon\" then proceeded with the battle in \"Rome\" causing many deaths as well as leading The Pope with a few Cardinals to flee for safety.\n\nIn 1593, \"mortal wound\" was used in the sonnet \"Fidessa, More Chaste than Kind: Sonnet XXVII\" in “Yet every foot gives thee thy mortal wound” the quote comes from the Sonnet that describes a man stumbling in the street at night as he metaphorically compares his existence to that of a worm and due to the habitat of worms every step a person takes could be a \"mortal\" wound inflicted on worm ultimately leading to its death. In the Sonnet, the man believes that his existence is worse than that of a worm.\n\nIn 1661 \"mortal wound\" is used in the religious text \"The Unsearchable Riches of Christ\" where \"The Lord Jesus hath given such a mortal wound by his death and Spirit\" the text explains that because Jesus sacrificed himself and received his \"mortal wound\" in the New Testament because he did not die straight away but died \"little by little\" allowed him to rid the whole world of sin.\n\nIn 1667 \"mortal wound\" is used in John Milton's \".\" In his epic biblical poem based on the retelling of Genesis he uses the term \"mortal wound\" in the passage \"cannot but by annihilating die; Nor in their liquid texture mortal wound Receive, no more than can the fluid air,\" Milton explains spirits cannot receive \"mortal wounds\" due to the nature of their intangible form. \n\nIn 1672 the term \"mortal wound\" is used in the medical text \"The Chirurgical and Anatomical Works of Paul Barbette\", the text defines \"mortal wound\" as \"A mortal Wound is that, which in the Space of few hours, or dayes, of necessity causes Death, and cannot by any Artt be Cured.\" The text further goes on to explain that if a wound is curable but has been neglected by the patient and results in death that it is not considered a \"mortal wound\" even though it resulted in the patients death. This also applies to wounds that are incurable and allow the patient to live for weeks to years. Therefore, the author explains that if the wound does not result in a \"sudden\" death it is not considered a \"mortal wound.\"\n\nThe \"London Gazette\" is one of the British governments official journals. In the 1714 \"The London Gazette: Issue 5228,\" under the \"Advertisements\" section, \"mortal wound\" is used to describe an injury a man named Edward Hurley received from a Two-Bill from the quote \"Whereas one Henry Bray, Weaver, now or late of Culmstock, in the County of Devon, did on Tuesday the 18 Instant, give one Edward Hurley … a mortal Wound on the Head with a Two-Bill, that he dy’d.” the journal goes on to describe Henry Bray's appearance, mannerisms and the clothes he usually wears as well as stating that anyone that helps bring him to justice will receive a monetary reward. \n\nThe first dictionary that had an entry for \"mortal wound\" is Edward Phillips's \"The New World of Words: or, Universal English Dictionary,\" \"16th edition,\" published in 1720. The entry says \"Mortal Wound. See \"Wound\"\" at the entry for wound the definition for mortal wound states \"Mortal Wound, is that which must unavoidably be follow'd by Death, when it is situate deep in a principal Part, necessary for the Preservation of Life: Such are wounds in the Heart, Lungs, Midriff, Liver, Spleen Etc. and generally in all the great Vessels\". \n\nPoet Allan Ramsay, during 1724, in \": a poem 1st edition\" described “When th’ uvula has got its mortal wound, and tongue and lips form words without a sound;\" where he states that the uvula had received a \"mortal wound\", using the term metaphorically to describe an uvula infection possibly due to Influenza which often lead to death in the 1700s.\n\nIn 1760 \"mortal wound\" is used in the Trial of \"Lawrence Earl Ferrers, for the Murder of John Johnson\". John Johnson received \"One mortal Wound of the ‘Breadth of One Inch and Depth of Four Inches; of which said moral Wound the said \"John Johnson\" did ... live, until the Nineteenth Day of the same Month of January, ... on which Day, ... he the said John Johnson, of the mortal Wound aforesaid, died.\" During the trial the Juror's found \"Lawrence Earl Ferrers\" guilty for murder as he purposefully and without remorse injured \"John Johnson\" which lead to his death.\n\nOther examples of \"mortal wound\" are found inside:\n\n\nIn the 1817 love poem \"Laon and Cythna\" by Percy Bysshe Shelley used \"mortal wound\" to describe \"Upon his enemies heart a mortal wound to wreck,\" where a metaphorical eagle wished to give his enemy: a serpent, a mortal wound.\n\nThe 1838 romance novel \"Leila\" \"II. ii. by\" Edward Bulwer-Lytton uses \"mortal wound\" to depict the scene \"while the blood oozes slow and gurgling from a mortal wound,\" this line occurs when a soldier wearing armour did not appear to have been wounded but blood was leaking from a serious wound he had sustained.\n\nThe 1865 text \"Camps and Prisons. Twenty Months in the Department of the Gulf\" by Augustine Joseph Hickey Duganne is a collection of personal accounts of the civil war. \"Mortal wound\" is used by the author when he exclaims \"And the wide land with mortal wound outbleeds!\" the author is describing the mass of men that are found with seriously injured throughout the land he stands on.\n\nIn the 1982 non-fiction \"Tortious Liability for Unintentional Harm in the Common Law and the Civil Law,\" the author discusses problems associated with liability in European Law. He uses the term \"mortal wound\" to discuss the issue of accountability regarding \"mortally wounding\" a slave. The author states \"In the first, Celsus, Marcellus and Ulpian agree that if one man gives a slave a moral wound and another afterwards kills him, only the latter is liable under the first chapter for killing the former only under the third for wounding,\" while contrastingly he also explains \"Julian… says... if one man gives a slave a mortal wound and after an interval another strikes him in a way as to hasten his death, both are liable for killing.\" The author explains that the juxtaposition is due to Julian focusing on the original wound being intentionally mortal, leading to the slaves death, while Celsus contradicts Julian and mainly focuses on the importance of the resulting death of the slave.\n\nThe religious text \"The Apocalypse: A Reading of the Revelation of John\" published in 1994 uses the term \"moral wound\" in reference to \"Revelation 13:3,\" the text describes a beast where “one of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound, but its wound was healed,” The author explains that this section of \"Revelation 13\" refers to the legend of Nero, Roman Emperor, ‘coming back to life’ or still being alive after receiving a \"mortal wound\" and his vengeful goal of leading the Parthian army to the destroy Rome.\n\nIn the 1997 text \"Virgil's Aeneid: Semantic Relations and Proper Names\" the author reflects on Virgil's epic poem using \"mortal wound\" in \"The mortal wound that Turnus inflicted on the youth made this wound an unhealable one.\" this is where Turnus and Aeneas are battling in Italy, even though Aeneas is injured he returns to battle and \"Aeneas inflicts the mortal wound on Turnus in the name of ‘Pallas’.\" where Aeneas takes vengence for Turnus killing his friend Pallas.\n\nOther examples of \"mortal wound\" are found inside:\n\n\nThe number of Google search hits on 12 August 2006 for \"mortally wounded\" was 989,000 The number of Google hits on 12 October 2018 for \"mortal wound\" had 346,000 results and \"mortally wounded\" had 1,660,000 results. \n\nMore modern usage of the term \"mortal wound\" is often more figurative than literal: seen in the 1998 article \"Paternal Style Leaves Mortal Wounds\" by Deutsch Stephen. The article talks about the demise of a hospital without a director present and a proper mission statement which would lead to it's implied 'eventual' death. \n\n\"The Law Dictionary (2013)\" defines the term mortal wound as \"the term that is applied to a wound that is fatal\"\n\nIn the 2007 \"Republic of Philippines Supreme Court Petition for Review\" of Lazaro (petitioner) versus Crisaldo Alberto (prosecutor) the decision report uses the term \"mortal wound\", it discusses the importance of being able to discern whether the petitioner had inflicted a mortal or non-mortal wound on the prosecutor Crisaldo in determining the sentence for Lazaro. If the Jury believed that Crisaldo had been inflicted with a mortal wound, which would have lead to death if untreated, then Lazaro would be accused of attempted murder, rather than frustrated murder. \n\nAccording to \"Causation in Criminal Law\" from the Pennsylvania Law Review the term \"moral wound\" is used to denote that an injury is serious. In \"Causation in the Law\" from Oxford University Press, the term \"mortal wound\" is given three meanings: (i) an injury that is likely to cause death to an average person under normal circumstances (ii) an injury that has a high likelihood of causing the victim death if left untreated medically; (iii) an injury that is likely to cause death even though it does not apply to the first two circumstances (e.g. a minor injury neglected by the victim).\n\nThe 2018 Australian news article \"Dutton delivers mortal wound to Turnbull\" uses \"mortal wound\" metaphorically as the death of Prime minister Turnbull's party's support. Member of parliament Petter Dutton challenged Prime minister Malcolm Turnbull for leadership of the Australian Liberal Party. The article describes it as, when fewer than 60% of a prime minister's colleagues support him he is a \"dead leader walking.\"\n\n\"Being Frightened is not a Mortal Wound\" is a 2017 article written by the Times Columnist as a response to a letter on the 2nd November, \"Let’s rethink Halloween Fireworks.\" The letter describes its dissatisfaction that people believe that taking offence is synonymous with being \"mortally wounded\". They use this stance to argue that people are being overly cautious by trying to alter the halloween fireworks due to the possibility of frightening animals and children.\n\n"}
{"id": "54299574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54299574", "title": "Next Conservative Party (UK) leadership election", "text": "Next Conservative Party (UK) leadership election\n\nThe next Conservative Party leadership election has not yet been formally launched. Speculation of a leadership election centres around the Leader of the Conservative Party and Prime Minister Theresa May's fate. It first arose following the party's poor showing at the 2017 snap general election that May had called in hope of increasing her parliamentary majority for Brexit negotiations. However, the Conservatives lost their majority in the House of Commons due to a swing towards the Labour Party.\n\nSubsequent speculation has arisen from the difficulties May has had in agreeing a Brexit deal that is acceptable to the Conservative Party. These escalated in November 2018, with members of the Eurosceptic European Research Group pushing for a vote of no confidence in May. Were this to occur and May to lose, a new leadership election would be called.\n\nAfter Britain voted to leave the EU, David Cameron resigned as Leader of the Conservative Party and as Prime Minister, which triggered the 2016 Conservative Party leadership election. Home Secretary Theresa May won the contest after the withdrawal of Andrea Leadsom, and succeeded Cameron as Prime Minister on 13 July. As Prime Minister, May began the process of withdrawing the UK from the European Union, triggering Article 50 on 29 March 2017. In April 2017, May announced a snap general election in June, in order to \"strengthen her hand\" when she negotiated with the European Union. Opinion polls originally predicted a landslide victory for the Conservative Party, and May aimed to substantially increase her party's slim majority. However, the result was a hung parliament, in which the number of Conservative seats fell from 330 to 317, prompting her to broker a confidence and supply deal with Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) to support her minority government.\n\nMay's handling of the campaign was widely criticised, particularly the role of her two chiefs of staff, Nick Timothy and Fiona Hill. In June 2017, former Chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, described May as a \"dead woman walking\". A survey on the website Conservative Home found that almost two-thirds of Conservative party members wanted Theresa May to resign. A YouGov poll of 1,720 adults for the \"Sunday Times\" had 48% saying May should resign, with 38% against. A Survation poll of 1,036 adults online for the \"Mail on Sunday\" showed 49% of people wanting her resignation, with 38% against. Former Cabinet minister Anna Soubry called for May to \"consider her position\" after the election result. Former Cabinet minister Nicky Morgan said that May could not lead the Conservative Party into the next general election and called for a leadership election in the summer or in 2018 before the Brexit deal is finalised. Brexiteers pledged loyalty to May but many reportedly threatened an immediate leadership challenge should May plan to dilute her initial plans for Brexit. After the Grenfell Tower fire, May's leadership faced more criticism after her initial refusal to meet victims and her poor handling of the crisis.\n\nWith May's position weakened, senior colleagues in the party were said to be preparing for a leadership contest and \"jostling for succession\". Politicians and journalists do not expect May to lead the party at the next general election, with the Sunday Times Political Editor Tim Shipman describing \"the first shots in a battle that could tear the government apart\" in a July 2017 article as the three then-leading contenders for the leadership, David Davis, Boris Johnson and Philip Hammond, briefed against each other. Junior ministers were also said to be frustrated at Cabinet ministers propping up a Prime Minister with no authority to further their careers, with some ministers preparing to resign in order to trigger a leadership election. Andrew Mitchell, an ally of Davis, was said to have told a dinner that May was finished and was said to be organising letters to force May to announce her date of departure. A July 2017 report in The Independent said a core of fifteen Conservative MPs were ready to sign a letter of no confidence, with forty-eight needed to trigger a contest.\n\nMay reportedly announced to Conservative MPs in August 2017 that she would resign as Prime Minister on 30 August 2019, making it likely that the next leadership election would take place in the summer of 2019. However, May subsequently announced on 31 August 2017 that she intended to stay on to fight the next general election, which under the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 is scheduled to be in 2022 (though it can be held earlier if MPs vote for it to be, as happened for the snap election of 2017).\n\nOn 16 September 2017, Johnson published an article in \"The Daily Telegraph\" laying out his vision for Brexit. Many people saw this as him positioning himself for a leadership challenge, although some commentators, such as \"Newsnight\"'s political editor Nick Watt and columnist Iain Dale, argued this was the wrong interpretation and that Johnson's motivation was to assert his influence in Brexit negotiations. The timing of the article, a few days before May was to give a significant speech on her plans for the UK's relationship with Europe after Brexit, and shortly after a terrorist attack in London, was criticised.\n\nFollowing Cabinet agreement for May's proposals on Brexit, Davis resigned from his government position on 8 July 2018. Following that, Steve Baker also resigned. On the same day it was reported that May was facing the threat of a leadership contest amid mounting anger from Brexiteers over her government's Brexit policy. Conservative Party backbencher Andrea Jenkyns called on for the Prime Minister to be replaced, saying “Theresa May's premiership is over”. Johnson later resigned as Foreign Secretary on 9 July 2018.\n\nA \"Daily Telegraph\" article opposing the burqa ban in Denmark by Johnson in early August 2018 sparked controversy given some of the language he used, saying women wearing the burqa look like letter boxes or bank robbers. Some saw it as an attempt to court an anti-Islamic segment of the Conservative Party membership, the electorate in a leadership campaign, while others defended him as straight-talking. Dominic Grieve MP said on 8 August that he would not remain in the party if Johnson became leader.\n\nIn November 2018, May presented her final proposal for an initial Brexit deal following negotiations with the EU. Dominic Raab, her Brexit secretary, and others resigned from the Cabinet in response, with Jacob Rees-Mogg calling for a leadership election for the first time. Members of the Eurosceptic European Research Group, like Rees-Mogg and Steve Baker, were seen to be launching a coup in mid-November following the Cabinet resignations. There was considerable speculation over whether enough letters of no confidence would be reached to trigger a vote.\n\n15% of the Parliamentary party (currently 48 MPs) need to send a letter to the chairman of the 1922 Committee to trigger a no confidence vote in the Conservative Party leader. As of early afternoon on 16 November 2018, the BBC reported there were 21 MPs who had publicly stated they had sent a letter: Rees-Mogg, Baker, Andrea Jenkyns, Andrew Bridgen, Philip Davies, James Duddridge, Anne Marie Morris, Lawrence Robertson, Nadine Dorries, Simon Clarke, Henry Smith, Maria Caulfield, Sheryll Murray, Lee Rowley, Martin Vickers, Peter Bone, Mark Francois, Adam Holloway, John Whittingdale, Ben Bradley, Chris Green. Baker asserted that more letters had been sent and that he expected 48 to be reached probably in the week beginning 19 November. However, commentators expressed some scepticism about this prediction. By 19 November, 26 MPs publicly said they had submitted letters, with the addition of Marcus Fysh, Zac Goldsmith, David Jones, Bill Cash, and Philip Hollobone. Baker also suggested that the ERG could draw lots for who would be their candidate in a leadership election. By 20 November, the 48 letters had not been reached, with Rees-Mogg predicting that it may be reached in December when the House of Commons votes on May's deal.\n\nA very large number of candidates have attracted attention or been the subject of speculation as possible candidates. In 2017, the main contenders were initially seen to be Philip Hammond, David Davis, Boris Johnson and Amber Rudd. By early August 2017, Jacob Rees-Mogg was receiving considerable attention and he had risen to second in the betting markets after Davis.\n\nRuth Davidson has continuously received considerable speculation, despite being ineligible as she is not currently an MP at Westminster. However, she claimed that she did not want the job and would focus on politics in Scotland in September 2018.\n\nFollowing renewed speculation about May's leadership after Johnson and Davis resigned from the Cabinet in summer 2018, press interest focused on Johnson, Rees-Mogg, Michael Gove, Sajid Javid and Jeremy Hunt. Dominic Raab became Brexit secretary after Davis. In November 2018, following his resignation from the role, Raab became the bookmakers' favourite to be new leader, followed by Javid or Johnson.\n\nAs of , the following individuals have publicly expressed interest in the leadership of the Conservative Party:\n\n\nAs of , the following individuals have received speculation as potential leadership candidates.\n\n"}
{"id": "1550552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1550552", "title": "Paris massacre of 1961", "text": "Paris massacre of 1961\n\nThe Paris massacre of 1961 occurred on 17 October 1961, during the Algerian War (1954–62). Under orders from the head of the Parisian police, Maurice Papon, the French National Police attacked a demonstration of some 30,000 pro-National Liberation Front (FLN) Algerians. After 37 years of denial and censorship of the press, in 1998 the French government finally acknowledged 40 deaths, although there are estimates of 100 to 300 victims. Death was due to heavy-handed beating by the police, as well as massive drownings, as police officers threw demonstrators in the river Seine.\n\nThe massacre appears to have been intentional, as has been demonstrated by historian , who won a trial against Maurice Papon in 1999. (Papon had been convicted in 1998 on charges of crimes against humanity for his role under the Vichy collaborationist regime during World War II.) Official documentation and accounts of eyewitnesses within the Paris police department suggest that the 1961 massacre was directed by Papon himself. Police records show that Papon called for officers in one station to be \"subversive\" in quelling the demonstrations, and assured them protection from prosecution if they participated.\n\nForty years after the massacre, on 17 October 2001, Bertrand Delanoë, the Socialist Mayor of Paris, put up a plaque in remembrance of the massacre on the Pont Saint-Michel. How many demonstrators were killed is still unclear. In the absence of official estimates, the placard which commemorates the massacre stated: \"In memory of the many Algerians killed during the bloody repression of the peaceful demonstration of 17 October 1961\". On 18 February 2007 (the day after Papon's death) calls were made for a Paris Métro station under construction in Gennevilliers to be named \"17 Octobre 1961\" in commemoration of the massacre.\n\nThe events were documented by a number of photographs, many of them graphic.\n\nOn 17 October 1961, the massacre took place in the context of the Algerian War (1954–62), which had become increasingly violent over the years. After de Gaulle's equivocal return to power during the May 1958 crisis and his sudden change of policy concerning Algerian independence, the OAS used all possible means to oppose the National Liberation Front (FLN), which took the war to the metropolis where it was helped by some activists such as the Jeanson network. The repression by French authorities, both in Algeria and in metropolitan France, was very harsh.\n\nAccording to historian Jean-Luc Einaudi, a specialist on the massacre, some of the causes of the violent repression of the 17 October 1961 demonstration can best be understood in terms of the composition of the French police force itself, which still included many former members of the force in place during the World War II Vichy regime which had collaborated with the Gestapo to detain Jews, as for example in the Vel' d'Hiv Roundup of 16–17 July 1942.\n\nThe vast majority of police officers suspended after the Liberation of Paris in 1944 for extreme forms of collaborationism (including assistance to the \"Parti Populaire Français\" and similar groups) were later reintegrated into the police forces. In contrast, some of the policemen who had been part of the Resistance movement had their career advancement blocked because of Cold War anti-communism, since the Resistance was partially communist and communist ministers had been expelled from the government in May 1947. Moreover, police officers who had been members of the Resistance might well have taken part in the various raids against Jews and other persecuted groups during the Vichy regime, as otherwise they would have been dismissed, according to Einaudi and Maurice Rajsfus.\n\nThe career of Maurice Papon as Head of Paris' police force in the 1960s and Minister of Finance under Valéry Giscard d'Estaing's presidency in the 1970s, suggests that there was institutional racism in the French police until at least the 1960s. In fact, Papon was not charged and convicted until 1997–98 for his World War II crimes against humanity in being responsible for the deportation of 1,560 Jews, including children and the elderly, between 1942 and 1944.\n\nBefore his appointment as chief of the Paris police, Papon had been, since 1956, prefect of the Constantine department in Algeria, where he actively participated in the repression of and the use of torture against the civilian population. On 13 March 1958, 7,000 policemen demonstrated in the courtyard of the police headquarters, against the delays in the \"risque prime\" accorded to them because of the war, although the FLN had not yet begun to target police officers at this time. Encouraged by far-right deputy Jean-Marie Le Pen, 2,000 of them attempted to enter the Palais Bourbon, seat of the National Assembly, with shouts of \"Sales Juifs! A la Seine! Mort aux fellaghas!\" (\"Dirty Jews! Into the Seine (river)! Death to the (Algerian) rebels!\"). With the recommendation of Minister of Interior Maurice Bourgès-Maunoury, Maurice Papon was next day named prefect of the police. Two years earlier, in Constantine, Algeria, he had assumed the role of \"Inspecteur général pour l'administration en mission extraordinaire\" (IGAME – General Inspector for the Administration on Extraordinary Mission). \"Prohibited zones, detention centers ('camps de regroupements'), torture, executions without trial: this is the reality of the war he [Papon] was supervising out there.\" According to Einaudi, in the following years he applied these methods in Paris and the Seine department.\n\nAfter the May 1958 crisis and the installation of the new Fifth Republic under 'Free France' leader Charles de Gaulle's leadership, Maurice Papon was kept on. Papon created the 'compagnies de district' (district companies), police forces that specialized in repression, where new police recruits were trained. These district companies were formed mainly from veterans of the Indochina War (1947–54) and young Frenchmen coming back from Algeria.\n\nOn 25 August 1958, an FLN offensive in Paris killed three policemen on boulevard de l'Hôpital in the 13th Arrondissement and another in front of the \"cartoucherie de Vincennes\". The Prefect of police, Maurice Papon, organized in retaliation massive raids on Algerian people in Paris and its suburbs. More than 5,000 Algerians were detained in the former Beaujon hospital, in the Japy gymnasium (11th Arrondissement) and in the Vél'd'Hiv – the Japy gymnasium and the Vél'd'Hiv had been used as detention centers under the Vichy regime. A former member of the FTP resistance, reporter Madeleine Rifaud then wrote in \"L'Humanité\":\n\nIn the past two days, a racist concentration camp has been opened in Paris. They have not even had the good sense to choose a site which would not remind French patriots who are currently celebrating the anniversary of the Liberation of Paris of what took place there.\n\nAccording to Einaudi, \"Already at this time, policemen [were] boasting about throwing Algerians in the Seine\" river. Vincennes' \"identification center\" (CIV – \"Centre d'identification de Vincennes\") was then created under the authority of the prefecture of police in January 1959. Algerians detained during police raids in the Paris region could be brought there for identity verifications but could also be put under house arrest by the police prefect. \"These raids were frequently the occasion of violence,\" Einaudi stated.\n\nThe \"Auxiliary Police Force\" (FPA – \"Force de police auxiliaire\") was then created in 1959. This special constabulary force, put under the authority of the Algerian Affairs Coordination Center of the Prefecture of Police (\"Centre de coordination des Affaires algériennes de la préfecture de police\") and supervised by the military, was under the control of Papon. Led by Captain Raymond Montaner and based at the Fort de Noisy, Romainville, it was composed entirely of Algerian Muslims – recruited either in Algeria or in France. In autumn 1960, the FPA was composed of 600 members. It first operated in the 13th Arrondissement where it requisitioned café-hotels. Torture is rumoured to have been utilized most notably at 9, rue Harvey and 208, rue du Château des Rentiers. Forced disappearances took place. The FPA then extended its action to the 18th Arrondissement, where three hotels were requisitioned in rue de la Goutte-d'Or. The FPA was also active in the suburbs, from the summer of 1961, in particular in Nanterre's bidonvilles. Some voices were opposed to these crimes denied by the police prefecture\". Christian magazine \"Témoignage Chrétien\" wrote: \"It is not possible to stay mute when, in our Paris, men are resurrecting the methods of the Gestapo\".\n\nThe FLN decided to resume bombings against the French police at the end of August 1961; from the end of August 1961 to the beginning of October 1961, 11 policemen were killed and 17 injured in Paris and its suburbs. \"These bombings had the effect of spreading fear throughout the ranks of the Paris police, but also for increasing the desire for revenge and hate against the whole of the community. During the whole of September, the Algerian population was severely repressed. In practice, this massive repression was based on physical appearance\", according to Einaudi. Daily raids against Algerians — frequently confusing any Magreb people (Moroccans or Tunisians), and even Spanish or Italian immigrants, with Algerians. – Algerians were arrested at work or in the streets and were thrown into the Seine with their hands tied in order to drown them, among the other methods used for this repression, as shown for example by a report published by the priest, Joseph Kerlan, from the Mission de France.\n\nAccording to historian Einaudi, \"It was in this climate that, on 2 October, during the funerals of a policeman killed by the FLN, the police prefect (Papon) proclaimed, in the prefecture's courtyard: \"For one hit taken we shall give back ten!\" This call was an encouragement to kill Algerians and was immediately understood as such. On the same day, visiting Montrouge's police station, the prefect of police declared to the police officers present: \"You also must be subversive in the war that sets you against others. You will be covered, I give you my word on that.\"\n\nOn 5 October 1961, the Prefecture of Police announced in a press statement the introduction of a curfew from 8.30 p.m. to 5.30 a.m. in Paris and its suburbs for \"Algerian Muslim workers\", \"French Muslims\" and \"French Muslims of Algeria\" (all three terms used by Papon, although the approximately 150,000 Algerians living at the time in Paris were officially considered French and possessed a French identity card). The French Federation of the FLN thus called upon the whole of the Algerian population in Paris, men, women and children, to demonstrate against the curfew, widely regarded as a racist administrative measure, on 17 October 1961. According to historian Jean-Luc Einaudi, Papon had 7,000 policemen, 1,400 CRS and \"gendarmes mobiles\" (riot police) to block this demonstration, to which the Prefecture of Police had not given its agreement (mandatory for legal demonstrations). The police forces thus blocked all access to the capital, metro stations, train stations, Paris' \"Portes\", etc. Of a population of about 150,000 Algerians living in Paris, 30,000–40,000 of them managed to join the demonstration however. Police raids were carried out all over the city. 11,000 persons were arrested, and transported by RATP bus to the Parc des Expositions and other internment centers used under Vichy. Those detained included not only Algerians, but also Moroccans and Tunisians immigrants, who were then sent to the various police stations, to the courtyard of the police prefecture, the Palais des Sports of Porte de Versailles (15th Arrondissement), and the Stade Pierre de Coubertin, etc.\n\nDespite these raids, 4,000 to 5,000 people succeeded in demonstrating peacefully on the Grands Boulevards from République to Opéra, without incident. Blocked at Opéra by police forces, the demonstrators backtracked. Reaching the Rex cinema (the site as the present Le Rex Club on the \"Grands Boulevards\"), the police opened fire on the crowd and charged, leading to several deaths. On the Neuilly bridge (separating Paris from the suburbs), the police detachments and FPA members also shot at the crowd, killing some. Algerians were thrown into and drowned in the Seine at points across the city and its suburbs, most notably at the Pont Saint-Michel in the center of Paris and near the Prefecture of Police, very close to Notre Dame de Paris.\n\nDuring the night, a massacre took place in the courtyard of the police headquarters, killing tens of victims. In the Palais des Sports, then in the \"Palais des Expositions of Porte de Versailles\", detained Algerians, many by now already injured, [became] systematic victims of a 'welcoming committee'. In these places, considerable violence took place and prisoners were tortured. Men would be dying there until the end of the week. Similar scenes took place in the Coubertin stadium... The raids, violence and drownings would be continued over the following days. For several weeks, unidentified corpses were discovered along the banks of the river. The result of the massacre may be estimated to at least 200 dead.\n\nIn 1961, the police prefecture spoke only of \"2 persons shot dead\". Following historian Jean-Luc Einaudi's testimony during the Papon trial in the late-1990s, left-wing police Minister Jean-Pierre Chevènement ordered the opening of parts of the archives. The resulting Mandelken Report, based on the investigation of these partial records, counted 32 dead. Einaudi then published an op-ed in \"Le Monde\" on 20 May 1998, contesting this official figure, criticizing both the methodology of the report and the consulted records. He called attention to the fact that many of the records had been destroyed. A report that Papon had prepared for Interior Minister Roger Frey, the prime minister, and the head of government, Charles de Gaulle, was not included in the consulted records. In addition, the Mandelken report ignored the massacre that had taken place in the courtyard of the Police prefecture, and Papon's name itself appeared nowhere in the report. Einaudi concluded his op-ed stating that: \"on the night of 17 October 1961 there had been a massacre perpetrated by the police forces acting on the orders of Maurice Papon.\" Papon subsequently filed a lawsuit in February 1999, a courtsuit against him, because of this sentence, alleging defamation of a public servant.\n\nIn the meanwhile, the state acknowledged in 1998 the massacre and spoke of 40 dead.\n\nResponding to Papon's request, the court gave an ambiguous judgement. It stated that Einaudi had \"defamed\" Papon, but that Einaudi had acted on \"good faith\", and praised the \"seriousness and quality\" of Einaudi's research. Both Papon and Einaudi were thus vindicated by the court's judgement.\n\nThe French government commission in 1998 claimed only 48 people died. Historian Jean-Luc Einaudi (\"La Bataille de Paris\", Paris: Seuil, 1991) asserted that as many as 200 Algerians had been killed. The historian Jean-Paul Brunet found satisfactory evidence for the murder of 31 Algerians, while suggesting that a number of up to 50 actual victims was credible.\n\nThis contradicts David Assouline, who in 1997 was granted limited access to consult part of the police documents (which were supposed to be classified until 2012) by Minister of Culture Catherine Trautmann (PS). He found a list of 70 persons killed, while the texts confirmed Einaudi's comments that the magistrates who had been called on by the victims' families to consider these incidents had systematically acquitted the policemen. According to \"Le Monde\" in 1997, which quoted the director of the , the register listed 90 persons by the second half of October.\n\nIn a 2001 article in \"Esprit\", Paul Thibaud discussed the controversy between Jean-Luc Einaudi, who spoke of 200 killed on 17 October, and 325 killed by the police during the autumn of 1961, and Jean-Paul Brunet, who gave an estimate of only 50 (and 160 dead, possible homicide victims, who passed through the IML medico-legal institute during the four months between September and December 1961). Although criticizing Einaudi on some points, Thibaud also underlined that Brunet had consulted only police archives and took the registers of the IML medico-legal institute at face value. Based on other sources, Thibaud pointed out (as did Brunet) that administrative dissimulation about the dead had taken place, and that the IML could not be relied upon as sole source. Thibaud concluded that Einaudi's work made it possible to give an estimate of 300 Algerian victims of murder (whether by police or others) between 1 September and 31 December 1961.\n\nThe events surrounding the massacre and its death toll were largely unknown for decades. There was almost no media coverage at the time. These events remained unknown in part because they were overshadowed in the French media by the Charonne Metro Station massacre on 8 February 1962 whose victims were not only Algerians, but also French members of the French Communist Party.\n\nOn 26 October 1961, Georges Montaron, editor of \"Témoignage Chrétien\", Claude Bourdet, editor of \"France Observateur\", Emmanuel d'Astier de la Vigerie, editor of \"Libération\", Avril, editor of \"Télérama\", parish priest Lochard, Jean-Marie Domenach, editor of \"Esprit\" magazine, Jean Schaeffert and André Souquière organized in the \"Maison de la Mutualité\" a meeting to \"protest against police violence and the repression of the 17 October 1961 demonstration in Paris\".\n\nA few days later, some anonymous policemen published a text called \"A group of republican policemen declare...\" (\"Un groupe de policiers républicains déclarent...\") on 31 October, stating:\n\nWhat happened on 17 October 1961 and in the following days against the peaceful demonstrators, on which no weapons were found, morally forces us to bring our testimony and to alert public opinion... All guilty people must be punished. The punishment must be extended to all of the responsible people, those who give orders, those who feign of letting it happen, whatever their high office may be... Among the thousands of Algerians brought to the Parc des Expositions of the Porte de Versailles, tens were killed by blows from rifle butts and pickaxe handles... In one of the extremity of the Neuilly bridge, groups of policemen on one side, CRS on the other, moved slowly towards each other. All the Algerians captured in this huge trap were knocked out and systematically thrown in the Seine. A good hundred people were subjected to this treatment... [In the Parisian police headquarters], torturers threw their victims by tens in the Seine which flows only a few meters from the courtyard, to keep them from being examined by the forensic scientists. Not before having taken their watches and money. Mr. Papon, prefect of the police, and Mr. Legay, general director of the municipal police, assisted to these horrible scenes... These indisputable facts are only a small part of what has happened in these last days and what continues to happen. They are known by the municipal police. The extortions committed by the harkis, the district special brigades, the \"brigades des aggressions et violences\" are not secret any more. The little information given by the newspapers is nothing compared to the truth... We do not sign this text and sincerely regret it. We observe, not without sadness, that the current circumstances do not allow us to do so... \n\nThe anonymous authors remained so until the late 1990s although Maurice Papon tried to discover them. In February 1999, its main author, Emile Portzer, former member of the National Front resistance organization during the war, testified in favor of historian Jean-Luc Einaudi during the trial which followed Papon's suit against him (won by Einaudi). On 1 January 1962, Papon declared to the police forces under his orders: \n\nOn 17 October you won... the victory against Algerian terrorism... Your moral interests have been successfully defended, since the aim of the police prefecture's opponents to put in place an investigation committee have been defeated.\n\nOn 8 February 1962, another demonstration against the OAS, which had been prohibited by the state, was repressed at Charonne metro station (). Nine members of the CGT trade union, most of them French Communist Party members, were killed by the police forces, directed by Maurice Papon under the same government, with Roger Frey as Minister of Interior, Michel Debré as Prime Minister and Charles de Gaulle as president, who did all they could to \"dissimulate the scale of the 17 October crime\" (Jean-Luc Einaudi). The funerals on 13 February 1962 of the nine persons killed (among them, Fanny Dewerpe) were attended by hundreds of thousands of people. On 8 February 2007 the Place du 8 Février 1962, a square near the metro station, was dedicated by Bertrand Delanoë, the mayor of Paris, after sprays of flowers were deposited at the foot of a commemorative plaque installed inside the metro station where the killings occurred.\n\nAccording to James J. Napoli, coverage of the massacre by major British and American media sources, such as \"The Times\", \"TIME\" magazine and \"The New York Times\", downplayed the severity of the massacre as well as the Paris government's responsibility for the events.\n\nThe official death toll was initially three, before the French government acknowledged in 1998 that the massacre occurred and that a vague \"several dozen\" people were killed.\n\nNo one has been prosecuted for participation in the killings, because they fell under the general amnesty for crimes committed during the Algerian War. This included on one side French police and military personnel fighting for France; and on the other side various French-ethnic (pro-independence, often communist) and Algerian fighters, for attacks on civilian targets such as cafés, which killed 3,000 civilians.\n\nForty years after the massacre, in 2001, the event was officially acknowledged by the city of Paris with the placement and unveiling of a memorial plaque near the Pont Saint-Michel. This resulted from work by the Socialist Party local government. At the unveiling of the plaque, Bertrand Delanoë, the Socialist Party Mayor of Paris, cited the need for France to come to terms with this event in order to move forward with unity. Centrist and right-wing politicians, as well as the police union, objected to the plaque on various grounds (increased threat of civil unrest, alleged tolerance of terrorism, and encouragement of disrespect for the police). On the other hand, historian Olivier LeCour Grandmaison, president of the 17 October 1961 Association, declared to \"L'Humanité\" that \n\nif a step forward had been taken with the decision of the city of Paris to put a commemorative plaque on the Pont Saint-Michel, [he] deplored that the text which was chosen for it invokes neither the idea of a crime against humanity nor the responsibility of the author of the crime, the state. Thus, in no case does this Parisian initiative exempt the highest national authorities from taking responsibility. In addition, if [former Socialist Prime minister] Lionel Jospin personally expressed himself last year [in 2000] by speaking of \"tragic events\", neither the police's responsibility in the crime nor that of those politically responsible at the time have been clearly established, much less officially condemned. \n\nOn 17 October 2012, President François Hollande acknowledged the 1961 massacre of Algerians in Paris.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52108518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52108518", "title": "Pennsylvania Anatomy Act of 1883", "text": "Pennsylvania Anatomy Act of 1883\n\nThe Pennsylvania Anatomy Act of 1883 is legislation of the State of Pennsylvania to facilitate medical education. This act allowed teachers and students to be able to dissect bodies without have to resort to buying from grave robbers or buying body parts. This act was written to prevent grave robbing, and to even out the availability of corpses.\n\nPrior to the Pennsylvania Anatomy Act being passed in 1883, many other dissection acts were passed in America. These acts included the Massachusetts Act of 1784, which stated that those that died or were executed due to dueling may be dissected. The next act was an act in New York called An Act to Prevent the Odious Practice of Digging up and Removing, for the Purpose of Dissection, Dead Bodies Interred in Cemeteries or Burial Places. This act was one of the first acts in America to prevent grave robbing for dissection, the first section says that anyone convicted of removing a dead body for the purpose of dissection, intending to dissect, dissecting or assisting with the dissection shall suffer consequences. So that learning about anatomy using dissection is not harmed when someone is convicted of murder, arson, or burglary they are then either sentenced to death, and the judges may decide that the offender's body be used for dissection or their body is buried. Then in 1831 Massachusetts passed an act saying that the bodies of the unclaimed deceased be delivered to the anatomists, under certain restrictions. In 1835 Missouri allowed executed slaves along with convicted criminal's bodies to be dissected. The 1854 Bone Bill in New York allowed the unclaimed bodies of criminals or the homeless to be sent to medical schools.\n\nIn 1867 the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and the county of Allegheny in Pennsylvania, passed an act, that gave each medical school, in the public and private sectors, within Philadelphia and Allegheny county Pennsylvania the same amount of unclaimed bodies per student. Therefore, a larger medical school would get more bodies than a small school of 20 students, such as if a school were to have 200 medical students they would get 50 bodies, but if a school were to have 25 medical students they would receive 12-13 bodies. If a person claimed that they wanted to be buried prior to death, then their body would not be allowed to be given to these medical schools, they would instead be buried despite being unclaimed. Another part of this act punished the anatomists if they were caught selling the spare bodies or spare body parts, the same punishment applied for the grave robbers and someone caught buying the spare bodies or spare body parts. This act later on was made into seven sections and would include all of the counties of Pennsylvania, instead of one county and a major city, and would become what we know today as the Pennsylvania Anatomy Act of 1883.\n\nThe Act stated that all bodies used for medical advancements must be obtained in a legal manner, through the state, so as to prevent the unethical obtaining of corpses. The Act also allowed for the use of unclaimed bodies for medical research.\n\nSection One of the Act specified the creation of a board of scholars that would be tasked with the delivery of corpses. This board of scholars would be made up of no less than 25 scholars elected by each of the dentistry, surgery, and medical schools within the Pennsylvania Commonwealth. The board would be tasked with the record keeping of each corpse delivered, and who the corpse was delivered to.\n\nSpecifications for the distribution of corpses were put into place by Section Three of the Act. Bodies would first be delivered to schools in need of bodies for demonstrations and lectures. Bodies remaining after the initial need was met were to be allotted based on the number of students in each class.\n\nSection Five of the bill stated that the distribution of corpses illegally over Commonwealth boundaries would be considered body trafficking. It was further specified that such trafficking would be charged as a misdemeanor offense, resulting in up to a 200 dollar fine or a one-year sentence in prison.\n\nMembers of the board who do not perform their duties as required will be subject to up to a 500 dollar fine, as specified by Section Seven of the Act.\n\nThe initial Act was accepted by the House of Representatives, but opposed in the senate by one senator who claimed that the Act was, \"unworthy of the age in which [they] live\". This opposition caused the Act to be rewritten and re-submitted for consideration. The act was then rewritten, and it was passed in both the House and Senate in the year 1883.\n\nHarris, D. Fraser. \"History of the Events Which Led to the Passing of the British Anatomy Act, A.D. 1832.\" Canadian Medical Association Journal 10.3 (1920): 283-84. NCBI. Web. 24 Oct. 2016. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1523813/?page=1>.\n\nForbes, W. S. History of the Anatomy Act of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia: The Philadelphia Medical Publishing Company, 1898. PDF. <http://jdc.jefferson.edu/anatomy_act_of_penn/1/>.\n\nScovil, Lindsay. \"A Market for Death.\" A-market-for-death. Lindsay Scovil, 2015. Web. 23 Oct. 2016. <http://www.marketfordeath.com/timelineofanatomyacts>.\n\n\"Passage of an Anatomy Act in Pennsylvania.: An Act for the Promotion of Medical Science, and to Prevent the Traffic in Human Bodies.\" Chicago Medical Examiner (1860-1871) 8.5 (1867): 300-02.American Periodicals Series Online [ProQuest]. Web. 24 Oct. 2016.\n"}
{"id": "2644711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2644711", "title": "Perth Mint", "text": "Perth Mint\n\nThe Perth Mint is Australia's official bullion mint and wholly owned by the Government of Western Australia. Established on 20 June 1899, two years before Australia's Federation in 1901, the Perth Mint was the last of three Australian colonial branches of the United Kingdom's Royal Mint (after the now-defunct Sydney Mint and Melbourne Mint) intended to refine gold from the gold rushes and to mint gold sovereigns and half-sovereigns for the British Empire. Along with the Royal Australian Mint, which produces coins of the Australian dollar for circulation, the Perth Mint is the older of the two mints issuing coins that are legal tender in Australia.\n\nAfter the foundation stone was laid in 1896 by Sir John Forrest, the Mint opened on 20 June 1899. At that time, Western Australia's population was growing rapidly (23,000 in 1869 and 180,000 in 1900) due largely to the discovery of rich gold deposits in Coolgardie, Kalgoorlie and Murchison areas of the colony.\n\nAs there was very little money available in Perth for which miners could exchange gold to pay for goods, the Diggers who flocked to the then colony of Western Australia in huge numbers from other parts of Australia and from around the world, deposited their raw gold at the Perth Mint where it was minted into gold coins.\n\nAlthough Federation occurred in 1901, the Mint remained under the jurisdiction of Great Britain until 1 July 1970, when it became a statutory authority of the Government of Western Australia.\n\nFrom 1899 to 1931, the Perth Mint struck more than 106 million gold sovereigns, and nearly 735,000 half-sovereigns (intermittently between 1900 and 1920), for use as currency in Australia and throughout the British Empire. The Mint stopped making gold sovereigns when Britain abandoned the gold standard in 1931. Nevertheless, the refinery remained busy as staff turned their skills to making fine gold bullion bars. But it was not long before the Mint was involved again in the production of coins. During World War II, the Perth Mint began minting the Australian coinage from base metals. Up until the end of 1983, the Perth Mint also manufactured much of Australia's lower-denomination coin currency. \n\nThe Perth Mint achieved \"arguably the purest of all gold\" in 1957 when the mint produced a proof plate of six nines - 999.999 parts of gold per thousand. The Royal Mint was so impressed that it ordered some of the gold as the benchmark for its own standards.\n\nThe Mint's new direction was formalised in 1987 with the creation of Gold Corporation by a State Act of Parliament. Under a unique agreement with the Commonwealth of Australia's Department of the Treasury, the Mint's new operator was empowered to mint and market gold, silver and platinum Australian legal tender coinage to investors and collectors worldwide. Prime Minister Bob Hawke launched the Australian Nugget Gold Coins Series in 1987. The first day's trading yielded sales of 155,000 ounces of gold worth $103 million, well above the sales target of 130,000 ounces to the end of June. Today, the Perth Mint is a member of an elite group of world mints whose pure gold, silver and platinum legal tender coins are trusted without question. Like the Australian Nugget, its Australian Kookaburra Silver Coin Series and Australian Lunar Gold and Silver Coin Series are extensively sought after by bullion investors worldwide.\n\nUp to 2000, the Mint's refined gold output totalled 4,500 tonnes, representing 3.25% of the total weight of gold produced by humankind. This is about the current holdings of gold bullion in the United States Treasury's Fort Knox Bullion Depository.\n\nIn 2003, the Perth Mint officially opened an 8,400 square metre state-of-the-art manufacturing facility next door to its original limestone building. Dominating the Mint's heritage precinct, these two important buildings are powerful symbols of more than 100 years of minting excellence in Western Australia.\n\nIn October 2011, the Perth Mint created the world's largest, heaviest and most valuable gold coin, breaking the record previously held by the Royal Canadian Mint. The coin is approximately in diameter and thick, and made of of 99.99% pure gold. It features, on the obverse side, the effigy of Elizabeth II, and a red kangaroo on the reverse side. It is legal tender in Australia with face value 1 million, but at the time of minting it was valued at 53.5 million.\n\nToday, the Mint continues to provide refining and other services to the gold industry and manufactures many coin related numismatic items for investors and coin collectors. It is responsible for manufacturing and marketing most of Australia's legal tender precious metal coins, including proof quality Australian Nugget gold coins, Australian Platinum Koala coins, Australian Silver Kookaburra coins, Swan series coins and bullion.\n\nIn January 2018, the Perth Mint announced it would produce a blockchain based cryptocurrency backed by its own bullion (a digital gold currency) in approximately the next 12 to 18 months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49270263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49270263", "title": "Prince Albert's Model Cottage", "text": "Prince Albert's Model Cottage\n\nPrince Albert’s Model Cottage was the name given to a model dwelling designed in the mid-19th century to offer an alternative form of accommodation for poor families in England. It was supported by Prince Albert, husband of Queen Victoria.\n\nThe original Prince Albert's Model Cottage, also known as the Prince Consort Model Lodge, was built by the Society for Improving the Conditions of the Labouring Classes (SICLC) for display at the 1851 Great Exhibition in Hyde Park, London. Prince Albert, who had considerable interest in improved housing for the poor, was president of the Society. The Society wanted to have the model dwelling built on the Exhibition grounds, but the Exhibition commissioners were unwilling to have an exhibit that addressed such social issues. With the intervention of Prince Albert it was agreed that the building could be constructed close to, but not on, the Exhibition grounds, and this was done at the Knightsbridge Cavalry Barracks. At the conclusion of the Great Exhibition the cottage was dismantled and rebuilt in Kennington. By one estimate over 250,000 people visited the cottage, including Queen Victoria and Charles Dickens. The final room visited contained pamphlets and books on model dwellings, as well as the architectural plans for the building through which the visitor had just walked, together with plans of other model dwellings built elsewhere by the society.\n\nThe model cottage was designed by Henry Roberts, who was honorary architect to the SICLC, and, like the Prince Consort, was interested in upgrading housing for the working class. The cottage demonstrated at the Great Exhibition was possibly conceived as a model for larger blocks of flats (designs for a three-storey version were prepared). It was designed to house four families, with two flats, or apartments, on each level. Roberts indicated that the design was aimed at “the class of mechanical and manufacturing operatives who usually reside in towns or in their immediate vicinity”. Each flat had a living room, with a built-in cupboard heated by the fireplace that was also \"well contrived equally to cook the family meals at midday and to warm the feet of the family group at eve\", a kitchen/scullery, three bedrooms and a toilet. Bathrooms were not usually provided in houses built in England at this time. Three bedrooms were included for the sake of \"decency\" so that children of the same sex would not have to share a room.\nThe most notable external feature was the covered central staircase to give access to the two upper flats. Hollow bricks were used for construction of the building. These were claimed to be sound resistant, damp resistant, non-porous, and cheap to make. The internal face of the walls was smooth and plastering was considered unnecessary.\n\nAlthough built outside the main Great Exhibition area, the Prince Albert cottage exhibit was awarded one of the 170 Council Medals, the Exhibition’s highest award. The design provided a catalyst for further work on model buildings and Roberts and the Society circulated several publications on the topic, including \"“The Dwellings of the Labouring Classes”\".\n\nIn 1852 the cottage was rebuilt in Kennington Park, south of the River Thames, and housed two park attendants and a cottage museum. Subsequently it was occupied by the park superintendent and since 2003 has been the headquarters of the Trees for Cities charity. The design was used in several other locations, including Stepney and Kensington in London and Abbots Langley and Hertford, both in Hertfordshire. However, despite benefiting from the abolition of Britain's brick tax in 1850, and while a success with the public, the cottages were not a commercial success, although the \"Spectator\" had calculated that a return on capital of between five and seven percent per annum would be possible. The innovative use of hollow bricks was also never widely copied.\n\nList of existing model dwellings\n"}
{"id": "23202098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23202098", "title": "Qays–Yaman war (793–796)", "text": "Qays–Yaman war (793–796)\n\nBetween 792–793 and 796 a Qays-Yaman war (also referred to as the War of the Watermelon) took place in Palestine and Transjordan between the northern Arab tribal federation of Mudhar, also called Nizar or Qays, and the southern tribal confederation of Yaman and the latter's Abbasid allies. The conflict may have begun as early as 787/88, though specific outbreaks of the war are largely dated to 793 and 796. Some violence by Bedouin raiders in the Judean Desert also erupted in 797, though it is not clear if this was directly related to the Qaysi-Yamani conflict.\n\nIn the 8th century, Palestine and Transjordan were functioning as two administrative districts: Jund Filastin and Jund al-Urdunn. Jund Filastin stretched from Rafah to Lajjun, encompassing much of the coastal plain of Palestine and included Samaria and Mount Hebron, while Jund al-Urdunn consisted of the Galilee, Jabal Amil, and most of Transjordan (east of the Jordan River). Both districts were a part of the larger province of Bilad ash-Sham of the Abbasid Caliphate. The Abbasids annexed Bilad ash-Sham after defeating the Umayyad dynasty in 750. The capital of the Caliphate was subsequently moved from Damascus to Baghdad, and Palestine consequently lost its central position in the state, becoming a distant district whose affairs were not as closely monitored or regulated as they were under the Umayyads. The Abbasids were also facing difficulties suppressing rebellions throughout the Caliphate at the time of the intertribal hostilities in Palestine. Various Arab tribes populated the regions of Palestine and Transjordan and formed confederations. The Mudhar (also referred to as Qays or Nizar) faction, led by Amir ibn Umara al-Murri, represented the northern tribes, while the Yamani faction represented the southern tribes. Ibrahim ibn Salih, the governor of Bilad ash-Sham and a cousin of the caliph al-Mahdi, regularly dealt with the affairs in Jund Filastin. He and his aide, Ishaq ibn Ibrahim tended to favor the Yamani tribe in its disputes with the Mudhar.\n\nAccording to an account by a Christian source from the time, the towns of Gaza, Bayt Jibrin, Ascalon in Jund Filastin and Sariphaea in Jund al-Urdunn were destroyed in 788, or during the reign of Patriarch Elias II (r. 770–797), during the hostilities between the Abbasids and a force of rebels commanded by Yahya ibn Irmiya, a Jew from Transjordan.\n\nAccording to 9th-century historian al-Tabari, clashes between the Arab tribes of Palestine had begun in 790/91, while 15th-century Ibn Taghribirdi wrote that the conflict began as early as 787/88. The 12th-century Syriac Orthodox patriarch, Michael the Syrian and 13th-century historian Ibn al-Athir asserted that the conflict started in 792/93. According to the latter, hostilities commenced following an incident where a member of the northern Banu al-Qayn tribe came to grind his wheat at a location in the al-Balqa region of Transjordan and stole marrows and watermelons from a southern tribesman (either from the Banu Judham or Banu Lakhm tribes). Casualties became considerable as tribes from the Golan Heights and Jund al-Urdunn joined the war as allies of the Yamani coalition. The strife was brought to an end and violence calmed down by 29 December 793, after decisive intervention by the new caliph Harun al-Rashid and his brothers.\n\nIn 796, battles between the Mudhar and Yamani tribes broke out again for unspecified reasons. It is presumed by historian Moshe Gil that the northern Mudhar tribes instigated the hostilities and that the focus of their attacks was directed not only against the Yamani federation, but the Abbasid state itself. Harun al-Rashid viewed this as a rebellion and dispatched a large army headed by Ja'far ibn Yahya al-Barmaki to quell the revolt. Battles between the two sides erupted throughout Palestine, and during a major confrontation near Jerusalem, Ibn al-Athir wrote that 800 Yamani tribesmen were killed, while 600 (or 300) Mudhari tribesmen were killed. According to a 10th-century Christian source, one side suffered 80 dead and the other side, 60. According to Gil, al-Barmaki \"put down the rebels with an iron hand and much blood was spilled.\" Al-Barmaki assigned Issa ibn al-Akki as his representative for the whole province of Bilad ash-Sham, while he appointed Salih bin Sulayman as his representative in al-Balqa. Thus, Jund al-Urdunn, which had normally been under the authority of the governor of Damascus, gained separate administration. This was a result of al-Barmaki's belief that Transjordan was the epicenter of the rebellion.\n\nThe Abbasid governor of Jund Filastin, Harthama ibn A'yan, was reassigned to Egypt in 796. During and after the war, anarchy became widespread in Palestine. In addition, the main roads of the district were rendered impassable due to the presence of hostile Bedouin bands. Various Arab tribes that previously attempted to raid the Christian monasteries of the Judean Desert, but were prevented from doing so by the state authorities, took advantage of the security vacuum and attacked several of them. The St. Chariton Monastery was robbed and on 20 March 796 or 19 March 797, 20–28 monks at Mar Saba were reportedly suffocated to death or cremated, while around 100 monks were assaulted. The monasteries of St. Cyriacus, St. Theodosius and St. Euthymius were also raided at some point during or after the hostilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54648315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54648315", "title": "Quba Apple Festival", "text": "Quba Apple Festival\n\nApple Festival () is a cultural festival that is celebrated annually in Guba, Azerbaijan on the days of harvesting apples.\n\nIn Azerbaijan this event was organized for the first time in 2012. The festival features Azerbaijani fruit-cuisine mainly the apples from Quba. Although the holiday is called \"Apple Feast\", it is dedicated not only to apples, but to other fruit crops.\n\nOn the days of the holiday, in the city of Quba - the horticultural center of Azerbaijan, exhibitions are held where gardeners demonstrate different varieties of apples and various products from them.\n\nGoychay Pomegranate Festival\n"}
{"id": "12278964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12278964", "title": "Revelation Generation", "text": "Revelation Generation\n\nRevelation Generation (Rev Gen) was an annual Christian music festival in Frenchtown, New Jersey. The festival was first held on August 13, 2005, and was held annually held on the Saturday and Sunday of Labor Day weekend through 2010. The 2011 event was canceled, and the official website indicates the festival is on an indefinite hiatus.\n\nFriday September 4\n\n\nSaturday September 5\n\n\nSeptember 4\n\n\nSeptember 5\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11185952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11185952", "title": "Sanja Matsuri", "text": "Sanja Matsuri\n\n, or Sanja Festival, is one of the three great Shinto festivals in Tokyo. It is considered one of the wildest and largest. The festival is held in honor of Hinokuma Hamanari, Hinokuma Takenari, and Hajino Nakatomo, the three men who established and founded the Sensō-ji Buddhist temple. Sanja Matsuri is held on the third weekend of every May at Asakusa Shrine. Its prominent parades revolve around three \"mikoshi\" (portable shrines referenced in the festival's name), as well as traditional music and dancing. Over the course of three days, the festival attracts 1.5 to 2 million locals and tourists every year.\n\nLike many Japanese festivals, Sanja Matsuri is a religious celebration. It is a weekend-long Shinto festival that is dedicated to the \"kami\" (spirits) of three men. It is believed that two fishermen—brothers named Hinokuma Hamanari and Hinokuma Takenari—found a statuette of the Bodhisattva Kannon caught in a fishing net in the Sumida River on the early morning of March 18, 628. The third man, a wealthy landlord named Hajino Nakatomo, heard about the discovery, approached the brothers and converted them to Buddhism. The three men then devoted their lives to the Buddhist faith and consecrated the statue in a small temple. This temple, now known as the Sensō-ji, currently houses the Kannon statue and is the oldest temple in Tokyo.\n\nThe Sanja Matsuri appears to have many forms that date back as early as the 7th century, as well as several names such as \"Kannon Matsuri\" and \"Asakusa Matsuri\". Sanja Matsuri's present day form was established during the Edo period. In 1649, \"shōgun\" Tokugawa Iemitsu commissioned the construction of Asakusa Shrine, a Shinto shrine dedicated to the three \"kami\". The existence of this shrine helped to solidify the festival's importance as well as its current structure and organization.\n\nReligious in origin, Sanja Matsuri is primarily a festival of celebration. The atmosphere around Asakusa during the weekend of the festival is charged and energetic. People continuously flood the streets surrounding the Sensō-ji and flutes, whistles, chanting and \"taiko\" (traditional Japanese drums) can be heard throughout the district.\n\nThe festival's main attractions are three Asakusa Shrine-owned \"mikoshi\" that appear on the third and final day of the festival. These three elaborate, black lacquered-wood shrines are built to act as miniature, portable versions of Asakusa Shrine. Decorated with gold sculptures and painted with gold leaf, each \"mikoshi\" weighs approximately one ton and cost ¥40 million ($390,760 in 2008) to construct. They are carried on four long poles lashed together with ropes, and each needs approximately 40 people dispersed evenly to safely carry them. Throughout the day, a total of about 500 people participate in carrying each shrine.\n\nBecause of the importance of these three \"mikoshi\", they are spectacles as they are carried through the streets. The areas immediately surrounding each shrine are busy with people, and as they are carried, they are shaken and bounced vehemently. This action is believed to intensify the power of the \"kami\" that are seated in the shrines and helps to bestow good luck upon their respective neighborhoods. It is not unusual for there to be someone standing on the poles supporting the \"mikoshi\" shouting and waving in order to help direct the people carrying the shrine. This sense of direction can be essential when trying to keep the one ton \"mikoshi\" from accidentally colliding with street-side shops and causing considerable damage.\n\nWhile the three primary \"mikoshi\" are the most important objects roaming the streets during the Sanja Matsuri, approximately 100 other smaller \"mikoshi\" are paraded through the neighborhood on Saturday. Of these shrines, several are solely carried by women or small children.\n\nThough not a part of the festivities, the official start of the Sanja Matsuri begins on Thursday with an important religious ceremony. This ceremony requires Asakusa Shrine's head priest to perform a ritual that moves the enshrined \"kami\" of the three men at Asakusa Shrine to the three \"mikoshi\" that will be paraded around the Asakusa during the weekend. By opening the small doors located on each \"mikoshi\" (the interior is obscured to the public by a small cotton curtain), the three spirits are invited into the miniature shrines where they will reside for the duration of the festival.\n\nThe festival's more publicized beginning starts on Friday when the is held. This famous 19-block grand procession down Yanagi Street and Nakamise-dōri to Asakusa Shrine is an event that is used to energize the community. It is most known for its participants' lavish costumes, such as heron-hooded dancers, geisha and city officials wearing \"hakama\" (traditional Japanese clothing). Musicians, performers and dancers also parade down the streets of Asakusa in traditional Japanese attire during the procession. In the evening, six \"mikoshi\" from the most central neighborhoods are sent parading through the streets on the shoulders of several dozen people.\n\nOn the following day, Saturday, approximately 100 \"mikoshi\" from the 44 Asakusa districts gather at the Kaminarimon. They are then paraded through Nakamise-dōri and stop at the Hōzōmon where they pay their respects to Kannon, the Goddess of Mercy. Afterwards, the \"mikoshi\" are carried to Asakusa Shrine where Shinto priests bless and purify them for the coming year. When the ceremony is completed, they are then carried back and paraded through their respective neighborhoods.\n\nSanja Matsuri's most important events occurs on the following Sunday. The procession of the three Asakusa Shrine-owned \"mikoshi\" begin their march down Nakamise-dōri toward the Kaminarimon early Sunday morning. These three elaborate shrines honor and represent the three men responsible for founding the Sensō-ji. During this final day of the festival, these important \"mikoshi\" are split up in order to visit and bestow blessing to all 44 districts of downtown and residential Asakusa. When evening falls, the three shrines find their way back to Asakusa Shrine in another grand procession that lasts late into the night.\n\nIn addition to the traditional events, Sanja Matsuri has several other popular draws. For example, festival goers can visit hundreds of shops found in the Nakamise, a street connecting the Kaminarimon and the Hōzōmon. Many small food stands are also erected in the surrounding areas for the entire weekend. Yakuza members also proudly show off their tattoos.\n\nOther spectacles that draw crowds are the Geisha and \"taiko\" performances that take place at specific times throughout the weekend. On Saturday and Sunday, Geisha that don their traditional attire put on performances from 1–3 p.m. on the second floor of the Asakusa Kenban. These performances, which require visitors to purchase tickets, have been ranked as one of the 10 best Geisha shows in all of Japan. On Sunday afternoon, members of the Nihon Taiko Dojo, a prominent Tokyo \"taiko\" academy, perform a free half-hour traditional music show at Asakusa Shrine.\n\nThough there are many activities during Sanja Matsuri that are not time dependent, there are a few events that start and stop at specific times throughout the weekend.\n\n"}
{"id": "4710904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4710904", "title": "Staatstheater am Gärtnerplatz", "text": "Staatstheater am Gärtnerplatz\n\nThe Staatstheater am Gärtnerplatz (\"State Theatre at Gärtnerplatz\"), commonly called the Gärtnerplatztheater, is an opera house and opera company in Munich. (The \"Gärtnerplatz\" is an urban square in the borough Ludwigsvorstadt-Isarvorstadt.) Designed by Michael Reiffenstuel, it opened on 4 November 1865 as the city's second major theatre after the National Theatre.\n\nAt times exclusively concerned with operetta, in recent years there have also been productions of opera, musicals and ballet. The scope of activities is similar to that of the Komische Oper in Berlin and the English National Opera in London.\n\nOne of the most active theatres in Germany, its season lasts from September to July and comprises more than 200 performances. The current intendant is Josef Ernst Köpplinger.\n\nIn 1863, a committee for the founding of a \"Volkstheater\" (people's theatre) formed. Ludwig II of Bavaria authorized a new building in the borough Isarvorstadt on 10 May 1864. It was designed by Franz Michael Reiffenstuel, who modelled it after the Nationaltheater in classicist style. The groundbreaking was on 25 August 1864, and the \"Richtfest\" was celebrated on 27 May 1865. The house was opened on 4 November 1865, with Duke Maximilian Joseph in Bavaria representing the king. The opening performance was a Prologue followed by an allegorical festive play (\"Festspiel\") by Hermann Schmid, \"Was wir wollen\" (What we want), with music by “.\n\nThe house, intended to show a different repertory than the court theatre, met with financial problems, under frequently changing directors. It had to be sold in March 1870, went first to the former director Friedrich Engelken, shortly thereafter to the architect and a partner, who bought it for the king, who acquired it officially in May 1870. It was reopened on 1 October 1870, directed by Hermann von Schmid. In 1873, Ludwig II granted it the name \"Königliches Theater am Gärtnerplatz\" (Royal theatre at the Gärtnerplatz). From 1877, directed the house and also the Hoftheater. The 1878/79 season was especially splendid but resulted in a large deficit. Perfall therefore focused on the Hoftheater, and was succeeded by Georg Lang. The theatre dropped the royal emblem and was called \"Theater am Gärtnerplatz\".\n\nIn 1913, the house was rebuilt by , who designed a new approach by the audience to the tiers, and installed more loges. During World War I, several charity performances were given for the \"Kriegsfonds\" and social organisations. In 1923, the house was acquired by the .\n\nWhen the theatre was built, the focus was on operetta, then a new genre. Singspiele, light operas with spoken dialogue in German, were also performed. When the house opened as a royal theatre, Jacques Offenbach's \"Salon Pitzelberger\" was played, titled \"Eine musikalische Soirée in der Vorstadt\" (A musical soiree in the suburb). Some operettas received their world premiere, including Carl Zeller's \"Die Fornarina\" on 18 October 1979, starring , Agnes Lang-Ratthey, } and Max Hofpauer. At the end of 1892, a \"Völkerschau\" (People's Show), \"Die Amazonen von Dahomey\", appeared with people from Africa for several weeks.\nFrom 1899, the theatre played mainly operettas and was regarded as one of the leading houses for the genre in Germany. Fanny zu Reventlow was engaged for a short time. Magda Schneider appeared at the end of the 1920s, complaining that she had to perform up to 48 times a month for a laughable salary (\"für eine lächerliche Gage bis zu achtundvierzig mal im Monat auf der Bühne\"). Some \"Possen\" and \"Volksstücke\" were presented until the 1930s, when the Nazi regime banned performances by Jewish writers, librettists and composers, and demanded that the theatre serve as a venue exclusively for operettas, as the operetta was an excellent means of familiarizing the ordinary citizen with the theater arts (\"ausschließlich zur Aufführungsstätte von Operetten, weil… die Operette ein sehr wesentliches Mittel ist, um den Volksgenossen an die Theaterkunst heranzuführen\").\nIn April 1937, the state of Bavaria became owner of the theatre. Plans to replace it with a new building were not realised, but the house was restored. The reopening of the only state operetta house in Germany on 20 November 1937 presented \"Die Fledermaus\" by Johann Strauss, with Adolf Hitler in the audience. From 1938, Fritz Fischer was the intendant and Peter Kreuder was the music director. Fischer showed a new style, influenced by Berlin revues and filmed operettas, with mass scenes, opulent staging and fast action. \"Gitta. Eine Fahrt ins Blaue\", a \"Lustspieloperette\" composed by Bernhard Stimmler and Carl Michalski, premiered on 18 May 1942, presenting the new style. \"Die lustige Witwe\" was also played, the declared favourite operetta of Hitler, who attended the theatre frequently.\n\nOn 21 April 1945, the theatre was badly damaged by the last bombing of Munich. Shortly after the war, performances were held at a Schornstraße location, and the restored theatre was reopened on 19 June 1948, playing \"Eine Nacht in Venedig\" by Johann Strauss. The Gärtnerplatztheater was able to secure Gustaf Gründgens to stage, as a guest, Offenbach's \"Die Banditen\" (The Bandits), first performed on 6 July 1949, with Gründgens playing a major role (\"mit intellektuell-komödantischer Bravour\"). The theatre played mainly popular works, including Millöcker's \"Der Bettelstudent\", Abraham's \"Viktoria und ihr Husar\", Kálmán's \"Die Csárdásfürstin\" with Sári Barabás in the title role, and \"Gräfin Mariza\", Zeller's \"Der Vogelhändler\", and Lehár's \"Das Land des Lächelns\", with as Mi and as Gustl. The world premiere of Burkhard's \"Das Feuerwerk\", staged by Erik Charell on 16 May 1950, was noticed well beyond Munich.\n\nFrom 1952 to 1955, , who also directed the Bayerische Staatsoper, led the theatre. He initiated the performance of operas, but with the ensemble of the State Opera. From 1955, the theatre was again independent and officially named Staatstheater am Gärtnerplatz, led by Willy Duvoisin (1955 to 1958), Arno Assmann (1959 to 1964), (1964 to 1983), (1983 to 1996), (1996 to 2007), (2007 to 2012) and (since 2012). The chief conductor is Anthony Bramall (since 2017), and the director of dance is Karl Alfred Schreiner (since 2012).\nIn 1955, the first musical was performed at the Gärtnerplatz, the German premiere of Harold Rome's \"Fanny\", with and Trude Hesterberg in leading roles. It was followed a year later by Cole Porter's \"Kiss Me, Kate\" with Johannes Heesters. Loewe's \"My Fair Lady\" was performed in 1984, staged by August Everding and with Cornelia Froboess as Eliza Doolittle. In 1957, the theatre showed the first performance in Munich of Stravinsky's opera \"The Rake's Progress\". World premieres of operas included 's \"Daniel\" in 1994, Avet Terterian's \"Das Beben\" in 2003, and \"Der Flaschengeist\" in 2014, among others.\n\nThe theatre was closed in 2012 for extensive restoration. It was reopened on 15 October 2017 with a gala performance followed by a new production of \"Die lustige Witwe\" on 19 October.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9697861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9697861", "title": "Suspension trauma", "text": "Suspension trauma\n\nSuspension trauma \"(Syn. \"orthostatic shock while suspended\")\", also known as harness hang syndrome (HHS), suspension syndrome, or orthostatic intolerance, is an effect which occurs when the human body is held upright without any movement for a period of time. If the person is strapped into a harness or tied to an upright object they will eventually suffer the central ischaemic response (commonly known as fainting). Fainting while remaining vertical increases the risk of death from cerebral hypoxia. Since there is no evidence that these effects are specifically due to trauma, or caused by the harness itself, climbing medicine authorities have argued against the terminology of suspension trauma or harness hang syndrome and instead termed this simply \"suspension syndrome\". \n\nPeople at risk of suspension trauma include people using industrial harnesses (fall arrest systems, abseiling systems, confined space systems), people using harnesses for sporting purposes (caving, climbing, parachuting, etc.), stunt performers, circus performers, and occupations that require the use of harnesses and suspension systems in general. Suspension shock can also occur in medical environments, for similar reasons.\n\nThe most common cause is accidents in which the person remains motionless suspended in a harness for longer periods of time. Motionlessness may have several causes including fatigue, hypoglycemia, hypothermia or traumatic brain injury.\n\nOnset of symptoms may be after just a few minutes, but usually occurs after at least 20 minutes of free hanging. Typical symptoms are pallor, sweating, shortness of breath, blurred vision, dizziness, nausea, hypotension and numbness of the legs. Eventually it leads to fainting, which may result in death due to oxygen deprivation of the brain.\n\nIf someone is stranded in a harness, but is not unconscious or injured, and has something to kick against or stand on (such as a rock ledge or caving leg-loops) it is helpful for them to use their leg muscles by pushing against it every so often, to keep the blood pumping back to the torso. If the person is stranded in mid-air or is exhausted, then keeping the legs moving can be both beneficial and rather dangerous. On the one hand, exercising the leg muscles will keep the blood returning to the torso, but on the other hand, as the movements become weaker the leg muscles will continue to demand blood yet they will become much less effective at returning it to the body, and the moment the victim ceases moving their legs, the blood will immediately start to pool. \"Pedaling an imaginary bicycle\" should only be used as a last-ditch effort to prolong consciousness, because as soon as the \"pedaling\" stops, fainting will shortly follow. If it is impossible to rescue someone immediately, then it is necessary to raise their legs to a sitting position, which can be done with a loop of rigging tape behind the knees or specialized equipment from a rescue kit.\n\nWhen workers are suspended in their safety harnesses for long periods, they may suffer from blood pooling in the lower body. This can lead to suspension trauma. Once a worker is back on the ground after a fall has been arrested on a fall protection system, a worker should be placed in the “W” position. The “W” position is where a worker sits upright on the ground with their back/chest straight and their legs bent so that their knees are in line with the bottom of their chin. For added stability, make sure that the worker’s feet stay flat on the ground. In this position, a KED board can still be used if there are any potential spinal injuries and a worker needs stabilization before transport.\n\nOnce the worker is in this position, they will need to stay in that position for at least 30 minutes. Try to leave the worker in this position until their symptoms begin to subside. The time in the “W” position will allow the pooled blood from the legs to be slowly re-introduced back into the body. By slowing the rate at which the pooled blood reaches different organs, you are giving the body more of an opportunity to filter the pooled blood and maintain internal homeostasis. http://www.rigidlifelines.com/blog/entry/suspension-traumasymptoms-and-treatment\n\nPrevention of suspension trauma is preferable to dealing with its consequences. Specific recommendations for individuals doing technical ropework are to avoid exhausting themselves so much that they end up without the energy to keep moving, and making sure everyone in a group is trained in single rope rescue techniques, especially the \"single rope pickoff\", a rather difficult technical maneuver that must be practiced frequently for smooth performance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16835971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16835971", "title": "São Paulo Fashion Week", "text": "São Paulo Fashion Week\n\nThe São Paulo Fashion Week is an clothing trade show held semi-annually in São Paulo. It is notable as \"Latin America's pre-eminent fashion event\" and it is considered the fifth largest fashion week after in the world behind New York, London, Paris and Milan. It has been controversial in the past because of a \"longstanding bias towards white models.\" In 2009 quotas were imposed that required that 10 percent of models to be \"black or indigenous\" as a way to foster equal opportunity.\n\n"}
{"id": "41929676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41929676", "title": "The Astronaut Wives Club", "text": "The Astronaut Wives Club\n\nThe Astronaut Wives Club is an American period drama television series developed by Stephanie Savage for ABC. It is based on Lily Koppel's book of the same name. The series tells the story of the wives of the Mercury Seven—America's first group of astronauts. Actresses Dominique McElligott, Yvonne Strahovski, Joanna García Swisher, Erin Cummings, Azure Parsons, Zoe Boyle, and Odette Annable play the roles of the astronauts' wives.\n\n\"The Astronaut Wives Club\" premiered on June 18, 2015. Following the completion of its run, the series' developer noted the series had been planned as a miniseries, telling a complete story.\nHowever, co-creator Stephanie Savage revealed in an interview with Variety that the producers were interested in making the series an anthology in case it gained a renewal for a second season. Possible seasons would have featured wives of men in the 1920s, wives of World War II soldiers, wives of men who work on Wall Street, and wives of men in the 1980s, among other possible scenarios.\n\nMill Creek Entertainment announced The Astronaut Wives Club on DVD.\n\n\n\n\"The Astronaut Wives Club\" was originally scheduled to be broadcast during the 2013–14 American television season. On February 5, 2014, ABC officially ordered a limited series of ten episodes. It was expected to premiere on July 24, 2014, but was pushed to spring 2015 to undergo changes. It premiered on June 18, 2015.\n\n\"The Astronaut Wives Club\" has received mixed reviews. Review aggregator site, Metacritic, has given the series a \"mixed or average\" score of 60 out of 100, based on 23 critics. On another review aggregator site, Rotten Tomatoes, it holds a 50% rating, based on 28 reviews. The critical consensus there reads: \"\"The Astronaut Wives\" relies on poorly paced storylines and clichéd characters, both used in service of a fact-based narrative that would have been better served in a more serious context.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38397714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38397714", "title": "The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour", "text": "The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour\n\nThe Mrs. Carter Show World Tour was the fifth concert tour by American singer Beyoncé. Announced in February 2013 with initial dates in Europe and North America, the tour contained seven legs and 132 shows. It began in Belgrade, Serbia on April 15, 2013 and concluded in Lisbon, Portugal on March 27, 2014. Its title is a reference to her marriage with American rapper Shawn \"Jay-Z\" Carter, who made multiple guest appearances throughout the tour.\n\nThe tour featured royal themes with the singer emulating different queens through her fashion for which she collaborated with numerous designers and fashion houses. The set list of the shows in 2013 included songs from all four studio albums of Beyoncé's solo career. After the release of her eponymous fifth studio album, the 2014 shows were changed to incorporate tracks from the album. The tour was lauded by music critics who praised Beyoncé for her energetic performances, dancing and vocal abilities.\n\nFollowing the announcement of the tour, all the tickets made available for the shows sold out, which prompted more dates to be added to the itinerary. The tour grossed $188.6 million in 2013 and the 2014 shows grossed $41.1 million, bringing the tour's total gross revenue to $229.7 million. This made The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour the highest-grossing female and solo tour of 2013. Performances of numerous songs from the tour were broadcast and behind-the-scenes footage was released.\n\nDuring a press conference for Super Bowl XLVII on January 31, 2013, Beyoncé revealed that she would make an announcement after her performance at the halftime show and added that \"fans should just stay tuned to see\". Beyoncé announced the tour and its name after her performance the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show on February 3. The tour's title refers to her marriage with Shawn 'Jay-Z' Carter. However, the official poster of the tour with the name written on it was leaked on the ticket's website Live Nation prior to the official announcement. It shows Beyoncé wearing a Victorian golden royal top and a crown, referencing Queen Elizabeth I. Rosie Swash of \"The Guardian\" described it as a \"visual stamp of authority\". Along with the tour's name, initial dates in Europe and North America were announced, and later more were added in Latin America, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nFollowing the announcement of the tour's title, Beyoncé was criticized by several critics and feminists alike for entitling it after her husband's name as she has been regarded as a feminist. Questions were raised about how Beyoncé agreed to be known as a bride of another celebrity person. During an interview with \"Vogue\", Beyoncé described herself as a \"modern-day feminist\" and further spoke about her decision to reference her husband's name: \"I feel like Mrs. Carter is who I am, but more bold and more fearless than I've ever been... It comes from knowing my purpose and really meeting myself once I saw my child. I was like, 'OK, this is what you were born to do'. The purpose of my body became completely different.\" After the second European leg was announced on December 11, 2013, a new poster was revealed and used for the promotion of all the newly added shows.\n\nThe concert at The O Arena in London was announced on February 3, along with a short advertisement for the tour; an extended version of the clip appeared in late February. It shows Beyoncé dressed with a golden corset and a royal gown with jewels. She is seen walking into a dance hall in slow-motion with several servants and a DJ, dressed as a jester tries to distract her. The end of the advertisement shows black-and-white snippets of behind-the-scenes footage of the video. Alexis L. Loinaz of E! compared her aristocratic look in the video to Marie Antoinette, Queen Elizabeth I, and Lady Gaga. In March 2013, Beyoncé posted a new poster for the tour on her official Facebook page showing her striking four different poses, wearing a blond wig, a white top and blue shorts. In May 2013, Beyoncé launched an online store for the tour in which different clothes were available for purchase. The following month, she added a limited edition to her Heat line of perfumes, titled Heat: The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour. Inspired by the tour, Beyoncé stated that the fragrance was meant to \"give them [fans] a special remembrance of this tour and... reflect the power, passion and playfulness I put into my performances\".\n\nOn April 24, 2013, it was announced by Beyoncé's publicist that all photographers except Beyoncé's personal photographer Frank Micelotta, were banned from the tour stating that \"no photo credentials\" will be present. The ban was interpreted as a reaction to the \"unflattering\" pictures from Beyoncé's Super Bowl XLVII halftime performance showing her \"jubilant exertions\", that appeared on websites such as Gawker and BuzzFeed. The pictures were not removed even after her publicist Yvette Noel-Schure asked the websites through an e-mail to change their articles, using \"some better photos\". On May 13, 2013, the general counsel of the National Press Photographers Association (NPPA) Mickey H. Osterreicher, wrote a letter to Noel-Schure on behalf of 19 other organizations requesting from him to \"immediately revise your guidelines to restore photo credentialing\" for the rest of the tour in Europe and the US. For the tour, the singer took part in \"Miss A Meal\", a food-donation campaign and supported the charity Goodwill during her tour, where fans were asked to bring food, clothes and household goods at the stops. Throughout the tour, an auction for the campaign was held by Beyoncé and her mother, Tina Knowles on the website Charitybuzz in which the auction value was $25,000. The winner got a chance to work behind the scenes of Beyoncé's concert in Los Angeles and assist Knowles in the wardrobe department, got a VIP ticket for the concert and had a personal meeting with the singer.\n\nEight hundred dancers auditioned to be included in Beyoncé's performance at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show and a selected group of them, consisting only of females, were chosen for the performance as well as for the tour. French dancing duo Les Twins also accompanied Beyoncé on stage performing street dances. Three backing singers The Mamas, and an eleven-piece female band who had also supported the singer during her previous tours performed during the concerts. Two stages were used during the performances: a main stage where the singer performed throughout most of the concert and a B-stage closer to the audience where she was transferred with a rope, flying over the crowd midway through the set, performing three songs there. The set list of the 2013 portion of the tour included approximately twenty five songs from Beyoncé's four solo studio albums: \"Dangerously in Love\" (2003), \"B'Day\" (2006), \"I Am... Sasha Fierce\" (2008), and \"4\" (2011). The majority of the songs originated from \"4\" – seven songs were performed from that album. Many of the tracks performed contained different choreographies and arrangements compared to the previous performances by the singer; several of them were intertwined with other artists' material. For the 2014 shows many of the previously performed songs were removed and eight new songs from Beyoncé's fifth self-titled studio album were added to the concert's set list.\n\nFor the 2013 shows, Beyoncé worked with multiple designers for the tour's costumes including Emilio Pucci, Riccardo Tisci from Givenchy, The Blonds, Julien MacDonald, Dean and Dan Caten (DSQUARED), creative director Tamara Ralph of Ralph & Russo who was personally requested by the singer to design an outfit, David Koma, Alon Livne, Vrettos Vrettakos designers from Kenzo, Gucci, Roberto Cavalli and Dennis Kolpodinos. For the performance at the 2013 Made in America, Beyoncé wore a new costume designed by Timothy White, accomponied with shoes made by Reed Krakoff. The outfit designed by DSQUARED was from their spring/summer 2013 collection at the \"Glamazon\" catwalk show and was inspired by models of the '90s. Several costumes were also designed by Emilio Pucci's Peter Dundas who described them as a \"modern take on glamour\", taking them from his fall/winter 2013 collection. He focused on the singer being able to perform the choreography during her performances. Stuart Weitzman designed the shoes for Beyoncé, her back-up dancers and band collaborating with stylists Ty Hunter, Raquel Smith, and Beyoncé's mother Tina Knowles. Weitzman created them in different colors with military elements. Beyoncé wanted Weitzman to focus on her being able to dance wearing the shoes without noticing they were on her feet. One of Beyoncé's costumes which was worn during the first concerts was a gold bodysuit designed by The Blonds embellished with golden breasts complete with a nipple detail. The costume was a collaboration between the group, Beyoncé, Knowles, and Hunter. It was hand embroidered in 600 hours with approximately 30,000 Swarovski crystals. According to The Blonds, it was meant to give the illusion of being covered in crystallized honey and reflect Beyoncé's personality for the tour. They were inspired by Beyoncé's songs of female empowerment and female nudes painted by Tamara de Lempicka. The costume received wide media and fan attention and divided critics' opinions. \"InStyle\"s Meghan Blalock described the costume as the \"most scandalous\" that the singer has worn in her career. For the 2014 shows, the singer wore numerous new designs collaborating again with DSQUARED, Givenchy, Pucci and Weitzman as well as with new designers such as Tom Ford, Versace and Karen Langley.\n\nBeyoncé's makeup for the tour focused on trying to emulate cosmic stars with the underlying themes based on the stratosphere. Other references used as inspiration for the makeup included: film noir, 60's London, cyber beauty, cosmic constellations, and felines. The tourbook for The Mrs. Carter Show was meant to artistically illustrate all the different visual aspects of the tour through multi-media collage and image manipulation. By using collage, Beyoncé's team created images inspired by the singer and her songs and image manipulation was explored, with photos being solarized, layered and stacked. With the tourbook, fans had an opportunity to \"bring a part of the tour home with them\", as Beyoncé's team stated. A dress created by Amato Haute Couture's Furne One which was worn by Beyoncé for the tour book was originally designed and worn by Estonian singer-songwriter Kerli during her \"Utopia\" EP photoshoot who praised the look after seeing it.\n\nThe concert included several costume changes during which video interludes were projected on the screen during the singer's absence. An 18th Century France influence was found in the white-powder makeup and the opening costume as well as a Louis XVI theme throughout the show with oversized wigs and bustiers. The dresses and looks were also noted to channel queens Marie Antionette, Cleopatra, and Elizabeth I by several critics. \"The Observer\"s Kitty Empire described the concert as a fashion show with a regal, \"Dangerous Liaisons\" theme. Jocelyn Vena of MTV News described the costumes as \"Eye-catching... dazzling... [and] provocative\". Rosa Silverman of \"The Daily Telegraph\" commented that Beyoncé was \"mesmerizing the crowds with her showstopping outfits... she took to the stage in a series of racy costumes that made no attempt to hide her famous curves.\" Erika Ramirez of \"Billboard\" commented that most of Beyoncé's \"stunning\" costumes were dazzled with sequins.\n\nThe concert opened with a pre-recorded video montage showing black and white footage of gothic architecture as well as dancers dressed in white, marching across a stage length screen, preparing to crown Beyoncé who was dressed as a queen. The montage continued as female dancers wearing hoop-skirt cages and masks started appearing on stage. The video wall raised afterwards and a brief pyrotechnics display began as Beyoncé appeared onstage standing for several seconds prior to the performance of \"Run the World (Girls)\" preceded by an extended timpani interlude. She sang the song while performing a choreography which included a routine of faux kicking her male dancers. \"End of Time\" followed with Beyoncé dancing as fireworks were also displayed on stage. \"Flaws and All\" was performed as the third song on the set list with Beyoncé dedicating it to her fan group, the BeyHive. \"If I Were a Boy\" was mashed with The Verve's song \"Bitter Sweet Symphony\" taking the latter's string motif and incorporating several lines. \"Get Me Bodied\" saw Beyoncé interacting with the audience through call and response, asking them to repeat \"Hey, Mrs. Carter\". \"Baby Boy\" was performed against a holographic background as Beyoncé and several female dancers performed synchronised moves in front of the screen which flashed realistic images of more identical dancers. The singer concluded the song with a Dutty Wine dance at the end of the performance, before immediately continuing with \"Diva\" which was set to the groove of \"Clique\". \"Naughty Girl\" was later performed into a neon strip-lit with a snippet of Donna Summer's \"Love to Love You Baby\" interpolated within it. Beyoncé also performed a seductive dance in front of an open fire display onstage. \"Party\" was performed after with a prominent Las Vegas showgirl theme. For \"Freakum Dress\" two ballerinas appeared on stage and performed a choreography along with a video projection on the screen. Beyoncé later appeared in a deep-plunging, thigh-high split long red dress performing the song along with her dancers.\nFor \"I Care\" the singer was dressed in a black leather fedora, seated on a bar stool. Beyoncé sang \"I Miss You\" while shadow dancing was illustrated on the screen behind her. \"Schoolin' Life\" was performed with a light show complete with '80s neon lights while she performed a dance routine with her dancers. An uptempo version of \"Why Don't You Love Me\" with a choreography by Beyoncé and Les Twins was preceded by a video projection showing a vintage montage of her. The singer performed the song with a call and response interaction between her and the audience dressed in a 1920s fringed dress. The performance of \"1+1\" saw Beyoncé in a blue cat-suit kneeling and laying atop a grand piano. During the end of \"1+1\", she was transformed from the main stage to the \"Bey-stage\", located closer to the crowd with a wire through a cloud of glitter. \"Irreplaceable\" was performed after that with an audience sing-along. \"Love on Top\" and an abbreviated version of Destiny's Child's \"Survivor\" followed; Beyoncé dedicated the latter song to the members of the aforementioned girl group, Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams. Beyoncé was taken back to the main stage being transferred with the same wire. \"Crazy in Love\" was the first song performed on the main stage with a new brassy arrangement, different from Beyoncé's other live performances of the song. During \"Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)\", she integrated a snippet from the song \"Movin' on Up\". Images of pyramids, animated lions and elephants and a portrait of the singer wearing a Nefertiti-style crown were displayed on the screen before the performance of \"Grown Woman\", keeping in line with the song's African influence. During the performance, the singer and her dancers wore African-inspired costumes. A montage was shown with the song \"I Was Here\" being played in the background showing footage of the singer with Barack Obama, taking part in charity work, during a vacation with Jay-Z and excerpts of her 2013 performance at the Super Bowl. An a cappella performance of the opening lines of \"I Will Always Love You\" preceded \"Halo\" as the closing song of the concert. \"Green Light\" and \"Suga Mama\" were used for the encore of the concert at numerous stops.\n\nThe performances of the songs that had already been performed during the 2013 shows remained the same; however some of them were shortened and mixed together. Many new songs from the singer's fifth album were added to the set list with a specific staging and theme. The projections shown on the stage followed the concept behind the singer's visual album. The performance of \"Flawless\", the second song on the set, opened with the words from Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's TED talk projected with big letters on the screen and later Beyoncé performed a choreography with her female dancers similarly to the song's music video. A performance of \"Yoncé\" followed with a new choreography with her dancers. \"Blow\" was merged with \"Naughty Girl\" (2003) and featured a burlesque and disco-era theme. During the end of the performance a projection of Pac-Man, the character of the game with the same name, eating cherries was projected on an LED screen onstage. \"Partition\" was performed in a similar fashion to its music video with Beyoncé appearing with a silhouette, dancing on a couch in front of a purple light. For \"Drunk in Love\", the singer performed a choreographed chair dance. During \"Haunted\", strobing lights and dancers were present on stage. \"Heaven\" and \"XO\" were performed as the concert's last songs along with \"Halo\".\n\nMike Wass from the website Idolator called the show a \"concert extravaganza in the style of Michael Jackson or Madonna\" praising the fact that the singer made a progress in the production values compared with her previous performances, mostly due to the expensive and high-quality visual projections which \"create atmosphere and add another layer to the production\". He further praised the singer's \"extraordinary talent\" during the performances hailing her as \"the greatest entertainer of her generation\" after seeing the show which showcased \"an icon at top of her game\". Tiffany Poole from \"The Oklahoman\" praised the fashion, video backdrops and \"some of the most impersonated dance moves on YouTube\" concluding, \"To say that Beyoncé puts on a good show would be grossly understated.\" \"Billboard\" writer Gail Mitchell hailed the concert as a \"musical and visual extravaganza\" complete with a kaleidoscope of colorful imagery and dancing, which according to him enhanced the music complete with the singer's strong vocals, rather than overshadowing it. He concluded that the tour claimed \"the multi-talented artist's intent to join the rarefied ranks of ultimate entertainer\". Nick Hasted of \"The Independent\" wrote that the tour followed the stadium trends containing \"big-budget movie clips and Broadway musical dance moves, with platoons of backing singers and dancers acting as extras\" further hailing it as a \"Cecil B. DeMille spectacle\". He finished his reviews by concluding, \"what makes this show's largely enervating juggernaut breathe is Beyoncé's tireless physical effort. She has created a literal body of work\".\nAlexis Petridis of \"The Guardian\" who compared the singer's performance with Tina Turner praised the show's \"bombastic\" opening and wrote that \"there's something powerful and relentless\" about it. He concluded \"while onstage Beyoncé feels weirdly unassailable\". Mikael Wood of \"Los Angeles Times\" noted, \"What left the deepest impression was something far more elemental: Beyoncé's ability to make self-aggrandizement seem like an expression of humility... [Her] ambition seemed in proportion with her fans' expectations; she came by the sense of scale honestly.\" \"The Observer\"s Kitty Empire highlighted the art direction of the show as \"nothing short of breathtaking, making awesome and repeated use of silhouette, of great white blocks of video screens, of live dancers interacting with video\". She praised the singer's \"fierce\" tireless dancing and concluded, \"But for all the hauteur here, in couture and bearing, Beyoncé delivers genuine warmth at close range.\" Bernadette McNulty from \"The Daily Telegraph\" found \"air of an ancient goddess worship ceremony... [and] of an expensive revue show\" in the concert. Although she felt that the choreographies often outshined the music, McNulty concluded: \"Yet Beyonce was never less than compelling to watch, and often blistering in her vocal attack\".\n\nPhilip Matusavage of musicOMH praised Beyoncé's abilities to perform live, calling her \"insanely talented\" and considered the performance at the B-stage a show highlight; however he commented that the production values of the show, consisting solely of a video screen were \"relatively low-key\" compared to other pop arena concerts. Matusavage further criticized the repetition of the songs and dance routines which had been previously performed during the singer's other concerts as the tour's \"most notable problem\". Shirley Halperin of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" felt that the singer \"tore through her... set with the ferocity of a grown woman who has something to prove\" and felt that she tried \"her damnedest to win the crowd over with an equal dose of sex appeal and good old-fashioned hyping\" further showcasing \"unequaled showmanship and those killer vocals\" which placed her at the top of R&B music. However Halperin criticized the show's set list mainly due to the majority of the songs from the album \"4\", writing, \"Bey sounded terrific on all, of course, but with a... ready-to-party audience angling to groove in the aisles, rather than sway with their hands to the heavens, overall it missed the mark.\" Digital Spy's Robert Copsey praised the high-energy nature of the show with vigorous dancing and \"blistering\" pace but felt that there was a lack of hits performed in the show's first half. \"NME\" editor Emily Mackay echoed his statements giving a mixed review for the tour, further criticizing the lack of hits in the set list and adding that only a \"paucity of material\" was incorporated in the set. She further dismissed the placement of interlude films in the show. A negative review came from \"San Jose Mercury News\" Jim Harrington who called the tour \"flawed\", criticized its set list consisting of \"plenty of filler[s]\" and the many dissipating costume changes she went through for the show. He further noted that the singer looked and sounded well but blamed the way the show and the production were choreographed.\n\nThe revamped show in 2014 received acclaim by critics. Isabel Mohan from \"The Daily Telegraph\" acclaimed the revamped show praising the singer's sex appeal and noted that although the set included many new songs, the singer \"remained strikingly composed and confident throughout a show which proved her talent, charisma and awe-inspiring thighs\". Sidney Madden who praised the upgraded set list further commended the show's fashion. Digital Spy's Robert Copsey felt that the show's set list was better than the original one describing the tour as \"wall-to-wall amazing Beyoncé\". He concluded in his review, \"The relentless pace, ever-changing visuals and sheer amount of songs crammed into the set is a lot to take in, let alone the fact that Beyoncé delivers the entire thing with power yet impeccable ease. When it comes to putting on a show of this calibre, these days she's really only competing with herself.\" \"The Observer\"s Kitty Empire praised the singer's ranuchiness during the tour different from the other performers and concluded by writing, \"There is no question as to Beyoncé's own powers. She can stop and start her all-female band... with a click of her fingers, and keep climbing octaves until you think her lungs are about to jump out of her chest. She sings (with a range that only gets wider and deeper with every tour) and dances (flawlessly) for more than one and a half hours.\" David Pollock of \"The Independent\" felt that, \"this near two-hour epic is a ferocious distillation of musical styles old and new and a stunning declaration of intent that Knowles intends to be recognised as the defining pop artist of her era. It was, at the very least, one of the hardest working shows likely to be witnessed on a stage this year, and with barely a drop of minutely-choreographed sweat to be seen.\"\n\nThe tour received a nomination in the category for Choice Summer Tour at the 2013 Teen Choice Summer Tour losing to One Direction's Take Me Home Tour. It was also nominated for Concert Marketing & Promotion Award and Eventful Fans' Choice Award at the 2013 Billboard Music Awards. The tour is nominated in the category for Best Tour at the 2014 Billboard Mid-Year Music Awards.\n\nFollowing the general on-sale of tickets, tour stops in several cities across America sold out in minutes after being announced. Due to the high demand, one extra show was added in Amsterdam, one extra show in Antwerp, two extra shows in London and a third date in Manchester. In North America, extra dates were added in Washington, D.C. Los Angeles and New York City. Phone firm O2, which was behind the pre-sale of the UK shows, said it could have sold out London's O Arena 150 times with the number of website hits with a spokesman noting the \"unprecedented level of demand from O2 customers looking to buy tickets\". Following the frenzied rush for tickets during the general sale, the UK tour had completely sold out within three minutes. Tickets for Rock in Rio became available for general sale on April 4, 2013 and within two hours, the first day of the festival, in which Beyoncé was headlining, had sold out all 65,000 tickets. 20,000 tickets had already sold out from the pre-sale a few months before. On July 7, 2013, Beyoncé's performance at the Essence Music Festival broke the attendance record with over 70,000 people in attendance. On June 24, 2013, a second wave of tour dates were announced via Beyoncé's official website. Included in this was a second US leg as well as a Latin American leg, containing multiple stadium dates in Brazil. It was revealed that Beyoncé set the record for the highest number of concert attendees in Brazil for the year 2013, with more than 230,000 fans attending her 5 shows in the country. \n\nOn July 7, 2013, the Australasia leg of the tour was announced, with dates set for shows in Australia and New Zealand, where Beyoncé held a concert for the first time in her career. Fan club tickets for the October 18, 2013 show in Auckland, New Zealand sold out in 3 minutes. The general sale for the New Zealand shows became available to the public on July 19, 2013 and within 15 minutes all allocations of tickets were sold out for the three shows. A fourth and final Auckland show was then added. Promoter Live Nation confirmed The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour was officially the fastest selling tour of all time at Vector Arena. It also became the concert with the highest attendance at Vector Arena by a solo artist, with 44,596 tickets sold. Beyoncé's two shows at the Perth Arena went on to hold the number one and two spots for highest attendance in a single show, dethroning previous record holder Pink. It was then announced that Beyoncé's Australasian leg of the tour was one of the most successful tours in the continent from any artist, playing for more than 220,000 fans and earning 40 million Australian dollars.\n\nOn December 11, 2013, a second European leg through 2014 was announced bringing the total number of shows to 132, thus becoming Beyoncé's longest running tour to date. Similar to the first European leg, a frenzied rush for tickets, further enhanced by the release of the singer's self-titled fifth studio album three days before ticket sales began, resulted in extra dates being added for all United Kingdom shows, Dublin, Cologne, Amsterdam and Antwerp. For the second European leg, Beyoncé had beaten the record she herself had set earlier in the year, by selling 40,000 tickets in under one hour for the two 2014 concerts at Antwerp. \"Pollstar\" ranked The Mrs. Carter Show at number 2 on its year-end chart of the top twenty grossing worldwide tours with a gross of $188.6 million from the 2013 shows. Tickets were sold with an average gross of $2,449,248 per city. In April 2014, \"Billboard\" reported that Beyoncé's 2014 European shows grossed $41.1 million and played for an audience of 384,730. This brought The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour's total gross to $229.7 million when combined with the 107 shows performed in 2013, and the total attendance to 2,082,848, averaging 15,779 attendance and $1.74 million gross per night. The tour is Beyoncé's highest grossing to date before being surpassed by The Formation World Tour which grossed over $256 million.\n\nProfessional footage from the tour was officially released on April 22, 2013 through Beyoncé's YouTube channel and website. It showed the opening moments of the show and performances of \"Run the World (Girls)\", \"Love on Top\" and \"Halo\" during the first concerts. A series of eight behind-the-scenes footage of the rehearsals and preparations for the tour were released on Beyoncé's website on May 21, 2013. During \"The Sound of Change Live\" charity concert held at Twickenham Stadium in London on June 1, 2013, various clips and performances were broadcast worldwide to over 150 countries which were believed to have reached over 1 billion people.\n\nA thirty-second trailer for the tour was released on June 24, 2013 containing live vocals of Beyoncé's \"Get Me Bodied\" and a dubstep audio mix. It showed footage from the tour's commercial and multiple snippets of live performances from the show. On August 29, 2013, Beyoncé posted a video titled \"Bey Good\" on her official website showing scenes of her with fans backstage and during the concerts. During Beyoncé's performance at the Made in America Festival, the two opening songs—\"Run the World (Girls)\" and \"End of Time\"—were streamed live via YouTube. Beyoncé's performance at Rock in Rio was broadcast in its entirety, and also streamed via YouTube. On August 22, 2013, Beyoncé released a black-and-white promotional retro video for the tour dates in Brazil. It was set to Frank Sinatra's version of the song \"The Girl from Ipanema\". The video featured the singer in a bikini swimming in the water, writing Brazil in the sand and relaxing on a hammock as well as various shots of the city.\n\nIn March 2014, a new promotional video was released midway through the second European leg and first leg of the 2014 tour. This was the first venture of the tour to include new performances and songs from Beyoncé's recently released self-titled fifth studio album. The video showed professional clips from some new performances and also featured a variety of backstage activity from the revamped tour. A video titled \"Goodbye to The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour\" was uploaded by the singer on her official YouTube channel on March 27, 2014 showing portions of live performances from the final leg of the tour, behind the scenes moments and visits to cities as \"XO\" was played in the background. In June 2014 it was announced that HBO would air \"Beyonce: X10\", a 10-episode series of four-minute segments of concert performances debuting weekly before new episodes of \"True Blood\" starting June 29. The performances were captured in various cities during the tour. They are included on a bonus disc in the platinum edition release of Beyoncé's 2013 self-titled album, which was released on November 24, 2014.\n\nCreative direction\n\nTour management\n\nSuga Mama band\n\nThe Mamas \n\nDancers\n\nChoreographers\n\nAssistant choreographers\n\nSecurity\n\nTour book\nCredits and personnel are taken from the \"Official The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour Program\".\n"}
{"id": "55685310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55685310", "title": "The Scarlet Professor", "text": "The Scarlet Professor\n\nThe Scarlet Professor is an opera by the American composer Eric Sawyer with libretto by Harley Erdman, based the biography by Barry Werth. \n\nThe world premieres of the fully staged opera occurred on September 15–17, 2017, at Smith College where the events that inspired the performance took place. The opera was performed without intermission with running time of about one hour and 40 minutes. A symposium on the Arvin case was held all day on September 16. The following weekend the opera was performed with a cast of young artists from the Five Colleges consortium of Western Massachusetts.\n\nThe 9-piece instrumental ensemble consisted of piano, percussion, flute, clarinet, tenor saxophone, and strings, with both electric and double bass.\n\nReviewer Marvin J. Ward found the opera a \"compelling and captivating work\", adding \"...composer Eric Sawyer has a penchant for choosing historical events, especially local ones, as the subjects of his operas. This is the third that I have seen, each more polished and refined than its predecessor, with \"The Scarlet Professor\" scoring a 10/10 in my book.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19146680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19146680", "title": "Théâtre des Variétés-Amusantes", "text": "Théâtre des Variétés-Amusantes\n\nThe Théâtre des Variétés-Amusantes was a theatre in Paris.\n\nIn 1778, Louis Lécluse (or Lécluze), a former actor at the Opéra-Comique turned dentist, opened a theatre at foire Saint-Laurent, which shortly afterwards he transferred to the boulevard du Temple, at the corner of rue de Lancry and rue de Bondy (now rue René-Boulanger, Xe arrondissement). \n\nUnable to bear the hostility this new enterprise generated, Lécluse ceded his theatre and its company to three former dancers of the Opéra – Fierville fils, Malter and Hamoir – as well as the financier Lemercier. The theatre opened on 12 April 1779 and it attracted large audiences by its varied and well-performed repertoire. Dorvigny wrote several plays for it, including \"Janot ou les Battus paient l'amende\" (11 June 1779), which was a great success.\n\nIn 1784, the theatre's directors had their privilege revoked by a Conseil d'État decree, in favour of Gaillard and Dorfeuille, after a complaint from the Académie royale de Musique. The new directors moved the theatre to the Palais-Royal and opened their new building on 1 January 1785, under the name Variétés du Palais-Royal. Its fare until that date had been farces, which they replaced with comedies, welcoming Monvel and Julie Candeille, then Talma, Dugazon and Mme Vestris. From then on the theatre was renamed the \"Théâtre-Français de la rue Richelieu\", then the \"Théâtre de la République\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47037778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47037778", "title": "Timeline of the governorship of Ezenwo Nyesom Wike", "text": "Timeline of the governorship of Ezenwo Nyesom Wike\n\nThe following is a timeline of the governorship of Ezenwo Nyesom Wike, also known as the Wike administration, from his inauguration as Governor of Rivers State on 29 May 2015 to present.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7637049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7637049", "title": "Valley Forge Pilgrimage", "text": "Valley Forge Pilgrimage\n\nThe Valley Forge Pilgrimage and Encampment is the oldest annual Scouting event in the World. It was first held on February 22, 1913 (George Washington's 181st birthday), and has been held every year since. The event is hosted by the Cradle of Liberty Council and commemorates the soldiers of the Continental Army who braved the winter of 1777-78 at Valley Forge. Each year more than 2,000 brave the winter chill of the Delaware Valley to participate.\n\nBoy Scouts of America (BSA) was only three years old, and was sweeping the country when approximately 300 Scouts from Philadelphia and suburban Delaware and Montgomery Counties took part in the first pilgrimage.\n\nTypical attendance ranged from 125 to 275 Scouts and leaders until the Great Depression. The event has been held every year, even during the Depression and World War II, though the event was then held at a reduced scale. In the early years, Scouts traveled to Valley Forge by train and foot, arriving at the Valley Forge Train Station.\n\nThe event was organized by an Episcopal priest, Rev. Dr. W. Herbert Burk of Norristown. Burk had also been instrumental in building the Washington Memorial Chapel at Valley Forge. Burk continued to be involved in the planning for the annual pilgrimage for the next two decades. The term \"pilgrimage\" was chosen because every participating troop lined up in formation with their flags and paraded to the chapel for the memorial service for George Washington.\n\nThe first \"official\" overnight Valley Forge Encampment in connection with a pilgrimage was in 1948. Prior to that there were many unofficial campouts on the site, as the area was relatively rural and unpopulated. General John Pershing and Daniel Carter Beard have both been featured guests. The biggest crowd was at the 1932 pilgrimage, which marked Washington's 200th birthday. An estimated 9,000 Boy Scouts from Pennsylvania and neighboring states, plus 10,000 adults and children, were on hand.\n\nThe event itself is divided into two parts: the Encampment, in which Scouts camp from Friday through Sunday on the Presidents' Day weekend, and the Pilgrimage which is all day Saturday. During the Pilgrimage, participants move around the Valley Forge NHP to hear volunteer interpreters from the National Park Service tell how the Continentals lived. Replicas of the original huts provide a glimpse of daily life. Conditions during the winter were poor, so the stories are also told how more than 2,000 soldiers died from typhus, dysentery, typhoid and pneumonia.\n\n\nThe Valley Forge Historical Trail is a 9-mile hiking trail through the Valley Forge National Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "2504667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2504667", "title": "World Youth Day 2008", "text": "World Youth Day 2008\n\nThe 23rd World Youth Day was a Catholic youth festival that started on 15 July and continued until 20 July 2008 in Sydney, Australia. It was the first World Youth Day held in Australia and the first World Youth Day in Oceania. This meeting was decided by Pope Benedict XVI, during the Cologne World Youth Day of 2005. The theme was \"You will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you\" (from Acts 1:8).\n\nAbout 500,000 young people from 200 countries attended during the week, and more than 1,000,000 came for the weekend. They were joined by about 600 bishops and cardinals, as well as by 6,600 reporters.\n\nThe festivals of WYD began on 1 July 2007, when a large 3.8-meter-high wooden cross and a large 15-kilogram icon of the Virgin Mary arrived in Sydney to travel around the country. The relay-style event, known as the Journey of the Cross and Icon (or JCI for short) saw the cross and icon go on a pilgrimage around the dioceses of Australia, engaging with a variety of Catholic parishes and communities.\n\nThe WYD Cross was entrusted to the youth of the world by Pope John Paul II in 1984 as a sign of peace and hope. The Pope told the young people of the world to take it around the world as \"a symbol of Christ's love for humanity\". In 2004, Pope John Paul II commissioned the large icon of the Virgin Mary to accompany the cross' pilgrimage. It is a symbol intended to represent Mary's maternal love for young people. From the announcement of the host World Youth Day, the cross and icon travel ceremonially around the world similar to the Olympic torch relay.\n\nIn the week preceding the main event, many young Catholic pilgrims spent time in different parts of Australia and New Zealand , staying with a local parish as part of the \"Days in the Dioceses\". After their stay, they travelled to Sydney for the Opening Mass of the week-long main event.\nThe Pope arrived at Sydney on 13 July at Richmond Air Force Base in North Western Sydney on a special Alitalia flight. Until 17 July he stayed in the Opus Dei centre, called Kenthurst Study Centre, 30 km from Sydney.\n\nOn 15 July, World Youth Day 2008 began with the Opening Mass, celebrated by George Cardinal Pell, the Archbishop of Sydney, at Barangaroo. This was followed by a concert.\n\nEach morning from 15 to 17 July, Catechists were held in approximately 300 locations. Pilgrims received teachings from a Bishop and also celebrated Mass. In the afternoons, pilgrims journeyed into the city and attend the Youth Festival consisting of a series of art exhibitions, concerts, seminars, and conferences.\n\nOn 17 July 2008, 500,000 attendees from around the world were present at Barangaroo to welcome Pope Benedict XVI on a day dubbed Super Thursday by the press. The Pope actually arrived on 14 July, but only appeared in public for the first time on the 17th. The event involved the Pope travelling around Port Jackson in a \"boatacade\" where pilgrims lined the shores to see him. However, there were many disappointed spectators in places like the Botanic Gardens and Circular Quay who did not actually see the Pope because of where he was sitting on the boat. The Sydney Children's Choir and Gondwana Voices performed at the event. The Pope then spoke extensively to the pilgrims and greeted them in five foreign languages. In order to let the pilgrims see him better the Pope was driven around Barangaroo through the crowds in his Popemobile.\nOn 18 July, there was a live re-enactment of the Stations of the Cross at major city landmarks with an estimated 270,000 participants. Around 500 million people around the world followed the stations on television.\n\nOn 19 July, around 235,000 pilgrims embarked on a 10-kilometre pilgrimage walk, beginning at the Mary MacKillop Chapel in North Sydney, over the Sydney Harbour Bridge and across the city to attend an overnight vigil before the Mass at Randwick Racecourse.\n\nApproximately 250,000 pilgrims slept overnight at Randwick, and about 300,000 to 400,000 participants attended the Final Mass celebrated by Pope Benedict XVI on Sunday 20 July.\n\nPope Benedict continued a tradition of Australian Papal Masses at Randwick Racecourse, following in the footsteps of John Paul II and Paul VI. At the conclusion of the final mass the Pope announced that the 2011 World Youth Day would be held in Madrid, Spain.\n\nWYD 2008 was the first World Youth Day to take full advantage of telecommunications, with Pope Benedict sending text messages to the pilgrims during the week. Each pilgrim who registered for WYD had the option of providing a mobile phone number to which the Pontiff's message would be sent at the beginning of each day.\n\nIt also saw the launch of a new registration social networking site called xt3.com, with the aim to connect young Catholics before, during and after World Youth Day 2008.\n\nOn 8 September, a final message was sent via SMS to WYD2008 pilgrims registered on Xt3.com, marking 50 days after the closing Mass:\n\nPilgrims were served a traditional Australian menu. Over the six-day event, 3.5 million meals were served. To cater for the masses, 210,000 slices of bread, 425,000 chocolate bars, 200,000 meat pies and 300,000 servings of Weet-Bix Crunch were ordered. \"We want to provide pilgrims with a good feed and a little bit of an Australian taste,\" WYD director of services Geoff Morris said; \"We have tried to do that by including some of our more iconic items such as Tim Tams, Weet-Bix Crunch, Vegemite, lamingtons and good old baked beans\". Organisers also held a \"Big Aussie BBQ\", which saw 200 barbecues lit up simultaneously across Sydney.\n\nPilgrims and the public were able to buy 470 different products including papal mementos such as special WYD rosary beads, Pope Benedict XVI baseball caps and rugby jerseys. Sydney's Catholic Archbishop Cardinal George Pell said that the Church was not looking to make a profit.\n\nAny remaining merchandise was given to Catholic charities and surplus clothing was sent overseas to developing nations.\n\nWorld Youth Day organizers revised the expected number of attendees downwards during the lead-up to the event. In October 2007, the Catholic Archbishop of Sydney, George Pell, claimed that \"over half a million\" people would attend the final mass at Randwick. The World Youth Day site later claimed likely attendance of \"up to\" half a million. Similarly, the projected number of overseas attendees was 150,000 people in 2006. This was later altered to a projection of \"over 125,000\" people from overseas.\n65,000 visas were granted as of 12 days before the start of the event.\n\nAround 500,000 welcomed the pope to Sydney and 270,000 watched the Stations of the Cross. More than 300,000 pilgrims camped out overnight in preparation for the Final Mass. The final attendance reported by Reuters was up to 300,000, however World Youth Day's Chief Operating Officer Danny Casey and other media reported over 400,000 attendees.\n\n\"Receive the Power\" is an original song written by Guy Sebastian and Gary Pinto, and chosen in May 2007 as the official anthem for the Roman Catholic Church's XXIII World Youth Day (WYD08).\n\n\"Receive the Power\" was played extensively throughout the 6 days of World Youth Day in July 2008, and also in the television coverage which went around the world. Guy Sebastian performed at the concert after the Opening Mass which officially welcomed Pope Benedict XVI to Australia. Sebastian and Paulini also performed both the English and international versions at the Final Mass at Randwick Race Course on 20 July. \nAn estimated 400,000 people attended the mass. \nSebastian and Paulini were invited to perform \"Receive The Power\" at the Pope's Farewell and thank you to volunteers on 21 July.\n\nThe Pope announced that pilgrims at World Youth Day 2008 and those from around the world who pray for the \"spiritual goals of this meeting and for its happy outcome\" would be able to receive indulgences. In Roman Catholic teaching an indulgence is believed to erase the temporal punishment (time spent in purgatory) which results from sin.\n\nTwo types of indulgences were available:\n\nSome were concerned regarding the NSW state government's public funding of $129 million and the federal government's funding of $55 million. Some described it as a \"promotional event\" for the Catholic Church.\n\nHowever the Sydney Chamber of Commerce estimated that World Youth Day would generate $230 million of economic activity and the NSW state government claimed that it would have a direct economic benefit over $150 million. In addition to direct benefits the state government said that the coverage of World Youth Day overseas was worth at least $1 billion. These gains would offset and exceed the government's expenditure on World Youth Day.\n\nThe use of the Randwick Racecourse for the event was criticised and legally challenged by the racing industry in Sydney. Industry representatives argued that alternative sites, such as the Sydney Olympic Park at Homebush Bay, were more suitable venues. However, the NSW and federal governments and the event organisers insisted that Randwick Racecourse was the only location suitable for an event of such scale. \n\nThe World Youth Day committee initially offered to pay an agreed settlement to the racing industry. However, after some complaints, the federal and the New South Wales state government stepped in and jointly pledged $42 million in compensation to the racing industry – more than triple the previously agreed upon amount. In exchange, the industry relocated its operations to the Warwick Farm and Rosehill Gardens racecourses, with infrastructure at these sites and at Randwick to be upgraded as part of the compensation package. In addition, the Australian Jockey Club's lease at Randwick was to be extended by 50 years.\n\nDespite some earlier concerns the final mass left the turf in good condition. The Randwick Project Steering Committee chief Hugh Martin stated that he was \"very pleased with the state of the track\" and an Australian Jockey Club spokesman noted that the \"track seems to have held up well.\"\n\nThe Parliament of New South Wales passed the \"World Youth Day Act 2006\" especially for the event. The regulations made under this act however had been the source of some controversy, mainly in the operation of various provisions of the \"World Youth Day Regulation 2008\" within hundreds of so-called \"declared areas\" across Sydney. These areas included over 40 city locations, including popular tourist spots the Sydney Opera House and the Sydney Harbour Bridge, as well as at numerous public transport stations and schools.\n\nThe most significant and contentious amendments to the regulations were announced by the Deputy Premier John Watkins on 25 June 2008 and came into effect on 1 July 2008. People entering or exiting declared areas would have been subject to being searched, including vehicles or baggage, if so requested. According to \"The Australian\", this may have included either general clothing inspections, partial strip searches, or even arrest. The regulations would have been enforced by police, with the Rural Fire Service and the State Emergency Service having enforcement power over some provisions. These authorisations were especially controversial, as such granted enforcement powers are normally available only to police. The new powers also caused concern to those organisations, which did not consider enforcement to be their role.\n\nOf the most contentious of the regulations, a maximum fine of A$5,500 was able to be imposed for causing 'annoyance or inconvenience' to WYD participants. This was challenged in the Federal Court of Australia on the grounds of violating the implied constitutional freedom of political communication and/or exceeding the regulation making power of the \"World Youth Day Act 2006 (NSW)\". The Full Court agreed with the latter argument, declaring Clause 7(1)(b) regarding the specific prohibition of causing \"annoyance to participants in a World Youth Day event\" invalid.\n\nA number of activist groups protested against the Catholic Church on World Youth Day. Various atheist and secular groups cooperated to form the NoToPope Coalition for WYD. The coalition rallied against the Church's stances on same-sex marriage, abortion, and contraception. Additionally, groups representing some victims of sexual abuse protested prior to WYD. On Saturday, the day of the pilgrimage walk, approximately 100 protesters positioned themselves on a street corner to chant slogans and wave banners at the over 200,000 pilgrims walking to Randwick. A strong police presence controlled the protesters.\n\nProtest organisers had planned to use T-shirts with anti-Catholic slogans such as \"Religion harms us by privileging faith over reason\", \"Badly needed community services were robbed to pay the Pope\" and \"107 Catholic clergy convicted\".\n\nThere were very few physical confrontations between the pilgrims and protestors, with some initiated by the protestors throwing condoms at the pilgrims. Police arrested one Australian pilgrim for attacking a protestor. A Sydney small business owner alleged that he received an anonymous threat against him and his family for producing \"annoying\" T-shirts.\n\nWYD coordinator Bishop Fisher told journalists the latest controversy was detracting from the massive Catholic youth festival underway in Sydney. \"I think most of Australia was enjoying, delighting in the beauty and goodness of these young people... rather than dwelling crankily, as a few people are doing, on old wounds.\"\n\nAnthony and Christine Foster spoke out on the Bishop's comments, labelling them \"very insensitive\". Their daughters Emma and Katherine were raped by priest Kevin O'Donnell leading to Emma's suicide at the age of 26, while her sister Katherine drank heavily before being left disabled when hit by a drunk driver in 1999. Advocates for Survivors of Child Abuse director Michael Salter was outraged by Bishop Anthony Fisher's comments, saying, \"The Catholic Church has a lot to learn about the burden of clergy abuse on the lives of victims, and those who care for them.\"\n\nBishop Fisher later said he had been misquoted by media representatives, who, according to him, had been the people he had called \"cranky\" and not the victims.\n\nAn additional 4,000 train and 3,400 bus services were commissioned for the event. There were 400 road clearways and 300 road closures. Threats to strike on 17 July in the heart of the celebrations, made by disgruntled rail workers, were withdrawn following negotiations with the state government.\n\nFollowing World Youth Day, the NSW Premier Morris Iemma gave the transport systems' performance a 10-out-of-10 rating. He stated that special events such as WYD proved that decent public transport was possible and was considering implementing some of the strategies used for the event on an ongoing basis. Former Roads and Traffic Authority director Ken Robinson said that the public transport system ran smoothly during World Youth Day due to better coordination between different transport authorities, whilst NSW transport minister John Watkins noted that public transport for the week worked \"tremondously well.\"\n\nOn 19 July 2008, in Sydney's St. Mary's Cathedral, Pope Benedict XVI made a historic full apology for child sex abuse by priests and clergymen in Australia. Before a congregation of 3,400, he called for compensation and demanded punishment for those guilty of the \"evil\": \"Here I would like to pause to acknowledge the shame which we have all felt as a result of the sexual abuse of minors by some clergy and religious in this country. I am deeply sorry for the pain and suffering the victims have endured and I assure them that, as their pastor, I too share in their suffering.\" The Pope added: \"Victims should receive compassion and care, and those responsible for these evils must be brought to justice. These misdeeds, which constitute so grave a betrayal of trust, deserve unequivocal condemnation. I ask all of you to support and assist your bishops, and to work together with them in combating this evil. It is an urgent priority to promote a safer and more wholesome environment, especially for young people.\" On 21 July, before flying out of Australia Pope Benedict met with a group of four victims of sexual abuse at St. Mary's Cathedral in Sydney, listened to their stories and celebrated mass with them. Broken Rites, the support group representing Australian victims, criticised the meeting as hand-picked: \"I'm afraid that what they've done is selected victims who have agreed with what the church's policies are\".\n\nBroken Rites said: \"Sorry may be a start but we want to see a lot more. We want the victims to be treated fairly, we don't want them to feel that they have been shut out, we don't want them to be re-abused by church authorities.\" It reported that there were 107 Catholic priests and religious brothers sentenced in Australian courts on sex charges, and that in 2002, Australian bishops had already apologised for past abuses.\n\nThe then NSW Premier Morris Iemma said he hoped \"it would be a sign of righting the wrongs of the past and of a better future and better treatment by the church of the victims and their families.\"\n\nThe Pontiff departed from Sydney Airport on 21 July 2008. Before boarding a chartered Qantas Boeing 747-400 at Sydney Airport's Hangar 96, he thanked Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, Governor General Major General Michael Jeffery, newly appointed Ambassador to the Holy See Tim Fischer, and Cardinal George Pell. The Pontiff left Australia after the farewell message of thanks by Rudd: \"Today I announce that for the first time Australia will have a resident Ambassador to the Holy See in Rome. And today I announce that the Government will be recommending to his Excellency the Governor General the appointment of the former Deputy Prime Minister of Australia the Honourable Tim Fischer as Australia’s first resident Ambassador to the Holy See.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "59100122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59100122", "title": "Yellow vests movement", "text": "Yellow vests movement\n\nThe Yellow Vests movement (, ), also referred to as the Yellow Jacket Movement in English, is a protest movement which began demonstrations in France on Saturday, 17 November 2018 and subsequently spread to nearby countries (e.g. Italy (), Belgium and the Netherlands ()). Galvanized by rising fuel prices, the high cost of living, and claims that a disproportionate burden of the government's tax reforms were falling on the working and middle classes (especially those in rural and peri-urban areas.) protesters called for the end of such changes and the resignation of the President of France, Emmanuel Macron.\n\nThe movement has been most visible in French cities, but has had a wider echo because rural areas have been unusually mobilized. The \"yellow vest\" was chosen as a symbol because all motorists had been required by law—since 2008—to have high-visibility vests in their vehicles when driving. As a result, reflective vests have become widely available, inexpensive, and symbolic.\n\nSince the 1950s, the French government has subsidized the production of diesel engines. In particular, since 1980, Peugeot has been at the forefront of diesel technology. VAT taxes being cut for corporate fleets also increased the prevalence of diesel cars in France.\n\nOne of the first known demonstrations in France against the taxation of petrol prices dates back to 1933 in Lille. The movement against tax increases also evokes the \"poujadism\" of the 1950s, which mobilized the middle classes and was articulated around a tax revolt.\n\"Slow-down movements\" were also organized in the 1970s. In July 1992, such a movement was set up to protest against the introduction of the points-based permit.\n\nAccording to Béatrice Giblin, comparisons between the \"gilets jaunes\" and the Bonnets Rouges—who opposed a new eco-tax in 2013—were inapt because the latter \"had been taken in hand by real leaders, such as the mayor of Carhaix, or the great bosses of Brittany\" whereas the yellow jackets remained leaderless.\n\nDiesel prices in France have increased by 16% in 2018, with taxes on both petrol and diesel increasing at the same time and a further tax increase planned in 2019. Those increases made diesel as expensive as petrol. President Emmanuel Macron is bearing the brunt of the protestors' anger for his extension of policies implemented under François Hollande's government.\n\nThe protests began on 17 November 2018, and attracted over 300,000 people across France, with protestors constructing barricades and blocking roads. \nAccording to John Lichfield, those protests were not a protest, but an insurrection.\n\nThe yellow jacket movement is not associated with a specific political party or trade union and has spread largely by social media. Polls show that the movement has widespread support in France (ranging from 73% to 84%). On the first Saturday, a 63-year old retiree demonstrating was run over by a motorist in Le Pont-de-Beauvoisin at the roundabout allowing access to a commercial zone. In addition to roads, protestors also blocked as many as 10 fuel depots.\n\nThe protests in Paris having raised tensions the week before, the Interior Ministry agreed to allow a gathering on 24 November at the Champ de Mars, the field stretching out beneath the Eiffel Tower. On that day, protests attracted 106,000 people all across France according to the Interior Ministry, only 8,000 of whom in Paris, where the protests turned violent. Protestors lit fires in the streets, tore down signs, built barricades and pulled up cobblestones. Police resorted to tear gas and water cannons to disperse the protesters. The minister of the interior, Christophe Castaner, blamed Macron's 2017 Presidential opponent Marine Le Pen and her Rassemblement National for the violence after she had reportedly urged people to go to the Champs Élysées. but Le Pen responded that letting these people assemble at Champs Élysées was the government's responsibility, accusing the interior minister of trying to ratchet up the tension to discredit the movement.\nA protest called \"Act 3 - Macron quits\" was organised for 1 December, with the hope that it could be less violent than the previous weeks protests.\n\nProtests also occurred in the French overseas region of Réunion, where the situation deteriorated into looting and riots. Schools on the island were closed for three days due to protestors blocking access to roads. On 21 November, Macron ordered the deployment of troops to the island to calm the violence.\n\nTruckers have been targeted by protestors and the trucking industry has made their displeasure with the situation known to the government in an open letter.\n\nAccording to Kim Willsher of \"The Guardian\", the \"gilets jaunes\" protests have also inspired imitation in Italy. She cites an Italian organizer saying, \"We are inspired by the French \"gilet jaunes\", (...) But we are motivated by other issues. We, unlike the French, support our government. What we protest against is Europe. We want Europe to no longer interfere with Italian politics.\"\n\nRiot police in Brussels were pelted with billiard balls, cobblestones, and rocks on 30 November, and responded with water cannon in demonstrations which led to 60 arrests for disturbing the public order. Several oil depots had been blocked in Wallonia as of 16 November 2018, though protesters' attempts to block the Russian Lukoil depot in Brussels were quickly thwarted by police. The movement is now working to form a party for the Belgian federal elections in 2019 under the name \"Mouvement citoyen belge\". On 1 December, \"yellow vest\" demonstrators protested in the Dutch cities of The Hague, Nijmegen, Maastricht, Alkmaar, Leeuwarden and Groningen.\n\nBy 24 November, the \"gilets jaunes\" protests had led to two deaths and over 750 injuries, including 136 police officers. Two days later, officials estimated that the damage in Paris alone could be up to €1.5m (£1.3m), and had mobilised 200 additional workers to assist with the cleanup and repair work.\n\nBy 2 December, the \"gilets jaunes\" protests had led to three deaths, the third being in Arles.\n\nOn 2 December, Macron called an emergency security meeting following the protests the previous day. This led to speculation that France could be put under a state of emergency.\n\nMore than a hundred cars have been burnt in Paris during the protest.\nThe protest began at the end of October 2018 with an online petition. The group constituted around this petition then protested against an increase in fuel prices they considered excessive, stating that this increase was due to the increase in taxes.\n\nAccording to the French Union of Petroleum Industries, the price of lead-free 95 (SP95 - E10) and diesel fuel per litre increased by +14% and +22% respectively between October 2017 and October 2018. However, two thirds of this increase is due to the increase in world oil prices; only one third of the price increase comes from a tax increase. The tax increase had been 7.6 cents per litre on diesel and 3.9 cents on petrol in 2018, with a further increase of 6.5 cents on diesel and 2.9 cents on petrol planned for 1 January 2019.\n\nThe taxes collected on the sale of fuel are:\nThis protest movement against fuel prices mainly concerns individuals, as a number of professions and activities benefit from partial or total exemptions from TICPE.\n\nThe protesters criticize Édouard Philippe's second government for making individuals support the bulk of the cost of the carbon tax. As the carbon tax has progressively been ramping up to meet ecological objectives, many who have chosen fossil-fuel based heating for their homes, outside of city centers—where a car is required—are displeased. Macron attempted to dispel these concerns in early November by offering special subsidies and incentives.\n\n"}
