{"id": "39465229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39465229", "title": "Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh", "text": "Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh\n\nThe Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh (the Accord) was signed on 15 May 2013. It is a five-year independent, legally binding agreement between global brands and retailers and trade unions designed to build a safe and healthy Bangladeshi Ready Made Garment (RMG) Industry. The agreement was created in the immediate aftermath of the Rana Plaza building collapse that led to the death of more than 1100 people and injured more than 2000. In June 2013, an implementation plan was agreed leading to the incorporation of the Bangladesh Accord Foundation in the Netherlands in October 2013.\n\nThe agreement consists of six key components:\n\n\nThe accord was sponsored and created by the IndustriALL Global Union and the UNI Global Union in alliance with leading NGOs, the Clean Clothes Campaign and the Workers Rights Consortium. It is an expanded version of an earlier 2-year accord that had been signed only by PVH and Tchibo.\n\nFollowing the 2013 Savar building collapse on 24 April 2013 that resulted in over 1,100 deaths, there was wide global interest by both the consuming public and clothing retailers in establishing enforceable standards for fire and building safety in Bangladesh. The German government sponsored a meeting of retailers and NGOs at the beginning of May, and the meeting set a deadline of midnight of 16 May 2013 to sign up to the agreement. Numerous companies had signed up by the deadline, covering over 1,000 Bangladeshi garment factories.\n\nIn addition to schemes of building inspection and enforcement of fire and safety standards the accord requires that contracts by international retailers with Bangladesh manufacturers provide for compensation adequate to maintain safe buildings. Retailers agree to continue to support the Bangladesh textile industry despite possible higher costs. It is estimated that the total cost may be $1 billion, about $500,000 per factory. Close co-operation with the International Labour Organization and the government of Bangladesh is required. A steering committee which governs the accord is established as are dispute resolution procedures such as arbitration. The accord calls for development of an Implementation Plan over 45 days.\n\nSince 29 October 2013, the Accord has been signed by over 200 apparel brands, retailers and importers from over 20 countries in Europe, North America, Asia and Australia; two global trade unions; and eight Bangladesh trade unions and four NGO witnesses.\nSome of the notable companies are listed below. For a complete list see the Bangladesh Accord website.\n\n\n\nMost North American retailers did not sign the accord. Companies like Gap Inc. and Walmart cited liability concerns. According to spokespersons for the retail industry, American courts, which allow class actions, contingent fees, and do not require losing plaintiffs to pay legal fees, might permit liability claims against retailers in the event of another disaster which might result in substantial enforceable judgments, in contrast to European courts which generally do not allow class actions, forbid contingent fees, and require losing plaintiffs to pay winning defendants' legal fees and costs. However, as John C. Coffee, professor of corporate law at Columbia Law School, pointed out, \"Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co.\" might apply thus foreclosing suits by Bangladesh workers under the Alien Tort Claims Act, but this seems unlikely. It is more likely that liability would be based on contract law.\n\nOn 10 July 2013, a group of 17 major North American retailers calling themselves the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety announced the Bangladesh Worker Safety Initiative. The Initiative drew criticism from labour groups who complained that it was less stringent than the Accord and lacked legally binding commitments to pay for improvements.\n\nIn two years, the Accord have inspected more than 1500 factories for fire, electrical and structural safety. Many safety issues were identified at each inspected factory. Accord said, fixing all these hazards is a huge work for the RMG industry, but safety remediation work in those factories is underway. There has been especially good progress on electrical remediation which is positive as most factory fires are caused by electrical hazards. The Government of Bangladesh has said that the Accord will not be extended at the end of its five-year term.\n\n"}
{"id": "263801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263801", "title": "Alien hand syndrome", "text": "Alien hand syndrome\n\nAlien hand syndrome (AHS) or Dr. Strangelove syndrome is a condition in which a person experiences their limbs acting seemingly on their own, without control over the actions. The term is used for a variety of clinical conditions and most commonly affects the left hand. There are many similar names used to describe the various forms of the condition but they are often used inappropriately. The afflicted person may sometimes reach for objects and manipulate them without wanting to do so, even to the point of having to use the controllable hand to restrain the alien hand. While under normal circumstances, thought, as intent, and action can be assumed to be deeply mutually entangled, the occurrence of alien hand syndrome can be usefully conceptualized as a phenomenon reflecting a functional \"disentanglement\" between thought and action.\n\nAlien hand syndrome is best documented in cases where a person has had the two hemispheres of their brain surgically separated, a procedure sometimes used to relieve the symptoms of extreme cases of epilepsy and epileptic psychosis, e.g., temporal lobe epilepsy. It also occurs in some cases after brain surgery, stroke, infection, tumor, aneurysm, migraine and specific degenerative brain conditions such as Alzheimer's disease and Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease. Other areas of the brain that are associated with alien hand syndrome are the frontal, occipital, and parietal lobes.\n\n\"Alien behavior\" can be distinguished from reflexive behavior in that the former is flexibly purposive while the latter is obligatory. Sometimes the sufferer will not be aware of what the alien hand is doing until it is brought to his or her attention, or until the hand does something that draws their attention to its behavior. There is a clear distinction between the behaviors of the two hands in which the affected hand is viewed as \"wayward\" and sometimes \"disobedient\" and generally out of the realm of their own voluntary control, while the unaffected hand is under normal volitional control. At times, particularly in patients who have sustained damage to the corpus callosum that connects the two cerebral hemispheres (see also split-brain), the hands appear to be acting in opposition to each other.\n\nA related syndrome described by the French neurologist François Lhermitte involves the release through disinhibition of a tendency to compulsively utilize objects that present themselves in the surrounding environment around the patient. The behavior of the patient is, in a sense, obligatorily linked to the \"affordances\" (using terminology introduced by the American ecological psychologist, James J. Gibson) presented by objects that are located within the immediate peri-personal environment.\n\nThis condition, termed \"utilization behavior\", is most often associated with extensive bilateral frontal lobe damage and might actually be thought of as \"bilateral\" alien hand syndrome in which the patient is compulsively directed by external environmental contingencies (e.g. the presence of a hairbrush on the table in front of them elicits the act of brushing the hair) and has no capacity to \"hold back\" and inhibit pre-potent motor programs that are obligatorily linked to the presence of specific external objects in the peri-personal space of the patient. When the frontal lobe damage is bilateral and generally more extensive, the patient completely loses the ability to act in a self-directed manner and becomes totally dependent upon the surrounding environmental indicators to guide his behavior in a general social context, a condition referred to as \"environmental dependency syndrome\".\n\nIn order to deal with the alien hand, some patients engage in personification of the affected hand. Usually these names are negative in nature, from mild such as \"cheeky\" to malicious \"monster from the moon\". For example, Doody and Jankovic described a patient who named her alien hand \"baby Joseph\". When the hand engaged in playful, troublesome activities such as pinching her nipples (akin to biting while nursing), she would experience amusement and would instruct baby Joseph to \"stop being naughty\". Furthermore, Bogen suggested that certain personality characteristics, such as a flamboyant personality, contribute to frequent personification of the affected hand.\n\nNeuroimaging and pathological research shows that the frontal lobe (in the frontal variant) and corpus callosum (in the callosal variant) are the most common anatomical lesions responsible for the alien hand syndrome. These areas are closely linked in terms of motor planning and its final pathways.\n\nThe callosal variant includes advanced willed motor acts by the non-dominant hand, where patients frequently exhibit \"intermanual conflict\" in which one hand acts at cross-purposes with the other \"good hand\". For example, one patient was observed putting a cigarette into her mouth with her intact, \"controlled\" hand (her right, dominant hand), following which her alien, non-dominant, left hand came up to grasp the cigarette, pull the cigarette out of her mouth, and toss it away before it could be lit by the controlled, dominant, right hand. The patient then surmised that \"I guess 'he' doesn't want me to smoke that cigarette.\" Another patient was observed to be buttoning up her blouse with her controlled dominant hand while the alien non-dominant hand, at the same time, was unbuttoning her blouse. The frontal variant most often affects the dominant hand, but can affect either hand depending on the lateralization of the damage to medial frontal cortex, and includes grasp reflex, impulsive groping toward objects or/and tonic grasping (i.e. difficulty in releasing grip).\n\nIn most cases, classic alien-hand signs derive from damage to the medial frontal cortex, accompanying damage to the corpus callosum. In these patients the main cause of damage is unilateral or bilateral infarction of cortex in the territory supplied by the anterior cerebral artery or associated arteries. Oxygenated blood is supplied by the anterior cerebral artery to most medial portions of the frontal lobes and to the anterior two-thirds of the corpus callosum, and infarction may consequently result in damage to multiple adjacent locations in the brain in the supplied territory. As the medial frontal lobe damage is often linked to lesions of the corpus callosum, frontal variant cases may also present with callosal form signs. Cases of damage restricted to the callosum however, tend not to show frontal alien-hand signs.\n\nThe common emerging factor in alien hand syndrome is that the primary motor cortex controlling hand movement is isolated from premotor cortex influences but remains generally intact in its ability to execute movements of the hand.\n\nA 2009 fMRI study looking at the temporal sequence of activation of components of a cortical network associated with voluntary movement in normal individuals demonstrated \"an anterior-to-posterior temporal gradient of activity from supplemental motor area through premotor and motor cortices to the posterior parietal cortex\". Therefore, with normal voluntary movement, the emergent sense of agency appears to be associated with an orderly sequence of activation that develops initially in the anteromedial frontal cortex in the vicinity of the supplementary motor complex on the medial surface of the frontal aspect of the hemisphere (including the supplementary motor area) \"prior\" to activation of the primary motor cortex in the pre-central gyrus on the lateral aspect of the hemisphere, when hand movement is being generated. Activation of the primary motor cortex, presumed to be directly involved in the execution of the action via projections into the corticospinal component of the pyramidal tracts, is then followed by activation of the posterior parietal cortex, possibly related to the receipt of recurrent or \"re-afferent\" somatosensory feedback generated from the periphery by the movement which would normally interact with the efference copy transmitted from primary motor cortex to permit the movement to be recognized as self-generated rather than imposed by an external force. That is, the efference copy allows the recurrent afferent somatosensory flow from the periphery associated with the self-generated movement to be recognized as \"re-afference\" as distinct from \"ex-afference\". Failure of this mechanism may lead to a failure to distinguish between self-generated and externally generated movement of the limb. This anomalous situation in which re-afference from a self-generated movement is mistakenly registered as ex-afference due to a failure to generate and successfully transmit an efference copy to sensory cortex, could readily lead to the interpretation that what is in actuality a self-generated movement has been produced by an external force as a result of the failure to develop a sense of agency in association with emergence of the self-generated movement (see below for a more detailed discussion).\n\nA 2007 fMRI study examining the difference in functional brain activation patterns associated with alien as compared to non-alien \"volitional\" movement in a patient with alien hand syndrome found that alien movement involved anomalous \"isolated\" activation of the primary motor cortex in the damaged hemisphere contralateral to the alien hand, while non-alien movement involved the normal process of activation described in the preceding paragraph in which primary motor cortex in the intact hemisphere activates in concert with frontal premotor cortex and posterior parietal cortex presumably involved in a normal cortical network generating premotor influences on the primary motor cortex along with immediate post-motor re-afferent activation of the posterior parietal cortex.\n\nCombining these two fMRI studies, one could hypothesize that the alien behavior that is unaccompanied by a sense of agency emerges due to autonomous activity in the primary motor cortex acting independently of premotor cortex pre-activating influences that would normally be associated with the emergence of a sense of agency linked to the execution of the action.\n\nAs noted above, these ideas can also be linked to the concept of efference copy and \"re-afference\", where efference copy is a signal postulated to be directed from premotor cortex (activated normally in the process associated with emergence of an internally generated movement) over to somatosensory cortex of the parietal region, in advance of the arrival of the \"re-afferent\" input generated from the moving limb, that is, the afferent return from the moving limb associated with the self-generated movement produced. It is generally thought that a movement is recognized as internally generated when the efference copy signal effectively \"cancels out\" the re-afference. The afferent return from the limb is effectively correlated with the efference copy signal so that the re-afference can be recognized as such and distinguished from \"ex-afference\", which would be afferent return from the limb produced by an externally imposed force. When the efference copy is no longer normally generated, then the afferent return from the limb associated with the self-generated movement is mis-perceived as externally produced \"ex-afference\" since it is no longer correlated with or canceled out by the efference copy. As a result, the development of the sense that a movement is not internally generated even though it actually is (i.e. the failure of the sense of agency to emerge in conjunction with the movement), could indicate a failure of the generation of the efference copy signal associated with the normal premotor process through which the movement is prepared for execution.\n\nSince there is no disturbance of the \"sense of ownership\" of the limb (a concept discussed in the Wikipedia entry on sense of agency) in this situation, and there is no clearly apparent physically ostensible explanation for how the owned limb could be moving in a purposive manner without an associated sense of agency, effectively through its own power, a cognitive dissonance is created which may be resolved through the assumption that the goal-directed limb movement is being directed by an \"alien\" unidentifiable external force with the capacity for directing goal-directed actions of one's own limb.\n\nIt is theorized that alien hand syndrome results when disconnection occurs between different parts of the brain that are engaged in different aspects of the control of bodily movement. As a result, different regions of the brain are able to command bodily movements, but cannot generate a conscious feeling of self-control over these movements. As a result, the \"sense of agency\" that is normally associated with voluntary movement is impaired or lost. There is a dissociation between the process associated with the actual execution of the physical movements of the limb and the process that produces an internal sense of voluntary control over the movements, with this latter process thus normally creating the internal conscious sensation that the movements are being internally initiated, controlled and produced by an active self.\n\nRecent studies have examined the neural correlates of emergence of the sense of agency under normal circumstances. This appears to involve consistent congruence between what is being produced through efferent outflow to the musculature of the body, and what is being sensed as the presumed product in the periphery of this efferent command signal. In alien hand syndrome, the neural mechanisms involved in establishing that this congruence has occurred may be impaired. This may involve an abnormality in the brain mechanism that differentiates between \"re-afference\" (i.e., the return of kinesthetic sensation from the self-generated \"active\" limb movement) and \"ex-afference\" (i.e., kinesthetic sensation generated from an externally produced 'passive' limb movement in which an active self does not participate). This brain mechanism is proposed to involve the production of a parallel \"efference copy\" signal that is sent directly to the somatic sensory regions and is transformed into a \"corollary discharge\", an expected afferent signal from the periphery that would result from the performance driven by the issued efferent signal. The correlation of the corollary discharge signal with the actual afferent signal returned from the periphery can then be used to determine if, in fact, the intended action occurred as expected. When the sensed result of the action is congruent with the predicted result, then the action can be labelled as self-generated and associated with an emergent sense of agency.\n\nIf, however, the neural mechanisms involved in establishing this sensorimotor linkage associated with self-generated action are faulty, it would be expected that the sense of agency with action would not develop as discussed in the previous section.\n\nOne theory posed to explain these phenomena proposes that the brain has separable neural \"premotor\" or \"agency\" systems for managing the process of transforming intentions into overt action. An anteromedial frontal premotor system is engaged in the process of directing exploratory actions based on \"internal\" drive by releasing or reducing inhibitory control over such actions.\n\nA recent paper reporting on neuronal unit recording in the medial frontal cortex in human subjects showed a clear pre-activation of neurons identified in this area up to several hundred milliseconds prior to the onset of an overt self-generated finger movement and the authors were able to develop a computational model whereby volition emerges once a change in internally generated firing rate of neuronal assemblies in this part of the brain crossed a threshold. Damage to this anteromedial premotor system produces disinhibition and release of such exploratory and object acquisition actions which then occur autonomously. A posterolateral temporo-parieto-occipital premotor system has a similar inhibitory control over actions that withdraw from environmental stimuli as well as the ability to excite actions that are contingent upon and driven by external stimulation, as distinct from internal drive. These two intrahemispheric systems, each of which activates an opposing cortical \"tropism\", interact through mutual inhibition that maintains a dynamic balance between approaching toward (i.e. with \"intent-to-capture\" in which contact with and grasping onto the attended object is sought) versus withdrawing from (i.e. with \"intent-to-escape\" in which distancing from the attended object is sought) environmental stimuli in the behavior of the contralateral limbs. Together, these two intrahemispheric agency systems form an integrated trans-hemispheric agency system.\n\nWhen the anteromedial frontal \"escape\" system is damaged, involuntary but purposive movements of an exploratory reach-and-grasp nature—what Denny-Brown referred to as a \"positive\" cortical tropism—are released in the contralateral limb. This is referred to as a \"positive\" cortical tropism because eliciting sensory stimuli, such as would result from tactile contact on the volar aspect of the fingers and palm of the hand, are linked to the activation of movement that increases or enhances the eliciting stimulation through a positive feedback connection (see discussion above in section entitled \"Parietal and Occipital Lobes\").\n\nWhen the posterolateral parieto-occipital \"approach\" system is damaged, involuntary purposive movements of a release-and-retract nature, such as levitation and instinctive avoidance – what Denny-Brown referred to as a \"negative\" cortical tropism – are released in the contralateral limb. This is referred to as a \"negative\" cortical tropism because eliciting sensory stimuli, such as would result from tactile contact on the volar aspect of the fingers and palm of the hand, are linked to the activation of movement that reduces or eliminates the eliciting stimulation through a negative feedback connection (see discussion above in section entitled \"Parietal and Occipital Lobes\").\n\nEach intrahemispheric agency system has the potential capability of acting autonomously in its control over the contralateral limb although unitary integrative control of the two hands is maintained through interhemispheric communication between these systems via the projections traversing the corpus callosum at the cortical level and other interhemispheric commissures linking the two hemispheres at the subcortical level.\n\nOne major difference between the two hemispheres is the direct connection between the agency system of the dominant hemisphere and the encoding system based primarily in the dominant hemisphere that links action to its production and through to its interpretation with language and language-encoded thought. The overarching unitary conscious agent that emerges in the intact brain is based primarily in the dominant hemisphere and is closely connected to the organization of language capacity. It is proposed that while relational action in the form of embodied intersubjective behavior precedes linguistic capacity during infant development, a process ensues through the course of development through which linguistic constructs are linked to action elements in order to produce a language-based encoding of action-oriented knowledge.\n\nWhen there is a major disconnection between the two hemispheres resulting from callosal injury, the language-linked dominant hemisphere agent which maintains its primary control over the dominant limb loses, to some degree, its direct and linked control over the separate \"agent\" based in the nondominant hemisphere, and the nondominant limb, which had been previously responsive and \"obedient\" to the dominant conscious agent. The possibility of purposeful action occurring outside of the realm of influence of the conscious dominant agent can occur and the basic assumption that both hands are controlled through and subject to the dominant agent is proven incorrect. The sense of agency that would normally arise from movement of the nondominant limb now no longer develops, or, at least, is no longer accessible to consciousness. A new explanatory narrative for understanding the situation in which the now inaccessible nondominant hemisphere based agent is capable of activating the nondominant limb is necessitated.\n\nUnder such circumstances, the two separated agents can control simultaneous actions in the two limbs that are directed at opposing purposes although the dominant hand remains linked to the dominant consciously accessible language-linked agent and is viewed as continuing to be under \"conscious control\" and obedient to conscious will and intent as accessible through thought, while the nondominant hand, directed by an essentially non-verbal agent whose intent can only be inferred by the dominant agent after the fact, is no longer \"tied in\" and subject to the dominant agent and is thus identified by the conscious language-based dominant agent as having a separate and inaccessible alien agency and associated existence. This theory would explain the emergence of alien behavior in the nondominant limb and intermanual conflict between the two limbs in the presence of damage to the corpus callosum.\n\nThe distinct anteromedial, frontal, and posterolateral temporo-parieto-occipital variants of the alien hand syndrome would be explained by selective injury to either the frontal or the posterior components of the agency systems within a particular hemisphere, with the relevant and specific form of alien behavior developing in the limb contralateral to the damaged hemisphere.\n\nDamage to the corpus callosum can give rise to \"purposeful\" actions in the sufferer's non-dominant hand (an individual who is left-hemisphere-dominant will experience the left hand becoming alien, and the right hand will turn alien in the person with right-hemisphere dominance).\n\nIn \"the callosal variant\", the patient's hand counteracts voluntary actions performed by the other, \"good\" hand. Two phenomena that are often found in patients with callosal alien hand are \"agonistic dyspraxia\" and \"diagonistic dyspraxia\".\n\nAgonistic dyspraxia involves compulsive automatic execution of motor commands by one hand when the patient is asked to perform movements with the other hand. For example, when a patient with callosal damage was instructed to pull a chair forward, the affected hand would decisively and impulsively push the chair backwards.\nAgonistic dyspraxia can thus be viewed as an involuntary competitive interaction between the two hands directed toward completion of a desired act in which the affected hand competes with the unaffected hand to complete a purposive act originally intended to be performed by the unaffected hand.\n\nDiagonistic dyspraxia, on the other hand, involves a conflict between the desired act in which the unaffected hand has been engaged and the interfering action of the affected hand which works to oppose the purpose of the desired act intended to be performed by the unaffected hand. For instance, when Akelaitis's patients underwent surgery to the corpus callosum to reduce epileptic seizures, one patient's left alien hand would frequently interfere with the right hand. For instance, while trying to turn over to the next page with the right hand, his left hand would try to close the book.\n\nIn another case of callosal alien hand, the patient did not suffer from intermanual conflict between the hands but rather from a symptom characterized by involuntary mirror movements of the affected hand. When the patient was asked to perform movements with one hand, the other hand would involuntarily perform a mirror image movement which continued even when the involuntary movement was brought to the attention of the patient, and the patient was asked to restrain the mirrored movement. The patient suffered from a ruptured aneurysm near the anterior cerebral artery, which resulted in the right hand being mirrored by the left hand. The patient described the left hand as frequently interfering and taking over anything the patient tried to do with the right hand. For instance, when trying to grasp a glass of water with the right hand with a right side approach, the left hand would involuntary reach out and grasp hold of the glass through a left side approach.\n\nMore recently, Geschwind et al. described the case of a woman who suffered severe coronary heart disease. One week after undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting, she noticed that her left hand started to \"live a life of its own\". It would unbutton her gown, try to choke her while asleep and would automatically fight with the right hand to answer the phone. She had to physically restrain the affected hand with the right hand to prevent injury, a behavior which has been termed \"self-restriction\". The left hand also showed signs of severe ideomotor apraxia. It was able to mimic actions but only with the help of mirror movements executed by the right hand (enabling synkinesis). Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Geschwind et al. found damage to the posterior half of the callosal body, sparing the anterior half and the splenium extending slightly into the white matter underlying the right cingulate cortex.\n\nUnilateral injury to the medial aspect of the brain's frontal lobe can trigger reaching, grasping and other purposeful movements in the contralateral hand. With anteromedial frontal lobe injuries, these movements are often exploratory reaching movements in which external objects are frequently grasped and utilized functionally, without the simultaneous perception on the part of the patient that they are \"in control\" of these movements. Once an object has been acquired and is maintained in the grasp of this \"frontal variant\" form of alien hand, the patient often has difficulty with voluntarily releasing the object from grasp and can sometimes be seen to be peeling the fingers of the hand back off the grasped object using the opposite controlled hand to enable the release of the grasped object (also referred to as tonic grasping or the \"instinctive grasp reaction\"). Some (for example, the neurologist Derek Denny-Brown) have referred to this behavior as \"magnetic apraxia\"\n\nGoldberg and Bloom described a woman who suffered a large cerebral infarction of the medial surface of the left frontal lobe in the territory of the left anterior cerebral artery which left her with the frontal variant of the alien hand involving the right hand. There were no signs of callosal disconnection nor was there evidence of any callosal damage. The patient displayed frequent grasp reflexes; her right hand would reach out and grab objects without releasing them. In regards to tonic grasping, the more the patient tried to let go of the object, the more the grip of the object tightened. With focused effort the patient was able to let go of the object, but if distracted, the behaviour would re-commence. The patient could also forcibly release the grasped object by peeling her fingers away from contact with the object using the intact left hand. Additionally, the hand would scratch at the patient's leg to the extent that an orthotic device was required to prevent injury. Another patient reported not only tonic grasping towards objects nearby, but the alien hand would take hold of the patient's penis and engage in public masturbation.\n\nA distinct \"posterior variant\" form of alien hand syndrome is associated with damage to the posterolateral parietal lobe and/or occipital lobe of the brain. The movements in this situation tend to be more likely to withdraw the palmar surface of the hand away from sustained environmental contact rather than reaching out to grasp onto objects to produce palmar tactile stimulation, as is most often seen in the frontal form of the condition. In the frontal variant, tactile contact on the ventral surface of the palm and fingers facilitates finger flexion and grasp of the object through a positive feedback loop (i.e. the stimulus generates movement that reinforces, strengthens and sustains the triggering stimulation).\n\nIn contrast, in the posterior variant, tactile contact on the ventral surface of the palm and fingers is actively avoided through facilitation of extension of the fingers and withdrawal of the palm in a negative feedback loop (i.e. the stimulus, and even anticipation of stimulation of the palmar surface of the hand, generates movement of the palm and fingers that reduces and effectively counteracts and eliminates the triggering stimulation, or, in the case of anticipated palmar contact, decreases the likelihood of such contact). Alien movements in the posterior variant of the syndrome also tend to be less coordinated and show a coarse ataxic motion during active movement that is generally not observed in the frontal form of the condition. This is generally thought to be due to an optic form of ataxia since it is facilitated by the visual presence of an object with visual attention directed toward the object. The apparent instability could be due to an unstable interaction between the tactile avoidance tendency biasing toward withdrawal from the object, and the visually based acquisition bias tendency pushing toward an approach to the object.\n\nThe alien limb in the posterior variant of the syndrome may be seen to \"levitate\" upward into the air withdrawing away from contact surfaces through the activation of anti-gravity musculature. Alien hand movement in the posterior variant may show a typical posture, sometimes referred to as a \"parietal hand\" or the \"instinctive avoidance reaction\" (a term introduced by neurologist Derek Denny-Brown as an inverse form of the \"magnetic apraxia\" seen in the frontal variant, as noted above), in which the digits move into a highly extended position with active extension of the interphalangeal joints of the digits and hyper-extension of the metacarpophalangeal joints, and the palmar surface of the hand is actively pulled back away from approaching objects or up and away from supporting surfaces. The \"alien\" movements, however, remain purposeful and goal-directed, a point which clearly differentiates these movements from other disorganized non-purposeful forms of involuntary limb movement (e.g. athetosis, chorea, or myoclonus).\n\nIn both the frontal and the posterior variants of the alien hand syndrome, the patient's reactions to the limb's apparent capability to perform goal-directed actions independent of conscious volition is similar. In both of these variants of alien hand syndrome, the alien hand emerges in the hand contralateral to the damaged hemisphere.\n\nThere is no cure for the alien hand syndrome. However, the symptoms can be reduced and managed to some degree by keeping the alien hand occupied and involved in a task, for example by giving it an object to hold in its grasp. Specific learned tasks can restore voluntary control of the hand to a significant degree. One patient with the \"frontal\" form of alien hand who would reach out to grasp onto different objects (e.g., door handles) as he was walking was given a cane to hold in the alien hand while walking, even though he really did not need a cane for its usual purpose of assisting with balance and facilitating ambulation. With the cane firmly in the grasp of the alien hand, it would generally not release the grasp and drop the cane in order to reach out to grasp onto a different object. Other techniques proven to be effective includes; wedging the hand between the legs or slapping it; warm water application and visual or tactile contact. Additionally, Wu et al. found that an irritating alarm activated by biofeedback reduced the time the alien hand held an object.\n\nIn the presence of unilateral damage to a single cerebral hemisphere, there is generally a gradual reduction in the frequency of alien behaviors observed over time and a gradual restoration of voluntary control over the affected hand. Actually, when AHS originates from focal injury of acute onset, recovery usually occurs within a year. One theory is that neuroplasticity in the bihemispheric and subcortical brain systems involved in voluntary movement production can serve to re-establish the connection between the executive production process and the internal self-generation and registration process. Exactly how this may occur is not well understood, but a process of gradual recovery from alien hand syndrome when the damage is confined to a single cerebral hemisphere has been reported. In some instances, patients may resort to constraining the wayward, undesirable and sometimes embarrassing actions of the impaired hand by voluntarily grasping onto the forearm of the impaired hand using the intact hand. This observed behavior has been termed \"self-restriction\" or \"self-grasping\".\n\nIn another approach, the patient is trained to perform a specific task, such as moving the alien hand to contact a specific object or a highly salient environmental target, which is a movement that the patient can learn to generate voluntarily through focused training in order to effectively override the alien behavior. It is possible that some of this training produces a re-organization of premotor systems within the damaged hemisphere, or, alternatively, that ipsilateral control of the limb from the intact hemisphere may be expanded.\n\nAnother method involves simultaneously \"muffling\" the action of the alien hand and limiting the sensory feedback coming back to the hand from environmental contact by placing it in a restrictive \"cloak\" such as a specialized soft foam hand orthosis or, alternatively, an everyday oven mitt. Other patients have reported using an orthotic device to restrict perseverative grasping or restraining the alien hand by securing it to the bed pole. Of course, this can limit the degree to which the hand can participate in addressing functional goals for the patient and may be considered to be an unjustifiable restraint.\n\nTheoretically, this approach could slow down the process through which voluntary control of the hand is restored if the neuroplasticity that underlies recovery involves the recurrent exercise of voluntary will to control the actions of the hand in a functional context and the associated experiential reinforcement through successful willful suppression of the alien behavior.\n\nThe first known case described in the medical literature appeared in a detailed case report published in German in 1908 by the preeminent German neuro-psychiatrist, Kurt Goldstein. In this paper, Goldstein described a right-handed woman who had suffered a stroke affecting her left side from which she had partially recovered by the time she was seen. However, her left arm seemed as though it belonged to another person and performed actions that appeared to occur independent of her will.\n\nThe patient complained of a feeling of \"strangeness\" in relationship to the goal-directed movements of the left hand and insisted that \"someone else\" was moving the left hand, and that she was not moving it herself. When the left hand grasped an object, she could not voluntarily release it. The senses of touch and proprioception of the left side were impaired. The left hand would make spontaneous movements, such as wiping the face or rubbing the eyes, but these were relatively infrequent. With significant effort, she was able to move her left arm in response to spoken command, but conscious movements were slower or less precise than similar involuntary motions.\n\nGoldstein developed a \"doctrine of motor apraxia\" in which he discussed the generation of voluntary action and proposed a brain structure for temporal and spatial cognition, will and other higher cognitive processes. Goldstein maintained that a structure conceptually organizing both the body and external space was necessary for object perception as well as for voluntary action on external objects.\n\nIn his classic papers reviewing the wide variety of disconnection syndromes associated with focal brain pathology, Norman Geschwind commented that Kurt Goldstein \"was perhaps the first to stress the non-unity of the personality in patients with callosal section, and its possible psychiatric effects\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26225466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26225466", "title": "B reader", "text": "B reader\n\nA \"B\" reader is a physician certified by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) as demonstrating proficiency in classifying radiographs of the pneumoconioses.\n\nIn 1974, after studies of surveillance programs for coal miners revealed unacceptable degrees of reader variability, NIOSH began the \"B\" reader program (so named because of the \"Black\" lung or Coal Workers' X-ray Surveillance Program), with the intent to train and certify physicians in the ILO Classification system (for classifying radiographs for the presence of pneumoconiosis), so as to insure that physicians using this system were as accurate and precise as possible. The \"B\" reader certification examination system went into full operation in 1978. The current examination involves a timed classification of 125 radiographs. A physician must pass the certification examination to be a \"B\" reader and certification lasts 4 years. Examinations are offered monthly at the Appalachian Laboratory for Occupational Safety and Health (ALOSH) located in Morgantown, West Virginia.\n\nThe original objective of the \"B\" reader examination was to identify physicians who were qualified to serve in national pneumoconiosis programs, particularly regarding epidemiological research and compensation of coal miners. Currently, \"B\" readers are involved with epidemiological evaluation, surveillance, and worker monitoring programs involving many types of pneumoconioses, not just the Coal Workers' programs. The \"B\" reader program aims to ensure competency in radiographic reading by evaluating the ability of readers to classify a test set of radiographs, thereby creating and maintaining a pool of qualified readers having the skills and ability to provide accurate and precise ILO classifications.\n\nAs of 2/16/10 there were 272 NIOSH-certified \"B\" readers in the USA and 50 international \"B\" readers.\n\nAs of 10/20/17, there were 181 NIOSH-certified \"B\" readers in the USA and 58 international \"B\" readers according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website.\n\nInter-reader variability occurs when readers disagree amongst themselves on a classification. Intra-reader variability occurs when a reader classifies a radiograph differently on different occasions. Reader variability was one of the factors prompting the ILO to develop the ILO Classification system and was a catalyst for NIOSH's development of the \"B\" reader program.\n\nNIOSH notes that excessive, reader variability can reduce the quality and utility of the data. Inter-reader variability can be random or systematic. Systematic variation between readers, in which one reader consistently reports more or less abnormality than another, is related to bias, according to NIOSH. Bias can occur when a reader has information concerning the radiograph being classified (including information regarding the worker, such as exposure), by consciously or unconsciously influencing their classification. In a study comparing interpretations by \"B\" readers retained by lawyers in asbestos litigation compared to those from an independent blinded panel of \"B\" readers, there was an exceptionally high rate of disagreement (95.9% positive versus 4.5% positive, respectively).\n\nNIOSH has established the following Code of Ethics for \"B\" readers:\n\nNIOSH has four categories of recommended practices:\n"}
{"id": "5582215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5582215", "title": "Child Protective Services", "text": "Child Protective Services\n\nChild Protective Services (CPS) is the name of a governmental agency in many states of the United States responsible for providing child protection, which includes responding to reports of child abuse or neglect. Some states use other names, often attempting to reflect more family-centered (as opposed to child-centered) practices, such as \"Department of Children & Family Services\" (DCFS). CPS is also known by the name of \"Department of Social Services\" (DSS) or simply \"Social Services\".\n\nList of Other Names and Acronyms for CPS:\n\nCPS/DCF is a department under a state's Health and Human Services organization.\n\nU.S. federal laws that govern CPS agencies include:\n\nIn 1690, in what is now the Americas, there were criminal court cases involving child abuse. In 1692, states and municipalities identified care for abused and neglected children as the responsibility of local government and private institutions. In 1696, The Kingdom of England first used the legal principle of \"parens patriae,\" which gave the royal crown care of \"charities, infants, idiots, and lunatics returned to the chancery.\" This principal of \"parens patriae\" has been identified as the statutory basis for U.S. governmental intervention in families' child rearing practices.\n\nIn 1825, states enacted laws giving social-welfare agencies the right to remove neglected children from their parents and from the streets. These children were placed in almshouses, in orphanages and with other families. In 1835, the Humane Society founded the National Federation of Child Rescue agencies to investigate child maltreatment. In the late-19th century, private child protection agenciesmodeled after existing animal protection organizationsdeveloped to investigate reports of child maltreatment, present cases in court and advocate for child welfare legislation.\n\nIn 1853, the Children's Aid Society was founded in response to the problem of orphaned or abandoned children living in New York City. Rather than allow these children to become institutionalized or continue to live on the streets, the children were placed in the first “foster” homes, typically with the intention of helping these families work their farms as slave labor.\n\nIn 1874, the first case of child abuse was criminally prosecuted in what has come to be known as the \"case of Mary Ellen.\" Outrage over this case started an organized effort against child maltreatment In 1909, President Theodore Roosevelt convened the White House Conference on Child Dependency, which created a publicly funded volunteer organization to \"establish and publicize standards of child care.\" By 1926, 18 states had some version of county child welfare boards whose purpose was to coordinate public and private child related work. Issues of abuse and neglect were addressed in the Social Security Act in 1930, which provided funding for intervention for “neglected and dependent children in danger of becoming delinquent.” \n\nIn 1912, the federal Children's Bureau was established with a mandate that included services related to child maltreatment. In 1958, amendments to the Social Security Act mandated that states fund child protection efforts. In 1962, professional and media interest in child maltreatment was sparked by the publication of C. Henry Kempe and associates' \"The battered child syndrome\" in JAMA. By the mid-1960s, in response to public concern that resulted from this article, 49 U.S. states passed child-abuse reporting laws. In 1974, these efforts by the states culminated in the passage of the federal Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA; Public Law 93-247) providing federal funding for wide-ranging federal and state child-maltreatment research and services. In 1980, Congress passed the first comprehensive federal child protective services act, the Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-272), which focused on family preservation efforts to help keep families together and children out of foster care or other out-of-home placement options.\n\nPartly funded by the federal government, Child Protective Services (CPS) agencies were first established in response to the 1974 CAPTA which mandated that all states establish procedures to investigate suspected incidents of child maltreatment.\n\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, due to improved technology in diagnostic radiology, the medical profession began to take notice of what they believed to be intentional injuries, the so-called \"Shaken Baby Syndrome.\" \n\nIn 1973, Congress took the first steps toward enacting federal legislature to address the issues of poverty and minorities. The Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act was passed in 1974, which required states \"to prevent, identify and treat child abuse and neglect.\"\n\nShortly thereafter, in 1978, the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) was passed in response to attempts to destroy the Native Americans by taking large numbers of Native American children, separating them from their tribes and placed in foster care or sending them to far away schools where they were maltreated, lost and sometimes died. This legislation not only opened the door for consideration of cultural issues while stressing ideas that children should be with their families, leading to the beginnings of family preservation programs. In 1980, the Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act was introduced as a way to manage the high numbers of children in placement. Although this legislation addressed some of the complaints from earlier pieces of legislation around destroying due process for parents, these changes were not designed to alleviate the high numbers of children in placement or continuing delays in permanence. This led to the introduction of the home visitation models, which provided funding to private agencies to force parents into intensive services in cases where the children were not favorable on the adoption market.\n\nIn addition to family services, the focus of federal child welfare policy changed to try to address permanence for the large numbers of foster children care. Several pieces of federal legislation attempted to ease the process of forcing adoption and taking away parental rights, including incentives for adoption and removal with the Adoption Assistance Act; the 1988 Child Abuse Prevention, Adoption, and Family Services Act; and the 1992 Child Abuse, Domestic Violence, Adoption, and Family Services Act. The 1994 Multi-Ethnic Placement Act, which was revised in 1996 to add the Interethnic Placement Provisions, also attempted to promote permanency through adoption, creating regulations that adoptions could not be delayed or denied due to issues of due process, fairness, Constitutional compliance, parental rights, the children's right, discrimination, race, color, or national origin of the child or the adoptive parent.\n\nAll of these policies led up to the 1997 Adoption and Safe Families Act (ASFA), much of which guides current practice. Changes in the Adoptions and Safe Families Act showed an interest in cosmetically shifting the emphasis towards children's health and safety concerns and away from a policy of reuniting children with their birth parents without regard to prior abusiveness. This law requires counties to provide \"reasonable efforts\" to preserve or reunify families, but required that states move to terminate parental rights for children who had been in foster care for 15 out of the last 22 months, with several exceptions.\n\nThe United Kingdom has a comprehensive child welfare system under which local authorities have duties and responsibilities towards children in need in their area. This covers provision of advice and services, accommodation and care of children who become uncared for, and also the capacity to initiate proceedings for the removal of children from their parents care/care proceedings. The criteria for the latter is 'significant harm' which covers physical, sexual and emotional abuse and neglect. In appropriate cases the Care Plan before the Court will be for adoption. The Local Authorities also run adoption services both for children put up for adoption voluntarily and those becoming available for adoption through Court proceedings. The basic legal principle in all public and private proceedings concerning children, under the Children Act 1989, is that the welfare of the child is paramount. In recognition of attachment issues, social work good practice requires a minimal number of moves and the 1989 Children Act enshrines the principle that delay is inimical to a child's welfare. Care proceedings have a time frame of 26 weeks (although capable of extension under certain circumstances) and concurrent planning is required. The final Care Plan put forward by the Local Authority is required to provide a plan for permanence, whether with parents, family members, long-term foster parents or adopters. The Court routinely joins children as parties to their own Care proceedings, and their best interests are explored and advanced by Children's Guardians, independent Social Workers who specialise in representation of children in proceedings. It is a feature of Care proceedings that judges of all levels are expected to adhere to the recommendations of the Children's Guardian unless there are cogent reasons not to. Nevertheless, 'drift' and multiple placements still occur as many older children are difficult to place or maintain in placements. The role of Independent Visitor, a voluntary post, was created in the United Kingdom under the 1989 Children Act to befriend and assist children and young people in care.\n\nIn England, Wales and Scotland, there never has been a statutory obligation to report alleged child abuse to the Police. However both the Children Act 1989 and 2004 makes clear a statutory obligation on all professionals to report suspected child abuse.\n\nThe statutory guidance Working Together to Safeguard Children 2006 created the role of Local Authority Designated Officer, This officer is responsible for managing allegations of abuse against adults who work with children (Teachers, Social Workers, Church leaders, Youth Workers etc.).\n\nLocal Safeguarding Children Boards (LSCBs) are responsible ensuring agencies and professionals, in their area, effectively safeguard and promote the welfare of children. In the event of the death or serious injury of a child, LSCBs can initiate a 'Serious Case Review' aimed at identifying agency failings and improving future practice.\n\nThe planned ContactPoint database, under which information on children is shared between professionals, has been halted by the newly elected coalition government (May 2010). The database was aimed at improving information sharing across agencies. Lack of information sharing had been identified as a failing in numerous high-profile child death cases. Critics of the scheme claimed it was evidence of a 'big brother state' and too expensive to introduce.\n\nWorking Together to Safeguard Children 2006 (updated in 2010) and the subsequent 'The Protection of Children in England: A Progress Report' (Laming, 2009) continue to promote the sharing of data between those working with vulnerable children.\n\nA child in suitable cases can be made a ward of court and no decisions about the child or changes in its life can be made without the leave of the High Court.\n\nIn England the Murder of Victoria Climbié was largely responsible for various changes in child protection in England, including the formation of the Every Child Matters programme in 2003. A similar programme – Getting it Right for Every Child – GIRFEC was established in Scotland in 2008.\n\nA bill is being debated in the UK parliament which many people and organisations fear will take away the statutory duty local authorities have to protect vulnerable children.\n\nIn Ontario, services are provided by independent Children's Aid Societies. The societies receive funding from, and are under the supervision of the Ontario Ministry of Children and Youth Services. However, they are regarded as a Non-governmental organization (NGO) which allows the CAS a large degree of autonomy from interference or direction in the day-to-day running of CAS by the Ministry. The Child and Family Services Review Board exists to investigate complaints against CAS and maintains authority to act against the societies.\n\nThe Patronato Nacional de la Infancia (PANI) is responsible for Child Protection in Costa Rica.\n\nThe agency was founded in 1930 by Dr. Luis Felipe Gonzalez Flores, a Costa Rican magnate at the time. It was founded to combat infant mortality, that at the time, was rampant in Costa Rica. The idea was to put infants up for adoption that the mother could not afford to support (abortion is a crime in Costa Rica).\n\nIn 1949, after the Costa Rican Civil War, a new constitution was written, it called for the agency to be an autonomous institution in the government, autonomous from any ministry.\n\nToday the focus is on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The agency still favors adoption, since abortion is illegal in Costa Rica.\n\nFor decades, before 1990, there had been pressure from NGOs and children's organizations for protecting children battered by poverty and hunger and despised by sections of the community in Brazil. After this, became a chapter on the rights of children and adolescents in The Constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil. In 1990, an even greater victory, when the Statute of the Child and Adolescent was approved by both houses of the National Congress, legally obligating the Government to protect child rights. This ensured a comprehensive child welfare system in Brazil. To ensure that the Statute's provisions are enforced, Councils for the Rights of the Child and Adolescent were set up at federal, state and local levels.\n\nThe National Council for the Rights of Children and Adolescents (CONANDA) is Federal Authority. The Councils of Guardianship are the Local Authorities and have duties and responsibilities towards children in their area. All work is based in STATUTE OF THE CHILD AND ADOLESCENT (Law No. 8,069, July 13, 1990).\n\nChildren with histories of maltreatment, such as physical and psychological neglect, physical abuse, and sexual abuse, are at risk of developing psychiatric problems. Such children are at risk of developing a disorganized attachment. Disorganized attachment is associated with a number of developmental problems, including dissociative symptoms, as well as depressive, anxiety, and acting-out symptoms.\n\nGenerally speaking, a report must be made when an individual knows or has reasonable cause to believe or suspect that a child has been subjected to abuse or neglect. These standards guide mandatory reporters in deciding whether to make a report to child protective services.\n\nIn addition to defining acts or omissions that constitute child abuse or neglect, several states' statutes provide specific definitions of persons who can get reported to child protective services as perpetrators of abuse or neglect. These are persons who have some relationship or regular responsibility for the child. This generally includes parents, grandparents, guardians, foster parents, relatives, legal guardians or bystanders. Once taken away from home, the stated goal of CPS is to reunite the child with their family. In some cases, due to the nature of abuse children are not able to see or converse with the abusers. If parents fail to complete Court Ordered terms and conditions, the children in care may never return home.\n\nThe United States government's Administration for Children and Families reported that in 2004 approximately 3.5 million children were involved in investigations of alleged abuse or neglect in the US, while an estimated 872,000 children were determined to have been abused or neglected, and an estimated 1,490 children died that year because of abuse or neglect. In 2007, 1,760 children died as the result of child abuse and neglect. Child abuse impacts the most vulnerable populations, with children under age five years accounting for 76% of fatalities. In 2008, 8.3 children per 1000 were victims of child abuse and neglect and 10.2 children per 1000 were in out of home placement.\n\nOn September 30, 2010, there were approximately 400,000 children in foster care in the U.S. of which 36% percent were ages 5 and under. During that same period, almost 120,000 birth to five year-olds entered foster care and a little under 100,000 exited foster care. U.S. Child Protective Services (CPS) received a little over 2.5 million reports of child maltreatment in 2009 of which 61.9% were assigned to an investigation. Research using national data on recidivism indicates that 22% of children were rereported within a 2-year period and that 7% of these rereports were substantiated. In 2016, the smallest US state by area reported 2,765 of 223,956 investigations demonstrated child neglect.\n\nIn order to understand CPS recidivism in the U.S., there are several terms that readers must familiarize themselves with. Two often-used terms in CPS recidivism are rereport (also known as rereferral) and recurrence. Either of the two can occur after an initial report of child abuse or neglect called an index report. Although the definitions of rereport and recurrence is not consistent, the general difference is that a rereport is a subsequent report of child abuse or neglect after an initial report (also known as an index report) whereas recurrence refers to a confirmed (also known as substantiated) rereport after an initial report of child abuse and neglect. Borrowing from the definition used by Pecora et al. (2000), recidivism is defined as, “Recurring child abuse and neglect, the subsequent or repeated maltreatment of a child after identification to public authorities.” It is important to highlight that this definition is not all-inclusive because it does not include abused children who are not reported to authorities.\n\nThere are three main sources of recidivism data in the U.S.—the National Child Abuse and Neglect Data System (NCANDS), the National Survey of Child and Adolescent Well-Being (NSCAW), and the National Incidence Study (NIS)—and they all have their own respective strengths and weaknesses. NCANDS was established in 1974, and it consists of administrative data of all reports of suspected child abuse and neglect investigated by CPS. NSCAW was established in 1996 and is similar to NCANDS in that it only includes reports of child abuse and neglect investigated by CPS, but it adds clinical measures related to child and family well-being that NCANDS is lacking. NIS was established in 1974, and it consists of data collected from CPS as well. However, it attempts to gather a more comprehensive picture of the incidence of child abuse and neglect by collecting data from other reporting sources called community sentinels.\n\nBrenda Scott, in her 1994 book \"Out of Control: Who's Watching Our Child Protection Agencies\", criticizes CPS, stating, \"Child Protective Services is out of control. The system, as it operates today, should be scrapped. If children are to be protected in their homes and in the system, radical new guidelines must be adopted. At the core of the problem is the antifamily mindset of CPS. Removal is the first resort, not the last. With insufficient checks and balances, the system that was designed to protect children has become the greatest perpetrator of harm.\"\n\nThe Texas Department of Family and Protective Services had itself been an object of reports of unusual numbers of poisonings, death, rapes and pregnancies of children under its care since 2004. The Texas Family and Protective Services Crisis Management Team was created by executive order after the critical report Forgotten Children of 2004.\n\nTexas Child Protective Services was hit with a rare if not unprecedented legal sanction for a \"groundless cause of action\" and ordered to pay $32,000 of the Spring family's attorney fees. Judge Schneider wrote in a 13-page order, \"The offensive conduct by (CPS) has significantly interfered with the legitimate exercise of the traditional core functions of this court.\"\n\nIn April 2008, the largest child protection action in American history raised questions as the CPS in Texas removed hundreds of minor children, infants, and women incorrectly believed to be children from the YFZ Ranch polygamist community, with the assistance of heavily armed police with an armored personnel carrier. Investigators, including supervisor Angie Voss convinced a judge that all of the children were at risk of child abuse because they were all being groomed for under-age marriage. The state supreme court disagreed, releasing most children back to their families. Investigations would result in criminal charges against some men in the community.\n\nGene Grounds of Victim Relief Ministries commended CPS workers in the Texas operation as exhibiting compassion, professionalism and caring concern. However, CPS performance was questioned by workers from the Hill Country Community Mental Health-Mental Retardation Center. One wrote \"I have never seen women and children treated this poorly, not to mention their civil rights being disregarded in this manner\" after assisting at the emergency shelter. Others who were previously forbidden to discuss conditions working with CPS later produced unsigned written reports expressed anger at the CPS traumatizing the children, and disregarding rights of mothers who appeared to be good parents of healthy, well-behaved children. CPS threatened some MHMR workers with arrest, and the entire mental health support was dismissed the second week due to being \"too compassionate.\" Workers believed poor sanitary conditions at the shelter allowed respiratory infections and chicken pox to spread.\n\nThe Texas Department of Family and Protective Services, as with other states, had itself been an object of reports of unusual numbers of poisonings, death, rapes and pregnancies of children under its care since 2004. The Texas Family and Protective Services Crisis Management Team was created by executive order after the critical report Forgotten Children of 2004. Texas Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn made a statement in 2006 about the Texas foster care system. In Fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively 30, 38 and 48 foster children died in the state's care. The number of foster children in the state's care increased 24 percent to 32,474 in Fiscal 2005, while the number of deaths increased 60 percent. Compared to the general population, a child is four times more likely to die in the Texas foster care system. In 2004, about 100 children were treated for poisoning from medications; 63 were treated for rape that occurred while under state care including four-year old twin boys, and 142 children gave birth, though others believe Ms. Strayhorn's report was not scientifically researched, and that major reforms need to be put in place to assure that children in the conservatorship of the state get as much attention as those at risk in their homes.\n\nIn the United States, data suggests that a disproportionate number of minority children, particularly African American and Native American children, enter the foster care system. National data in the United States provides evidence that disproportionality may vary throughout the course of a child's involvement with the child welfare system. Differing rates of disproportionality are seen at key decision points including the reporting of abuse, substantiation of abuse, and placement into foster care. Additionally, once they enter foster care, research suggests that they are likely to remain in care longer.\nResearch has shown that there is no difference in the rate of abuse and neglect among minority populations when compared to Caucasian children that would account for the disparity.\nThe Juvenile Justice system has also been challenged by disproportionate negative contact of minority children. Because of the overlap in these systems, it is likely that this phenomenon within multiple systems may be related.\n\nIn May 2007, the United States 9th Circuit Court of Appeals found in \"Rogers v. County of San Joaquin\", No. 05-16071 that a CPS social worker who removed children from their natural parents into foster care without obtaining judicial authorization was acting without due process and without exigency (emergency conditions) violated the 14th Amendment and Title 42 United State Code Section 1983. The Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution says that a state may not make a law that abridges \"... the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States\" and no state may \"deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.\" Title 42 United States Code Section 1983 states that citizens can sue in federal courts any person who acting under a color of law to deprive the citizens of their civil rights under the pretext of a regulation of a state, \"See\".\n\nIn a case of \"Santosky v. Kramer, 455 US 745\" (1982), the Supreme Court reviewed a case when Department of Social Services removed two younger children from their natural parents only because the parents had been previously found negligent toward their oldest daughter. When the third child was only three days old, DSS transferred him to a foster home on the ground that immediate removal was necessary to avoid imminent danger to his life or health. The Supreme Court vacated previous judgment and stated: \"Before a State may sever completely and irrevocably the rights of parents in their natural child, due process requires that the State support its allegations by at least clear and convincing evidence. But until the State proves parental unfitness, the child and their parents share a vital interest in preventing erroneous termination of their natural relationship\".\n\nA District of Columbia Court of Appeals concluded that the lower trial court erred in rejecting the relative custodial arrangement selected by the natural mother who tried to preserve her relationship with the child. The previous judgment granting the foster mother's adoption petition was reversed, the case remanded to the trial court to vacate the orders granting adoption and denying custody, and to enter an order granting custody to the child's relative.\n\nIn 2010 an ex-foster child was awarded $30 million by jury trial in California (Santa Clara County) for sexual abuse damages that happened to him in foster home from 1995 to 1999; he was represented by attorney Stephen John Estey. The foster parent, John Jackson, was licensed by state despite the fact that he abused his own wife and son, overdosed on drugs and was arrested for drunken driving. In 2006, Jackson was convicted in Santa Clara County of nine counts of lewd or lascivious acts on a child by force, violence, duress, menace and fear and seven counts of lewd or lascivious acts on a child under 14, according to the Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office. The sex acts he forced the children in his foster care to perform sent him to prison for 220 years. Later in 2010, Giarretto Institute, the private foster family agency responsible for licensing and monitoring Jackson's foster home and others, also was found to be negligent and liable for 75 percent of the abuse that was inflicted on the victim, and Jackson was liable for the rest. This was a landmark case that has since set a precedent in future proceedings against the Department of Children and Families.\n\nIn 2009 Oregon Department of Human Services has agreed to pay $2 million into a fund for the future care of twins who were allegedly abused by their foster parents; it was the largest such settlement in the agency's history. According to the civil rights suit filed on request of twins' adoptive mother in December 2007 in U.S. Federal Court, kids were kept in makeshift cages—cribs covered with chicken wire secured by duct tape—in a darkened bedroom known as \"the dungeon.\" The brother and sister often went without food, water or human touch. The boy, who had a shunt put into his head at birth to drain fluid, didn't receive medical attention, so when police rescued the twins he was nearly comatose. The same foster family previously took in their care hundreds of other children over nearly four decades. DHS said the foster parents deceived child welfare workers during the checkup visits.\n\nSeveral lawsuits were brought in 2008 against the Florida Department of Children & Families (DCF), accusing it of mishandling reports that Thomas Ferrara, 79, a foster parent, was molesting girls. The suits claimed that though there were records of sexual misconduct allegations against Ferrara in 1992, 1996, and 1999, the DCF continued to place foster children with Ferrara and his then-wife until 2000. Ferrara was arrested in 2001 after a 9-year-old girl told detectives he regularly molested her over two years and threatened to hurt her mother if she told anyone. Records show that Ferrara had as many as 400 children go through his home during his 16 years as a licensed foster parent from 1984 to 2000. Officials stated that the lawsuits over Ferrara end up costing the DCF almost $2.26 million. Similarly, in 2007 Florida's DCF paid $1.2 million to settle a lawsuit that alleged DCF ignored complaints that another mentally challenged Immokalee girl was being raped by her foster father, Bonifacio Velazquez, until the 15-year-old gave birth to a child.\n\nIn a class action lawsuit Charlie and Nadine H. v. McGreevey was filed in federal court by \"Children’s Rights\" New York organization on behalf of children in the custody of the New Jersey Division of Youth and Family Services (DYFS). The complaint alleged violations of the children's constitutional rights and their rights under Title IV-E of the Social Security Act, the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, Early Periodic Screening Diagnosis and Treatment, 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the Multiethnic Placement Act (MEPA). In July 2002, the federal court granted plaintiffs’ experts access to 500 children’s case files, allowing plaintiffs to collect information concerning harm to children in foster care through a case record review. These files revealed numerous cases in which foster children were abused, and DYFS failed to take proper action. On June 9, 2004, the child welfare panel appointed by the parties approved the NJ State’s Reform Plan. The court accepted the plan on June 17, 2004. The same organization filed similar lawsuits against other states in recent years that caused some of the states to start child welfare reforms.\n\nIn 2007 Deanna Fogarty-Hardwick obtained a jury verdict against Orange County (California) and two of its social workers for violating her Fourteenth Amendment rights to familial association. The $4.9 million verdict grew to a $9.5 million judgment as the County lost each of its successive appeals. The case finally ended in 2011 when the United States Supreme Court denied Orange County's request to overturn the verdict.\n\nIn April 2013, Child Protective Services in Sacramento sent in police to forcibly remove a 5-month-old baby from the care of parents.\n\nAlex and Anna Nikolayev took their baby Sammy out of Sutter Memorial Hospital and sought a second opinion at Kaiser Permanente, a competing hospital, for Sammy’s flu-like symptoms. Police arrived at Kaiser and questioned the couple and doctors. Once Sammy had been fully cleared to leave the hospital, the couple went home, but the following day police arrived and took Sammy. On June 25, 2013 the case against the family was dismissed and the family filed a lawsuit against CPS and the Sacramento Police Department.\n\nIn Stockton, California, two children were taken away from Vuk and Verica Nastić in June 2010 after the children's naked photos were found on the father's computer. Such photos are common in Serbian culture. Furthermore, parents claim that their ethnic and religious rights have been violated – children are not permitted to speak Serbian, nor to meet with their parents for orthodox Christmas. They can meet only mother once a week. Children have suffered psychological traumas due to their separation from parents. Polygraph showed that father did not abuse children. Trial is set for January 26. Psychologists from Serbia stated that few hours of conversation with children are enough to see whether they have been abused. Children were taken from their family 7 months ago. FBI started an investigation against the CPS. The children were reunited with their parents in February 2011.\n\nIn a nationwide study, researchers examined children in 595 families over a period of 9 years. They discovered that in the households where child abuse was substantiated by evidence, risk factors remained unchanged during interviews with the families. The study found that investigated subjects were not perceptibly different from noninvestigated subjects in social support, family functioning, poverty, maternal education, or child behavior problems after adjusting for baseline risk factors and that mothers of investigated subjects had more depressive symptoms than mothers of noninvestigated peers at the child's age of 8 years.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53375780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53375780", "title": "Childhood granulomatous periorificial dermatitis", "text": "Childhood granulomatous periorificial dermatitis\n\nChildhood granulomatous periorificial dermatitis (CGPD) , also known as Gianotti-type perioral dermatitis or facial Afro-Caribbean childhood eruption (FACE) is a rare benign granulomatous skin disease of unknown cause. The disorder was first described in 1970 by Gianotti in a case series of five children. CGPD is more common in boys than girls. \n\nCGPD is characterized by the presence of small, raised, dome-shaped, flesh-colored or yellow-brown papules primarily distributed around the mouth, eyes, and nose. Affected children may also have papules on the ears, eyelids, cheeks, forehead, and nose. CGPD skin lesions rarely affect areas of the skin other than the face.\n\nThe cause of CGPD is unknown.\n\nThe approach to diagnosing CGPD is controversial. Certain dermatologists suggest that ruling out infectious and allergic causes of similar skin eruptions and a skin biopsy demonstrating features consistent with CGPD is adequate for diagnosis. In contrast, other dermatologists advocate for performing a complete history and physical examination and obtaining laboratories and appropriate imaging to rule out cutaneous sarcoidosis. On microscopy, non-tuberculous granulomas with surrounding lymphocytes clustered around hair follicles may be seen; additionally, infiltrates of epithelioid macrophages, lymphocytes, and giant cells may also be seen. \n\nSeveral conditions exhibit skin findings similar to those of CGPD. These conditions include perioral dermatitis, acne vulgaris, granulomatous rosacea, contact dermatitis, folliculitis, atopic dermatitis, cheilitis, medication-induced acneiform eruptions, lupus miliaris disseminatus faciei, benign cephalic histiocytosis, granulosis rubra nasi, xanthomas, zinc deficiency, glucagonoma, cutaneous sarcoidosis, and scabies.\n\nTreatment recommendations for CGPD vary and may include observation without treatment, stopping the use of topical corticosteroids, and the use of topical or oral antibiotics as well as isotretinoin. Topical antibiotics such as metronidazole and erythromycin have been used for CGPD. Oral antibiotics of the tetracycline class such as minocycline, doxycycline, and tetracycline have been recommended for CGPD. Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole has also been used. The use of oral systemic antibiotics is limited by side effects such as nausea, vomiting, and sensitivity of the skin to sunlight. Tetracycline antibiotics are not recommended for children under the age of 8 since tetracyclines are known to deposit in teeth (thereby staining them) and impair bone growth in children. \n\nThe use of calcineurin inhibitor creams such as tacrolimus or pimecrolimus on the skin is controversial and results have been mixed. Certain studies found the use of topical calcineurin inhibitors led to resolution of CGPD whereas others saw incomplete resolution or prolonged symptoms. Topical azelaic acid has been used successfully to treat CGPD. Immediate discontinuation of topical corticosteroids is recommended since corticosteroids are thought to worsen CGPD.\n\nCGPD is known to be a temporary skin disease with a benign course. The skin papules typically resolve after a few months to a few years. After CGPD resolves, the skin may return to normal without scarring or may have small atrophic depressions with collagen loss, milia, or small pit-like scars.\n\nCGPD occurs most often in children of Afro-Caribbean descent before puberty though reports of this disease occurring in Asian and Caucasian children have also been described. Due to the limited number of reported cases, it remains controversial whether CGPD occurs more often in African children than in children of other races. CGPD is more common in boys than girls.\n\nGianotti et. al first described CGPD in five Italian children in 1970. In 1990, Williams et. al described a similar skin eruption in five children of Afro-Caribbean descent and coined the proposed term \"facial Afro-Caribbean childhood eruption (FACE)\". Subsequently, another article by Katz and Lesher first introduced the term CGPD since some reported cases were not found in children of Afro-Caribbean descent and to avoid confusion with perioral dermatitis.\n\nPerioral dermatitis\n"}
{"id": "20753905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20753905", "title": "Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc.", "text": "Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc.\n\nCipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U.S. 504 (1992), was a United States Supreme Court case. In a split opinion, the Court held that the Surgeon General's warning did not preclude lawsuits by smokers against tobacco companies on the basis of several claims. The case examined whether tobacco companies could be liable for not warning the consumer \"adequately\" of the dangers of cigarettes as well as ultimately held the stance that smoking was in fact a free choice. The ruling also questioned the Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act of 1965 to determine whether the warning labels on the cigarette products by law had to be less or more alarming than the warning issued .\n\nThe warning at issue said: \"Warning: The Surgeon General has determined that cigarette smoking is dangerous to your health.\"\nThe court's holding and some of Justice Stevens's reasoning enjoyed majority support, but the opinion eventually gained full majority support 16 years later in \"Altria Group v. Good\".\n\nThe relationship that the American people has had with tobacco companies can be said to be tumultuous and is documented. Tobacco has always been a staple economic resource in the fabric of the American economy, even in trade amongst Native American tribes. Tobacco crops were instrumental in the early economic development of the United States in colonial times. Following this period was a rise in the cigarette. Tobacco and smoking began to be engraved in the culture and lifestyle of the American public, associated with things such as \"sexy, cool, masculine\".\n\nThe popularity of tobacco was soon replaced with skepticism and many wanting to know the health risks of smoking. Research and analysis followed in order to understand these risks, with shocking conclusions and connections to diseases( coronary disease, coronary heart disease, peripheral arterial occlusive disease, cerebrovascular disease, lung cancer, cancer of the larynx, oral cancer, cancer of the esophagus, cancer of the bladder, cancer of the pancreas) that left many in shock. Public Health advocates urged for the banning of cigarette sales and the overall production of cigarettes in order to protect the public.\n\nWith the battle between tobacco companies and public health advocates ensuing, litigation against tobacco companies became the next step. From the 1950s on, there began to be litigation filed against tobacco companies to be liable for injuries and/or consequences from smoking cigarettes. Cases such as Pritchard v. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. , \"Fine v. Philip Morris, Inc.\" consisted of patients blaming cigarettes for their current health conditions and wanting tobacco companies to be held liable. Many of these cases were victories for tobacco companies, often being that litigants in the beginning of this new era of lawsuits against tobacco were not able to prove the concrete association between smoking and diseases aforementioned.\n\nBy the 1970s, the cultural tide on smoking had once again changed. With medical evidence more advanced than in previous decades, the association between smoking and diseases like cancer was becoming ever more prevalent, leaving tobacco companies less options to hide from this truth. Furthermore, the Surgeon General's Warning in 1964 served as a final piece needed to close the gap between the two concepts. In addition to liability laws being changed from the time of the 1950s, plaintiffs no longer had to prove negligence on the part of the company with regards to their product but expose a defect. With the restrictions becoming more laxed, new lawsuits surged once again against tobacco companies.\n\nRose Cipollone began smoking at the age of sixteen. She continually smoked Chesterfield cigarettes—up to a pack and a half a pack per day. It wasn't until she was pregnant and at her husband Antonio Cipollone's request that she attempted to quit smoking. Though she cut down on her regular smoking of a pack and a half per day, she still secretly smoked during her pregnancy. In 1955, Rose switched to Liggett and Myer brand of cigarettes on the basis that their “pure white Miracle Tip” filter appeared to be a healthier alternative compared to Chesterfield Cigarettes. In 1968, Rose switched to smoking Parliament brand cigarettes, citing conditions attributed to her health as her reasoning. Parliaments were advertised to have a recessed filter and lower tar content than that of other competitive cigarette brands. Finally, Rose switched to Lorillard’s True cigarettes under the recommendation of her physician. Her options at this point were to either quit smoking or switch to this brand of cigarette with its advertised plastic filter inserts. Rose chose the latter option, and continued to smoke with the suggested brand of her physician.\n\nWhile Rose was trying to decide which brand of cigarettes was right for her, she simultaneously was suffering the health of effects of smoking. In the mid-1960s, Rose began to develop a smokers’ cough, as well as problems such as chest pain and hypertension. In 1981, doctors found a carcinogenic spot on her right lung and performed a partial lung resection. After the multitudes of consultations and operations so far in her life, Rose still continued to smoke, “though often now in secret\", claimed Rose from an unknown source. In 1982, the cancer had spread to her lower and middle right lung, and Cipollone had surgery to remove the entire lung as well as a large adrenal mass in 1983. Rose Cipollone died on October 24, 1984, after her lung cancer had spread and become inoperable.\n\nIt wasn't until the year before Rose Cipollone's death that she met Marc Edell. Recommended by her chest surgeon, Marc Edell was skilled in the art of going after companies and their negligence to protect consumer health. Edell had previously represented the Asbestos Companies in their defense in regard to the health-related claims brought against them. From that case, Edell became familiar with “pulmonary pathology and risks of smoking” and became interested in litigation against the tobacco industry. In need of a client, Edell took on Cipollone’s case and filed suit in U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Liggett and Myers, Philip Morris, and Lorillard composed of fourteen tort complaints on August 1, 1983, just over a year before her death.\n\nEdell planned to argue a case based on the cause of Cipollone's death: nicotine from her cigarettes. He gathered facts to bring a series of claims to the court that argued the following:\nLiggett and Myers, Philip Morris, and Lorillard all cited the 1965 Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertisement Act. The companies argued the act supported preempted independent state regulation of tobacco and therefore prevented state litigation, making the tobacco industry immune to suits. From there, they motioned to dismiss the case. The trial judge, H. Lee Sarokin, ruled in favor of Cipollone, stating that while state legislatures are prohibited from requiring specific warning labels and regulation of them, Edell's tactic of calling into question the inadequacy of the ones already present under the government was acceptable. The ruling was later overturned on interlocutory appeal by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. However, the appellate court did allow the case to be retried in district court on the condition that no claims regarding advertisement and promotion could be made. Edell accepted that condition and prepared for retrial.\n\nIn the retrial, Edell was not allowed to enter evidence claiming that Liggett & Myers had worked on the creation of a safer cigarette. He also was not allowed to bring evidence regarding the tobacco industry’s “duty to warn” of the dangers of cigarette smoking.\n\nEdell strengthened his case with his access to 300,000 pages of internal documents of the tobacco companies. These documents included compelling and damaging evidence that the tobacco companies had proof, backed by research dating back to the 1940s, that nicotine was addictive and potentially carcinogenic. Before the trial could begin however, the battle over the use of these documents was carried out. The tobacco companies unsuccessfully struggled to suppress the evidence papers obtained by Edell on the grounds that it would \"divulge trade secrets\"; the trial court judge, Sarokin, ruled that the people and the court had the Constitutional right to know what the companies know and granted the use of the papers. The tobacco companies still made an effort to thwart the efforts of Edell to use the papers. They not only appealed to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, which upheld the ruling, but also the Supreme Court, which refused to hear the case. It was established that the evidence would be used in trial.\n\nAlongside the tobacco industry documents, Edell argued that the powerful advertising for the brands Cipollone smoked was an unscrupulous strategy utilized by the tobacco industry to not only overshadow the warning labels mandated by the federal government, but also to promote cigarette use and nicotine addiction as a marketing strategy for company profit. Edell also claimed that Cipollone’s tobacco use stemmed from her nicotine addiction, which was encouraged by the advertising of Liggett and Myers, Philip Morris, and Lorillard by the use of both health claims and advertising. Edell made sure that Cipollone was portrayed as a woman who was disparaged by her powerful addiction to the tobacco industry’s product; expert testimony showed that she even displayed withdrawal symptoms, sometimes digging through “the trash for butts when she ran out of cigarettes”. Edell was heavily committed to the case. He was seen working seven days a week and spending his every waking minute on the case. He sacrificed time with both his wife and children to ensure his arguments were strong. After presenting his case that the tobacco industry’s advertising of cigarettes and knowledge of risk related to Cipollone’s claims, the tobacco companies' defense moved for dismissal. The motion was denied. They were going to have to answer to Edell's claims.\n\nThe tobacco industry argued that Rose Cipollone was fully aware of the risks of smoking both before and during her cigarette use. \"She was an independent woman, making an independent decision to continue smoking, and she was in control, not the nicotine\" claimed the tobacco industries. Furthermore, even if the cigarettes had caused her death, it was in no way the responsibility of the industry. As research and the industry documents were used in trial, Edell failed to show any explicit proof that lung cancer is linked directly to smoking. Furthermore, expert testimony revealed that the type of lung cancer affecting Cipollone was not associated with smoking. Cipollone’s constant switching between “healthier” brands also showed her acknowledgment of the dangers of smoking, argued by the defense.\n\nThe jury deliberated for 6 days, and reached the verdict on June 3, 1988—considering the conspiracy claims and the lack of expression in warranty and warning argued by Edell. The jury happened to be composed of 3 non-smokers, 2 former smokers, and 1 smoker. The group of 6 had concluded that:\nEdell was pleased that they had received some monetary reward and saw it as a victory. However, he comments on his hope that the courts would've gone further with their condemnation of big tobacco in an interview sometime after the ruling.\nAfter the District Court Ruling, the tobacco companies appealed to the Court of Appeals of the Third Circuit in hopes of reversing the verdict.\n\nIn 1990, the Third Circuit appellate court threw out the verdict and:\nFive days after the appellate ruling, Antonio Cipollone died, Rose Cipollone's son continued on with the case after her husband's death. Both the plaintiff and the defense in this case were looking for a concrete doctrine regarding the ability to litigate regarding preemption, state regulation of tobacco, and the Act cited in the first trial of the case.\nThe Supreme Court addressed the issue of preemption of federal law in regard to state law regulating the tobacco industry and whether common law damages constitute a requirement based on smoking and health based on state law in regard to advertisements and promotion.The Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act of 1966, which excludes all manufacturers who label their packages with proper warnings from requirement or prohibition, led the majority of the court to the opinion that: \nThe majority ruling by the Supreme Court limited the potential litigants in lawsuits against tobacco industries to only smokers who developed diseases prior to 1969. The opinion did not exclude fraud and conspiracy or express warranty, as section 5b of the 1969 Act does not explicitly define this;\n\nThe Supreme Court also stated that if the plaintiff, Edell and Cipollone's son in this case, could prove any of the following:\n\n1)the industry conspired to hide evidence concerning the harms of smoking\n\n2)or lied to the public about them,\n\n3)or if express warranties were breached then a new case can be filed, as there is no discussion of tort litigation or damage claims in the Act. The concurring opinion of the court found that no damage claims were preempted rather than not discussed. The dissenting justices found that all state laws were preempted by the act.\n\nThe case caught the attention of many: Congress, Wall Street, and legal communities across the country. Legal communities, those opposed to and supportive of tobacco companies, analyzed the victor in the trials and what it entailed for future liability suits against tobacco companies. Congressional leaders watched, some supporters of big tobacco and others some of its strongest critics. A new conversation in the public forum had been opened with Cipollone v Liggett Group Inc, with the public becoming more informed on the dangers of smoking. However, this can only be said for a small few, as others did know the dangers before the case and the warning of Surgeon General Terry. The smoking population stayed constant through the trial, with no substantial change occurring during the course of the trials. .\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court remanded \"Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc.\" for a new trial. The retrial never occurred; the $400,000 verdict for Cipollone from the original trial was far eclipsed by the exorbitant costs and length of the lawsuit. Since the case was filed, almost half the ten years was spent on post-trial matters. In 1988, Phillip Morris was quoted as saying: \"Almost 200 lawsuits have been brought in the last five and a half years and the cigarette manufacturers have not ... paid a penny to settle one.\" As of 1992, the law firms handling \"Cipollone\" and seven other tobacco litigation cases had \"incurred approximately $1.2 million in out-of-pocket expenses ... The firms have also spent well over $5 million in lawyer and paralegal time\".\n\nRose Cipollone's son filed for a voluntary withdrawal of the lawsuit on November 4, 1992. Six other tobacco liability cases were withdrawn the same month as well. The firm handling \"Cipollone\" was denied withdrawal in the last remaining case, \"Haines v. Liggett Group, Inc.\" \"Haines\" dragged on for another decade and then some, until a settlement order was approved on April 13, 2004.\n\nThe Cipollone v Liggett Group Inc was one of the costliest liability lawsuits spanning the course of five years. Tobacco companies before the case were succeeding in the court room—no plaintiffs had ever been like Edell in previous cases. Many earlier plaintiffs were not able to make the scientific correlation between smoking cigarettes and the diseases that are linked to them. Many plaintiffs were out financed by big tobacco companies as well, with companies having what seemed to be unlimited pools of financial resources while plaintiffs struggled with countless court fees. With Cipollone v Liggett Inc, finances were not a major problem for Edell and his team. They were the first to introduce the concept of a conspiracy by tobacco companies to keep the public misinformed on the dangers of smoking and that there was a \"safer cigarette\" hidden in the shadows. After the case, tobacco companies viewed the ruling as a victory in their favor. However, this proclamation did not stop a wave of hundreds of lawsuits to follow in liability after Cipollone v Liggett Inc. Cipollone v Liggett Group Inc is viewed by some commentators as a monumental achievement in the anti-tobacco crusade.\n\nHowever, many say that even with the surge in liability lawsuits against tobacco companies, it will be hard for any more progress to ensue. The same problems are still standing in the way of future plaintiffs who decide to go after big tobacco:\n\n"}
{"id": "25528604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25528604", "title": "Circumvallate placenta", "text": "Circumvallate placenta\n\nCircumvallate placenta is a placental morphological abnormalitiy, a subtype of placenta extrachorialis in which the fetal membranes (chorion and amnion) \"double back\" on the fetal side around the edge of the placenta. After delivery, a circumvallate placenta has a thick ring of membranes on its fetal surface.\n\nThe fetal surface is divided into a central depressed zone surrounded by a thickened white ring which is incomplete. The ring is situated at varying distance from the margin of the placenta. The ring is composed of a double fold of amnion and chorion with degenerated decidua vera and fibrin in between. Vessels radiate from the cord insertion as far as the ring and then disappear from the view. \nComplete circumvallate placenta occurs in approximately 1% of pregnancies. It is diagnosed prenatally by medical ultrasonography, although one 1997 study of prenatal ultrasounds found that \"of the normal placentas, 35% were graded as probably or definitely circumvallate by at least one sonologist,\" and \"all sonologists misgraded the case of complete circumvallation as normal.\" The condition is associated with perinatal complications such as placental abruption, oligohydramnios, abnormal cardiotocography, preterm birth, and miscarriage.\n"}
{"id": "6969110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6969110", "title": "Citrinitas", "text": "Citrinitas\n\nCitrinitas, sometimes referred to as xanthosis, is a term given by alchemists to \"yellowness.\" It is one of the four major stages of the alchemical magnum opus, and literally referred to \"transmutation of silver into gold\" or \"yellowing of the lunar consciousness.\" In alchemical philosophy, citrinitas stood for the dawning of the \"solar light\" inherent in one's being, and that the reflective \"lunar or soul light\" was no longer necessary. The other three alchemical stages were nigredo (blackness), albedo (whiteness), and rubedo (redness).\n\nPsychologist Carl Jung is credited with interpreting the alchemical process as analogous to modern-day psychoanalysis. In the Jungian archetypal schema, nigredo is the Shadow; albedo refers to the anima and animus (contrasexual soul images); citrinitas is the wise old man (or woman) archetype; and rubedo is the Self archetype which has achieved wholeness.\n\n"}
{"id": "41577021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41577021", "title": "Developmental Eclecticism", "text": "Developmental Eclecticism\n\nDevelopmental Eclecticism or Systematic Eclecticism was founded by Gerard Egan in the 1970s.\n"}
{"id": "337907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337907", "title": "Drew Pinsky", "text": "Drew Pinsky\n\nDavid Drew Pinsky (born September 4, 1958), commonly known as Dr. Drew, is an American celebrity doctor who is a board-certified internist, addiction medicine specialist, and media personality. He hosted the nationally syndicated radio talk show \"Loveline\" from the show's inception in 1984 until its end in 2016. On television, he hosts the talk show \"Dr. Drew On Call\" on HLN, and hosted the daytime series \"Lifechangers\" on The CW. In addition, he serves as producer and starred in the VH1 show \"Celebrity Rehab with Dr. Drew\", and its spinoffs \"Sex Rehab with Dr. Drew\", \"Celebrity Rehab Presents Sober House\" and hosts podcasts on the Adam Carolla podcast network.\n\nPinsky is also Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the Keck School of Medicine at the University of Southern California, former Medical Director for the Department of Chemical Dependency Services at Las Encinas Hospital in Pasadena, California, staff member at Huntington Memorial Hospital, and a private practitioner.\n\nPinsky was born to a Jewish family in Pasadena, California. His father, Morton Pinsky (1925–2009), was a physician whose parents emigrated from Ukraine. His mother, Helene Stanton (née Eleanor Mae Stansbury; 1925-2017), was a singer and actress who came from a \"highly Victorian upper-middle-class family in Philadelphia\". Pinsky attended Polytechnic School. He majored in biology at Amherst College, graduating in 1980, and earned his M.D. at the University of Southern California School of Medicine in 1984. He served his residency in internal medicine at USC County Hospital and became chief resident at Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, and eventually moved into private practice.\n\nAs \"The New York Times\" described it in February 2008, Pinsky's dual career in medicine and the mass media has required him to \"navigat[e] a precarious balance of professionalism and salaciousness.\"\n\nIn 1984, while still a medical student, Pinsky started appearing in \"Ask a Surgeon\", a segment of a Sunday night KROQ-FM show hosted by Jim \"Poorman\" Trenton and \"Swedish\" Egil Aalvik. \"Ask the Surgeon\" soon combined with \"Loveline\", another Sunday night segment, into a show of its own, co-hosted by Trenton and Pinsky.\n\"Loveline\" went national in 1995, and the television version launched on MTV the following year, hosted by Pinsky and Adam Carolla. The exposure on both radio and television made Pinsky the \"Gen-X answer to Dr. Ruth Westheimer, with an AIDS-era, pro-safe-sex message.\" The MTV show ran for four years, while the radio show continued until April 2016 with cohost Mike Catherwood.\n\nOn November 27, 2007, Pinsky began \"Dr. Drew Live\", another nationally syndicated talk radio show where he focused on a wider range of health issues. It originated from KGIL in Los Angeles, originally airing weekdays from 11:00 am to 1:00 pm PT The show was canceled in December 2008.\n\nOn January 5, 2015, Pinsky launched a new weekday program, \"Dr. Drew Midday Live with Mike Catherwood,\" on KABC in Los Angeles.\n\nOn April 21, 2016, Pinsky announced Loveline would wrap up on April 28, 2016. Adam Carolla re-joined him as co-host for the final show.\n\nPinsky's first television appearance was as a contestant on \"Wheel of Fortune\" in 1984, though he did not win. He also served as \"health and human relations expert\" on the first season of the U.S. TV series \"Big Brother\" in 2000.\n\nHe has also hosted several shorter educational television series, starting with \"Strictly Sex with Dr. Drew\", which ran for 10 episodes on the Discovery Health Channel, followed by \"Strictly Dr. Drew\" which addressed everyday health issues. He later hosted the MTV series \"Sex...with Mom and Dad\" (2008–2009).\n\nIn 2008, Pinsky starred in \"Celebrity Rehab with Dr. Drew\", a reality television show which involves celebrities in a drug rehabilitation facility. The show was filmed at Pasadena Recovery Center, with Pinsky serving as the resident medical expert. The series premiered January 10, 2008 on VH-1, and has been renewed for multiple seasons. A follow-up show to \"Celebrity Rehab\" with many of the same celebrities was \"Sober House\", which began its first season in January 2009, and included celebrities from the first two seasons of \"Celebrity Rehab\" continuing their recovery in a sober living facility. In November 2009, Pinsky starred in a spinoff of \"Celebrity Rehab\", \"Sex Rehab with Dr.Drew\", which depicted celebrities being treated for sexual addiction over the course of three weeks at the Pasadena Recovery Center.\n\nPinsky makes guest appearances on a variety of news programs where he usually gives his observations on the relationship between controlled substances and high-profile individuals. He has frequently given his views on the deaths of people such as Anna Nicole Smith, Heath Ledger and Michael Jackson, arguing that their fates should set examples of the seriousness of misusing drugs.\n\nPinsky has acted in several TV appearances (either portraying himself or a fictional character), \"Space Ghost Coast to Coast\", \"Dawson's Creek\", \"Family Guy\". \"The Adam Carolla Project\", \"Minoriteam\", \"Robot Chicken\", \"My Gym Partner's a Monkey\", and \"Code Monkeys\". Pinsky also appeared in the films \"New York Minute\" and \"Wild Hogs\".\n\nIn early 2011, Pinsky began hosting his own show, \"Dr. Drew On Call\" on HLN that focuses on news involving health and addiction topics. On August 26, 2016, HLN and Pinsky announced that the show's last episode would be September 22 of that year.\n\nIn 1999, Pinsky co-founded an Internet-based community and advice site for teenagers called DrDrew.com with Curtis Giesen. Among their early backers was Garage.com. DrDrew.com soon ran out of funding, and the company was sold to Sherwood Partners Inc., a corporate restructuring firm, which sold the remnants to DrKoop.com in November 2000. Pinsky re-acquired the site circa 2013 and began using for general information about his books, radio and TV shows, as well as hosting his independent podcast, \"The Dr. Drew Podcast\". In September 2012, Pinsky announced on \"The Adam Carolla Show\" that he will be doing a podcast on the Carolla Digital network.\n\nIn 2003, Pinsky authored \",\" recounting his experiences as the Medical Director of the Department of Chemical Dependency Services at the Las Encinas Hospital drug rehabilitation clinic in Pasadena, California. He also contributed to the book \"When Painkillers Become Dangerous: What Everyone Needs to Know About OxyContin and Other Prescription Drugs,\" published in 2004.\n\nIn addition to his media appearances, Pinsky speaks at college campuses and other public venues. When Adam Carolla and Pinsky were teamed as hosts of \"Loveline\", Carolla and Pinsky spoke at colleges.\n\nPinsky was the voice of 1-800-GET-THIN, advocating lap band surgery on radio ads and in a recording played for those who called 1-800-GET-THIN.\n\nHe also appeared with his dogs in a PETA ad campaign promoting the spaying and neutering of pets.\n\nPinsky also narrated for the 2014 documentary \"Divorce Corp.\"\n\nAsteroid 4536 Drewpinsky is named in his honor.\n\nPinsky was honored with the Larry Stewart Leadership and Inspiration Award at the 12th Annual PRISM Awards in 2008.\n\nPinsky married on July 21, 1991, and he and his wife, Susan Sailer, had triplets Douglas, Jordan, and Paulina in November 1992.\n\nPinsky lives in Pasadena, California. Interested in fitness since his early teens, he goes running and does weight training regularly. In addition to his hobby of traveling, he also enjoys singing opera, as his mother was a professional singer. Pinsky stated on the June 24, 2009 episode of \"Loveline\" that at one point, he was torn between practicing medicine and becoming a professional opera singer. Pinsky stated that he auditioned for a celebrity singing show, but that the show passed on his appearance when he made it clear to producers that he could not sing pop songs, but did perform an aria on \"Turn Ben Stein On\".\n\nPinsky's father, Morton, died suddenly of a cerebral hemorrhage on October 27, 2009. A title card at the end of the season 3 finale of \"Celebrity Rehab\" dedicated the episode to him. Pinsky's mother, Helene, died on June 7, 2017 at age 91.\n\nPinsky is a nonobservant Jew; he admits to abandoning most Jewish practices but claims to retain a continued desire to learn about the religion. He explains that religious as well as philosophical studies affect his medical practice and his speeches, and that his background places \"an indirect coloring on every answer.\"\n\nIn September 2013, Pinsky revealed that he had recovered from prostate cancer surgery performed earlier that June and July, after which Pinsky did not require chemotherapy or radiation.\n\nIn an interview on \"Kevin and Bean\", Pinsky has stated he will speak to any media outlet including TMZ and \"The National Enquirer\", but will not speak to the \"Los Angeles Times\", explaining \"They distort, and they mislead, and they take things out of context. I really am stunned at how shoddy their journalism is, so I stopped talking to them.\"\n\nPolitically, Pinsky has increasingly spoken of the 'tyranny' of governmental overreach and the need for a “Liberty Party.”\n\nNotable productions in which Pinsky has appeared include:\n\nFilm\n\nTelevision\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36500347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36500347", "title": "Duochrome test", "text": "Duochrome test\n\nA duochrome test is a test commonly used to refine the final sphere in refraction, which makes use of the transverse chromatic aberration of the eye. Because of the chromatic aberration of the eye, the shorter wavelengths (green) are focused in front of the longer red wavelengths.\n\nThe patient is asked to compare the clarity of the letters on the green and the red side. If the letters of the green side are clearer +0.25 D sphere is added and if the letters on the red side are clearer -0.25 D sphere is added.\nWith optimal spherical correction, the letters on the red and green halves of the chart appear equally clear.\n\nBecause this test is based on chromatic aberration and not on color discrimination, it is used even with people having color vision deficiency.\n\nThe eye with overactive accommodation may still require too much minus sphere in order to balance the red and green. Cycloplegia may be necessary.\n\nThe duochrome test is not used with patients whose visual acuity is worse than 20/30 (6/9), because the 0.50 D difference between the 2 sides is too small to distinguish.\n\n"}
{"id": "10235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10235", "title": "ELIZA", "text": "ELIZA\n\nELIZA is an early natural language processing computer program created from 1964 to 1966 at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory by Joseph Weizenbaum. Created to demonstrate the superficiality of communication between humans and machines, Eliza simulated conversation by using a 'pattern matching' and substitution methodology that gave users an illusion of understanding on the part of the program, but had no built in framework for contextualizing events. Directives on how to interact were provided by 'scripts', written originally in MAD-Slip, which allowed ELIZA to process user inputs and engage in discourse following the rules and directions of the script. The most famous script, DOCTOR, simulated a Rogerian psychotherapist and used rules, dictated in the script, to respond with non-directional questions to user inputs. As such, ELIZA was one of the first chatterbots and one of the first programs capable of attempting the Turing Test.\n\nELIZA creator, Weizenbaum regarded the program as a method to show the superficiality of communication between man and machine, but was surprised by the number of individuals who attributed human-like feelings to the computer program, including Weizenbaum’s secretary. Many academics believed that the program would be able to positively influence the lives of many people, particularly those suffering from psychological issues and that it could aid doctors working on such patients' treatment. While ELIZA was capable of engaging in discourse, ELIZA could not converse with true understanding. However, many early users were convinced of ELIZA’s intelligence and understanding, despite Weizenbaum’s insistence to the contrary.\n\nJoseph Weizenbaum’s ELIZA, running the DOCTOR script, was created to provide a parody of \"the responses of a non-directional psychotherapist in an initial psychiatric interview\" and to \"demonstrate that the communication between man and machine was superficial\". While ELIZA is most well known for acting in the manner of a psychotherapist, this mannerism is due to the data and instructions supplied by the DOCTOR script. ELIZA itself examined the text for keywords, applied values to said keywords, and transformed the input into an output; the script that ELIZA ran determined the keywords, set the values of keywords, and set the rules of transformation for the output. Weizenbaum chose to make the DOCTOR script in the context of psychotherapy to \"sidestep the problem of giving the program a data base of real-world knowledge\", as in a Rogerian therapeutic situation, the program had only to reflect back the patient's statements. The algorithms of DOCTOR allowed for a deceptively intelligent response, that deceived many individuals when first using the program.\n\nWeizenbaum named his program ELIZA after Eliza Doolittle, a working-class character in George Bernard Shaw's \"Pygmalion\". According to Weizenbaum, ELIZA's ability to be \"incrementally improved\" by various users made it similar to Eliza Doolittle, since Eliza Doolittle was taught to speak with an upper-class accent in Shaw's play. However, unlike in Shaw's play, ELIZA is incapable of learning new patterns of speech or new words through interaction alone. Edits must be made directly to ELIZA’s active script in order to change the manner by which the program operates.\n\nWeizenbaum first implemented ELIZA in his own SLIP list-processing language, where, depending upon the initial entries by the user, the illusion of human intelligence could appear, or be dispelled through several interchanges. Some of ELIZA's responses were so convincing that Weizenbaum and several others have anecdotes of users becoming emotionally attached to the program, occasionally forgetting that they were conversing with a computer. Weizenbaum's own secretary reportedly asked Weizenbaum to leave the room so that she and ELIZA could have a real conversation. Weizenbaum was surprised by this, later writing, \"I had not realized ... that extremely short exposures to a relatively simple computer program could induce powerful delusional thinking in quite normal people.\"\n\nIn 1966, interactive computing (via a teletype) was new. It was 15 years before the personal computer became familiar to the general public, and three decades before most people encountered attempts at natural language processing in Internet services like Ask.com or PC help systems such as Microsoft Office Clippit. Although those programs included years of research and work, ELIZA remains a milestone simply because it was the first time a programmer had attempted such a human-machine interaction with the goal of creating the illusion (however brief) of human-\"human\" interaction.\n\nAt the ICCC 1972 ELIZA met another early artificial intelligence program named PARRY and had a computer-only conversation. While ELIZA was built to be a \"Doctor\" PARRY was intended to simulate a patient with schizophrenia.\n\nWeizenbaum originally wrote ELIZA in MAD-Slip for the IBM 7094, as a program to make natural language conversation possible with a computer. To accomplish this, Weizenbaum identified five \"fundamental technical problems\" for ELIZA to overcome: the identification of critical words, the discovery of a minimal context, the choice of appropriate transformations, the generation of responses appropriate to the transformation or in the absence of critical words and the provision of an ending capacity for ELIZA scripts. Weizenbaum solved these problems in his ELIZA program and made ELIZA such that it had no built in contextual framework or universe of discourse. However, this required ELIZA to have a script of instructions on how to respond to inputs from users.\n\nELIZA starts its process of responding to an input by a user by first examining the text input for a \"keyword\". A \"keyword\" is a word designated as important by the acting ELIZA script, which assigns to each keyword a precedence number, or a RANK, designed by the programmer. If such words are found, they are put into a \"keystack\", with the keyword of the highest RANK at the top. The input sentence is then manipulated and transformed as the rule associated with the keyword of the highest RANK directs. For example, when the DOCTOR script encounters words such as \"alike\" or \"same\", it would output a message pertaining to similarity, in this case “In what way?”, as these words had high precedence number. This also demonstrates how certain words, as dictated by the script, can be manipulated regardless of contextual considerations, such as switching first-person pronouns and second-person pronouns and vice versa, as these too had high precedence numbers. Such words with high precedence numbers are deemed superior to conversational patterns, and are treated independently of contextual patterns.\n\nFollowing the first examination, the next step of the process is to apply an appropriate transformation rule, which includes two parts, the \"decomposition rule\" and the \"reassembly rule\". First, the input is reviewed for syntactical patterns in order to establish the minimal context necessary to respond. Using the keywords and other nearby words from the input, different disassembly rules are tested until an appropriate pattern is found. Using the script's rules, the sentence is then \"dismantled\" and arranged into sections of the component parts as the \"decomposition rule for the highest ranking keyword\" dictates. The example that Weizenbaum gives is the input \"I are very helpful\" (remembering that \"I\" is \"You\" transformed), which is broken into (1) empty (2) I (3) are (4) very helpful. The decomposition rule has broken the phrase into four small segments, that contain both the keywords and the information in the sentence.\n\nThe decomposition rule then designates a particular reassembly rule, or set of reassembly rules, to follow when reconstructing the sentence. The reassembly rule then takes the fragments of the input that the decomposition rule had created, rearranges them, and adds in programmed words to create a response. Using Weizenbaum's example previously stated, such a reassembly rule would take the fragments and apply them to the phrase \"What makes you think I am (4)\" which would result in \"What makes you think I am very helpful\". This example is rather simple, since depending upon the disassembly rule, the output could be significantly more complex and use more of the input from the user. However, from this reassembly, ELIZA then sends the constructed sentence to the user in the form of text on the screen.\n\nThese steps represent the bulk of the procedures which ELIZA follows in order to create a response from a typical input, though there are several specialized situations that ELIZA/DOCTOR can respond to. One Weizenbaum specifically wrote about was when there is not a keyword. One solution was to have ELIZA respond with a remark that lacked content, such as \"I see\" or \"Please go on\". The second method was to use a \"MEMORY\" structure, which recorded prior recent inputs, and would use these inputs to create a response referencing a part of the earlier conversation when encountered with no keywords. This was possible due to Slip’s ability to tag words for other usage, which simultaneously allowed ELIZA to examine, store and repurpose words for usage in outputs.\n\nWhile these functions were all framed in ELIZA's programming, the exact manner by which the program dismantled, examined, and reassembled inputs is determined by the operating script. However, the script is not static, and can be edited, or a new one created, as is necessary for the operation in the context needed (thus how ELIZA can \"learn\" new information). This also allows the program to be applied in multiple situations, including the well-known DOCTOR script, which simulates a Rogerian psychotherapist, but also a script called \"STUDENT\", which is capable of taking in logical analysis parameters and using it to give the answers to problems of related logic.\n\nWeizenbaum's original MAD-SLIP implementation was re-written in Lisp by Bernie Cosell. A BASIC version appeared in Creative Computing in 1977 (although it was written in 1973 by Jeff Shrager). This version, which was ported to many of the earliest personal computers, appears to have been subsequently translated into many other versions in many other languages.\n\nAnother version of Eliza popular among software engineers is the version that comes with the default release of GNU Emacs, and which can be accessed by typing codice_1 from most modern emacs implementations.\n\nELIZA influenced a number of early computer games by demonstrating additional kinds of interface designs. Don Daglow wrote an enhanced version of the program called \"Ecala\" on a DEC PDP-10 minicomputer at Pomona College in 1973 before writing the computer role-playing game \"Dungeon\" (1975).\n\nIn the 2008 anime RD Sennou Chousashitsu, aka \"Real Drive\", a character named Eliza Weizenbaum appears, an obvious tribute to ELIZA and Joseph Weizenbaum. Her behavior in the story often mimics the responses of the ELIZA program.\n\nThe 2011 game Deus Ex: Human Revolution features an artificial intelligence news anchor named Eliza Cassan.\n\nIn January 2018, the twelfth episode of the American sitcom \"Young Sheldon\" starred the protagonist \"conversing\" with ELIZA, hoping to resolve a domestic issue.\n\nOn July 19, 2018, ELIZA was a brief mention by the protagonist of the movie \"Zoe\" to support his reasoning behind why his relationship with Zoe, a hyper-realistic AI, wasn't real.\n\nLay responses to ELIZA were disturbing to Weizenbaum and motivated him to write his book \"Computer Power and Human Reason: From Judgment to Calculation\", in which he explains the limits of computers, as he wants to make clear in people's minds his opinion that the anthropomorphic views of computers are just a reduction of the human being and any life form for that matter. In the independent documentary film \"Plug & Pray\" (2010) Weizenbaum said that only people who misunderstood ELIZA called it a sensation.\n\nThe Israeli poet David Avidan, who was fascinated with future technologies and their relation to art, desired to explore the use of computers for writing literature. He conducted several conversations with an APL implementation of ELIZA and published them – in English, and in his own translation to Hebrew – under the title \"My Electronic Psychiatrist – Eight Authentic Talks with a Computer\". In the foreword he presented it as a form of constrained writing.\n\nThere are many programs based on ELIZA in different programming languages. In 1980 a company called \"Don't Ask Software\" created a version called \"Abuse\" for the Apple II, Atari, and Commodore 64 computers, which verbally abused the user based on the user's input. Other versions adapted ELIZA around a religious theme, such as ones featuring Jesus (both serious and comedic) and another Apple II variant called \"I Am Buddha\". The 1980 game \"The Prisoner\" incorporated ELIZA-style interaction within its gameplay. George Lucas and Walter Murch incorporated an Eliza-like dialogue interface in their screenplay for the feature film \"THX-1138\" in 1969. Inhabitants of the underground future world of THX would retreat to \"confession booths\" when stressed, and initiate a one-sided Eliza-formula conversation with a Jesus-faced computer who claimed to be \"Omm\". In 1988 the British artist and friend of Weizenbaum Brian Reffin Smith created and showed at the exhibition \"Salamandre\", in the Musée du Berry, Bourges, France, two art-oriented ELIZA-style programs written in BASIC, one called \"Critic\" and the other \"Artist\", running on two separate Amiga 1000 computers. The visitor was supposed to help them converse by typing in to \"Artist\" what \"Critic\" said, and vice versa. The secret was that the two programs were identical. GNU Emacs formerly had a codice_2 command that simulates a session between ELIZA and Zippy the Pinhead. The Zippyisms were removed due to copyright issues, but the DOCTOR program remains.\n\nELIZA has been referenced in popular culture and continues to be a source of inspiration for programmers and developers focused on Artificial Intelligence. It was also featured in a 2012 exhibit at Harvard University titled \"Go Ask A.L.I.C.E\", as part of a celebration of mathematician Alan Turing's 100th birthday. The exhibit explores Turing's lifelong fascination with the interaction between humans and computers, pointing to ELIZA as one of the earliest realizations of Turing's ideas..\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45711365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45711365", "title": "Every Last Child", "text": "Every Last Child\n\nEvery Last Child (2014) is a Pakistani and UAE documentary film directed and produced by Tom Roberts and made under the Imagenation Abu Dhabi FZ banner. Roberts also wrote the story of the film. The film was released in three different languages—Urdu, English and Pashto.\n\n\"Every Last Child\" shows the steps taken in Pakistan to eliminate poliomyelitis (polio) infection from the country. Polio, which had almost been eradicated from the world, showed resurgence in Pakistan after the Taliban banned polio vaccinations. The film also shows the efforts made by health care workers, who, in spite of difficulties while doing their work such as violence and politics, attempted to save Pakistani children from polio.\n\nThe first scene in \"Every Last Child\" is of a fully armed army unit being told by its captain to get ready for war, but in this case the war is to give protection against the Taliban who are obstructing the polio vaccinators from immunizing children. Polio victims are then profiled: In one scene, a destitute person affected by polio and pushing a dilapidated cart says \"I'll be fit in the afterlife\"; in another scene, a polio-affected child is getting fitted with braces, with his distressed father watching; in yet another scene a lady whose two family members were killed by the Taliban when they were canvassing for vaccination is actively supporting the cause of vaccination. There are also scenes of false propaganda made against the vaccinations stating perceived ill effects of the polio vaccine such as making \"girls prematurely adult and boys impotent.\" The propaganda also attributes the vaccine as a plot of Jews and Christians with intent to eliminate Muslims.\n\nThe film ends on a positive note, with a scene showing documents related to the success of the vaccination programme under the title \"Justice for Health\", a programme initiated by Imran Khan.\n\n\"Every Last Child\" is a production by Image Nation Abu Dhabi FZ, directed by Tom Roberts who was also the script writer. Roberts was also the producer of the film, along with Anna Melin and Sabin Agha. Ali Faisal Zaidi was the Director of Photography and editing and composing was done by Paul Carlin. The film's run time is 82 minutes.\n\n\"Every Last Child\" was released in November 2014 and received mostly positive reviews from critics. America's \"National Public Radio\" called it an \"unboring\" documentary. The \"New York Times\" said \"Tom Roberts's observational film conveys an uncommon sense of the urgency befitting the stakes raised by the public health crisis.\" \"The Hollywood Reporter\" found the film \"all too timely in the wake of the recent Ebola crisis.\" The film has a scroe of 73% on Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "855850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855850", "title": "Extrusion", "text": "Extrusion\n\nExtrusion is a process used to create objects of a fixed cross-sectional profile. A material is pushed through a die of the desired cross-section. The two main advantages of this process over other manufacturing processes are its ability to create very complex cross-sections, and to work materials that are brittle, because the material only encounters compressive and shear stresses. It also forms parts with an excellent surface finish.\n\nDrawing is a similar process, which uses the tensile strength of the material to pull it through the die. This limits the amount of change which can be performed in one step, so it is limited to simpler shapes, and multiple stages are usually needed. Drawing is the main way to produce wire. Metal bars and tubes are also often drawn.\n\nExtrusion may be continuous (theoretically producing indefinitely long material) or semi-continuous (producing many pieces). The extrusion process can be done with the material hot or cold. Commonly extruded materials include metals, polymers, ceramics, concrete, modelling clay, and foodstuffs. The products of extrusion are generally called \"extrudates\".\n\nAlso referred to as \"hole flanging\", hollow cavities within extruded material cannot be produced using a simple flat extrusion die, because there would be no way to support the centre barrier of the die. Instead, the die assumes the shape of a block with depth, beginning first with a shape profile that supports the center section. The die shape then internally changes along its length into the final shape, with the suspended center pieces supported from the back of the die. The material flows around the supports and fuses together to create the desired closed shape.\n\nThe extrusion process in metals may also increase the strength of the material.\n\nIn 1797, Joseph Bramah patented the first extrusion process for making pipe out of soft metals. It involved preheating the metal and then forcing it through a die via a hand-driven plunger. In 1820 Thomas Burr implemented that process for lead pipe, with a hydraulic press (also invented by Joseph Bramah). At that time the process was called \"squirting\". In 1894, Alexander Dick expanded the extrusion process to copper and brass alloys.\n\nThe process begins by heating the stock material (for hot or warm extrusion). It is then loaded into the container in the press. A dummy block is placed behind it where the ram then presses on the material to push it out of the die. Afterward the extrusion is stretched in order to straighten it. If better properties are required then it may be heat treated or cold worked.\n\nThe extrusion ratio is defined as the starting cross-sectional area divided by the cross-sectional area of the final extrusion. One of the main advantages of the extrusion process is that this ratio can be very large while still producing quality parts.\n\nHot extrusion is a hot working process, which means it is done above the material's recrystallization temperature to keep the material from work hardening and to make it easier to push the material through the die. Most hot extrusions are done on horizontal hydraulic presses that range from . Pressures range from , therefore lubrication is required, which can be oil or graphite for lower temperature extrusions, or glass powder for higher temperature extrusions. The biggest disadvantage of this process is its cost for machinery and its upkeep.\n\nThe extrusion process is generally economical when producing between several kilograms (pounds) and many tons, depending on the material being extruded. There is a crossover point where roll forming becomes more economical. For instance, some steels become more economical to roll if producing more than 20,000 kg (50,000 lb).\n\nCold extrusion is done at room temperature or near room temperature. The advantages of this over hot extrusion are the lack of oxidation, higher strength due to cold working, closer tolerances, better surface finish, and fast extrusion speeds if the material is subject to hot shortness.\n\nMaterials that are commonly cold extruded include: lead, tin, aluminum, copper, zirconium, titanium, molybdenum, beryllium, vanadium, niobium, and steel.\n\nExamples of products produced by this process are: collapsible tubes, fire extinguisher cases, shock absorber cylinders and gear blanks.\n\nIn March 1956, a US Patent was filed for \"process for warm extrusion of metal.\" Patent US3156043 A outlines that a number of important advantages can be achieved with warm extrusion of both ferrous and non-ferrous metals and alloys if a billet to be extruded is changed in its physical properties in response to physical forces by being heated to a temperature below the critical melting point. Warm extrusion is done above room temperature, but below the recrystallization temperature of the material the temperatures ranges from 800 to 1800 °F (424 to 975 °C). It is usually used to achieve the proper balance of required forces, ductility and final extrusion properties.\n\nFriction extrusion was invented at The Welding Institute in the UK and patented in 1991. It was originally intended primarily as a method for production of homogenous microstructures and particle distributions in metal matrix composite materials. Friction extrusion differs from conventional extrusion in that the charge (billet or other precursor) rotates relative to the extrusion die. An extrusion force is applied so as to push the charge against the die. In practice either the die or the charge may rotate or they may be counter-rotating. The relative rotary motion between the charge and the die has several significant effects on the process. First, the relative motion in the plane of rotation leads to large shear stresses, hence, plastic deformation in the layer of charge in contact with and near the die. This plastic deformation is dissipated by recovery and recrystallization processes leading to substantial heating of the deforming charge. Because of the deformation heating, friction extrusion does not generally require preheating of the charge by auxiliary means potentially resulting in a more energy efficient process. Second, the substantial level of plastic deformation in the region of relative rotary motion can promote solid state welding of powders or other finely divided precursors, such as flakes and chips, effectively consolidating the charge (friction consolidation) prior to extrusion.\n\nMicroextrusion is a microforming extrusion process performed at the submillimeter range. Like extrusion, metal is pushed through a die orifice, but the resulting product's cross section can fit through a 1mm square. Several microextrusion processes have been developed since microforming was envisioned in 1990. Forward (ram and billet move in the same direction) and backward (ram and billet move in the opposite direction) microextrusion were first introduced, with forward rod-backward cup and double cup extrusion methods developing later. Regardless of method, one of the greatest challenges of creating a successful microextrusion machine is the manufacture of the die and ram. \"The small size of the die and ram, along with the stringent accuracy requirement, needs suitable manufacturing processes.\" Additionally, as Fu and Chan pointed out in a 2013 state-of-the-art technology review, several issues must still be resolved before microextrusion and other microforming technologies can be implemented more widely, including deformation load and defects, forming system stability, mechanical properties, and other size-related effects on the crystallite (grain) structure and boundaries.\n\n. This is often caused by the extrusion temperature, friction, or speed being too high. It can also happen at lower temperatures if the extruded product temporarily sticks to the die.\n\nThere are many different variations of extrusion equipment. They vary by four major characteristics:\n\n\nA single or twin screw auger, powered by an electric motor, or a ram, driven by hydraulic pressure (often used for steel and titanium alloys), oil pressure (for aluminium), or in other specialized processes such as rollers inside a perforated drum for the production of many simultaneous streams of material.\n\nTypical extrusion presses cost more than $100,000, whereas dies can cost up to $2000.\n\nThere are several methods for forming internal cavities in extrusions. One way is to use a hollow billet and then use a fixed or floating mandrel. A fixed mandrel, also known as a German type, means it is integrated into the dummy block and stem. A floating mandrel, also known as a French type, floats in slots in the dummy block and aligns itself in the die when extruding. If a solid billet is used as the feed material then it must first be pierced by the mandrel before extruding through the die. A special press is used in order to control the mandrel independently from the ram. The solid billet could also be used with a spider die, porthole die or bridge die. All of these types of dies incorporate the mandrel in the die and have \"legs\" that hold the mandrel in place. During extrusion the metal divides, flows around the legs, then merges, leaving weld lines in the final product.\n\nDirect extrusion, also known as forward extrusion, is the most common extrusion process. It works by placing the billet in a heavy walled container. The billet is pushed through the die by a ram or screw. There is a reusable dummy block between the ram and the billet to keep them separated. The major disadvantage of this process is that the force required to extrude the billet is greater than that needed in the indirect extrusion process because of the frictional forces introduced by the need for the billet to travel the entire length of the container. Because of this the greatest force required is at the beginning of process and slowly decreases as the billet is used up. At the end of the billet the force greatly increases because the billet is thin and the material must flow radially to exit the die. The end of the billet (called the butt end) is not used for this reason.\n\nIn indirect extrusion, also known as backwards extrusion, the billet and container move together while the die is stationary. The die is held in place by a \"stem\" which has to be longer than the container length. The maximum length of the extrusion is ultimately dictated by the column strength of the stem. Because the billet moves with the container the frictional forces are eliminated. This leads to the following advantages:\n\nThe disadvantages are:\n\nIn the hydrostatic extrusion process the billet is completely surrounded by a pressurized liquid, except where the billet contacts the die. This process can be done hot, warm, or cold, however the temperature is limited by the stability of the fluid used. The process must be carried out in a sealed cylinder to contain the hydrostatic medium. The fluid can be pressurized two ways:\n\n\nThe advantages of this process include:\n\n\nThe disadvantages are:\n\n\nMost modern direct or indirect extrusion presses are hydraulically driven, but there are some small mechanical presses still used. Of the hydraulic presses there are two types: direct-drive oil presses and accumulator water drives.\n\nDirect-drive oil presses are the most common because they are reliable and robust. They can deliver over 35 MPa (5000 psi). They supply a constant pressure throughout the whole billet. The disadvantage is that they are slow, between 50 and 200 mm/s (2–8 ips).\n\nAccumulator water drives are more expensive and larger than direct-drive oil presses, and they lose about 10% of their pressure over the stroke, but they are much faster, up to 380 mm/s (15 ips). Because of this they are used when extruding steel. They are also used on materials that must be heated to very hot temperatures for safety reasons.\n\nHydrostatic extrusion presses usually use castor oil at pressure up to 1400 MPa (200 ksi). Castor oil is used because it has good lubricity and high pressure properties.\n\nThe design of an extrusion profile has a large impact on how readily it can be extruded. The maximum size for an extrusion is determined by finding the smallest circle that will fit around the cross-section, this is called the \"circumscribing circle\". This diameter, in turn, controls the size of the die required, which ultimately determines if the part will fit in a given press. For example, a larger press can handle diameter circumscribing circles for aluminium and 55 cm (22 in) diameter circles for steel and titanium.\n\nThe complexity of an extruded profile can be roughly quantified by calculating the \"shape factor\", which is the amount of surface area generated per unit mass of extrusion. This affects the cost of tooling as well as the rate of production.\n\nThicker sections generally need an increased section size. In order for the material to flow properly legs should not be more than ten times longer than their thickness. If the cross-section is asymmetrical, adjacent sections should be as close to the same size as possible. Sharp corners should be avoided; for aluminium and magnesium the minimum radius should be 0.4 mm (1/64 in) and for steel corners should be and fillets should be . The following table lists the minimum cross-section and thickness for various materials.\n\nMetals that are commonly extruded include:\n\nMagnesium and aluminium alloys usually have a RMS or better surface finish. Titanium and steel can achieve a RMS.\n\nIn 1950, Ugine Séjournet, of France, invented a process which uses glass as a lubricant for extruding steel. The Ugine-Sejournet, or Sejournet, process is now used for other materials that have melting temperatures higher than steel or that require a narrow range of temperatures to extrude, such as the platinum-iridium alloy used to make kilogram mass standards. The process starts by heating the materials to the extruding temperature and then rolling it in glass powder. The glass melts and forms a thin film, 20 to 30 mils (0.5 to 0.75 mm), in order to separate it from chamber walls and allow it to act as a lubricant. A thick solid glass ring that is 0.25 to 0.75 in (6 to 18 mm) thick is placed in the chamber on the die to lubricate the extrusion as it is forced through the die. A second advantage of this glass ring is its ability to insulate the heat of the billet from the die. The extrusion will have a 1 mil thick layer of glass, which can be easily removed once it cools.\n\nAnother breakthrough in lubrication is the use of phosphate coatings. With this process, in conjunction with glass lubrication, steel can be cold extruded. The phosphate coat absorbs the liquid glass to offer even better lubricating properties.\n\nPlastics extrusion commonly uses plastic chips or pellets, which are usually dried, to drive out moisture, in a hopper before going to the feed screw. The polymer resin is heated to molten state by a combination of heating elements and shear heating from the extrusion screw. The screw, or screws as the case with twin screw extrusion, forces the resin through a die, forming the resin into the desired shape. The extrudate is cooled and solidified as it is pulled through the die or water tank. A \"caterpillar haul-off\" (called a \"puller\" in the US) is used to provide tension on the extrusion line which is essential for overall quality of the extrudate. Pelletizers can also create this tension while pulling extruded strands in to be cut. The caterpillar haul-off must provide a consistent pull; otherwise, variation in cut lengths or distorted product will result. In some cases (such as fibre-reinforced tubes) the extrudate is pulled through a very long die, in a process called \"pultrusion\". The configuration of the interior screws are a driving force dependent on the application. Mixing elements or convey elements are used in various formations. Extrusion is common in the application of adding colorant to molten plastic thus creating specific custom color.\n\nA multitude of polymers are used in the production of plastic tubing, pipes, rods, rails, seals, and sheets or films.\n\nWith the advent of industrial manufacturing, extrusion found application in food processing of instant foods and snacks, along with its already known uses in plastics and metal fabrication. The main role of extrusion was originally developed for conveying and shaping fluid forms of processed raw materials. Present day, extrusion cooking technologies and capabilities have developed into sophisticated processing functions including: mixing, conveying, shearing, separation, heating, cooling, shaping, co-extrusion, venting volatiles and moisture, encapsulation, flavor generation and sterilization. Products such as certain pastas, many breakfast cereals, premade cookie dough, some french fries, certain baby foods, dry or semi-moist pet food and ready-to-eat snacks are mostly manufactured by extrusion. It is also used to produce modified starch, and to pelletize animal feed.\n\nGenerally, high-temperature extrusion is used for the manufacture of ready-to-eat snacks, while cold extrusion is used for the manufacture of pasta and related products intended for later cooking and consumption. The processed products have low moisture and hence considerably higher shelf life, and provide variety and convenience to consumers.\nIn the extrusion process, raw materials are first ground to the correct particle size. The dry mix is passed through a pre-conditioner, in which other ingredients may be added, and steam is injected to start the cooking process. The preconditioned mix is then passed through an extruder, where it is forced through a die and cut to the desired length. The cooking process takes place within the extruder where the product produces its own friction and heat due to the pressure generated (10–20 bar). The main independent parameters during extrusion cooking are feed rate, particle size of the raw material, barrel temperature, screw speed and moisture content. The extruding process can induce both protein denaturation and starch gelatinization, depending on inputs and parameters. Sometimes, a catalyst is used, for example, when producing texturised vegetable proteins (TVP).\n\nFor use in pharmaceutical products, extrusion through nano-porous, polymeric filters is being used to produce suspensions of lipid vesicles liposomes or transfersomes with a particular size of a narrow size distribution. The anti-cancer drug Doxorubicin in liposome delivery system is formulated by extrusion, for example. Hot melt extrusion is also utilized in pharmaceutical solid oral dose processing to enable delivery of drugs with poor solubility and bioavailability. Hot melt extrusion has been shown to molecularly disperse poorly soluble drugs in a polymer carrier increasing dissolution rates and bioavailability. The process involves the application of heat, pressure and agitation to mix materials together and ‘extrude’ them through a die. Twin-screw high shear extruders blend materials and simultaneously break up particles. The resulting particle can be blended with compression aids and compressed into tablets or filled into unit dose capsules.\n\nThe extrusion production technology of fuel briquettes is the process of extrusion screw wastes (straw, sunflower husks, buckwheat, etc.) or finely shredded wood waste (sawdust) under high pressure when heated from 160 to 350 °C. The resulting fuel briquettes do not include any of the binders, but one natural – the lignin contained in the cells of plant wastes. The temperature during compression causes melting of the surface of bricks, making it more solid, which is important for the transportation of briquettes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31752687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31752687", "title": "Food security in Mozambique", "text": "Food security in Mozambique\n\nIt is estimated that 64 percent of the Mozambique population is food insecure. The prevalence is higher in the southern region (75 percent).\n\nHealth in Mozambique is affected by the food insecurity of the country. \n\nAccording to the 2009 Human Development Report of the United Nations Development Programme, about 55 percent of the population of Mozambique is living in poverty, nearly half is illiterate, 40 percent is undernourished, only 47 percent have access to safe water, and there is a standing life expectancy at birth of only 48 years. Mozambique ranked 165th out of 169 countries in the human development index. Much of this is a result of the food insecurity in the country. \n\nThe country has one of the highest HIV/AIDS prevalence rates in the world. The prevalence of the HIV/AIDS virus in Mozambique is a further point of vulnerability for poor rural households, aggravating poverty and malnutrition levels. These factors put the country’s agricultural production at risk. \n\nWith more than 80 percent of its population dependent on agriculture for livelihood, Mozambique’s food security can be extremely volatile. 90% of the land is made up of farms of or less. Large-scale productive farming is virtually non-existent.\n\nMozambique suffers from multiple plagues. The most devastating by far for agriculture is the red locust, which is endemic in the Pungwe basin. \n\nMozambique is particularly vulnerable to natural disasters such as droughts and floods, with a total of 15 over the last 25 years. These events greatly damaged the rural sector and the country’s overall economy. For example, the floods of 2000 affected some 2 million people, while the droughts of 1994 and 1996 affected 1.5 million people in the southern and central parts of the country. \n\nCyclones in Mozambique occur during the cropping season, from October to April. For example, in February 2007, Cyclone Flávio caused widespread damage in Inhambane, Sofala and Manica provinces. \n\nThe poor are particularly vulnerable to weather-induced risks simply by virtue of their poverty. Poor households have few assets to sell and their consumption is already low, so in times of scarcity they do not have much to buffer them from food insecurity. Most households have little income or real food security, and women-headed households have even less.\n\nMozambique has a relatively well-developed system of disaster preparedness plans at the district level. Donor-funded projects related to the National Early Warning System help the government cope with food insecurity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25498207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25498207", "title": "Generalized arterial calcification of infancy", "text": "Generalized arterial calcification of infancy\n\nGeneralized Arterial Calcification of Infancy (GACI) also known as Idiopathic Infantile Arterial Calcification (IIAC) Arterial Calcification of Infancy, , Idiopathic Arterial\nCalcification of Infancy (IACI), Occlusive Infantile Arterial Calcification, Occlusive Infantile Arteriopathy is an extremely rare, usually fatal genetic disorder, caused by mutations in the ENPP1 gene in 75% of the subjects. The condition affects infants during the first 6 months of life. This condition is inherited as an autosomal recessive pattern. It is characterized by generalised calcification of the arterial internal elastic lamina, leading to rupture of the lamina and occlusive changes in the tunica intima with stenosis and decreased elasticity of the vessel wall. Most infants die of vaso-occlusive disease, especially of the coronary arteries.\n\nClinical presentation is variable. First symptoms usually occur at birth but can take place in the first 6 months of life or in utero.\n\nThe disease results from an inactivating mutation in the ecto-nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase-1 \"ENPP1\" gene, leading to decreased inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi), a potent inhibitor of calcium deposition in the vessel wall. This mutation allows for unregulated calcium deposition within muscular arteries. The symptoms are caused by calcification of large and medium-sized arteries, including the aorta, coronary arteries, and renal arteries. Most of the patients die by 6 months of age because of heart failure. Recently, homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations for ENPP1 gene were reported as causative for the disorder. ENPP1 regulates extracellular inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi), a major inhibiter of extracellular matrix calcification.\n\nGeneralized infantile arterial calcification should always be considered in infants and children presenting with hypertension, cardiac failure, or sudden death. Plain radiography, sonography and MRI can aid in the diagnosis. Postnatal gray-scale and color Doppler echocardiographic and sonographic examinations allowed noninvasive diagnosis, assessment of severity, and monitoring of progression. Contrast-enhanced MR angiography with breath-hold and cardiac gating techniques can allow evaluation of the extent of the disease.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6599286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6599286", "title": "George Astaphan", "text": "George Astaphan\n\nGeorge Mario \"Jamie\" Sahely Chehin Astaphan, M.D., B.Sc. (May 22, 1946 – August 18, 2006) was a physician who became infamous for giving steroids to the sprinter Ben Johnson.\n\nDr. Astaphan was born on the island of St. Kitts in the West Indies. He attended universities in Canada, where he received a BSc degree from Sir George Williams University (1967) in Montreal, and then graduated from the University of Toronto's Faculty of Medicine in 1971. He practiced medicine in various places in Ontario, Canada: Warkworth, Campbellford, Scarborough, North York, and Toronto.\n\nIn 1988 he was accused of administering the stanozolol which led Ben Johnson to lose his 100m Gold Medal. These allegations were never proven and Dr. Astaphan denied them for the next 18 years. As a result of the Dubin Inquiry, he was fined by the Ontario College of Physicians and Surgeons in June 1991 and banned from practicing medicine in the province for 18 months.\n\nIn 1994, after the plane he was flying on was diverted to New York City, he was charged for conspiracy to distribute steroids, conspiracy to acquire cocaine and conspiracy to distribute cocaine. After nearly two years in a Florida prison without a trial, he was released with \"time served\" on the steroid charges but the Government had no case on the cocaine charges. After his release in late 1995, Astaphan returned to his native St. Kitts and Nevis where he continued to practice medicine until his death.\n\nHe died in 2006 of a heart attack at home in St. Kitts. He is survived by his three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "19637986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19637986", "title": "Gingivitis", "text": "Gingivitis\n\nGingivitis is a non-destructive disease that causes inflammation of the gums. The most common form of gingivitis, and the most common form of periodontal disease overall, is in response to bacterial biofilms (also called plaque) that is attached to tooth surfaces, termed \"plaque-induced gingivitis\".\nWhile some cases of gingivitis never progress to periodontitis, periodontitis is always preceded by gingivitis.\nGingivitis is reversible with good oral hygiene; however, without treatment, gingivitis can progress to periodontitis, in which the inflammation of the gums results in tissue destruction and bone resorption around the teeth. Periodontitis can ultimately lead to tooth loss. \n\nThe symptoms of gingivitis are somewhat non-specific and manifest in the gum tissue as the classic signs of inflammation:\n\nAdditionally, the stippling that normally exists in the gum tissue of some individuals will often disappear and the gums may appear shiny when the gum tissue becomes swollen and stretched over the inflamed underlying connective tissue. The accumulation may also emit an unpleasant odor. When the gingiva are swollen, the epithelial lining of the gingival crevice becomes ulcerated and the gums will bleed more easily with even gentle brushing, and especially when flossing.\n\n\nThe cause of plaque-induced gingivitis is bacterial plaque, which acts to initiate the body's host response. This, in turn, can lead to destruction of the gingival tissues, which may progress to destruction of the periodontal attachment apparatus. The plaque accumulates in the small gaps between teeth, in the gingival grooves and in areas known as \"plaque traps\": locations that serve to accumulate and maintain plaque. Examples of plaque traps include bulky and overhanging restorative margins, claps of removable partial dentures and calculus (tartar) that forms on teeth. Although these accumulations may be tiny, the bacteria in them produce chemicals, such as degradative enzymes, and toxins, such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS, otherwise known as endotoxin) or lipoteichoic acid (LTA), that promote an inflammatory response in the gum tissue. This inflammation can cause an enlargement of the gingiva and subsequent formation. Early plaque in health consists of a relatively simple bacterial community dominated by Gram-positive cocci and rods. As plaque matures and gingivitis develops, the communities become increasingly complex with higher proportions of Gram-negative rods, fusiforms, filaments, spirilla and spirochetes. Later experimental gingivitis studies, using culture, provided more information regarding the specific bacterial species present in plaque. Taxa associated with gingivitis included \"Fusobacterium nucleatum\" subspecies \"polymorphum\", \"Lachnospiraceae\" [G-2] species HOT100, \"Lautropia\" species HOTA94, and \"Prevotella oulorum\" (a species of \"Prevotella\" bacterium), whilst \"Rothia dentocariosa\" was associated with periodontal health. Further study of these taxa is warranted and may lead to new therapeutic approaches to prevent periodontal disease.\n\nRisk factors associated with gingivitis include the following:\n\nGingivitis is a category of periodontal disease in which there is no loss of bone but inflammation and bleeding are present.\n\nEach tooth is divided into four gingival units (mesial, distal, buccal, and lingual) and given a score from 0-3 based on the gingival index. The four scores are then averaged to give each tooth a single score.\n\nThe diagnosis of the periodontal disease gingivitis is done by a dentist. The diagnosis is based on clinical assessment data acquired during a comprehensive periodontal exam. Either a registered dental hygienist or a dentist may perform the comprehensive periodontal exam but the data interpretation and diagnosis are done by the dentist. The comprehensive periodontal exam consists of a visual exam, a series of radiographs, probing of the gingiva, determining the extent of current or past damage to the periodontium and a comprehensive review of the medical and dental histories.\n\nCurrent research shows that activity levels of the following enzymes in saliva samples are associated with periodontal destruction: aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and acid phosphatase (ACP). Therefore, these enzyme biomarkers may be used to aid in the diagnosis and treatment of gingivitis and periodontitis.\n\nA dental hygienist or dentist will check for the symptoms of gingivitis, and may also examine the amount of plaque in the oral cavity. A dental hygienist or dentist will also look for signs of periodontitis using X-rays or periodontal probing as well as other methods.\n\nIf gingivitis is not responsive to treatment, referral to a periodontist (a specialist in diseases of the gingiva and bone around teeth and dental implants) for further treatment may be necessary.\n\nAs defined by the 1999 World Workshop in Clinical Periodontics, there are two primary categories of gingival diseases, each with numerous subgroups:\n\nGingivitis can be prevented through regular oral hygiene that includes daily brushing and flossing. Hydrogen peroxide, saline, alcohol or chlorhexidine mouth washes may also be employed. In a 2004 clinical study, the beneficial effect of hydrogen peroxide on gingivitis has been highlighted. The use of oscillation type brushes might reduce the risk of gingivitis compared to manual brushing.\n\nRigorous plaque control programs along with periodontal scaling and curettage also have proved to be helpful, although according to the American Dental Association, periodontal scaling and root planing are considered as a treatment for periodontal disease, not as a preventive treatment for periodontal disease. In a 1997 review of effectiveness data, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) found clear evidence showing that toothpaste containing triclosan was effective in preventing gingivitis.\n\nThe focus of treatment is to remove plaque. Therapy is aimed at the reduction of oral bacteria and may take the form of regular periodic visits to a dental professional together with adequate oral hygiene home care. Thus, several of the methods used in the prevention of gingivitis can also be used for the treatment of manifest gingivitis, such as scaling, root planing, curettage, mouth washes containing chlorhexidine or hydrogen peroxide, and flossing. Interdental brushes also help remove any causative agents.\n\nPowered toothbrushes work better than manual toothbrushes in reducing the disease.\n\nThe active ingredients that \"reduce plaque and demonstrate effective reduction of gingival inflammation over a period of time\" are triclosan, chlorhexidine digluconate, and a combination of thymol, menthol, eucalyptol, and methyl salicylate. These ingredients are found in toothpaste and mouthwash. Hydrogen peroxide was long considered a suitable over-the-counter agent to treat gingivitis. There has been evidence to show the positive effect on controlling gingivitis in short-term use. A study indicates the fluoridated hydrogen peroxide-based mouth rinse can remove teeth stain and reduce gingivitis.\n\nBased on a limited evidence, mouthwashes with essential oils may also be useful, as they contain ingredients with anti-inflammatory properties, such as thymol, menthol and eucalyptol.\n\nThe bacteria that causes gingivitis can be controlled by using an oral irrigator daily with a mouthwash containing an antibiotic. Either amoxicillin, cephalexin, or minocycline in 16 ounces of a non-alcoholic fluoride mouthwash is an effective mixture.\n\nOverall, intensive oral hygiene care has been shown to improve gingival health in individuals with well-controlled type 2 diabetes. Periodontal destruction is also slowed down due to the extensive oral care. Intensive oral hygiene care (oral health education plus supra-gingival scaling) without any periodontal therapy improves gingival health, and may prevent progression of gingivitis in well-controlled diabetes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4066180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4066180", "title": "Gwendolyn Graham and Cathy Wood", "text": "Gwendolyn Graham and Cathy Wood\n\nGwendolyn Gail Graham (born August 6, 1963) and Catherine May Wood (born March 7, 1962) are American serial killers convicted of killing five elderly women in Walker, Michigan, a suburb of Grand Rapids, in the 1980s. They committed their crimes in the Alpine Manor nursing home, where they both worked as nurse's aides.\n\nThe two women met at the Alpine Manor nursing home shortly after Graham had moved to Michigan from Texas. They quickly became friends, and then lovers, in 1986. Two years later they both were facing murder charges for allegedly smothering five elderly patients as part of a \"love bond\".\n\nThe details of the murders came almost entirely from accounts to criminal justice authorities by Wood, whose murder charges were reduced by a plea agreement so she could testify against Graham in Graham's trial for first-degree murder. However, Wood's accounts and her self-portrayal as Graham's pawn were later brought into serious question by award-winning journalist Lowell Cauffiel in his 1992 true crime book, \"Forever and Five Days\".\n\nAccording to Wood's account, in January 1987, Graham entered the room of a woman who had Alzheimer's disease and smothered her with a wash cloth as Wood acted as her lookout. The woman was too incapacitated to fight back, and thus became the pair's first victim. The woman's death appeared to be natural, so an autopsy wasn't performed. Wood claimed Graham murdered the patient to \"relieve her tension.\" Each felt that the secret of the murder would prevent the other partner from leaving, thus cementing their bond.\n\nOver the next few months, Graham murdered four more Alpine Manor patients, Wood alleged. Many of the victims, whose ages ranged from 65 to 97, were incapacitated and suffered from Alzheimer's disease. Wood testified that the couple turned the selection of victims into a game, first trying to choose their victims by their initials to spell M-U-R-D-E-R. But when that became difficult, they began counting each murder as a \"day,\" as in the phrase, \"I will love you for forever and a day.\" A poem by Wood to Graham, and introduced in the trial, concluded, \"You'll be mine forever and five days.\" Wood also testified that Graham took souvenirs from the victims, keeping them to relive the deaths. However, no such souvenirs were ever discovered by police. Wood also portrayed Graham as being sexually, physically and emotionally dominant in their relationship.\n\nThe couple eventually broke up when Graham began dating another female nursing aide who also worked at Alpine Manor. Graham then moved to Texas with the woman and began work in a hospital taking care of infants.\n\nThe murder investigation began in 1988 after Wood's ex-husband, whom she had told about the murders, went to the police. Detectives for the Walker Police Department extensively questioned Cathy Wood in a series of interviews. She incrementally leaked out her version of the homicides, portraying Graham as the mastermind and hands-on killer. The investigation led to the exhumation of two nursing home victims who had not been cremated. But when medical examination failed to reveal physical evidence of homicide, not entirely unusual in a smothering case, the county medical examiner nevertheless ruled the deaths homicides, basing it on the interviews Wood had given to the police. Warrants were issued for the arrest of Wood and Graham. On December 4–5, 1988, Graham and Wood were arrested and charged with two murders. Wood was apprehended in Walker; Graham in Tyler, Texas.\n\nDuring the trial, Wood plea-bargained her way to a reduced sentence, claiming that it was Graham who planned and carried out the killings while she served as a lookout or distracted supervisors. Graham maintained her innocence, testifying that the alleged murders were part of an elaborate \"mind game\" by Wood. Despite the lack of physical evidence, the jury ultimately was swayed by the testimony of Graham's new girlfriend, who revealed that Graham had confessed to five killings.\n\nOn November 3, 1989, Graham was found guilty of five counts of murder and one count of conspiracy to commit murder, and the court gave her five life sentences. Graham is housed in the Women's Huron Valley Correctional Facility in Pittsfield Charter Township, Michigan.\n\nWood was charged with one count of second-degree murder and one count of conspiracy to commit second-degree murder. She was sentenced to 20 years on each count and has been eligible for parole since March 2, 2005. Wood is currently incarcerated in the minimum security Federal Correctional Institution, Tallahassee in Florida; she is expected to be released on June 6, 2021.\n\nHowever, as Lowell Cauffiel documents in his nonfiction book, friends, coworkers, family members and others who knew Graham and Wood told an entirely different story than the one Wood spun as the key witness in Graham's trial. They described Wood as both a coercive and seductive pathological liar who delighted in wreaking havoc in the lives of others. \"Forever and Five Days\" presents evidence that Wood planned the first murder after she found Graham with another woman. She involved Graham as an insurance policy to keep her from ever leaving her. When Graham left her anyway after the series of alleged killings, Wood was willing to put herself in legal jeopardy by disclosing to police to exact her revenge. The book portrays Wood as a psychopathic criminal mastermind who manipulated the prosecutor and the jury to punish Graham. Psychological testing also revealed Graham could be easily manipulated, suffered from borderline personality disorder and lacked the sophistication to plan the series of killings, let alone adequately defend herself in her trial.\n\nWood, the book also reveals, later told inmates two other versions of events: The first, that she had made the entire story up to put Graham away for life for leaving her for another woman.The second, that she had done all the killing, but framed Graham, also for revenge.\n\nSeveral of the families sued the owners of Alpine Manor for hiring \"dangerous and unbalanced employees\". Alpine Manor has since gone out of business, but the building now houses a nursing home called \"Sanctuary at Saint Mary's\".\n\nAs of 10/24/2018 Woods was granted early release and will be on probation for the next 24 months as part of her parole agreement. \nThe case was the basis of the 1992 true crime novel \"Forever and Five Days\" by Lowell Cauffiel.\n\nGraham and Wood were featured in two episodes of the TV series \"The Serial Killers\" in which they were interviewed about their relationship and crimes. They were also featured on an episode of \"\".\n\nThe television series \"American Horror Story\" tells a highly fictionalized version of their story in its sixth season, \"\". The duo are depicted as sisters Miranda and Bridget Jane.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59133873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59133873", "title": "Health in Northern Cyprus", "text": "Health in Northern Cyprus\n\nLife expectancy for men in Northern Cyprus is 78 years and for women 83 years.\n\nNorthern Cyprus has a public healthcare system which is available to all those who have social security insurance, and their partners and children. Use of the accident and emergency departments is free to anyone. 2023 patients were sent for treatment in Turkey at public expense in 2010, 22% for cardiovascular disease and 16% for cancer treatment. There are also private hospitals and private polyclinics and it is possible for people to get treatment in the Republic of Cyprus. \n\n"}
{"id": "23243905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23243905", "title": "Intake fraction", "text": "Intake fraction\n\nIntake fraction is a measurement of pollution and it can be used in the determination of the environmental health impact of a pollutant source. Intake fraction is the ratio of the mass of a pollutant inhaled or ingested to the mass of the pollutant emitted. Traditionally, scientists and policy makers have used a source-oriented approach to reduce health impacts from pollution. That is, they identified the largest producers of various pollutants and worked to reduce the amount of pollutants emitted. Exposure assessment, also referred to as exposure analysis, is a receptor-oriented science, and practitioners in this field focus on the sources of pollutants that result in the largest human exposure. The same principles can be used to assess pollutant impact on non-human organisms, but most exposure analysts focus on humans.\n\nIntake fraction is the total mass of a pollutant ingested or inhaled by all exposed individuals over a given time, per total mass of the pollutant emitted. The intake fraction can be divided into components that identify the specific pollutant source, route, media, and subpopulation of exposed individuals. For example, policy makers may be interested in the total mass of mercury emitted by one specific coal-burning electric generator that is ingested in water by the residents living below the poverty level in one specific town.\n\nMathematically, intake fraction can be represented by the mass of pollutant intake divided by the mass of pollutant emitted:\n\nIntake Fraction = Mass of Pollutant Intake (summed over all exposed individuals) / Mass of Pollutant Emitted\n\nDirect measurement of intake fraction would only be reasonably possible in very specific, small scale situations. For example, direct measurement of carbon monoxide from a space heater in a small house with three occupants could be achieved if each of the occupants used a personal CO monitor. Most situations of interest are too complicated to measure directly and modeling is used to estimate intake fraction. The models take into account the mass of pollutant released from the source, the horizontal and vertical distance between the point of emission and the exposed individuals, atmospheric conditions for outdoor sources, number of exposed individuals, and the time of exposure for these individuals.\n\nThe health impact of a pollutant source can be represented by the product of the total mass of a pollutant emitted, the intake fraction of the pollutant, and the toxicity of the pollutant. In the form of an equation:\n\nHealth Impact = Total Mass Emitted * Intake Fraction * Toxicity\n\nPolicy makers can use the intake fraction from various sources of a pollutant to determine which source will yield the largest return on the investment to reduce the pollutant. For example, an oil drilling facility may emit far greater mass of pollutants than a refueling station. However, if the oil drilling is located on a platform 10 miles offshore and the refueling station is in an urban area, then very few people will be exposed to the emitted pollutants. A relatively small reduction in emissions from the refueling station may yield a larger reduction in health impact than a large reduction at the oil platform.\n\nPolicy makers may also be interested in comparing the intake fraction among various groups within the population to assess environmental justice. For example, it may be of interest to determine the intake fraction of low-income residents of a town versus high-income residents of the town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34917884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34917884", "title": "International Volcanic Health Hazard Network", "text": "International Volcanic Health Hazard Network\n\nThe International Volcanic Health Hazard Network (IVHHN) is an organization that provides research and information on the health hazards and impacts of volcanic eruptions. IVHHN work covers a range of research areas including volcanology, toxicology, public health and exposure science, with the goal of determining the health impacts of volcanic emissions and how to protect exposed communities.\n\nAccording to the IVHHN website, the main aims of IVHHN are to: \n\nImprove Communication\n\n\nPromote Research\n\n\nInstigate Collaboration\n\n\nIVHHN has created a range of evidence-based audio-visual and printable products on the health hazards of volcanic emissions and community protection, for the general public and humanitarian agencies, which can be distributed at the onset of new eruptions. These include:\n\nVideos\n\n\nPrintable Products\n\n\nThe IVHHN website also hosts a set of scientific protocols for the collection and analysis of volcanic ash, and a comprehensive library of academic papers and books published on the health hazards and impacts of volcanic eruptions.\n\nIVHHN was founded in 2003 by its Director, Dr Claire Horwell, an Associate Professor at Durham University, UK. The network is a Commission of the International Association of Volcanology and Chemistry of the Earth's Interior (IAVCEI). IVHHN advises governmental agencies on preparing communities for eruptions and works closely with humanitarian agencies such as the Pan American Health Organization. IVHHN also administers the Hawaii Interagency Vog Dashboard, an online portal for information about volcanic emissions from Kilauea volcano. IVHHN was cited, by Forbes Magazine, as being an excellent source of information during the 2018 eruption crisis at Kilauea volcano, Hawaii. \n\n"}
{"id": "35670227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35670227", "title": "Intervention mapping", "text": "Intervention mapping\n\nIntervention mapping is a protocol for developing theory-based and evidence-based health promotion programs. Intervention Mapping describes the process of health promotion program planning in six steps:\n\n\nIntervention mapping is characterized by three perspectives: an ecological approach, participation of all stakeholders, and the use of theories and evidence. Although intervention mapping is presented as a series of steps, the authors see the planning process as iterative rather than linear. Program planners move back and forth between tasks and steps. The process is also cumulative: each step is based on previous steps, and inattention to a particular step may lead to mistakes and inadequate decisions.\n\nIntervention mapping was first developed and introduced in 1998 by L. Kay Bartholomew, Guy S. Parcel & Gerjo Kok, with an article in Health Education & Behavior. In 2001 the first edition of the book followed, with Nell H. Gottlieb as 4th author. In 2006, the 2nd edition was published, and in 2011, the 3rd edition, with Maria E. Fernández as 5th author. The 4th edition appeared in 2016, authored by L. Kay Bartholomew Eldridge, Christine M. Markham, Robert A.C. Ruiter, Maria Fernández, Gerjo Kok & Guy S. Parcel. This was the last edition led by L. Kay Bartholomew Eldridge, who passed away in February 2016.\n\nIntervention mapping was developed as a reaction to a lack of comprehensive frameworks for health promotion program development. Intervention mapping aims to help health promoters develop the best possible intervention. The key words in this protocol are planning, research, and theory. Intervention mapping provides a vocabulary for intervention planning, procedures for planning activities, and technical assistance with identifying theory-based determinants and methods for change. Intervention mapping can also help in adapting existing interventions to new populations and settings, and provides a taxonomy of behavior change methods that can be used to code intervention content. In the health promotion field, intervention mapping has successfully been applied in various settings, to a wide range of different behaviors and populations. It may help planners develop theory- and evidence-based interventions to promote healthy behavior.\n\nMore specifically, intervention mapping ensures that theoretical models and empirical evidence guide planners in two areas: (1) the identification of behavioral and environmental determinants related to a target problem, and (2) the selection of the most appropriate theoretical methods and practical applications to address the identified determinants. Although intervention mapping is considered a helpful tool to design programs, it is true that it is a complex and time-consuming process, reflecting the difficulty of changing health behaviors. Intervention mapping has been described as tiresome, complex, elaborate, expensive and time consuming.\nDespite these criticisms, the same authors also concluded that intervention mapping helped to bring the development of interventions to a higher level, indicating that advantages outweighed disadvantages. Intervention mapping is developed in the health promotion field but can easily be applied in other fields, such as promoting energy conservation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30322487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30322487", "title": "Kaja Beedi", "text": "Kaja Beedi\n\nKajah Beedi is an iconic beedi brand from Thrissur in Kerala, India. The company is situated in Chavakkad in Thrissur District. The brand is owned by Kajah Beedi Company of Rajah Group. The company was started in 1948 by Hajee A Abdul Kader Sahib. Around 45,000 workers are working in this company.\n"}
{"id": "32796426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32796426", "title": "Lake Jennings", "text": "Lake Jennings\n\nLake Jennings is a water supply reservoir in San Diego County, California. It is located in the Cuyamaca Mountains.\n\nPeople can have picnics at Lake Jennings.\n\nThe campground at Lake Jennings Park has a variety of campsites available, including hookups and primitive tent sites.\n\nLicensed people can fish at Lake Jennings on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7322397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7322397", "title": "Lee Kim Sai", "text": "Lee Kim Sai\n\nTan Sri Dato' Sri Lee Kim Sai () is a Malaysian politician. In the 1980s and 1990s, he served as Health Minister, Labour Minister and Housing and Local Government Minister, and was deputy president of Malaysian Chinese Association (MCA).\n\nLee was born on 1 March 1937 to a poor family in Ulu Klang, Selangor, and was brought up in Jinjang, Kuala Lumpur. He was educated at Chong Hwa High School in Kuala Lumpur, then trained as a teacher at the Teachers' Training College in Kuala Lumpur. He started teaching in 1957, and rose to become the principal of Kepong Chinese School.\n\nLee joined the MCA in 1965, and stood for parliament for the Kepong constituency in the 1969 general election, but lost to Tan Chee Khoon of Gerakan. In the 1974 election he won the Rawang state seat, which he retained in the 1978 election. He became head of MCA Youth in 1979, and was also elected vice-president of MCA the same year. He was elected a member of parliament in the 1982 general election, and was appointed deputy minister in the Prime Minister's Department.\n\nIn 1984, in a row over allegation of fictitious membership that supported the Acting President Dr. Neo Yee Pan, he was expelled from MCA along with Tan Koon Swan, Ling Liong Sik and others by the Acting President. In the ensuing party election to resolve the crisis, Tan Koon Swan was elected president with the largest majority in the party's history, and Lee was elected one of the vice-presidents as well as the Party Secretary General. Tan however resigned the next year over a scandal involving his business dealings in Singapore, and Ling Lion Sik took over as President while Lee moved up to become the Deputy President. Lee was appointed Minister of Labour in 1986, and in 1989, he became Minister of Housing and Local Government. He then became the Minister of Health from 1990 until 1995.\n\nLee was outspoken on a number of sensitive issues, such as questioning the Malaysian New Economic Policy and the political dominance of the Malays. In particular, in early November 1986, the MCA Selangor of which he was its head, passed a resolution in its annual convention calling on the government to review the Sedition Act and to make it an offence to call any of the three major races immigrants or \"pendatang\". The resolution, which stated that Malaysia's three major races originated from other countries and that none of them should brand the others as immigrants and claim themselves to be natives. This was interpreted as challenging the bumiputra status of the Malays, which led to calls for his sacking by members of UMNO, and the withdrawal of his datukship by the Sultan of Selangor (later restored). He also joined a protest rally with the opposition Democratic Action Party objecting to the appointments of senior assistants and supervisors without qualifications in Mandarin in Chinese primary schools. The events precipitated the Operation Lalang in 1987 whereby over a hundred politicians and activists were detained, and Lee left for Australia for a few months.\n\nIn 1993, he attempted to challenge Ling for the leadership of MCA, but backed down after failing to gain enough support. He retired from politics in 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46979864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46979864", "title": "Leopold Bellak", "text": "Leopold Bellak\n\nLeopold Bellak (1916–2000) was an psychologist, psychoanalyst, and psychiatrist who pioneered the famous Children's Apperception Test CAT). He also colloborated on the Thematic Apperception Test. (TAT) on clinical psychological assessments, and pioneered the discovery of ADHD (Attention Deficit) as being a genetic disorder.. Dr. Bellak created the 67 year old publishing house, CPS Publishing LLC. www,cpspublishinginc.com. \n\nHe was born in Vienna, Austria and as a refugee moved to the United States in 1939. In addition, he was the author of many books and manuscripts. His tests and books are used in universities, and by clinicians globally. \n\nHe received the APA Award for Distinguished Professional Contributions to Applied Research in 1979. He received the Bruno Klopfer Award in 1991. These and many others were awarded to him for his many achievements. \n"}
{"id": "23339740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23339740", "title": "Mass drug administration", "text": "Mass drug administration\n\nThe administration of drugs to whole populations irrespective of disease status is referred to as mass drug administration (MDA).\n\nThis article describes the administration of antimalarial drugs to whole populations an intervention which has been used as a malaria-control measure for more than 70 years. Recent proposals to eliminate or even to eradicate malaria have led to a renewed interest in mass drug administrations in areas with very high malaria endemicity. Drugs have been administered either directly as a full therapeutic course of treatment or indirectly through the fortification of salt. Mass drug administrations were generally unsuccessful in interrupting transmission but, in some cases, had a marked effect on parasite prevalence and on the incidence of clinical malaria. MDAs are likely to encourage the spread of drug-resistant parasites and so have only a limited role in malaria control. They may have a part to play in the management of epidemics and in the control of malaria in areas with a very short transmission season. In order to reduce the risk of spreading drug resistance, MDAs should use more than one drug and, preferably include a drug, such as an artemisinin, which has an effect on gametocytes. MDAs have low acceptance in areas with low malaria endemicity.\n\nAnother example of mass drug administration is mass deworming of children to remove helminth infections (intestinal worms).\n\nReports of attempts to control malaria through mass treatment with antimalarial drugs date back to at least 1932. In the 1950s, the WHO included mass drug administration (MDA) of antimalarial drugs as a tool for malaria eradication ‘in exceptional conditions when conventional control techniques have failed. In 1971, the WHO expert committee on malaria still recommended MDA in special circumstances. Subsequently, MDA was linked to the emergence of drug resistance and its overall benefit was questioned. Concomitantly, the goal of malaria eradication was replaced by one of prevention of malaria morbidity and mortality through the provision of effective treatment. Considering the short lasing benefit of mass drug administration one modification has been to repeat mass drug administrations which has led to the development of intermittent preventive therapy.\n\nTwo methods of MDA, direct and indirect, have been used. In direct MDA, also referred to as ‘Mass drug treatment’, a therapeutic dose of the antimalarial drug, usually in the form of tablets, is given to an entire population. In indirect MDA, the antimalarial drug is added to food stuff, usually salt.\n\nThe first, well documented use of direct MDA took place in a rubber plantation in Liberia in 1931. Two doses of the 8-aminoquinoline plasmoquine were given weekly to workers and their families in two camps. The prevalences of malaria parasite infections in humans and anopheline mosquitoes before and after treatment were studied. The authors concluded that ‘the fall in the mosquito infection rate of the two plasmoquine treated camps was so large as to indicate a local disappearance, or at least a great reduction, in gametocyte carriers in the treated population’. No long-term follow up data were provided for this study or most of the trials reported subsequently. The next documented use of MDA in sub-Saharan Africa took place in 1948 and 1949 in tea estates in Kericho, Kenya. Ten thousand inhabitants of the tea estates received twice weekly proguanil from April to July 1948. The intervention was supplemented with DDT spraying in March and June of the following year. Before the intervention the mean malaria incidence in July, the peak of the malaria transmission season, was 56 cases per 1000 population. Following the intervention 4 malaria cases were detected in July 1949. The author therefore recommended continuation of twice weekly proguanil prophylaxis on the estates.\nThe Nandi district of Kenya was the scene of a large MDA in 1953 and 1954. The target population of 83,000 received a single dose of pyrimethamine at the beginning of the malaria season in 1953 and 1954. The coverage was estimated to be around 95%. Before the intervention severe malaria epidemics had been reported in the area. Following the intervention the parasite prevalence dropped from 23% to 2.3%. The author states that in a control area parasite prevalence rose over the same period to over 50%. It was felt that the MDA was effective in curbing severe malaria epidemics. In the following three years, 1955 to 1957, pyrimethamine administration was replaced with Dieldrin spraying to consolidate malaria control, which makes an assessment of the long-term effect of this MDA impossible.\n\nDuring a pilot programme in Uganda in 1959 mass administration of chloroquine / pyrimethamine was combined with spraying of residual insecticides (DDT). The success of the pilot programme led to a larger study targeted at a population of 16,000. Because of logistic problems, only half of the target population received the first round of MDA. According to the investigators, the intervention resulted in the eradication of the vector and rapid elimination of malaria from the area.\n\nTwo large trials of MDA combined with household spraying with DDT were conducted in Cameroun and Upper Volta (Burkina Faso) in 1960–1961. In both trials, substantial reductions in the prevalence of parasitaemia were achieved but transmission was not interrupted. In Bobo-Dioulasso, where primaquine was used in combination with either chloroquine or amodiaquine, the prevalence of gametocytes and Anopheles gambiae sporozoites were reduced substantially. A MDA was also combined with DDT spraying in Zanzibar (Dola 1974). After the MDA, the parasite prevalence in children decreased, but the overall parasite prevalence increased slightly, thus failing to deplete the reservoir of infection.\n\nTwo trials in Northern Nigeria combined multiple rounds of MDA and insecticide spraying. The first trial, in Kankiya, included 11 rounds of MDA combined with 8 rounds of DDT indoor spraying. The study was based on computer-aided models that showed that MDA could eradicate malaria in the study area if combined with an appropriate ‘insecticide attack’. Following MDAs, parasite prevalence dropped from 19% to 1%. The investigators did not consider this a success because parasite prevalence increased again after the interventions were stopped. Entomological indices also showed only a temporary reduction in transmission, which was completely reversed after the control measures ceased. Because the investigators felt that the failure of the trial to interrupt transmission was due to operational inadequacies, they recommended a much larger and more sophisticated evaluation of insecticide spraying combined with MDA. This recommendation helped to launch the Garki project, also in Northern Nigeria, in 1969. In the Garki project, all 164 study villages in the catchment area were sprayed with propoxur, a residual insecticide. In addition, in 60 villages, MDA with sulfalene / pyrimethamine was given at 10-week intervals for two years. In two small village clusters, house spraying was supplemented with larvicide and MDA every two weeks. With biweekly MDA, parasite prevalence fell to 1% in the dry season and to 5% in the rainy season. MDA given every 10 weeks resulted in a parasite prevalence of 2% in the dry season and 28% in the rainy season. Transmission was not interrupted with either MDA regime. The authors concluded that spraying of residual insecticides and MDA did not result in a sustainable interruption of malaria transmission.\n\nIn 1999 in The Gambia residents living in 33 of 42 villages in the catchment area received a single dose of sulfadoxine / pyrimethamine (SP) combined with artesunate while the residents of nine control villages received placebo. Following the MDA, 1388 children ≤10 years of age living in nine control villages and in nine matched villages which had been allocated active treatment were kept under surveillance for clinical malaria throughout the transmission season. Initially, during July and August, the mean malaria incidence rate in treated villages was significantly lower than in the control villages. In subsequent months, the incidence was slightly higher in the MDA villages. The difference between the two groups was not statistically significant. Overall no benefit of the mass drug administration was detected over the course of the malaria transmission season.\n\nA mass drug administration campaign using S/P, artesunate and primaquine was completed in Moshi district, Tanzania in 2008. The findings have yet to be published.\n\nOutside of sub-Saharan Africa one of the larger reported malaria-control projects using MDA took place in Nicaragua in 1981 following the overthrow of the Somoza regime. An estimated 70% of Nicaragua’s total population (1.9 million people) received chloroquine and primaquine during the peak period of disease transmission (November). An estimated 9200 cases of malaria were prevented. The campaign had better results in preventing and curing malaria infections than in interrupting transmission. However, the mass administration of antimalarials was not sustainable and, as with other malaria-control efforts, collapsed following the return of politically conservative forces.\n\nIn three malaria-control projects conducted in the Indian states of Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Orissa in the early 1960s, MDA had an ancillary role and was mentioned only briefly in reports on these interventions. More detailed information is available following a focal outbreak in two villages in Gujarat State during 1978-1979. Here a mass administration of chloroquine was part of a programme of intensified surveillance, case management, health education, and residual spraying. The incidence of malaria decreased so that, by the end of 1979, the authors considered the intervention to be a success. In 1980, in areas of Andhra Pradesh State in India, residual spraying was combined with a MDA. During the period of lowest malaria incidence a single dose of chloroquine plus primaquine was distributed to the whole population in eight villages. A second dose was given after an interval of 2–3 months. This project failed to reduce malaria incidence and was considered to be a failure.\n\nIn 1984, MDA was added to the distribution of insecticide-impregnated bed nets (ITNs) in Sabah (Malaysia), but this failed to interrupt malaria transmission. A MDA in Sumatra, Indonesia in 1987 focused on schoolchildren. Eight months after the MDA, \"Plasmodium falciparum\" prevalence had decreased from 14% to 1%.\n\nThe only reported project with an MDA component which succeeded in permanently interrupting malaria transmission took place on the island of Aneityum, Vanuatu. Starting in September 1991, three malaria-control activities were employed – permethrin-impregnated bednets, larvivorous fish and the administration of three antimalarials. This MDA comprised 300 mg chloroquine base and 45 mg pyrimethamine weekly for nine weeks. An additional 300 mg chloroquine and 75 mg pyrimethamine plus 1500 mg sulfadoxine was added to this regimen in the first, fifth, and ninth week. Children received an adjusted equivalent of the adult dose. Follow-up consisted of yearly parasite surveillance. During the seven surveillance years following the MDA, no \"P.falciparum\" infections were detected.\n\nMDA is included in the malaria-control policy of the People’s Republic of China. Following the first malaria-control phase from 1955 to 1962, which was mostly focused on malaria surveys, mass administrations were added to vector control measures and improved case management in 10 of China’s 33 provinces. The drugs used in the administrations, mostly chloroquine and piperaquine, were provided free of charge by the central government. The economic reforms instituted by Deng Xiaoping, which ultimately put an end to the provision of free health care through the central government and the emergence of resistance against the most widely used antimalarials modified the use of mass drug administrations after 1980. MDAs are now targeted at high-risk populations, specifically non-immune migratory workers who receive repeated courses during the high transmission season. According to government guidelines, piperaquine, chloroquine, or sulfadoxine combined with primaquine can be used for mass administrations. The artemisinin derivatives are not used in mass drug administrations and are reserved for treatment failures. Malaria burden and control measures are shown in Table 1. Between 1990 and 2000 the malaria prevalence dropped from 10.6 to 1.9 / 100,000, the number of reported malaria cases dropped from 117,359 to 24,088 while the number of reported deaths attributable to malaria remained stable. These data, reported to the national government, depend on reporting from health care providers and like all data depending on passive surveillance tend to underestimate the true disease burden. However, there is no reason to think that the level of underreporting has changed over the last decade. Therefore, the proportional reduction in malaria disease burden is likely to be true. Malaria-control measures, including MDA, as well as major ecologic changes during the second half of the last century are likely to have been responsible for the more than 100-fold reduction in malaria burden in China since the initial surveys in 1955. The widespread use of antimalarials has been followed by the emergence of drug resistance especially in regions with high drug use. By 1995 more than 95% of \"P.falciparum\" strains isolated in the South of Yunnan province were found to be resistant to chloroquine, and piperaquine while in the remainder of Yunnan and Hainan province the resistance rates were 85%and 38% respectively.\n\nA different approach to MDA consists of adding an antimalarial to an essential foodstuff, usually salt. Chloroquinized salt for malaria suppression was introduced by Pinotti in 1952 and gave promising results in a number of field trials and malaria-control programmes in Brazil.\n\nIn 1959, the WHO conducted a trial in West New Guinea (later known as Irian Jaya). Salt crystals were mixed with pyrimethamine so as to provide a 0.07% pyrimethamine salt. As there were no shops in the catchment area, each family unit received fortnightly a quantity of salt from the local teacher or another member of the village community. Within three and a half months of the onset of the campaign, clinically significant levels of pyrimethamine resistance were reported. It was then decided to mix the remaining stock of pyrimethaminized salt with chloroquine powder. The chloroquine base content was 0.04% or 140 mg per adult per week based on a 5g per day salt consumption. The emergence of chloroquine resistance was investigated, but this was not detected. The distribution of medicated salts otherwise had no effect and it was concluded that \"‘Pinotti’s method holds no prospect of malaria eradication…’\". The explanation for this finding given by the author is that \"‘the salt consumption by children was too small to reduce significantly the parasite reservoir of the younger age groups’\".\n\nBetween 1961 and 1965, the use of chloroquinized salt was made compulsory over an area of 109,000km2 in Guyana, covering a population of 48,500 individuals. The chloroquinized salt was prepared at a state salt plant so as to provide a 0.43% chloroquine concentration. The salt was sold in two pound plastic bags. The state held the monopoly for the salt. The only alternative source was salt smuggled from Brazil. Although the chloroquinized salt was used, its popularity was limited by the occurrence of a photo-allergic dermatitis popularly called ‘salt itch’ noted in all treatment areas. Chloroquine resistance was first observed in 1962 in the area with the lowest relative uptake of chloroquinized salt. In the course of the following months, a complete replacement of the susceptible strains with resistant \"P. falciparum\" strains was observed. Following the reintroduction of DDT spraying, the prevalence of \"P. falciparum\" declined.\n\nIn Southeast Asia, the medicated salt project at Pailin, on the Kampuchea-Thai border, demonstrated how drug resistance can develop when a large population of \"P. falciparum\" undergoing high transmission rates is exposed to intense drug pressure. The project was launched in 1960 and covered a population of approximately 20,000. Sea salt was mixed with pyrimethamine at a concentration of 0.05%. Between 1960 and 1961, 77 tons of medicated salt were distributed in the area. After widespread pyrimethamine resistance was reported, pyrimethamine was replaced by chloroquine. From 1961 to 1962, 75 tons of chloroquine were distributed. In two indicator districts, the parasite rates decreased from 40% to 7% and from 27% to 14%. Chloroquine resistant \"P.falciparum\" isolates were first detected in Pailin in 1962 which appeared to be widespread by 1966. However no survey was undertaken to document the prevalence in the area. The factors leading to the emergence and spread of drug resistance appear to have been the continuous introduction of non-immune migrants, attracted by the promise of quick wealth from mining of precious stones, and prolonged drug pressure resulting from individual drug consumption and mass drug administration. Unrelated to MDAs the emergence of artemisinin resistant \"P.falciparum\" strains was reported in Pailin in 2008, this may have been related to overuse of artemisinin derivateves including counterfeit drugs but was not related to programmatic MDAs.\n\nFurther malaria-control projects have used MDA, but have never been published, or have been published as technical reports.\n\nWhether MDAs can be considered successful or not depends on the expectation of what they might achieve; many studies do not define whether their main aim was to interrupt transmission or to control disease. When MDAs were used as part of an attempt to interrupt transmission completely, they almost always failed. Only one project, conducted on Aneityum, a small isolated island in the Pacific, succeeded in permanently interrupting transmission using MDA as one of several malaria-control strategies. However, although unable to interrupt transmission, many MDA projects led to a marked reduction in parasite prevalence and probably had a marked also transient effect on malaria-related morbidity and mortality. Most of the early trials used study designs which would now be considered inadequate to provide a definitive answer on study outcome. For example, before-and-after comparisons were used frequently. Such comparisons are especially unreliable for vector-borne diseases which may show marked variations in incidence from season to season as well as from year to year. Furthermore, in several studies only a single intervention and control area or group were compared despite the fact a single control group cannot provide statistically interpretable results (see \"n\" = 1 fallacy).\n\nThe deficiencies in the study designs mentioned above reflect the evolution of research methodology over the last 50 years. The evaluation of an intervention such as MDA is complicated by the fact that the effect of the intervention on transmission can only be measured at the community and not at the individual level. Trial methods which use a community, a village, or a cluster as unit of inference have taken longer to evolve than those used for individually randomized trials. There are, with some notable exceptions, few properly designed and analysed cluster randomized trials conducted by health care researchers prior to 1978. One major handicap for researchers who need to use the cluster approach, besides the need for a large sample size, is the need to use statistical methods that differ from the familiar methods used in individually randomized trials. Significant progress has been made in the development of statistical methods for the analysis of correlated data.\n\nThe present unpopularity of MDA is not only due to doubts regarding the health benefit of this intervention but to the fear that MDAs will facilitate the spread of drug resistance. Concern that MDA would cause pyrimethamine and later chloroquine resistance was first raised in the early 1960s. Circumstantial evidence linked the use of medicated salts to the emergence of chloroquine resistance in the 1980s: Chloroquine resistance emerged first in three foci, namely South America (Colombia, Venezuela, Brazil), Southeast Asia (Thailand/Kampuchea), and Africa (Tanzania/Kenya). Payne has argued that the one common factor between these three epidemiologically diverse areas was widespread distribution of medicated salts prior to the emergence of chloroquine resistance.\n\nIn contrast to indirect MDA, emergence of drug resistance has not been linked to the administration of therapeutic doses of antimalarials through direct MDA programmes. The likely explanation lies in the different pharmacokinetic profiles that result from these two methods of drug administration. The administration of therapeutically dosed antimalarial drugs results in a single peak drug level which kills all susceptible strains. Only during the terminal half life of the drug when the concentration drops below the C, the inhibitory concentration which kills the large majority of a parasite population, will new infections with more resistant strains have a survival advantage. Thus drugs with a very short terminal half-life, including artemisinin derivatives, carry a lower risk of selecting resistant parasites than longer acting drugs. In contrast, the administration of medicated salts is likely to result in drug levels undulating in the sub-lethal range, which reach a steady state after several doses have been administered. The situation is worse if drugs such as chloroquine are used which accumulate progressively. This situation, a steady increase in drug concentration, is identical to the experimental design used for the in vitro induction of drug resistance. Medicated salt projects can be considered as large scale \"in vivo\" experiments designed to select resistant parasites.\n\nThe administration of antimalarials to large numbers of individuals with little or no preliminary screening could result in significant toxicity as nearly all antimalarials in common use can occasionally cause serious adverse events. For example, the widespread use of 8-aminoquinolines in areas where Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency is common carries the risk of precipitating episodes of haemolysis. Few MDA projects have reported specifically on adverse events. No life-threatening outcomes have been reported as a result of an MDA but a rare serious adverse event such as a blood dyscrasia would probably not have been detected without active surveillance for adverse events which was not reported in any of the studies. There is a theoretical risk that administration of antimalarial drugs during the course of MDAs to women in the first trimester of pregnancy, some of whom may not know that they are pregnant, could lead to foetal abnormalities. The benefit of malaria control has to be weighed against potential problems. Hence MDA is likely to be only used in areas with very high malaria endemicity.\n\n"}
{"id": "11167175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11167175", "title": "Mental Health Awareness Month", "text": "Mental Health Awareness Month\n\nMental Health Awareness Month (also referred to as \"Mental Health Month\") has been observed in May in the United States since 1949, reaching millions of people in the United States through the media, local events, and screenings.\n\nMental Health Awareness Month was started in the United States in 1949 by the Mental Health America organization (then known as the National Association for Mental Health). Each year in mid-March Mental Health America releases a \"toolkit of materials\" to guide preparation for outreach activities during Mental Health Awareness Month. During the month of May, Mental Health America, its affiliates, and other organizations interested in mental health conduct a number of activities which are based on a different theme each year.\n\nThemes from recent years include:\n\nIts purpose is to raise awareness and educate the public about: mental illnesses, such as the 18.1% of Americans who suffer from depression, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder; the realities of living with these conditions; and strategies for attaining mental health and wellness. It also aims to draw attention to suicide, which can be precipitated by some mental illnesses. Additionally, Mental Health Awareness Month strives to reduce the stigma (negative attitudes and misconceptions) that surrounds mental illnesses. The month came about by presidential proclamation.\n\nMental Health America is not the only organization to run campaigns throughout May. Many other similar organizations choose to host awareness observances that coincide with Mental Health Awareness month. National Children's Mental Health Awareness Day is one such campaign. This event is sponsored by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in partnership with other non-profit and advocacy organizations.\n\nOther months and weeks throughout the year are designated to raise awareness around specific mental health conditions or the mental health of different demographic groups (Minority Mental Health Month, Mental Illness Awareness Week, National Depression Screening Day, etc.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21820452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21820452", "title": "National Board of Medical Examiners", "text": "National Board of Medical Examiners\n\nThe National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME), founded in 1915, is a United States operation which sets state recognised examinations for medical students. The NBME is an independent, not-for-profit organization which posted $218,671,884 in publicly traded marketable securities according to the 2014 Non-Profit informational Tax Return Form 990, and is headquartered on and adjacent to the University City Science Center research campus in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. According to the board, its mission is to \"protect the health of the public through state of the art assessment of health professionals.\" The board emphasizes that \"while NBME's mission is centered on assessment of physicians, this mission encompasses the spectrum of health professionals along the continuum of education, training and practice and includes research in evaluation as well as development of assessment instruments\". The president of the NBME in 2014, Donald E. Melnick, per their Form 990 made $960,592 in reportable NBME compensation and $125,902 in other NBME compensation, totaling $1,086,494.\n\nThe board rose in prominence in the years after World War II. Prior to the war, states administered their own exams, and operated agreements to license doctors passed by other state exams. After the war, states began to use the results of an NBME exam to decide whether to award a license. This system meant students would sit the same exam.\n\nThe United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE), introduced in 1992, is a multi-part professional exam sponsored by the Federation of State Medical Boards (FSMB) and the NBME, and must be passed before a Doctor of Medicine can obtain a license to practice medicine in the United States.\n\nThe NBME creates self-assessment exams for the programs it runs including USMLE Step 1 and USMLE Step 2 CK. As of February 2018, these assessment tests are available only in expanded feedback version costing $60 and displays the incorrectly answered questions in addition to the analytics. The assessments now provide the correct answer to questions in the expanded feedback version. Prior to this, students frequently discussed the questions among themselves on online forums to reach the correct answer. The latest NBME in the series of NBME tests is NBME 19.\n\n"}
{"id": "37155135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37155135", "title": "Neuropsychiatric Forum", "text": "Neuropsychiatric Forum\n\nNeuropsychiatric Forum (NPF) is an international non-profit educational institution and professional organization whose primary mission is the development of neuropsychiatry. NPF was founded in 2011 in Prague, Czech Republic. In June 2011, NPF organized the first conference in Kaiserstein Palace in Prague attended by over 200 neurologists, psychiatrists, and psychologists.\nNPF collaborates with several other professional organizations such as the European Society for Trauma and Dissociation (ESTD) and the European Federation of Psychiatric Trainees (EFPT).\n\nNPF has similar scope like some other associations include the American Neuropsychiatric Association (ANPA), the British Neuropsychiatry Association (BNPA), or the International Neuropsychiatric Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "1720874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1720874", "title": "Osgood–Schlatter disease", "text": "Osgood–Schlatter disease\n\nOsgood–Schlatter disease (OSD), also known as apophysitis of the tibial tubercle, is inflammation of the patellar ligament at the tibial tuberosity. It is characterized by a painful bump just below the knee that is worse with activity and better with rest. Episodes of pain typically last a few months. One or both knees may be affected and flares may recur.\nRisk factors include overuse, especially sports which involve running or jumping. The underlying mechanism is repeated tension on the growth plate of the upper tibia. Diagnosis is typically based on the symptoms. A plain X-ray may be either normal or show fragmentation in the attachment area.\nPain typically resolves with time. Applying cold to the affected area, stretching, and strengthening exercises may help. NSAIDs such as ibuprofen may be used. Slightly less stressful activity may be recommended.\nAbout 4% of people are affected at some point in time. Males between the ages of 10 and 15 are most often affected. After growth slows, typically age 16 in boys and 14 in girls, the pain will no longer occur despite a bump potentially remaining. The condition is named after Robert Bayley Osgood (18731956), an American orthopedic surgeon, and Carl B. Schlatter (18641934), a Swiss surgeon, who described the condition independently in 1903.\n\nOsgood–Schlatter disease causes pain in the front lower part of the knee. This is usually at the ligament-bone junction of the patellar ligament and the tibial tuberosity. The tibial tuberosity is a slight elevation of bone on the anterior and proximal portion of the tibia. The patellar tendon attaches the anterior quadriceps muscles to the tibia via the knee cap.\n\nIntense knee pain is usually the presenting symptom that occurs during activities such as running, jumping, squatting, and especially ascending or descending stairs and during kneeling. The pain is worse with acute knee impact. The pain can be reproduced by extending the knee against resistance, stressing the quadriceps, or striking the knee. Pain is initially mild and intermittent. In the acute phase, the pain is severe and continuous in nature. Impact of the affected area can be very painful. Bilateral symptoms are observed in 20–30% of people.\n\nRisk factors include overuse, especially sports which involve running or jumping. The underlying mechanism is repeated tension on the growth plate of the upper tibia. It also occurs frequently in male pole vaulters aged 14-22.\n\nDiagnosis is made based on signs and symptoms.\n\nThis test can see various warning signs that predict if OSD might occur. Ultrasonography can detect if there is any swelling within the tissue as well as cartilage swelling. Ultrasonography's main goal is to identify OSD in the early stage rather than later on. It has unique features such as detection of an increase of swelling within the tibia or the cartilage surrounding the area and can also see if there is any new bone starting to build up around the tibial tuberosity.\n\nOSD may result in an avulsion fracture, with the tibial tuberosity separating from the tibia (usually remaining connected to a tendon or ligament). This injury is uncommon because there are mechanisms that prevent strong muscles from doing damage. The fracture on the tibial tuberosity can be a complete or incomplete break.\n\nType I: A small fragment is displaced proximally and does not require surgery.\n\nType II: The articular surface of the tibia remains intact and the fracture occurs at the junction where the secondary center of ossification and the proximal tibial epiphysis come together (may or may not require surgery).\n\nType III: Complete fracture (through articular surface) including high chance of meniscal damage. This type of fracture usually requires surgery.\n\nSinding-Larsen and Johansson syndrome, is an analogous condition involving the patellar tendon and the lower margin of the patella bone, instead of the upper margin of the tibia. Sever's disease is an analogous condition affecting the Achilles tendon attachment to the heel.\n\nOne of the main ways to prevent OSD is to check the participant's flexibility in their quadriceps and hamstrings. Lack of flexibility in these muscles can be direct risk indicator for OSD. Muscles can shorten, which can cause pain but this is not permanent. Stretches can help reduce shortening of the muscles. The main stretches for prevention of OSD focus on the hamstrings and quadriceps.\n\nTreatment is generally conservative with rest, ice, and specific exercises being recommended. Simple pain killers may be used if required such as acetaminophen (paracetamol) or ibuprofen. Typically symptoms resolve as the growth plate closes. Physiotherapy is generally recommended once the initial symptoms have improved to prevent recurrence. Surgery may rarely be used in those who have stopped growing yet still have symptoms.\n\nRecommended efforts include exercises to improve the strength of the quadriceps, hamstring and gastrocnemius muscles.\n\nBracing or use of an orthopedic cast to enforce joint immobilization is rarely required and does not necessarily encourage a quicker resolution. However, bracing may give comfort and help reduce pain as it reduces strain on the tibial tubercle.\n\nSurgical excision may rarely be required in skeletally mature patients. In chronic cases that are refractory to conservative treatment, surgical intervention yields good results, particularly for patients with bony or cartilaginous ossicles. Excision of these ossicles produces resolution of symptoms and return to activity in several weeks. After surgery, it is common for lack of blood flow to below the knees and to the feet. This may cause the loss of circulation to the area, but will be back to normal again shortly. A high pain may come and go every once in a while, due to the lack of blood flow. If this happens, sitting down will help the pain decrease. Removal of all loose intratendinous ossicles associated with prominent tibial tubercles is the procedure of choice, both from the functional and the cosmetic point of view.\n\nRehabilitation focuses on muscle strengthening, gait training, and pain control to restore knee function. Nonsurgical treatments for less severe symptoms include: exercises for strength, stretches to increase range of motion, ice packs, knee tape, knee braces, anti-inflammatory agents, and electrical stimulation to control inflammation and pain. Quadriceps and hamstring exercises prescribed by rehabilitation experts restore flexibility and muscle strength.\n\nEducation and knowledge on stretches and exercises is important. Exercises should lack pain and increase gradually with intensity. The patient is given strict guidelines on how to perform exercises at home to avoid more injury. Exercises can include leg raises, squats, and wall stretches to increase quadriceps and hamstring strength. This helps to avoid pain, stress, and tight muscles that lead to further injury that oppose healing. Knee orthotics such as patella straps and knee sleeves help decrease force traction and prevent painful tibia contact by restricting unnecessary movement, providing support, and also adding compression to the area of pain.\n\nThe condition is usually self-limiting and is caused by stress on the patellar tendon that attaches the quadriceps muscle at the front of the thigh to the tibial tuberosity. Following an adolescent growth spurt, repeated stress from contraction of the quadriceps is transmitted through the patellar tendon to the immature tibial tuberosity. This can cause multiple subacute avulsion fractures along with inflammation of the tendon, leading to excess bone growth in the tuberosity and producing a visible lump which can be very painful, especially when hit. Activities such as kneeling may also irritate the tendon.\n\nThe syndrome may develop without trauma or other apparent cause; however, some studies report up to 50% of patients relate a history of precipitating trauma. Several authors have tried to identify the actual underlying etiology and risk factors that predispose Osgood–Schlatter disease and postulated various theories. However, currently it is widely accepted that Osgood–Schlatter disease is a traction apophysitis of the proximal tibial tubercle at the insertion of the patellar tendon caused by repetitive micro-trauma. In other\nwords, Osgood–Schlatter disease is an overuse injury and closely related to the physical activity of the child. It was shown that children\nwho actively participate in sports are affected more frequently as compared with non-participants. In a retrospective study of adolescents, old athletes actively participating in sports showed a frequency of 21% reporting the syndrome compared with only 4.5% of age-matched nonathletic controls.\n\nThe symptoms usually resolve with treatment but may recur for 12–24 months before complete resolution at skeletal maturity, when the tibial epiphysis fuses. In some cases the symptoms do not resolve until the patient is fully grown. In approximately 10% of patients the symptoms continue unabated into adulthood, despite all conservative measures.\n\nOSD occurs from the combined effects of tibial tuberosity immaturity and quadriceps tightness. There is a possibility of migration of the ossicle or fragmentation in Osgood-Schlatter patients. The implications of OSD and the ossification of the tubercle can lead to functional limitations and pain for patients into adulthood.\n\nOf people admitted with OSD, about half were children who were between the ages of 1 and 17. In addition, in 2014, a case study of 261 patients was observed over 12 to 24 months. 237 of these people responded well to sport restriction and non-steroid anti-inflammatory agents, which resulted in recovery to normal athletic activity.\n\nOsgood–Schlatter disease generally occurs in boys and girls aged 9–16 coinciding with periods of growth spurts. It occurs more frequently in boys than in girls, with reports of a male-to-female ratio ranging from 3:1 to as high as 7:1. It has been suggested that difference is related to a greater participation by boys in sports and risk activities than by girls.\n"}
{"id": "14620966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14620966", "title": "Osteopathic medicine", "text": "Osteopathic medicine\n\nOsteopathic medicine is a branch of the medical profession practiced primarily in the United States, but has also spread to 65 other countries, with universities throughout Europe and Asia, and including Australia, New Zealand and Canada. The Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) degree in the United States is equivalent to the Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree and allows medical doctors to practice medicine and surgery in all 50 states. Outside the U.S., a degree in osteopathy is more similar to physical therapy, and exists as an allied health profession.\n\nThe practice of osteopathic medicine was founded as osteopathy by frontier physician Andrew Taylor Still as a partial rejection of the prevailing system of medical thought of the 19th century including its frequent use of caustic and/or toxic medicinal substances and dangerous surgeries. The profession maintained ties and gradually moved closer to mainstream medicine in its practices, and came to be called \"Osteopathic Medicine\". Today, the training of osteopathic physicians is distinct from that of their MD counterparts due to emphasis placed on a view of the patient as a whole person, with four key principles central to the care of all patients:\nOsteopathic physicians use all conventional methods of diagnosis and treatment but are trained to place additional emphasis on the achievement of normal body mechanics as central to maintaining good health. In the United States, osteopathic medicine is considered by some both a profession and a social movement. Osteopathic physicians educated in the United States should not be confused with non-physician osteopaths, whose training and practice are largely limited to manual therapeutic techniques. The practice has been referred to as the new \"jazz of medicine\", a term coined by Dr. Wolfgang Gilliar, an osteopathic physician who is the Dean of New York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine.\n\nOsteopathy in Canada usually refers to the practice of non-physician osteopaths, trained as allied health professionals similar to physical therapists and receiving a degree in osteopathy which specializes in the alignment of the musculoskeletal system.\n\nOsteopathic physicians trained in the U.S. are generally able to obtain a license to practice medicine throughout Canada, though licensure requirements for physicians varies by province. Such physicians are represented by the Canadian Osteopathic Association. \nOsteopathic physicians educated in the United States should not be confused with non-physician osteopaths. Osteopathic physicians are educated and trained in the United States and may practice in Canada as fully licensed physicians, as in a number of other countries outside of the United States. There are no colleges of Osteopathic Medicine in Canada. Only those graduates of American Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine are eligible for licensure to practice osteopathic medicine in Canada. The authority for licensure of American osteopathic graduates lies with the provincial Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons. The Canadian Osteopathic Association has been representing osteopathic physicians in Canada for more than 80 years and has enabled near uniform licensure across Canada for American osteopathic graduates.\n\n"}
{"id": "7646602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7646602", "title": "Outline of health", "text": "Outline of health\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to health:\n\nHealth – functional and metabolic efficiency of an organism. It is the ability to live long, function well (physically and mentally), and prosper.\n\n\nReproductive health\n\nIllness\n\n\nSelf-care\n\nHealth care\n\nHealth care industry\n\nPublic health\n\nHealth science\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "152487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152487", "title": "Paracelsus", "text": "Paracelsus\n\nParacelsus (; 1493/4 – 24 September 1541), born Theophrastus von Hohenheim (full name Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim), was a Swiss physician, alchemist, and astrologer of the German Renaissance.\n\nHe was a pioneer in several aspects of the \"medical revolution\" of the Renaissance, emphasizing the value of observation in combination with received wisdom. He is credited as the \"father of toxicology\".\n\nHe also had a substantial impact as a prophet or diviner, his \"Prognostications\" being studied by Rosicrucians in the 1700s. Paracelsianism is the early modern medical movement inspired by the study of his works.\n\nParacelsus was born in Egg, a village close to the Etzel Pass in Einsiedeln, Schwyz. He was born in a house right next to a bridge across the Sihl river (known as \"Teufelsbrücke\"). The historical house, dated to the 14th century, was destroyed in 1814. The \"Restaurant Krone\" now stands in its place. \nHis father Wilhelm (d. 1534) was a chemist and physician, an illegitimate descendant of the Swabian noble family Bombast von Hohenheim. It has been suggested that Paracelsus's descent from the Bombast of Hohenheim family was his own invention, and that his father was in fact called \"Höhener\" and was a native of Gais in Appenzell, \nbut it is plausible that Wilhelm was the illegitimate son of Georg Bombast von Hohenheim (1453–1499), commander of the Order of Saint John in Rohrdorf.\n\nParacelsus's mother was probably a native of the Einsiedeln region and a bondswoman of Einsiedeln Abbey, who before her marriage worked as superintendent in the abbey's hospital. \nParacelsus in his writings repeatedly made references to his rustic origins and occasionally used \"Eremita\" (from the name of Einsiedeln, meaning \"hermitage\") as part of his name.\n\nParacelsus' mother probably died in 1502, after which Paracelsus's father moved to Villach, Carinthia, where he worked as a physician, attending to the medical needs of the pilgrims and inhabitants of the cloister. Paracelsus was educated by his father in botany, medicine, mineralogy, mining, and natural philosophy. He also received a profound humanistic and theological education from local clerics and the convent school of St. Paul's Abbey in the Lavanttal. \nHe specifically accounts for being tutored by Johannes Trithemius, abbot of Sponheim. \nAt the age of 16 he started studying medicine at the University of Basel, later moving to Vienna. He gained his doctorate degree from the University of Ferrara in 1515 or 1516.\n\nBetween 1517 and 1524, he worked as a military surgeon, in Venetian service in 1522. In this capacity he travelled widely across Europe, and possibly as far as Constantinople.\n\nHe settled in Salzburg in 1524 but had to leave in the following year due to his support of the German Peasants' War. In 1525, he was active at the University of Freiburg.\n\nIn 1526, he bought the rights of citizenship in Strasbourg to establish his own practice. But soon after he was called to Basel to the sickbed of printer Johann Frobenius, reportedly curing him. During that time, the Dutch Renaissance humanist Erasmus von Rotterdam, also at the University of Basel, witnessed the medical skills of Paracelsus, and the two scholars initiated a letter dialogue on medical and theological subjects.\n\nIn 1527, Paracelsus was a licensed physician in Basel with the privilege of lecturing at the University of Basel. Basel at the time was a center of Renaissance humanism, and Paracelsus here came into contact with Erasmus of Rotterdam, Wolfgang Lachner, and Johannes Oekolampad.\nParacelsus's lectures at Basel university unusually were held in German, not Latin. He stated that he wanted his lectures to be available to everyone. He also published harsh criticism of the Basel physicians and apothecaries, creating political turmoil to the point of his life being threatened. In a display of his contempt for conventional medicine, Paracelsus publicly burned editions of the works of Galen and Avicenna. He was prone to many outbursts of abusive language, abhorred untested theory, and ridiculed anybody who placed more importance on titles than practice ('if disease put us to the test, all our splendor, title, ring, and name will be as much help as a horse's tail'). During his time as a professor at the University of Basel, he invited barber-surgeons, alchemists, apothecaries, and others lacking academic background to serve as examples of his belief that only those who practiced an art knew it: 'The patients are your textbook, the sickbed is your study.' Paracelsus was compared with Martin Luther because of his openly defiant acts against the existing authorities in medicine. Paracelsus rejected that comparison. \nFamously Paracelsus said, \"I leave it to Luther to defend what he says and I will be responsible for what I say. That which you wish to Luther, you wish also to me: You wish us both in the fire.\"\nBeing threatened with an unwinnable lawsuit, he left Basel for Alsace in February 1528.\n\nIn Alsace, Paracelsus took up the life of an itinerant physician once again. \nAfter staying in Colmar with , and briefly in Esslingen, he moved to Nuremberg in 1529. His reputation went before him, and the medical professionals excluded him from practicing.\n\nThe name \"Paracelsus\" is first attested in this year, used as a pseudonym for the publication of a \"Practica\" of political-astrological character in Nuremberg.\nPagel (1982) supposes that the name was intended for use as the author of non-medical works, while his real name \"Theophrastus von Hohenheim\" was used for medical publications. The first use of \"Doctor Paracelsus\" in a medical publication was in 1536, as the author of the \"Grosse Wundartznei\". The name is usually interpreted as either a latinization of \"Hohenheim\" (based on \"celsus\" \"high, tall\") or as the claim of \"surpassing Celsus\". It has been argued that the name was not the invention of Paracelsus himself, who would have been opposed to the humanistic fashion of Latinized names, but was given to him by his circle of friends in Colmar in 1528. It is difficult to interpret but does appear to express the \"paradoxical\" character of the man, the prefix \"para\" suggestively being echoed in the titles of Paracelsus's main philosophical works, \"Paragranum\" and \"Paramirum\" (as it were \"beyond the grain\" and \"beyond wonder\"); a \"paramiric\" treatise having been announced by Paracelsus as early as 1520.\n\nThe great medical problem of this period was syphilis, then-recently imported from the West Indies, and running rampant as a pandemic completely untreated. Paracelsus vigorously attacked the treatment with guaiac wood as useless, a scam perpetrated by the Fugger of Augsburg as the main importers of the wood in two publications on the topic.\nWhen his further stay in Nuremberg had become impossible, he retired to Beratzhausen, hoping to return to Nuremberg and publish an extended treatise on the \"French sickness\", but its publication was prohibited by a decree of the Leipzig faculty of medicine, represented by Heinrich Stromer, a close friend and associate of the Fugger family.\n\nIn Beratzhausen, Paracelsus prepared \"Paragranum\", his main work on medical philosophy, completed 1530. Moving on to St. Gall, he then completed his \"Opus Paramirum\" in 1531, which he dedicated to Joachim Vadian. From St. Gall, he moved on to the land of Appenzell, where he was active as lay preacher and healer among the peasantry.\nIn the same year, he also visited the mines in Schwaz and Hall in Tyrol, working on his book on miners' diseases.\nHe moved on to Innsbruck, where he was once again barred from practicing. He passed Sterzing in 1534, moving on to Meran, Veltlin, and St. Moritz, which he praised for its healing springs. In Meran, he also came in contact with the socio-religious programs of the anabaptists. He visited Pfäfers Abbey, dedicating a separate pamphlet to its baths (1535).\nHe passed Kempten, Memmingen, Ulm, and Augsburg in 1536. He finally managed to publish his \"Die grosse Wundartznei\" (\"The Great Surgery Book\"), printed in Ulm, Augsburg, and Frankfurt in this year.\n\nHis \"Astronomia magna\" (also known as \"Philosophia sagax\") was completed in 1537, but published only in 1571.\nIt is a treatise on hermeticism, astrology, divination, theology, and demonology, and it laid the basis of Paracelsus's later fame as a \"prophet\". His motto \"Alterius non sit qui suus esse potest\" (\"Let no man belong to another who can belong to himself\") is inscribed on a 1538 portrait by Augustin Hirschvogel.\n\nIn 1541, Paracelsus moved to Salzburg, probably on the invitation of Ernest of Bavaria, where he died on 24 September. He was buried in St Sebastian cemetery in Salzburg. His remains were relocated inside St Sebastian church in 1752.\n\nAfter his death, the movement of Paracelsianism was seized upon by many wishing to subvert the traditional Galenic physics, and his therapies became more widely known and used. \nHis autographs have been lost, but fortunately many of his works which remained unpublished during his lifetime were edited by Johannes Huser of Basel during 1589–1591. \nHis works were frequently reprinted and widely read during the late 16th to early 17th century, and although his \"occult\" reputation remained controversial, his medical contributions were universally recognized, with e.g. a 1618 \"pharmacopeia\" by the Royal College of Physicians in London including \"Paracelsian\" remedies.\n\nThe late 16th century also saw substantial production of Pseudo-Paracelsian writing, especially letters attributed to Paracelsus, to the point where biographers find it impossible to draw a clear line between genuine tradition and legend.\nAs a physician of the early 16th century, Paracelsus held a natural affinity with the Hermetic, Neoplatonic, and Pythagorean philosophies central to the Renaissance, a world-view exemplified by Marsilio Ficino and Pico della Mirandola. Astrology was a very important part of Paracelsus's medicine and he was a practicing astrologer – as were many of the university-trained physicians working at that time in Europe. Paracelsus devoted several sections in his writings to the construction of astrological talismans for curing disease. He also invented an alphabet called the Alphabet of the Magi, for engraving angelic names upon talismans. \nParacelsus largely rejected the philosophies of Aristotle and Galen, as well as the theory of humours. Although he did accept the concept of the four elements as water, air, fire, and earth, he saw them merely as a foundation for other properties on which to build.\n\nParacelsus was one of the first medical professors to recognize that physicians required a solid academic knowledge in the natural sciences, especially chemistry. Paracelsus pioneered the use of chemicals and minerals in medicine. From his study of the elements, Paracelsus adopted the idea of tripartite alternatives to explain the nature of medicine, taking the place of a combustible element (sulphur), a fluid and changeable element (mercury), and a solid, permanent element (salt). The first mention of the mercury-sulphur-salt model was in the \"Opus paramirum\" dating to about 1530. Paracelsus believed that the principles sulphur, mercury, and salt contained the poisons contributing to all diseases. He saw each disease as having three separate cures depending on how it was afflicted, either being caused by the poisoning of sulphur, mercury, or salt. Paracelsus drew the importance of sulphur, salt, and mercury from medieval alchemy, where they all occupied a prominent place. He demonstrated his theory by burning a piece of wood. The fire was the work of sulphur, the smoke was mercury, and the residual ash was salt. Paracelsus also believed that mercury, sulphur, and salt provided a good explanation for the nature of medicine because each of these properties existed in many physical forms. The \"tria prima\" also defined the human identity. Salt represented the body; mercury represented the spirit (imagination, moral judgment, and the higher mental faculties); sulphur represented the soul (the emotions and desires). By understanding the chemical nature of the \"tria prima\", a physician could discover the means of curing disease. With every disease, the symptoms depended on which of the three principals caused the ailment. Paracelsus theorized that materials which are poisonous in large doses may be curative in small doses; he demonstrated this with the examples of magnetism and static electricity, wherein a small magnet can attract much larger metals.\n\nHe was probably the first to give the element \"zinc\" (\"zincum\") its modern name, in about 1526, likely based on the sharp pointed appearance of its crystals after smelting (\"zinke\" translating to \"pointed\" in German). \nParacelsus invented chemical therapy, chemical urinalysis, and suggested a biochemical theory of digestion. Paracelsus used chemistry and chemical analogies in his teachings to medical students and to the medical establishment, many of whom found them objectionable.\n\nParacelsus in the beginning of the sixteenth century had unknowingly observed hydrogen as he noted that in reaction when acids attack metals, gas was a by-product. Later, Théodore de Mayerne repeated Paracelsus’s experiment in 1650 and found that the gas was flammable. However neither Paracelsus nor de Mayerne proposed that hydrogen could be a new element.\n\nHis hermetical beliefs were that sickness and health in the body relied upon the harmony of humans (microcosm) and nature (macrocosm). He took a different approach from those before him, using this analogy not in the manner of soul-purification but in the manner that humans must have certain balances of minerals in their bodies,and that certain illnesses of the body had chemical remedies that could cure them. As a result of this hermetical idea of harmony, the universe's macrocosm was represented in every person as a microcosm. An example of this correspondence is the doctrine of signatures used to identify curative powers of plants. If a plant looked like a part of the body, then this signified its ability to cure this given anatomy. Therefore, the root of the orchid looks like a testicle and can therefore heal any testicle-associated illness. Paracelsus mobilized the microcosm-macrocosm theory to demonstrate the analogy between the aspirations to salvation and health. As humans must ward off the influence of evil spirits with morality, they must also ward off diseases with good health.\n\nParacelsus believed that true anatomy could only be understood once the nourishment for each part of the body was discovered. He believed that one must therefore know the influence of the stars on these particular body parts. Diseases were caused by poisons brought from the stars. However, 'poisons' were not necessarily something negative, in part because related substances interacted, but also because only the dose determined if a substance was poisonous or not. Paracelsus claimed the complete opposite of Galen, in that like cures like. If a star or poison caused a disease, then it must be countered by another star or poison. Because everything in the universe was interrelated, beneficial medical substances could be found in herbs, minerals, and various chemical combinations thereof. Paracelsus viewed the universe as one coherent organism that is pervaded by a uniting lifegiving spirit, and this in its entirety, humans included, was 'God'. His beliefs put him at odds with the Catholic Church, for which there necessarily had to be a difference between the creator and the created.\n\nParacelsus also described four elemental beings, each corresponding to one of the four elements: Salamanders, which correspond to fire; Gnomes, corresponding to earth; Undines, corresponding to water; and Sylphs, corresponding to air.\n\nParacelsus is freqently credited with reintroducing opium to Western Europe during the German Renaissance. He extolled the benefits of opium, and of a pill he called laudanum, which has frequently been asserted by others to have been an opium tincture. Paracelsus did not leave a complete recipe, and the known ingredients differ considerably from 17th-century laudanum. \n\nParacelsus invented, or at least named a sort of liniment, opodeldoc, a mixture of soap in alcohol, to which camphor and sometimes a number of herbal essences, most notably wormwood, were added. Paracelsus's recipe forms the basis for most later versions of liniment.\n\nHis work \"Die große Wundarzney\" is a forerunner of antisepsis. This specific empirical knowledge originated from his personal experiences as an army physician in the Venetian wars. Paracelsus demanded that the application of cow dung, feathers and other noxious concoctions to wounds be surrendered in favor of keeping the wounds clean, stating, \"If you prevent infection, Nature will heal the wound all by herself.\" During his time as a military surgeon, Paracelsus was exposed to the crudity of medical knowledge at the time, when doctors believed that infection was a natural part of the healing process. He advocated for cleanliness and protection of wounds, as well as the regulation of diet. Popular ideas of the time opposed these theories and suggested sewing or plastering wounds. Historians of syphilitic disease credit Paracelsus with the recognition of the inherited character of syphilis. In his first medical publication, a short pamphlet on syphilis treatment that was also the most comprehensive clinical description the period ever produced, he wrote a clinical description of syphilis in which he maintained that it could be treated by carefully measured doses of mercury. Similarly, he was the first to discover that the disease could only be contracted by contact.\n\nHippocrates put forward the theory that illness was caused by an imbalance of the four humors: blood, phlegm, black bile and yellow bile. These ideas were further developed by Galen into an extremely influential and highly persistent set of medical beliefs that were to last until the mid-1850s. Contrarily, Paracelsus believed in three humors: salt (representing stability), sulphur (representing combustibility), and mercury (representing liquidity); he defined disease as a separation of one humor from the other two. He believed that body organs functioned alchemically, that is, they separated pure from impure. The dominant medical treatments in Paracelsus's time were specific diets to help in the \"cleansing of the putrefied juices\" combined with purging and bloodletting to restore the balance of the four humors. Paracelsus supplemented and challenged this view with his beliefs that illness was the result of the body being attacked by \"outside\" agents. He objected to excessive bloodletting, saying that the process disturbed the harmony of the system, and that blood could not be purified by lessening its quantity.\n\nParacelsus gave birth to clinical diagnosis and the administration of highly specific medicines. This was uncommon for a period heavily exposed to cure-all remedies. The Germ Theory was anticipated by him as he proposed that diseases were entities in themselves, rather than states of being. Paracelsus first introduced the black hellebore to European pharmacology and prescribed the correct dosage to alleviate certain forms of arteriosclerosis. Lastly, he recommended the use of iron for \"poor blood\" and is credited with the creation of the terms \"chemistry,\" \"gas,\" and \"alcohol\".\n\nDuring Paracelsus's lifetime and after his death, he was often celebrated as a wonder healer and investigator of those folk medicines that were rejected by the fathers of medicine (e.g. Galen, Avicenna). It was believed that he had success with his own remedies curing the plague, according to those that revered him. Since effective medicines for serious infectious diseases weren't invented before the 19th century, Paracelsus came up with many prescriptions and concoctions on his own. For infectious diseases with fever, it was common to prescribe diaphoretics and tonics that at least gave temporary relief. Also many of his remedies contained the famed \"theriac\", a preparation derived from oriental medicine sometimes containing opium. The following prescription by Paracelsus was dedicated to the village of Sterzing.\nOne of his most overlooked achievements was the systematic study of minerals and the curative powers of alpine mineral springs. His countless wanderings also brought him deep into many areas of the Alps, where such therapies were already practiced on a less common scale than today. Paracelsus's major work \"On the Miners' Sickness and Other Diseases of Miners\" documented the occupational hazards of metalworking including treatment and prevention strategies.\n\nParacelsus extended his interest in chemistry and biology to what is now considered toxicology. He clearly expounded the concept of dose response in his \"Third Defense\", where he stated that \"Solely the dose determines that a thing is not a poison.\" (\"Sola dosis facit venenum\" \"Only the dose makes the poison\")\nThis was used to defend his use of inorganic substances in medicine as outsiders frequently criticized Paracelsus's chemical agents as too toxic to be used as therapeutic agents.\nHis belief that diseases locate in a specific organ was extended to inclusion of target organ toxicity; that is, there is a specific site in the body where a chemical will exert its greatest effect. Paracelsus also encouraged using experimental animals to study both beneficial and toxic chemical effects.\n\nIn his work \"Von den Krankeiten\" Paracelsus writes: \"Thus, the cause of the disease chorea lasciva is a mere opinion and idea, assumed by imagination, affecting those who believe in such a thing. This opinion and idea are the origin of the disease both in children and adults. \nIn children the case is also imagination, based not on thinking but on perceiving, because they have heard or seen something. The reason is this: their sight and hearing are so strong that unconsciously they have fantasies about what they have seen or heard.\" Paracelsus called for the humane treatment of the mentally ill as he saw them not to be possessed by evil spirits, but merely 'brothers' ensnared in a treatable malady.\"\n\nThe oldest surviving portrait Paracelsus is a woodcut by Augustin Hirschvogel, published in 1538, still during Paracelsus's lifetime.\nA still older painting by Quentin Matsys has been lost, but at least three 17th-century copies survive, one by an anonymous Flemish artist, kept in the Louvre, one by Peter Paul Rubens, kept in Brussels, and one by a student of Rubens, now kept in Uppsala.\nAnother portrait by Hirschvogel, dated 1540, claims to show Paracelsus \"at the age of 47\" (\"sue aetatis 47\"), i.e. less than a year before his death.\nIn this portrait, Paracelsus is shown as holding his sword, gripping the spherical pommel with the right hand. Above and below the image are the mottos \n\"Alterius non sit qui suus esse potest\" (\"Let no man belong to another who can belong to himself\") and \"Omne donum perfectum a Deo, inperfectum a Diabolo\" (\"All perfect gifts are from God, [all] imperfect [ones] from the Devil\"); later portraits give a German rendition in two rhyming couplets (\"Eines andern Knecht soll Niemand sein / der für sich bleiben kann allein /all gute Gaben sint von Got / des Teufels aber sein Spot\").\nPosthumous portraits of Paracelsus, made for publications of his books during the second half of the 16th century, often show him in the same pose, holding his sword by its pommel.\n\nThe so-called \"Rosicrucian portrait\", published with \" Philosophiae magnae Paracelsi\" (Heirs of Arnold Birckmann, Cologne, 1567), is closely based on the 1540 portrait by Hirschvogel (but mirrored, so that now Paracelsus's left hand rests on the sword pommel), adding a variety of additional elements: the pommel of the sword is inscribed by \"Azoth\", and next to the figure of Paracelsus, the Bombast von Hohenheim arms are shown (with an additional border of eight crosses patty).\nShown in the background are \"early Rosicrucian symbols\", including the head of a child protruding from the ground (indicating rebirth). The portrait is possibly a work by Frans Hogenberg, acting under the directions of Theodor Birckmann (1531/33–1586).\n\nParacelsus was especially venerated by German Rosicrucians, who regarded him as a prophet, and developed a field of systematic study of his writings, which is sometimes called \"Paracelsianism\", or more rarely \"Paracelsism\". Francis Bacon warned against Paracelsus and the Rosicrucians, judging that \"the ancient opinion that man was \"microcosmus\"\" had been \"fantastically strained by Paracelsus and the alchemists\".\n\n\"Paracelsism\" also produced the first complete edition of Paracelsus's works. Johannes Huser of Basel (c. 1545–1604) gathered autographs and manuscript copies, and prepared an edition in ten volumes during 1589–1591.\n\nThe prophecies contained in Paracelsus's works on astrology and divination began to be separately edited as \"Prognosticon Theophrasti Paracelsi\" in the early 17th century. His prediction of a \"great calamity just beginning\" indicating the End Times was later associated with the Thirty Years' War, and the identification of Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden as the \"Lion from the North\" is based in one of Paracelsus's \"prognostications\" referencing Jeremiah 5:6.\n\nCarl Gustav Jung studied Paracelsus intensively. His work \"Mysterium Conjunctionis\" further drew from alchemical symbolism as a tool in psychotherapy. Following Paracelsus's path, it was Jung who first theorised that the symbolic language of alchemy was an expression of innate but unconscious psychological processes.\n\nA number of fictionalised depictions of Paracelsus have been published in modern literature. The first presentation of Paracelsus's life in the form of a historical novel was published in 1830 by Dioclès Fabre d'Olivet (1811–1848, son of Antoine Fabre d'Olivet), Robert Browning wrote a long poem based on the life of Paracelsus, entitled \"Paracelsus\", published 1835. Meinrad Lienert in 1915 published a tale (which he attributed to Gall Morel) about Paracelsus's sword. \n\nArthur Schnitzler wrote a verse play \"Paracelsus\" in 1899. Erwin Guido Kolbenheyer wrote a novel trilogy (\"Paracelsus-Trilogie\"), published during 1917–26. Martha Sills-Fuchs (1896–1987) wrote three \"völkisch\" plays with Paracelsus as the main character during 1936–1939 in which Paracelsus is depicted as the prophetic healer of the German people. \nThe German drama film \"Paracelsus\" was made in 1943, directed by Georg Wilhelm Pabst. Also in 1943, Richard Billinger wrote a play \"Paracelsus\" for the Salzburg Festival.\n\nMika Waltari's \"Mikael Karvajalka\" (1948) has a scene fictionalising Paracelsus's acquisition of his legendary executioner's sword. Paracelsus is the main character of Jorge Luis Borges's short story \"La rosa de Paracelso\" (anthologized in \"Shakespeare's Memory\", 1983). An alchemist based on him named Van Hohenheim is one of the main characters of the manga \"Fullmetal Alchemist\". The Rose of Paracelsus: On Secrets and Sacraments, borrowing from Jorge Luis Borges, is also a novel by William Leonard Pickard.\n\nBecause of the work of Karl Widemann, who copied over 30 years the work of Paracelsus, many unpublished works survived.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34463932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34463932", "title": "Peto's paradox", "text": "Peto's paradox\n\nPeto's paradox is the observation, named after Richard Peto, that at the species level, the incidence of cancer does not appear to correlate with the number of cells in an organism. For example, the incidence of cancer in humans is much higher than the incidence of cancer in whales. This is despite the fact that a whale has many more cells than a human. If the probability of carcinogenesis were constant across cells, one would expect whales to have a higher incidence of cancer than humans.\n\nPeto, a statistical epidemiologist at the University of Oxford, first formulated the paradox in 1977. Writing an overview of the multistage model of cancer, Peto noted that, on a cell-for-cell basis, humans were much less susceptible to cancer than mice:\n\nPeto went on to suggest that evolutionary considerations were likely responsible for varying per-cell carcinogenesis rates across species.\n\nWithin members of the same species, cancer risk and body size appear to be positively correlated, even once other risk factors are controlled for. A 25-year longitudinal study of 17,738 male British civil servants, published in 1998, showed a positive correlation between height and cancer incidence with a high degree of statistical confidence, even after risk factors like smoking were controlled for. A similar 2011 study of more than one million British women found strong statistical evidence of a relationship between cancer and height, even after controlling for a number of socioeconomic and behavioral risk factors. A 2011 analysis of the causes of death of 74,556 domesticated North American dogs found that cancer incidence was lowest in the smaller breeds, confirming the results of earlier studies.\n\nAcross species, however, the relationship breaks down. A 2015 study, using data from necropsies performed by the San Diego Zoo, surveyed results from 36 different mammalian species, ranging in size from the 51-gram striped grass mouse to the 4,800-kilogram elephant, nearly 100,000 times larger. The study found no relationship between body size and cancer incidence, offering empirical support for Peto's initial observation.\n\nThe evolution of multicellularity has required the suppression of cancer to some extent, and connections have been found between the origins of multicellularity and cancer. In order to build larger and longer-lived bodies, organisms required greater cancer suppression. Evidence suggests that large organisms such as elephants have more adaptations that allow them to evade cancer. The reason that intermediate-sized organisms have relatively few of these genes may be because the advantage of preventing cancer these genes conferred was, for moderately-sized organisms, outweighed by their disadvantages—particularly reduced fertility.\n\nVarious species have evolved different mechanisms for suppressing cancer. A paper in \"Cell Reports\" in January 2015 claimed to have found genes in the bowhead whale (\"Balaena mysticetus\") that may be associated with longevity. Around the same time, a second team of researchers identified a polysaccharide in the naked mole-rat that appeared to block the development of tumors. In October 2015, two independent studies showed that elephants have 20 copies of tumor suppressor gene TP53 in their genome, where humans and other mammals have only one. Additional research showed 14 copies of the gene present in the DNA of preserved mammoths, but only one copy of the gene in the DNA of manatees and hyraxes, the elephant's closest living relatives. The results suggest an evolutionary relationship between animal size and tumor suppression, as Peto had theorized.\n\nA 2014 paper in \"Evolutionary Applications\" by Maciak and Michalak emphasized what they termed \"a largely underappreciated relation of cell size to both metabolism and cell-division rates across species\" as key factors underlying the paradox, and concluded that \"larger organisms have bigger and slowly dividing cells with lower energy turnover, all significantly reducing the risk of cancer initiation.\"\n\nMaciak and Michalak argue that cell size is not uniform across mammalian species, making body size an imperfect proxy for the number of cells in an organism. (For example, the volume of an individual red blood cell of an elephant is roughly four times that of one from a common shrew.) Furthermore, larger cells divide more slowly than smaller ones, a difference which compounds exponentially over the life-span of the organism. Fewer cell divisions means fewer opportunities for cancer mutations, and mathematical models of cancer incidence are highly sensitive to cell-division rates. Additionally, larger animals generally have lower basal metabolic rates, following a well-defined inverse logarithmic relationship. Consequently, their cells will incur less damage over time per unit of body mass. Combined, these factors may explain much of the apparent paradox.\n\nThe apparent ability of bigger animals to suppress cancer across very large numbers of cells has spurred an active field of medical research. In one experiment, laboratory mice were genetically altered to express active TP53 tumor antigens, similar to the ones found in elephants. The mutated mice exhibited increased tumor suppression ability, but also showed signs of premature aging.\n\n"}
{"id": "287207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287207", "title": "Plasmodium", "text": "Plasmodium\n\nPlasmodium is a genus of unicellular eukaryotes that are obligate parasites of vertebrates and insects. The life cycles of \"Plasmodium\" species involve development in a blood-feeding insect host which then injects parasites into a vertebrate host during a blood meal. Parasites grow within a vertebrate body tissue (often the liver) before entering the bloodstream to infect red blood cells. The ensuing destruction of host red blood cells can result in disease, called malaria. During this infection, some parasites are picked up by a blood-feeding insect, continuing the life cycle.\n\n\"Plasmodium\" is a member of the phylum Apicomplexa, a large group of parasitic eukaryotes. Within Apicomplexa, \"Plasmodium\" is in the order Haemosporida and family Plasmodiidae. Over 200 species of \"Plasmodium\" have been described, many of which have been subdivided into 14 subgenera based on parasite morphology and host range. Evolutionary relationships among different \"Plasmodium\" species do not always follow taxonomic boundaries; some species that are morphologically similar or infect the same host turn out to be distantly related.\n\nSpecies of \"Plasmodium\" are distributed globally wherever suitable hosts are found. Insect hosts are most frequently mosquitoes of the genera \"Culex\" and \"Anopheles\". Vertebrate hosts include reptiles, birds, and mammals. \"Plasmodium\" parasites were first identified in the late 19th century by Charles Laveran. Over the course of the 20th century, many other species were discovered in various hosts and classified, including five species that regularly infect humans: \"P. vivax\", \"P. falciparum\", \"P. malariae\", \"P. ovale\", and \"P. knowlesi\". \"P. falciparum\" is by far the most lethal in humans, resulting in hundreds of thousands of deaths per year. A number of drugs have been developed to treat \"Plasmodium\" infection; however, the parasites have evolved resistance to each drug developed.\n\nThe genus \"Plasmodium\" consists of all eukaryotes in the phylum Apicomplexa that both undergo the asexual replication process of merogony inside host red blood cells and produce the crystalline pigment hemozoin as a byproduct of digesting host hemoglobin. \"Plasmodium\" species contain many features that are common to other eukaryotes, and some that are unique to their phylum or genus. The \"Plasmodium\" genome is separated into 14 chromosomes contained in the nucleus. \"Plasmodium\" parasites maintain a single copy of their genome through much of the life cycle, doubling the genome only for a brief sexual exchange within the midgut of the insect host. Attached to the nucleus is the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), which functions similarly to the ER in other eukaryotes. Proteins are trafficked from the ER to the Golgi apparatus which generally consists of a single membrane-bound compartment in Apicomplexans. From here proteins are trafficked to various cellular compartments or to the cell surface.\n\nLike other apicomplexans, \"Plasmodium\" species have several cellular structures at the apical end of the parasite that serve as specialized organelles for secreting effectors into the host. The most prominent are the bulbous rhoptries which contain parasite proteins involved in invading the host cell and modifying the host once inside. Adjacent to the rhoptries are smaller structures termed micronemes that contain parasite proteins required for motility as well as recognizing and attaching to host cells. Spread throughout the parasite are secretory vesicles called dense granules that contain parasite proteins involved in modifying the membrane that separates the parasite from the host, termed the parasitophorous vacuole.\n\nSpecies of \"Plasmodium\" also contain two large membrane-bound organelles of endosymbiotic origin, the mitochondrion and the apicoplast, both of which play key roles in the parasite's metabolism. Unlike mammalian cells which contain many mitochondria, \"Plasmodium\" cells contain a single large mitochondrion that coordinates its division with that of the \"Plasmodium\" cell. Like in other eukaryotes, the \"Plasmodium\" mitochondrion is capable of generating energy in the form of ATP via the citric acid cycle; however, this function is only required for parasite survival in the insect host, and is not needed for growth in red blood cells. A second organelle, the apicoplast, is derived from a secondary endosymbiosis event, in this case the acquisition of a red algae by the \"Plasmodium\" ancestor. The apicoplast is involved in the synthesis of various metabolic precursors, including fatty acids, isoprenoids, iron-sulphur clusters, and components of the heme biosynthesis pathway.\n\nThe life cycle of \"Plasmodium\" involves several distinct stages in the insect and vertebrate hosts. Parasites are generally introduced into a vertebrate host by the bite of an insect host (generally a mosquito, with the exception of some \"Plasmodium\" species of reptiles). Parasites first infect the liver or other tissue, where they undergo a single large round of replication before exiting the host cell to infect erythrocytes. At this point, some species of \"Plasmodium\" of primates can form a long-lived dormant stage called a hypnozoite. It can remain in the liver for more than a year. However, for most \"Plasmodium\" species, the parasites in infected liver cells are only what are called merozoites. After emerging from the liver, they enter red blood cells, as explained above. They then go through continuous cycles of erythrocyte infection, while a small percentage of parasites differentiate into a sexual stage called a gametocyte which is picked up by an insect host taking a blood meal. In some hosts, invasion of erythrocytes by \"Plasmodium\" species can result in disease, called malaria. This can sometimes be severe, rapidly followed by death of the host (e.g. \"P. falciparum\" in humans). In other hosts, \"Plasmodium\" infection can apparently be asymptomatic. \n\nWithin the red blood cells, the merozoites grow first to a ring-shaped form and then to a larger form called a trophozoite. Trophozoites then mature to schizonts which divide several times to produce new merozoites. The infected red blood cell eventually bursts, allowing the new merozoites to travel within the bloodstream to infect new red blood cells. Most merozoites continue this replicative cycle, however some merozoites upon infecting red blood cells differentiate into male or female sexual forms called gametocytes. These gametocytes circulate in the blood until they are taken up when a mosquito feeds on the infected vertebrate host, taking up blood which includes the gametocytes.\n\nIn the mosquito, the gametocytes move along with the blood meal to the mosquito's midgut. Here the gametocytes develop into male and female gametes which fertilize each other, forming a zygote. Zygotes then develop into a motile form called an ookinete, which penetrates the wall of the midgut. Upon traversing the midgut wall, the ookinete embeds into the gut's exterior membrane and develops into an oocyst. Oocysts divide many times to produce large numbers of small elongated sporozoites. These sporozoites migrate to the salivary glands of the mosquito where they can be injected into the blood of the next host the mosquito bites, repeating the cycle.\n\n\"Plasmodium\" belongs to the phylum Apicomplexa, a taxonomic group of single-celled parasites with characteristic secretory organelles at one end of the cell. Within Apicomplexa, \"Plasmodium\" is within the order Haemosporida, a group that includes all apicomplexans that live within blood cells. Based on the presence of the pigment hemozoin and the method of asexual reproduction, the order is further split into four families, of which \"Plasmodium\" is in the family Plasmodiidae.\n\nThe genus \"Plasmodium\" consists of over 200 species, generally described on the basis of their appearance in blood smears of infected vertebrates. These speces have been categorized on the basis of their morphology and host range into 14 subgenera:\n\n\nSpecies infecting monkeys and apes (the higher primates) with the exceptions of \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. reichenowi\" (which together make up the subgenus \"Laverania\") are classified in the subgenus \"Plasmodium\". Parasites infecting other mammals including lower primates (lemurs and others) are classified in the subgenus \"Vinckeia\". The five subgenera \"Bennettinia\", \"Giovannolaia\", \"Haemamoeba\", \"Huffia\", and \"Novyella\" contain the known avian malarial species. The remaining subgenera: \"Asiamoeba\", \"Carinamoeba\", \"Lacertamoeba\", \"Ophidiella\", \"Paraplasmodium\", and \"Sauramoeba\" contain the diverse groups of parasites found to infect reptiles.\n\nMore recent studies of \"Plasmodium\" species using molecular methods have implied that the group's evolution has not perfectly followed taxonomy. Many \"Plasmodium\" species that are morphologically similar or infect the same hosts turn out to be only distantly related. In the 1990s, several studies sought to evaluate evolutionary relationships of \"Plasmodium\" species by comparing ribosomal RNA and a surface protein gene from various species, finding the human parasite \"P. falciparum\" to be more closely related to avian parasites than to other parasites of primates. However, later studies sampling more \"Plasmodium\" species found the parasites of mammals to form a clade along with the genus \"Hepatocystis\", while the parasites of birds or lizards appear to form a separate clade with evolutionary relationships not following the subgenera:\n\nEstimates for when different \"Plasmodium\" lineages diverged have differed broadly. Estimates for the diversification of the order Haemosporida range from around 16.2 million to 100 million years ago. There has been particular interest in dating the divergence of the human parasite \"P. falciparum\" from other \"Plasmodium\" lineages due to its medical importance. For this, estimated dates range from 110,000 to 2.5 million years ago.\n\nAll \"Plasmodium\" species are parasitic and must pass between a vertebrate host and an insect host to complete their life cycles. Different species of \"Plasmodium\" display different host ranges, with some species restricted to a single vertebrate and insect host, while other species can infect several species of vertebrates and/or insects.\n\n\"Plasmodium\" parasites have been described in a broad array of vertebrate hosts including reptiles, birds, and mammals. While many species can infect more than one vertebrate host, they are generally specific to one of these classes (such as birds). \n\nHumans are primarily infected by five species of \"Plasmodium\", with the overwhelming majority of severe disease and death caused by \"Plasmodium falciparum\". Some species that infect humans can also infect other primates, and zoonoses of certain species (e.g. \"P. knowlesi\") from other primates to humans are common. Non-human primates also contain a variety of \"Plasmodium\" species that do not generally infect humans. Some of these can cause severe disease in primates, while others can remain in the host for prolonged periods without causing disease. Many other mammals also carry \"Plasmodium\" species, such as a variety of rodents, ungulates, and bats. Again, some species of \"Plasmodium\" can cause severe disease in some of these hosts, while many appear not to.\n\nOver 150 species of \"Plasmodium\" infect a broad variety of birds. In general each species of \"Plasmodium\" infects one to a few species of birds. \"Plasmodium\" parasites that infect birds tend to persist in a given host for years or for the life time of the host, although in some cases \"Plasmodium\" infections can result in severe illness and rapid death. Unlike with \"Plasmodium\" species infecting mammals, those infecting birds are distributed across the globe.\n\nSpecies from several subgenera of \"Plasmodium\" infect diverse reptiles. \"Plasmodium\" parasites have been described in most lizard families and, like avian parasites, are spread worldwide. Again, parasites can result either in severe disease or be apparently asymptomatic depending on the parasite and the host.\n\nA number of drugs have been developed over the years to control \"Plasmodium\" infection in vertebrate hosts, particularly in humans. Quinine was used as a frontline antimalarial from the 17th century until widespread resistance emerged in the early 20th century. Resistance to quinine spurred the development of a broad array of antimalarial medications through the 20th century including chloroquine, proguanil, atovaquone, sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine, mefloquine, and artemisinin. In all cases, parasites resistant to a given drug have emerged within a few decades of the drugs deployment. To combat this, antimalarial drugs are frequently used in combination, with artemisinin combination therapies currently the gold standard for treatment. In general, antimalarial drugs target the life stages of \"Plasmodium\" parasites that reside within vertebrate red blood cells, as these are the stages that tend to cause disease. However, drugs targeting other stages of the parasite life cycle are under development in order to prevent infection in travelers and to prevent transmission of sexual stages to insect hosts.\n\nIn addition to a vertebrate host, all \"Plasmodium\" species also infect a bloodsucking insect host, generally a mosquito (although some reptile-infecting parasites are transmitted by sandflies). Mosquitoes of the genera \"Culex\", \"Anopheles\", \"Culiseta\", \"Mansonia\" and \"Aedes\" act as insect hosts for various \"Plasmodium\" species. The best studied of these are the \"Anopheles\" mosquitoes which host the \"Plasmodium\" parasites of human malaria, as well as \"Culex\" mosquitoes which host the \"Plasmodium\" species that cause malaria in birds. Only female mosquitoes are infected with \"Plasmodium\", since only they feed on the blood of vertebrate hosts. Different species affect their insect hosts differently. Sometimes, insects infected with \"Plasmodium\" have reduced lifespan and reduced ability to produce offspring. Further, some species of \"Plasmodium\" appear to cause insects to prefer to bite infected vertebrate hosts over non-infected hosts.\n\n\"Plasmodium\" was first identified when Charles Louis Alphonse Laveran described parasites in the blood of malaria patients in 1880. He named the parasite \"Oscillaria malariae\". In 1885, zoologists Ettore Marchiafava and Angelo Celli reexamined the parasite and termed it a member of a new genus, \"Plasmodium\", named for the resemblance to the multinucleate cells of slime molds of the same name. The fact that several species may be involved in causing different forms of malaria was first recognized by Camillo Golgi in 1886. Soon thereafter, Giovanni Batista Grassi and Raimondo Filetti named the parasites causing two different types of human malaria \"Plasmodium vivax\" and \"Plasmodium malariae\". In 1897, William Welch identified and named \"Plasmodium falciparum\". This was followed by the recognition of the other two species of \"Plasmodium\" which infect humans: \"Plasmodium ovale\" (1922) and \"Plasmodium knowlesi\" (identified in long-tailed macaques in 1931; in humans in 1965). The contribution of insect hosts to the \"Plasmodium\" life cycle was described in 1897 by Ronald Ross and in 1899 by Giovanni Batista Grassi, Amico Bignami and Giuseppe Bastianelli.\n\nIn 1966, Cyril Garnham proposed separating \"Plasmodium\" into nine subgenera based on host specificity and parasite morphology. This included four subgenera that had previously been proposed for bird-infecting \"Plasmodium\" species by A. Corradetti in 1963. This scheme was expanded upon by Sam R. Telford in 1988 when he reclassified \"Plasmodium\" parasites that infect reptiles, adding five subgenera. In 1997, G. Valkiunas reclassified the bird-infecting \"Plasmodium\" species adding a fifth subgenus: \"Bennettinia\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "799605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=799605", "title": "RSPB Minsmere", "text": "RSPB Minsmere\n\nRSPB Minsmere is a nature reserve owned and managed by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) at Minsmere, Suffolk. The site has been managed by the RSPB since 1947 and covers areas of reed bed, lowland heath, acid grassland, wet grassland, woodland and shingle vegetation. It lies within the Suffolk Coast and Heaths Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) and the Suffolk Heritage Coast area. It is conserved as a Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI), Special Area of Conservation (SAC), Special Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar site.\n\nThe nature reserve is managed primarily for bird conservation, particularly through control and improvement of wetland, heath and grassland habitats, with particular emphasis on encouraging nationally uncommon breeding species such as the bittern, stone-curlew, marsh harrier, nightjar and nightingale. The diversity of habitats has also led to a wide variety of other animals and plants being recorded on the site.\n\nBefore becoming a nature reserve, the area was the site of an ancient abbey and a Tudor artillery battery. The marshes were reclaimed as farmland in the 19th century, but re-flooded during World War II as a protection against possible invasion.\n\nThe reserve has a visitor centre, eight bird hides and an extensive network of footpaths and trails. Entry is free for RSPB members. Potential future threats to the site include flooding or salination as climate change causes rising sea levels, coastal erosion and possible effects on water levels due to the construction of a new reactor at the neighbouring Sizewell nuclear power stations.\n\nThe area around Minsmere consists of the wide valley of the Minsmere River with Dunwich cliffs to the north and Sizewell cliffs to the south. Two extensive sandbanks lie off the coast, and the beach is sand overlain with shingle. The cliffs have a maximum height of about and are amongst the most rapidly eroding in the UK, at an annual rate of .\n\nFrom 500 BC to 700 AD, the sea level in Suffolk was about higher than it is today, and the low-lying areas of the present coast were then tidal estuaries. The river mouth was finally closed in the 18th century as sand and shingle deposits formed off the coast. The higher land consists of a deep layer of gravel and sand, the legacy of the beach formed by the sea before it retreated. The geology of the wetland areas below the topsoil is marine clay with darker freshwater deposits from the Minsmere River.\n\nIn the Domesday Survey in 1086 Minsmere was known as \"Menesmara\" or \"Milsemere\". It is recorded as having six households headed by freemen with one plough team. The manor, which was in the Hundred of Blythling, was held by Roger Bigot.\n\nRanulf de Glanvill, King Henry II's Lord Chief Justice, founded a Premonstratensian abbey on the marshes at Minsmere in 1182. The area was embanked to protect the abbey from the sea and to reclaim farmland, but still suffered several years of severe flooding in the 14th century. The site was abandoned in 1363, and the stone from the buildings was used to rebuild Leiston Abbey at a new location further inland. The remains of the abbey church, fish pond and other buildings can still be detected below ground, but the only visible structure is the ruined chapel of St Mary, built within the nave of the former church. The lower section of the chapel was built soon after the demolition of the abbey in 1363, and the brick upper parts are thought to have been added by former abbot John Green, who lived there as a hermit when he retired from his post in 1527. The site was abandoned in 1537 during the Dissolution of the Monasteries, the only further construction being a pillbox that was built inside the chapel during World War II. The ruins are a scheduled monument of national importance.\n\nPeat cutting took place at Minsmere from at least the 12th century, and a 1237 description of the coastline describes Minsmere as a port. In a survey of 1587, an early Tudor period artillery battery, constructed sometime after 1539 at Minsmere, was in ruins; the survey recommended that it be rebuilt. A coastguard station operated at Minsmere in the 1840s in an attempt to control smuggling along this stretch of the coast.\n\nIn about 1780 a sandbank closed the mouth of the Minsmere River, creating a large freshwater wetland on its inland side. The reeds that grew there were cut for thatching, and access was improved by using sand from the higher alluvial areas to build tracks across the marshes. These marshes were enclosed and drained for agricultural use in 1812 and 1813, following the passing of the relevant Act in 1810, with the main sluice being built to control drainage to the sea. The New Cut, a canal south of the river, was built as part of the drainage works, joining the river again at the sea sluice. The canal was used to transport the thatch crop inland by barge, its bridges being built particularly high to enable the bulky cargo to pass beneath. The drainage was improved after 1846 using steam-powered pumps.\n\nThe levels were re-flooded during World War II to defend against invasion along the East Anglian coast. Military defences were built at Minsmere and neighbouring Dunwich, including pillboxes, anti-aircraft defences, anti-tank blocks and barbed wire defence lines. The Army also used much of the heathland for military manoeuvres, including preparations for the invasion of continental Europe.\n\nBefore the war, the Ogilvie family had owned and managed the area as farmland and as a shooting estate, planting many deciduous trees as part of their hunting management plan. After the war, they decided to leave the marshes undrained, realising their ornithological value.\n\nThe RSPB had been considering the Minsmere site, at that time about in extent, as a potential reserve from the late 1930s, and a management agreement was signed in 1947. The appointment of Bert Axell as warden in 1959 led to major changes in reserve management, which were in due course also adopted elsewhere. He realised that ecological succession would eventually lead to the loss of important habitats, such as bare ground on the heaths or open water in the reed beds, unless natural plant colonisation was actively prevented. He created the \"scrape\", an area with shallow water, islands and bare mud, by lowering land levels and managing the water level with new sluices. A circular path led around the scrape, giving access to hides on each of the four sides. In 1977, two years after Axell's retirement, the RSPB purchased the reserve outright.\n\nThe Great Storm of 1987 destroyed 3,000 trees in one night. Many areas were reforested, but it was noticed that other badly affected woodlands nearby were colonised by woodlarks, so some recently acquired arable land was acidified and converted to heathland to encourage open-ground species.\n\nMinsmere is one of a small number of UK sites at which bitterns breed. In 1979, nine booming males were counted but the population at Minsmere has varied over time, reaching a low of only one booming male in 1991. During the 1990s the existing reed beds were managed specifically for bitterns; when grazing marshes known as the North and South Levels were purchased, the North Levels were converted to reed bed and the South Levels to wet grassland.\n\nThe Minsmere reserve covers about of reed bed, open water, lowland heath, grassland, scrub, woodland, dune and shingle vegetation. The nature reserve, its habitats and wildlife, are protected under UK law as a part of the Minsmere–Walberswick Special Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar Site. The reserve is protected as part of the Minsmere to Walberswick Heaths and Marshes Special Area of Conservation (SAC) and Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI). The site is also included in the areas covered by the Suffolk Coast and Heaths Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) and the Suffolk Heritage Coast.\n\nThe reserve is accessible by car from the A12 via the village of Westleton. It is also connected to Route 1 of the Sustrans National Cycle Network by the Suffolk Coast Cycle route. The nearest bus access is in the town of Leiston away and rail access is in Darsham distant. Coastlink, a demand responsive bus service, is available from these places to travel to the reserve but requires booking a day in advance. RSPB Minsmere is accessible on foot from Dunwich Heath, Sizewell Beach and Eastbridge, and there are of public rights of way around the reserve. Two long-distance walks, the Suffolk Coast Path and the Sandlings Walk, also connect to Minsmere.\n\nThe reserve was originally conceived as a protected site for rare breeding birds, and before 1980 permits were needed to visit. Only since 2005 has Minsmere opened every day of the week. The visitor centre was built in 1996 and expanded in 2012 using National Lottery and European Union funding. Visitor access to the various habitats has also been improved. Entry to the reserve is free for RSPB members, although a fee is charged for non-members. The site is open daily from dawn to dusk, year-round. The visitor centre and facilities are open from 9 am to 5 pm with some seasonal variations. The visitor centre provides a café, picnic area, shop, toilets and baby-changing facilities; guided walks, binocular hire and children's 'explorer packs' are also available. Only assistance dogs are allowed within the reserve; all other dogs must be kept within the car park or visitor centre, or on the public rights of way that surround the site.\n\nThe reserve was featured in the BBC \"Birdwatch\" live TV broadcasts in 1980, 1981 and 1989, and on \"Springwatch\" from 2014 to 2016.\n\nThe main management objectives at Minsmere are to maintain and improve the wetland, heath and grassland habitats. Water levels are managed using a system of sluices, surplus water eventually flowing into the sea at the main sluice on the New Cut. The sluices also keep seawater out of the reed beds, allowing control of salinity in the scrape. Vegetation is removed from the lagoons annually, and sections of the scrape are dried out and re-flooded on a five-year rotation. The scrape is protected from predators by an electric fence, improved in 2014 and 2015 when it was realised that badgers were attacking ground-nesting birds. The reed beds are grazed by Konik horses and Highland cattle while they are drained; this helps maintain the boundary between reed beds and open water areas. This control of reed density provides open water feeding pools for bitterns within the reed beds. The grazing regime was instituted following investigations into similar schemes in Sweden and Denmark.\n\nThe heathland and acidic grassland areas of Minsmere are managed by grazing, heather and scrub control and removal of trees and unwanted western gorse. The areas of gorse and scrub remaining are cut in rotation to keep the gorse short and dense, providing a scrub structure optimal for nightingales. In 1989, of arable land were purchased in a project to recreate lowland heath and acidic grassland habitat by acidification of the soil, the aim being to join fragmented patches of heathland together and to provide increased habitat for the stone-curlew, woodlark and nightjar, three threatened bird species. Methods used to acidify the land, which had been arable farmland for 150 years, included grazing by sheep or the addition of sulphur, either with bracken and heather waste, or on its own, followed by reseeding.\n\nMinsmere's large size and variety of different habitats, some of which are scarce elsewhere in the UK, make it attractive to many species of animals and plants; around 5800 species have been recorded on the reserve.\n\nAs of 2017, 342 bird species have been sighted at Minsmere, of which 230 are annual and more than 100 have bred. In the 1990s the bittern was in serious decline with only one booming male on the reserve. Creation of ditches and pools and better water-level management led to 9–12 males being present annually, and application of these techniques elsewhere has revived the fortunes of this species in the UK as a whole. The stone curlew has also benefited from the creation of suitable bare-ground nesting habitat, and the reserve's population is now nearly 10 pairs each year, against a single pair in Suffolk in the mid-1990s. The avocet first started its recolonisation of Britain in 1947, four pairs breeding a month after the reserve was acquired by the RSPB. Numbers at Minsmere now vary between 40 and about 140 pairs per year.\n\nIn 1971, the only nesting pair of marsh harriers in the UK were at Minsmere. The population of this polygynous species reached 17 nesting females in 2007, up from the more typical 8 to 10. Other important species are bearded tits, woodlarks, nightjars in open habitats, nightingales in the woodlands, and Dartford warblers, which returned to Minsmere's heaths in the mid-1990s, having been lost to the area six decades earlier.\n\nMany wildfowl winter on the reserve, including wigeon, gadwall and teal, and easterly winds can bring in passage migrants, sometimes in large numbers. These may include uncommon species such as bluethroats, wrynecks and dotterels.\n\nMinsmere's east-coast location and range of habitats make it a major site for rare species. Notable recent occurrences include Great Britain's first western swamphen in 2016, a black-browed albatross in 2015, pallid harrier and collared pratincole in 2014, and Audouin's gull and red-flanked bluetail in 2011.\n\nMammals found at Minsmere include a herd of about 300 red deer, otters, badgers and water voles, the last being protected by active control of introduced American mink which have led to major declines elsewhere. Other vertebrates include adders, small numbers of natterjack toads and 13 species of fish, of which common rudd is an important food source for bitterns.\n\nOver 1000 species of moths and butterflies have been found at Minsmere, including a large breeding population of the silver-studded blue. Rare species include the scarce tortoiseshell butterfly and Britain's only record of the moth species \"Catocala coniuncta\", now given the English name of \"Minsmere crimson underwing\".\nThreatened moths include the flame wainscot, Fenn's wainscot and white-mantled wainscot. The reserve has been colonised by two insect species that are currently expanding their ranges, the European beewolf and the antlion, and it also hosts the hairy-legged mining bee and the minotaur beetle; the latter large insect is a food item for stone-curlews.\n\nDead and decaying trees in the woodlands support a wide range of invertebrates and over 1500 species of fungus, including rare species such as moor club, deceiving bolete and lion's mane mushroom. The shingle ridges on the beaches hold a variety of uncommon plants including yellow horned-poppy, red-tipped cudweed and round-leaved wintergreen.\n\nThe Suffolk coast has been subject to incursions from the sea for centuries, particularly notable events being the loss to the sea of most of the once-important town of Dunwich, next to Minsmere, in a series of storms in 1286, 1328 and 1347, and the 1953 storm which caused flooding and destruction in much of eastern England.\n\nMinsmere faces threats from rising sea levels, caused by climate change, which adversely affect the drainage of the reserve and can lead to river flooding. Coastal erosion also threatens the integrity of the reserve. An Environment Agency assessment in 2011 estimated that Dunwich Heath, the beach at Minsmere and the artificial clay bank behind the beach could suffer severe damage within 20 years, although work by the Environment Agency at the north end of the reserve should hold the sea at bay there for 50 years.\n\nThe construction of a new reactor at the neighbouring Sizewell nuclear power site may also have a potential impact on the reserve. The RSPB and others have argued that the reserve could be adversely affected by the extraction of fresh water for cooling the reactors, potentially lowering water levels on the wetlands and increasing salinity. There could also be changes to the coastline caused directly or indirectly by the actual construction.\n\nAn article written on behalf of the RSPB suggested that any damage to the wetlands at Minsmere is likely to have a major effect on UK bittern numbers since the reserve holds a significant proportion of the national breeding population. In 2018, expansion plans for Sizewell were called into question by National Infrastructure Commission proposals to scale back the nuclear power programme on safety and environmental grounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16941667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16941667", "title": "Rule of three (statistics)", "text": "Rule of three (statistics)\n\nIn statistical analysis, the rule of three states that if a certain event did not occur in a sample with subjects, the interval from 0 to 3/ is a 95% confidence interval for the rate of occurrences in the population. When is greater than 30, this is a good approximation of results from more sensitive tests. For example, a pain-relief drug is tested on 1500 human subjects, and no adverse event is recorded. From the rule of three, it can be concluded with 95% confidence that fewer than 1 person in 500 (or 3/1500) will experience an adverse event. By symmetry, one could expect for only successes, the 95% confidence interval is .\n\nThe rule is useful in the interpretation of clinical trials generally, particularly in phase II and phase III where often there are limitations in duration or statistical power. The rule of three applies well beyond medical research, to any trial done times. If 300 parachutes are randomly tested and all open successfully, then it is concluded with 95% confidence that fewer than 1 in 100 parachutes with the same characteristics (3/300) will fail.\n\nA 95% confidence interval is sought for the probability \"p\" of an event occurring for any randomly selected single individual in a population, given that it has not been observed to occur in \"n\" Bernoulli trials. Denoting the number of events by \"X\", we therefore wish to find the values of the parameter \"p\" of a binomial distribution that give Pr(\"X\" = 0) ≥ 0.05. The rule can then be derived either from the Poisson approximation to the binomial distribution, or from the formula (1−\"p\") for the probability of zero events in the binomial distribution. In the latter case, the edge of the confidence interval is given by Pr(\"X\" = 0) = 0.05 and hence (1−\"p\") = .05 so \"n\" ln(1–\"p\") = ln .05 ≈ −2.996. Rounding the latter to −3 and using the approximation, for \"p\" close to 0, that ln(1−\"p\") ≈ −\"p\", we obtain the interval's boundary 3/\"n\".\n\nBy a similar argument, the numerator values of 3.51, 4.61, and 5.3 may be used for the 97%, 99%, and 99.5% confidence intervals, respectively.\n\nThe Vysochanskij–Petunin inequality shows that the rule of three holds for unimodal distributions with finite variance beyond just the binomial distribution, and gives a way to change the factor 3 if a different confidence is desired. Chebyshev's inequality removes the assumption of unimodality at the price of a higher multiplier (about 4.5 for 95% confidence). Cantelli's inequality is the one-tailed version of Chebyshev's inequality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14894552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14894552", "title": "Self-preservation", "text": "Self-preservation\n\nSelf-preservation is a behavior that ensures the survival of an organism. It is almost universal among living organisms. Pain and fear are integral parts of this mechanism. Pain motivates the individual to withdraw from damaging situations, to protect a damaged body part while it heals, and to avoid similar experiences in the future. Most pain resolves promptly once the painful stimulus is removed and the body has healed, but sometimes pain persists despite removal of the stimulus and apparent healing of the body; and sometimes pain arises in the absence of any detectable stimulus, damage or disease. Fear causes the organism to seek safety and may cause a release of adrenaline, which has the effect of increased strength and heightened senses such as hearing, smell, and sight. Self-preservation may also be interpreted figuratively, in regard to the coping mechanisms one needs to prevent emotional trauma from distorting the mind (see: defence mechanism.)\n\nEven the most simple of living organisms (for example, the single-celled bacteria) are typically under intense selective pressure to evolve a response that would help avoid a damaging environment, if such an environment exists. Organisms also evolve while adapting - even thriving - in a benign environment (for example, a marine sponge modifies its structure in response to current changes, in order to better absorb and process nutrients). Self-preservation is therefore an almost universal hallmark of life. However, when introduced to a novel threat, many species will have a self-preservation response either too specialised, or not specialised enough, to cope with that particular threat. An example is the dodo, which evolved in the absence of natural predators and hence lacked an appropriate, general self-preservation response to heavy predation by humans and rats, showing no fear of them.\n\nSelf preservation is essentially the process of an organism preventing itself from being harmed or killed and is considered a basic instinct in most organisms. Most call it a \"survival instinct\". Self-preservation is thought to be tied to an organisms reproductive fitness and can be more or less present according to perceived reproduction potential. If perceived reproductive potential is low enough, self-destructive behavior(the opposite) is not uncommon in social species. Self-preservation is also thought by some to be the basis of rational and logical thought and behavior.\n\nAn organism's fitness is measured by its ability to pass on its genes. The most straightforward way to accomplish this is to survive to a reproductive age, mate, and then have offspring. These offspring will hold at least a portion of their parent's genes, up to all of the parent's genes in asexual organisms. But in order for this to happen, an organism must first survive long enough to reproduce, and this would mainly consist of adopting selfish behaviors that would allow organisms to maximize their own chances for survival.\n\nAn interesting phenomenon sometimes occurs in social animals. Animals in a social group (of kin) often work cooperatively in order to survive, but when one member perceives itself as a burden for an extended period of time, it may commit self-destructive behavior. This allows its relatives to have a better chance at survival, and if enough close relatives survive, then its genes get indirectly passed on anyways. This behavior works in the exact opposite direction of the survival instinct and could be considered a highly altruistic behavior evolved from a cooperative group. Self-destructive behavior is not the same as risk-taking behavior (see below in Social implications), although risk taking behavior could turn into destructive behavior.\n\nThe desire for self-preservation has led to countless laws and regulations surrounding a culture of safety in society. Seat belt laws, speed limits, texting regulations, and the \"stranger danger\" campaign should all be familiar examples of societal guides and regulations to enhance survival, and these laws are heavily influenced by the pursuit of self-preservation.\n\nSelf-preservation urges animals to collect energy and resources required to prolong life as well as resources that increase chances of survival. Basic needs are available to \"most\" humans (roughly 7 out of 8 people), and usually rather cheaply. The instinct that drives us to gather resources now drives us to over-consumption or to patterns of collection and possession that essentially make hoarding resources the priority.\n\nSelf-preservation is not just limited to individual organisms, this can be scaled up or down to other levels of life. Narula and Young indicate that cardiac myocytes have an acute sense of self-preservation. They are able to duck, dart, and dodge foreign substances that may harm the cell. In addition, when a myocardiac arrest - a heart attack - occurs, it is actually the cardiac myocytes entering a state of hibernation in an attempt to wait out a lack of resources. While this is ultimately deadly to the organism, it prolongs the cell's survival as long as possible for hopeful resuscitation.\n\nWhen scaled in the opposite direction, Hughes-Jones makes the argument that \"social groups that fight each other are self‐sustaining, self‐replicating wholes containing interdependent parts\" indicating that the group as a whole can have self-preservation with the individuals acting as the cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "7371146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7371146", "title": "Shawl scrotum", "text": "Shawl scrotum\n\nShawl scrotum is a condition in which the scrotum surrounds the penis, resembling a 'shawl'.\n\nIt is a characteristic of some syndromes such as Aarskog-Scott syndrome (faciodigitogenital syndrome), Rubenstein-Taybi syndrome, craniofrontonasal dysplasia, Hunter Carpenter McDonald Syndrome, Naguib Syndrome, Saito Kuba Tsuruta Syndrome, Ieshima Koeda Inagaki syndrome, Cystic fibrosis Gastritis Megaloblastic Anemia, Willems de Vries syndrome, Schinzel syndrome and Seaver Cassidy syndrome.\n"}
{"id": "16806312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16806312", "title": "Strength-based practice", "text": "Strength-based practice\n\nStrength-based practice is a social work practice theory that emphasizes people's self-determination and strengths. It is a philosophy and a way of viewing clients as resourceful and resilient in the face of adversity. It is client-led, with a focus on future outcomes and strengths that people bring to a problem or crisis. When applied beyond the field of social work, strength-based practice is also referred to as the \"strength-based approach\".\n\nSocial worker Bertha Reynolds was a proto-theorist for this practice. She criticized the American social work tendency to adopt a psychoanalytic approach (and the corollary dependence on the DSM IV) with clients. It was formally developed by a team from the University of Kansas, including Dennis Saleebey, Charles Rapp & Anne Weick.\n\nIn 1997, Rapp wrote \"The Strengths Model\", which focused on \"amplifying the well part of the patient\". The popularity of his approach spread quickly and in 1999, Dr. Martin Seligman, the president of the American Psychological Association at the time, made an observation that fuelled strength-based practice:\n\n\"The most important thing we learned was that psychology was half-baked. We've baked the part about mental illness, about repair damage. The other side's unbaked, the side of strength, the side of what we're good at\".\n\nSince then, the strength-based approach has been adapted and applied to many contexts. In the service sector, for example, it has been applied to case management, education, community development, and working with many different groups, such as young people and people with mental illnesses. Beyond social services, in 1995, Marcus Buckingham and Donald Clifton introduced the strengths perspective to the business world.\n\nThe strength-based approach is often referred to as a response to more deficit-focused or pathological approaches. For example, Laursen and Nissen noted that in the field of youth justice, the mainstream corrections model focuses on risks, needs, and addresses weaknesses. Alternatively, the strength-based approach enhances strengths, and builds on characteristics that are already present in individuals.\n\nAlthough applied differently depending on the population and service, the approach has been characterized as a philosophy or lens through which people are viewed and through which programs and agencies operate. According to Powell and Batsche, a strength-based philosophy is a critical belief, an all-pervasive attitude that informs a professional's interactions with clients. Ideally, an entire agency will adopt the approach, and, through ongoing training, this attitude-change will occur in all staff, transforming the way they view their work, their colleagues, and, of course, the people and communities they work with.\n\nThis strength-based philosophy holds the core belief that all individuals have strengths and resources. The focus of the practice is on a person's skills, interests and support systems. Its simple premise is to identify what is going well, to do more of it, and to build on it.\n\nEvaluation of the effectiveness of the strength-based approach is limited; however, some studies have shown that working with individuals and communities through a strength lens improves individual outcomes, such as quality of life, employment, and health. On a more societal level, a strength-based approach promotes positive views of individuals and takes focus away from blame or judgement. This alternative view may contribute to de-stigmatization of certain groups and may increase positive political attention and social support. Overall, there is a need for more research and further evaluations of the strength-based approach.\n"}
{"id": "8268725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8268725", "title": "The Education of Shelby Knox", "text": "The Education of Shelby Knox\n\nThe Education of Shelby Knox is 2005 documentary film that tells the coming-of-age story of public speaker and feminist Shelby Knox, a teenager who joins a campaign for comprehensive sex education in the high schools of Lubbock, Texas. TEOSK was an official selection of the Sundance Film Festival in 2005 and aired on PBS’ \"P.O.V.\" series that same year. It was directed and produced by Marion Lipschutz and Rose Rosenblatt.\n\nLubbock has some of the highest teen pregnancy and STD rates in the nation, the \"solution\" to which is a strict abstinence-only sex education curriculum in the public schools and a conservative preacher who urges kids to pledge abstinence until marriage.\n\nShelby Knox is a deeply religious Southern Baptist teenager who joins the Lubbock Youth Commission, a group of high school students representing a youth voice in city government. When the teens confront Lubbock's sexual health crisis and campaign for comprehensive sex education, Knox throws herself into the battle with missionary fervor, struggling to reconcile her newfound political beliefs with her conservative religious views. When the campaign broadens to include a fight for a gay-straight alliance, Knox must confront her family and pastor in this coming-of-age story.\n\n\"The Education of Shelby Knox\" has received a number of awards:\n\nThe Dixie Chicks' 2006 album \"Taking the Long Way\" features a track titled \"Lubbock or Leave It\", which is based on \"The Education of Shelby Knox\". When the song came out, the group's member Emily Robison told the press: \"We'd seen a documentary called \"The Education of Shelby Knox\", which was about a girl ... trying to get Lubbock to teach sex education in the schools. Lubbock has one of the highest rates of teen pregnancy and STDs in the U.S., so it really showed what happens when you keep that information away from people.\" Lead singer Natalie Maines, who is from Lubbock, subsequently spoke (during a 2006 episode of \"VH1 Storytellers\") about watching the film and drawing from her own experiences of living there to write the song.\n\nShelby calls herself a feminist revolutionary. She currently works for change.org, as the director of Organizing Women’s rights. In addition, Shelby is on the advisory board of SPARK, leadership council for ITVS Women, and Girls Lead Initiative. She also is a writer on The Ms. Education of Shelby Knox blog, where she conveys her current opinions on hot topics. Shelby Knox is also on Twitter.\n\nIn the 2013 documentary \"How to Lose Your Virginity\", scenes from \"The Education of Shelby Knox\" are featured alongside interviews with Shelby Knox.\n\nAs of June 2011, Shelby Knox is living in New York City and serving as the Director of Organizing, Women's Rights for Change.org.\n\n"}
{"id": "12570432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12570432", "title": "Tonga Red Cross Society", "text": "Tonga Red Cross Society\n\nTonga Red Cross Society (TRCS) was established in 1961 and it has its headquarters in Nukualofa.\n\n"}
{"id": "57689694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57689694", "title": "Trump administration family separation policy", "text": "Trump administration family separation policy\n\nThe Trump administration family separation policy, described by the Trump administration as part of its \"zero tolerance\" policy, was an aspect of U.S. President Donald Trump's immigration policy. The new guidelines were implemented in April 2018, and, following immense public opposition and political pressure, were suspended for an indefinite period of time on June 20, 2018, through an executive order.\n\nUnder the zero tolerance protocol, federal authorities separated children from their parents, relatives, or other adults who accompanied them in crossing the border. Despite documented cases of children being separated when lawfully presenting at ports of entry, the Trump administration said this only happened in cases of protecting children or human trafficking. The policy involved prosecuting all adults who were detained at the U.S.–Mexico border, sending the parents to federal jails, and placing children and infants under the supervision of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. According to government officials, the policy led to the separation of almost 3,000 children from their parents.\n\nThe Trump administration sought to justify the new policy while also blaming Congress for it, with President Trump referring to \"the Democrats’ law\" and calling for a change to existing immigration laws. Democrats, and many Republicans, spoke out forcefully against the policy. Critics emphasised that no law forced the government to separate families. Attorney General Jeff Sessions defended the policy, citing a passage from the Bible. Other administration officials argued that the policy was intended to deter immigration or be used as political leverage to force Democrats and moderate Republicans to accept hardline immigration legislation.\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics, the American College of Physicians and the American Psychiatric Association condemned the policy, with the American Academy of Pediatrics saying that the policy has caused \"irreparable harm\" to the children. On June 30, a national protest was held \nwhich drew hundreds of thousands of protesters from all 50 states to demonstrate in more than 600 towns and cities.\n\nAuthorities made the decision to take children from their parents without a plan to reunite families, resulting in numerous cases of parents and children having no contact since being forcefully separated. Following national and international criticism, on June 20 President Trump signed an executive order ending family separations at the border. Following the suspension of the policy, Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar testified that the Department would only reunite children with their detained parents if Congress passed legislation lifting the 20-day limit on family detention required under the Flores settlement. On July 26, responding to an ACLU class action lawsuit, a federal judge ordered all separated children, except where not appropriate, be reunited with their parent within 30 days. On July 26, the Trump administration said that 1,442 children had been reunited with their parents while 711 remained in government shelters. Officials said they will work with the court to return the remaining children, including 431 parents of those children who have already been deported without their children. As of August 20, 528 of the children — about a fifth — have still not been reunited with their parents.\n\nPresident George W. Bush began the trend of a \"zero tolerance\" approach in 2005 with Operation Streamline, but during his administration, exceptions were generally made for adults traveling with minors.\n\nU.S. President Barack Obama made changes to immigration policy, releasing parents and focusing on deportation of immigrants who committed crimes in the U.S. Attempting to cope with the 2014 American immigration crisis, a surge of refugees fleeing violence in Central America, while complying with the 1997 Flores v. Reno Settlement Agreement consent decree by keeping families together, under Obama the Department of Homeland Security built family detention centers in Pennsylvania, New Mexico, and Texas.\n\nIn 2015 Obama introduced the Family Case Management Program which, according to the fact sheet about the program, specifically prioritized \"families with certain vulnerabilities, including pregnant or nursing family member; those with very young children; family members with medical/mental health concerns; families who speak only indigenous languages; and other special needs\" to offer an alternative to being held in detention centers while awaiting the court to process their asylum claims, which often takes years.\n\nIn 2016, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in \"Flores v. Lynch\" that detained immigrant children should be released as quickly as possible, but that parents were not required to be freed. The Obama administration complied by releasing women and children after detaining them together for 21 days.\n\nPresidential candidate Donald Trump said ending \"catch and release\" was the second of his two priorities for immigration reform, after walling off Mexico. When the administration began separating families, pro-Trump pundits argued that the administration was implementing the same policy as the Obama administration. According to PolitiFact, the assertion that Trump was implementing the same policy as Obama is \"false\", noting \"Obama's immigration policy specifically sought to avoid breaking up families. While some children were separated from their parents under Obama, this was relatively rare and families were quickly reunited even if that meant the release of a parent from detention.\" The Obama Administration did consider separating families, but decided against it.\n\nIn January 2017, the American Immigration Council and five other advocacy organizations filed a complaint with the Department of Homeland Security's Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties protesting the \"systemic denial of entry to asylum seekers\". It is not legal for the US to deny anyone the right to seek asylum. Nonetheless, according to advocacy lawyers, asylum seekers presenting at border crossings were denied for a variety of reasons, including \"the daily quota has been reached,\" that they needed to present a visa, or that they needed to schedule an appointment through Mexican authorities, none of which are accurate. One nonprofit organization spokesperson commented, \"We've basically arrived at a place where applying for asylum is not available to most people.\"\n\nThe Department of Homeland Security's Office of Inspector General concluded that this practice, which it calls \"metering\" legal entry \"leads some aliens who would otherwise seek legal entry into the United States to cross the border illegally.\"\n\nThe administration also cancelled the Central American Minors Program (CAM) which had given the hope to parents that they would be able to bring their child into the U.S. legally – ending the parole portion of the program in August 2017 and no longer accepting new applications for the refugee portion of the program as of November 9, 2017. The CAM program had allowed some parents to bring their children legally to the U.S. since 2015, with the children gaining the right to apply for citizenship if they were granted special refugee status. Due to the processing delays, the program had not offered relief for those who faced the a threat of immediate danger, yet at the level of the individual families it had made it less attractive to bring children illegally, as there was the prospect of legal entry.\n\nFrom July to October 2017, the Trump administration ran what the DHS called a \"pilot program\" for zero tolerance in El Paso. Families were separated, including families that were seeking asylum, and children were then reclassified as \"unaccompanied\" and sent into a network of shelters with no system created to reunite them with their parents. The existence of this early \"pilot program\" first became widely known in June 2018, with reporting by NBC News from information by DHS.\n\nIn May 2018, NPR spoke with a director at The Young Center for Immigrant Children's Rights, an agency that advocates for the children's best interests. Asked if staff had noticed an increase in children coming in with parents and then separated from them at the border, the director told NPR, \"We noticed as early as late spring of 2017, and through the winter and now the spring of this year, we have seen a significant number of children referred to us for the appointment of a child advocate for kids taken from their parents at the border.\"\n\nAccording to an April 2018 memo obtained by \"The Washington Post\", the government viewed the El Paso experiment as successful in that it showed a 64% drop in apprehensions while apprehensions began to rise in October when it was paused. This \"experiment\" was eventually used by ICE, CBP, and CIS to launch the zero-tolerance program across the entire Southwest border in April.\n\nTwo weeks after President Trump was inaugurated on January 20, 2017, the administration reviewed the idea of separating immigrant children from their mothers as a way to deter asylum-seekers. In March 2017, it was first reported that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) was considering a proposal to separate parents from their children if they were caught attempting to cross the border into the United States. John Kelly, then Secretary of Homeland Security, confirmed that the policy was under consideration, but later denied it. Speaking on \"Democracy Now!\" the director of the National Immigration Law Center said that the policy, if implemented, would amount \"to state-sanctioned violence against children, against families that are coming to the United States to seek safety\" and that the administration did not act with transparency in explaining what was being proposed.\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) issued a statement to address media reports of the plan, \"...We urge policymakers to always be mindful that these are vulnerable, scared children,\" and they offered to assist Homeland Security in \"crafting immigration procedures that protect children\". In March, more than a month prior to the official \"zero tolerance\" decision, the ACLU filed a class-action lawsuit against the Trump administration charging that the administration was illegally separating hundreds of children from their parents while the parents awaited asylum proceedings.\n\nOn April 5, the DHS said they were no longer considering the policy partly due to the steep decline in mothers attempting to travel to the U.S. with their children, however Attorney General Jeff Sessions then ordered an escalation of federal prosecutions. Parents were being charged with misdemeanors and jailed while their children were classed as unaccompanied and placed under DHS care. Within five months, hundreds of children were reported to have been separated from their parents. In late April 2018, the media reported that a review of government data found that about 700 migrant children, more than 100 of them under the age of 4, had been taken from their parents since October 2017. At that time Department of Homeland Security officials said they did not split families to deter immigration but rather to \"protect the best interests of minor children crossing our borders\". Saying it would save $12 million a year, in June the Trump administration ended the Family Case Management Program, which kept asylum-seeking mothers and their children out of detention.\n\nBy December, after a new surge in families crossing the southern border, the DHS was again considering the policy to separate children from parents. In January 2018, following testimony from Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen in which she refused to rule out implementing the proposed policy of the separation of parents from their children, more than 200 child welfare organizations released a letter calling for the Trump Administration to abandon plans to forcibly separate children from their parents at the U.S. border. The letter said, in part: \"We know that this policy would have significant and long-lasting consequences for the safety, health, development, and well-being of children. Children need to be cared for by their parents to be safe and healthy, to grow and develop. Forced separation disrupts the parent-child relationship and puts children at increased risk for both physical and mental illness. The Administration's plan would eviscerate the principle of family unity and put children in harm's way.\"\n\nOn April 6, 2018, Attorney General Jeff Sessions directed federal prosecutors \"to adopt immediately a zero-tolerance policy for all offenses\" related to the misdemeanor of improper entry into the United States, and that this \"zero-tolerance policy shall supersede any existing policies\". This would aim to criminally convict first-time offenders when historically they would face civil and administrative removal, while criminal convictions were usually reserved for those who committed the felony of illegal re-entry after removal. On May 7, 2018, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced:\nMultiple media accounts, as well as direct testimony from detained migrants to members of Congress, reported that immigrant families presenting themselves at ports of entry seeking asylum were also being separated. Speaking on Face the Nation on June 17, Senator Susan Collins said that the Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen had testified before the Senate that asylum seekers with families would not be separated if they presented themselves at a legal port of entry, \"Yet, there are numerous credible media accounts showing that exactly that is happening, and the administration needs to put an end to that right off.\" Later in the day Nielsen tweeted: \"We do not have a policy of separating families at the border. Period.\"\n\nThe policy is notably unpopular, more so than any other major bill or executive action in recent memory. Poll aggregates show that approximately 25% of Americans supported the policy, although a majority of Republicans supported it.\nFollowing the May announcement, dozens of protest demonstrations were held, attracting thousands. In Washington, D.C., Democratic members of Congress marched in protest. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights called for the Trump administration to \"immediately halt\" its policy of separating children from their parents, and human rights activists have criticized that the policy, insofar as it is also applied to asylum seekers, defies Article 31 of the Refugee Convention.\n\nDespite previously asserting that \"You can't [reverse the policy] through an executive order,\" on June 20, 2018, Trump bowed to intense political pressure and signed an executive order to reverse the policy while still maintaining \"zero tolerance\" border control by detaining entire families together. Asked by a reporter why he had taken so long to sign the order, Trump asserted, \"It's been going on for 60 years. Sixty years. Nobody has taken care of it. Nobody has had the political courage to take care of it. But we're going to take care of it.\"\n\nWhen it became clear that \"zero tolerance\" could not be sustained while keeping families together within the scope of court rulings, Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAlee announced on June 25 that the agency would cease referring every person caught crossing the border illegally for prosecution, effectively ending the \"zero tolerance\" policy. Implementing \"zero tolerance\" was a \"huge challenge operationally for our agents\", McAlee said: Border Patrol stations were being overwhelmed by the number of children being held in crowded conditions in holding cells while their parents were processed in court and held in immigration detention, and agents were spending more time processing detained immigrants than guarding the border.\n\nOn June 26, a Federal Court ordered the government to reunify separated families within 30 days. On September 20, 2018, the government reported to the court that it had reunified or otherwise released 2,167 of the 2,551 children over 5 years of age who were separated from a parent and deemed eligible for reunification by the Government. \n\nIn February 2017, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) asylum chief John Lafferty told DHS employees that the Trump administration was \"in the process of reviewing\" several policies aimed at lowering the number of asylum seekers to the United States, which included the idea of separating migrant mothers and children.\n\nSpeaking on NPR in May 2018, White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly described the policy as \"a tough deterrent [and] a much faster turnaround on asylum seekers\". When questioned if it might be considered \"cruel and heartless\" to remove children from their mothers, Kelly replied, \"I wouldn't put it quite that way. The children will be taken care of—put into foster care or whatever.\"\n\nIn June 2018, Attorney General Sessions said, \"If people don't want to be separated from their children, they should not bring them with them. We've got to get this message out. You're not given immunity.\" White House senior policy adviser Stephen Miller said: \"It was a simple decision by the administration to have a zero tolerance policy for illegal entry, period. The message is that no one is exempt from immigration law.\"\n\n\"The Washington Post\" quoted a White House official as saying that Trump's decision was intended to \"force people to the table\" to negotiate on laws in Congress. Meanwhile, Trump tweeted: \"Any Immigration Bill MUST HAVE full funding for the Wall, end Catch & Release, Visa Lottery and Chain, and go to Merit Based Immigration.\"\n\nThe Department of Homeland Security (DHS) detains families suspected of illegally crossing the border, or in some cases families applying for asylum. Prior to 2018, most suspected illegal border-crossers were dealt with through civil proceedings in immigration courts, where deportation proceedings and asylum hearings take place; most who were criminally prosecuted in federal court \"either had been apprehended at least twice before, or had committed a serious crime\". Under the Trump administration's new \"zero-tolerance\" policy, the Department of Justice is criminally prosecuting all suspected illegal border-crossers for illegal entry, even those who crossed for the first time. Families undergo separations when parents or adult relatives are charged with unlawful entry.\n\nParents are held in Federal jails prior to trial. The government conducts expedited, mass trials of alleged border crossers under Operation Streamline. According to \"The New York Times\", \"Lawyers receive the roster of clients assigned to them on the morning of the hearing and meet with each one for about 20 minutes to explain the charges and the process in Spanish.\" People who plead guilty are typically sentenced to time served in jail, while repeat offenders may be sentenced to 30 to 75 days in jail. Once convicted, they are eligible for deportation. Due to a Trump executive order, DHS no longer prioritizes deporting those convicted of more dangerous crimes. They are then transferred to Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody.\n\nAccording to several defense lawyers working with the immigrants, in many cases the Border Patrol agents lie to the parents in order to get them to let go of their kids, telling them that the children are being taken for questioning or \"to be given a bath\". In other cases the children may be removed to another location while the parent is in jail being processed, which generally takes a few hours. \nChildren are held temporarily by the DHS before being transferred to the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR). ORR contracts the operation of around 100 facilities for child migrants to companies and nonprofit organizations. The \"Flores\" settlement requires that ORR hold children no longer than 20 days before releasing them.\n\nChildren are being transferred into foster care placements across the country. The fifty children placed in western Michigan include infants of 8 and 11 months, and have an average age of 8. Children are flown to Michigan during the overnight hours, and foster care officials report they have not been told where they are going. Officials also report that children have been waiting as long as 30 days to speak to their parents, due to difficulties locating them.\n\nAccording to the legal support organization KIND, in at least six cases including that of a two-year-old girl, parents being deported have not been reunited with their children, who remain in the United States.\n\nAccording to a June 2018 analysis by \"USA Today\", in most cases migrants are bused from the immigration holding facility to federal court where they plead guilty to having entered the country illegally, a misdemeanor, and are sentenced to whatever time they have already spent in the government's custody and a $10 fine. They are then bused back to the holding facility to be processed for deportation. If they have children, upon their return they may find that their children are gone.\n\nAccording to a report of June 27 by \"Texas Tribune\", immigrant children as young as 3 years old have been ordered into court for their own deportation proceedings. Children in immigration court are not entitled to free, court-appointed attorneys to represent them. Instead, they are given a list of legal services organizations that might help them.\n\nIn the past, most migrants illegally crossing the border came almost entirely from Mexico; however, the current influx now includes greater numbers of women and children fleeing violence, gang recruitment, and sexual trafficking in the Northern Triangle of Central America countries of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. Rather than illegally crossing into the US, they are presenting themselves at the border hoping to claim asylum, which they are legally entitled to do.\n\nIn June, U.S. Representative Pramila Jayapal spoke with recently arrived detainees at the Federal Detention Center, SeaTac facility located near Seattle. The facility housed 206 immigrants, 174 of them were women. Many of the women spoke of \"fleeing threats of rape, gang violence and political persecution\". She said more than half of the women were mothers who had forcibly been separated from their children, some as young as 12 months old, and said that many did not know where their children were being detained. Commenting on her visit of the facility, Jayapal called the women's stories \"heartbreaking\", saying, \"I've been doing immigration-rights work for almost two decades. I am not new to these stories. I will tell you there was not a dry eye in the house. ... Some of them heard their children screaming for them in the next room. Not a single one of them had been allowed to say goodbye or explain to them what was happening.\"\n\nThe Department of Homeland Security confirmed on June 15 that 1,995 immigrant children were separated from their parents during the six weeks from April 19 and May 31. This figure does not include children of families that asked for asylum at an official border crossing and were then separated. Speaking on Face the Nation on June 17, Senator Susan Collins suggested that the number may well be higher.\n\nSteven Wagner, the Acting Assistant Secretary for the Administration for Children and Families under HHS, was unable to say in June 2018 how many separated children had been placed with sponsors or reunited with their parents. But that the department is \"under a legal obligation\" to place children quickly with a sponsor, however, \"we actually don't have a time limit in terms of days\" that the children are allowed to stay in HHS care.\n\nZero tolerance and the separation of children was suspended for an indefinite period of time on June 20, 2018, through an executive order. On June 26, a federal judge issued a nationwide preliminary injunction against the family-separation policy and required the government to reunite separated families within 30 days and to reunite children under five years of age with parents within 14 days. On that date DHS stated that 522 migrant children, all of them in the custody of Customs and Border Protection, had been reunited with their families. After a site visit to DHS facilities, Senator Elizabeth Warren reported that, \"Mothers and children may be considered 'together' if they're held in the same gigantic facility, even if they're locked in separate cages with no access to one another.\" The Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar testified that 2,047 children—out of a total of around 2,300 ever in HHS custody—continued to be held in HHS-contracted facilities.\n\nOn July 5, Azar declared that the total number of children that had been separated was under 3,000 and that, of these, the number of children under five years was fewer than 100. On July 6, government lawyers informed Judge Sabraw that HHS would be able to meet the deadline of July 19 for only about half of the concerned children. The government had connected 46 of the toddlers with parents still in custody. Concerning the other half, the lawyers stated that the parents of 19 of the children had been released and now had unknown whereabouts, and the parents of further 19 children had been deported. Two children had been connected to parents criminally ineligible to re-take custody of their children. Judge Sabraw said the time limit for reunifying the youngest children could be extended under the condition that the government would provide a master list of all children and the status of their parents. A list of 101 children was to be shared with the ACLU within the following day. A status conference was scheduled for the morning of July 9 concerning which cases would merit a delay. On July 6, a government lawyer provided the status of 102 children under 5 in custody to Federal Judge Dana Sabraw, and stated that numbers are approximate and \"in flux\".\n\nIn September 2018 it was reported that 12,800 children were being held in federal custody, and that federal shelters housing migrant children were filled to around 90% since May 2018.\n\nOn July 9, the government stated that the number of parents deported alone and the number of parents released to the United States alone were each nine, rather than 19. As of that date, two parents of children younger than five had been reunited. The government said that more than fifty parents would be reunited with their small children on July 10, and that they would be released from ICE custody into the United States after being reunited. DoJ lawyer Sarah Fabian stated that of the 102 children, 75 were eligible for release and 27 could not be immediately be reunited for various reasons.\n\nAn HHS official reported that of the 102 children, 38 had been returned to their families by Tuesday evening, and that more reunions were to continue \"throughout the night\". The administration gave reasons why the remaining 64 children were not united by the deadline. According to the administration, in one case, parent and child may both be U.S. citizens.\n\nOn July 23, the administration stated that 879 parents had been reunited with their children, another 538 have been cleared for reunification, further 463 parents had cases that were still under review, and further 454 were either considered not eligible or were not yet known to be eligible for reunification with their children. More than 450 parents may have already been deported without their children. On July 26, 1,637 children were deemed eligible for reunification and 711 were deemed not eligible. So far, 1,442 had been reunited. Those deemed not eligible included 431 whose parents may have been deported and 120 with parents who waived reunification.\n\nThe costs of separating migrant children from their parents and keeping them in \"tent cities\" are higher than keeping them with their parents in detention centers. It costs $775 per person per night to house the children when they are separated but $256 per person per night when they are held in permanent HHS facilities and $298 per person per night to keep the children with their parents in ICE detention centers.\n\nTo handle the large amount of immigration charges brought by the Trump administration, federal prosecutors had to divert resources from other crime cases. The head of the Justice Department's major crimes unit in San Diego diverted staff from drug smuggling cases. Drug smuggling cases were also increasingly pursued in state courts rather than federal courts, as federal prosecutor were increasingly preoccupied with pursuing charges against illegal border crossings. In October 2018, \"USA Today\" reported that federal drug-trafficking prosecutions on the Southern border plummeted, as prosecutorial resources were diverted to the family separation policy.\n\nIt was reported in June 2018, that the Trump administration plans to pay a Texas Non-Profit Southwest Key Programs Inc, more than $458 million in the fiscal year of 2018 to care for immigrant children detained crossing the US border illegally.\n\nIn July 2018, it was reported that HHS had diverted at least $40 million from its health programs to care for and reunify migrant children, and that the HHS was preparing to shift more than $200 million from other HHS accounts. In September 2018, it was reported that the Trump administration planned to shift more than $260 million from HHS programs, including those on cancer research and HIV/AIDS research, to cover the costs associated with detaining children and delaying releasing them to adults.\n\nOn June 18, 2018, as reporters waited for a briefing by the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen, ProPublica posted a recording of crying children begging for their parents just after being separated from them, which the reporters listened to as they waited for her to speak. Nielsen arrived and spoke, blaming Congress for the administration's policy of separating parents from their children and saying that there would be no change in policy until Congress rewrote the nation's immigration laws. At one point during the briefing, \"New York\" magazine reporter Olivia Nuzzi played the tape. Nielsen refused to answer any questions about the material in the tape, such as \"How is this not child abuse?\"\n\nMost of the tape consists of children crying and wailing for their parents, but a six-year-old girl is heard to repeatedly beg that her aunt be called, who she is certain will come and pick her up. ProPublica was able to contact the aunt, however the aunt was unable to assist for fear that her own petition of asylum would be put in jeopardy due to the recent Trump Administration decision to discontinue asylum protections for victims of gang and domestic violence. The aunt said that she was able to keep in touch with her niece by phone and that she had talked to her sister; however, her sister had not yet been allowed to speak with her child. The aunt said that the authorities had told the child that her mother may be deported without her.\n\nCommenting on President Trump's executive order and how it was related to the tape of the children crying, Republican commentator Leslie Sanchez commented on Face the Nation, \"And a lot of Republicans I talked to, even bundlers, people that put big amounts of money together, said, when they heard the cries of the children, without visual, being separated, that was the moment where America knew this was too far. And that's when the president retreated.\"\n\nThere are concerns that the facilities that children were held in may have in the past been associated with the forcible drugging of children. \nThe \"Texas Tribune\" reported that detained children who had previously been held at the Shiloh Treatment Center said they had been forcibly treated with antipsychotic drugs by the facility personnel, based on legal filings from a class action lawsuit. According to the filings, the drugs made the children listless, dizzy and incapacitated, and in some cases unable to walk. According to a mother, after receiving the drug, her child repeatedly fell, hitting her head and eventually ending up in a wheel chair. Another child stated that she tried to open a window, at which point one of the supervisors hurled her against a door, choked her until she fainted and had a doctor forcibly administer an injection while she was being held down by two guards. A forensic psychiatrist consulted by the \"Tribune\" compared the practice to what \"the old Soviet Union used to do\".\n\nThe treatment center is one of the companies that have been investigated on charges of mistreating children, although the federal government continues to employ the private agency which runs it as a federal contractor.\n\nOn July 30, a federal judge ruled that government officials have been in violation of state child welfare laws when giving psychotropic drugs to migrant children without first seeking the consent of their parents or guardians. According to the ruling given by Judge Dolly Gee, staff members have admitted to signing off on medications in lieu of a parent, relative, or guardian. The judge also ordered that the government must move all children from the facility except for those deemed by a licensed professional to pose a “risk of harm” to themselves or others.\n\nGovernment data of arrests by border agents suggest that the family separation policy did little to deter migrants from crossing the US border illegally.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union filed an class-action lawsuit against the federal government on behalf of two mothers (one from Brazil, one from Democratic Republic of the Congo) who had been separated from their children, seeking a halt to the policy. On June 25, the ACLU requested an injunction halting the policy. On June 26, 2018, U.S. District Judge Dana Sabraw of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California issued a nationwide preliminary injunction against the family-separation policy.\n\nIn his opinion, Sabraw wrote: \"The facts set forth before the court portray reactive governance — responses to address a chaotic circumstance of the government's own making. They belie measured and ordered governance, which is central to the concept of due process enshrined in our Constitution. This is particularly so in the treatment of migrants, many of whom are asylum seekers and small children.\" Judge Sabraw wrote that the federal government \"readily keeps track of personal property of detainees in criminal and immigration proceedings\", yet \"has no system in place to keep track of, provide effective communication with, and promptly produce alien children\". The injunction barred the U.S. government from separating parents and children at the border unless the adults presented a danger to children, and required the government to reunite separated families within 30 days, to reunite children under five years of age with parents within 14 days, and to permit all separated minors to speak with their parents within ten days.\n\nJudge Sabraw set a status hearing for July 6. On July 6, the Trump administration asked for more time to reunite migrant families separated, highlighting the challenge of confirming familial relationship between parents and children, with parents of 19 of 101 detained children under the age of 5 already deported according to a Department of Justice lawyer. The Judge set another deadline of Tuesday (July 10) for reunification, and gave the government until Saturday evening to create a list of all 101 youngest children along with an explanation of proposed difficulties. With the list the Judge believed that the two sides would be able to have \"... an intelligent conversation Monday (July 9) morning about which child can be reunited July 10, which can not - and then the court can determine whether it makes sense to relax the deadline\".\n\nCharging the Trump Administration with initiating new government screening policies designed to bar immigrants from entering the country by preventing them from getting a fair hearing, on August 7, 2018, the ACLU filed a lawsuit which focuses on migrants who have been placed in fast-track deportation proceedings known as “expedited removal.” The lawsuit was filed on behalf of 12 migrants who failed their “credible fear” interviews, one of the first steps for asylum seekers in the fast-track removal process.\n\nOn June 26, a separate legal challenge to the family separation was brought by 17 states (California, Delaware, Iowa, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia and Washington) against the Trump administration. The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court in Seattle. The plaintiff states, all of whom have Democratic state attorneys general, challenge the forcible separation of families as a \"cruel and unlawful\" violation of the constitution's Due Process and Equal Protection Clause. Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson is leading the suit. California Attorney General Xavier Becerra, who represents California, called Trump's executive order putting a halt to the policy as an \"empty and meaningless order that claims to take back policies that he [Trump] put in place himself as a political stunt\".\n\nIn a new motion filed on July 2, the group asked for immediate information and access to those that are being detained. The motion included more than 900 pages of declarations from family members as well as others that have been involved in the separation of the families. On July 5, PBS Newshour reported on 12 of the 99 declarations that they believe \"offer a window into what's has been happening under the family separation policy\". PBS included information from the declaration of one mother who wrote that her 1-year-old son was taken from her at a legal point of entry in November. She said that when they were reunited after three months he cried continually and when she removed his clothing she found him to be dirty and infected with lice. Others spoke of multiple detainees, including young children, held in very small rooms or cages, sometimes \"freezing\" cold, and without adequate bathroom facilities. Several others wrote of a lack of food, including food for children. One woman wrote that she was kept in a cell with nearly 50 other mothers and they were told \"that they could not eat because they were asking about their children.\"\n\nOn June 21, 2018, the Department of Justice (DoJ) asked U.S. District Court Judge Dolly Gee to alter her 2015 ruling in \"Reno v. Flores\" on the conditions of family detention by the Department of Homeland Security. The government seeks to end a 20-day limit on family detention and to end the requirement that children be held in day care centers that are state-licensed. The DoJ filing claims that limits on detention must be ended due to \"a destabilizing migratory crisis\". Attorney Peter Schey, who represents the child plaintiffs in Flores, vowed to oppose the filing He filed an opposition on the grounds of there having been no significant change in circumstances warranting such a revision of the ruling. On June 29, the DoJ filed a statement that in future the Government will ″detain families together during the pendency of immigration proceedings when they are apprehended at or between ports of entry″ in place of separating them.\n\nOn July 9, Judge Gee denied the government's request to hold families together indefinitely in ICE facilities, and its request to exempt detention facilities from state licensing requirements for that purpose. Gee wrote that, \"Absolutely nothing prevents Defendants from reconsidering their current blanket policy of family detention and reinstating prosecutorial discretion.\"\n\nOn August 23, the American Immigration Lawyers Association and the American Immigration Council filed a complaint with DHS alleging the “pervasive, and illegal, practice of coercing separated mothers and fathers into signing documents they may not have understood.” According to the complaint, “the trauma of separation and detention creates an environment that is by its very nature coercive and makes it extremely difficult for parents to participate in legal proceedings affecting their rights.” It also describes the use of \"physical and verbal threats, the denial of food and water, the use of solitary confinement, the use of starvation, restrictions on feminine-hygiene products, and the use of pre-filled forms.\"\n\nSeparately, a Guatemalan woman filed a federal lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in Washington challenging the Trump administration's practice on June 19, before the Executive Order. It is one of a small number of similar court challenges, with demands such as the immediate release of the child, an order prohibiting US authorities from separating the family, and money for damages of pain and suffering.\n\nAnother lawsuit is that of a 9-year-old boy from Honduras who, according to the family, had fled with his father after his grandfather was murdered, was detained at the border and was separated from his father while sleeping. Another case is that of a 14-year-old girl who, so the lawsuit, had fled persecution in El Salvador and was lured away from her mother at a detention facility in Texas under the pretext of taking her to bathe. In both cases, the child was brought thousands of miles away.\n\nOn September 5, a federal lawsuit was filed to seek monetary damages on the basis of the inflicted psychological harm and the creation of a fund to support the mental health treatment of the children.\n\n\n\n\n\nAuthorities made the decision to take children from their parents without a plan to reunite families, resulting in numerous cases of parents and children having no contact since being forcefully separated. One investigation reported that \"The policy is being applied in such an opaque and ad hoc manner that government case workers, public defenders, federal prosecutors, judges, and the Border Patrol do not have clear answers about if, when, or where children will be reunited with their parents, or even whether separated parents are able to communicate with their kids by phone.\" When asked if separated parents will \"just fall into a black hole\" and be unable to reunite with their children unless they hire a lawyer, a Justice Department official replied that once the parent is in ICE custody, the child is taken into the Health and Human Services system, and the government does not try to reunite them.\n\nIt was reported that if or when an attempt was made to reconnect children to their parents it would be difficult because children and parents entered two separate systems: parents entered the US Department of Homeland Security to face criminal prosecution while children were classified as an \"unaccompanied alien child\" and transferred to the US Department of Health and Human Services. At that point the government no longer tracked them as a family unit and there was no system in place to reunite families. In May, parents in the McAllen facility were given a number to call to locate their children, but it was the wrong number, and no phones were available for their use. A federal public defender working at the facility spoke to a judge asking that the families be reunited saying, \"This is a tragedy that's happening right before this court. There's a very real possibility the parent will be deported without their children\". John Sandweg, the former head of ICE, agreed saying, \"You could easily end up in a situation where the gap between a parent's deportation and a child's deportation is years,\" and that many children might never see their parents again.\n\nRepresentative Pramila Jayapal met with dozens of mothers whose children had been taken from them, and reported that in some cases, Border Patrol agents told the mothers that \"their families don't exist anymore.\" \"The Boston Globe\" interviewed foster parents in Michigan who were caring for four children that had been taken from their parents; a six-year-old boy, two eight-year-old girls, and a nine-year-old boy. Only one of the children, the six-year-old, knew where his parent was. The boy and his father, from Honduras, had crossed the border six months previously in an attempt to claim asylum, and he had not seen him since he had been led away in handcuffs. In May 2018, another Honduran man, Marco Antonio Muñoz, 39, committed suicide after his 3-year-old son was forcibly taken and separated from him by Border Patrol Agents. The man had crossed the Rio Grande with his son and his wife and turned himself and his family in to authorities to ask for asylum.\n\nA journalist working for \"The New Yorker\" spoke with several women incarcerated at the Otero County Prison, a privately run facility in New Mexico, and an attorney who is representing them. One mother tearfully said that she had no idea where her child might be and was concerned that his medical conditions were not being attended to. Another mother said that of the fifty mothers in her wing at Otero few knew where there children were. The public defender representing these mothers said, \"The family-separation policy is changing the lawyer-client relationship. My clients don't even care about beating the charge they're facing. It makes it harder to represent them, because all they want is to be with their children. There can't really be due process for a parent in a situation like this.\"\n\nDespite numerous reports of separations in which parents were not given information about their children, Senator James Lankford, speaking on \"Meet the Press\" blamed \"media that's not been responsible with this\" for reports of difficulties locating parents or children. Calling the government personal working for the various agencies that have been handling the separations \"professionals\", he stated, \"They know where every child is to be able to connect them to their parent or their relative that came.\"\n\nFollowing a court order by District Judge Dana Sabraw to reunite all parents with their children by July 26, it was revealed that about 500 children's parents had already been deported. Judge Sabraw commented, \"What was lost in the process was the family. The parents didn’t know where the children were, and the children didn’t know where the parents were. And the government didn’t know either.” On August 2, the Justice Department filed in court that the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) should take responsibility for reuniting families, rather than the federal government. The ACLU responded by stating that while they are ready to help, the burden of responsibility for finding parents of minors separated at the border was the government's responsibility.\n\nThe policy attracted significant condemnation from a wide array of sources including medical, scientific, religious and human rights groups. It is extremely unpopular with the public, with approximately 25% of Americans supporting the policy, less than any recent major piece of legislation. The detainment of children by the U.S. government has been compared to the Nazi concentration camps by some observers and politicians.\n\nThe policy has been condemned by the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American College of Physicians and the American Psychiatric Association, with the American Academy of Pediatrics saying that the policy has caused \"irreparable harm\" to the children. Together, they represent more than 250,000 doctors in the United States. Pediatrician Nadine Burke Harris described the family separation policy as \"a recipe for toxic stress\". Dr. Irwin Redlener, who co-founded Children's Health Fund, called the policy \"dehumanizing\" and described it as a form of child abuse. A number of concerned researchers and clinicians signed an open letter to Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen calling on her to end the migrant child separations, writing, \"Decades of psychological and brain research have demonstrated that forced parental separation and placement in incarceration-like facilities can have profound immediate, long-term, and irreparable harm on infant and child development.\"\n\nMany religious groups also oppose the policy including many Christian organizations such as: \n\nIn response to a criticism of the policy by a cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church, Attorney General Jeff Sessions defended the policy, citing the Bible.\n\nOn June 18, a group of more than 600 United Methodist Church clergy and laity announced that they were bringing church law charges against Attorney General Jeff Sessions. The members of the group accused Sessions of \"child abuse, immorality, racial discrimination and dissemination of doctrines contrary to the standards of the doctrine of the United Methodist Church\". The last charge refers to Sessions' \"misuse\" of Romans 13, which he quoted to argue that secular law must always be obeyed.\n\nAll four major denominations of American Judaism oppose the policy:\n\nIslamic organizations also oppose the policy.\n\nPope Francis supports statements by US Catholic Bishops who had called the policy \"contrary to our Catholic values\" and \"immoral\", adding \"It's not easy, but populism is not the solution.\"\n\nEvangelist Franklin Graham, son of evangelist Billy Graham, called the practice \"disgraceful\" and said that \"it's terrible to see families ripped apart and I don't support that one bit.\" Graham did not, however, attach blame to President Trump or his administration, but rather blamed \"... the politicians for the last 20, 30 years that have allowed this to escalate to where it is today\".\n\nMany professors and administrators in colleges and universities have likened the policy to the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II. Open letters signed by various scholars denounced the policy and called for its halt.\n\nA large number of civil rights groups, humanitarian organizations, and other groups condemned the family separation policy, including the Anti-Defamation League, the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, the League of Women Voters of the United States, the International Rescue Committee, the NAACP, and the National Immigration Law Center.\n\nThe Tahirih Justice Center has criticized that the policy of charging asylum seekers with a criminal offense, and subsequent separation of families, is contrary to Article 31 of the Refugee Convention. This Article prohibits any party to the Convention from imposing penalties on asylum seekers on account of their illegal entry or presence, provided the asylum seekers present themselves without delay to the authorities and show good cause for their illegal entry or presence. Thus according to international law, such asylum seekers are not liable to criminal prosecution for illegal entry. The United States ratified the 1967 Protocol of the Refugee Convention in 1968, and thereby obliged itself to adhere to Articles 2 through 34 of the Convention.\n\nThe director for the Americas at the International Secretariat of Amnesty International, Erika Guevara Rosas, has stated that the \"severe mental suffering that officials have intentionally inflicted on these families for coercive purposes, means that these acts meet the definitions of torture under both US and international law\".\n\nForty Democratic United States Senators sent a letter to President Trump urging him to \"rescind this unethical, ineffective, and inhumane policy and instead prioritize approaches that align with our humanitarian and American values\". In response to the policy, Senator Dianne Feinstein introduced a bill, Keep Families Together Act (S. 3036), under which the separation of a child from its parents would only be allowed under very specific conditions. By June 18, the entire Democratic caucus of 49 senators (including the two independents who caucus with the Democrats) had signed on as cosponsors.\n\nRepublicans in Congress fell into four groups on the child-separation policy:\n\nRepublican Senator Ted Cruz initially defended the policy in an June 11 interview. On June 18, despite his previous support of the policy, Cruz announced that he would introduce his own legislation, criticizing the Democrats' bill as \"returning to the failed policy of 'catch and release. Cruz stated that his bill would end the separation policy by authorizing the construction of shelters to house families, expedite asylum cases, and increase the number of federal immigration judges. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer criticized Cruz's proposal, arguing that the Republicans would include \"unacceptable additions\" and instead urged Trump to end the policy using an executive order.\n\nIn early 2018, Trump requested that state governors send National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border. In response to the family-separation policy, at least eight governors either recalled National Guard troops from the U.S.-Mexico border or declined to send them to the border. States that withdrew troops, reversed plans to send troops, or declined to send troops were New York, North Carolina, Virginia, Colorado, Delaware, and Rhode Island (which have Democratic governors) and Maryland and Massachusetts (which have Republican governors). Democratic Governor John Carney of Delaware, for example, said \"Under normal circumstances, we wouldn't hesitate to answer the call. But given what we know about the policies currently in effect at the border, I can't in good conscience send Delawareans to help with that mission.\" (Some additional states—Vermont and Oregon—had declined Trump's request before the family-separation policy had been implemented.)\n\nAmong Republican governors, some supported Trump's policy of separating families (Phil Bryant of Mississippi, Henry McMaster of South Carolina), while others opposed the policy (Pete Ricketts of Nebraska, Bruce Rauner of Illinois, John Kasich of Ohio).\n\nThe policy has also been condemned by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. High Commissioner Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein called it an \"unconscionable\" effort by a state to deter parents by abusing children.\n\nUnited Nations special rapporteurs from the Human Rights Council have also condemned the policy, and have stated that detention of children \"is punitive, severely hampers their development, and in some cases may amount to torture\". The rapporteurs have called its rescission insufficient.\n\nThe Inter-American Commission on Human Rights has formally requested additional information from the U.S. government on the location and plans for affected children.\n\nAll four living former First Ladies of the United States—Rosalynn Carter, Hillary Clinton, Laura Bush, and Michelle Obama—condemned the policy of separating children from their parents. First Lady Melania Trump's office issued a statement saying, \"[Mrs. Trump] believes we need to be a country that follows all laws, but also a country that governs with heart.\" Laura Bush wrote an op-ed in The Boston Globe condemning the use of practices \"reminiscent of the internment camps for U.S. citizens and noncitizens of Japanese descent during World War II, now considered to have been one of the most shameful episodes in U.S. history.\n\nA bipartisan group of 75 former U.S. attorneys published an open letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, calling for an end to the policy, writing that the policy inflicts \"unnecessary trauma and suffering of innocent children\" and \"is a radical departure from previous Justice Department policy\" that \"is dangerous, expensive, and inconsistent with the values of the institution in which we served\". The former U.S. attorneys also pointed out that the policy is not required by law.\n\nFox News commentator Andrew Napolitano has criticised the policy, stating that he believes that \"it is child abuse to separate children from their parents unless it's necessary to save a human life ... there's a federal statute that says you can't separate them more than 72 hours.\" News anchor Jorge Ramos declared that the policy violated both Article 1 of the United Nations Convention against Torture (UNCAT) that forbids torture, and Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) that states that a child shall not be separated from his or her parents against their will. The US has signed and ratified the UNCAT, and signed but not yet ratified the CRC.\n\nFamily separations were widely condemned in the business community, including by conservative groupings like the United States Chamber of Commerce and the Business Roundtable.\n\nOn June 20, three airlines – American Airlines, United Airlines and Frontier Airlines – each issued a statement requesting the federal government not to use their planes to transport migrant children who were taken from their parents. The previous day, a veteran flight attendant for a major airline recounted an episode in which an ICE agent initially told another flight attendant that the migrant children on their flight were members of a soccer team, but \"when pressed, the agent finally admitted that they were, indeed children who were being relocated to assigned camps\".\n\nBeginning in June, protests were held in numerous cities across the nation as plans for a larger nation-wide protests were being formulated. On June 30, a national protest organized by the newly-formed group \"Keep Families Together\" was held which drew hundreds of thousands of protesters from all 50 states to demonstrate in more than 600 towns and cities. Approximately 30,000 marchers crossing the Brooklyn Bridge in New York City, chanted, \"Immigrants built this bridge.\" Some demonstration speakers stressed the urgent need for political activism. In Atlanta Representative John Lewis spoke saying, \"We've got to get out and vote like we never voted before.\" Lin-Manuel Miranda performed for the protesters, singing a song from his musical \"Hamilton\", and commented, \"We will not stand for a country separating children from their families, and if you are silent on that issue, or you are somehow for that issue you're not getting re-elected.\"\n\nInspired by the viral photo of a crying two-year-old girl looking up at her mother, on June 16, 2018, a California couple started a fund-raising campaign on Facebook named \"Reunite an immigrant parent with their child\" with a goal of raising $1,500. Within the first few days the campaign was raising over $4,000 a minute and in a little over a week's time it had raised over $20 million, breaking a Facebook record for donations. The money will go to the Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services, or RAICES, and provide legal aid for immigrant parents who have been arrested at the border.\n\nThe photograph was taken by professional photographer, John Moore, just after the mother was asked to set her child down to be body-searched before boarding the Border Patrol van and the little girl began to cry. The mother is from Honduras and had been traveling for a month. The photo raised controversy after the father of the child said in an interview that the mother and daughter were now being detained together in McAllen, Texas. This has caused many in Trump's administration to rally against \"fake news\" with White House Spokeswoman Sarah Sanders tweeting that the Democrats and media \"exploited this photo of a little girl to push their own agenda\".\n\nThe family-separation policy is unpopular among Americans, as shown by four polls; on average, two-thirds of Americans oppose the policy. There is a strong partisan divide; the average of polls showed that Democrats are overwhelmingly opposed to the policy (8% support, 87% oppose, 5% other) while a plurality of Republicans favor it (49% support, 35% oppose, 16% other). Trump's approval rating fell to 41 percent, with a 55 percent disapproval rating according to a Gallup poll following increased public awareness of the policy.\n\nAccording to a report by Gabriel Sherman, the policy caused \"chaos\" and infighting among the White House staff and advisers. Sarah Huckabee Sanders was \"frustrated\" according to one of her friends. On the other hand, according to one White House adviser, Stephen Miller \"actually enjoys seeing those pictures at the border\", referring to the photographs of children separated from their parents.\n\nWhite House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Senator Chuck Grassley and House Speaker Paul Ryan have asserted that the Trump administration are required to separate migrant families due to the 1997 \"Flores\" settlement, which requires that unaccompanied minors be released to their parents or relatives, and if a relative cannot be found then a government agency can appoint an appropriate guardian for the child. Trump administration officials also cited the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (TVPRA), a 2008 anti-human trafficking statute, as a justification for the policy. Neither the \"Flores\" settlement nor the TVPRA, however, require or recommend family separations.\n\nFollowing President Trump's executive order ending family separation David French criticized the Democrat's position saying, \"those of us with a trace of historical memory know that the Trump administration is merely asking the courts and Congress to adopt the Obama administration’s legal position.[...]But despite this victory, Democrats are still furious. It’s not enough to stop child separation. Now, they want to prevent family detention entirely.\"\n\nConservative commentator Ann Coulter on June 17 dismissed immigrant children as \"child actors weeping and crying\" and urged Trump not to \"fall for it\". Fox News television host Laura Ingraham on June 18 described the facilities where migrant children were housed as \"essentially summer camps\". She described criticism of the immigration policies as \"faux liberal outrage\". Also on June 18, conservative commentator and author Ben Shapiro pointed to the 2016 Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling in \"Flores v. Lynch\", which he said \"meant that the government either had to release whole families, or that the government had to separate parents from children\".\n\n\"Fox & Friends\" co-host Brian Kilmeade defended Trump's family separation policy, arguing that migrant children are being treated as though they are more important than \"people in our country who pay taxes and have needs as well.\" He states, \"Like it or not, these aren't our kids. Show them compassion, but it's not like [Trump is] doing this to the people of Idaho or Texas. These are people from another country.\"\n\nOn June 19, 2018, a fact checker for \"The Washington Post\" critiqued a number of statements by Trump and members of his administration, characterizing them as \"Orwellian stuff\" and designating them as Four Pinocchios — the Post's highest rating of falsehood. The Trump administration had offered at least 14 contradictory statements about its policy, including contradictions about whether it was a Justice Department policy, whether separations are a deterrent, whether there was a prepared process to separate families, and whether separations are required by law. Trump has also said that he could not reverse his administration's policy via executive order, while later writing an executive order to reverse the policy.\n\nPresident Trump said in response to the situation: \"I hate to see separation of parents and children ... I hate the children being taken away.\" Trump has blamed the Democrats for \"that law\" (also calling it \"their law\" and \"the horrible law\") on a number of occasions despite there being no law to mandate the separation of migrant parents and children. The Trump administration's own \"zero tolerance\" policy announced in April 6, 2018, is responsible for spurring the separations. Trump also said he \"certainly wouldn't sign the more moderate\" immigration bill proposed by leaders of the House of Representatives with input from moderate Republicans and the White House.\n\nOn June 20, 2018, Trump announced that he would sign an executive order to end family separations, saying \"We're going to keep families together but we still have to maintain toughness or our country will be overrun by people, by crime.\" He did so later the same day.\n\nOn June 22, 2018, the President sent a tweet recommending Republicans to wait until after the November midterm elections to pass immigration legislation. Trump continued to attempt to rally support, by hosting \"Angel Families\" at the White House on June 23; families whose loved ones had been killed by illegal immigrants. At the rally he pointed out that these families were \"American citizens permanently separated from their loved ones\". A fact check of Trump's statement noted that illegal immigrants are 25% less likely than native-born Americans, to commit homicide, and are 11.5% less likely to commit sexual assault than native-born Americans. The fact check also reported on a study which found that when more illegal immigrants move into a neighborhood, violent crime goes down.\n\nDuring a June 18, 2018, White House press conference, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen stated that during the first five months of fiscal 2018, there was a \"314% increase in adults showing up with kids [posing as] a family unit. Those are traffickers, those are smugglers, that is MS-13, those are criminals, those are abusers.\" Using DHS data, analysis by \"The Washington Post\" found that such groups constituted 0.61% of \"family units\" apprehended at the border during that period.\n\nIn the same press conference she stated \"We now care for them... We have high standards. We give them meals. We give them education. We give them medical care. There's videos, there's TVs...\" and stated when asked about family separation that a \"vast majority\" of children held are unaccompanied minors. On June 19, 2018, Nielsen was heckled by protesters shouting \"Shame! Shame! ... If kids don't eat in peace, you don't eat in peace,\" as she ate in a Mexican restaurant.\n\nFollowing Christian opposition to the policy, Sessions controversially defended it by citing the thirteenth chapter of the Epistle to the Romans in the New Testament, saying \"I would cite you to the Apostle Paul and his clear and wise command in Romans 13, to obey the laws of the government because God has ordained them for the purpose of order.\" Several commentators have noted that before the Civil War, Romans 13 was traditionally used by advocates of slavery to justify it, and to attack abolitionists.\n\nOn June 19, Sessions disputed claims by former CIA Director Michael Hayden that the separation of the immigrant families at the border was similar to what happened at the Auschwitz concentration camp. During the interview he said that the comparisons were inaccurate as the Nazis \"were keeping the Jews from leaving the country\". In the same interview, he stated that if the parents are deported the children return with them, but if the parents claim asylum and stay the children are put into the custody of Department of Health and Human Services.\n\nOn June 20, 2018, President Trump signed Executive Order 13841, titled \"Affording Congress an Opportunity to Address Family Separation\", that restricts family separation but maintains many of the key components of the Administration's immigration policy. The Order instructs the Department of Homeland Security to maintain custody of parents and children jointly, \"to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations\". It also instructs the Justice Department to attempt to overturn the Flores Agreement, which limited the time for holding children and families with children to 20 days, allowing children to be detained indefinitely. The order directs other agencies, including the Pentagon to create or procure spaces to house the family units, however the family unit will not be maintained if there is fear for the child's welfare.\n\nAt the signing ceremony, Trump said, \"We're going to have strong, very strong borders but we are going to keep the families together. I didn't like the sight or the feeling of families being separated.\" Trump emphasised that families would be kept together, yet zero tolerance would continue.\n\nAt least two senior aides said that Republican Party leadership had no formal notice from the White House that there was planned executive action. The Chief Federal Public Defender in Southern Texas, Marjorie Meyers said that her official initially received no information about how the order would play out.\n\nFollowing the issue of the Executive Order, the Department of Health and Human Services stated that the status of children already detained would not be affected by the Executive Order, and that they would not be immediately reunited with their families. However, it was later reported that the statement by Kenneth Wolfe, a spokesman for the Administration for Children and Families, that \"there will be no grandfathering of existing cases\" was based on incorrect information and no decision had been made.\n\nA fact sheet on \"Zero-Tolerance Prosecution and Family Reunification\" that was released by the Department of Health and Human Services, stated that a parent may request that their child be deported with them. However, the agency said that in the past many parents had elected to be deported without their children.\n\nOn June 26, Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar testified that 2,047 children continued to be held in HHS-contracted facilities. He said that only parents who are deported or who are granted entry to the United States could be reunited with their children. He further testified that the Department would only reunite children with their detained parents if Congress passed legislation lifting the 20-day limit on family detention required under the Flores settlement. Azar also implied that around 250 children formerly in HHS custody had been reunited with family members in the United States, rather with those they had accompanied across the border.\n\nOn June 28, a bill was passed at the initiative of Senator Tom Udall that requires HHS to make information about migrant children in its care publicly available. This obligation includes weekly public updates on its website of the number of children who have been reunited with separated family members, as well as monthly publication of the information on migrant children that the HHS makes available to the United States Senate Committee on Appropriations under the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (Labor-HHS) Appropriations Bill.\n\nOn June 22, the office of U.S. Attorney John Bash stated that the zero tolerance policy was still in effect. He spoke of \"a necessary transition\" during which those who were charged would no longer be transferred to the custody of US Marshals but would stay in the custody of the DHS together with their children. The office confirmed that several cases that had been pending when the executive order had been issued were dismissed as part of that transition.\n\nParents and children crossing the border illegally were intended to have the same A-file number given to them by immigration officials. Family reunification was complicated by the fact that in many cases families were separated before an A-file number was given, resulting in parents and children receiving different numbers which makes it more difficult to reunite them afterwards. Days after the formal end of the policy, authorities still were not able to tell the separated children how their parents were doing, or where their parents were.\n\nDHS and HHS stated that they \"have a process established to ensure that family members know the location of their children and have regular communication after separation to ensure that those adults who are subject to removal are reunited with their children for the purposes of removal\", and that ICE had \"implemented an identification mechanism to ensure on-going tracking of linked family members throughout the detention and removal process\". The Port Isabel Service Processing Center was intended to become the primary family reunification and removal center for adults who were in the custody of the ICE. The document did not set out any timeline for reuniting the remaining children that had been separated from their families due to the policy.\n\nThe DHS and HHS documents stated that adults who had been processed for removal would have the choice of whether or not their child would accompany them. CNN reported that adult detainees were being offered the opportunity to see their children if they agreed to sign voluntary departure orders, waiving their right to go before a judge. Immigration advocates criticized the policy; Attorney Efrén Olivares of the Texas Civil Rights Project said, \"We have no reason to believe that (voluntary deportation) is the fastest way for parents to be reunited with their children. Putting them in that position is not a voluntary (deportation); it's being obtained under duress.\"\n\nHHS also stated that ICE officials had posted notices in all of its facilities advising detained parents who were trying to find or communicate with their children to call a hotline, staffed from 8 AM to 8 PM, Monday through Friday. Further according to ICE, the parents can also contact the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) National Call Center, to determine if the child is in custody of HHS. ORR is able to locate every child within seconds, but has limited access to information about whether a child arrived at the border with an adult.\n\nThe June 20 Executive Order instructs that, \"The Secretary of Defense shall take all legally available measures to provide to the Secretary, upon request, any existing facilities available for the housing and care of alien families, and shall construct such facilities if necessary and consistent with law.\" On June 21, the Department of Health and Human Services requested facilities to house migrant children. Pentagon spokesmen and a memorandum sent to Congress confirmed that the Department of Defense was preparing facilities at four military bases in Texas and Arkansas—Fort Bliss, Dyess Air Force Base, Goodfellow Air Force Base, and Little Rock Air Force Base—to house 20,000 \"unaccompanied alien children\". On June 25, the Associated Press reported that Fort Bliss and Goodfellow Air Force Base had been chosen, and that one will house unaccompanied migrant children, while the other will house migrant families.\n\nOn June 22, 2018, \"Time\" Magazine reported the contents of an internal Navy planning memorandum that proposed constructing \"tent cities\" to house migrants in \"temporary and austere\" facilities at Navy Outlying Field Wolf in Orange Beach, Alabama, Navy Outlying Field Silverhill, and two abandoned airfields near Mobile, Alabama. The memorandum also proposes that up to 47,000 people could be house at both the former Concord Naval Weapons Station in northern California and Camp Pendleton in southern California. These would be built by the Navy and operated by the Department of Health and Human Services.\n\nOn June 21, 2018, \"The Washington Post\" reported that Customs and Border Protection had suspended criminal referrals for parents arriving across the border with their children. At the time, Justice Department officials said the zero tolerance policy remained in force and they would continue to process all adults for illegal entry.\n\nOn June 25, U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAleenan announced a temporary suspension of detaining migrant adults who traveled with children. In this context, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders explained that the government was \"out of resources\" and could not hold all the undocumented families coming across the US-Mexico border.\n\nThree agencies were involved in processing immigrant families: Customs and Border Patrol, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Refugee Resettlement. These agencies did not have a shared database for tracking migrant families, complied inaccurate summary data on the separation program, failed to consistently connect family members with their detained loved ones, and provided inaccurate information to family members, according to the DHS Inspector General's report. On June 23, DHS falsely claimed it and HHS had a \"central database\" for tracking migrants; the Department's Inspector General \"found no evidence that such a database exists.\"\n\nIn early July, ORR staff were still missing instructions on how to proceed in order to reunite the separated children with their parents. The deadline for reuniting children under five years of age with their parents was July 10, for all others it was July 26. After the court order, the HHS manually reviewed all case files of the approximately 11,800 children in their custody to determine whether HHS missed any who had been separated from adults at the border. Matters were further complicated by the fact that parents may have been in different situations: released, still detained, or deported.\n\nThe usual procedure for the release of a child to a sponsor involves a background check. Sponsors must submit documentation proof that they are legitimate relatives and financially capable. They also have to pay for travel costs, in some cases thousands of US dollars for air fares. Since June 2018, the procedure also involves the fingerprinting of every adult in a potential sponsor's household. The procedure is said to be intended to avoid the risk of releasing children to unauthorized persons or child traffickers. Representatives of plaintiffs argue that the usual procedure is too slow for the release of a child to their parent.\n\nCNN reported that DNA testing was performed to expedite parental verification and ensure reunification with verified parents, without details being reported as to whether consent has been asked. Human rights advocates have criticized that migrant children, some as young as two months old, cannot give their consent to DNA testing. Medical experts have recommended to use DNA testing only as a last resort. Thomas H. Murray, president emeritus of The Hastings Center, emphasizes the danger to social ties in the family given that \"the risk misattributed fatherhood, and even motherhood, is more common than most people realize\".\n\nAzar declared on July 5 that the government would meet the July 10 deadline for uniting children under five years of age with their parents, and confirmed that DNA testing was being used to speed up matching parents and children. He also stated that the Department of Homeland Security was relocating parents of children under 5 years old to detention facilities close to their children. In advance of the deadline of July 26 that had been set for reunification of minors of five years of age or older, the administration stated on July 16 that it had completed reunifying \"all eligible children under five\", and that families with older children were being reunited on a rolling basis. On July 25, ACLU filed a submission setting out that some of the parents had been misled to relinquish their right to reunite with their children.\n\nOn July 26, the Trump administration said that 1,442 children had been reunited with their parents while 711 remained in government shelters because their cases are still under review, their parents have criminal records, or their parents are no longer in the United States. Officials stated that 431 parents of those children had already been deported without their children. Officials said they will work with the court to return the remaining children, including the children whose parents have been deported. The most recent data, current as of August 20, shows that 528 of the children — about a fifth — have still not been reunited with their parents.\n\nIn September 2018, the Department of Justice changed their handling of asylum claims of asylum seekers who had undergone family separation. The change, which is said to give about 1,000 persons a second chance to claim asylum, is the result of a negotiation covering three lawsuits that had been filed against the government over the family-separation policy.\n\n\nProtests:\n"}
{"id": "4946706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4946706", "title": "Vatndalsvatnet", "text": "Vatndalsvatnet\n\nVatndalsvatnet or Vatnedalsvatnet is a lake in the municipality of Bykle in Aust-Agder county, Norway. The lake lies about west of the village of Berdalen and the river Otra. The nearby lakes Ormsavatnet and Store Urevatn flow into the lake through dams and canals. The lake Vatndalsvatnet also has a dam on it and the water flows out of the lake from the dam into the Otra river. The lake is located in the central part of Bykle, about halfway between the villages of Hovden and Bykle. The mountains Snjoheinuten and Kvervetjønnuten both lie on the south side of the lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "7443253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7443253", "title": "Venereology", "text": "Venereology\n\nVenereology is a branch of medicine that is concerned with the study and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases. The name derives from Roman goddess Venus, associated with love, beauty and fertility. A physician specializing in venereology is called a \"venereologist\". In many areas of the world, the specialty is usually combined with dermatology.\n\nThe venereal diseases include bacterial, viral, fungal, and parasitic infections. Some of the important diseases are HIV infection, syphilis, gonorrhea, candidiasis, herpes simplex, human papillomavirus infection, and genital scabies. Other sexually transmitted infections studied in the field include chancroid, lymphogranuloma venereum, granuloma inguinale, hepatitis B, and cytomegalovirus infection.\n\nIn India, formal training of venerologists started in 1910, prompting microscopy and serology to come into general use throughout the Empire. Before this, many cases of early syphilis were either diagnosed as chancroid or missed altogether. To come to a diagnosis, doubtful atypical cases were at times left untreated to see whether or not they developed secondary syphilis. Today, an MD in venereology is a 2 to 3-year long postgraduate course in medicine. The minimum eligibility is the successful completion of any of MBBS, DMS, BHMS, and BDS, etc degrees. Major subjects of study that form part of the program are immunology of dermatological diseases, cellular and molecular inflammation, skin genetics, skin structure and development of skin, and basic reactions of skin, repair, and carcinogenesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "17089669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17089669", "title": "Water privatization in Guayaquil", "text": "Water privatization in Guayaquil\n\nWater privatization in Guayaquil began with the decision taken in 1995 to privatize drinking water supply and sewerage in Guayaquil, the largest city and economic capital of Ecuador, through a concession contract. In preparation for privatization, the previously separate water and sewer utilities were merged into a single utility in 1996. The new utility began a modernization process and began to improve its performance. In parallel, the international bidding for the concession was prepared by Banque Paribas as the international advisor and was supported by the Inter-American Development Bank. The latter made a loan that was signed in October 1997 conditional upon the decision to award a concession. The 30-year concession agreement between the city government and the private company Interagua was signed in 2001. The contract was \"poor-friendly\", requiring the private company to keep tariffs constant for the first five years and to connect new users in poor areas \"at no cost\". At the same time, the former municipal water and sewer utility ECAPAG became the regulatory agency for the new private utility. Interagua is a consortium led by the Spanish company Proactiva Medio Ambiente, which in turn is supported by the Spanish construction firm FCC and the French water company Veolia Environnement. In 2012 the regulator ECAPAG was transformed into the Municipal Public Drinking Water and Sanitation Company of Guayaquil in what may be a first step towards the municipalization of the concession.\n\nThe investments undertaken by the concessionaire are financed through retained earnings, the municipality and the State Bank of Ecuador. The government funds are deposited into a trust fund that the concessionnaire can only access under certain conditions. For the 2011-2016 period investments of US$ 380 million are expected to be financed by the concessionnaire (US$ 107.5 million), the municipality and the State Bank of Ecuador (US$ 150 million) as well as the national government and the proceedings of a tax called Special Improvement Contributions (Contribucion Especial de Mejoriamiento, CEM).\n\nBefore the concession, 50% of the city had only 10 hours service per day. In parts of the city water was supplied only 2 to 4 hours per day, often at low pressure. Commercial and physical losses in water distribution, technically called non-revenue water, stood at a staggering 79 percent. Only 46 percent of water bills were actually collected. And only 26 percent of all connections were metered.\n\nDuring its first five years the company brought 24 hours service to all the city and served an additional 55,000 families, mostly low income in the southern part of the city. Access to water supply increased from 64 percent in 2000 to 72 percent in 2003, and access to sewerage has grown from 46 percent to 55 percent during the same period. According to an article written by Interagua for public relations all the \"formally developed areas\" of the city had access to piped water at \"reasonable pressure\" in 2012. However, according to Interagua's own annual report 2009-2010, only an estimated 82 percent of the population (almost 2 million out of a population of 2.43 million) had access to piped water and 67 percent had access to sewerage in July 2010. In 10 years access to piped water supply thus increased from 64 to 82 percent. Customers who gained access to piped water supply were able to consume twice as much water while paying one fifth of what they paid before, when they had bought it from vendors distributing it in tankers. Tankers charged US$ 3.50 per cubic meter, while Interagua charges only 34 cents per cubic meter for the first 15 cubic meters per month.\n\nThe concessionaire also increased billing efficiency - the share of bills issued that are paid - to about 75 percent by 2003. The number of staff was reduced by 43 percent between 2001 and 2003. This brought the number of staff per 1,000 connections down to less than 3, a level that is consistent with international good practice for an efficient utility.\n\nSome of the remaining challenges are fluctuating water pressure and high levels of non-revenue water, consisting of both physical and commercial water losses. This is shown by the reports of the independent technical auditor who reviews annually the performance of Interagua. While the report confirmed that in 2010 at least 95 percent of all customers received water at a pressure above the minimum pressure, defined as 5 meters of water column (0.5 bar) in the center of the city and 8 meters of water column (0.8 bar) in the North of the city, the report contained no data about pressure variations and maximal pressure. Interagua wants to achieve constant pressure throughout its service area by 2015 or 2016. In 2010 the level of non-revenue water was 62 percent. This level is much higher than the average in Colombia (49 percent) or in Peru (44 percent).\n\nThere have been complaints of poor water quality in marginal communities. Residents of Guasmo Sur complained of turbid, foul smelling water that is not fit for consumption and residents of Suburbio Oeste have struggled through both a hepatitis outbreak and periodic issues of decreased chlorine content/increased fecal content in the samples from their sector in 2004.\n\nA 2006 study conducted for the Inter-American Development Bank came to the conclusion that compared to Quito, which is served by a publicly managed water utility, water quality was worse in Guayaquil, the poor had less access to piped water and water tariffs were higher. In terms of trends, the study concluded that between 1995 and 2005 \"poor homes decreased their likelihood of having access to water in Guayaquil relative to Quito\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25359083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25359083", "title": "Yamal cuisine", "text": "Yamal cuisine\n\nTraditional Yamal cuisine is an important part of national culture of Nenets, Khanty and Komi. Yamal is a hunting and fishing land so many dishes include meat, fowl and fish. Berries and mushrooms are also abundant; this accounts for the wealth of \"gifts of the forests\" on the Yamal table. Nowadays, Yamal cuisine is renowned for diverse delicacies of Russian cuisine. Yamal hosts enjoy treating their guests with traditional Yamal cuisine and have hot tea which came to Yamal cuisine from Russia. Tea has become the national Yamal beverage, drunk to warm and soothe. Yamal is in northern Russia with frigid winters, so its cuisine should be nourishing to give the people energy to survive during the long winter time. The essential component of Yamal cuisine is warm and hot dishes. Fresh fruits and vegetables are rarely used as they must be imported, as they are not grown in the tundra. The Yamal cuisine is associated with malosol and stroganina. Yamal cuisine has absorbed techniques from other regions. Yamal cuisine is based on reindeer meat and fish of the Yamal rivers, enriched with mushrooms and bread.\n\nThe most known dishes of Yamal cuisine are: \nFish Soup made from burbot), Malosol, Bread on the Selkup, Stroganina (Sliced Fish), Chopsy Shomoh, Warka, Sliced meat, Preserves of vendace, Kulebyaka (pie with fish), Aibat-nyarhul (raw fish).\n\nFish soup mostly is served as the first course at dinner. It is the typical Yamal dish. Fish Soup is prepared from the fish heads in the cauldron. Fish is cut up and cut into pieces and immersed in cold water. When boiling, the cauldron is moved aside to slow fire and skimmed when necessary. It should be brewed to a bluish-gray color and served at once. Usually it is drunk with a mug.\n\nMalosol comes from Muksun. The key secret to this dish is cutting the fish into very delicate slices very fast in order that the fish remains slightly frozen. It is prepared from just caught muksun. Fish are gutted and cleaned, and liberally sprinkled with salt then held for 3-4 hours.\n\n\"Bread is head for everything\" is a saying of Russians and Selkups. It symbolizes hospitality of the house. Bread of Selkup is mentioned from the 8th-9th centuries. The bread is baked not in an oven as Russians do although the initial stages are the same. Flour is mixed with water and salt. Soda is used instead of yeast to raise the dough and it is baked in very hot sand on the fire.\n\nYamal cuisine has four principal types of fish dishes: “as it is”, boiled, baked and smoked. Smoked fish is very popular on the table nowadays. Hot smoked fish is prepared in the towns and villages, although it is not the national dish. Camp cooking uses an aluminum saucepan filled with smoldering sawdust, topped with a wire grid. A low heat is all that is needed to give the fish a golden hue, indicating doneness.\n\nStroganina have always been a pride of Yamal. It is a delicacy and a simple food which is prepared from frozen white salmon. Strips of skin are cut from the back and abdomen from tail to head. Vertical incisions are made in the flesh. The fish is placed head down on a hard surface and skinned. With sostragivaetsya, the fish is in thin slices or layers, depending on whether male or female fish are used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44502784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44502784", "title": "Yentl Syndrome", "text": "Yentl Syndrome\n\nThe Yentl Syndrome is the different course of action that heart attacks usually follow for women than for men. This is a problem because much of medical research has focused primarily on symptoms of male heart attacks, and many women have died due to misdiagnosis because their symptoms present differently. The name is taken from the 1983 film \"Yentl\" starring Barbra Streisand in which her character plays the role of a male in order to receive the education she desires. The phrase was coined in a 1991 academic paper by Dr. Bernadine Healy titled \"The Yentl syndrome.\"\n\n\n"}
