{"id": "32092328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32092328", "title": "(163364) 2002 OD20", "text": "(163364) 2002 OD20\n\nIt was scheduled to be observed by Goldstone radar in May 2013. It has a well determined orbit and will make a close approach to Earth on 23 May 2013, at a distance of . It is due to make another close pass on 23 May 2131, coming as close as 0.0248 AU. It was discovered on 21 July 2002 by astronomers of the Near-Earth Asteroid Tracking survey at Palomar Observatory in California. With an absolute magnitude of 18.8, the diameter is estimated to between 460 and 1030 meters.\n"}
{"id": "37005227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37005227", "title": "2012 in arthropod paleontology", "text": "2012 in arthropod paleontology\n\nThis list of fossil arthropods described in 2012 is a list of new taxa of trilobites, fossil insects, crustaceans, arachnids and other fossil arthropods of every kind that have been described during the year 2012. The list only includes taxa at the level of genus or species.\n"}
{"id": "54141655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54141655", "title": "2017 BS5", "text": "2017 BS5\n\nIn astronomy of the solar system, is a sub-kilometer asteroid, classified as near-Earth object that belongs to the Apollo group. It measures approximately 40–90 meters. During a close approach to Earth, it was first observed 25 January 2017, by the ATLAS survey at Haleakala Observatory, Hawaii, United States.\n\n has a low-eccentricity orbit with a semi-major axis only slightly larger than that of Earth. It orbits the Sun at a distance of 1.008–1.023 AU once every 1.02 years (374 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.01 and an inclination of 11° with respect to the ecliptic. It has an Earth minimum orbital intersection distance of , which corresponds to 2.7 lunar distances. The body is too small to be classified as a potentially hazardous asteroid.\n\nOn 23 July 2017, it passed by within 3.15 lunar distances. Seen from the Earth it passed straight north to south from Draco south into Scorpio. With its 1.023 year orbit it has a synodic period of 43 years with the earth, so it will flyby the Earth every 43 years or so. JPL Small-Body Database's simulator show the previous flyby in July 1973 and next one will be in July 2061.\n\n"}
{"id": "415224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415224", "title": "Afzelia", "text": "Afzelia\n\nAfzelia is a genus in family Fabaceae (legumes). The thirteen species all are trees, native to tropical Africa or Asia.\n\n\"Afzelia\" species are used primarily for wood, though some species also have medicinal uses. The timber is most commonly traded under the collective name \"doussie\", as well as under name \"afzelia\". One of the common names is also \"pod mahogany\", adding to the confusion surrounding the name mahogany.\n\nThe seeds are red and black and are used as beads.\n\nThe wood is often used as the surface material for outdoor velodromes.\n\nThe highly figured wood of the Asian species, \"Afzelia xylocarpa\", is sold as Afzelia xylay. The seeds and bark of this species are used as medicine.\n\nThe dense and wavy wood of an \"Afzelia africana\" is used in ship-building.\n\n"}
{"id": "9974110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9974110", "title": "Ahmed Diane Semega", "text": "Ahmed Diane Semega\n\nAhmed Diane Semega is a Malian politician. He is the former Minister of Mines, Energy and Water, and the current Minister of Infrastructure and Transport.\n"}
{"id": "32244084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32244084", "title": "Antidynamo theorem", "text": "Antidynamo theorem\n\nIn physics and in particular in the theory of magnetism, an antidynamo theorem is one of several results that restrict the type of magnetic fields that may be produced by dynamo action. \n\nOne notable example is Thomas Cowling's antidynamo theorem which states that no axisymmetric magnetic field can be maintained through a self-sustaining dynamo action by an axially symmetric current.\n\nApart from the Earth's magnetic field, some other bodies such as Jupiter and Saturn, and the Sun have significant magnetic fields whose major component is a dipole, an axisymmetric magnetic field. These magnetic fields are self-sustained through fluid motion in the Sun or planets, with the necessary non symmetry for the planets deriving from the Coriolis force caused by their rapid rotation, and one cause of non-symmetry for the Sun being its differential rotation. The magnetic fields of planets with slow rotation periods and/or solid cores, such as Mercury, Venus and Mars, have dissipated to almost nothing by comparison.\n\nThe impact of the known anti-dynamo theorems is that successful dynamos do not possess a high degree of symmetry.\n\n"}
{"id": "35789206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35789206", "title": "Cell CANARY", "text": "Cell CANARY\n\nCell CANARY (Cellular Analysis and Notification of Antigen Risks and Yields) is a recent technology that uses genetically engineered B cells to identify pathogens. Existing pathogen detection technologies include the Integrated Biological Detection System and the Joint Chemical Agent Detector.\n\nIn 2007, Benjamin Shapiro, Pamela Abshire, Elisabeth Smela, and Denis Wirtz were granted a patent entitled “Cell Canaries for Biochemical Pathogen Detection. They have successfully manipulated the sensors so that they are sensitive to exposure of certain dangers, such as explosive materials or biological pathogens. What sets CANARY apart from the other methods is that the system is quicker and has a lower number of false readings.\nExisting pathogen detection methods required that a sample be packaged and sent to a lab where techniques such as mass spectrometry and Polymerase Chain Reaction ultimately provided a blueprint of the nucleotide sequences present in a sample. The pathogen was then determined based on a database of pathogen nucleotides on file. This often resulted in a large amount of false positives and false negatives due to the non-specific nature of nucleotide binding. These techniques also required time that is not feasible in imminent situations.\n\nCell CANARY is one of the newest, fastest, and most viable approaches to pathogen detection in a sample. It has the ability to detect pathogens in a variety of media, both liquid and air, at a fraction of the concentration that older methods required to produce a viable signal. CANARY uses the B cell, a form of white blood cell that forms the basis for natural human defense. An array of these b-cells is attached to a chip. Genes for producing antibodies are naturally on in these b-cells, which allow antibodies to coat the exterior surface of the cells. The genes for coding antibodies are then up-regulated in these cells, which allows for greater antibody production and therefore more of the cell surface to be coated in antibodies.\n\nThis engineering principle allows lower concentrations of antigen to be detected by the cells. Antigens can then bind to the antibodies, resulting in a few naturally occurring B-cell reactions. At the final step of these reactions, Ca2+ ions are released, and in the presence of aequorin, photons are emitted. Aequorin is a photoprotein that can be extracted from marine organisms such as luminescent fish. The emitted photons can then be read by a chip, on which the array of modified B cells have been attached to, ultimately providing a readout of the pathogen(s) present.\n\nA unique set of responses is exhibited after exposure to each individual pathogen. Therefore, cells will react differently to the introduction of a specific pathogen, the specific nature in which the “canary” cells respond to the pathogen indicates the unique identity of the pathogen that has been introduced. The more responses of a cell to a pathogen that are measured the more precisely the pathogen can be identified. Finally, after determining the presence and identity of the pathogen, all infected people can be effectively treated.\n\nThere still need improvements on specific aspects of this complicated process. Some of the challenges include \"building circuits that can interact with the cells and transmit alerts about their condition\", developing technology to control the position of the cells on the chip, keeping the cells viable once on the chip and creating a living environment that supports the cells but protects the sensitive parts of the sensor.\nThe implications of a faster pathogen detection technology are widespread. A patient would be able to visit a medical professional, provide a sample of blood or urine, and get an analysis within minutes. No longer would the patient and doctor have to wait on lab results to determine the presence of foreign bodies. The military would be able to test air samples and water samples to discover threats immediately before dispatching. High profile and even regular office buildings could have these sensors in every corridor to proactively hunt out air-borne pathogens, leaving enough time for evacuation. This goes back to the idea of “canary in a coal mine”, where the B cells act as the canary to sniff out danger ahead of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "25669253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25669253", "title": "Centre for the Study of the Causes of the War", "text": "Centre for the Study of the Causes of the War\n\nThe Centre for the Study of the Causes of the War (in German: Zentralstelle zur Erforschung der Kriegsursachen) was a pseudo-historical think-tank based in Berlin, funded by the German government, whose sole purpose was to disseminate the official government position that Germany was the victim of Allied aggression in 1914, and hence the alleged moral invalidity of the Versailles Treaty. Of the many provisions in the treaty, Article 231 required Germany to accept responsibility for the damages it caused during the war and, under the terms of articles 232–248, to disarm, make substantial territorial concessions and pay reparations to some of the victorious countries. Although neither the Entente powers at the time nor subsequent historical consensus attached the idea of war guilt to these articles, Germany viewed them as a humiliation and as being forced to accept full responsibility for causing the war.\n\nThe Centre was founded in 1921 under a Swiss doctor, Ernst von Sauerbeck, and from 1923 headed by a former \"völkisch\" activist, Major Alfred von Wegerer.\n\nThe Centre was part of an official campaign by the Weimar Republic and then the Third Reich to counter Allied charges of German war guilt, and suggest consequences. German Governments sought to organise materials from 1914 onwards to counter questions on origins of the war. The key elements of German effort were War Guilt Section of Foreign Ministry (Kriegsschuldreferat), Working Committee of German Associations (\"\"), the Centre for the Study of the Causes of the War (\"Zentralstelle zur Erforschung der Kriegschuldfrage\") and a Parliamentary Committee of Enquiry (\"Untersuchungsausschuss\"), and used sympathetic writers and translators, and the watering down of the more-controversial memoirs. The \"Kriegsschuldreferat\" was established in the Foreign Ministry in Dec-1918-Jan-1919 under von Bülow (\"ardent nationalist and zealous bureaucrat\"). Its primary task was to prepare the case before the Versailles Conference against the Allied charge that Germany and Austria-Hungary were solely responsible for the war. Von Bülow instructed Hans Freytag, the later head of the Kriegsschuldreferat, to lock up all documents \"in case the entente should demand them\" 'as they apparently had the right to do under article 230 of the Versailles Treaty', so \"they could be got out of the way easily\". Documents were divided into \"defence\" and \"offence\".\n\nOn 7 May 1919, the Allies presented the proposed accord, and on 28 May 1919 Germany published \"Deutsches Weissbuch\" claiming that Germany had conducted a defensive war. On 16 June 1919, Georges Clemenceau, the French president, presented an ultimatum to Germany—if it did not accept the peace treaty, war would recommence—and on 28 June 1919 Germany accepted the Versailles Treaty. The immediate need to refute war guilt was replaced by a long-term project agreed by Cabinet on 21 July 1919 to shift attention from war guilt to a debate about European affairs since 1870, helped by Dutch and British papers excerpting from Kautsky on 10 December 1919. This project had three editors: Mendelssohn-Bartoldy, Lepsius, and Thimme (Director and \"special advisor\"; some called him spin-doctor) to evaluate public reaction. The German Foreign Ministry directed the editors on how and what to publish and exercised a special veto. The result was 40 volumes of Die Grosse Politik der Europäischen Kabinette 1922-7, which became the standard work of reference for the German view of World War I. After publication, the Foreign Ministry decided that no further documents were to be made available.\n\nTo disseminate the governments official position, several \"independent\" bureaux and journals were established, and many writers were paid for articles of a refutational nature. Besides a wide range of effort to promote its position, works of sympathetic writers were translated into a number of languages and disseminated at government expense, and visits by such writers were also paid for. As part of this effort, the Centre for the Study of the Causes of the War (Zentralstelle zur Erforschung der Kriegschuldfrage (ZEK)) was founded in 1921 under a Swiss doctor, Ernst von Sauerbeck, and from 1923 under Alfred von Wegerer.\n\nHarry Elmer Barnes, an American, who between World War I and World War II was a well-known anti-war writer, a leader in the historical revisionism movement and later to become a Holocaust denier, and from 1924 onwards worked closely with Centre for the Study of the Causes of the War. The Centre provided Barnes with research material, made funds available to him, translated his writings into other languages, and funded his trip to Germany in 1926. During Barnes's 1926 trip to Germany he received a most friendly welcome for his efforts as Barnes described it in \"seeking to clear Germany of the dishonour and fraud of the war-guilt clause of the Treaty of Versailles\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31293027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31293027", "title": "Charles Catton the younger", "text": "Charles Catton the younger\n\nCharles Catton the younger (30 December 1756 – 24 April 1819) was an English slave owner, topographical artist, illustrator and theatrical scene-painter.\n\nCatton, was born in London, the son of Charles Catton the elder. He received art tuition from his father and also studied at the Royal Academy schools. He travelled extensively through England and Scotland, making sketches, some of which were afterwards engraved and published. He was known as a scene-painter for the theatre, and also as a topographical artist.\n\nAt the Royal Academy in 1775 he exhibited a \"View of London from Blackfriars Bridge\", and one of \"Westminster from Westminster Bridge\". In 1793, he showed designs, along with fellow artist E A Burney, for John Gay's \"Fables\", which were subsequently published. At the Royal Academy from 1776 to 1800 he exhibited 37 works in total. \nIn the latter, he was recorded as living in Purley. \nFrom 1781 to 1794, he was a scene painter at Covent Garden.\nIn 1788 he published an early book of coloured aquatints, \"Animals Drawn from Nature and Engraved in Aqua-tinta\". The book included images and descriptions, written and etched by Catton, of thirty-six animals from around the world.\n\nHe emigrated to America in 1804 and settled in a farm on the River Hudson with his two daughters and a son. There he lived until his death, painting occasionally. He is said to have \"acquired wealth\"' through his painting. He was also a slave owner. In 1815, he murdered his slave, Robert, who was engaged in a relationship with Sojourner Truth, herself at the time enslaved on a neighboring farm. Robert was severely beaten by Catton and his son and died of these injuries. Catton died on 24 April 1819. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "29342709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29342709", "title": "Church of St. Mary of the Spring (Istanbul)", "text": "Church of St. Mary of the Spring (Istanbul)\n\nThe Monastery of the Mother of God at the Spring (full name in , pr. \"Moni tis Theotóku tis Pigis\"; Turkish name: \"Balıklı Meryem Ana Rum Manastiri\") or simply Zoödochos Pege (, \"Life-giving Spring\") is an Eastern Orthodox sanctuary in Istanbul, Turkey. The present church, built in 1835, bears the same dedication as the shrine erected in this place between the end of the fifth and the beginning of the sixth century. After several renovations, this building was destroyed in the first half of the fifteenth century by the Ottomans. The complex got its name from a nearby holy spring, reputed to have healing properties. For almost fifteen hundred years, this sanctuary has been one of the most important pilgrimage sites of Greek Orthodoxy.\n\nThe church is located in Istanbul, in the district of Zeytinburnu, in the neighbourhood of Balıklı, along \"Balıklı Sivrikapı Sokak\". It lies a few hundred meters outside the walled city, about five hundred meters from the Gate of Silivri (Turkish: \"Silivri Kapısı\"). The complex is protected by a high wall, and – being surrounded by Eastern Orthodox and Armenian cemeteries – lies in a green landscape.\n\nAccording to historians Procopius and Cedrenus, the church was originally erected by Emperor Justinian in the last years of his reign (559-560) near a fountain of water from a holy well (, \"hagiasma\", whence ) situated outside the walls of Theodosius II in correspondence of today's Gate of Silivri. During hunting the Emperor noticed a small chapel surrounded by many women. Asking the meaning of the building, he was told that this was the “source of the miracles”. He at once ordered that a magnificent church be built there, with the material remaining after the erection of the Hagia Sophia.\n\nAccording to a later legend, the sanctuary was erected by Emperor Leo I the Thracian (r. 457–474) because of a miracle that occurred when he was still a soldier. Before entering the City, Leo met a blind man who asked him to give him water. A female voice ordered the future Emperor to wet the eyes of the blind man with water from a nearby swamp. The same voice added that she had chosen that very place to be worshiped and that he would one day receive the crown to the empire. Leo followed her order and at once the blind man recovered his eyesight. After his accession to the throne, the Emperor erected a magnificent church on this place. This legend is possibly a later invention of the monks of the sanctuary. It is possible that, before the Justinian's building was erected, a small monastery had already existed there.\n\nThe building underwent many repairs over the centuries. The largest were required because of earthquakes: in 790, under Empress Irene, and – after the great earthquake of 869 – under Basil I (r. 867–886). On 7 September 924 Tsar Simeon I of Bulgaria burned the complex, which was at once restored by Romanos I Lekapenos (r. 920–944). Three years later the son of Simeon, Peter was married to Maria, the niece of Lekapenos.\n\nDue to its position outside the city, the monastery was often used as place of exile. In 1078 Georgios Monomachos was banished there. In 1084, Emperor Alexios I Komnenos confined the philosopher John Italus to the monastery, because of his neoplatonic theories.\n\nAfter the Latin invasion of 1204, the church was occupied by the Latin clergy and, according to Byzantine sources, this caused the end of the so-called \"habitual miracle\" (\"to synetés thauma\").\n\nIn 1328 Andronikos III Palaiologos used the monastery as base to attack Constantinople. Two years later, as he lay dying in the town of Didymoteicho, he drank water from the spring and recovered at once.\n\nDuring the Ottoman siege of Constantinople in 1422, Sultan Murad II camped in the sanctuary. It is unknown whether the Byzantines restored the building before the conquest of the city in 1453 Russian pilgrims of the fifteenth century do not mention the church, only the spring. The 16th-century French scholar Pierre Gilles writes that in 1547 the church did not exist anymore, but the sick continued to attend the spring.\nIn 1727 Nikodemos, Metropolitan of Dercos and Neochorion, built a small chapel above the Hagiasma. An icon, discovered in the foundations of the old church, was venerated in the chapel. The Armenians tried to take possession of the spring, but several firmans secured the possession to the Greeks. The complex was controlled by Turkish guardians, who collected from the pilgrims a tax that used for the maintenance of the prisons. Later the complex came into the possession of the Patriarchate, until in 1821 the Janissaries destroyed the chapel and poisoned the spring. In 1833, a firman allowed Patriarch Constantius I to rebuild the church, which was inaugurated in 1835.\n\nDuring the Istanbul Pogrom on 6 September 1955 it was targeted by the state-sponsored fanatic Muslim mob. During this attack the sarcophaguses of the Ecumenical Patriarchs which are located outside the church were opened and their remains were scattered. Moreover, the church and the monastery were completely burned to the ground. Since then the damage has been restored. \n\nThe sanctuary is directed by a titular bishop and is one of the most popular among the Orthodox of Istanbul, who visit it especially during the Friday after Easter and on September 14. On these two days, a great feast, both profane and religious takes place there. Funerals of people to be buried in the nearby cemetery are also celebrated in the church.\n\nIn Byzantine times the sanctuary was one of the most important in Constantinople. On Ascension Day, the Emperor arrived by boat to the small harbor of the Golden Gate. He rode up to the sanctuary, where he was acclaimed by the factions, who offered him a cross and garlands. Later, he dressed in his ceremony robe in his apartments and, after receiving the Patriarch, the two entered the church hand-in-hand. After the celebration, he invited the Patriarch for dinner.\n\nEach future Empress coming to Constantinople for her wedding was received by her future spouse in the Monastery of the Spring.\n\nThe dedication feast of the church took place on July 9. Moreover, the Ascension, the Marriage at Cana (8 January) and the anniversary of the Miracle of Leo I on 16 August were celebrated here.\n\nThe Life-giving spring gave origin to many churches and monasteries bearing the same name in the Greek world, but most of them were erected after the end of the Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe icon that represents the Virgin of the Spring shows the Virgin blessing and embracing the Child. She is surrounded by two angels and usually is sitting on the more elevated of two basins which are sustained by a water jet coming from a larger marble basin adorned with a cross. Around this, stands the Emperor with his guard, while on the left there is the Patriarch with his bishops. On the background, is represented Leo I with the blind man together with the walls of the City. Under the basin a paralytic and a mad are healed with the spring’s water.\n\nAccording to Nikephoros Kallistos (writing in fourteenth century) the church by that time had a rectangular shape of basilica type, with a 4:3 proportion between the sides, and was partly subterranean. It was surrounded by two exonartheces (on the E and W side) and two esonarteces (on the S and N sides). The light coming from outside was concentrated on the source, which could be reached descending two stairs having 25 steps. Each stair was delimited by a marble balustrade and surmounted by a marble arcade. The water fell into a marble basin, and a canalization distributed it in the church. The edifice was adorned with frescos and surmounted by a dome glittering with pure gold. Around the church there were three chapels, devoted respectively to Saint Eustratius, the Theotokos and Saint Anne.\n\nThe present church is also rectangular in shape. It is roughly oriented in E - W direction, and has three naves divided by columns and preceded by an esonarthex. By the Northwest corner rises a metallic bell tower. The interior is richly adorned. On the right side near the middle of the nave there is a Pulpit, while at the end lies a rich iconostasis. Right of the iconostasis there is an icon which the tradition says painted by Saint Luke. The source lies in a subterranean crypt outside the church, and can be accessed descending a stair parallel the long sides of the church. A symmetric stair leads from the crypt to the church’s yard. The crypt is adorned with paintings and icons, and is surmounted by a dome painted with Christ in a starry sky. The water flows into a marble basin, where fishes are swimming. These fishes, present in the basin since centuries, gave origin to the Turkish name of the complex (\"balikli\" in Turkish means \"place where there are fishes\"). According to a late legend, the day of the Conquest of Constantinople a monk was frying fishes in a pan near the source. When a colleague announced him the fall of the City, he replied that he would have believed him only if the fishes in the pan would have come back to life. After his words these jumped in the source and began swimming.\n\nThe yard in front of a church is a cemetery with marble tombs – mostly of them dating to the nineteenth and twentieth century - belonging to wealthy \"Rûms\" of Istanbul. Also several Patriarchs are buried here. Characteristic of this cemetery are also several gravestones with Karamanli inscriptions, which constitute by far the largest surviving group in this language. The complex is also surrounded by two large cemeteries, respectively Armenian and Greek, each enclosed in high walls.\n\nAbout one kilometer south of the church is active an important Greek hospital, the \"Balikli Rum Hastanesi Vakif\" (“Balikli Greek Hospital Foundation”).\n\n"}
{"id": "49602921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49602921", "title": "Colossus of Ostermunzel", "text": "Colossus of Ostermunzel\n\nThe Colossus of Ostermunzel is a 27.5-tonne stone, a glacial erratic, found in a farmer's field east of Ostermunzel in Lower Saxony, Germany, in 2013. It was excavated and moved to a new location a kilometre away.\n\nThis glacial erratic, a piece of rock that differs from the size and type of rock native to the area in which it rests, was found by a farmer who was ploughing his land in 2013. The field in which it was discovered lies on a small hill near the district road K 253 between Ostermunzel and Dedensen. Upon discovering it, the owner of the field informed local authorities in accordance with the Lower Saxon natural protection law that discoveries of rocks that are more than 2 metres across (6½ ft) must be reported. The Hanover Region objected to its planned demolition.\nA preliminary investigation and assessment by Heinz-Gerd Röhling of the State Office of Mining, Energy and Geology (\"Landesamt für Bergbau, Energie und Geologie\") found that the stone qualified as a natural monument. Its large size is abnormal, particularly for northern Germany and especially for Lower Saxony. Due to the estimated €20,000 cost of its removal, the Hanover Region, which was in charge of what to do with the stone, initially decided to leave it where it was discovered. However, after reconsideration, the stone was removed intact in the spring of 2015 by a mobile crane and transported by a low loader to the Mühlenberg hill approximately 1 kilometre (0.6 miles) away for exhibition. Around 400 bystanders witnessed the excavation and transport. The removal costs totaled €15,000, with the expense borne by the Hanover Region. The new site is at a picnic area close to a bicycle path.\n\nThe glacial erratic stone's approximate measurements are 2.6 metres (8½ ft) high by 3.2 metres (10½ ft) wide, with a circumference of 10 metres (33 ft). Its weight was originally estimated to be 50 tonnes, but was found to be 27.5 tonnes when it was weighed at the time of its removal from the field where it was found and excavated.\n\nGeologists inspected the stone. It is probably composed of gneiss, estimated to be 1.4 to 1.6 billion years old. The mineral composition was preliminarily observed to be feldspar and biotite. It was brought to the region by a glacier from Scandinavia, probably from Sweden. \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "6056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6056", "title": "Continental drift", "text": "Continental drift\n\nContinental drift is the theory that the Earth's continents have moved over geologic time relative to each other, thus appearing to have \"drifted\" across the ocean bed. The speculation that continents might have 'drifted' was first put forward by Abraham Ortelius in 1596. The concept was independently and more fully developed by Alfred Wegener in 1912, but his theory was rejected by many for lack of any motive mechanism. Arthur Holmes later proposed mantle convection for that mechanism. The idea of continental drift has since been subsumed by the theory of plate tectonics, which explains that the continents move by riding on plates of the Earth's lithosphere.\n\nAbraham Ortelius , Theodor Christoph Lilienthal (1756), Alexander von Humboldt (1801 and 1845), Antonio Snider-Pellegrini , and others had noted earlier that the shapes of continents on opposite sides of the Atlantic Ocean (most notably, Africa and South America) seem to fit together. W. J. Kious described Ortelius' thoughts in this way:\n\nIn 1889, Alfred Russel Wallace remarked, \"It was formerly a very general belief, even amongst geologists, that the great features of the earth's surface, no less than the smaller ones, were subject to continual mutations, and that during the course of known geological time the continents and great oceans had, again and again, changed places with each other.\" He quotes Charles Lyell as saying, \"Continents, therefore, although permanent for whole geological epochs, shift their positions entirely in the course of ages.\" and claims that the first to throw doubt on this was James Dwight Dana in 1849.\n\nIn his \"Manual of Geology\" (1863), Dana wrote, \"The continents and oceans had their general outline or form defined in earliest time. This has been proved with respect to North America from the position and distribution of the first beds of the Silurian – those of the Potsdam epoch. … and this will probably prove to the case in Primordial time with the other continents also\". Dana was enormously influential in America – his \"Manual of Mineralogy\" is still in print in revised form – and the theory became known as \"Permanence theory\".\n\nThis appeared to be confirmed by the exploration of the deep sea beds conducted by the Challenger expedition, 1872-6, which showed that contrary to expectation, land debris brought down by rivers to the ocean is deposited comparatively close to the shore on what is now known as the continental shelf. This suggested that the oceans were a permanent feature of the Earth's surface, and did not change places with the continents.\n\nApart from the earlier speculations mentioned in the previous section, the idea that the American continents had once formed a single landmass together with Europe and Asia before assuming their present shapes and positions was speculated by several scientists before Alfred Wegener's 1912 paper.\nAlthough Wegener's theory was formed independently and was more complete than those of his predecessors, Wegener later credited a number of past authors with similar ideas:\nFranklin Coxworthy (between 1848 and 1890), Roberto Mantovani (between 1889 and 1909), William Henry Pickering (1907) and Frank Bursley Taylor (1908). In addition, Eduard Suess had proposed a supercontinent Gondwana in 1885 and the Tethys Ocean in 1893, assuming a land-bridge between the present continents submerged in the form of a geosyncline, and John Perry had written an 1895 paper proposing that the earth's interior was fluid, and disagreeing with Lord Kelvin on the age of the earth.\n\nFor example: the similarity of southern continent geological formations had led Roberto Mantovani to conjecture in 1889 and 1909 that all the continents had once been joined into a supercontinent; Wegener noted the similarity of Mantovani's and his own maps of the former positions of the southern continents. In Mantovani's conjecture, this continent broke due to volcanic activity caused by thermal expansion, and the new continents drifted away from each other because of further expansion of the rip-zones, where the oceans now lie. This led Mantovani to propose an Expanding Earth theory which has since been shown to be incorrect.\n\nContinental drift without expansion was proposed by Frank Bursley Taylor, who suggested in 1908 (published in 1910) that the continents were moved into their present positions by a process of \"continental creep\". In a later paper he proposed that this occurred by their being dragged towards the equator by tidal forces during the hypothesized capture of the moon in the Cretaceous, resulting in \"general crustal creep\" toward the equator. Although his proposed mechanism was wrong, he was the first to realize the insight that one of the effects of continental motion would be the formation of mountains, and attributed the formation of the Himalayas to the collision between the Indian subcontinent with Asia. Wegener said that of all those theories, Taylor's, although not fully developed, had the most similarities to his own. In the mid-20th century, the theory of continental drift was referred to as the \"Taylor-Wegener hypothesis\", although this terminology eventually fell out of common use.\n\nAlfred Wegener first presented his hypothesis to the German Geological Society on 6 January 1912. His hypothesis was that the continents had once formed a single landmass, called Pangaea, before breaking apart and drifting to their present locations.\n\nWegener was the first to use the phrase \"continental drift\" (1912, 1915) (in German \"die Verschiebung der Kontinente\" – translated into English in 1922) and formally publish the hypothesis that the continents had somehow \"drifted\" apart. Although he presented much evidence for continental drift, he was unable to provide a convincing explanation for the physical processes which might have caused this drift. His suggestion that the continents had been pulled apart by the centrifugal pseudoforce (\"Polflucht\") of the Earth's rotation or by a small component of astronomical precession was rejected, as calculations showed that the force was not sufficient. The Polflucht hypothesis was also studied by Paul Sophus Epstein in 1920 and found to be implausible.\n\nThe theory of continental drift was not accepted for many years. One problem was that a plausible driving force was missing. A second problem was that Wegener's estimate of the velocity of continental motion, 250  cm/year, was implausibly high. (The currently accepted rate for the separation of the Americas from Europe and Africa is about 2.5  cm/year). It also did not help that Wegener was not a geologist. Other geologists also believed that the evidence that Wegener had provided was not sufficient. It is now accepted that the plates carrying the continents do move across the Earth's surface, although not as fast as Wegener believed; ironically one of the chief outstanding questions is the one Wegener failed to resolve: what is the nature of the forces propelling the plates?\n\nThe British geologist Arthur Holmes championed the theory of continental drift at a time when it was deeply unfashionable. He proposed in 1931 that the Earth's mantle contained convection cells which dissipated radioactive heat and moved the crust at the surface. His \"Principles of Physical Geology\", ending with a chapter on continental drift, was published in 1944.\n\nGeological maps of the time showed huge land bridges spanning the Atlantic and Indian oceans to account for the similarities of fauna and flora and the divisions of the Asian continent in the Permian era but failing to account for glaciation in India, Australia and South Africa.\n\nGeophysicist Jack Oliver is credited with providing seismologic evidence supporting plate tectonics which encompassed and superseded continental drift with the article \"Seismology and the New Global Tectonics\", published in 1968, using data collected from seismologic stations, including those he set up in the South Pacific.\n\nIt is now known that there are two kinds of crust: continental crust and oceanic crust. Continental crust is inherently lighter and its composition is different from oceanic crust, but both kinds reside above a much deeper \"plastic\" mantle. Oceanic crust is created at spreading centers, and this, along with subduction, drives the system of plates in a chaotic manner, resulting in continuous orogeny and areas of isostatic imbalance. The theory of plate tectonics explains all this, including the movement of the continents, better than Wegener's theory.\n\nHans Stille and Leopold Kober opposed the idea of continental drift and worked on a \"fixist\" geosyncline model with Earth contraction playing a key role in the formation of orogens. Other geologists who opposed continental drift were Bailey Willis, Charles Schuchert, Rollin Chamberlin and Walther Bucher. In 1939 an international geological conference was held in Frankfurt. This conference came to be dominated by the fixists, especially as those geologists specializing in tectonics were all fixists except Willem van der Gracht. Criticism of continental drift and mobilism was abundant at the conference not only from tectonicists but also from sedimentological (Nölke), paleontological (Nölke), mechanical (Lehmann) and oceanographic (Troll, Wüst) perspectives. Hans Cloos, the organizer of the conference, was also a fixist who together with Troll held the view that excepting the Pacific Ocean continents were not radically different from oceans in their behaviour. The mobilist theory of Émile Argand for the Alpine orogeny was criticized by Kurt Leuchs. The few drifters and mobilists at the conference appealed to biogeography (Kirsch, Wittmann), paleoclimatology (Wegener, K), paleontology (Gerth) and geodetic measurements (Wegener, K). F. Bernauer correctly equated Reykjanes in Iceland with the Mid-Atlantic Ridge arguing with this that the floor of the Atlantic Ocean was undergoing extension just like Reykjanes. Bernauer thought this extension had drifted the continents only 100–200 km apart, the approximate width of the volcanic zone in Iceland.\n\nDavid Attenborough, who attended university in the second half of the 1940s, recounted an incident illustrating its lack of acceptance then: \"I once asked one of my lecturers why he was not talking to us about continental drift and I was told, sneeringly, that if I could prove there was a force that could move continents, then he might think about it. The idea was moonshine, I was informed.\"\n\nAs late as 1953 – just five years before Carey introduced the theory of plate tectonics – the theory of continental drift was rejected by the physicist Scheidegger on the following grounds.\n\nFrom the 1930s to the late 1950s, works by Vening-Meinesz, Holmes, Umbgrove, and numerous others outlined concepts that were close or nearly identical to modern plate tectonics theory. In particular, the English geologist Arthur Holmes proposed in 1920 that plate junctions might lie beneath the sea, and in 1928 that convection currents within the mantle might be the driving force. Holmes' views were particularly influential: in his bestselling textbook, \"Principles of Physical Geology,\" he included a chapter on continental drift, proposing that Earth's mantle contained convection cells which dissipated radioactive heat and moved the crust at the surface.  Holmes' proposal resolved the phase disequilibrium objection (the underlying fluid was kept from solidifying by radioactive heating from the core).  However, scientific communication in the '30 and '40s was inhibited by the war, and the theory still required work to avoid foundering on the orogeny and isostasy objections.  Worse, the most viable forms of the theory predicted the existence of convection cell boundaries reaching deep into the earth that had yet to be observed.\n\nIn 1947, a team of scientists led by Maurice Ewing confirmed the existence of a rise in the central Atlantic Ocean, and found that the floor of the seabed beneath the sediments was chemically and physically different from continental crust.  As oceanographers continued to bathymeter the ocean basins, a system of mid-oceanic ridges was detected.  An important conclusion was that along this system, new ocean floor was being created, which led to the concept of the \"Great Global Rift\".\n\nMeanwhile, scientists began recognizing odd magnetic variations across the ocean floor using devices developed during World War II to detect submarines.  Over the next decade, it became increasingly clear that the magnetization patterns were not anomalies, as had been originally supposed. In a series of papers in 1959-1963, Heezen, Dietz, Hess, Mason, Vine, Matthews, and Morley collectively realized that the magnetization of the ocean floor formed extensive, zebra-like patterns: one stripe would exhibit normal polarity and the adjoining stripes reversed polarity.  The best explanation was the \"conveyor belt\" or Vine–Matthews–Morley hypothesis.  New magma from deep within the Earth rises easily through these weak zones and eventually erupts along the crest of the ridges to create new oceanic crust.  The new crust is magnetized by the earth's magnetic field, which undergoes occasional reversals.  Formation of new crust then displaces the magnetized crust apart, akin to a conveyor belt — hence the name.\n\nWithout workable alternatives to explain the stripes, geophysicists were forced to conclude that Holmes had been right: ocean rifts were sites of perpetual orogeny at the boundaries of convection cells. By 1967, barely two decades after discovery of the mid-oceanic rifts, and a decade after discovery of the striping, plate tectonics had become axiomatic to modern geophysics.\n\nIn addition, Marie Tharp, in collaboration with Bruce Heezen, (who initially ridiculed Marie's observations that her maps confirmed continental drift theory), provided essential corroboration, using her skills in cartography and seismographic data, to confirm the theory. \n\nEvidence for the movement of continents on tectonic plates is now extensive. Similar plant and animal fossils are found around the shores of different continents, suggesting that they were once joined. The fossils of \"Mesosaurus\", a freshwater reptile rather like a small crocodile, found both in Brazil and South Africa, are one example; another is the discovery of fossils of the land reptile \"Lystrosaurus\" in rocks of the same age at locations in Africa, India, and Antarctica. There is also living evidence, with the same animals being found on two continents. Some earthworm families (such as Ocnerodrilidae, Acanthodrilidae, Octochaetidae) are found in South America and Africa.\n\nThe complementary arrangement of the facing sides of South America and Africa is obvious but a temporary coincidence. In millions of years, slab pull, ridge-push, and other forces of tectonophysics will further separate and rotate those two continents. It was that temporary feature that inspired Wegener to study what he defined as continental drift although he did not live to see his hypothesis generally accepted.\n\nThe widespread distribution of Permo-Carboniferous glacial sediments in South America, Africa, Madagascar, Arabia, India, Antarctica and Australia was one of the major pieces of evidence for the theory of continental drift. The continuity of glaciers, inferred from oriented glacial striations and deposits called tillites, suggested the existence of the supercontinent of Gondwana, which became a central element of the concept of continental drift. Striations indicated glacial flow away from the equator and toward the poles, based on continents' current positions and orientations, and supported the idea that the southern continents had previously been in dramatically different locations that were contiguous with one another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24511121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24511121", "title": "Continuous marine broadcast", "text": "Continuous marine broadcast\n\nA continuous marine broadcast, or CMB, is a marine weather broadcasting service operated by the Canadian Coast Guard. CMBs are programmed from the various Marine Communications and Traffic Services centres on the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic coasts of Canada, as well as on the coasts of the Great Lakes. Programming is broadcast in English and French on the Atlantic Coast and along the Saint Lawrence River, and in English only on the Great Lakes, Arctic Coast and Pacific Coast.\n\nThe content of a CMB is a continuously-played back loop of marine weather information, provided by Environment Canada and updated several times a day, as well as live broadcasts of selected notices to mariners, shipping, and fishermen. Most of the recordings are made using real human voices, with a computerized text-to-speech system providing information from automated weather observation points. When necessary, an officer at an MCTS station can break into a CMB transmission and broadcast an urgent live message, such as a navigational warning or a distress relay message.\n\nCMBs are transmitted on several frequencies:\n\nAs well, on the Pacific coast, CMBs are transmitted on weather radio frequencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "51072866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51072866", "title": "Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy", "text": "Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy\n\nThe Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) is a government department, which was created by Theresa May on 14 July 2016 following her appointment as Prime Minister, created as a result of a merger between the Department of Energy and Climate Change and Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.\n\nBEIS will bring together responsibility for business, industrial strategy, and science and innovation with energy and climate change policy, merging the functions of the former BIS and DECC.\n\nThe Ministers in the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy are as follows:\n\nIn October 2016, Archie Norman was appointed as Lead Non Executive Board Member for the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy.\n\nThe department is responsible for UK Government policy in the following areas:\n\nSome policies apply to England alone due to devolution, while others are not devolved and therefore apply to other nations of the United Kingdom.\n\nEconomic policy is mostly devolved but several important policy areas are reserved to Westminster. Reserved and excepted matters are outlined below.\n\nScotland\n\nReserved matters:\n\nThe Scottish Government Economy Directorate handles devolved economic policy.\n\nNorthern Ireland\n\nReserved matters:\n\nExcepted matter:\n\nThe department's main counterpart is:\n"}
{"id": "14208562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14208562", "title": "Ecoregions of Zambia", "text": "Ecoregions of Zambia\n\nThe biomes and ecoregions in the ecology of Zambia are described, listed and mapped here, following the World Wildlife Fund's Global 200 classification scheme for terrestrial ecoregions, and the WWF freshwater bioregion classification for rivers, lakes and wetlands.\nZambia is in the Afrotropic biogeographic realm (or ecozone) of the scheme. Three terrestrial biomes are well represented in the country (with an additional one extending a few kilometres over the border).\nThe distribution of the biomes and ecoregions is governed mainly by the physical environment, especially climate.\n\nThe main aspects of the physical environment which determine the biomes and ecoregions of Zambia are: climate, specifically rainfall amount, length of the dry season, and temperature, which is related to elevation; and soils and bushfires.\n\nRainfall amount is the most important determinant of the type and distribution of ecoregions. Zambia experiences good rainfall, with extremes of 500 to 1400 mm (most areas fall into the range 700 to ) in a distinct rainy season of four to six months centred on January, when the moist intertropical convergence zone is over the country. The highest rainfall is in the north (about 1200 mm –- all figures are annual amounts), especially the north-west (1400 mm), decreasing towards the south (around 700 mm); the driest areas are in the Luangwa and middle Zambezi valleys (500 mm). None of the country is arid.\n\nThe dry season lasts 6–8 months, divided into the cool dry season or winter from April or May to August, followed by the hot dry season, September to November. Most rivers, lakes and swamps are permanent, except in the hotter, drier south. Along the banks of permanent rivers and in the spray of waterfalls are evergreen thickets similar in character to tropical rainforest, relics of a wetter past. In dambos (grasslands found in most of the country) and other marshes, soil water is available throughout the dry season, but they may be rather acidic. \nElsewhere, plants and animals are adapted to the long dry season. For plants this includes the deciduous habit (losing leaves to conserve water), very deep root systems, water-storing roots and tubers, waxy leaf cuticles, and drought-resistant seeds. Succulent plants are also widespread, especially in rocky areas. For animals, adaptations to drought are seen in migration and breeding patterns, as well as the ability, found in rodents and reptiles especially, to obtain water requirements from food without the need to drink. Hibernation through the dry season is practiced by some amphibians and invertebrates. The latter may also survive the dry season through drought-resistant forms.\n\nThe elevation of the great central African plateau on which Zambia is located, typically between 1000 and 1300 metres, modifies temperatures, which are lower than for coastal areas at the same latitude, and pleasant for much of the year. On the plateau (covering about 80% of the country) mean minimums for June in the cool dry season are in the range 6–12 °C, mean maximums for October, the hot dry season are 28–35 °C. Frost only occurs on a few days in winter on the highest exposed hills, or more widely in the lower humidity areas of the southern half of the country. Plants susceptible to frost do not grow in the southern half of the country. Otherwise temperature by itself is not a great determinant of plant and animal distribution.\nTemperatures are higher at lower elevations, such as the Luapula-Mweru and Mweru-Wantipa/Tanganyika valleys in the north, and highest in the lower Luangwa and Zambezi valleys in the south, typically experiencing 40 °C in October.\nOne way in which temperature affects the distribution of large mammals is through the distribution of the tsetse fly, which, within its range is found in hotter valleys rather than the higher, cooler plateau. Species susceptible to trypanosomiasis are not found in such valleys.\n\nThe broad types of soil found in Zambia are: \nIn areas where soils are waterlogged for all or part of the year, or are very infertile, sandy or acidic, they take over from climate as the predominant factor in determining the distribution of plants and animals. Such communities are said to be edaphic, and are found on grey dambo soils, black floodplain soils and Kalahari sands.\n\nBush fires range across most of the country in the later dry season, escaping from \"chitemene cultivation\" and caused by villagers burning off crop residue or hunting, as well as by lightning strikes. The vegetation is adapted to it, particularly the grasses, and at that time of the year deciduous trees have lost most of their leaves and so usually do not suffer extensive damage. Prevailing winds are not usually very strong and a lack of a great deal of dry fuel on the ground (since most areas are burnt annually it does not build up) means that the fires are not as devastating as in countries such as Australia and the south-western USA.\n\nRough estimates of the percentage of the country covered as given below are for the original or natural state of the area before urbanisation and agriculture has modified it. The numbers relate to the location labels on the map.\n\nIn Zambia this biome is represented by only one ecoregion in a few patches, covering around 5% of the land area.\n\nQuite dense evergreen forest of medium height on sandy soils with little to no surface water, in several patches which make up the largest evergreen forest in Africa outside of the equatorial zone. The dominant genus, \"Cryptosepalum\", is a tree in the legume family. The lack of water and thickness of the forest has kept the human population low, and despite some poaching and the absence of protection, the forest is still fairly rich in wildlife. The main patches are in:\n\nMost of Zambia (around 80%) is in this extensive biome. Six ecoregions are represented of which the first four listed below are woodland savannas, consisting of a grass cover 1–2 m high, and hardwood deciduous trees and/or hardwood shrubs, which range in ground coverage from 'scattered' to 'abundant'. Leguminous tree species dominate, which are deciduous, losing leaves in the dry season and producing a flush of new leaves, often reddish, just before the onset of the rains. In higher rainfall areas of Zambia the proportion and size of trees are at the higher extreme for this biome, with a canopy covering up to 40% of the ground and trees often exceeding 10 m in height. However, except in the case of the last ecoregion listed, even where the canopy is extensive, at ground level the woodland is relatively open, affording quite easy passage by animals and people.\n\nThe most extensive ecoregion covering about 50% of the country, characterised by Miombo trees (\"Brachystegia sp.\"), a member of the legume family. This ecoregion predominates in the wettest part of the country, across the northern part of both 'lobes' of the country . On the flat central African plateau the woodland is interspersed with dambos, grassy wetlands forming the headwaters and margins of rivers which may make up to 30% of the ecoregion and which increase biodiversity of the ecoregion. The ecoregion has suffered extensive deforestation, especially in the highly urbanised Copperbelt Province due to charcoal production and clearing for farming, the centre of Central Province (for farming and ranching), and around Kasama and Mansa (charcoal production and \"chitemene\" farming). It covers:\n\nCovering about 15% of the country in the south, and drier than the Central Zambezian ecoregion, trees in this ecoregion are more scattered and generally smaller, and the relative proportion of woody shrubs is greater. Dambos are fewer. Much of the ecoregion in Southern Province (sometimes referred to as the Southern Plateau) and the south-east of Eastern Province (sometimes referred to as the Eastern Plateau) has been cleared for farming and ranching. The main sites are:\n\nThe Mopane tree \"Colophospermum mopane\" is also a legume and grows in hotter locations than the miombo species, and so Mopane woodlands, covering about 15% of the country, replace southern miombo woodlands at lower elevations in valleys in the south of the country, principally:\n\nThis ecoregion, covering about 5% of Zambia in the south-west, is dominated by \"Baikiaea plurijuga\", Zambian teak. It is well adapted to hot dry areas on sandy soils, and forms extensive forests which have been over-exploited by commercial timber production over the past 75 years, in: \n\nThese are the most extensive non-floodplain grasslands in Zambia, covering about 5% of the country in the west, and support large herds of wildebeest which migrate between western Zambia and Angola. They are found:\n\nThis endangered ecoregion is found in only one small area (less than 1%) of northern Zambia, named after Sumbu, and it found is in only location anywhere else, an equally small area of central Tanzania (Itigi). It comprises an almost impenetrable bush consisting of about a hundred plant species woven together so densely that it is virtually impossible to walk through. Around 70% of the Zambian thicket has been lost to land clearing and at the present rate the rest will vanish within 20 years. It is found:\n\nThis biome is represented by one ecoregion. As a country with very distinct rainy and dry seasons, with a high rainfall in the former, and having a fairly flat topography, Zambian rivers and low-lying areas are prone to flooding, and there are extensive permanent swamps. Around 10% of the country is in this biome and its sole ecoregion. Plants, animals and people have evolved to this cycle which in Zambia has been fairly reliable, and it brings a number of ecological advantages which promote biodiversity. The role of termites in building mounds which remain above most of the flood is important as this provides habitats for plants less tolerant of getting waterlogged, as well as safe breeding sites for birds and some animals.\n\nThe 8 sites listed below form a broad chain running from south-west to north-east. The chain extends into Namibia and Botswana at one end (Caprivi wetlands and Okavango Swamp) and to Tanzania and Kenya at the other. This chain is exploited by birds in their migration and in former times, animals also migrated along the chain. The main sites are: \n\nThis biome covers an area of only about 100 km² on the northern border with Malawi, being an extension of a much larger area in Malawi and Tanzania, and so is frequently not counted as present in Zambia. It lies on plateau above 2000 m elevation, with grassland and shrubland dominating. In Zambia a sole ecoregion within the biome is represented.\n\nThis ecoregion is made up of grassland and shrubland, with a great variety of orchids and wildflowers on exposed hills, with forest in narrow valleys and small depressions. It occurs only on:\n\nThe great freshwater lakes of Tanganyika, Mweru, Bangweulu and Kariba (an artificial reservoir), together with the smaller lakes such as Mweru Wantipa and Itezhi-Tezhi reservoir, and numerous lagoons and swamps cover about 5% of Zambia. Together with their associated rivers, the WWF categorises these freshwater bioregions in Zambia:\nZambezi Basin made up of (not shown on the map):\n\n"}
{"id": "49706442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49706442", "title": "Eddystone explosion", "text": "Eddystone explosion\n\nOn April 10, 1917, four days after the United States declared war on Germany, an explosion at the Eddystone Ammunition Corporation's artillery shell plant in Eddystone, Pennsylvania, killed 139 people. The majority were women and girls who worked in the loading room, loading shells with black powder. 55 of the victims could not be identified and were buried in a mass grave. Hundreds more were injured. The victims were arguably among the first American casualties of World War I.\n\nThe explosion was initially blamed on German saboteurs, and later on Russians. It may in fact have been an accident caused by malfunctioning equipment.\n\nThe Eddystone plant, built in 1916, was located near Chester, Pennsylvania, where the Eddystone Power Station now stands. At the time of the explosion it was reportedly manufacturing shells for the Russian White Army.\n\nAbout 380 women and girls worked in the plant's \"F\" Building. The company had placed newspaper ads specifically recruiting \"girls\" for the job. The building had three divisions: the pellet room, where girls made the black powder fuses that ran through the center of the shrapnel shells; the loading room, where the fuses were inserted and \"pocket cups\" at the bottom of the shells were filled with loose powder; and the inspection room, where the finished product was inspected. Normally only about thirty girls worked in the pellet room, but two weeks earlier the company had hired about seventy more to fill a large rush order that was due to be shipped in a few days.\n\nOn Monday, April 10, 1917, just before 10:00 a.m., a massive explosion demolished the plant's \"F\" building, killing 139 people. According to the \"New York Times\", it started when some 18 tons of black powder somehow ignited, setting off thousands of shrapnel shells, causing \"a series of detonations that shook a half dozen boroughs within a radius of ten miles of the plant.\" The majority of those killed were women and girls who worked in the loading room. Hundreds of others were injured, some maimed or badly burned.\n\nSome bodies were found in the nearby Delaware River. Workers may have sought safety there from the fire and drowned, or they may have been thrown there by the blast.\n\nThe company employed special guards who were the first on the scene. They were joined by the fire department and cadets from the nearby Pennsylvania Military Academy. One of their first tasks was to stop the fire from setting off the more than 50 tons of black powder that were sitting in a storage facility near the loading and inspection area. Several men climbed to the roof of the facility and hosed it down. Many rescuers were injured by flying shrapnel. One, John Hansen, had his leg blown off.\n\nOne reporter wrote that for the locals who rushed to the offices of the \"Chester Times\" for news of their daughters, \"it was their first taste of what war means, for this is war. It is just as much war as is a battle on the British front in France.\"\n\nInvestigators first suspected the plant had been bombed by German saboteurs. Dozens of suspects were arrested. Years later, a federal inquiry cast suspicion on Russian revolutionaries opposed to the czar and the war.\n\nSabotage was a plausible explanation, as the U.S. was at war. It was also a convenient explanation for the business owners, as it deflected attention from unsafe conditions in the plant. The day of the explosion, company president Samuel M. Vauclain told the \"New York Times\" he was convinced it was the work of \"some outside person\" and not the result of \"carelessness by employees\"; the implication being that either saboteurs or the victims themselves were to blame. The next day, an unnamed explosives expert told reporters it would have been easy for one of \"the women engaged in the packing of time fuses\" to plant a bomb.\n\nA guard at the plant told reporters that electrical devices used to shake explosive powder down into the shrapnel shells had been malfunctioning for some time. He suggested that tangled wires in the devices had short-circuited, throwing sparks which ignited the powder. This would be consistent with workers' reports of a \"blinding flare\" before the explosion. Some of those killed were found with their hands still covering their eyes.\n\nLess than two weeks after the blast, the plant reopened. The local press announced that 900 girls were ready to go to work and many more had applied for jobs. German applicants were turned away.\n\n12,000 mourners gathered in the Chester Rural Cemetery on April 13, 1917, for a massive funeral service. The Eddystone Ammunition Corporation paid all of the funeral expenses. The remains of 55 unidentified victims were buried in a mass grave marked by a small monument near Edgmont Avenue.\n\nOn April 16, 1917, President Woodrow Wilson gave a speech in which he acknowledged the importance of industrial workers in the war effort:\n\nThe industrial forces of the country, men and women alike, will be a great national, a great international, Service Army—a notable and honored host engaged in the service of the nation and the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15718223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15718223", "title": "Edward James Ravenscroft", "text": "Edward James Ravenscroft\n\nEdward James Ravenscroft (1816–1890), was the author of \"The Pinetum Britannicum\" (1884), a monumental three-volume work that describes and depicts exotic coniferous trees cultivated in Britain in the 19th century, when they were at the height of popularity.\n\nThe work is illustrated with William Richardson’s hand-coloured lithographs of trees shown in their native habitat or under cultivation in British gardens. \"The Pinetum Britannicum\" is regarded as a landmark publication on conifers, and both Napoleon III and Queen Victoria subscribed to its first edition.\n\nRavenscroft, Edward James (1816–1890). \"The Pinetum Britannicum\", a descriptive account of hardy coniferous trees cultivated in Great Britain. Edinburgh and London: Ballantyne, Hanson & Co., for W. Blackwood & Sons, [1863]–1884. Hand-coloured lithographic plates by William Richardson, James Black, R.K. Greville, and J. Wallace, lithographed by A. Murray, Robert Black, Fr. Schenk, J. M'Nab and M.T. Masters, 4 mounted albumen photographs by F. Mason, one lithographic plate of maps, and numerous wood-engraved text illustrations\n\nThis botanist is denoted by the author abbreviation Ravenscr. when citing a botanical name.\n\n"}
{"id": "2617516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2617516", "title": "Eloko", "text": "Eloko\n\nEloko (pl, \"Biloko\") is a term in a Mongo-Nkundo language referring to a kind of dwarf-like creature that lives in the forests. They are believed to be the spirits of ancestors of the people living there. Legend has it that they haunt the forest because they have some grudge to settle with the living and are generally quite vicious. Biloko live in the densest and darkest part of the rain forest in central Zaïre, jealously and ferociously guarding their treasures: the game and the rare fruits of the forest. Only intrepid hunters are said to enter the deepest forest and survive, because in order to be successful, hunters have to possess strong magic, without which they would never see any game at all. There are many tales about wives who insist upon joining their husbands in the forest only to faint as soon as they see their first Eloko. The Biloko live in hollow trees and are dressed only in leaves. They have no hair; only grass grows on their bodies; they have piercing eyes, snouts with mouths that can be opened wide enough to admit a human body, alive or dead, and long, sharp claws. They possess little bells, which, in Central Africa are believed to be able to cast a spell on passers-by. Possessing an amulet or a fetish can offer protection from this type of magic.\n\nA typical Eloko tale: \nOne day a hunter took his wife, at her insistence, into the forest, where he had a hut with a palisade around it. When he went out to inspect his traps, he told her: \"When you hear a bell, do not move. If you do, you will die!\" Soon after he had left, she heard the charming sound of a little bell coming closer, for the Eloko has a good nose for feminine flesh. Finally, a gentle voice asked to be let in to his room. It was like the voice of a child. The woman opened the door and there was an Eloko, smelling like the forest, looking small and innocent. She offered him banana mash with fried fish but he refused: \"We eat only human meat. I have not eaten for a long time. Give me a piece of your arm.\" At last the woman consented, totally under the spell of the Eloko. That night, the husband found her bones.\n"}
{"id": "3268133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3268133", "title": "Eurynome (Oceanid)", "text": "Eurynome (Oceanid)\n\nEurynome (; Ancient Greek: ) was a deity of ancient Greek religion worshipped at a sanctuary near the confluence of rivers called the Neda and the Lymax in classical Peloponnesus. She was represented by a statue of what we would call a mermaid. Tradition, as reported by the Greek traveller, Pausanias, identified her with the Oceanid, or \"daughter of Ocean\", of Greek poetry.\n\nThe name is usually segmented Eury-nome, where eury- is \"wide\". This segment appears in Linear B as e-u-ru–, a prefix in a few men’s names. It does not occur in any Mycenaean women’s names, nor does –nome.\n\nThe root of –nome is Proto-Indo-European *nem-, distribute, as in the Greek infinitive, nemein, \"to distribute.\" Words derived from *nem- had a large variety of senses. In the case of Eurynome, the two main senses proposed are \"wanderer\" and \"ruler\".\n\nRobert Graves saw in Eurynome a lunar goddess descending from the Pre-Hellenic mother goddess of Neolithic Europe. In that case, –nome is as in our word nomad. The nomad wanders searching for pastureland, or land that has been \"distributed\" for the use of domestic animals. The moon is to be regarded as wandering. In the other interpretation, –nome is as in English auto-nomy. A ruler is someone who \"distributes\" law and justice. Neither case has any bearing on the status of Eurynome as a possible Pelasgian mother goddess.\n\nIf Eurynome was the descendant of a pre-Greek goddess, she must have had a pre-Greek name, and not the Greek name, Eurynome. If the name is Indo-European, it might have evolved into Greek with the rest of the language. If it is not Indo-European, then it might result from renaming or from selecting the closest Greek homonym.\n\nIn the epic tradition, Eurynome was one of the elder Oceanides, that is, a daughter of Oceanus and Tethys. Eurynome was the third bride of Zeus and mother of the Charites, goddesses of grace and beauty.\n\nWhen Hephaestus was cast from Olympus by the goddess Hera, who was disgusted at having borne a crippled child, he was caught by Eurynome and Thetis (possibly a doubling for Tethys, her mother). Eurynome and Thetis nursed the god Hephaestus on the banks of the earth-encircling river Oceanus, after his fall from heaven. Charis, Eurynome's daughter, later became Hephaestus' bride.\n\nEurynome is closely identified with another Eurynome, Queen of the Titans. This Eurynome was an early Titan queen who ruled Olympus beside her husband Ophion. The pair were wrestled for their thrones by Cronus and Rhea who cast them down into the earth-encircling river Oceanus.\n\nIliad 18.388ff\n\nTheogony \n\nHomer and Hesiod establish that a belief in the Oceanid existed in the earliest literary times. The most likely circumstance, based on the testimony of Pausanias, is that both authors took their themes from a religion known to and believed in by all the Hellenes; thus, it is probably best to assume that Eurynome the Oceanid is the same Oceanid of ancient Greek belief mentioned in all the classical sources.\n\n8.41.5, 6\n\n9.35.5 \n\nEurynome was worshipped at the confluence of the rivers Neda and Lymax in Arcadia. Her \"xoanon\", which could only be viewed when her sanctuary was opened once a year, was a wooden statue bound in golden chains depicting a woman's upper body and the lower body of a fish. Her son Asopus was the god of a nearby stream in the adjacent region of Sikyonia. The fish-tailed goddess, Eurynome, worshipped in Arcadia, may have been Eurynome wife of Ophion, Tethys the wife of Oceanus, Eurynome mother of the Charites, the goddess of the river Neda, or a watery Artemis.\n"}
{"id": "23937596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23937596", "title": "Fixed bill", "text": "Fixed bill\n\nFixed bill refers to an energy pricing program in which a consumer pays a predetermined amount for their total energy consumption for a given period. The price is independent of the amount of energy the customer uses or the unit price of the energy. Energy companies can offer this type of pricing by hedging the risks of fluctuating demand using weather derivatives.\n\nThe ability to provide fixed bill energy contracts in the US grew out of the deregulation of the energy industry in the 1990s. An early pioneer in this field was Equitable Gas Company. They proposed a one-year, fixed-bill natural gas contract to Allegheny County, PA public schools in 1995.\n\nThe two inventors of the Equitable Gas product, Bernard Bilski and Rand Warsaw, then left Equitable and formed their own company, WeatherWise USA. Rand Warsaw is now CEO of the company. They have further developed the product and now offer a variety of fixed bill plans to energy companies under license. The energy companies, in turn, offer the plans to their customers.\n\nOn April 16, 1996, Equitable Gas filed a patent application on their process. The inventors were Equitable employees, Bernard Bilski and Rand Warsaw. The title was “Energy Risk Management Method”. It had a description of a method for hedging the weather-related risk that contributes to fluctuating demand in a fixed bill pricing scheme. It has been viewed as a “pure” Business method patent and was rejected by the USPTO examiner, the USPTO board of appeals, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (case In re Bilski) and the US Supreme Court (case Bilski v. Kappos).\n\nNumerous other patent applications have been filed with several having issued. The patents cover different variations of fixed bill offerings.\n\nThe following companies design fixed bill products and license them to distributors, such as utilities:\n\n\nThe following energy companies offer fixed bill programs directly to consumers:\n\nA Fixed Bill plan is different from a more traditional Levelized Payment plan. In a Levelized Payment plan, a consumer is billed an equal amount per month for a year based on their prior energy use. At the end of the year, however, the consumer will be billed for excess energy they may have used, or get a refund if their actual energy use was less than projected.\n\nIn a Fixed Bill plan, what a consumer pays is independent of what they use.\n\nFixed bill pricing programs have been investigated by States Attorneys General when participants' bills have been higher than nonparticipants' bills. In 2007, for example, Minnesota shut down a fixed bill program run by Xcel Energy and CenterPoint Energy when most participants paid higher than average bills for four out of five years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11593", "title": "Flat Earth", "text": "Flat Earth\n\nThe flat Earth model is an archaic conception of Earth's shape as a plane or disk. Many ancient cultures subscribed to a flat Earth cosmography, including Greece until the classical period, the Bronze Age and Iron Age civilizations of the Near East until the Hellenistic period, India until the Gupta period (early centuries AD), and China until the 17th century.\n\nThe idea of a spherical Earth appeared in Greek philosophy with Pythagoras (6th century BC), although most pre-Socratics (6th–5th century BC) retained the flat Earth model. Aristotle provided evidence for the spherical shape of the Earth on empirical grounds by around 330 BC. Knowledge of the spherical Earth gradually began to spread beyond the Hellenistic world from then on.\n\nIn the modern era, pseudoscientific flat Earth theories have been espoused by modern flat Earth societies and, increasingly, by unaffiliated individuals using social media.\n\nIn early Egyptian and Mesopotamian thought, the world was portrayed as a disk floating in the ocean. A similar model is found in the Homeric account from the 8th century BC in which \"Okeanos, the personified body of water surrounding the circular surface of the Earth, is the begetter of all life and possibly of all gods.\"\n\nThe Israelites also imagined the Earth to be a disc floating on water; an arched firmament separated the Earth from the heavens. Like most ancient peoples, the Hebrews believed the sky was a solid dome with the Sun, Moon, planets, and stars embedded in it.\n\nThe Pyramid Texts and Coffin Texts of ancient Egypt show a similar cosmography; Nun (the Ocean) encircled \"nbwt\" (\"dry lands\" or \"Islands\").\n\nBoth Homer and Hesiod described a disc cosmography on the Shield of Achilles.\nThis poetic tradition of an Earth-encircling (\"gaiaokhos\") sea (Oceanus) and a disc also appears in Stasinus of Cyprus, Mimnermus, Aeschylus, and Apollonius Rhodius.\n\nHomer's description of the disc cosmography on the shield of Achilles with the encircling ocean is repeated far later in Quintus Smyrnaeus' \"Posthomerica\" (4th century AD), which continues the narration of the Trojan War.\n\nSeveral pre-Socratic philosophers believed that the world was flat: Thales (c. 550 BC) according to several sources,\nand Leucippus (c. 440 BC) and Democritus (c. 460–370 BC) according to Aristotle.\n\nThales thought the Earth floated in water like a log. It has been argued, however, that Thales actually believed in a round Earth. Anaximander (c. 550 BC) believed the Earth was a short cylinder with a flat, circular top that remained stable because it was the same distance from all things. Anaximenes of Miletus believed that \"the Earth is flat and rides on air; in the same way the sun and the moon and the other heavenly bodies, which are all fiery, ride the air because of their flatness.\" Xenophanes of Colophon (c. 500 BC) thought that the Earth was flat, with its upper side touching the air, and the lower side extending without limit.\n\nBelief in a flat Earth continued into the 5th century BC. Anaxagoras (c. 450 BC) agreed that the Earth was flat, and his pupil Archelaus believed that the flat Earth was depressed in the middle like a saucer, to allow for the fact that the Sun does not rise and set at the same time for everyone.\n\nHecataeus of Miletus believed the Earth was flat and surrounded by water. Herodotus in his \"Histories\" ridiculed the belief that water encircled the world, yet most classicists agree he still believed the Earth was flat because of his descriptions of literal \"ends\" or \"edges\" of the Earth.\n\nThe ancient Norse and Germanic peoples believed in a flat Earth cosmography with the Earth surrounded by an ocean, with the axis mundi, a world tree (Yggdrasil), or pillar (Irminsul) in the centre. In the world-encircling ocean sat a snake called Jormungandr. The Norse creation account preserved in Gylfaginning (VIII) states that during the creation of the Earth, an impassable sea was placed around it:\n\nThe late Norse Konungs skuggsjá, on the other hand, infers a spherical Earth:\n\nIn ancient China, the prevailing belief was that the Earth was flat and square, while the heavens were round, an assumption virtually unquestioned until the introduction of European astronomy in the 17th century. The English sinologist Cullen emphasizes the point that there was no concept of a round Earth in ancient Chinese astronomy:\nChinese thought on the form of the Earth remained almost unchanged from early times until the first contacts with modern science through the medium of Jesuit missionaries in the seventeenth century. While the heavens were variously described as being like an umbrella covering the Earth (the Kai Tian theory), or like a sphere surrounding it (the Hun Tian theory), or as being without substance while the heavenly bodies float freely (the Hsüan yeh theory), the Earth was at all times flat, although perhaps bulging up slightly.\nThe model of an egg was often used by Chinese astronomers such as Zhang Heng (78–139 AD) to describe the heavens as spherical:\nThis analogy with a curved egg led some modern historians, notably Joseph Needham, to conjecture that Chinese astronomers were, after all, aware of the Earth's sphericity. The egg reference, however, was rather meant to clarify the relative position of the flat Earth to the heavens:\n\nIn a passage of Zhang Heng's cosmogony not translated by Needham, Zhang himself says: \"Heaven takes its body from the Yang, so it is round and in motion. Earth takes its body from the Yin, so it is flat and quiescent\". The point of the egg analogy is simply to stress that the Earth is completely enclosed by Heaven, rather than merely covered from above as the Kai Tian describes. Chinese astronomers, many of them brilliant men by any standards, continued to think in flat-Earth terms until the seventeenth century; this surprising fact might be the starting-point for a re-examination of the apparent facility with which the idea of a spherical Earth found acceptance in fifth-century BC Greece.\nFurther examples cited by Needham supposed to demonstrate dissenting voices from the ancient Chinese consensus actually refer without exception to the Earth being square, not to it being flat. Accordingly, the 13th-century scholar Li Ye, who argued that the movements of the round heaven would be hindered by a square Earth, did not advocate a spherical Earth, but rather that its edge should be rounded off so as to be circular. However, Needham disagrees, affirming that Li Ye believed the Earth to be spherical, similar in shape to the heavens but much smaller. This was preconceived by the 4th-century scholar Yu Xi, who argued for the infinity of outer space surrounding the Earth and that the latter could be either square or round, in accordance to the shape of the heavens. When Chinese geographers of the 17th century, influenced by European cartography and astronomy, showed the Earth as a sphere that could be circumnavigated by sailing around the globe, they did so with formulaic terminology previously used by Zhang Heng to describe the spherical shape of the sun and moon (i.e. that they were as round as a crossbow bullet).\n\nAs noted in the book \"Huainanzi\", in the 2nd century BC, Chinese astronomers effectively inverted Eratosthenes' calculation of the curvature of the Earth to calculate the height of the sun above the Earth. By assuming the Earth was flat, they arrived at a distance of 100,000 \"li\" (approximately 200,000 km). The \"Zhoubi Suanjing\" also discusses how to determine the distance of the Sun by measuring the length of noontime shadows at different latitudes, a method similar to Eratosthenes' measurement of the circumference of the Earth, but the \"Zhoubi Suanjing\" assumes that the Earth is flat.\n\nPythagoras in the 6th century BC and Parmenides in the 5th century stated that the Earth is spherical, and this view spread rapidly in the Greek world. Around 330 BC, Aristotle maintained on the basis of physical theory and observational evidence that the Earth was spherical, and reported an estimate of its circumference. The Earth's circumference was first determined around 240 BC by Eratosthenes. By the second century AD, Ptolemy had derived his maps from a globe and developed the system of latitude, longitude, and climes. His \"Almagest\" was written in Greek and only translated into Latin in the 11th century from Arabic translations.\n\nLucretius (1st century BC) opposed the concept of a spherical Earth, because he considered that an infinite universe had no center towards which heavy bodies would tend. Thus, he thought the idea of animals walking around topsy-turvy under the Earth was absurd. By the 1st century AD, Pliny the Elder was in a position to claim that everyone agreed on the spherical shape of Earth, though disputes continued regarding the nature of the antipodes, and how it is possible to keep the ocean in a curved shape. Pliny also considered the possibility of an imperfect sphere \"shaped like a pinecone\".\n\nIn late antiquity, such widely read encyclopedists as Macrobius and Martianus Capella (both 5th century AD) discussed the circumference of the sphere of the Earth, its central position in the universe, the difference of the seasons in northern and southern hemispheres, and many other geographical details. In his commentary on Cicero's \"Dream of Scipio\", Macrobius described the Earth as a globe of insignificant size in comparison to the remainder of the cosmos.\n\nThe Vedic texts depict the cosmos in many ways. The earliest Indian cosmological texts picture the Earth as one of a stack of flat disks.\n\nIn the Vedic texts, Dyaus (heaven) and Prithvi (Earth) are compared to wheels on an axle, yielding a flat model. They are also described as bowls or leather bags, yielding a concave model. According to Macdonell: \"the conception of the Earth being a disc surrounded by an ocean does not appear in the Samhitas. But it was naturally regarded as circular, being compared with a wheel (10.89) and expressly called circular (parimandala) in the \"Shatapatha Brahmana\".\"\n\nBy about the 5th century CE, the \"siddhanta\" astronomy texts of South Asia, particularly of Aryabhata, assume a spherical Earth as they develop mathematical methods for quantitative astronomy for calendar and time keeping.\n\nThe medieval Indian texts called the Puranas describe the Earth as a flat-bottomed, circular disk with concentric oceans and continents. This general scheme is present not only in the Hindu cosmologies but also in Buddhist and Jain cosmologies of South Asia. However, some Puranas include other models. For example, the fifth canto of the \"Bhagavata Purana\", includes sections that describe the Earth both as flat and spherical.\n\nIt has long been debated how and when the spherical conception arose in Indian astronomical models. Detailed records, particularly about the observational practices have not survived. The Greek text which possibly influenced the Indian astronomers in early medieval period is also unknown, and there is \"no textual evidence for any significant transmissions of Western astronomy between the early first millennium and the early second\". While the textual evidence has not survived, the precision of the constants used in pre-Greek \"Vedanga\" models, and the model's accuracy in predicting moon and sun's motion for Vedic rituals, probably came from direct astronomical observations. The cosmographic theories and assumptions in ancient India likely developed independently and in parallel, but these were influenced by some unknown quantitative Greek astronomy text in the medieval era.\n\nDuring the early Church period, the spherical view continued to be widely held, with some notable exceptions.\n\nEarly Christian beliefs mention a number of ideas about the shape of the Earth. Athenagoras, an eastern Christian writing around the year 175 CE said, \"The world, being made spherical, is confined within the circles of heaven.\" Methodius (c. 290 AD), an eastern Christian writing against \"the theory of the Chaldeans and the Egyptians\" who asserted that the Earth was spherical said, \"Let us first lay bare ... the theory of the Chaldeans and the Egyptians. They say that the circumference of the universe is likened to the turnings of a well-rounded globe, the Earth being a central point. They say that since its outline is spherical, ... the Earth should be the center of the universe, around which the heaven is whirling.\" Lactantius, a western Christian writer and advisor to the first Christian Roman Emperor, Constantine, and writing sometime between 304–313 CE, ridiculed the notion of Antipodes and the philosophers who fancied that \"the universe is round like a ball. They also thought that heaven revolves in accordance with the motion of the heavenly bodies. ... For that reason, they constructed brass globes, as though after the figure of the universe. ... I am at a loss as to what to say concerning those who, once they have erred, continue in their folly, defending one vain thing by another vain thing.\" Arnobius, another eastern Christian writing sometime around 305 CE, said, \"In the first place, indeed, the world itself is neither right nor left. It has neither upper nor lower regions, nor front nor back. For whatever is round and bounded on every side by the circumference of a solid sphere, has no beginning or end ...\"\n\nThe influential theologian and philosopher Saint Augustine, one of the four Great Church Fathers of the Western Church, similarly objected to the \"fable\" of an inhabited Antipodes:\nThe view generally accepted by scholars of Augustine's work is that he shared the common view of his contemporaries that the Earth is spherical, in line with his endorsement of science in \"De Genesi ad litteram\". That view has been challenged:\n\nYet other historians, however, do not view Augustine's scriptural commentaries as endorsing any particular cosmological model.\nDiodorus of Tarsus, a leading figure in the School of Antioch and mentor of John Chrysostom, may have argued for a flat Earth; however, Diodorus' opinion on the matter is known only from a later criticism. Chrysostom, one of the four Great Church Fathers of the Eastern Church and Archbishop of Constantinople, explicitly espoused the idea, based on scripture, that the Earth floats miraculously on the water beneath the firmament. Athanasius the Great, Church Father and Patriarch of Alexandria, expressed a similar view in \"Against the Heathen\".\n\n\"Christian Topography\" (547) by the Alexandrian monk Cosmas Indicopleustes, who had travelled as far as Sri Lanka and the source of the Blue Nile, is now widely considered the most valuable geographical document of the early medieval age, although it received relatively little attention from contemporaries. In it, the author repeatedly expounds the doctrine that the universe consists of only two places, the Earth below the firmament and heaven above it. Carefully drawing on arguments from scripture, he describes the Earth as a rectangle, 400 days' journey long by 200 wide, surrounded by four oceans and enclosed by four massive walls which support the firmament. The spherical Earth theory is contemptuously dismissed as \"pagan\".\n\nSeverian, Bishop of Gabala (d. 408), wrote that the Earth is flat and the sun does not pass under it in the night, but \"travels through the northern parts as if hidden by a wall\". Basil of Caesarea (329–379) argued that the matter was theologically irrelevant.\n\nEarly medieval Christian writers in the early Middle Ages felt little urge to assume flatness of the Earth, though they had fuzzy impressions of the writings of Ptolemy and Aristotle, relying more on Pliny.\n\nWith the end of the Western Roman Empire, Western Europe entered the Middle Ages with great difficulties that affected the continent's intellectual production. Most scientific treatises of classical antiquity (in Greek) were unavailable, leaving only simplified summaries and compilations. In contrast, the Eastern Roman Empire did not fall, and it preserved the learning. Still, many textbooks of the Early Middle Ages supported the sphericity of the Earth in the western part of Europe. For example: some early medieval manuscripts of Macrobius include maps of the Earth, including the antipodes, zonal maps showing the Ptolemaic climates derived from the concept of a spherical Earth and a diagram showing the Earth (labeled as \"globus terrae\", the sphere of the Earth) at the center of the hierarchically ordered planetary spheres. Further examples of such medieval diagrams can be found in medieval manuscripts of the Dream of Scipio. In the Carolingian era, scholars discussed Macrobius's view of the antipodes. One of them, the Irish monk Dungal, asserted that the tropical gap between our habitable region and the other habitable region to the south was smaller than Macrobius had believed.\nEurope's view of the shape of the Earth in Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages may be best expressed by the writings of early Christian scholars:\n\nA possible non-literary but graphic indication that people in the Middle Ages believed that the Earth (or perhaps the world) was a sphere is the use of the \"orb\" (globus cruciger) in the regalia of many kingdoms and of the Holy Roman Empire. It is attested from the time of the Christian late-Roman emperor Theodosius II (423) throughout the Middle Ages; the \"Reichsapfel\" was used in 1191 at the coronation of emperor Henry VI. However the word 'orbis' means 'circle' and there is no record of a globe as a representation of the Earth since ancient times in the west till that of Martin Behaim in 1492. Additionally it could well be a representation of the entire 'world' or cosmos.\n\nA recent study of medieval concepts of the sphericity of the Earth noted that \"since the eighth century, no cosmographer worthy of note has called into question the sphericity of the Earth\". However, the work of these intellectuals may not have had significant influence on public opinion, and it is difficult to tell what the wider population may have thought of the shape of the Earth, if they considered the question at all.\n\nHermannus Contractus (1013–1054) was among the earliest Christian scholars to estimate the circumference of Earth with Eratosthenes' method. St. Thomas Aquinas (1225–1274), the most important and widely taught theologian of the Middle Ages, believed in a spherical Earth; and he even took for granted his readers also knew the Earth is round. In \"Summa Theologiae\" he wrote: \"The physicist proves the Earth to be round by one means, the astronomer by another: for the latter proves this by means of mathematics, e. g. by the shapes of eclipses, or something of the sort; while the former proves it by means of physics, e. g. by the movement of heavy bodies towards the center, and so forth.\" Lectures in the medieval universities commonly advanced evidence in favor of the idea that the Earth was a sphere. Also, \"On the Sphere of the World\", an influential astronomy textbook of the 13th century, commonly studied by students at Western European universities, described the world as a sphere.\nThe shape of the Earth was not only discussed in scholarly works written in Latin; it was also treated in works written in vernacular languages or dialects and intended for wider audiences. The Norwegian book Konungs Skuggsjá, from around 1250, states clearly that the Earth is spherical – and that there is night on the opposite side of the Earth when there is daytime in Norway. The author also discusses the existence of antipodes – and he notes that (if they exist) they see the Sun in the north of the middle of the day, and that they experience seasons opposite those of people in the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nHowever Tattersall shows that in many vernacular works in 12th- and 13th-century French texts the Earth was considered \"round like a table\" rather than \"round like an apple\". \"In virtually all the examples quoted ... from epics and from non-'historical' romances (that is, works of a less learned character) the actual form of words used suggests strongly a circle rather than a sphere\", though he notes that even in these works the language is ambiguous.\n\nPortuguese navigation down and around the coast of Africa in the latter half of the 1400s gave wide-scale observational evidence for Earth's sphericity. In these explorations, the sun's position moved more northward the further south the explorers travel. Its position directly overhead at noon gave evidence for crossing the equator. These apparent solar motions in detail were more consistent with north-south curvature and a distant sun, than with any flat-Earth explanation. The ultimate demonstration came when Ferdinand Magellan's expedition completed the first global circumnavigation in 1521. Antonio Pigafetta, one of the few survivors of the voyage, recorded the loss of a day in the course of the voyage, giving evidence for east-west curvature. No flat-Earth theory could reconcile the daily apparent motions of the sun with the ability to sail around the world, and the loss of a day could make no sense, either.\n\nThe Abbasid Caliphate saw a great flowering of astronomy and mathematics in the 9th century AD. Muslim scholars of the past believed in a spherical Earth.\n\nThe Quran mentions that the Earth (\"al-arḍ\") was \"spread out\". To this 12th-century commentary, the Tafsir al-Kabir (al-Razi) by Fakhr al-din al-Razi, states \"If it is said: Do the words 'And the Earth We spread out' indicate that it is flat? We would respond: Yes, because the Earth, even though it is round, is an enormous sphere, and each little part of this enormous sphere, when it is looked at, appears to be flat. As that is the case, this will dispel what they mentioned of confusion. The evidence for that is the verse in which Allah says (interpretation of the meaning): 'And the mountains as pegs' [an-Naba’ 78:7]. He called them \"awtaad\" (pegs) even though these mountains may have large flat surfaces. And the same is true in this case.\"\n\nThe 11th-century scholar Ibn Hazm stated, \"Evidence shows that the Earth is a sphere but public people say the opposite.\" He added, \"None of those who deserve being Imams for Muslims has denied that Earth is round. And we have not received anything indicates a denial, not even a single word.\"\n\nScholar Ibn Taymiyyah stated that the Earth is spherical and not flat. He stated that the Arabic word \"falak (\") refers to that which is round. Ibn Abbas said it is like that of a spinning wheel. The word is used in and . The scholar Al-Suyuti stated that the belief in a flat Earth is a deviation.\n\nA spherical terrestrial globe was introduced to Yuan-era Khanbaliq (i.e. Beijing) in 1267 by the Persian astronomer Jamal ad-Din, but it is not known to have made an impact on the traditional Chinese conception of the shape of the Earth. As late as 1595, an early Jesuit missionary to China, Matteo Ricci, recorded that the Ming-dynasty Chinese say: \"The Earth is flat and square, and the sky is a round canopy; they did not succeed in conceiving the possibility of the antipodes.\" The universal belief in a flat Earth is confirmed by a contemporary Chinese encyclopedia from 1609 illustrating a flat Earth extending over the horizontal diametral plane of a spherical heaven.\n\nIn the 17th century, the idea of a spherical Earth spread in China due to the influence of the Jesuits, who held high positions as astronomers at the imperial court. Matteo Ricci, in collaboration with Chinese cartographers and translator Li Zhizao, published the \"Kunyu Wanguo Quantu\" in 1602, the first Chinese world map based on European discoveries. The astronomical and geographical treatise \"Gezhicao\" (格致草) written in 1648 by Xiong Mingyu (熊明遇) explained that the Earth was spherical, not flat or square, and could be circumnavigated.\n\nBeginning in the 19th century, a historical myth arose which held that the predominant cosmological doctrine during the Middle Ages was that the Earth was flat. An early proponent of this myth was the American writer Washington Irving, who maintained that Christopher Columbus had to overcome the opposition of churchmen to gain sponsorship for his voyage of exploration. Later significant advocates of this view were John William Draper and Andrew Dickson White, who used it as a major element in their advocacy of the thesis that there was a long lasting and essential conflict between science and religion. Subsequent studies of medieval science have shown that most scholars in the Middle Ages, including those read by Christopher Columbus, maintained that the Earth was spherical. Some studies of the historical connections between science and religion have demonstrated that theories of their mutual antagonism ignore examples of their mutual support.\n\nIn the modern era, the pseudoscientific belief in a flat Earth has been expressed by a variety of individuals and groups:\n\nIn 1956, Samuel Shenton set up the \"International Flat Earth Research Society\" (IFERS), better known as the Flat Earth Society from Dover, UK, as a direct descendant of the Universal Zetetic Society. This was just before the Soviet Union launched the first artificial satellite, Sputnik; he responded, \"Would sailing round the Isle of Wight prove that it were spherical? It is just the same for those satellites.\"\n\nHis primary aim was to reach children before they were convinced about a spherical Earth. Despite plenty of publicity, the space race eroded Shenton's support in Britain until 1967 when he started to become famous due to the Apollo program.\n\nIn 1972 Shenton's role was taken over by Charles K. Johnson, a correspondent from California, US. He incorporated the IFERS and steadily built up the membership to about 3,000. He spent years examining the studies of flat and round Earth theories and proposed evidence of a conspiracy against flat Earth: \"The idea of a spinning globe is only a conspiracy of error that Moses, Columbus, and FDR all fought...\" His article was published in the magazine \"Science Digest\", 1980. It goes on to state, \"If it is a sphere, the surface of a large body of water must be curved. The Johnsons have checked the surfaces of Lake Tahoe and the Salton Sea without detecting any curvature.\"\n\nThe Society declined in the 1990s following a fire at its headquarters in California and the death of Johnson in 2001. It was revived as a website in 2004 by Daniel Shenton (no relation to Samuel Shenton). He believes that no one has provided proof that the world is not flat.\n\nIn the modern era, the proliferation of communications technology and social media platforms such as YouTube, Facebook and Twitter have given individuals, famous or otherwise, a platform to spread pseudo-scientific ideas and build stronger followings. The flat-Earth conjecture has flourished in this environment.\n\nThe solar eclipse of August 21, 2017, gave rise to numerous YouTube videos purporting to show how the details of the eclipse prove the Earth is flat. Also in 2017, a scandal developed in Arab scientific and educational circles when a Tunisian PhD student submitted a thesis declaring Earth to be flat, unmoving, the center of the universe, and only 13,500 years old.\n\nThe term \"flat-Earther\" is often used in a derogatory sense to mean anyone who holds ridiculously antiquated views. The first use of the term \"flat-Earther\" recorded by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" is in 1934 in \"Punch\": \"Without being a bigoted flat-earther, [Mercator] perceived the nuisance ... of fiddling about with globes ... in order to discover the South Seas.\" The term \"flat-earth-man\" was recorded in 1908: \"Fewer votes than one would have thought possible for any human candidate, were he even a flat-earth-man.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7053593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7053593", "title": "Geocorona", "text": "Geocorona\n\nThe geocorona is the luminous part of the outermost region of the Earth's atmosphere, the exosphere. It is seen primarily via far-ultraviolet light (Lyman-alpha) from the Sun that is scattered from neutral hydrogen. It extends to at least 15.5 Earth radii. The geocorona has been studied from outer space by the Astrid satellites and the Galileo spacecraft (among others), using its ultraviolet spectrometer (UVS) during an Earth flyby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25350513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25350513", "title": "Grane oil field", "text": "Grane oil field\n\nGrane () is an offshore oil field in the North Sea located west of the city of Haugesund on the western coast of Norway. It is Norway's first heavy crude oil production field and Statoil's largest heavy oil field in the Norwegian continental shelf. The oil from the field, located in Block 25/11 is transported to Sture terminal via Grane oil pipeline. The injection gas is imported to Grane oil field from the Heimdal, located just north the field.\n\nThe Grane field is operated by Statoil. Statoil holds 38%, Petoro – 30%, ExxonMobil – 25.60%, ConocoPhillips – 6.40%.\n\nThe field lies in of water at total depth of . The reservoir is nearly and has an average pay thickness of with an average porosity of 33% and permeability of 5–10 Darcies. The reservoir consists of sandstones of Heimdal formation of Paleocene age, Lista formation and has high viscosity.\n\nNorsk Hydro and partners started development of the field in 1991. The Grane field started producing in September 2003. 31 production wells were put into operation.\nThe facility was designed by Aker Solutions Engineering in 2000-2003.\n\nIn Grane oil field, Norsk Hydro used the technology applied its Troll and Oseberg fields to maximize production in Grane. An estimated is expected to be produced by the field with . With the first horizontal well drilled, Hydro already reached a peak production by 10 March 2006 setting a record at which exceeded the initially established field plan by about . From then on, the field supplied the market an average .\nThe company expects 55% recovery from the field. This makes Grane third of the size of Oseberg and twice the size of Brage. There is no gas cap in Grane field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21549777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21549777", "title": "Hawaiian tropical dry forests", "text": "Hawaiian tropical dry forests\n\nThe Hawaiian tropical dry forests are a tropical dry broadleaf forest ecoregion in the Hawaiian Islands. They cover an area of on the leeward side of the main islands and the summits of Niihau and Kahoolawe. These forests are either seasonal or sclerophyllous. Annual rainfall is less than and may be as low as ; the rainy season lasts from November to March. Dominant tree species include koa (\"Acacia koa\"), koaia (\"A. koaia\"), akoko (\"Euphorbia\" spp.), ōhia lehua (\"Metrosideros polymorpha\"), lonomea (\"Sapindus oahuensis\"), māmane (\"Sophora chrysophylla\"), loulu (\"Pritchardia\" spp.), lama (\"Diospyros sandwicensis\"), olopua (\"Nestegis sandwicensis\"), wiliwili (\"Erythrina sandwicensis\"), and iliahi (\"Santalum\" spp.). Endemic plant species in the dry forests include hau heleula (\"Kokia cookei\"), uhiuhi (\"Caesalpinia kavaiensis\"), and \"Gouania\" spp. The palila (\"Loxioides bailleui\"), a Hawaiian honeycreeper, is restricted to this type of habitat.\n\nThe plant composition of Hawaii's dry forests has changed rather dramatically since the arrival of Polynesians, excluding the deliberate introduction of non-native species. Fossilized pollen has shown that loulu (\"Pritchardia\" spp.) forests with an understory of Ka palupalu o Kanaloa (\"Kanaloa kahoolawensis\") and aalii (\"Dodonaea viscosa\") existed on the islands' leeward lowlands from at least before 1210 B.C. until 1565 A.D. Populations of loulu and aalii still exist in diminished form, while only two Ka palupalu o Kanaloa specimens have ever been seen in the wild.\n\nThe Auwahi Dryland Forest Restoration Project has produced a substantial forest on the slopes of Haleakala on the island of Maui.\n\n"}
{"id": "45288684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45288684", "title": "Hero Found: The Greatest POW Escape of the Vietnam War", "text": "Hero Found: The Greatest POW Escape of the Vietnam War\n\nHero Found: The Greatest POW Escape of the Vietnam War is a 2010 non-fiction book by author Bruce Henderson. \"Hero Found\" is a biography of Vietnam War hero Dieter Dengler, a German-born United States Navy naval aviator who endured six months of imprisonment and torture before being rescued. Dengler survived 23 days in the jungle after escaping from a Pathet Lao prison camp.\n\nDieter Dengler's survival skills are established at an early age growing up in the chaos of World War II Germany. After his father is killed in the war, his mother teaches Dieter and his brothers how to survive on their own in the forest. Dieter learns what foods are safe to eat and how to find shelter from the elements. His lifelong love of aviation begins as he observes an Allied fighter fly past at tree-top level with the pilot wearing goggles and a white scarf. At sixteen, Dieter decides to move to America to become a pilot. Surviving on his wits and with little money, Dieter sails to New York City aboard SS \"America\". He joins the U.S. Navy and becomes a naval aviator. After additional flight training, Dengler is assigned to VA-145 flying the Douglas A-1 Skyraider aboard . In January 1966, \"Ranger\" reaches the coast of Vietnam to conduct combat operations.\n\nOn February 1, 1966, Dieter is shot down during a mission into Laos and crash-lands in a jungle clearing. A day later, he is captured by the Pathet Lao. Dieter is beaten by his captors and forced to march through the jungle for over a week. After refusing to sign papers denouncing the United States, he is beaten into unconsciousness. As the forced march continues, Dieter escapes but is recaptured and tortured. Two weeks after his crash-landing, Dieter arrives at a Prisoner of War (POW) camp having marched 85 miles. Here he meets other prisoners including Dwayne Martin, Prasit Thanee, Phisit Intharathat, To Yick Chiu, and Eugene DeBruin, some of whom have been imprisoned for two and a half years. The group endures illness, starvation, and brutal treatment waiting for the monsoon season when there will be enough water to sustain them during an escape. The rains do not come on time and conditions deteriorate at the camp to a point where the guards plan to kill the prisoners and return home. On June 29, 1966, the prisoners decide to attempt their escape. A fight ensues leaving many of the guards dead. The group splits up with Dieter and Dwayne marching into the forest toward Thailand. The monsoon rains start, but the pair are soon lost and gradually weaken as they struggle through the jungle. They surprise a villager who decapitates Dwayne with a machete. Dieter is pursued by the villagers and Pathet Lao but manages to avoid them. He continues to weaken and begins to hallucinate. Near the end of his strength, Dieter rests on a rock and sees a United States Air Force Skyraider flying towards him. Dieter signals the aircraft and is spotted by the pilot, Eugene Deatrick, who persists in calling a rescue despite the possibility that this could be a trap. On July 20, 1966, Dieter is finally rescued from his ordeal after 23 days in the jungle and six months after he was shot down.\n\nDieter is reunited with his comrades on \"Ranger\" and begins the long recovery to health. His story of survival and endurance is widely reported in the press and celebrated by the U.S. government. Dieter is awarded the Navy Cross for extraordinary heroism. He leaves military service and enjoys the life he so nearly lost. In 2000, Dieter is diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and gradually loses his mobility and ability to speak. Dieter tells his wife that the disease is worse than the prison camp in Laos. On February 7, 2001, Dieter commits suicide to escape from a disease that would cage him in his own body. In March 2001, Dieter is buried in Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors.\n\n\"Hero Found\" received positive reviews. \"Kirkus Reviews\" called the book \"a short but engaging tale of a harrowing POW experience.\" \"Publishers Weekly\" stated \"This often riveting account sheds new light on an oft-told true story.\" \"Audiofile\" observed \"Narrator Todd McLaren delivers the many scenes of aerial action and combat with enthusiasm and excitement. His animated involvement adds a special spark to a work already compelling from beginning to end.\"\n\n\"Hero Found\" was released in hardcover, paperback, e-book, and audiobook editions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "625445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625445", "title": "John Richardson (naturalist)", "text": "John Richardson (naturalist)\n\nSir John Richardson FRS FRSE FLS FGS MWS LLD (5 November 1787 – 5 June 1865) was a Scottish naval surgeon, naturalist and arctic explorer.\n\nRichardson was born at Nith Place in Dumfries the son of Gabriel Richardson, Provost of Dumfries, and his wife, Anne Mundell. He was educated at Dumfries Grammar School. He was then apprenticed to his maternal uncle, Dr James Mundell, a surgeon in Dumfries.\n\nHe studied medicine at Edinburgh University, and became a surgeon in the navy in 1807. He traveled with John Franklin in search of the Northwest Passage on the Coppermine Expedition of 1819–1822. Richardson wrote the sections on geology, botany and ichthyology for the official account of the expedition.\n\nFranklin and Richardson returned to Canada in 1825 and went overland by fur trade routes to the mouth of the Mackenzie River. Franklin was to go as far west as possible and Richardson was to go east to the mouth of the Coppermine River. These were the only known points on the central coast and had been reached in 1793 and 1771 respectively. He had with him two specially-built boats which were more ocean-worthy than the voyageur canoes used by Franklin on his previous expedition. They gave their names to the Dolphin and Union Strait near the end of his route. \n\nHis journey was successful and he reached his furthest east the same day that Franklin reached his furthest west (16 August 1826). He abandoned his boats at Bloody Falls and trekked overland to Fort Franklin which he reached three weeks before Franklin. Together they had surveyed 1,878 miles of previously unmapped coast. The natural history discoveries of this expedition were so great that they had to be recorded in two separate works, the \"Flora Boreali-Americana\" (1833–40), written by William Jackson Hooker, and the \"Fauna Boreali-Americana\" (1829–37), written by Richardson, William John Swainson, John Edward Gray and William Kirby.\n\nAt the British Association for the Advancement of Science meeting in 1842, Richardson described the diving apparatus and treatment of diver Roderick Cameron following an injury that occurred on 14 October 1841 during the salvage operations on .\n\nRichardson was knighted by Queen Victoria in 1846. He traveled with John Rae on an unsuccessful search for Franklin in 1848–49, describing it in \"An Arctic Searching Expedition\" (1851). \n\nHe retired to the Lake District in 1855.\n\nHe died at his home Lancrigg House north of Grasmere on 5 June 1865, and is buried at St Oswald's Church, Grasmere.\n\nHe married three times: firstly in 1818 to Mary Stiven; secondly in 1833 to Mary Booth; and finally in 1847 to Mary Fletcher.\n\nHe also wrote accounts dealing with the natural history, and especially the ichthyology, of several other Arctic voyages, and was the author of \"Icones Piscium\" (1843), \"Catalogue of Apodal Fish in the British Museum\" (1856), the second edition of Yarrell's \"History of British Fishes\" (1860), \"The Polar Regions\" (1861). and \"Arctic Ordeal: The Journal of John Richardson\" Edited by C. Stuart Houston (1984). The National Marine Biological Library at the Marine Biological Association retains some original illustrations used by Richardson in preparation for the second edition of Yarrell's book.\n\nRichardson is commemorated in the scientific names of four species of reptiles: \"Eremiascincus richardsonii, Hemidactylus richardsonii, Myron richardsonii\", and \"Sphaerodactylus richardsonii\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56550601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56550601", "title": "List of Ceratophysella species", "text": "List of Ceratophysella species\n\nThis is a list of 104 species in the genus \"Ceratophysella\".\n"}
{"id": "3291137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3291137", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on roses", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on roses\n\nRoses (\"Rosa\" species) are used as food plants by the caterpillars (larvae) of a number of Lepidoptera species, including:\n\nSpecies that feed exclusively on \"Rosa\"\n\nSpecies that feed on \"Rosa\" and other plants\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3238702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3238702", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on spruces", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on spruces\n\nSpruces, \"Picea\" species, are used as food plants by the caterpillars of many species of Lepidoptera. The Database of the World's Lepidopteran Hostplants (HOSTS) lists over 1,000 species of Lepidoptera (See External links).\n\nA few examples are listed below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5874473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5874473", "title": "List of Philodromidae species", "text": "List of Philodromidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Philodromidae as of December 16, 2013.\n\n\"Apollophanes\" \n\n\"Bacillocnemis\" \n\n\"Berlandiella\" \n\n\"Cleocnemis\" \n\n\"Ebo\" \n\n\"Eminella\" \n\n\"Fageia\" \n\n\"Gephyrellula\" \n\n\"Gephyrina\" \n\n\"Gephyrota\" \n\n\"Halodromus\" \n\n\"Hirriusa\" \n\n\"Metacleocnemis\" \n\n\"Pagiopalus\" \n\n\"Paracleocnemis\" \n\n\"Pedinopistha\" \n\n\"Petrichus\" \n\n\"Philodromops\" \n\n\"Philodromus\" \n\n\"Procleocnemis\" \n\n\"Psellonus\" \n\n\"Pseudopsellonus\" \n\n\"Suemus\" \n\n\"Thanatus\" \n\n\"Tibellus\" \n\n\"Tibitanus\" \n\n\"Titanebo\" \n\n\"Vacchellia\" \n\n"}
{"id": "15816562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15816562", "title": "List of ecoregions in Russia", "text": "List of ecoregions in Russia\n\nThe following is a list of ecoregions in Russia, according to the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27350732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27350732", "title": "List of invasive species in Australia", "text": "List of invasive species in Australia\n\nThis is a list of some of the more notable invasive species in Australia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42853443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42853443", "title": "List of mountains of the Alps (2000–2499 m)", "text": "List of mountains of the Alps (2000–2499 m)\n\nThis page contains a table listing by elevation, mountains of the Alps that are between 2000 and 2499 metres high and have a topographic prominence of at least . The list is a continuation of the List of mountains of the Alps (2500-2999 m) and List of mountains of the Alps above 3000 m, which page contains an introduction with statistics and an explanation of the criteria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34671494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34671494", "title": "List of rivers of Israel", "text": "List of rivers of Israel\n\nThis is a list of rivers in Israel. This list is arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.\n\nListed from north to south.\n\n\nListed clockwise from the Jordan River.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48212611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48212611", "title": "List of star systems within 55–60 light-years", "text": "List of star systems within 55–60 light-years\n\nThis is a list of star systems within 55-60 light years of Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "8591658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591658", "title": "List of stars in Dorado", "text": "List of stars in Dorado\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Dorado, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21030799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21030799", "title": "Longana (legendary creature)", "text": "Longana (legendary creature)\n\nThe Longana is a legendary aquatic creature of the feminine gender. The Longana appear in legends of the people living in Cadore, Italy. According to the legend, these creatures live in groups, either in coves or near cliffs.\n\nThey are similar to legends like that of the Faun as they have inferior limbs of goats. They are also depicted as intelligent and beautiful women, and they regularly converse with spirits, which explains their extraordinary knowledge of natural events.\n\nOne myth tells how one of the Longana women had decided to intermix with a man, and they eventually married each other, only on the condition that the man had to totally forget the woman's origins. Eventually, the couple prosper as the woman had somehow interfered with their farming work and had made their grain aplenty. She had children and, as a result, men started calling the woman names, so she ran away leaving her husband and her children.\n"}
{"id": "46883576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46883576", "title": "Marpol Annex I", "text": "Marpol Annex I\n\nMarpol Annex I is the first implementation made by Marpol 73/78, one of the most important international marine environmental conventions. The convention was designed to minimize pollution of the seas from ships. The objective of the convention is to preserve the marine environment through the complete elimination of pollution by oil and other harmful substances and the minimization of accidental discharge of such substances. The Marpol Annex I began to be enforced on October 2, 1983, and it details the prevention of pollution by oil and oily water.\n\nMarpol Annex I details the discharge requirements for the prevention of pollution by oil and oily materials. It continues to enforce the oil discharge criteria described in the 1969 amendments to the 1954 Oil Pollution Convention. It also introduces the idea of \"special areas\" which are considered to be at risk to oil pollution. Discharge of oil within them have been completely outlawed but there are a few minor exceptions.\n\nAlso in 2003, in a joint effort IMO and MEPC came out with Circ.406 Guidelines for Application of MARPOL Annex I Requirements to FPSOs and FSUs.\n\nLater in 2006, the United States Coast Guard published Guidance for the Enforcement of MARPOL Annex I During PSC Examinations. This was a USCG policy letter that provided instruction to PSC officers with regard to Oil Record Book, Oily Water Separators, and Oil content meter inspections during PSC visits.\n\nThe first half of Marpol Annex I deals with engine room waste. There are many new technologies and equipment that have been developed to prevent waste such as: Oily water separators (OWS), Oil Content meters (OCM), and Port Reception Facilities.\n\nThe second part of the Marpol Annex I has more to do with cleaning the cargo areas and tanks. Oil Discharge Monitoring Equipment (ODME) is a technology that has greatly helped improve efficiency and environmental protection in these areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "981252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981252", "title": "Oceanic crust", "text": "Oceanic crust\n\nOceanic crust is the uppermost layer of the oceanic portion of a tectonic plate. It is composed of the upper oceanic crust, with pillow lavas and a dike complex, and the lower oceanic crust, composed of troctolite, gabbro and ultramafic cumulates. The crust overlies the solidified and uppermost layer of the mantle. The crust and the solid mantle layer together constitute oceanic lithosphere.\n\nOceanic crust is primarily composed of mafic rocks, or sima, which is rich in iron and magnesium. It is thinner than continental crust, or sial, generally less than 10 kilometers thick; however it is denser, having a mean density of about 3.0 grams per cubic centimeter as opposed to continental crust which has a density of about 2.7 grams per cubic centimeter.\n\nThe crust uppermost is the result of the cooling of magma derived from mantle material below the plate. The magma is injected into the spreading center, which consists mainly of a partly solidified crystal mush derived from earlier injections, forming magma lenses that are the source of the sheeted dikes that feed the overlying pillow lavas. As the lavas cool they are, in most instances, modified chemically by seawater. These eruptions occur mostly at mid-ocean ridges, but also at scattered hotspots, and also in rare but powerful occurrences known as flood basalt eruptions. But most magma crystallises at depth, within the lower oceanic crust. There, newly intruded magma can mix and react with pre-existing crystal mush and rocks.\n\nAlthough a complete section of oceanic crust has not yet been drilled, geologists have several pieces of evidence that help them understand the ocean floor. Estimations of composition are based on analyses of ophiolites (sections of oceanic crust that are thrust onto and preserved on the continents), comparisons of the seismic structure of the oceanic crust with laboratory determinations of seismic velocities in known rock types, and samples recovered from the ocean floor by submersibles, dredging (especially from ridge crests and fracture zones) and drilling. Oceanic crust is significantly simpler than continental crust and generally can be divided in three layers. According to mineral physics experiments, at lower mantle pressures, oceanic crust becomes denser than the surrounding mantle.\n\nThe most voluminous volcanic rocks of the ocean floor are the mid-oceanic ridge basalts, which are derived from low-potassium tholeiitic magmas. These rocks have low concentrations of large ion lithophile elements (LILE), light rare earth elements (LREE), volatile elements and other highly incompatible elements. There can be found basalts enriched with incompatible elements, but they are rare and associated with mid-ocean ridge hot spots such as surroundings of Galapagos Islands, the Azores and Iceland.\n\nPrior to the Neoproterozoic Era 1000 Ma ago as world's oceanic crust was more mafic than present-days'. The more mafic nature of the crust meant that higher amounts of water molecules (OH) could be stored the altered parts of the crust. At subduction zones this mafic crust was prone to metamorphose into greenschist instead of blueschist at ordinary blueschist facies.\n\nOceanic crust is continuously being created at mid-ocean ridges. As plates diverge at these ridges, magma rises into the upper mantle and crust. As it moves away from the ridge, the lithosphere becomes cooler and denser, and sediment gradually builds on top of it. The youngest oceanic lithosphere is at the oceanic ridges, and it gets progressively older away from the ridges.\n\nAs the mantle rises it cools and melts, as the pressure decreases and it crosses the solidus. The amount of melt produced depends only on the temperature of the mantle as it rises. Hence most oceanic crust is the same thickness (7±1 km). Very slow spreading ridges (<1 cm·yr half-rate) produce thinner crust (4–5 km thick) as the mantle has a chance to cool on upwelling and so it crosses the solidus and melts at lesser depth, thereby producing less melt and thinner crust. An example of this is the Gakkel Ridge under the Arctic Ocean. Thicker than average crust is found above plumes as the mantle is hotter and hence it crosses the solidus and melts at a greater depth, creating more melt and a thicker crust. An example of this is Iceland which has crust of thickness ~20 km.\n\nThe age of the oceanic crust can be used to estimate the (thermal) thickness of the lithosphere, where young oceanic crust has not had enough time to cool the mantle beneath it, while older oceanic crust has thicker mantle lithosphere beneath it. The oceanic lithosphere subducts at what are known as convergent boundaries. These boundaries can exist between oceanic lithosphere on one plate and oceanic lithosphere on another, or between oceanic lithosphere on one plate and continental lithosphere on another. In the second situation, the oceanic lithosphere always subducts because the continental lithosphere is less dense. The subduction process consumes older oceanic lithosphere, so oceanic crust is seldom more than 200 million years old.\nThe process of super-continent formation and destruction via repeated cycles of creation and destruction of oceanic crust is known as the Wilson cycle.\n\nThe oldest large scale oceanic crust is in the west Pacific and north-west Atlantic - both are about up to 180-200 million years old. However, parts of the eastern Mediterranean Sea are remnants of the much older Tethys ocean, at about 270 and up to 340 million years old.\n\nThe oceanic crust displays a pattern of magnetic lines, parallel to the ocean ridges, frozen in the basalt. A symmetrical pattern of positive and negative magnetic lines emanates from the mid-ocean ridge. New rock is formed by magma at the mid-ocean ridges, and the ocean floor spreads out from this point. When the magma cools to form rock, its magnetic polarity is aligned with the then-current positions of the magnetic poles of the Earth. New magma then forces the older cooled magma away from the ridge. This process results in parallel sections of oceanic crust of alternating magnetic polarity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52564751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52564751", "title": "Paris Breathes", "text": "Paris Breathes\n\nParis Breathes (in French: Paris Respire) is the name of a car-free scheme begun in May 2016 where certain roads are closed to vehicular traffic on Sundays and public holidays between the hours of 9am and 5pm. The roads closed include those by the River Seine, in the Marais, the Canal Saint Martin, Montmartre as well as roads elsewhere in the city. Cycling and walking are the main forms of getting around on these roads on these days.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1212631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1212631", "title": "Sea state", "text": "Sea state\n\nIn oceanography, a sea state is the general condition of the free surface on a large body of water—with respect to wind waves and swell—at a certain location and moment. A sea state is characterized by statistics, including the wave height, period, and power spectrum. The sea state varies with time, as the wind conditions or swell conditions change. The sea state can either be assessed by an experienced observer, like a trained mariner, or through instruments like weather buoys, wave radar or remote sensing satellites.\n\nIn case of buoy measurements, the statistics are determined for a time interval in which the sea state can be considered to be constant. This duration has to be much longer than the individual wave period, but smaller than the period in which the wind and swell conditions vary significantly. Typically, records of one hundred to one thousand wave-periods are used to determine the wave statistics.\n\nThe large number of variables involved in creating the sea state cannot be quickly and easily summarized, so simpler scales are used to give an approximate but concise description of conditions for reporting in a ship's log or similar record.\n\nThe WMO sea state code largely adopts the 'wind sea' definition of the Douglas Sea Scale.\n\nIn engineering applications, sea states are often characterized by the following two parameters:\n\n\nThe sea state is in addition to these two parameters (or variation of the two) also described by the wave spectrum formula_1 which is a function of a wave height spectrum formula_2 and a wave direction spectrum formula_3. Some wave height spectra are listed below. The dimension of the wave spectrum is formula_4, and many interesting properties about the sea state can be found from the spectrum.\n\nThe relationship between the spectrum formula_5 and the wave amplitude formula_6 for a wave component formula_7 is:\n\n\n\nwhere\n\nand\n\nAn example function formula_3 might be:\n\nThus the sea state is fully determined and can be recreated by the following function where formula_15 is the wave elevation, formula_16 is uniformly distributed between 0 and formula_17, and formula_18 is randomly drawn from the directional distribution function formula_19\n\nIn addition to the short term wave statistics presented above, long term sea state statistics are often given as a joint frequency table of the significant wave height and the mean wave period. From the long and short term statistical distributions it is possible to find the extreme values expected in the operating life of a ship. A ship designer can find the most extreme sea states (extreme values of H and T) from the joint frequency table, and from the wave spectrum the designer can find the most likely highest wave elevation in the most extreme sea states and predict the most likely highest loads on individual parts of the ship from the response amplitude operators of the ship. Surviving the once in 100 years or once in 1000 years sea state is a normal demand for design of ships and offshore structures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7832240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7832240", "title": "Shelf ice", "text": "Shelf ice\n\nShelf ice is ice that forms when a portion of a lake surface freezes. It is often then washed upon the shore. The phenomenon is common within the Great Lakes.\n\nShelf ice forms from float ice. Float ice is like drift ice, but seldom becomes large enough to support humans or large animals. The cold temperatures freeze small areas of the open lake, forming float ice. Similar ice will form along the shoreline when the lake is calm. Over time, the ice will build up from continued freezing on the open lake and from snow accumulation on the surface. The surface of the Great Lake seldom remains calm enough for the entire surface to freeze. Note: The smaller lakes, Lake St. Clair, Lake Erie, and Lake Ontario will freeze over more often than the larger upper lakes. The wind pushes the float ice and creates waves which also move the ice. Over time, the ice will accumulate on the leeward shores of the lake. Like sand, which is moved by the wind and the waves, the ice begins to accumulate along the east and southern shore of Lake Michigan. When pushed onto the beach, it remains and over time, the ice accumulates on top of the beach and the ice already pushed ashore. \n\nOn days with a strong off-shore wind, an ice sheet may reach out into the lakes as far as the eye can see. But across the lake, there is likely to be open water several miles wide.\n\nShelf ice is a floating mat of ice, but unlike a pond or a small lake that freezes over, the shelf is not a uniform sheet of ice. Created by the wind and waves, the shelf ice is a jumble of ice chunks, pushed onto each other. It is as if you took a pile of rubble and pushed up against a wall. The more you push, the narrow the pile becomes, and it rises in a ridge. But there is nothing stable in the pile. The individual pieces (ice in the case of shelf ice) are not initially connected; they only float upon the water surface and rest upon each other. Many become jammed together but throughout the structure, there are pockets of air. Since each piece of ice developed independently, each is of a different thickness, creating variations in strength, density, and depth.\n\nOver time, the 'shelf' extends out from the shore in a long-lasting floating ledge. The ledge can become very thick depending on the size of the ice pieces and the size of the air pockets. The ice sheet can be stabilized by grounding on shore or lake bottom, through additional freezing from seaspray, precipitation and undersurface ice formation and through melt/refreezing cycles from solar heating and weather variations. Therefore, an ice shelf can vary from a large flat surface to a jumbled pile of blocks with parallel ridges. \n\nWhen a 'shelf' extends out to a sand bar, a ridge will form that is higher than the rest of the shelf. If there is more than one sand bar along a beach front, the ice shelf will form a ridge along each sand bar.\n\nBecause of the uneven surface and possible air holes throughout shelf ice, the ice may give way unexpectedly. One can plummet several feet through an air pocket into open water. Self rescue is difficult due to the friability of the ice and the rate at which the cold water will sap energy. Traveling in a group with the correct ice self-rescue tools lessens the danger.\n\n"}
{"id": "3148365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3148365", "title": "Sierra de la Laguna dry forests", "text": "Sierra de la Laguna dry forests\n\nThe Sierra de la Laguna dry forests are a subtropical dry forest ecoregion of the southern Baja California Peninsula in Mexico.\n\nThe dry forests cover the lower elevations of the Sierra de la Laguna, from elevation. They are surrounded at lower elevations by the San Lucan xeric scrub, which lies between sea level and elevation. Above 800 meters elevation, the dry forests transition to the subhumid and temperate Sierra de la Laguna pine-oak forests.\n\nThe predominant tree species of the dry forests are the Mauto (\"Lysiloma divaricatum\"), Palo blanco (\"L. candidum\"), Cajalosucho (\"Bursera microphylla\") and Palo zorrillo (\"Hesperalbizia occidentalis\"). \n\nHerbaceous plants are less prominent and include Caribe (\"Cnidoscolus angustidens\"), Buena mujer (\"Chloracantha spinosa\"), \"Solanum\" spp., and Biznaga (\"Ferocactus\" spp).\n\nThe endemic palm here is \"Brahea brandegeei\", that occurs in washes and along streams.\n\n"}
{"id": "47210226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47210226", "title": "Sindhu Pushkaram", "text": "Sindhu Pushkaram\n\nSindhu Pushkaram is a festival of River Sindhu normally occurs once in 12 years. This Pushkaram is observed for a period of 12 days from the time of entry of Jupiter into \"Kumbha\" rasi (Aquarius).\n\n"}
{"id": "42365452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42365452", "title": "Snow in Louisiana", "text": "Snow in Louisiana\n\nSnow in the state of Louisiana presents a rare and serious problem because of the state's subtropical climate. For snow to push into the southern region of Louisiana, extreme weather conditions for the area must be present, usually a low-pressure system coupled with unusually low temperatures. Average snowfall in Louisiana is approximately per year, a low figure rivaled only by the states of Florida and Hawaii. Due to the infrequency of these cold weather patterns, southern areas affected in this state are often unprepared to deal with slick streets and freezing temperatures.\n\n1895: A large snow storm spanning from Texas to Alabama left New Orleans with approximately of snow, Lake Charles with of snow, and Rayne with of snow. However, these are unconfirmed.\n\n1899: With the Great Blizzard of 1899, snowfall in New Orleans reached with strong winds and temperatures below .\n\n2004: The 2004 Christmas Eve snowstorm swept across southern Texas and Louisiana, leaving unprecedented amounts of snow in areas that had not seen snow in 15 to 120 years.\n\n2008: It snowed in and around semi-tropical New Orleans on Thursday December 11th, 2008.\n\nFrom dawn to mid-morning a thick snowfall of plump, wet flakes buried much of southeast Louisiana, from Amite to Westwego, under a blanket of white.\nSnow in inches:\nLawrence County, MS: 9.0\" Bogue Chitto, MS: 8.0\"** Amite, LA: 8.0\" Washington, LA: 6.0\" Opelousas, LA: 6.0\" Covington, LA: 6.0\" Hammond, LA: 6.0\" Beaumont, TX: 4.0\"\n\n2014: The early 2014 North American cold wave that blew through the eastern portion of the continental United States produced record low temperatures and brought freezing snow and sleet to Louisiana.\n\n2017: Early in the morning on December 8, 2017, a winter storm dripped snowflakes on much of south Louisiana. Throughout the day, more and more snow fell. Snow lasted all day long. Heavy snowfall fell on the ground, giving some places a 6-inch snowfall day. Most schools across Louisiana closed due to the snow.\n\nBecause of the scarcity of freezing temperatures in Louisiana, many citizens of the region are often left unprepared to handle what might be considered a storm of little consequence in more northern states. The region has developed a system of road and school closures with only minimal snowfall, as most drivers in the area are unprepared to deal with slick, frozen roads. In fact, the governor of Louisiana may choose to invoke the Louisiana Homeland Security and Emergency Assistance and Disaster Act, R.S. 29:721, to declare a state of emergency due to extreme cold and snow. In 2014, Gov. Bobby Jindal did just that in advance of the weather and assembled teams to assist in preparation and recovery.\n\nThe state's typically humid subtropical climate rarely encounters precipitation coupled with freezing temperatures. The Gulf of Mexico helps maintain this climate, particularly closer to the coast. The normally extreme summers are rarely countered by cold winters, with snowfall low in intensity and frequency. Average winter temperature normals in southern Louisiana vary from the 40s to the 60s Fahrenheit. Natural disasters such as hurricanes are far more common, and such an ecosystem is ill prepared for snow, particularly the seafood supply on which Louisiana relies for much of its revenue. Little research has been done directly linking effects on Louisiana's ecosystem to snow conditions. However, the jet stream that created the 2014 North American cold wave has been linked to global warming, and resultant cold fronts have been linked to salt water intrusion in Louisiana's Atchafalaya Bay. However, one of Louisiana's most famous animals, the alligator, has proved versatile in adapting to cold weather conditions by burrowing in \"alligator holes\", which they usually use for waiting out a drought. Studies conducted in Finland and Sweden suggest that snow creates more potential problems in urban communities due to increased pollution in runoff. Due to the state's lack of resources and funding, however, it is unclear what levels of pollution due to snow affect the Louisiana area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1482695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1482695", "title": "Tellurite", "text": "Tellurite\n\nTellurite is a rare oxide mineral composed of tellurium dioxide (TeO).\n\nIt occurs as prismatic to acicular transparent yellow to white orthorhombic crystals. It occurs in the oxidation zone of mineral deposits in association with native tellurium, emmonsite and other tellurium minerals. Its name comes from Tellus, which is the Latin name for the planet Earth.\n\nIt was first described in 1842 for an occurrence in Faţa Băii, Zlatna, Alba County, Romania.\n"}
{"id": "24769044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24769044", "title": "The Handbook of Australian Sea-birds", "text": "The Handbook of Australian Sea-birds\n\nThe Handbook of Australian Sea-birds is a book published in 1971 by A.H. & A.W. Reed in Sydney. It was authored by Dominic Serventy, his brother Vincent Serventy, and John Warham. It is in octavo format (252 x 190 mm) and contains 264 pages bound in black buckram with a dustjacket illustrated with a photograph of a red-tailed tropicbird in flight. It contains numerous coloured and black-and-white photographs of seabirds, most of them taken by John Warham, as well as many sketches, maps and diagrams.\n\nThe stated aim of the authors is to enable seabirds found in Australian waters to be correctly identified and to record the known facts of their habits. Seabirds covered include the penguins, albatrosses and other petrels, tropicbirds, frigatebirds, gannets, cormorants, pelicans, skuas, gulls and terns, 104 species in all. With regard to the layout and content of the book the authors say:\n\n”This book consists of two main parts. In the first we attempt a general account of Australia’s sea-bird fauna, its environment in the past and today, its distribution and the categories of birds found there. We also discuss some biological problems affecting those sea-birds, aspects of current research into their habits, and the problem of their conservation. The second part (Section V) of the book summarises what is known to date of the different species of birds in our region. Where there are adequate data each bird is described under the heads: Field Characteristics and General Habits; Status in Australia; Migration; Voice; Display; Breeding; Enemies and Mortality; Breeding Distribution.”\n"}
{"id": "24895376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24895376", "title": "The Mallee-Fowl", "text": "The Mallee-Fowl\n\nThe Mallee-Fowl is a book published by Angus & Robertson in 1962, with the subtitle The Bird that Builds an Incubator. It was authored by Australian ornithologist Harry Frith. It was issued in octavo format (224 x 140 mm), containing 148 pages, bound in dark red cloth with a dust jacket illustrated by a photograph of a malleefowl. The book contains numerous black-and-white photographs by the author, and is dedicated to \"Joe\" (one of the subjects of Frith's research).\n\nThe book was reviewed in the \"Emu\" by Jack Jones (as J.J.), who says:\n\"The Mallee-Fowl\" is an important work in Australian ornithology. It is the first book for public appraisal of a life history obtained by extensive and methodic research in field and laboratory. Its subject – an extraordinary bird species now moving towards rarity through man's indifference – requires such a public book in support of a major and urgent conservation task revealed. The research was done by Frith during 1951 to 1958, at first in private week-end activity, then as a project of the Wildlife Survey Section (now the Division of Wildlife Research, of which Frith is the Chief) of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, with assistance at times by colleagues.\"\n\n\"\"The Mallee-Fowl\" is subtitled \"The Bird that Builds an Incubator\"\". Frith's research was centred on the incubating mound in methodic enquiry of cycle and control; and from that real dominance the enquiry circled out to obtain and collate the remaining substance of life history into relativity, including conservation problems in predation, grazing and clearing for farming. Development of census methods was a necessary corollary. The book bears the research accent by being concerned mainly with life-history detail and gaining of knowledge. It also includes adequate comparison with the other Megapode species, notably the Brush-Turkey and Jungle-Fowl; it speculates briefly on the origin and development of mound incubation in an arid climate; and concludes with a succinct chapter of emphatic appeal for conservation of the Mallee-Fowl.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55011892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55011892", "title": "Waves and Instabilities from a Neutral Dynamo", "text": "Waves and Instabilities from a Neutral Dynamo\n\nWaves and Instabilities from a Neutral Dynamo or WINDY is space experiment mission for the purpose to study a phenomenon that occurs in the ionosphere – a layer of charged particles in the upper atmosphere. \n\nWINDY is a NASA rocket mission that hopes to study disturbances in the upper atmosphere that might interfere with communication and technology systems. The experiment will form night-time white artificial clouds that will be visible by residents of the Republic of the Marshall Islands during two rocket flights. The rockets are scheduled to launch between August 29 and September 9.\n"}
{"id": "13450357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13450357", "title": "Wiring party", "text": "Wiring party\n\nWiring parties, (or wiring sappers, cutters), were used during World War I on the Western Front as an offensive countermeasure against the enemy’s barbed wire obstacles. Though hazardous and stressful duty, work was done at night to repair, improve, and rebuild their own wire defences, while also sabotaging and cutting the enemy's. In battles all across the Western Front, cutting parties were successful in creating breaches in the wire lines, offering their comrades a better chance to cross no man's land.\nBarbed wire was one of the attacker's great problems. There were cutters, but not enough, and men were often killed before they could cut a way.\nThe outbreak of World War I led to a revolution in modern warfare, and the use of barbed wire on the battlefield was one of the many technologies relied upon to hamper the enemy's attack. Used by American cattle ranchers since the 1870s, barbed wire was adapted on the Western Front to serve a more gruesome purpose than containing livestock. Transformed into a weapon of war, it was shaped to create deadly obstacles in the path of assaulting enemy troops. Meant to trap, maim, and make easy targets of the opponent, they ranged from a single strand of wire arranged to trip men in the dark, to a 150-metre-long construction and tall By spring of 1915, barbed wire entanglements were an unavoidable element in trench warfare, and posed a serious threat to all men going 'over the top'. \n\nThe integration of barbed wire as an instrument of war required the formation of tactical teams, or wiring parties. Barbed wire defences needed to be maintained frequently, as shrapnel often cut the wire, or the enemy had sabotaged it during battle or the night before. Workers did not just deal with the actual wire; they also had to clear the entanglements of any bodies or body parts.\nUnder the cover of darkness, often one-third of units stealthily climbed out of the trenches to perform maintenance on their wires, as well as investigating the status of the enemy's. They were charged with the task of repairing damaged wire and reconstructing the line if necessary. In addition, these working parties attempted to cut and destroy the enemy’s wire in the hopes of preventing their troops from being stopped in the middle of no man's land during the next attack. From as early as 9pm and as late as 3am, they were like \"so many animals, working during the night and sleeping by day\". As the war progressed, it seemed to become 'regular routine', but often one of the most deadly and difficult duties to perform.\n\nDue to the extreme dangers inherent with no man's land, specialized tools and methods were implemented to make the process quieter and more effective. Pickets, or metal posts, were originally used to hold up the wire and were hammered in by a muffled mallet. However, this still produced noise, rendering the sappers targets. Therefore, screw pickets or 'cork-screws' were produced. These looped steel posts had a drill-like end, allowing it to be twisted into the ground noiselessly and the wire then wrapped around it.\n\nThe wiring parties began by creeping into no man's land carrying all their equipment, including the screw-pickets and rolls of sharp barbed wire. Often this was a painful task in itself:\nYou mention in your letter about what I would like or need most ... However, I'm not complaining or asking for anything so don't worry about me. A good stout pair of gloves for handling barbed wire or fur gloves (lined) would be acceptable. (Lt. Cecil Louis' letter to his wife, 1916)\nErecting wire was time consuming and meticulous; sappers had to first repair wire by hand, then construct new defences if needed. Destroying wire, on the other hand, could by done either by going through, over, or under the wire, and could be done by hand or by using wire-cutting shells and mortars.\nThe object of the wiring parties was to slow down the enemy’s attack, while speeding up their own. For this reason, workers attempted to make it impossible for the enemy to get to their trench, while sabotaging the enemy’s wire for their own benefit. In addition, though the distance between trenches varied between 7 and 500 yards, workers tried to erect barbed wire defences as far away from their trench as possible, to prevent the enemy from getting too close to the trench, or possibly lobbing in grenades.\n\nWorking with barbed wire was a nasty job under any circumstances, but when you were handling it in the dark and within a hundred yards of rifles and machine guns that would shoot at the least sound, you were doing one of the most nerve-wracking bits of work that could possibly be imagined...the slightest move might mean death for half your party.\nWiring parties faced the constant danger of being noticed by enemy searchlights or troops. Enemy sentries were trained to listen and look for these nighttime raiders, and any suspicious sounds or movements could give away the men's position and consequently bring a concentration of heavy fire that way. Unprotected and often standing, wiring parties were subject to enemy flares which would expose them immediately, causing them to have to lie flat, even on the very wire they were carrying.\n\nTo conceal themselves as much as possible, party members left extra supplies in the trench, and only ventured out at night. The teams scrambled to work as quickly and silently as possible, as such stressful night work and physical labour promoted fatigue and little time to sleep. Also, returning to one's trench in the middle of the night proved tricky, as workers often got lost on their way back. Finally, wiring parties were always wary of the enemy's parties, as they performed the same task each night.\n\nA wiring party is described in detail in the World War I novel All Quiet on the Western Front by E.M. Remarque, as well as the 1930 film based on it. Paul Baumer, the main character, has one of his first experiences of front line duty in a nighttime wiring party. Part way through the work, they are shelled and one of his comrades is killed, the first of many of his friends to die in combat.\n\n"}
