{"id": "11894682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11894682", "title": "1794 Treason Trials", "text": "1794 Treason Trials\n\nThe 1794 Treason Trials, arranged by the administration of William Pitt, were intended to cripple the British radical movement of the 1790s. Over thirty radicals were initially arrested; three were tried for high treason: Thomas Hardy, John Horne Tooke and John Thelwall. In a repudiation of the government's policies, they were acquitted by three separate juries in November 1794 to great public rejoicing. The treason trials were an extension of the sedition trials of 1792 and 1793 against parliamentary reformers in both England and Scotland.\n\nThe historical backdrop to the Treason Trials is complex: it involves not only the British parliamentary reform efforts of the 1770s and 1780s but also the French Revolution. In the 1770s and 1780s, there was an effort among liberal-minded Members of Parliament to reform the British electoral system. A disproportionately small number of electors voted for MPs and many seats were simply bought. Christopher Wyvill and William Pitt the Younger argued for additional seats to be added to the House of Commons and the Duke of Richmond and John Cartwright advocated a more radical reform: \"the payment of MPs, an end to corruption and patronage in parliamentary elections, annual parliaments (partly to enable the speedy removal of corrupt MPs) and, preeminently and most controversially, universal manhood suffrage\". Both efforts failed and the reform movement appeared moribund in the mid-1780s.\n\nOnce the revolution in France began to demonstrate the power of popular agitation, the British reform movement was reinvigorated. Much of the vigorous political debate in the 1790s in Britain was sparked by the publication of Edmund Burke's \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790). Surprising his friends and enemies alike, Burke, who had supported the American Revolution, criticized the French Revolution and the British radicals who had welcomed its early stages. While the radicals saw the revolution as analogous to Britain's own Glorious Revolution in 1688, which had restricted the powers of the monarchy, Burke argued that the appropriate historical analogy was the English Civil War (1642–1651) in which Charles I had been executed in 1649. He viewed the French Revolution as the violent overthrow of a legitimate government. In \"Reflections\" he argues that citizens do not have the right to revolt against their government, because civilizations, including governments, are the result of social and political consensus. If a culture's traditions were challenged, the result would be endless anarchy. There was an immediate response from the British supporters of the French revolution, most notably Mary Wollstonecraft in her \"Vindication of the Rights of Men\" and Thomas Paine in his \"Rights of Man\". In this lively and sometimes vicious pamphlet war, now referred to as the \"Revolution Controversy\", British political commentators addressed topics ranging from representative government to human rights to the separation of church and state.\n\n1792 was the \"\"annus mirabilis\" of eighteenth-century radicalism\": its most important texts, such as \"Rights of Man\", were published and the influence of the radical associations was at its height. In fact, it was as a result of the publication of the \"Rights of Man\" that such associations began to proliferate. The most significant groups, made up of artisans, merchants and others from the middling and lower sorts, were the Sheffield Society for Constitutional Information, the London Corresponding Society (LCS) and the Society for Constitutional Information (SCI). But it was not until these groups formed an alliance with the more genteel Society of the Friends of the People that the government became concerned. When this sympathy became known, the government issued a royal proclamation against seditious writings on 21 May 1792. In a dramatic increase compared to the rest of the century, there were over 100 prosecutions for sedition in the 1790s alone. The British government, fearing an uprising similar to the French Revolution, took even more drastic steps to quash the radicals. They made an increasing number of political arrests and infiltrated the radical groups; they threatened to \"revoke the licences of publicans who continued to host politicized debating societies and to carry reformist literature\"; they seized the mail of \"suspected dissidents\"; and they supported groups that disrupted radical events and attacked radicals in the press. Additionally, the British Government initiated the Aliens Act of 1793 in order to regulate the entrance of immigrants into Great Britain. Essentially, the Aliens Act enforced that aliens be recorded upon arrival and register with the local justice of the peace. Specifically, immigrants were required to give their names, ranks, occupations, and addresses. Overall, the Aliens Act reduced the number of immigrants into Great Britain out of fear that one of them may be an unwanted spy. Radicals saw this period as \"the institution of a system of terror, almost as hideous in its features, almost as gigantic in its stature, and infinitely more pernicious in its tendency, than France ever knew\".\n\nThe administration did not immediately begin to prosecute all of its detractors after the proclamation against seditious writings was issued. Although Paine's publisher, J. S. Jordan, was indicted for sedition for publishing the \"Rights of Man\" in May 1792, Paine himself was not charged until the royal proclamation was promulgated. Even then, the government did not actively pursue him, apart from spying on him and continuing its propaganda campaign against \"Mad Tom\". Paine's trial was delayed until December and he fled to France in the intervening months, apparently with the government's blessing, which was more interested in getting rid of such a troublesome citizen than trying him in person. Moreover, afraid that Paine might use his trial as a political platform, the government may not have wanted to prosecute Paine personally.\n\nWhen the trial finally took place on 18 December 1792, its outcome was a foregone conclusion. The government, under Pitt's direction, had been lambasting Paine in the papers for months and the trial judge had negotiated the prosecution's arguments with them ahead of time. The radical Thomas Erskine defended Paine by arguing that his pamphlet was part of an honorable English tradition of political philosophy that included the writings of John Milton, John Locke and David Hume; he also pointed out that Paine was merely responding to the philosophical work of an MP, Burke. The Attorney-General argued that the pamphlet was clearly aimed at readers \"whose minds cannot be supposed to be conversant with subjects of this sort\" and cited its cheap price as evidence of its lack of serious intent. The prosecution did not even have to rebut Erskine's arguments; the jury informed the judge they had already decided Paine was guilty.\n\nJohn Frost was a member of the SCI, a former associate of Pitt, an attorney and a friend of Paine's. On 6 November 1792 he got involved in a dispute with a friend over the French revolution in a tavern and was heard to say \"Equality, and No King\". This dispute was reported by publicans to government informers. When Frost went to Paris later that month, the government declared him an outlaw and encouraged him to stay in France. Frost, challenging the government to act, returned and surrendered himself to the authorities. Suggestions began to float around, from government and radical sources alike, that the government was embarrassed to prosecute Frost because of his former friendship with Pitt. But on 27 May, he was brought to trial for sedition. Erskine defended Frost, arguing that there was no seditious intent to his statement, his client was drunk, he was in a heated argument, and he was in a private space (the tavern). The Attorney-General contended that Frost \"was a man whose seditious intent was carried with him wherever he went\". The jury convicted him.\n\nDaniel Isaac Eaton, the publisher of the popular periodical \"Politics for the People\", was arrested on 7 December 1793 for publishing a statement by John Thelwall, a radical lecturer and debater. Thelwall had made a speech that included an anecdote about a tyrannical gamecock named \"King Chanticleer\" who was beheaded for its despotism and Eaton reprinted it. Eaton was imprisoned for three months before his trial in an effort to bankrupt him and his family. In February 1794, he was finally brought to trial and defended by John Gurney. Gurney argued that the comment was an indictment of tyranny in general or of Louis XVI, the king of France, and announced his dismay that anyone could think that the author meant George III. \"Gurney went so far as to cheekily suggest that it was the Attorney-General who was guilty of seditious libel; by supplying those innuendos he, not Eaton or Thelwall, had represented George III as a tyrant.\" Everyone laughed uproariously and Eaton was acquitted; the membership of the radical societies skyrocketed.\n\nThe radical societies were briefly enjoying an upsurge in membership and influence. In the summer of 1793 several of them decided to convene in Edinburgh to decide on how to summon \"a great Body of the People\" to convince Parliament to reform, since it did not seem willing to reform itself. The government viewed this assembly as an attempt to set up an anti-parliament. In Scotland, three leaders of the convention were tried for sedition and sentenced to fourteen years of service in Botany Bay. Such harsh sentences shocked the nation and while initially the societies believed that an insurrection might be necessary to resist such an overbearing government, their rhetoric never materialized into an actual armed rebellion. Plans were made by some of the societies to meet again if the government became more hostile (e.g. if they suspended \"habeas corpus\"). In 1794, a plan was circulated to convene again, but it never got off the ground. The government, frightened however, arrested six members of the SCI and 13 members of the LCS on suspicion of \"treasonable practices\" in conspiring to assume \"a pretended general convention of the people, in contempt and defiance of the authority of parliament, and on principles subversive of the existing laws and constitution, and directly tending to the introduction of that system of anarchy and confusion which has fatally prevailed in France\". Over thirty men were arrested in all. Of the people arrested were Thomas Hardy, secretary of the LCS; the linguist John Horne Tooke; the novelist and dramatist Thomas Holcroft (arrested in October); the Unitarian minister Jeremiah Joyce; writer and lecturer John Thelwall; bookseller and pamphleteer Thomas Spence; and silversmith and, later, historian John Baxter.\n\nAfter the arrests, the government formed two secret committees to study the papers they had seized from the radicals' houses. After the first committee report, the government introduced a bill in the House of Commons to suspend habeas corpus; thus, those arrested on suspicion of treason could be held without bail or charge until February 1795. In June 1794 the committee issued a second report, asserting that the radical societies had been planning at least to \"over-awe\" the sovereign and Parliament by the show of \"a great Body of the People\" if not to overthrow the government and install a French-style republic. They claimed that the societies had attempted to assemble a large armory for this purpose, but no evidence could be found for it, in the end. They were eventually charged with an assortment of crimes, but seditious libel and treason were the most severe. The government propagated the notion that the radicals had committed a new kind of treason, what they called \"modern\" or \"French\" treason. While previous defendants had tried to replace one king with another from another dynasty, these democrats wanted to overthrow the entire monarchical system and remove the king entirely. \"Modern French treason, it seemed, was different from, was worse than, old-fashioned English treason.\" Unfortunately for the prosecution, the treason statute, that of the Act of Edward III from 1351, did not apply very well to this new kind of treason. The Attorney-General Sir John Scott, who would prosecute Hardy and Horne Tooke, \"decided to base the indictment on the charge that the societies had been engaged in a conspiracy to levy war against the king, that they intended to subvert the constitution, to depose the King, and put him to death; and for that purpose, and \"with Force and Arms\", they conspired to excite insurrection and rebellion\" (emphasis in original).\n\nInitially the men were confined to the Tower of London, but they were eventually moved to Newgate prison. Those charged with treason faced the brutal punishment of hanging, drawing and quartering if convicted: each would have been \"hanged by the neck, cut down while still alive, disembowelled (and his entrails burned before his face) and then beheaded and quartered\". The entire radical movement was also on trial; there were supposedly 800 warrants that were ready to be acted upon when the government won its case.\n\nHardy's trial was first; his wife had died while he was in prison, generating support for him among the populace. Thomas Erskine, defending again, argued that the radicals had proposed nothing more than the Duke of Richmond (now an anti-reformer) had in the 1780s and \"their plan for a convention of delegates was borrowed from a similar plan advanced by Pitt himself\". The government could provide no real evidence of an armed insurrection. The Attorney-General's opening statement lasted nine hours, leading the former Lord Chancellor Lord Thurlow to comment that \"there was no treason\". Treason must be \"clear and obvious\"; the great legal theorist Edward Coke had argued that treason was to be determined \"not upon conjecturall presumptions, or inferences, or strains of wit, but upon good and sufficient proof\". Part of Erskine's effective defense was to dismiss the prosecution's case, as it was based on \"strains of wit\" or \"imagination\" (a play on words of the statute itself). He claimed, as he had in the earlier trials, that it was the prosecution that was \"imagining the king's death\" rather than the defense. His cross-examination of the prosecution's spies also helped demolish their case; he \"cross-examined these witnesses in a tone of contemptuous disbelief and managed to discredit much of their evidence\". After a nine-day trial, which was exceptionally long for the time, he was acquitted. The foreman of the jury fainted after delivering his verdict of not guilty, and the crowd enthusiastically carried Hardy through the streets of London.\n\nIn his speeches, Erskine emphasized that the radical organizations, primarily the London Corresponding Society and the Society for Constitutional Information, were dedicated to a revolution of ideas, not a violent revolution—they embodied the new ideals of the Enlightenment. Erskine was helped in his defense by pamphlets such as William Godwin's \"Cursory Strictures on the Charge Delivered by Lord Chief Justice Eyre to the Grand Jury, 2 October 1794\".\nJohn Horne Tooke's trial followed Hardy's, in which Pitt was forced to testify and admit that he had attended radical meetings himself. Throughout the trial Horne Tooke \"combined the affectation of boredom with irreverent wit\". One observer noted that when asked by the court if he would be tried \"by God and his Country\", he \"eyed the court for some seconds with an air of significancy few men are so well able to assume, and shaking his head, emphatically answered 'I \"would\" be tried by God and my country, \"but\"—! After a long trial, he too was acquitted.\n\nAll of the other members of the SCI were released after these two trials, as it became obvious to the government that they would not gain any convictions.\n\nJohn Thelwall was tried last; the government felt forced to try him because the loyalist press had argued that his case was particularly strong. While awaiting trial, he wrote and published poetry indicting the entire process. During Thelwall's trial, various members of the London Corresponding Society testified that Thelwall and the others had no concrete plans to overthrow the government, and that details of how reform was to be achieved were an \"afterthought\". This undermined the prosecution's claims that the society was responsible for fomenting rebellion. Thelwall was also acquitted, after which the rest of the cases were dismissed.\n\nAll of these trials, both those from 1792 and those from 1794, were published as part of an 18th-century genre called \"trial literature\". Often, multiple versions of famous trials would be published and since the shorthand takers were not always precise, the accounts disagree. Moreover, the accounts were sometimes altered deliberately by one side or another. Importantly, those in the courtroom knew that their words would be published. In Scotland, one of the accused ringleaders of the plot said: \"What I say this day will not be confined within these walls, but will spread far and wide.\" Indeed, the government may have resisted trying Paine until he had left the country because of the notorious power of his pen.\n\nAlthough all of the defendants of the Treason Trials had been acquitted, the administration and the loyalists assumed they were guilty. Secretary at War William Windham referred to the radicals as \"acquitted felon[s]\" and William Pitt and the Attorney-General called them \"morally guilty\". There was widespread agreement that they got off because the treason statute was outdated. When, in October 1795, crowds threw refuse at the king and insulted him, demanding a cessation of the war with France and lower bread prices, the Parliament immediately passed the \"gagging acts\" (the Seditious Meetings Act and the Treasonable Practices Act, also known as the \"Two Acts\"). Under these new laws, it was almost impossible to have a public meeting and speech at such meetings was severely curtailed. As a result of these legislative acts, Societies that were not directly involved with the Treason Trials, like the Society of the Friends of the People, disbanded. British \"radicalism encountered a severe set-back\" during these years, and it was not until a generation later that any real reform could be enacted. The trials, although they were not government victories, served the purpose for which they were intended—all of these men, except Thelwall, withdrew from active radical politics as did many others fearful of governmental retribution. Few took their place.\n\n"}
{"id": "35742703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35742703", "title": "3D bioprinting", "text": "3D bioprinting\n\nThree dimensional (3D) bioprinting is the utilization of 3D printing and 3D printing–like techniques to combine cells, growth factors, and biomaterials to fabricate biomedical parts that maximally imitate natural tissue characteristics. Generally, 3D bioprinting utilizes the layer-by-layer method to deposit materials known as bioinks to create tissue-like structures that are later used in medical and tissue engineering fields. Bioprinting covers a broad range of biomaterials.\n\nCurrently, bioprinting can be used to print tissues and organs to help research drugs and pills. However, emerging innovations span from bioprinting of cells or extracellular matrix deposited into a 3D gel layer by layer to produce the desired tissue or organ. In addition, 3D bioprinting has begun to incorporate the printing of scaffolds. These scaffolds can be used to regenerate joints and ligaments.\n\n3D bioprinting generally follows three steps, pre-bioprinting, bioprinting, and post-bioprinting.\n\nPre-bioprinting is the process of creating a model that the printer will later create and choosing the materials that will be used. One of the first steps is to obtain a biopsy of the organ. Common technologies used for bioprinting are computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). To print with a layer-by-layer approach, tomographic reconstruction is done on the images. The now-2D images are then sent to the printer to be made. Once the image is created, certain cells are isolated and multiplied. These cells are then mixed with a special liquefied material that provides oxygen and other nutrients to keep them alive. In some processes, the cells are encapsulated in cellular spheroids 500μm in diameter. This aggregation of cells does not require a scaffold, and are required for placing in the tubular-like tissue fusion for processes such as extrusion.\n\nIn the second step, the liquid mixture of cells, matrix, and nutrients known as bioinks are placed in a printer cartridge and deposited using the patients' medical scans. When a bioprinted pre-tissue is transferred to an incubator, this cell-based pre-tissue matures into a tissue.\n\n3D bioprinting for fabricating biological constructs typically involves dispensing cells onto a biocompatible scaffold using a successive layer-by-layer approach to generate tissue-like three-dimensional structures. Artificial organs such as livers and kidneys made by 3D bioprinting have been shown to lack crucial elements that affect the body such as working blood vessels, tubules for collecting urine, and the growth of billions of cells required for these organs. Without these components the body has no way to get the essential nutrients and oxygen deep within their interiors. Given that every tissue in the body is naturally composed of different cell types, many technologies for printing these cells vary in their ability to ensure stability and viability of the cells during the manufacturing process. Some of the methods that are used for 3D bioprinting of cells are photolithography, magnetic bioprinting, stereolithography, and direct cell extrusion.\n\nThe post-bioprinting process is necessary to create a stable structure from the biological material. If this process is not well-maintained, the mechanical integrity and function of the 3D printed object is at risk. To maintain the object, both mechanical and chemical stimulations are needed. These stimulations send signals to the cells to control the remodeling and growth of tissues. In addition, in recent development, bioreactor technologies have allowed the rapid maturation of tissues, vascularization of tissues and the ability to survive transplants.\n\nBioreactors work in either providing convective nutrient transport, creating microgravity environments, changing the pressure causing solution to flow through the cells, or add compression for dynamic or static loading. Each type of bioreactor is ideal for different types of tissue, for example compression bioreactors are ideal for cartilage tissue.\n\nResearchers in the field have developed approaches to produce living organs that are constructed with the appropriate biological and mechanical properties. 3D bioprinting is based on three main approaches: Biomimicry, autonomous self-assembly and mini-tissue building blocks.\n\nThe first approach of bioprinting is called biomimicry. The main goal of this approach is to create fabricated structures that are identical to the natural structure that are found in the tissues and organs in the human body. Biomimicry requires duplication of the shape, framework, and the microenvironment of the organs and tissues. The application of biomimicry in bioprinting involves creating both identical cellular and extracellular parts of organs. For this approach to be successful, the tissues must be replicated on a micro scale. Therefore, it is necessary to understand the microenvironment, the nature of the biological forces in this microenvironment, the precise organization of functional and supporting cell types, solubility factors, and the composition of extracellular matrix.\n\nThe second approach of bioprinting is autonomous self-assembly. This approach relies on the physical process of embryonic organ development as a model to replicate the tissues of interest. When cells are in their early development, they create their own extracellular matrix building block, the proper cell signaling, and independent arrangement and patterning to provide the required biological functions and micro-architecture. Autonomous self-assembly demands specific information about the developmental techniques of the tissues and organs of the embryo. There is a \"scaffold-free\" model that uses self-assembling spheroids that subjects to fusion and cell arrangement to resemble evolving tissues. Autonomous self-assembly depends on the cell as the fundamental driver of histogenesis, guiding the building blocks, structural and functional properties of these tissues. It demands a deeper understanding of how embryonic tissues mechanisms develop as well as the microenvironment surrounded to create the bioprinted tissues.\n\nThe third approach of bioprinting is a combination of both the biomimicry and self-assembly approaches, which is called mini tissues. Organs and tissues are built from very small functional components. Mini-tissue approach takes these small pieces and manufacture and arrange them into larger framework.\n\nAkin to ordinary ink printers, bioprinters have three major components to them. These are the hardware used, the type of bio-ink, and the material it is printed on (biomaterials).\n\"Bio-ink is a material made from living cells that behaves much like a liquid, allowing people to \"print\" it in order to create a desired shape. To make bio-ink, scientists create a slurry of cells that can be loaded into a cartridge and inserted into a specially designed printer, along with another cartridge containing a gel known as bio-paper.\"\n\nIn bioprinting, there are three major types of printers that have been used. These are inkjet, laser-assisted, and extrusion printers. Inkjet printers are mainly used in bioprinting for fast and large-scale products. One type of inkjet printer, called drop-on-demand inkjet printer, prints materials in exact amounts, minimizing cost and waste. Printers that utilize lasers provide high-resolution printing; however, these printers are often expensive. Extrusion printers print cells layer-by-layer, just like 3D printing to create 3D constructs. In addition to just cells, extrusion printers may also use hydrogels infused with cells.\n\n3D bioprinting contributes to significant advances in the medical field of tissue engineering by allowing for research to be done on innovative materials called biomaterials. Biomaterials are the materials adapted and used for printing three-dimensional objects. Some of the most notable bioengineered substances are usually stronger than the average bodily materials, including soft tissue and bone. These constituents can act as future substitutes, even improvements, for the original body materials. Alginate, for example, is an anionic polymer with many biomedical implications including feasibility, strong biocompatibility, low toxicity, and stronger structural ability in comparison to some of the body's structural material. Synthetic hydrogels are also commonplace, including PV-based gels. The combination of acid with a UV-initiated PV-based cross-linker has been evaluated by the Wake Forest Institute of Medicine and determined to be a suitable biomaterial. Engineers are also exploring other options such as printing micro-channels that can maximize the diffusion of nutrients and oxygen from neighboring tissues In addition, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency aims to print mini organs such as hearts, livers, and lungs as the potential to test new drugs more accurately and perhaps eliminate the need for testing in animals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44741678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44741678", "title": "AllerWeltHaus Hagen", "text": "AllerWeltHaus Hagen\n\nThe AllerWeltHaus Hagen (\"All the world house Hagen\"); commonly shortened to AWH; is a Cultural center in the Dr. Ferdinand David Park in Hagen. It is located next to the Potthofstraße in Hagens downtown area, near the central Synagogue.\n\nIt houses a Fair Trade Shop and a Coffeehouse called Café Bistro Mundial, offering a changing vegetarian-vegan menu of the day from Monday to Friday. A Cultural & Educational Center can also be found in the AllerWeltHaus: Its regular cultural program, cultural projects and workshops with artists from all over the world contribute to build bridges and to arouse curiosity about cultural vitality, with lectures, exhibitions and seminars providing in-depth information on current development issues.\n\nNumerous collaborations with schools and News media are intended to contribute to broad social consensus on the issues of \"sustainable development\".\n\nThe AllerWeltHaus and its institutions are run by the AllerWeltHaus Hagen Association, which purpose according to its mission statement is \"to promote an international attitude, international understanding and care for those being persecuted for political, racial or religious reasons, especially in the area of youth welfare.The association is committed to a peaceful, just and ecologically sound development.It opposes all inhumane and racist endeavors.\n\nIt is realizing its objectives through: The implementation of international education and cultural events with a focus on the Southern Hemisphere; Maintaining an intercultural meeting place, and support for projects that contribute social and charitable or comparable organizations, or that serve the care for the persecuted.\n\nThe free cultural center AllerWeltHaus Hagen was formed in 1988 in continuation of the Third World Shop Hagen existing since 1976.\n\nDifferent local initiatives meet in the AWH, among them:Friedensinitiative Hagen, Terre des hommes Hagen, German-French Society, Fotofreunde Hagen, Hagen Vegan Association.\n\nThere are regular exhibitions of Art and Photography in the Center.\n\nPresidents of the Executive Board of the AllerWeltHaus Hagen e.V.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33907012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33907012", "title": "American Horror Story: Murder House", "text": "American Horror Story: Murder House\n\nAmerican Horror Story: Murder House (originally titled as American Horror Story) is the first season of the FX television series \"American Horror Story\". It aired between October 5, and December 21, 2011. The season was produced by 20th Century Fox Television, and the executive producers were Dante Di Loreto and series creators Brad Falchuk and Ryan Murphy.\n\nIt centers on the Harmon family: , and their daughter , who move from Boston to Los Angeles after Vivien has a miscarriage and Ben has an affair. They move into a restored mansion, unaware that the house is haunted by the ghosts of its former residents and their victims.\n\nThe first season of \"American Horror Story\" received generally positive reviews from critics. The series drew consistently high ratings for the FX network, ending its first season as the biggest new cable series of the year. The season was nominated for various industry awards, including the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Drama, and received a total of seventeen Emmy Award nominations. In addition, Lange won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress, the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series, and the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie.\n\nThe first season follows the Harmon family: Ben (Dylan McDermott), Vivien (Connie Britton) and Violet (Taissa Farmiga), who move from Boston to Los Angeles to start a new life in a Victorian mansion, after Vivien has a miscarriage and Ben has an affair with Hayden McClaine (Kate Mara), one of his students. On arrival, they learn from Marcy (Christine Estabrook), the real estate agent, that the previous owners of their new mansion, a couple named Chad and Patrick (Zachary Quinto and Teddy Sears), died in an apparent murder/suicide. Their neighbor, Constance Langdon, (Jessica Lange) and her daughter Addie (Jamie Brewer) become frequent, and mostly unwelcome, guests. Addie seems to have a connection with the house's mysterious past. Larry Harvey (Denis O'Hare), a former resident of the house who has suffered from terrible burns, also begins inserting himself into the Harmons' lives, giving Ben a cryptic warning about the house. The house also \"comes with\" Moira O'Hara (Frances Conroy and Alexandra Breckenridge), a housekeeper who appears young and seductive to men, but old and matronly to women.\n\n\n\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nCreators Murphy and Falchuk began working on \"American Horror Story\" before their Fox series \"Glee\" began production. Murphy wanted to do the opposite of what he had done previously and thus began his work on the series. He stated, \"I went from \"Nip/Tuck\" to \"Glee\", so it made sense that I wanted to do something challenging and dark. And I always had loved, as Brad had, the horror genre. So it just was a natural for me.\" Falchuk was intrigued by the idea of putting a different angle on the horror genre, stating that their main goal in creating the series was to scare viewers. \"You want people to be a little bit off balance afterwards,\" he said.\n\nThe dark tone of the series is modeled after the ABC soap opera \"Dark Shadows\", which Murphy's grandmother forced him to watch when he was younger to toughen him up. He also cited \"Rosemary's Baby\", \"Don't Look Now\", \"The Amityville Horror\", and Stanley Kubrick's version of \"The Shining\" as influences for the series. \n\nFrom the beginning, Murphy and Falchuk planned that each season of the series would tell a different story. After the first-season finale aired, Murphy spoke of his plans to change the cast and location for the second season, while retaining some actors from the first, \"The people that are coming back will be playing completely different characters, creatures, monsters, etc. [The Harmons'] stories are done.\"\n\nIn February 2011, FX officially announced that it had ordered a pilot for a possible series from Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk, with both Murphy and Falchuk writing and Murphy directing. Dante Di Loreto was announced as executive producer. Production on the series began in April 2011. In July 2011, FX officially announced the project had been given a series order consisting of 13 episodes. In August 2011, it was announced that Tim Minear, Jennifer Salt, James Wong and Jessica Sharzer had joined the series as writers.\n\nOn October 30, 2016, Murphy announced that a future crossover season of the series would continue the \"Murder House\" and \"Coven\" stories, merging their characters and themes. He did not state which season it would be, but that he had already reached out to actors from both seasons to reprise their respective roles. Murphy later confirmed one of the \"Murder House\" characters will be moved in the season finale of \"Coven\". However, on January 5, 2018, it was initially announced that the crossover season will be taking place in the ninth season, but on June 14, 2018, the crossover was moved from Season 9 to the eighth season, \"\" instead.\n\nCasting announcements began in March 2011, with Connie Britton first to be cast, portraying female lead Vivien Harmon. Britton stated that she took a risk in taking the role of Vivien. When Murphy presented the role to her, he said, \"This is something we've never seen you do before. It will be turning what you've just been doing on its ear.\" She was intrigued by what he had presented her and ultimately decided to take the part. In an interview with \"Entertainment Weekly\", series co-creator Ryan Murphy stated that he had told Connie Britton, early on, that her character Vivien would die in the first season. \"We've really had the whole season mapped out from the beginning,\" he said. \"In the meetings with the core actors, the three leads being Connie, Dylan [McDermott] and Jessica [Lange], as we tried to snare them we were able to say this is where you start, this is the middle, and this is where you end up. So, yes, I was able to tell Connie really the whole run of the series.\"\n\nDenis O'Hare joined the cast in late March 2011 as Larry Harvey. Jessica Lange joined the cast in April 2011 as Constance, marking her first regular role on television. Lange was attracted to the role because it didn't require a 22-episode commitment like a series on a broadcast network. \"That was huge for me!\" she said. \"I wasn't about to commit to, you know, six months. It was cable, rather than network... I've been offered network [shows] before, and determined not to do it, just because I can't make that kind of time commitment.\"\n\nDylan McDermott was cast as the lead Ben Harmon in late April 2011. His character was initially described as \"a handsome and masculine but sensitive therapist who loves his family but has hurt his wife.\" McDermott stated that he wanted to do the role to break away from his previous role as Bobby Donnell in the ABC series \"The Practice\". \"This was exactly why I wanted to do this show – to change it up and do a different kind of character. People think of me as the guy from \"The Practice\"... I wanted to turn that [notion] on its head and hopefully I'm doing that [with this show]\", he said.\n\nIn May 2011, Taissa Farmiga and Evan Peters were the last lead actors to be cast, portraying Violet Harmon and Tate Langdon, respectively. Farmiga said that she loved Violet \"immediately\" and that \"she had spunk to her, she had attitude.\" Murphy has described Tate as the \"true monster\" of the series, adding, \"To Evan's great credit and the credit of the writers, I think Evan's done an amazingly difficult job making a monster sympathetic.\"\n\nThe pilot episode was shot on location in a house in Country Club Park, Los Angeles, California, which serves as the haunted house and crime scene in the series. Designed and built in 1902 by Alfred Rosenheim, the president of the American Institute of Architects' Los Angeles chapter, the Tudor or Collegiate Gothic-style single family home was previously used as a convent. An adjoining chapel was removed from exterior shots using CGI.\n\nThe series is filmed on sets that are an exact replica of the house. Details such as Louis Comfort Tiffany stained glass windows, and hammered bronze light fixtures, were re-created to preserve the look of the house. The house became available for rent on Airbnb for six months, beginning February 2016, before being unlisted.\n\nDue to a \"very aggressive\" production schedule and the series' pilot shoot having to wait for co-creators Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk's other show, \"Glee\", to wrap its second season production, it was announced that the show's first-season finale, the thirteenth episode, would be thirty minutes shorter than planned. Finally, the thirteenth episode was dropped and they made the twelfth episode 10 minutes longer (52 minutes). The finale aired on December 21, 2011.\n\nThe opening title sequence was created by Kyle Cooper and his company Prologue. He also created the title sequence for the AMC series \"The Walking Dead\" and the 1995 film \"Se7en\". The theme music was composed by sound designer Cesar Davila-Irizarry and musician Charlie Clouser. The sequence is set in the Harmons' basement and includes images of postmortem young children, unborn (or aborted) babies in jars, skulls, a Christening dress, a nurse's uniform, and a figure holding a pair of bloody hedge clippers. Murphy described the sequence as a mini-mystery and stated, \"By the time you see the ninth episode of this season, every image in that title sequence will be explained\".\n\n\"American Horror Story\" received generally positive reviews from critics. The first episode scored 62 out of 100 on Metacritic based on 30 reviews. The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 73% approval rating with an average rating of 6.6/10 based on 39 reviews. The website's consensus reads, \"Convoluted yet effective, \"American Horror Story\" is strange, gory, and twisted enough to keep viewers hooked.\" Ken Tucker from \"Entertainment Weekly\" awarded the pilot episode a B+, stating, \"\"AHS\" is pretty much all scare, all the time: a whole lotta screams, sex, jolts, mashed faces, psychotic behavior, and dead babies.\" Chuck Barney of the \"San Jose Mercury News\" said, \"Most TV shows, after all, quickly fade from memory. This one will haunt your dreams.\" Hank Stuever from \"The Washington Post\" said in his review, \"Overdoing things is one of Murphy's trademark flaws, but this show has a captivating style and giddy gross-outs.\" \"The New York Times\" Mike Hale called the show \"a more classically minded chiller,\" taking into mind the success of HBO's \"True Blood\" and AMC's \"The Walking Dead\". However, not all reviews were favorable. Alan Sepinwall of HitFix gave the series a D−, saying, \"It is so far over the top that the top is a microscopic speck in its rearview mirror.\"\n\nIn its first season, \"American Horror Story\" was nominated for 65 awards, and won 19. \n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> The FX network submitted the series to the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences in the miniseries, rather than the drama series, category for its 64th Primetime Emmy Awards.\n\nThe pilot episode gained a 1.6 ratings share among adults aged 18–49 and garnered 3.2 million viewers, and totalled 5.2 million between two airings. These were the best numbers FX had ever received for a series premiere. Taken together with equally strong numbers for the station's returning original series – \"Sons of Anarchy\", \"It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia\" and \"The League\" – the episode helped make October the most-watched month on FX ever. The episode was seen by 3.2 million viewers total in 59 countries.\n\nRatings increased as the season progressed, with the fourth episode receiving a 1.7 ratings share among adults 18–49, a tenth of a point higher than the pilot episode. The seventh episode had a viewership of 3.06 million, receiving a 1.8 ratings share in the 18–49 demographic; a series high. The season finale was watched by 3.22 million viewers and received a 1.7 ratings share in the 18–49 demographic. The first season tied with the TNT series \"Falling Skies\" as the biggest new cable series of the year among adults 18–49.\n\n\"American Horror Story\" November 2011 international premiere across Europe and Latin America, on Fox International Channels, drew rankings of 1st or 2nd among all Pay-TV in most metered markets for its time slot. In the UK, it premiered on non-terrestrial channel FX, with 128,200 viewers. The second episode saw an increase of 27%, receiving an overall viewership of 158,700.\n"}
{"id": "43365962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43365962", "title": "American Tap Dance Foundation", "text": "American Tap Dance Foundation\n\nThe American Tap Dance Foundation is a nonprofit organization whose primary goal is the presentation and teaching of tap dance. Its original stated purpose was to provide an \"international home for tap dance, perpetuate tap as a contemporary art form, preserve it through performance and an archival library, provide educational programming, and establish a formal school for tap dance.\"\n\nOriginally called the American Tap Dance Orchestra (ATDO), the American Tap Dance Foundation was founded in 1986 by tap dancers Brenda Bufalino, Tony Waag, and Charles \"Honi\" Coles. Bufalino began working with Coles in 1973 when Bufalino produced the documentary, \"Great Feats of Feet: Portraits Of the Jazz Tap Dancer\" featuring Coles and \"The Copasetics\".\n\nATDO's first major engagement was on July 4, 1986, at the Statue of Liberty Festival in Battery Park in lower New York City. For the next 15 years, American Tap Dance Orchestra toured the U.S. and Europe. In 1989, ATDO appeared on PBS \"Great Performances Tap Dance In America with Gregory Hines\".\n\nOn November 10, 1989, the ATDO opened Woodpeckers Tap Dance Center at 170 Mercer Street, near Houston Street in New York City. Mr. Coles served as Woodpeckers's chairman; Gregory Hines (who claimed that Woodpeckers was \"the world's only tap-only center and had \"the finest tap floor I've been on\") was a member of the board. Woodpeckers began creating, producing, and presenting various educational programs for adults and children. It also initiated an annual winter tap intensive with master classes, courses and workshops taught by leading International artists and master tap dancers.\n\nA review in The New York Times in 1990 said, \"The rough-hewn little theater has the air of both a place where hard and serious work is done and a cozy family living room.\" \n\nThe Center closed in 1995 due to limited funding.\n\nATDO continued to perform and offer classes and workshops, renting classroom and rehearsal studios at various NYC locations and presenting new and classic works around the country and the world. Venues included Lincoln Center's Walter Reade Theater, the Sammy Davis Jr. Festival Plaza in L.A., and Gus Giordano's Jazz Dance Congress 96, (Washington, D.C.'s Kennedy Center) as well as on live television in Rome, Italy, at the Stadttheater Furth Germany, and at the Rio de Janeiro Tap Festival, Brazil.\n\nTowards the end of 2001, ATDO was renamed the American Tap Dance Foundation (ATDF). The reasons were twofold: first, the new name allowed for a broader focus. The change reflected a new generation of tap dancers and a renewed focus on establishing the first-ever Center for Tap – an international home for dancers, based in New York City. Bufalino stayed on as an artistic mentor and Tony Waag became the Artistic/Executive Director.\n\nThe new name also reflected the fact that an organized ensemble no longer existed.\n\nIn 2009 the Foundation was awarded an American Masterpiece Grant from the National Endowment for the Arts to reconstruct two ATDO pieces, \"Buff Loves Basie Blues,\" and \"Haitian Fight Song,\". Both have been subsequently performed by ATDF at various venues around the country including Symphony Space and the Joyce Theater in New York City.\n\nOn January 4, 2010, the ATDF relocated to a 3,000 square foot space in Greenwich Village that includes two large dance studios as well as office space.\n\nThe ATDF presents a variety of year-round educational programs, performances, festivals, classes, and public city-wide events.\n\n\"Rhythm in Motion\", is an annual showcase for tap choreographers to showcase their work. The showcase includes works by emerging and established tappers and aims to highlight the \"rich diversity of contemporary tap dance.\" In 2015, RIM featured new choreography by MacArthur Fellow, Michelle Dorrance, Brenda Bufalino, Derick K. Grant, Chloe Arnold, and others over a five-day, six-performance program.\n\nThe ATDF organizes \"Tap City\", which has been called, \"The preeminent annual tap dance festival of the world.\". This annual week-long international event features classes, panels, screenings, and performances. Highlights include awards ceremonies, concert performances, and \"Tap it Out\", a free, public, outdoor event performed in Times Square by a chorus of 300 people \"in a pre-choreographed orchestral collage of \"a cappella\" unison rhythms, contrapuntal sequences, individual riffs, movements and grooves.\" \n\nIn 2001, ATDF created the annual Hoofer Award to be presented to prominent tap artists as leaders in the community for their unique contribution to the form and for inspiring future generations. Recipients have included:\n\n\nATDF also created the Tap Preservation Award in 2001 to honor an outstanding organization or individual for the superior advancement of tap dance through presentation and preservation. It founded the International Tap Dance Hall of Fame in 2002 which includes such notable tap dancers as Bill Robinson, Eleanor Powell, Fred Astaire, the Nicholas Brothers, Jeni LeGon, Ann Miller, Gregory Hines, and Gene Kelly among many others. ATDF co-created the Gregory Hines Collection of American Tap Dance with the Jerome Robbins Dance Division at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "17102646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17102646", "title": "Architectural design values", "text": "Architectural design values\n\nArchitectural design values make up an important part of what influences architects and designers when they make their design decisions. However, architects and designers are not always influenced by the same values and intentions. Value and intentions differ between different architectural movements. It also differs between different schools of architecture and schools of design as well as among individual architects and designers.\n\nThe differences in values and intentions are directly linked to the pluralism in design outcomes that exist within architecture and design. It is also a big contributing factor as to how an architect or designer operates in his/her relation to clients.\n\nDifferent design values tend to have a considerable history and can be found in numerous design movements. The influence that each design value has had on design movements and individual designers has varied throughout history.\n\nThe expansion of architectural and industrial design ideas and vocabularies which took place during the last century has created a diverse aesthetic reality within these two domains. This pluralistic and diverse aesthetic reality has typically been created within different architectural and industrial design movements such as: Modernism, Postmodernism, Deconstructivism, Post-structuralism, Neoclassicism, New Expressionism, Supermodernism etc. All of these aesthetic realities represent a number of divergent aesthetic values, in addition to differences in general values and theories found within these movements. Some of the stylistic distinctions found in these diverse aesthetic realities reflects profound differences in design values and thinking, but this is not the case for all stylistic distinctions, as some stylistic distinctions builds on similar thinking and values.\n\nThese aesthetic values and their diverse aesthetic expressions are to some degree a reflection of the development that has taken place in the art community. In addition, more general changes have taken place in Western societies, due to technological development, new economic realities, political changes etc. However, these diverse aesthetic expressions are also a reflection of individual architects and industrial designers’ personal expression, based on designers’ tendency to experiment with form, materials, and ornament to create new aesthetic styles and aesthetic vocabulary. Changes in aesthetic styles and expressions have been, and still are, both synchronic and diachronic, as different aesthetic styles are produced and promoted simultaneously.\n\nA number of values which cannot be classified as aesthetic design values have influenced the development of the aesthetic reality, as well as contributed to the pluralistic aesthetic reality which characterises contemporary architecture and industrial design.\n\nAesthetic Design Values, contains seven values.\n\nIt is characterised by a belief that individual self-expression—or one’s inner spiritual self and creative imagination, inner resources and intuition—should be utilised and/or be the base used when designing. These sentiments are closely linked to a number of artistic values found in movements like Expressionism and the Avant-garde art. Thus, this design value is closely related to abstract forms and expression, personal creative liberty, elitism and being ahead of the rest of society.\n\nThis design value is based on the conception that every age has a certain spirit or set of shared attitudes that should be utilised when designing. The Spirit of the Times denotes the intellectual and cultural climate of a particular era, which can be linked to an experience of a certain worldview, sense of taste, collective consciousness and unconsciousness. Thus “form expression” which can be found, to some extent in the “air” of a given time and each generation, should generate an aesthetic style that expresses the uniqueness related to that time.\n\nStructural Honesty is linked to the notion that a structure shall display its “true” purpose and not be decorative etc. Functional honesty is linked to the idea that a building or product form shall be shaped on the basis of its intended function, often known as “form follows function”. Material honesty implies that materials should be used and selected on the bases of their properties, and that the characteristics of a material should influence the form it is used for. Thus, a material must not be used as a substitute for another material as this subverts the materials “true” properties and it is “cheating” the spectator.\n\nThis design value is based on the idea that simple forms, i.e. aesthetics without considerable ornaments, simple geometry, smooth surfaces etc., represents forms which are both truer to “real” art and represents “folk” wisdom. This design value implies that the more cultivated a person becomes, the more decoration disappears. In addition, it is linked to the notion that simple forms will free people from the everyday clutter, thus contribute to tranquillity and restfulness.\n\nThis design value is based on the idea that nature (i.e. all sorts of living organisms, numerical laws etc.) can provide inspiration, functional clues and aesthetic forms that architects and industrial designers should use as a basis for designs. Designs based on this value tend to be characterized by free-flowing curves, asymmetrical lines and expressive forms. This design value can be summed up in “form follows flow” or “of the hill” as opposed to “on the hill”.\n\nThis value is based on a belief that a building and product should be designed from timeless principles that transcend particular designers, cultures and climates. Implicit in this design value is the notion that if these forms are used, the public will appreciate a structure’s timeless beauty and understand immediately how to use a given building or product. This design value is also linked to regional differences i.e. varying climate etc. and folklore cultures, which creates distinctive aesthetical expressions.\n\nThis design value is based on the belief that building—and to some degree products—should be designed in accordance with the particular characteristics of a specific place. In addition, it is linked to the aim of achieving visual harmony between a building and its surroundings, as well as achieving continuity in a given area. In other words, it strives to create a connection between past and present forms of building. Finally, this value is also often related to preserving and creating regional and national identity.\n\nMany architects and industrial designers have a strong motivation to serve the public good and the needs of the user population. Moreover, social awareness and social values within architecture and design reflect, to some degree, the emphasis these values are given in society at large.\n\nIt should be noted that social values can have an aesthetical impact, but these aspects will not be explored as the main aesthetical impact found in design has been covered in the previous sections. Social design values are at times in conflict with other design values. This type of conflict can manifest itself between different design movements, but it can also be the cause of conflicts within a given design movement. It can be argued that conflicts between social values and other design values often represent the continuing debate between Rationalism and Romanticism commonly found within architecture and industrial design.\n\nThe Social Design Values category consisting of four design values.\n\nThis design value can be described as a commitment to change society for the better through architecture and industrial design. This design value is closely connected and associated with political movements and subsequent building programs. Architects and industrial designers that are committed to the design value of social change often see their work as a tool for transforming the built environment and those who live in it.\n\nThis design value is based on a belief that it is beneficial to involve stakeholders in the design process. This value is connected to a belief that user involvement leads to:\n\nThis design value is based on the belief that the built environment can be manipulated to reduce crime levels, which is attempted accomplished through three main strategies that are: \n\nThis is based on an eagerness to help developing countries through architecture and design (i.e. a response to the needs of the poor and destitute within the Third World). This design value implies that social and economic circumstances found in the Third World necessitate the development of special solutions, which are distinct from what the same architects and industrial designers would recommend for the developed world.\n\nThe 20th century has been marked by the re-emergence of environmental values within Western societies. Concern for the environment is not new and can be found to a varying degree throughout history, and it is rooted in a number of perspectives including the aim of managing the ecosystems for sustained resource yields (sustainable development), and the idea that everything in nature has an intrinsic value (nature protection and preservation). Generally behind these types of thinking are the concepts of stewardship and that the present generation owes duties to generations not yet born.\n\nEnvironmental problems and challenges found in the 19th and 20th centuries led to a development where environmental values became important in some sections of Western societies. It is therefore not surprising that these values can also be found among individual architects and industrial designers. The focus on environmental design has been marked with the rediscovery and further development of many “ancient” skills and techniques. In addition, new technology that approaches environmental concerns is also an important characteristic of the environmental approach found among architects and industrial designers. These rather different approaches to environmental building and product technology can be illustrated with the development of environmental high-tech architecture, and the more “traditional” environmental movement within is ecological based architecture.\n\nEnvironmental technology, along with new environmental values, have affected development in cities across the world. Many cities have started to formulate and introduce \"eco-regulations concerning renewable resources, energy consumption, sick buildings, smart buildings, recycled materials, and sustainability\". This may not be surprising, as about 50% of all energy consumption in Europe and 60% in the US is building-related. However, environmental concerns are not restricted to energy consumption; environmental concerns take on a number of perspectives generally, which are reflected in the focus found among architects and industrial designers.\n\nThe environmental design values category consists of three design values.\n\nThis value is based on a belief that a sustainable and/or environmentally friendly building approach is beneficial to users, society and future generations. Key concepts within this design value are: energy conservation, resource management, recycling, cradle-to-cradle, toxic free materials etc.\n\nThis is based on a belief that existing buildings, and to some degree products, can be continuously used through updates. Within this value there are two separate schools of thought with regards to aesthetics: one camp focuses on new elements that are sublimated to an overall aesthetic, and the other advocates for aesthetical contrast, dichotomy and even dissonance between the old and the new.\n\nThis design value is based on the belief that the built environment can contribute to ensuring a healthy living environment. Built into this design value, are principles like: buildings should be freestanding; sites need to be distributed to maximize the amount of sunlight that reaches individual structures. Similarly, there is an emphasis on health based construction and reduction of toxic emissions through selection of appropriate materials.\n\nWithin both architecture and industrial design there is a long tradition of being both inspired by and re-use design elements of existing buildings and products. This is the case even if many architects and industrial designers argue that they are primarily using their creativity to create new and novel design solutions. Some architects and industrial designers have openly led themselves be inspired by existing building and products traditions, and have even used this inspiration as the main base for their designs solutions.\n\nThis design tradition has a considerable history, which can be indicated in many of the labels associated with this tradition; this includes labels such as Classicism, Vernacular, Restoration and Preservation etc. In addition, as indicated in the previous section “Classic, Traditional and Vernacular aesthetics”, an important element of this tradition is to re-use and be inspired by already existing aesthetical elements and styles. However, the traditional approach also implies other aspects such as functional aspects, preserving existing building traditions as well as individual buildings and products.\n\nThe Traditional Design Values category, consisting of three distinct values.\n\nThis relies on a belief that traditional “designs” are the preferred typology and template for buildings and products, because they “create” timeless and “functional” designs. Within this design value there are three main strategies:\n\nThis is based on a commitment to preserve the best of buildings and products for future generations. This design value tends to represent restoring a building or product to its initial design and is usually rooted in three perspectives. These are: \n\nThis value is based on a belief that a simple life and its design, closely linked to nature, are superior to that of modernity. The design value of Vernacular includes key concept such as: \n\nThis design values is closely linked to the feminist movement and theory developed within the 19th and 20th centuries. Design values based on gender are related to three tenets found in architecture and industrial design, which are: \n\nDesigners that adhere to the Design values based on gender typically have a focus on creating buildings that do not have the same barriers that children, parents and the elderly experience in much of the built environment. It also implies a focus on aesthetics that are deemed to be more 'feminine' than the 'masculine' aesthetics often created by male designers.\n\nMany architects and industrial designers often dread the financial and business side of architecture and industrial design practice, as their focus is often geared towards achieving successful design quality rather than achieving successful economic expectations.\n\nThis is the basis for a design value that can be characterised as 'voluntarism' or 'charrette ethos'. This value is commonly found among practising architects and designers. The 'volunteer' value is founded in the belief that good architecture and design requires commitment beyond the prearranged time, accountant’s budget, and normal hours. Implicit in the 'volunteer' value are elements of the following claim present: \n\nThe 'volunteer' design value can be seen as a reaction to and a rejection of the client’s influence and control over the design project.\n\nIt is common within contemporary architecture and industrial design to find emphasis on creating novel design solutions. This emphasis is often accompanied by an equally common lack of emphasis on studying of the appropriateness of any already existing design solution.\n\nThe novel design value has historical roots dating back to early design movements such as Modernism, with is emphasis on “starting from zero”. The celebration of original and novel design solutions is, by many designers and design scholars, considered one of the main aspects of architecture and design. This design value is often manifested through the working methods of designers. Some architects and designers with their emphasis on the “big idea” will have a tendency to cling to major design ideas and themes, even if these themes and ideas are faced with insurmountable challenges. However, the emphasis on design novelty is also associated with progress and new design solutions that, without this emphasis, would not see the light of day.\n\nThe design value of novelty is not generally accepted within either architecture or design. This is indicated by the debate in architecture, focusing on whether buildings should harmonize with the surroundings in that they are situated in or not. Equally is the debate where architecture should be based on traditional topology and design styles i.e. classical and vernacular base architecture or if it should be an expression of its time. The same issues are indicated within the industrial design domain where it has been debated if retro design should be accepted or not as good design.\n\nA movement to base architectural design on scientific and mathematical understanding started with the early work of Christopher Alexander in the 1960s, \"Notes on the synthesis of form\". Other contributors joined in, especially in investigations of form on the urban scale, which resulted in important developments such as Bill Hillier's Space syntax and Michael Batty's work on Spatial analysis. In architecture, the four-volume work The Nature of Order by Alexander summarizes his most recent results. An alternative architectural theory based on scientific laws, as for example A Theory of Architecture is now competing with purely aesthetic theories most common in architectural academia. This entire body of work can be seen as balancing and often questioning design movements that rely primarily upon aesthetics and novelty. At the same time, the scientific results that determine this approach in fact verify traditional and vernacular traditions in a way that purely historical appreciation cannot.\n\nSocial and environmental issues are given a new explanation, drawing upon biological phenomena and the interactivity of groups and individuals with their built environment. The new discipline of biophilia developed by E. O. Wilson plays a major role in explaining the human need for intimate contact with natural forms and living beings. This insight into the connection between human beings and the biological environment provides a new understanding for the need for ecological design. An extension of the biophilic phenomenon into artificial environments suggests a corresponding need for built structures that embody the same precepts as biological structures. These mathematical qualities include fractal forms, scaling, multiple symmetries, etc.. Applications and extensions of Wilson's original idea are now carried out by Stephen R. Kellert in the Biophilia hypothesis, and in by Nikos Salingaros and others in the book \"Biophilic Design\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23281219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23281219", "title": "BPI-DOST Science Awards", "text": "BPI-DOST Science Awards\n\nOrganized in 1989 by the BPI Foundation, Inc., the corporate social responsibility arm of the Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI), with the Department of Science and Technology (DOST), the BPI-DOST Science Awards recognizes exceptional science and engineering students from partner-universities nationwide. These students are individuals whose efforts made them excel in specialized fields of science such as mathematics, physics, engineering, chemistry, biology, and computer science. The awardees are recognized for their potential contributions to industry and nation-building, and are selected on the basis of their academic and research performance and nomination from the school.\n\nThe preparation for the awards is a very long and tedious process. Every year in June, the BPI Foundation selects three entries from the 10 partner universities. By July all the invitations, materials, and all preparations are ready. Acceptance of formal nominations close in October. By February, all the preparations for the awarding ceremonies are completed.\n\nEach year, the foundation gathers the three best entries from each of the 10 partner universities. These are Ateneo de Davao University, Ateneo de Manila University, De La Salle University, Saint Louis University, Silliman University, University of the Philippines (Diliman and Los Baños), University of San Carlos, University of Santo Tomas, and Xavier University – Ateneo de Cagayan.\n\nTo qualify, the nominee must be a Filipino citizen and a regular student majoring in the following fields: mathematics, physics, chemistry, engineering, computer science, and biology. The nominee must have a consistent and outstanding academic, leadership, and research record in their school.\n\nThe schools must submit their nominees to the BPI-DOST Science Committee.\n\nThe BPI handles the business feasibility of the research while DOST assesses the scientific aspect. From 30 research projects, the evaluators trim down the entries to 12 semifinalists. DOST again narrows them down to six finalists.\n\nThe finalists then undergo oral evaluation by a joint BPI-DOST panel of experts. The experts choose the winners of the Best Project of the Year Awards.\n\nThe main criteria for judging projects are adherence to scientific soundness, relevance and impact on knowledge advancement, commercial viability, and the originality of the study.\n\nWinners get a P200,000 research grant, a P50,000 cash incentive and a trophy. First- and second-prize winners receive P30,000 and P10,000, respectively, and trophy each.\n\nAll the original 30 outstanding student awardees chosen get P25,000 cash prizes, trophies and an invitation to work as BPI junior officers.\n\nFrom 1989 to 2004, equal awards were given to the top 3 candidates from each university. Note that awards were first given to candidates from Silliman University and Xavier University in 1990, and Ateneo de Davao University in 1994, and Saint Louis University in 1998.\n\nFrom 2004 to the present, the format was changed, in which a single winner and 2 runners-up were selected from the top candidates of various universities\n"}
{"id": "32137054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32137054", "title": "Bali Nusra Tangi", "text": "Bali Nusra Tangi\n\nThe country of Indonesia consists of more than 17,000 islands and hundreds of different cultures. Each region has its own traditional costume. One of the unique traditional costumes worn in Bali, East Nusa Tenggara (NTT) and the West Nusa Tenggara (NTB) islands located in the eastern region of Indonesia. The three areas were once a single province known as a Lesser Sunda (Bali, East and West Nusa Tenggara). Bali Nusra is a short form of Bali Nusa Tenggara Islands or Lesser Sunda Islands. And Tangi is a place in NTT.\n\nTraditional cultural wealth is a point of strength whereby people can improve their livelihoods, thus undoubtfully its preservation efforts must be supported. \"Several efforts in preserving these things are presented through various exhibitions of local products such as tenun weaving, typical traditional culinary, and assortments of handicrafts from Bali, NTB and NTT,\" stated the Commander of Regional Military IX/Udayana Bali NTT NTB, Major General TNI Hotmangaradja Pandjaitan, moments after the pre-event opening. Bali Nusa Tenggara Tangi 2009 traditional cloth exhibition is a result of this idea, a fashion event based on traditional cloth such as the tenun that is woven in Bali, NTB, and NTT, in cooperation with the Indonesian Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Yayasan Cita Abdi Bangsa Foundation, and Rumah Pesona Kain.\n\nTangi, which means 'to rise', became the underlying theme of the Bali and Nusa Tenggara collective event. According to Pandjaitan, many local cultural products deserve to be presented to the international stage. The process of creating the crafts by hand with natural materials is something that deserves high regard. A number of programs enhancing the local cultural products of the three provinces included tenun ikat (weaving) competitions, handicraft exhibitions, and traditional culinary presentations from the three provinces, as well as presentations from the aforementioned national fashion designers.Furthermore, worth praising were the displays of the various traditional handicrafts together with souvenirs, jewelry and interior décor that continues to win the favor of national and international markets. Also presented were the manual processes of traditional natural dyeing demonstrated by a West Nusa Tenggara local.\n\nVarious tenun woven cloths from the three provinces were presented in a gallery layout where guests could examine the dazzling colors and motifs used throughout. A length of traditional Indonesian tenun is fully laden with traditional, sociological, artistic, and historical value, and tells of the developmental and enriching process of a certain community. As stated by Mrs.Tuti Pandjaitan, the head of the Kartika Chandra Kirana Regional Military Command IX/Udayana Association of Army Wives, \"On a piece of tenun cloth, one may find the dedication and resilience of the hands of crafters who create it. The artistic superiority of this traditional cloth presents a long journey in a diverse, rich and meaningful tradition.\" The tenun is an heirloom, and its weaving processes will never change by replacing it with machinery. To weave a length of tenun requires a month or more to finalize.\n\nPrior there were held competitions and workshops on tenun in Bali, NTB, and NTT. The judges were experts in the field of traditional tenun. \"The purpose was to increase the quality and enrich the present materials and traditional designs in order to improve the people's welfare,\" added Tuti Pandjaitan.\n\nAlso present was Bali's Governor Made Mangku Pastika and NTT's Governor Frans Lebu Raya. The Governor of NTB welcomed the idea from the Regional Military Command IX/Udayana and hoped that it would continue to present other cultural forms, such as performing arts. The next possibility is an exhibition or similar event in the two other provinces, such as in Mataram (NTB) and Kupang (NTT). \"This is giving momentum to elevate the nation's opus,\" he said.\n\nMeanwhile, Hotmangardja Pandjaitan explained that the role of the TNI was most importantly to unite the cultural diversity of the archipelago. The TNI also feels responsible for keeping the territorial integrity of the nation, not only during wartimes but also through times of peace. The event held by Regional Military Command IX/Udayana together with the Department of Culture and Tourism aims to uphold national integrity. The event was also made possible due to the active role of the Army Wives' Association - Persatuan Istri Prajurit (Persit) Kartika Chandra Korem 161 Kupang, Korem 162 Mataram, and Korem 163 Bali. Several fashion designs were also presented by the soldiers and wives who paraded onto the catwalk that night.\n\n"}
{"id": "1161176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1161176", "title": "Bitard", "text": "Bitard\n\nThe Bitard is a fabulous animal. It is the symbol of the ' or Order of the Venerated Bitard (May He be Blessed!), a student association of University of Poitiers (France) created in the 1920s. The members themselves are also called Bitards and in some occasions they wear a cape colored according to their rank in the Order, along with a faluche, the traditional French Student cap. The Bitards' faluche has the particularity of being decorated with a chevron and having its own code for the signification of insignias. The folklore of the Order refers to François Rabelais as the word ' appears twice in hunting outcomes in \"Pantagruel\".\n\nEach year, the Order organizes a one-week festival, called the \"\" (69th Students' Week). Various festive activities happen during this week, including a procession, drinking events and a Bitard hunting.\n"}
{"id": "6244789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6244789", "title": "Boy player", "text": "Boy player\n\nBoy player refers to male children, ranging in age from six or seven to their teens, who performed in Medieval and English Renaissance playing companies. Some boy players worked for the adult companies and performed the female roles, as women did not perform on the English stage in this period. Others worked for children's companies in which all roles, not just the female ones, were played by boys.\n\nIn the Elizabethan and Jacobean periods, troupes appeared that were composed entirely of boy players. They are famously mentioned in Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\", in which a group of travelling actors has left the city due to rivalry with a troupe of \"little eyases\" (II, ii,339); the term \"eyas\" means an unfledged hawk.\n\nThe children's companies grew out of the choirs of boy singers that had been connected with cathedrals and similar institutions since the Middle Ages. (Similar boy choirs exist to this day.) Thus the choir attached to St. Paul's Cathedral in London since the 12th century was in the 16th century molded into a company of child actors, the Children of Paul's. Similar groups of boy actors were connected with other institutions, including Eton, the Merchant Taylors School, and the ecclesiastical college at Windsor.\n\nThe boys were generally in the range of 8–12 years old (prepubescent boys are chosen as choirboys precisely because their voices have not yet \"broken\" with puberty). They were musically talented, strictly disciplined, educated in the trivium (grammar, logic, rhetoric), and sometimes fluent in Latin. The boys amounted to formidable competition for the companies of adult actors in Elizabethan England. Between 1558 and 1576 (the year James Burbage built The Theatre in London and the age of popular Elizabethan drama began), companies of boy actors performed 46 times at Court, versus only 32 times for companies of adult actors in the same period. The playwright John Lyly earned fame when his \"Euphuistic\" plays were acted at Court by the Children of Paul's in the 1580s.\n\nThe practice of children acting was never free of controversy, however (see Responses, below). In 1590 theatrical performances by the Children of Paul's were suppressed, largely due to Lyly's involvement in the Marprelate controversy. Companies of child actors went out of fashion, and did not return for a decade.\n\nIn 1600, however, the practice saw a resurgence: the Children of the Chapel performed at the private Blackfriars Theatre for much of the first decade of the 17th century. Their performances of the plays of Ben Jonson were especially popular, inspiring Shakespeare's lines about how the boys \"carry it away...Hercules and his load too\" in \"Hamlet,\" II, ii,360-2. (The Globe Theatre was decorated with a statue of Hercules, the playhouse's symbol.) The Children of Paul's were also acting publicly once again at this time.\n\nThe children probably attained their greatest notoriety during the \"Poetomachia\" or War of the Theatres (1599–1601). Two troupes were intimately involved on the competing sides: the Children of Paul's acted John Marston's \"Jack Drum's Entertainment\" (1600) and \"What You Will\" (1601) and Thomas Dekker's \"Satiromastix\" (1601), while the Children of the Chapel had Jonson's \"Cynthia's Revels\" (1600) and \"The Poetaster\" (1601).\n\nThe boys' troupes were strongly associated with the satirical comedy of Jonson, Marston, and Thomas Middleton, which has sometimes been described as a coterie drama for gentleman \"wits,\" in contrast to the popular drama of writers like Shakespeare and Thomas Heywood that was performed at the Globe and the other large public theatres. Yet the boys also played serious tragedies and contemporary histories, notably the works of George Chapman — \"Bussy D'Ambois,\" \"The Revenge of Bussy D'Ambois\", and the double play \"The Conspiracy and Tragedy of Charles, Duke of Byron\". Modern readers and theatergoers can only wonder what these productions were like. \n\nThe brand of coterie drama practiced by Jonson and others was often controversial, however; the official displeasure that greeted the play \"Eastward Ho\", which landed two of its authors in jail, also fell upon the boys who performed it. By 1606 the Children of Paul's had ceased performing, and the Children of the Chapel were no longer associated with the Royal Chapel and had lost royal patronage; they became merely the Children of the Blackfriars. The boys' troupes had ceased public dramatic performance and the fashion died out by about 1615. The Lady Elizabeth's Men was a new company granted a patent on April 27, 1615, under the patronage of King James' daughter Princess Elizabeth; it was composed, to some significant degree, of veterans of the children's companies, now grown to manhood.\n\nWhile controversial in their time, the children's companies had been effective in funnelling talented, educated, and experienced young actors into the adult companies. To recapture this influence, Richard Gunnell attempted to start a children's company with 14 boys and several adults when he built the Salisbury Court Theatre in 1629. The enterprise was not a success, because of a long closure of the theatres due to plague soon after its inception; but it did produce Stephen Hammerton, who went on to act with the King's Men, and became an early matinee idol among young women in the audience for his romantic leads. \n\nA limited renewal of the practice of children's companies came in 1637, when Christopher Beeston established, under royal warrant, the King and Queen's Young Company, colloquially called Beeston's Boys. The intent was in part to have a structure for training young actors — much as the choirs of the previous century had provided educated and capable talent (though the actors in Beeston's company tended to be older than the boys of the earlier troupes). After the elder Beeston's death in 1638, his son William Beeston continued the company, with uneven success, till the theatres closed in 1642; he even managed to re-form Beeston's Boys for a time once the theatres re-opened in the Restoration.\n\nIn playing companies of adult actors, boys were initially given the female parts, but women were permitted to act on the stage from December 1661. A law against women on stage was implemented in England until that time. Pre-pubescent boys were used for their unbroken voices, an accepted practice.\n\nBoy actors in adult companies apparently served as apprentices, in ways comparable to the practices of other guilds and trades of the age, though for shorter terms — perhaps two or three years instead of the usual seven. (The companies of adult actors were, in Elizabethan legal terms, retainers in noble households, and thus not subject to the legal statutes governing apprentices.) They performed female roles (and, of course, roles of male children if required) alongside adult male actors playing men or older female parts. In reference to Shakespeare's company, variously the Lord Chamberlain's Men (1594–1603) or the King's Men (1603 and after): Augustine Phillips left bequests to an apprentice, James Sands, and a former apprentice, Samuel Gilburne, in his will, read after his death in 1605; company members William Ostler, John Underwood, Nathan Field, and John Rice had all started their acting careers as Children of the Chapel at the Blackfriars Theatre.\n\nOne question has persisted: did boys play \"all\" female roles in English Renaissance theatre, or were some roles, the most demanding ones, played by adult males? Some literary critics and some ordinary readers have found it incredible that the most formidable and complex female roles created by Shakespeare and Webster could have been played by \"children.\" The available evidence is incomplete and occasionally ambiguous; however, the overall implication is that even the largest roles were played by boys or young men, not mature adults. In a recent detailed survey of the evidence for the ages of boy actors and their roles, scholar David Kathman concludes that \"No significant evidence supports the idea that such roles were played by adult sharers but a wealth of specific evidence demonstrates that they were played by adolescent boys no older than about twenty-one\". There are only two possible examples of adult actors playing female roles. The first appears in the cast list for John Fletcher's \"The Wild Goose Chase\", in which the veteran comedian John Shank is listed; the entry reads \"Petella, their waiting-woman. Their Servant Mr. \"Shanck\".\" However, Kathman argues that this refers to two roles, not one: Shank did not play Petella, but a comic servant who appears later in the play. The second example is the cast list for Thomas Heywood's \"The Fair Maid of the West\", in which Anthony Turner apparently played the tiny role of a kitchen maid. Kathman suspects this is merely a misprint, but concludes that even if Turner did play this role, there remains no evidence for adults playing leading roles.\n\nMany boy actors filled female roles for a few years, then switched to male roles. An example: John Honyman started playing female roles for the King's Men at the age of 13, in 1626, in Philip Massinger's \"The Roman Actor\". He played females for the next three years, through the King's Men's productions of Lodowick Carlell's \"The Deserving Favourite\" and Massinger's \"The Picture\" (both in 1629). Yet in 1630, at the age of 17, Honyman switched to male roles and never returned to female roles. Other boy players with the King's Men, John Thompson and Richard Sharpe, appear to have played women for a decade or more, to the point at which they must have been \"young men\" rather than \"boys.\" Theophilus Bird played a woman when he was in his early 20s; but then he too switched to male roles.\n\nAudience members occasionally recorded positive impressions of the quality of the acting of boy players. When one Henry Jackson saw the King's Men perform \"Othello\" at Oxford in 1610, he wrote of the cast's Desdemona in his diary, \"She [sic] always acted the matter very well, in her death moved us still more greatly; when lying in bed she implored the pity of those watching with her countenance alone.\" The mere fact that Jackson referred to the boy as \"she,\" when he certainly knew better rationally, may in itself testify to the strength of the illusion.\n\nMany Puritan preachers, who hated the theatre in general, were outraged by the use of boy players, which they believed encouraged homosexual lust. In 1583, Philip Stubbes complained that plays were full of \"such wanton gestures, such bawdy speeches...such kissing and bussing\" that playgoers would go home together \"very friendly...and play the sodomites, or worse.\" John Rainolds warned of the \"filthy sparkles of lust to that vice the putting of women's attire on men may kindle in unclean affections.\"\n\nIn response to such comments, the actor-playwright Thomas Heywood protested that audiences were capable of distancing themselves: \"To see our youths attired in the habit of women, who knows not what their intents be? Who cannot distinguish them by their names, assuredly knowing they are but to represent such a lady, at such a time appointed?\"\n\n\nThe boy player has been a popular subject in literary, theatrical and cinematic representations of the Elizabethan theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "54689506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54689506", "title": "British Academy Medal", "text": "British Academy Medal\n\nThe British Academy Medal is awarded annually by the British Academy to up to three individuals or groups. It is awarded for \"outstanding achievement that has transformed understanding of a particular subject or field of study in ... any branch of the humanities and social sciences\". It was first awarded in 2013. It is the first medal awarded by the British Academy for any subject within the remit of the academy. According to a reputation survey conducted in 2018, it is the third most prestigious interdisciplinary award in the social sciences, after the Holberg Prize and the Stein Rokkan Prize for Comparative Social Science Research.\n\nThree people were awarded the British Academy Medal in 2013.\n\n\nThree people were awarded the British Academy Medal in 2014.\n\n\nThree people were awarded the British Academy Medal in 2015.\n\n\nThree people were awarded the British Academy Medal in 2016.\n\n\nOn 27 September 2017, three individuals were awarded the British Academy Medal:\n\n\nOn 20 August 2018, three individuals were awarded the British Academy Medal:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "922756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=922756", "title": "Chronos (film)", "text": "Chronos (film)\n\nChronos ( ) is a 1985 abstract film directed by Ron Fricke, created with custom-built time-lapse cameras. Originally released in IMAX theaters, it is now available on DVD, Blu-ray and HD DVD.\n\n\"Chronos\" is 42 minutes long and has no actors or dialogue. The soundtrack consists of a single continuous piece by composer Michael Stearns. Filmed in dozens of locations on five continents, the film relates to the concept of time passing on different scales—the bulk of the film covers the history of civilization, from pre-history to Egypt to Rome to Late Antiquity to the rise of Western Europe in the Middle Ages to the Renaissance to the modern era. It centers on European themes but not exclusively. Other time scales include the passing of seasons, and the passing of night and day, and the passing shadows of the sun in an afternoon to the passing of people on the street. These themes are intermingled with symbolic meaning.\n\n\"Chronos\" shares its particular style with the film \"Koyaanisqatsi\" (1983), for which Ron Fricke was the cinematographer, as well as his later films \"Sacred Site\" and \"Baraka\" (1992). The theme of the film is \"the celebration of life\", and does not include the themes of technology as the culprit for society or \"life out of balance\", which were present in \"Koyaanisqatsi\". \"American Cinematographer\" described the film as \"a musical poem praising the evolution of Western man from Cairo to Los Angeles.\" The film was produced by Canticle Films, a production company founded by Fricke. Funding for \"Chronos\" came from the seed money acquired through the publicity surrounding the production of \"Koyaanisqatsi\".\n\nFricke designed and built a 65 mm camera for the film, which included a motion control system for the film's cinematography. The director also used the system in his later films.\n\nMichael Stearns, while composing the soundtrack for the film, used a custom-made instrument called \"The Beam\" to generate many of the sounds he required. The Beam was long, made of extruded aluminum with 24 piano strings of gauge 19-22.\n\nThe name of the film comes from the Ancient Greek word \"χρόνος\", \"krònos\", which means \"time\" and is also the source to many modern terms related to time, such as chronology, synchronous etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "714335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714335", "title": "Copy (written)", "text": "Copy (written)\n\nCopy refers to written material, in contrast to photographs or other elements of layout, in a large number of contexts, including magazines, advertising, and books.\n\nIn advertising, web marketing and similar fields, \"copy\" refers to the output of copywriters, who are employed to write material which encourages consumers to buy goods or services.\n\nIn publishing more generally, the term \"copy\" refers to the text in books, magazines, and newspapers. In books, it means the text as written by the author, which the copy editor then prepares for typesetting and printing. This is also referred to as \"editorial copy\", which is said to have two subdivisions, the body copy and the adjuncts to the body copy. The term's usage can be demonstrated in the way an editor decides to embed an advertising material directly into the editorial copy, which means that the ad would use the same font, layout presentation, feel of the editorial copy it is being integrated into. This concept underscores how the copy can also refer to the identity of the newspaper or the magazine since the method of composition and layout can define its brand and positioning.\n\nIn newspapers and magazines, \"body copy\" is the main article or text that writers are responsible for, is contrasted with \"display copy\", accompanying material such as headlines and captions, which are usually written by copy editors or sub-editors. \n\n"}
{"id": "54607293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54607293", "title": "Croatian checkerboard", "text": "Croatian checkerboard\n\nCroatian checkerboard or chequy (Croatian: \"šahovnica\" ) is the national symbol of Croatia and Croats, it covers the main shield of Croatian coat of arms above which is the crown with five smaller shields. Squares are always arranged correctly and they are red and white. It is considered to be one of the oldest national symbols in Europe.\n\nCroatian checkerboard or chequy and sometimes known as Croatian chessboard is translated from Croatian \"šahovnica\" (from \"šah\", \"chess\"). \"Kockovlje\" and \"kockice\" (both from \"kocka\", \"cube\") are often referred to Croatian checkerboard which is incorrect because checkerboard is made from geometric shapes and not from 3D geometric objects.\n\nThere is a legend probably from the 10th century, telling how Croatian king Držislav (named King Solomon), captured by the Venetian, played a chess match in which his opponent was Ducar II Orseolo. He got all three parties and thus gained freedom, and in some versions, power over the Dalmatian cities. Then he put the chessboard in his coat of arms.\n\nOne of the oldest coats of arms of the Croatian kingdom from 1495 is located in the Austrian town of Innsbruck and is located on the front of the temple hall of Herzog-Friedrichstrasse 35. It is assumed that the creation of the Croatian coat of arms was stimulated by the emperor Maximilian I. from whose time it originated the coat of arms of Innsbruck, but also some other coats of arms, preserved in today's Germany and Austria. It is also assumed that the number of preserved Croatian shielded coat of arms from the time of the Habsburg ruler should be thanked to the fact that the peace in Požun from November 7, 1491 gave him and his house the inheritance of the Hungarian-Croat throne in case Jagelovic's ruling house would not have legitimate male offspring, But also the stipulation that Maximilian I could keep the title of the Hungarian (and Croatian) king. For this reason, it would not be strange that he had just spurred the emergence of a Croatian chess coat, if it did not exist before. The Habsburgs, however, became Hungarian-Croatian kings only a few decades later, so it is more likely that the then rulers Jagelovići were to commemorate the use of that coat-of-arms.\n\nIn some quotations it is mentioned that the white color indicates White Croatia and Red Croatia. There is also a belief in the meaning of the color of the first field in the coat of arms, according to which the first white field is the independence of Croatia, and the first red field is its subordinate position, but this belief of the newer date does not have any confirmation in the earlier surrender. What would mean that Croatia today is in a subordinate position that is far from the truth.\n\nTypical red-white checkerboard is widely used on airports because of its recognizability and visibility. Checkerboard is used on roofs, water towers and other buildings around the airports. However, the use is not directly connected to national symbol of Croatia and Croats. Croatian Air Force MiG-21 UMD is painted in red-white Croatian checkerboard. Jerseys in sport events that use Croatian checkerboard are widely used by Croatian sport fans. Croatian checkerboard can be seen on various objects as a decoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "25130945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25130945", "title": "Cross of Justin II", "text": "Cross of Justin II\n\nThe Cross of Justin II (also known as Crux Vaticana, Latin for \"Vatican Cross\") is a processional cross dating from the sixth century that is kept in the Treasury in St. Peter's Basilica, in Vatican City. It is also a one of the oldest surviving claimed reliquaries of the True Cross, if not the oldest. It is a \"crux gemmata\" or jewelled cross, silver-gilt and adorned with jewels in gold settings, given to the people of Rome by the Roman Emperor Justin II, who reigned from 565 to 578, and his co-ruler and wife, the Empress Sophia. \n\nThe cross bears a Latin inscription reading: \"ligno quo Christus humanum subdidit hostem dat Romae Iustinus opem et socia decorem\" which is commonly mistranslated as \"For the wood [of the cross] with which human Christ was overcome by the enemy, Justin [and his consort?] give Rome this wealth and decoration\" A more accurate reading is: \"With the wood with which Christ conquered man's enemy, Justin gives his help to Rome and his wife offers the ornamentation.\" To mark the end of restoration and conservation work on the cross, it was placed on display in the main Basilica of Saint Peter's from November 2009 to April 12, 2010.\n\nThe original portion of the cross, which is now mounted on a much later stand, is 15.75 inches high and 11.81 inches wide, excluding the spike at the bottom for fitting into its stand. The cross was restored in 2009; it has been altered and restored at several points in its history, including reducing its size.\n\nThe front of the cross has no figurative images: in the centre is a medallion containing the relic, which is itself displayed as cross-shaped. The centres of the arms carry the inscriptions, and the edges of the arms jewels in set in gold, with four jewels hanging from the arms as pendilia. The reverse side is decorated in repoussé silver, and shows an interesting transitional stage in the decoration of the cross. At the period the church was starting to encourage representation of the human figure of Christ on the cross, making a crucifix, which had previously not been usual. The central medallion shows the Lamb of God, a common older formula. Above and below this are images in medallions of Christ (the lower one may be John the Baptist instead). The upper one shows Christ holding a book, representing the Gospels, which was to become a standard feature of the image of Christ Pantocrator; in the lower one Christ or John has a blessing gesture. At the ends of the arms, where the Virgin Mary and Saint John the Evangelist would often be found in later crucifixes, are instead portraits in medallions of Justin and his empress Sophia. Between the medallions there are decorative foliage scrolling motifs, on the upright centred on onion-like plants probably intended as palm-trees.\n\nIn 569, Justin and Sophia together reportedly sent a relic of the True Cross to the Frankish princess Radegund, who founded a monastery at Poitiers to house it. The event was commemorated in \"Vexilla Regis\" by Venantius Fortunatus. They are also recorded as sending relics to Pope John III (reigned 561-574) in an attempt to improve relations – the Crux Vaticana very likely dates from John's reign, perhaps around 568 or 569. Older scholars thought, mainly on the basis of imperial head-dress, that Justin I (r. 518-27) and his empress Euphemia were the donors, but this view seems now rejected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11580204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11580204", "title": "Dream sharing", "text": "Dream sharing\n\nDream sharing is the process of documenting or discussing both night and day dreams with others. One of the primary purposes of sharing dreams is dream interpretation.\n\nThe sharing of dreams dates back at least as far as 4000-3000 BC in permanent form on clay tablets. In ancient Egypt, dreams were among the items recorded in the form of hieroglyphics. In ancient Egyptian culture dream sharing had a religious context as priests doubled as dream interpreters.\n\nThose whose dreams were especially vivid or significant were thought to be blessed and were given special status in these ancient societies. Likewise, people who were able to interpret dreams were thought to receive these gifts directly from the gods, and they enjoyed a special status in society as well.\n\nThe respect for dreams changed radically early in the 19th century, and dreams in that era were often dismissed as reactions to anxiety, outside noises or even bad food and indigestion. During this period of time, dreams were thought to have no meaning at all, and interest in dream interpretation all but evaporated. This all changed, however, with the arrival of Sigmund Freud later in the 19th century. Freud stunned the world of psychiatry by stressing the importance of dreams, and he revived the once dead art of dream interpretation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36894282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36894282", "title": "Eye poke", "text": "Eye poke\n\nAn eye poke, eye jab, eye stab, eye strike or poke in the eye is a strike at the eye or eyes of a human or animal. It is typically made with the fingers which may either be forked to jab both eyes or held together, like a bird's beak, to strike with force and protect the fingers from damage. The attack became better known among the public due to its use in comedy; the idea of using it to entertain was likely invented by the vaudeville duo of Joe Weber and Lew Fields.\n\nIn sporting events, a losing fighter will sometimes break the rules, and poke someone in the eye leading to the fight be ended as \"no decision,\" thus preventing them from taking a loss. Some events try to prevent eye poking by having fighters wear gloves with webbing over the fingers.\n\nIn a street fight situation, when one's opponent may be trying to inflict serious harm, martial arts expert Kelly McCann advises that the eyes should be a \"persistent primary target\". An eye poke needs little power to be effective, and it can stop even highly determined attackers. If the hand is kept at an approximately 45° angle to the opponent's face during the strike, there is less risk of hurting ones fingers, and even if they do not connect with the eye, the palm can impact on the opponent's face. \n\nThe eye poke was a signature move in the slapstick antics of the comedy and vaudeville act The Three Stooges, who mastered the technique. In reality, the Stooges poked each other on the eyebrows to avoid actual injury. The form of attack was well known among children who watched the show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37371", "title": "Fiestas Patrias (Mexico)", "text": "Fiestas Patrias (Mexico)\n\nFiestas Patrias () in Mexico originated in the 19th century and are observed today as five public holidays.\n\nThis day () commemorates the Constitution of 1917, promulgated after the Mexican Revolution on February 5. Article 74 of the Mexican federal labor law (\"Ley Federal del Trabajo\") provides that the first Monday of February (regardless of the date) will be an official holiday in Mexico marking this occasion. This was a modification of the law made in 2005, effective since 2006; before that, it was celebrated on February 5 regardless of the day of the week in which the date occurred.\n\nThis day () commemorates President Benito Juárez's birthday on March 21, 1806. Juárez is popularly regarded as an exemplary politician because of his liberal policies that, among other things, defined the traditionally strict separation of the church and the Mexican state. Article 74 of the Mexican labor law (\"Ley Federal del Trabajo\") provides that the third Monday of March (regardless the date) will be an official holiday in Mexico. As with Constitution Day, the holiday was originally celebrated every year on the same date (March 21), but the federal labor law was modified in 2005 so the holiday is always celebrated on a Monday.\n\n\"Día del Trabajo\" () commemorates the Mexican workers' union movements on May 1 — specifically, the 1906 Cananea, Sonora, and the 1907 Río Blanco, Veracruz, labor unrest and repression.\n\n\"Grito de Dolores\" (on the evening of September 15) and \"Aniversario de la Independencia\" (September 16) commemorate Father Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla's \"Grito de Dolores\" — on September 16, 1810, in the village of Dolores, near Guanajuato. Hidalgo called for the end of Spanish rule in Mexico. On October 18, 1825, the Republic of Mexico officially declared September 16 its national Independence Day (\"Dia de la Independencia\").\n\nMexican Independence day, also referred to as \"Dieciséis de septiembre\", is celebrated from the evening of September 15 with a re-creation of the \"Grito de Dolores\" by all executive office-holders (from the President of the Republic down to municipal presidents) and lasts through the night.\n\nThis day commemorates the Mexican Revolution which started on November 20, 1910 when Francisco I. Madero planned an uprising against dictator Porfirio Díaz's 31-year-long iron rule. Article 74 of the Mexican labor law (\"Ley Federal del Trabajo\") provides that the third Monday of November (regardless the date) will be an official holiday in Mexico. This was a modification of the law made in 2005, effective since 2006; before then, it was November 20 regardless of the day, and all schools gave extended holidays if the day was a Tuesday or Thursday. Although November 20 is the official day, the uprising started on different days in different parts of the country.\n\nContrary to common misconception in the U.S.,\n\"Cinco de mayo\" is not Mexico's \"Independence Day\", but rather commemorates an initial victory of Mexican forces over French forces in the Battle of Puebla on May 5, 1862.\n\nIn contrast to Independence Day, described above, \"Cinco de mayo\" is observed mostly at a local level (Puebla State) and is a minor Bank Holiday in the rest of Mexico. Many labor unions have negotiated to have the day off, however, since its proximity to Labor Day (May 1) often allows an extended five-day weekend or two consecutive three-day weekends.\n\n"}
{"id": "11059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11059", "title": "Five Pillars of Islam", "text": "Five Pillars of Islam\n\nThe Five Pillars of Islam (' ; also ' \"pillars of the religion\") are five basic acts in Islam, considered mandatory by believers and are the foundation of Muslim life. They are summarized in the famous hadith of Gabriel.\n\nThe Shia, Ahmadiyya, and Sunni agree on the essential details for the performance and practice of these acts, but the Shia do not refer to them by the same name (see Ancillaries of the Faith, for the Twelvers, and Seven pillars of Ismailism). They make up Muslim life, prayer, concern for the needy, self-purification, and the pilgrimage, if one is able.\n\n\"Shahada\" is a declaration of faith and trust that professes that there is only one God \"(Allah)\" and that Muhammad is God's messenger. It is a set statement normally recited in Arabic: \"lā ʾilāha ʾillā-llāhu muḥammadun rasūlu-llāh\" () \"There is no god but God (and) Muhammad is the messenger of God.\" It is essential to utter it to become a Muslim and to convert to Islam.\n\n\"Salah\" (\"ṣalāh\") is the Islamic prayer. \"Salah\" consists of five daily prayers according to the Sunna; the names are according to the prayer times: \"Fajr\" (dawn), \"Dhuhr\" (noon), \"ʿAṣr\" (afternoon), \"Maghrib\" (evening), and \"ʿIshāʾ\" (night). The Fajr prayer is performed before sunrise, Dhuhr is performed in the midday after the sun has surpassed its highest point, Asr is the evening prayer before sunset, Maghrib is the evening prayer after sunset and Isha is the night prayer. All of these prayers are recited while facing in the direction of the Kaaba in Mecca and form an important aspect of the Muslim Ummah. Muslims must wash before prayer; this washing is called \"wudu\" (\"purification\"). The prayer is accompanied by a series of set positions including; bowing with hands on knees, standing, prostrating and sitting in a special position (not on the heels, nor on the buttocks). A Muslim may perform their prayer anywhere, such as in offices, universities, and fields. However, the mosque is the more preferable place for prayers because the mosque allows for fellowship.\n\n\"Zakāt\" or alms-giving is the practice of charitable giving based on accumulated wealth. The word zakāt can be defined as purification and growth because it allows an individual to achieve balance and encourages new growth. The principle of knowing that all things belong to God is essential to purification and growth. Zakāt is obligatory for all Muslims who are able to do so. It is the personal responsibility of each Muslim to ease the economic hardship of others and to strive towards eliminating inequality. Zakāt consists of spending a portion of one's wealth for the benefit of the poor or needy, like debtors or travelers. A Muslim may also donate more as an act of voluntary charity (\"sadaqah\"), rather than to achieve additional divine reward.\n\nThere are five principles that should be followed when giving the zakāt:\n\nThree types of fasting (\"Siyam\") are recognized by the Quran: Ritual fasting, fasting as compensation for repentance (both from sura Al-Baqara), and ascetic fasting (from Al-Ahzab).\n\nRitual fasting is an obligatory act during the month of Ramadan. Muslims must abstain from food and drink from dawn to dusk during this month, and are to be especially mindful of other sins. Fasting is necessary for every Muslim that has reached puberty (unless he/she suffers from a medical condition which prevents him/her from doing so).\n\nThe fast is meant to allow Muslims to seek nearness and to look for forgiveness from God, to express their gratitude to and dependence on him, atone for their past sins, and to remind them of the needy. During Ramadan, Muslims are also expected to put more effort into following the teachings of Islam by refraining from violence, anger, envy, greed, lust, profane language, gossip and to try to get along with fellow Muslims better. In addition, all obscene and irreligious sights and sounds are to be avoided.\n\nFasting during Ramadan is obligatory, but is forbidden for several groups for whom it would be very dangerous and excessively problematic. These include pre-pubescent children, those with a medical condition such as diabetes, elderly people, and pregnant or breastfeeding women. Observing fasts is not permitted for menstruating women. Other individuals for whom it is considered acceptable not to fast are those who are ill or traveling. Missing fasts usually must be made up for soon afterward, although the exact requirements vary according to circumstance.\n\nThe \"Hajj\" is a pilgrimage that occurs during the Islamic month of Dhu al-Hijjah to the holy city of Mecca. Every able-bodied Muslim is obliged to make the pilgrimage to Mecca at least once in their life. When the pilgrim is around from Mecca, he/she must dress in Ihram clothing, which, for men, consists of two white sheets. Both men and women are required to make the pilgrimage to Mecca. After a Muslim makes the trip to Mecca, he/she is known as a hajj/hajja (one who made the pilgrimage to Mecca). The main rituals of the Hajj include walking seven times around the Kaaba termed \"Tawaf\", touching the Black Stone termed Istilam, traveling seven times between Mount Safa and Mount Marwah termed \"Sa'yee\", and symbolically stoning the Devil in Mina termed Ramee.\n\nThe pilgrim, or the \"haji\", is honoured in the Muslim community. Islamic teachers say that the Hajj should be an expression of devotion to God, not a means to gain social standing. The believer should be self-aware and examine their intentions in performing the pilgrimage. This should lead to constant striving for self-improvement. A pilgrimage made at any time other than the Hajj season is called an \"Umrah\", and while not mandatory is strongly recommended. Also, they make a pilgrimage to the holy city of Jerusalem in their alms-giving feast.\n\nTwelver Shia Islam has five Usul al-Din and ten Furu al-Din, i.e., the Shia Islamic beliefs and practices. The Twelver Shia Islam Usul al-Din, equivalent to a Shia Five Pillars, are all beliefs considered foundational to Islam, and thus classified a bit differently from those listed above. They are:\n\n\nIn addition to these five pillars, there are ten practices that Shia Muslims must perform, called the \"Ancillaries of the Faith\" (Arabic: furūʿ al-dīn).\n\n\nIsma'ilis have their own pillars, which are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32129151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32129151", "title": "Flute method", "text": "Flute method\n\nIn music, a Flute method is a kind of specific textbook style manual for playing the flute. It usually contains fingering charts and/or scales and numerous different exercises, sometimes also simple etudes, in different keys, in ascending order as to difficulty (= in methodical \"progression\") or with a focus on isolated aspects like fluency, rhythm, dynamics, articulation and the like. Sometimes there are duets or even recital pieces, also with accompaniment. Such methods differ from etude books in that they are meant as a linear course for a student to follow, with consistent guidance, whereas volumes of etudes are not as comprehensive.\n\nAs typical instrumental methods are meant to function as textbooks supporting an instrumental teacher (rather than to facilitate self-teaching), usually no basic or special playing techniques are covered in any depth. Detailed instructions in this respect are only found in special, autodidactical methods.\n\nSome methods are specially tailored for students on certain skill levels or stages of psychosocial development. In contrast, a 'complete' method (sometimes in multiple volumes) is meant to accompany the student until he or she becomes an advanced player.\n\nMethods of certain authors or editors have achieved the status of standard works (reflecting regional and cultural differences) and are published or reissued by different publishing companies and often in new layouts or arrangements. The Suzuki Method is one of the most well known examples of this.\n\nThe following is a list of various methods of historical interest.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4953598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4953598", "title": "Guard of honour", "text": "Guard of honour\n\nA guard of honour (en-GB), guard of honor (en-US), also honour guard (en-GB), honor guard (en-US), also ceremonial guard, is a guard, usually military in nature, appointed to receive or guard a head of state or other dignitary, the fallen in war, or to attend at state ceremonials, especially funerals. In military weddings, especially those of commissioned officers, a guard, composed usually of service members of the same branch, form the Saber arch. In principle any military unit could act as a guard of honour. However, in some countries certain units are specially designated for guard of honour duty.\n\nGuards of Honour also serve in the civilian world for fallen police officers and other civil servants. Certain religious bodies, especially Churches of the Anglican Communion and the Methodist movement, have the tradition of an Honour Guard at the funeral of an ordained elder, in which all other ordained elders present \"guard the line\" between the door of the church and the grave, or hearse if the deceased is to be buried elsewhere or cremated. The practice of providing a guard of honour as a mark of respect also occurs in sports, especially throughout the Commonwealth of Nations.\n\nThe Algerian Republican Guard (Arabic: الحرس الجمهوري الجزائري, French: Garde républicaine algérienne), is a mainly ceremonial military corps of the Algerian Army which is composed of 6,000 troops. It is very similar to the French Army in its formation style. The Republican Guard includes a horse mounted cavalry unit and a musicak fanfare military band, with the cavalry detachment basing it's uniform and traditions in the roots of the military traditions of the famous Berber cavalry, the Numidian cavalry, the French cavalry, and the Arab cavalry.\n\nThe Egyptian Republican Guard is a division level unit in the Egyptian Army which is the seniormost unit in the Egyptian Armed Forces that has the responsibility of defending the President of Egypt, as well as major presidential and national institutions. It is a type of Praetorian Guard that is composed of dozens upon dozens of armored brigades, mechanized brigades and divisional artillery, Being the seniormost unit in the armed forces, the Republican Guard Division is the only major military unit allowed in central Cairo besides the troops of intelligence services and Central Security Forces.\n\nThe members of the Nigerian Presidential Guard Brigade are elite Nigerian soldiers which guards the residence of the President of the Federal Republic and his guests as well as perform ceremonial duties. It is similar to the American Secret Service.\n\nThe Red Guard of Senegal is a Senegalese Gendarmerie unit that is responsible for maintaining the security of the President of Senegal. It is similar to the ceremonial elements in the French Republican Guard. The unit's uniform is derived from the French colonial Spahi. The Red Guard is under the direct command of the Security Legion of the Senegalese Mobile Gendarmerie. It is composed of many units that serve ceremonial duties, with the most notable being the honour guard battalion and the mounted squadron.\n\nThe guard of honour unit in South Africa was the State Presidents Guard (Staatspresidentseenheid) until 1990. The unit has since been replaced by the National Ceremonial Guard in the South African National Defence Force. Permanent honour guards in the country had not existed prior to the Staatspresidentseenheid's founding in 1967. Following the abolition of apartheid in South Africa, the guard was disestablished, leaving the defense forces without an official guard of honour until 1995, when the NCG was founded.\n\nThe Regiment of Mounted Grenadiers serves as a part of the Argentine Army, serving as the presidential guard and ceremonial companions. Two unmounted grenadiers are stationed in front of the Pink House as a symbol of the ceremonial and honour guard.\n\nThe Brazilian armed forces and police have several troops for ceremonial usages. The most important of them is the Brazilian president's honour guard. It is composed of the 1st Guards Cavalry Regiment (1o Regimento de Cavalaria de Guardas – RCG, in Portuguese) – \"Independence Dragoons\", the Presidential Guard Battalion (Batalhão da Guarda Presidencial – BGP, in Portuguese) and the Cayenne Battery.\n\nThe Canadian guard of honour is formed from members of the Ceremonial Guard, an \"ad hoc\" unit drawn from all branches of the Canadian Forces (CF). Although the unit's members are derived from a variety of military units, the Ceremonial Guard uses similar uniforms to Canada's two Foot Guards regiments as a reflection of their traditional connection with those regiments. The unit comprises 400 people, including a Foot Guard company and the Band of the Ceremonial Guard. The Ceremonial Guard typically execute public duties in Ottawa during the summer months of the year. The Guard is mounted on dates such as Canada Day and Remembrance Day, inspected by the most senior dignitary in attendance. They may also be formed for repatriation ceremonies for fallen soldiers returning from combat. Public duties in Ottawa were performed by the Canadian Guards before the unit's disbandment in 1970.\n\nPrior to 2007, membership with the Ceremonial Guard was restricted to the Foot Guards of the Canadian Army. The Household Division of the Canadian Army had traditionally performed ceremonial duties, such as guard mounting or Trooping the Colour. The Household Division consists of two regiments of Foot Guards (the Canadian Grenadier Guards and the Governor General's Foot Guards) as well as one cavalry regiment (the Governor General's Horse Guards). Several other Canadian Army regimental units have also performed guard of honour duties, including the Royal 22nd Regiment, these units are active in events such as royal and state visits, national and provincial celebrations, state, military and civil funerals and ceremonies related to the work of the entire Armed Forces. Alongside these are detachments made up for ceremonial duties from both the Royal Canadian Navy and the Royal Canadian Air Force.\n\nThe 37th Infantry Presidential Guard Battalion, composed of five companies, a historical company and one artillery battery plus a military band, a fanfare trumpet section and Corps of Drums, is the President of Colombia's honour guard service regiment under the National Army of Colombia. It is stationed at the Casa de Nariño in Bogota where it The changing of the guard ceremony takes place three days per week and carries the traditions of Simon Bolivar's infantry guards company raised in the midst of the Spanish American wars of independence in 1815.\n\nThe Ceremonial Unit of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces provided honours for the Communist Party of Cuba, the Government of Cuba, and the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces. It is a sort of mix between Russian and German ceremonial formations, with the unit notably adopting the Germa goosestep. It's ceremonial duties are usuay performed at government buildings and notable areas in Havana, with the Plaza de la Revolución (the main square in the capital) and the Palace of the Revolution (the workplace of the President of Cuba). The main purpose of the military unit is the performance of the changing of the guard every half an hour at the José Marti Mausoleum in Santiago de Cuba. Prior to Fidel Castro's 1959 Cuban Revolution, honour guards were performed by units that resembled honour guard units in the United States, such as The Old Guard.\n\nHaitian honour guard duties are performed by the General Security Unit of the National Palace of the Haitian National Police (L'Unité de Sécurité Générale du Palais National, USGPN) which is a major specialized unit of the PNH. It has, since 1997, mainly ensured security at the Palais National and the security of the President of Haiti. The USGPN works with the Presidential Security Unit (Unité de sécurité présidentielle, USP) to protect the president, as well as intervene when a crime takes place and or assist police officers in their duties, outside of the USGPN's ceremonial ones. Funeral honors, state visits, and military parades are some of the many ceremonies that the USGPN takes in.\n\nThe Honour Guard in Mexico consists of members selected from the Navy, Army or Air Force, and report to the Secretariats of National Defense and the Navy, while the Estado Mayor Presidencial maintains, through the Army Presidential Guards Corps, a dedicated guards brigade. Some of their duties include protection of the Mexican flag in Zocalo, and the raising and lowering of it, as well as providing ceremonial guards at National Palace or Campo Marte during state visits to Mexico. \n\nThere are also those selected from other organizations, such as historic societies, schools, sports centers, celebrities, etc., but these are for national holiday events within the country. \"Escolta de la bandera\" or \"Escolta de guerra\" or \"Escolta de honores\" or simply \"La escolta\" is the term in Spanish for color guards and flag parties.\n\nEach uniformed service branch in the U.S. Armed Forces has its own official honour guard: Army, Marines, Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard. Most state national guard units have a ceremonial guard as well. \n\nThe official honour guard of every branch is located in the National Capital Region, though nearly every military installation will have its own honour guard for local ceremonies and events. The honour guard units in National Capital Region represent the military as a whole and the United States as a nation, and perform numerous ceremonies on behalf of the President of the United States. \n\nSince World War II, The Old Guard has served as the official Army Honor Guard and escort to the President, and it also provides security for Washington, D.C., in time of national emergency or civil disturbance. Arlington National Cemetery's Tomb of the Unknowns is guarded by members of the U.S. 3rd Infantry Regiment.\n\nMany local, state/provincial, national and federal public safety agencies maintain Honour Guards, Pipes & Drums and Buglers, including fire departments, law enforcement agencies, emergency medical services, and search and rescue, who typically use adaptations of military honour guards, and honour those who die in the line of duty (LODD-Line of Duty Death), off-duty but still on the job, and retirees, as well as participating in support of other agencies, and parades. Some Law Enforcement agencies are able to maintain a Rifle Team for 'three volley' salutes. Most, even those within major career paid agencies, are not paid for performing and preparing for the honor guard duty.\n\nThe Presidential Honor Guard Brigade is the joint service military unit mandated to ensure the immediate security of the President of Venezuela and his First Family and for the performance of public duties in the most important places in the country. The most distant antecedents of the Presidential Honor Guard go back to the Hussars Troop of Simon Bolivar, of the Venezuelan War of Independence and of the larger Spanish American wars of independence, raised in June 1815 and part of a more bigger guards brigade targeted for the immediate security of the Liberator, and the early 20th century 1st Cavalry Regiment \"Ambrosio Plaza\" that until the 1950s, albelt reduced to squadron size, provided the ceremonial security of the President and was modeled on the Prussian horse guards units of the late 19th century. The modern brigade serves as a ceremonial escort to the President of Venezuela at Miraflores Palace and attends all state arrival ceremonies conducted there, as well as providing security for the palace complex. The brigade also provides honor guards (i) at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Carabobo Field, Carabobo commemorating the memory of national heroes and the fallen of the Battle of Carabobo of 1821, (ii) at the Montana Barracks in Caracas in memory of the late Hugo Chávez; and (iii) at the National Pantheon in Caracas in memory of Bolívar and other national heroes buried there. The brigade also performs public duties functions as required. Brigade personnel come from all branches of the National Bolivarian Armed Forces of Venezuela and public security services. The brigade is commanded by a general or flag officer and includes a Presidential mounted escort of platoon or troop size.\n\nAside from the PHGB, there are two foot guards battalions in the NBAF, each also tasked with forming guards of honour and public duties:\n\n\nHonour guards from the Armed Forces of Armenia are provided by the Honour Guard Battalion of the Ministry of Defense of Armenia (\"Հայաստանի Պաշտպանության նախարարության Պատվո պահքի գումարտակը\", \"Hayastani Pashtpanut’yan nakhararut’yan Patvo pahk’i gumartakyl\"), which is stationed at the defense ministry's headquarters in Yerevan. The battalion was founded on the basis of the Honour Guard Unit of the 7th Guards Army of the Red Army. The Armenian Police also have their own Honour Guard Battalion, which serves under the auspices of the Yerevan police headquarters.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, military honor guards during state visits are provided by the Azerbaijani National Guard of the Special State Protection Service of Azerbaijan. A tri-service honor guard subordinate to the defense ministry is also available.\n\nHonour guards, as known as Combined Honour Guard of the People's Liberation Army (PLA), are provided by the Beijing Capital Garrison Command in Beijing, under the Central Theater Command and reporting directly to the General Staff. They marched as the first battalion in the military parade of the 35th, 50th, and 60th anniversaries of the People's Republic of China. They are often on parades led by a color guard detail carrying the PLA flag. Other than the Beijing Battalion, honour guards are mounted by the following units in the following regions:\n\n\nDuring the reign of the Ming Dynasty, that role was taken up by the Jǐnyīwèi (錦衣衛) or the Embroidered Uniform Guard.\n\nIn the Republic of China, the honour guard is provided by members from the three service branches of the Republic of China Armed Forces, including the ROC Army, ROC Navy and the ROC Air Force, usually present at the places as follows:\n\n\nThe National Day honour guard battalion is also made up of personnel of the honor guards companies of the aforementioned branches.\n\nIn India, the Tri-Services Guard of Honour is made up of men or women drawn from three services of the Indian military: the Indian Army, Indian Air Force, and Indian Navy. It is based at New Delhi and is of company size, present only during state visits. \n\nIn January 2015, during Barack Obama's state visit to India, Wing Commander Pooja Thakur became the first female officer to lead the guard of honour for a foreign leader.\n\nIn Indonesia, the unit institutionally intended to act as an honour guard for the President of Indonesia and towards foreign state leaders or officials visiting Indonesia is the Paspampres which is conducted at the national palaces of Indonesia (Merdeka Palace or Bogor Palace). The Paspampres forms as a special branch of the Indonesian National Armed Forces tasked for protective security duties towards the VVIP. \n\nThis special joint service command, other than being responsible for security of the President and Vice President of Indonesia also conducts Public duties, Quarter guard, Ceremonial, and Escort tasks for the national official residences. Public duties for the Merdeka Palace during state visits and holidays are tasked to the personnel of the \"State Protocol Escort Battalion\" (\"Batalyon Pengawalan Protokol Negara\" abbreviated \"Yonwalprotneg\"), a unit from each of the groups of the Paspampres consisting of chosen Military policemen.\n\nDuring the national ceremony commemorating the independence day of Indonesia in the Merdeka Palace at every 17 August, honour guards which line-up at the palace yard during the ceremony are part of the combined-forces honour guard which includes the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Police force. During this occasion, the Paspampres \"A\" Group acts as the honour guard for the national flag where they join marching with the Paskibraka. \n\nThe same format is seen in other parts of the country during the ceremony for commemorating the independence day of Indonesia with the honor guards tasked from local territorial Military or Police units in Provincial, city or regency level.\n\nThe 302nd JGSDF Security Company (Japanese: \"第302保安警務中隊\") is a police force unit under the direct control of the Eastern Army located in the Ichigaya garrison. When foreign leaders make state visit to Tokyo, The Special Ceremonial Detachment from the company is assembled at the Tokyo Imperial Palace or the Prime Minister's Official Residence to take part in the welcoming ceremony. The 115-strong personnel company is organized into three platoons, with each consisting of three honor guard squads. In wartime situations, the company serves as a military police unit.\n\nThe National Guard of Kyrgyzstan carries out official representative functions on behalf of the Armed Forces of the Kyrgyz Republic. The guard of honor is formed from the 701st Military Unit of the National Guard. The National Guard stands at attention at the National Flagpole on Ala-Too Square in Bishkek, and has been performing the changing of the guard ceremony every hour since 16 August 1998.\n\nThe guard of honour in Malaysia usually consists of the 1st Battalion, Royal Malay Regiment, which performs most ceremonial duties in Malaysia, such as Heroes' Day, visitation of diplomats and state leaders, National Day, guard duties at the Royal Palace of Malaysia, and many more, in the national level. The RMR also mounts the guard during state visits to the Ministry of Defense.\n\nState level guards of honour are mounted by the following units aside from the Royal Malay Regiment, which is also the guard of honour for the states of Kedah, Perak, Selangor and Pahang:\n\n\nUnits of the Royal Malaysia Police in Melaka, Penang, Sabah and Sarawak, as well as the Royal Malay Regiment and the Royal Rangers, mount guards of honour of the governors of these states. Guard of honour units are also found in the Royal Malaysia Police, The People's Volunteer Corps, the Fire and Rescue Department, and the Malaysia Civil Defence Force.\n\nHonour guards units of the Royal Malaysian Navy (RMN Honour Guard Battalion, Lumut) and the Royal Malaysian Air Force (RMAF Honour Guard Battalion or the RMAF College) are mounted in the presence of the Sultan of Selangor and the Sultan of Pahang, respectively, in events where each of the two service branches are involved. Visits to the MoD building by naval and air general and flag officers are also accompanied by the guard of honour units of these services.\n\nIn Nepal, the Guard of honour is formed from special troops from Nepalese Army. It is mainly given to the President of Nepal and the Prime Minister of Nepal. Foreign Heads of State also receives the Guard of Honour. Formerly, Guard of honour were given in Tribhuwan International Airport premises but since 2018, Government of Nepal changed the venue to Tundikhel. The first foreign state head to receive the Guard of honour at Tundikhel was Pakistan Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi during his visits to Nepal in March 2018.\n\nIn Pakistan, the guard of honour is provided by men drawn from three services of the Pakistan Armed Forces: The Pakistan Army, Pakistan Air Force, and the Pakistan Navy. A tri-service guard of honor company is stationed in Islamabad, the national capital, for services in state visits and important national holidays.\n\nThe Presidential Security Group provide honour guard services to the President of the Philippines in Malacañang Palace, especially during state visits to the country. The PSG is the only presidential guard service in Asia that is composed of men and women from the various uniformed organizations of the Philippines: the Armed Forces of the Philippines, the Philippine National Police, the Bureau of Fire Protection and the Philippine Coast Guard.\n\nThe AFP has 5 designated honour guard battalions mandated for public duties for events concerning the Armed Forces. They are:\n\nHonour Guard units are also present in the PNP and the PCG, and are mounted on important occasions of these two services.\n\nThe Guards-of-Honour (GOH) of Singapore are specially formed from all three services of the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF), namely, the Singapore Army (usually comprising personnel from the sole SAF Commando Formation unit, the 1st Commando Battalion), the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN) and the Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF), together with the Singapore Police Force (SPF), which are positioned at the forefront of major parades and significant state events, such as the country's National Day on 9 August. They are dressed in ceremonial attire (known as the No. 1 uniform), which, based on the unit's origin (the sole exception being the Navy), have various colours imbued on a thin strip running down the outer-sides of the pants (red for the Army, light-blue for the Air Force and black for the Police) and different and unique badges, medals, awards and buttons, and will be equipped with SAR-21 assault rifles which have bayonets attached to them. These GOH units will typically be contrasted by at least one or more contingents of their fellow troops and men in their regular uniform (the No. 4 uniform for the SAF units and the No. 3 uniform for the SPF unit).\n\nFor state-visits and other important ceremonial duties within the Istana compounds, the guard-of-honour group that is formed and mounted is provided by personnel from the Singapore Armed Forces Military Police Command.\n\nDuring the Joseon Dynasty, the role of guards of honour taken up by the Sumunjang, who reported directly to the Emperor and the Imperial Family with administrative responsibility to the Minister of Defense as part of the armed forces of the state.\n\nSouth Korea today operates several guards of honour companies under the Republic of Korea Armed Forces - one each from the Republic of Korea Army, Republic of Korea Navy, Republic of Korea Air Force and Republic of Korea Marine Corps, along with a traditional honour guard unit that is made up of soldiers from the 3rd Infantry Division. The traditional guard in particular was founded in 1991 after president Roh Tae-woo reviewed the Old Guard Fife and Drum Corps and the Commander-in-Chief's Guard of the 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment of the United States. Since then the traditional honour guards have taken the role of officially welcoming heads of state and other dignitaries. Roles of the honour guards as a whole include funeral honours for the fallen, ensuring the security of various military headquarters, and acting as ceremonial guards to Gyeongbok Palace and during state visits to the Blue House.\n\nFor ceremonial purposes the guards carry various rifles - the Army, Navy and Air Force carry the M16 rifle; the Marine Corps carry M1 Garands and the traditional guards carry ceremonial swords, arrows, spears and lances, keeping with the traditions of the Korean military and as a tribute to the guards units of the Imperial era. Their colour guards also reflect these influences as well. While the service guards units maintain their respective military bands based on the US and UK practices, the traditional guard unit also contains a Daechwita, a form of military band playing Korean traditional music for military ceremonies and events, and as such wears uniforms used by similar ensembles in the 19th century.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, the guard of honour is provided by men drawn from three services of the Sri Lankan Armed Forces. The Sri Lanka Army, the Sri Lanka Navy, and the Sri Lanka Air Force. A guard of honor is also drawn from the Sri Lanka Corps of Military Police. During the colonial era, the Lascarins provided the local guards of honour, apart from British Army, British Indian Army, or Ceylon Defence Force personal.\n\nIn Tajikistan, the guard of honour battalion is provided by men drawn from the four services of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Tajikistan: The National Army, Mobile Forces, Air Force, and the Border Troops, all under the command of the Ministry of Defence. Of the many roles of the Honour Guard Company of the Defence Ministry (), providing ceremonial honours for foreign dignitaries and Tajik government officials at the Kohi Millat and other official buildings is the highest and most importance of them all. The Presidential National Guard also sports its own honour guard battalion, with its allegiance being primarily to the President of Tajikistan in his/her position as Supreme Commander in Chief of the armed forces.\n\nIn Thailand, the honor guard role is taken on by the King's Guard (ทหารรักษาพระองค์; Thahan Raksa Phra Ong) units of the Royal Thai Armed Forces. The King's Guard come from all over the Thai military, owing allegiance towards the King of Thailand and the ruling Chakri dynasty.\n\nThe ceremonial uniform worn by the 1st and 2nd battalions of the 1st Infantry Regiment of the King's Guards features a scarlet tunic and bearskin cap; similar to the uniforms used by foot guards in the Commonwealth of Nations. The regiment's 3rd battalion uniform features a white tunic and pink facings, with a pink bearskin cap.\n\nUntil its 2016 disbandment, the Presidential Guard Regiment of Turkey acted as an honour guard regiment of the Turkish Armed Forces. At the time, it was the only ceremonial unit in the Turkish Land Forces, of which it was a part of. Today a joint service guard of honour company is in service in the TAF headquarters in Ankara, composed of select personnel from each service branch of the armed forces performing honor guard and public duties activities.\n\nCeremonial duties are usually served by the Independent Honor Guard Battalion of the Ministry of Defence. It composed of 100 soldiers representing the 3 main service branches of the armed forces, the Turkmen Ground Forces, Air Force and Navy. \n\nThe battalion is always in attendance in all military and social events invlolving the President of Turkmenistan, and other high-ranking officials in events such as state visits and military parades. The battalion is the first military formation to march on Independence Square in the annual Independence Day Parade. They also greet foreign leaders visiting Turkmenistan, as well as the Guard the National Museum of Turkmenistan. The battalion maintains a horse squadron for ceremonial escorts of foreign leaders visiting Ashgabat.\n\nCeremonial honour guards of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Uzbekistan, are provided by the Honour Guard Battalion of the Tashkent Military District (Uzbek: \"Toshkent harbiy okrugi faxriy qorovul tabibi\", Russian: \"Батальон Почетный караул Ташкентского военного округа\"), which is under the auspices of the Ministry of Defense and is based in the Tashkent Region. The battalion is composed of over 100 soldiers, with each platoon being made up of servicemen from different branches of the armed forces.\n\nTwo honour guard units fall under the People's Army of Vietnam:\n\nThe Honor Guard of the Armed Forces of Belarus is the primary honour guard company of the Republic of Belarus. It was created in 1995 as a result of a combination of 2 drill teams from different military academies in the country. The main honour guard is based in the capital of Minsk, while subordinate battalions are available all over the country. It is currently composed of personnel from the Army, Air Force, and Border Troops.\n\nNational Guards Unit (), established 1878, includes military units for army salute ceremonials, a band and a wind orchestra. In 2001 the National Guards Unit was declared the official military unit representing the Bulgarian Army and one of the symbols of modern state authority along with the flag, the coat of arms and the national anthem.\n\nIn Croatia, the Honour Guard Battalion () serves as the guard of honour. The Honour Guard Battalion performs protocol tasks for the needs of top-level state and military officials, as well as tasks related to the protection and security of the Commander-in-Chief (President of the Republic of Croatia). It consist of up to 300 members. The unit is under direct command of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia.\n\nCeremonial duties are usually served by the Castle Guard, a special unit of the armed forces of the Czech Republic, organized under the Military Office of the President of the Czech Republic, directly subordinate to the President of the Republic. The Army of the Czech Republic is represented by the Honor Guard of the Czech Armed Forces (CAF Honor Guard), which was founded in 2005.\n\nThe company is currently made of 38 soldiers who are organized in the following manner:\n\n\nThe Royal Life Guards is an infantry regiment of the Danish Army. It serves in two roles: as a front line combat unit, and as a guard/ceremonial unit to the Danish monarchy. Danish Amalienborg palace is guarded by this unit day and night. The Guard Hussar Regiment Mounted Squadron also serves ceremonial purposes, such as providing escorts for VIPs and performing public duties.\n\nThe Republican Guard of the National Gendarmerie provides both foot and horse-mounted guards of honour for the city of Paris. It specifically provides ceremonial security to the Élysée Palace, the Hôtel Matignon, the Palais du Luxembourg, the Palais Bourbon, and the Palais de Justice. A tri-service honour guard company composed of members of the Republican Guard, as well as personnel from the French Army, French Navy, French Air Force, and the French Foreign Legion, is also used for ceremonial services, primarily state visits.\n\nThe primary mission of the Wachbataillon is to perform the military honours for the German Federal President, Federal Chancellor, Federal Minister of Defense and the Inspector General of the Bundeswehr during state visits or on similar occasions. In addition, the Wachbataillon takes part in military events and ceremonies of major importance. A secondary mission is to perform ceremonial guard duty at the Ministry of Defense and other high-profile public places, and protect and guard the members of the German government and the Ministry of Defense.\n\nThe East German's Friedrich Engels Guard Regiment was the primary honour guard regiment of East Germany, forming part of the security for the Neue Wache.\n\nIn Greece, the Presidential Guard is a unit of the Greek Army guarding the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and the Presidential Palace. Its members, known as Evzones, must be taller than 1.85m and are trained hard as their duty includes standing completely still for more than an hour 4 times a day. They are famous for their military discipline, the ability to stand motionless without even blinking, their stylish walking and the uniform which derives from traditional Greek dress.\n\nThe Honour Guard in Hungary was the Hungarian Defence Forces 32nd Budapest Guard and Ceremonial Regiment () until 31 December 2006, at which time it was disbanded. From 1 January 2007 was the \"Ceremonial Battalion\" branch, part of the \"MH Támogató Dandár (MH TD, HDF Support Brigade)\" until 31 December 2010. Converted from 1 January 2011 to \"Nemzeti Honvéd Díszegység (National Home Defense Ceremonial Band)\" as part of the \"MH TD\" and achieved the service from 25 April. The official honour guard of the Hungarian People's Republic was the Hungarian People's Army's 7015th Ceremonial Regiment (Hungarian: Magyar Néphadsereg 7015 Dísz -és őrezred).\n\nIn Ireland, a guard of honour is drawn from the Irish Army and is called 'Garda Onóra' in Irish. It is inspected by the President of Ireland, Taoiseach or visiting dignitaries. Specifically, battalions from the Infantry Corps are drawn for guards of honour, to form the \"Ceremonial Military Guard\".\n\nIn Italy the unit institutionally intended to act as an honour guard to the President of the Italian Republic is the Corazzieri Regiment, a special branch of the Carabinieri. The Corazzieri follow the President during official occasions and are also partly responsible for the internal security of the Quirinal Palace. In addition to the Corazzieri, there are other honour units chosen from the different Armed Forces, specifically for representation purposes. These units have to stand guard at important places, such as the gates of the seats of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in the Altar of the Homeland, and at the gates of the Quirinal Palace.\n\nExample of honour units from the different Armed Forces are:\n\nDuring state funerals, honour guards are granted to the departed by the protocol. The guards are positioned at the entrance and the exit of the place in which the ceremony is held. Aside from the aforementioned services, honour guards are also found within the Guardia di Finanza, Polizia Penitenziaria and the Polizia di Stato. They perform the same duties mentioned above.\n\nThe Ceremonial Guard Battalion (\"Церемонијален гардански баталјон, Ceremonijalen gardanski bataljon\") is part of the Army of the Republic of Macedonia which is mainly used for ceremonial purposes. It is the personal guard of the President of the Republic of Macedonia. The National Guard can be often seen near the presidential palace, during official visits of foreign presidents or delegations, ceremonies and during the days of the flag. In 2010 the Ministry of Defence proposed and designed new uniforms for the guards. Both, the old and the new uniforms, are based on the uniforms of the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO) revolutionaries with some details of the other periods of the history of the Republic of Macedonia. Influence over the new design were based on the uniform worn by Bulgarian revolutionary Dedo Iljo Maleshevski and the uniforms of the 19th century Bulgarian Legion regiment which served in the Imperial Russian Army.\n\nThe Honour Guards in Netherlands consists of two guard regiments, Garderegiment Grenadiers en Jagers and Garderegiment Fuseliers Prinses Irene, both from the Royal Netherlands Army.\n\nGuard of honor detachments for public duties are present in the Royal Netherlands Navy and the Royal Netherlands Air Force.\n\nHans Majestet Kongens Garde (His Majesty The King's Guard in English) is a battalion sized honour guard unit of the Norwegian Army under the ceremonial command and patronship of the current King of Norway. Also known as the HMKG, the battalion comprises six companies, with the 3rd company, the famous band and drill company, being the premier ceremonial unit in the HMKG, mostly serving it's required public duties at Oslo's Royal Palace.\n\nThe Honour Guard unit in Poland is the \"Pulk Reprezentacyjny Wojska Polskiego (Representative Honour Guard Regiment of the Polish Armed Forces)\", created on 30 March 2018 on the basis of the Representative Honor Guard Battalion.\n\nAlso posted within its ranks is the Presidential Mounted Ceremonial Troop of the Armed Forces, which also acts as an honour guard and horse guard unit. Service branches of the Armed Forces, the Warsaw Garrison and other civil uniformed services all maintain honour guard units of their own.\n\nThe \"Brigada 30 Gardă „Mihai Viteazul” (Michael the Brave 30th Guards Brigade)\" of the Romanian Land Forces serves as the honour guard brigade of the Romanian Armed Forces. The brigade is present at ceremonial events and during visits from international officials. \n\nThe Romanian Gendarmerie maintains an honour guard unit, called \"Unitatea Specială de Gardă de Onoare și Protecție Instituțională București\" (Bucharest Institutional Protection and Honour Guard Special Unit), and a horse guards troop acting during state ceremonies and celebrations of the service. From 1947-1989, ceremonial duties were provided by the \"Garda de Onoare a Armatei Populare Române\" (Honor Guard Unit of the Romanian People's Army), which was a unit of company size.\n\nRussian honour guards have been considered to have laid out the foundation and model for honour guards in the former Soviet Union. Russia's primary honour guard (, Pochotny kara-ul) is the Kremlin Regiment of the Federal Protective Service of the Russian Federation, established in 1936. The 154th Preobrazhensky Independent Commandant's Regiment, established in 1979, serves as the official representative honour guard regiment of the Russian Armed Forces and serves as the main honour guard unit of the armed forces.\n\nMilitary districts and fleet formations of the Russian Navy also have their own honour guard companies. Examples of honour units from all three branches of the Armed Forces include:\n\n\nThe Russian Imperial Guards served as honour guards for the Russian Empire.\n\nThe Serbian Guards Unit is an elite unit within the Serbian Army, of brigade size, under the direct command of Serbian Armed Forces Chief of Staff. Its purpose to secure vital facilities of the defense system and performing military honours to highest foreign, domestic and military officials.\n\nFor the needs of Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army General Staff, the Guard Unit performs tasks within the scope of the military police work and the tasks in the field of logistics and security. Guard continues the tradition of Serbian Guard units which is now almost two centuries long. The first Guard unit formed in Serbia was created on the order of Prince Milos Obrenovic on St. George Day in 1830 in Pozarevac. The Guard Unit also sports the official military band of the Serbian Armed Forces - the Guards Band.\n\nOn top of bodyguard services & overseas deployment, the Spanish Royal Guard (Guardia Real) also perform ceremonial & honor guard services.\n\nHonour guard service is carried out by all units of the Swedish Armed Forces, although the Life Guards Regiment (Livgardet) in the Swedish Army accounts for the main part of honour guard services. The Royal Guards (Högvakten) at the Stockholm Palace and the Drottningholm Palace is the honour guard to the King of Sweden. The service is carried out by the Life Guards as well as other units of the Swedish Armed Forces including the Home Guard and other voluntary defence organisations.\n\nThe Grenadier company of the Life Guards is used as an honour guard at state visit welcoming ceremonies. A detachment of grenadiers is also used as honour guard at the opening of the Riksdag, when an incoming foreign ambassador meets with the King at an audience to present letters of credence and when the King attends an annual meeting of one of the Royal Academies.\n\n\"Drabantvakt\" (\"Royal Bodyguard\"), commonly known as \"Karl XI:s drabanter\" (\"The Bodyguard of Charles XI\") and \"Karl XII:s drabanter\" (\"The Bodyguard of Charles XII\") is a ceremonial guard used at state occasions such as state visits, investiture of a monarch, royal weddings and funerals etc. The guard was formed in 1860 based on historical royal bodyguards. The design of the uniforms of the guard is based on, but not identical to, uniforms used during the reign of Carles XI and Charles XII respectively. The guard consists of 24 soldiers and one officer selected from the Life Guards.\n\nThe Kyiv Presidential Honor Guard Battalion, which is Hetman Bohdan Khmelnytsky Independent Presidential Guard Regiment, is the official ceremonial guard of honour unit of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. It was formed from the guard of honour units in the Ukrainian SSR's Kiev Military District. Besides the HQ company, the battalion maintains three companies, a Military Band, and a Symbols Protection Company. The NGU National Honor Guard Battalion of the National Guard of Ukraine is actively in use for many ceremonial activities, and was also in service prior to the disbandment of the Internal Troops of Ukraine in 2014.\n\nA guard of honour is formed to present formal ceremonial compliments to royal or presidential dignitaries by a guard not exceeding 100 personnel (including three officers, one with a colour) with other particular distinguished individuals saluted by a guard not exceeding 50 personnel. A \"half guard\" is a colloquial term describing a guard of honour of not more than 50 personnel (including two officers, one with a colour). A guard of honour could have a single service contingent (e.g. army) or it could be a tri service (inter-service) affair. The guard commander, after saluting the dignitary (usually head of state), marches up to him or her and escorts him or her to inspect the guard (soldiers in formation). During the salute, the national anthems of both the dignitary's country and the host country are usually played by a ceremonial band.\n\nOnly a standard, guidon, Queen's Colour, or a banner presented by either a member of the Royal Family or the governor-general may be carried by a royal guard of honour. Only a regimental colour or a banner presented by a personage other than a member of the Royal Family may be carried on a half guard of honour. A smaller unit honouring distinguished visitors at a military installation is known as a \"quarter guard\". The commander is three paces in front of the second file from the right and accompanies the personage for whom the guard is mounted. An officer carrying the Colour stands three paces in front of the centre; if there is a third officer he will be three paces in front of the second file from the other flank.\n\nUnits that traditionally perform ceremonial duties, such as Guard Mounting (changing of the Queen's Guard) or Trooping the Colour, are the five regiments of Foot Guards and the Household Cavalry (Blues and Royals and Life Guards), which form the Household Division. The Royal Air Force's ceremonial unit is the Queen's Colour Squadron. The British Armed Forces do not have dedicated ceremonial units, although some units such as the Scots Guards have a battalion designated to perform public duties. Generally, units from all three services not deployed overseas will rotate and share public duties at various major historic landmarks (e.g. royal palaces and castles) through the country.\n\nThe Queen's Guard is primarily made up of units from the Household Division for royal palaces and public monuments—namely Buckingham Palace, St James's Palace, Windsor Castle, and the Tower of London—and other units from all three services of the British Armed Forces filling in when not deployed; in Scotland, Holyrood Palace and Edinburgh Castle are usually the responsibility of Scottish regiments or units based in Edinburgh. Occasionally units from Commonwealth militaries are given the honour.\n\nThe tri-service Federation Guard, consisting of members of the Australian Army, the Royal Australian Air Force and the Royal Australian Navy provides guards of honour for various ceremonies. It is the only military unit of its kind currently in the Australian Defence Force (ADF). All members of the guard are enlisted in their respective areas before volunteering for service in the guard. The rifle of choice is the L1A1 SLR.\n\nFijian Presidential Palace Guards serve as the official guard of honour unit of the President of Fiji. It is made up of members of all the different service branches of the Fiji Military Forces. It primarily serves its ceremonial duties at the Government House in the capital of Suva. The guards regularly take part in the changing of the guard at the government house. The uniform consists of a Red military shirt and a traditional Fijian Sulu. The guards main rifle that they carry is the AK-101.\n\nThe New Zealand Defence Force (NZDF) is represented ceremonially by a unit that is known commonly as the Royal Guard of Honour, which is a company sized (100 members) unit that is composed of members of soldiers of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, The company is the official honour guard of the Governor General, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, and the Chief of Defence Force. The company mostly performs it's public duties at national events such as the Anzac Day commemorations in the capital. The Army portion of the company is notable for it's most visible \"lemon squeezer\" hat.\n\nIn recent years, association football teams have shown their respect to teams in their own division which have already won their league title at the end of the season with games to spare by forming a guard of honour onto or off the pitch for their players. The applauding team forms two lines to make a corridor and the league winners pass through the corridor, generally in single file. The guard of honour is in some instances considered good form to perform but is not considered compulsory and teams may opt not to provide one, as especially tends to happen between teams considered particularly bitter rivals.\n\nThe same has occasionally been done for individual players meeting particularly momentous points in their career, such as when Scottish Premier league team Rangers squad did so for departing talisman Dado Prso and Chelsea controversially chose to do so in a pre-planned display in the middle of a match for John Terry's last game, causing significant delays to the game.\n\nIn Australian rules football, players will often form a guard of honour for those who are leaving the field after a landmark game or on their retirement game. For example, Fremantle formed a guard of honour for Fitzroy's last match in 1996. Melbourne and Essendon formed a guard in 2005 to honour Indian Ocean tsunami victim Troy Broadbridge. Collingwood and North Melbourne formed a guard of honour in 2006 for retiring player Saverio Rocca, who forged a successful goalkicking career at both clubs. After playing in the little league at half time of senior matches, the junior players line up to form a guard of honour for when the players return to the field.\n\nIn cricket, the guard of honour is used to celebrate the achievement of a player (usually as a batsman), normally used during a player's final game. The players' teammates or opposition form a cordon, with their bats at the second count of the draw saber forming an arch, and the successful player walks through. It may also be performed to mark a milestone, such as when a player breaks a world record. A player can receive guard of honour multiple times as they retire from different forms of the game separately. When a bowler retires, it would generally be when they leave the field for the final time, or when they play their final match in a certain venue of importance (away match, home ground, retiring on the same day a ground is due to be demolished).\n\nIn recent times guard of honour is usually done among Hockey players for those who have done something valuable for their country like Balbir Singh, Sr, Jamie Dwyer\n\n"}
{"id": "12061823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12061823", "title": "Hanok", "text": "Hanok\n\nA hanok () is a traditional Korean house. Hanoks were first designed and built in the 14th century during the Joseon Dynasty.\n\nKorean architecture considers the positioning of the house in relation to its surroundings, with thought given to the land and seasons. The interior of the house is also planned accordingly. This principle is called \"baesanimsu\" (Hangul: 배산임수; Hanja: 背山臨水), meaning that the ideal house is built with a mountain in the back and a river in the front. Hanok shapes differ by region. In the cold northern regions of Korea, hanoks are built in a square with a courtyard in the middle in order to retain heat better. In the south, hanoks are more open and L-shaped.\n\nA hanok is a Korean house which was developed in Korean Peninsula and Manchuria.\n\nEarly Time\nPaleolithic people in the Korean Peninsula stayed in caves or made temporary houses. In the Neolithic era, the temporary house developed into a dugout hut. They dug into the ground with a small shovel and built a small house which used rafters and columns. Woods was used for the rafters and columns, and straw was used for roof. In the Bronze Age, there were several columns in the house, so the area of house was extended relative to early houses. Iron Age \"Hanok\"(Hangul: 한옥) had Ondol(Hangul: 온돌). The house also used \"Giwa\"(Hangul: 기와), a kind of roofing tile which was made with baked soil. By using \"Giwa\" roof tiles, \"hanok\" developed a specific shape.\nThe Enlightenment\n\nThe Enlightenment saw many foreigners visit the hermit kingdom. For this reason, Christianity was spread, but it wasn't common. Anglicanism and Catholicism were particularly more common. Thus, early Churches utilized the \"hanok\" style. This church is located in Ganghwa County, Jincheon County, Cheongju. \nSouth Korea\nFrom the 1970s, the old architects learned today's architecture, they aware hanok as an old day's antiquated and inefficient architecture and demolished a lot of hanoks of historical value have been disappeared. In big cities of South Korea, only small clusters of hanoks remain. However, the value of hanok has been highlighted from the 2000s the efficiency of hanok's eco-friendly function and healing effectiveness has been emphasized. Today, the number of people who try to move into hanok is growing rapidly to cure diseases such as atopy and asthma which are mainly caused by environment. Recently, many other places try to follow the designs like hanok's gentility such as in public places;bathroom, signs and even private places;cafe.\nToday, some train stations are built in hanok design. (Jeonju station is famous)\nNorth Korea\n\nIn Gaesung, the traditional hanoks originally there remain and play a role as a tourist attraction. Kiwajibs are surrounding the hanoks.\nChina\n\nIn northeast China, hanoks also can be found and Koreans are living in hanoks building for themselves over 100 years. Also, from 2010, people are working on a project focused on making a hanok village in Heilongjiang, China.\n\nAccording to old paper about house in April 23 of 1907, the terms that Hanok appeared on the history for the first time. In that paper, Hanok was figure out the specific region where Jeong-dongroad, from Donuimun to Baejae school. At that time, instead of using Hanok, terms like 'Jooga'(It means living houses), 'Jaetaek'(It means all kinds of house) were used widespread. So 'Hanok' was only used special circumstance when latest house was built in somewhere. \n\nWhen era of Korea under Japanese rule, the ruler used terms such as 'Jooga' or 'Joseon House' when they were talking about house improvement. There was a record about hanok, however the specific terms of hanok, hasn't used prevalently. \n\nThe specific word, Hanok, appeared on Samsung Korean big dictionary in 1975, it defined as antonym of western house and of Joseon house, house of Korean style. After the 1970s, with urban development lots of Apartment, Row House was built in South Korea, a big number of Hanoks deappeared in every town. From that time, hanok was only called Korean traditional house.\n\nA broad sense of hanok refer Thatching, Neowa-jib(a shingle-roofed house), Giwa-jib(tile-roofed house) though, general meaning of hanok means only Giwa-jib(tile-roofed house) in Korea.\n\nThe environment-friendly aspects of traditional Korean houses range from the structure's inner layout to the building materials which were used. Another unique feature of traditional houses is their special design for cooling the interior in summer and heating the interior in winter.\n\nSince Korea has hot summers and cold winters, the 'Ondol (Gudeul),' a floor-based heating system, and 'Daecheong,' a cool wooden-floor style hall were devised long ago to help Koreans survive the frigid winters and to block sunlight during summer. These primitive types of heating and air-conditioning were so effective that they are still in use in many homes today. The posts, or 'Daedulbo' are not inserted into the ground, but are fitted into the cornerstones to keep Hanok safe from earthquakes.\n\nThe raw materials used in Hanok, such as soil, timber, and rock, are all natural and recyclable and do not cause pollution. Hanok's have their own tiled roofs (Giwa; Hangul: 기와), wooden beams and stone-block construction. Cheoma is the edge of Hanok's curvy roofs. The lengths of the Cheoma can be adjusted to control the amount of sunlight that enters the house. Hanji (Korean traditional paper, Hangul: 한지) is lubricated with bean oil making it waterproof and polished. Windows and doors made with Hanji are beautiful and breathable.\n\nThe shapes of Hanok differ regionally. Due to the warmer weather in the southern region, Koreans built Hanok in a straight line, like the number 1. In order to allow good wind circulation, there are open wooden floored living area and many windows. The shape of the most popular Hanok in the central region is like letter \"L\" or Korean letter \"ㄱ\", an architectural mixture of the shapes in the northern and the southern regions. Hanoks in the cold northern region, are box-shaped like Korean letter \"ㅁ\" so that it would be able to block the wind flow in building Hanoks. They do not have an open wooden floored area but the rooms are all joined together.\n\nThe structure of Hanok is also classified according to social class. Typically the houses of yangban (upper class), Jungin (middle class) and urban commoners with \"giwa\" (tiled roof) emphasized not only the function of the house, but also possessed great aesthetic value. On the other hand, the houses of the provincial commoners (as well as some impoverished yangban) with \"choga\" (a roof plaited by rice straw) were built in a more strictly functional manner.\n\nMany hanoks have been preserved, such as:\n\nGahoe-dong and Gye-dong in Jongno-gu, Seoul, are home to many hanoks, that have been remodeled into cafes, restaurants and teahouses.\n\nSungjosin, Samshinhalmi (one who gives birth to women), Kitchen God etc. believed by people that there are different kinds of gods related to the house of each enrollment. This belief is shared with the religion of the Ainu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25012873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25012873", "title": "History of virtual learning environments", "text": "History of virtual learning environments\n\nA virtual learning environment (VLE) is a system that creates an environment designed to facilitate teachers' management of educational courses for their students, especially a system using computer hardware and software, which involves distance learning. In North America, a virtual learning environment is often referred to as a \"learning management system\" (LMS).\n\nThe terminology for systems which integrate and manage computer-based learning has changed over the years. Terms which are useful in understanding and searching for earlier materials include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDevelops the \"Interactive Learning Network\" ILN 1.5, and installs it at several academic institutions including Cornell University, Yale Medical School and University of Pittsburgh. The ILN was the first e-learning system of its kind to leverage an install on top of a relational database MySqL.\n\n\n\n\nLater that year in October 2000, deploy the ArsDigita Community Education System (ACES) at MIT Sloan School. The system is called Sloanspace. The ArsDigita Community System as well as ACES in the next few years grow to OpenACS and .LRN\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7637082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7637082", "title": "Hyperforeignism", "text": "Hyperforeignism\n\nA hyperforeignism is a type of qualitative hypercorrection that involves speakers misidentifying the distribution of a pattern found in loanwords and extending it to other environments, including words and phrases not borrowed from the language that the pattern derives from. The result of this process does not reflect the rules of either language. For example, \"habanero\" is sometimes pronounced as though it were spelled with an (\"habañero\"), which is not the Spanish form from which the English word was borrowed.\n\nHyperforeignisms can manifest in a number of ways, including the application of the spelling or pronunciation rules of one language to a word borrowed from another, an incorrect application of a language's pronunciation, and pronouncing loanwords as though they were borrowed more recently. Hyperforeignisms may similarly occur when a word is thought to be a loanword from a particular language when it is not.\n\nAlthough similar, words that exhibit deliberate language-play (such as pronouncing \"Report\" with a silent in \"The Colbert Report\" or pronouncing Target as , as though it were an upscale boutique) are not, strictly speaking, hyperforeignisms. These are, instead, a way of poking fun at those who earnestly adopt foreign-sounding pronunciations of pseudo-loanwords.\n\nSimilarly, speakers who echo hyperforeign pronunciations without the intention of approximating a foreign-language pattern are also not practicing hyperforeignization; thus, pronouncing \"habanero\" as if it were spelled \"habañero\" is not a hyperforeignism if one is not aware that the word has been borrowed from Spanish.\n\nIn English, hyperforeignisms are seen in loanwords from many different languages. Many examples of hyperforeignisms are isolated examples, rather than ones showing a particular pattern applied to multiple words and phrases, though some patterns can be identified.\n\nReplacement with postalveolar fricatives and is one common mark of hyperforeignisms in English. This leads to pronouncing ‘’smörgåsbord’’ (with initial in Swedish) as , \"parmesan\" (from French ) as (the cheese itself is Italian, and this pronunciation may also have been influenced by the Italian word for the cheese, \"parmigiano\", which has a postalveolar affricate: ), and Mandarin Chinese terms like \"Beijing\" (with , which sounds like to English speakers) with : .\n\nIn Dutch, the letter combination represents at the beginning of a syllable, and at the end. However, most English speakers pronounce Dutch words such as \"Rooibosch\" and \"veldschoen\" with , more closely following the pronunciation rules for German spelling. In contrast, certain well-established Dutch surnames and place names in the United States dating to colonial times, such as Schuyler, have pronounced as , which is relatively closer to the Dutch pronunciation.\n\nA number of words of French origin feature a final that is pronounced in English but silent in the original language. For example, \"forte\" (used to mean \"strength\" in English as in \"not my \"forte\"\") is often pronounced or , by confusion with the Italian musical term of the same spelling (and same Latin origin, but meaning \"loud\"), which is pronounced . In French, the word \"forte\" is pronounced , with silent final , and the word for a person's strong point is actually \"fort\", with a silent t. Similarly, the noun \"cache\" is sometimes pronounced , as though it were spelled either (meaning \"seal\" or \"signature\") or (meaning \"hidden\"). In French, the final is silent and the word is pronounced . The word \"cadre\" is sometimes pronounced in English, as though it were of Spanish origin. In French, the final is silent and a common English pronunciation is .\n\nLegal English is replete with words derived from Norman French, which for a long time was the language of the courts in England and Wales. The correct pronunciation of Norman French is often closer to a natural contemporary English reading than to modern French: the attempt to pronounce these phrases as if they were modern French could therefore be considered to be a hyperforeignism. For example, the clerk's summons “Oyez!” ('Attention!') is commonly pronounced ending in a consonant, or .\n\nA common pattern is pronouncing French loanwords without a word-final , as with \"derrière\", \"peignoir\", and \"répertoire\".\n\nAnother common pattern, influenced by French morphophonology, is the omission of word-final consonants. Hyperforeign application of this tendency occurs with omission of these consonants in words with final consonants that \"are\" pronounced in French. This occurs notably in the term \"coup de grâce\", in which some speakers omit the final consonant , although it is pronounced in French as . Other examples of this include \"Vichyssoise\", the chess term \"en prise\", \"prix fixe\", and \"mise en scène\". There are many instances of this sort of omission connected with proper nouns. Some speakers may omit pronouncing a final or in names such as Saint-Saëns, Duras, Boulez, and Berlioz, though these words are pronounced in French with a final or .\n\nThe Norman French language furthermore gave Southern England some ancient family names that were once associated with the aristocracy. An example is \"Lestrange\" which is sometimes pronounced with its natural and contemporaneous French inflection, though it is more often pronounced like the English word \"strange\", .\n\nSpeakers of American English typically pronounce \"lingerie\" , depressing the first vowel of the French to sound more like a \"typical\" French nasal vowel, and rhyming the final syllable with English \"ray\", by analogy with the many French loanwords ending in , , , and . Similarly, the French-derived term \"repartie\" (, 'rejoinder') was changed to English spelling ('banter'), giving rise to a hyperforeign .\n\n\"Claret\" is often pronounced , without a final . However, it is historically an Anglicised (and genericised) version of the original French \"clairet\", with the more typically being pronounced and the stress falling on the first syllable: .\n\nMoët, a brand of French champagne, is often wrongly pronounced with a silent \"t\". The name is Dutch and so the correct pronunciation is \"mo-ette\" or \"mo-wett\" ].\n\nThe in the name of the Taj Mahal or \"raj\" is often rendered , but a closer approximation to the Hindi sound is . The in most words associated with languages of India is more accurately approximated as .\n\nAnother example is the pronunciation of \"Punjab\" as ; a closer approximation to the original is . This spelling of \"Punjab\" dates to British colonial rule and is intended to be pronounced according to English spelling rules, as with other words borrowed from Indian languages into English, such as curry, suttee, and mulligatawny, or other colonial-era names (\"Calcutta\"); a closer Romanization of the name is \"Panjāb\", from Persian for \"five waters\".\n\nThe in \"Adagio\" may be realized as , even though the \"soft\" of Italian represents an affricate . Similarly, English-speaking musicians render the Italian word \"mezzo\" as , as in the commonly used Italian loan-word \"pizza\", though the Italian pronunciation is , with a voiced , rather than a voiceless .\n\nThe name of the principal male character in Shakespeare's \"The Taming of the Shrew\" is spelled , intended to be the Italian name \"Petruccio\" (), reflecting more conventional English pronunciation rules that use to represent . However, the name is commonly pronounced , as though Shakespeare's spelling is genuinely Italian.\n\nSubstituting \"baristo\" for a male barista, when in fact \"barista\" is invariable in gender in Italian and Spanish (as are other words ending in the suffix \"-ista\") is a hyperforeignism. In Italian (and Spanish), the gender is indicated by the article; il (el) barista\" for a male and la barista\" for a female.\n\nThe word \"latte\" ('milk'), as in \"caffè latte\", is often misspelled as or , implying stress on the final syllable. However, \"latte\" has no accent mark in Italian and has the stress on the first syllable. This may be an analogy with French words such as \"frappé\" , where there is such an accent mark.\n\nItalian , as in \"maraschino\" or the brand name \"Freschetta\", is often mispronounced as English \"sh\" rather than the correct \"sk\", due to greater familiarity with the German pronunciation due to, for example, German surnames among Americans.\n\nBecause the Russian loanword \"dacha\" (дача ) looks like it could be German, the pronunciation , with a velar fricative, shows an attempt at marking a word as foreign, but with a sound not originally present in the source word. The more common pronunciation is , which sounds closer to the original Russian word.\n\nThe digraph of Spanish generally represents , similar to English . Hyperforeign realizations of many Spanish loanwords or proper names may substitute other sounds. Examples include a French-style in the surname \"Chávez\" and in \"Che Guevara\", or a German-influenced or Ancient Greek-influenced in \"machismo\". The in the Spanish word \"chorizo\" is sometimes realized as by English speakers, reflecting more closely the pronunciation of the double letter in Italian and Italian loanwords in English. This is not the pronunciation of present-day Spanish, however. Rather, the in \"chorizo\" represents or (depending on dialect) in Spanish.\n\nSome English speakers pronounce certain words of Spanish origin as if they had a tilde when they do not in the original language. For example, the word \"habanero\" is pronounced (without the tilde) in Spanish. English speakers may instead pronounce it , as if it were spelled ; the phenomenon also occurs with \"empanada\", which may be pronounced as if it is spelled . The city of Cartagena, Colombia is very commonly pronounced as if it were spelled .\n\nThe South American beverage, mate, is frequently spelled in English, adding an accent which, in Spanish, changes the pronunciation and meaning of the word (\"maté\" meaning 'I killed' in Spanish). The accented spelling may however serve a purpose, as it is interpreted by some English speakers to indicate that the word has two syllables and is not pronounced like the English word \"mate\" (). Following Spanish orthography though, the only 'correct' place to add an accent which matches the natural stress of the word (and therefore does not change its pronunciation) would be as \"máte\".\n\nHyperforeignisms occur in Polish sometimes with English loanwords or names. One example would be the name Roosevelt, which is pronounced , as if it started like \"goose\", even though a natural Polish pronunciation would be closer to the English one.\n\n\"Phenian\", now obsolete name for Pyongyang, which was a transcription of Russian , was pronounced , as if 'ph' represented voiceless labiodental fricative like in English.\n\nLoanwords from Japanese are often subject to hyperforeignism. The names of three of the four main islands of Japan, \"Honsiu\", \"Kiusiu\", and \"Sikoku\", are already Polish transcriptions with close approximations of Japanese sounds - , , , but are often pronounced with changing native into \"foreign\" . Other Japanese words use English transcription, which causes further problems. \"Tsunami\", which in original Japanese has the sound , present in Polish, is pronounced with effort to separate and , since it sounds more \"foreign\".\n\nIn Russian, many early loanwords are pronounced as native Russian words with full palatalization. Hyperforeignism occurs when some speakers pronounce these early loanwords without palatalization. For example: тема ('theme') is normally pronounced . A hyperforeign pronunciation would be , as if the word were spelled . Similarly, текст ('text') is pronounced , with the hyperforeign pronunciation being , as if it were spelled . Other examples include музей ('museum') > , газета ('gazette') > and эффект ('effect') . The variation is attributable to the tendency to use in foreign words after a consonant, even if it is not palatalized.\n\nIn Swedish \"chevré\" (as in \"chevré[ost]\" for 'chèvre cheese') is pronounced quite differently from the original French \"chèvre\" (possibly by false analogy with the Swedish \"grevé\" cheese, \"grevéost\").\n\nSimilarly \"entrecôte\", which can often be spelled , or , or some other combination of and or . More often than not, it is pronounced without a final .\n\nLike in Swedish, in Norwegian the entrecôte can be pronounced without the final . This might also happen in \"pommes frites\" (french fries), and the is often removed in the pronunciation of Béarnaise sauce. Also, non-French Latin words are pronounced with French rules, such as Tenerife, Don Quixote, Lasagne and Spaghetti Bolognese are all pronounced without the final -e, none of which is correct Norwegian, despite being in common usage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10423718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10423718", "title": "Index of fashion articles", "text": "Index of fashion articles\n\nThis is a list of existing articles related to fashion and clothing.\nFor individual designers, see List of fashion designers\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12458808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12458808", "title": "Institut für Unternehmenskybernetik", "text": "Institut für Unternehmenskybernetik\n\nInstitut für Unternehmenskybernetik (abbreviated IfU), is a German research institution dedicated to advancing the study of Entrepreneurial cybernetics and management cybernetics, founded in 1988 and located in Aachen, Germany.\n\nThe IfU is a widely dispersed networked institute, composed of members from exceedingly differentiated disciplines. As an affiliated institute of the RWTH Aachen University since 2003, the IfU is in constant contact with numerous other institutes associated with the university (e.g. Textile Technologies, the Research Institute for Rationalisation, and the Fraunhofer Institute for Production Technology). Moreover, the IfU is a member association of the AiF (German Federation of Industrial Research Associations), representing the 'management cybernetics' sector, and is therefore a contact partner for many interdisciplinary research projects. As an application orientated research institute, the IfU has been developing methods and tools specifically designed to fit the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises since 1988. In doing so it pursues the principal ‘out of the practice for the practice’ with an inductive research paradigm:\n\nIntroducing the institute, IfU focuses on the interaction between people, technology and organisations taking place within small to medium-sized enterprises. The Institute for Management of Cybernetics regards businesses as living systems, which convert information and resources into products or services through a series of compound processes. As a practice orientated and interdisciplinary science, the IfU aims to optimize these business processes by means of development and publishing of scientifically proven methods. The procedures implemented are always based on cybernetic principles- and in particular on the idea of a control loop, or feedback. This means that internal business processes are not straightforward input-output relationships but are constantly being influenced and changed by their own outcomes, i.e. they are recursive. Such a principal can have both aiding and debilitating effects but the IfU aims to help businesses implement and use it profitably.\n\nBeing able to recognise enterprises as open, socio-technological, economic, multifaceted and networked systems, the IfU helps to describe and explain the complex phenomena which occur within these contexts.\n\nThe Institute for Management Cybernetics e.V. (IfU) forms an institute cluster with the Center for Learning and Knowledge Management and the Department of Information Management in Mechanical Engineering at the RWTH Aachen University.\n\nThe IfU carried out projects in several areas of expertise; these cover cost-effectiveness, micro and start-up enterprises, co-operations processes and change management and are explained below in more detail.\n\nWhen estimating cost-effectiveness, the IfU places emphasis on both hard factors (e.g. costs, time) and soft factors (e.g. employee motivation and the communication culture) in its approach to economic appraisal. Following this initiative, an extensive overview of a business can be achieved. The NOWS technique (use-orientated cost-effectiveness evaluation) is one of the main software tools developed by IfU, as a means of helping enterprises make a profitability analysis. Because falsely estimated investments can steer companies towards crisis situations, it is very important that every decision maker considers all factors before making an investment. The software tool creates a graph based on all the factors integrated into the system, and as a result presents the enterprises with the best possible option of investment. Diverse aspects are considered in the analysis, leaving little to no room for insecurities; a stable investment scenario is presented.\n\nConsequently, several projects profited from this method; NowBITs - investments in computing services were valued and a code of practice was compiled. AutoPreforms - the efficient manufacture of fibre reinforced composites in the car industry.\n\nFor over ten years, the IfU has been aiming to find solutions in helping micro and start-up enterprises with the management of resources. Once the start-up incentives have phased-out, many young businesses reach a critical stage which is marked by a high number of bankruptcies. The reasons for failure of young businesses are multifaceted but are often associated with lack of experience. An exemplary undertaking is the Jungunternehmen Project - a method map was developed to provide the enterprises that reach this critical stage with the necessary support.\n\nAdditionally, with the intent to help enterprises use limited resources more efficiently by converting relevant information into applicable knowledge, the IfU researches success factors in co-operations processes and co-ordinates corresponding joint projects. To illustrate the work carried out in this field, in project SENEKA (Service networks for Education and Further Education ) the IfU has co-ordinated the cross-sectional task of innovation management.\n\nAs stipulated previously, the IfU carried out several projects in the field of change management to help organisations adapt to the fluctuating market conditions. CuBa Change is one of the newer developments. The project’s objective is to develop a practical and easy process of quality-orientated safeguard and adoption of Changes Processes for SMEs, whilst abiding by the more fundamental features of corporate culture. In this way a management-specific situational analysis of Change-Proposals will be enabled, increasing the likelihood of success and the ability to cope with the constant need to adapt to change.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52161408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52161408", "title": "Kronkåsa", "text": "Kronkåsa\n\nA kronkåsa (, plural \"kronkåsor\") is a form of elaborate drinking cup that was used during the Renaissance in Sweden.\n\nA kronkåsa is a drinking vessel where the handles are exaggeratedly long and elaborate, thus forming a kind of crown above the cup, hence the name. The crown cups made during the Renaissance were carved from a single root of spruce trees. Later copies from the 19th century were made using other types of wood. The decoration of the crown is likely derived from forms found in the woodwork details of imported late Gothic altarpieces. Many of the cups were painted brightly red.\n\nKronkåsor were used in Sweden during the Renaissance as a form of elaborate drinking vessel among the Swedish nobility. Although little is known of their origin, it has been suggested that they reflect an old tradition of elaborately carved wooden drinking vessels popular in Northern and Eastern Europe. The popularity of kronkåsor during the 16th century coincides with a breakthrough in the quality and popularity of wood carving as an art in general in Sweden. According to Olaus Magnus, writing in his \"A Description of the Northern Peoples\" in 1555, kronkåsor were made in south-western Finland (at the time part of the Swedish realm) and possibly in Västerbotten. About 20 kronkåsor survive to this day, most of them preserved in museums. Many of them are intimately connected to the Bielke family. When the Swedish National Heritage Board was created in 1630, its objective was to preserve ancient monuments and cultural heritage, including kronkåsor.\n\nKronkåsor were probably used during festive occasions and seem to have been only used by members of the nobility.\n"}
{"id": "28982719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28982719", "title": "Leveling mechanism", "text": "Leveling mechanism\n\nIn cultural anthropology, a leveling mechanism is a practice that acts to ensure social equality, usually by shaming or humbling members of a group that attempt to put themselves above other members. \n\nOne commonly given example of a leveling mechanism is the !Kung practice of \"shaming the meat\", particularly as illustrated by the Canadian anthropologist Richard Borshay Lee in his article \"Eating Christmas in the Kalahari\" (1969). When Lee gave the !Kung an ox as a Christmas gift, the !Kung responded by insulting the gift, calling it a \"bag of bones\" and joking that they would have to eat the horns because there was no meat on it. Lee later asked a man named Tomazo why his gift was insulted in this way. He responded that it was because the gift was arrogant. Lee asked what he meant by this and was told:\n\n"}
{"id": "7790570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7790570", "title": "Li Shoon", "text": "Li Shoon\n\nLi Shoon is a fictional villain of Chinese ethnicity created by H. Irving Hancock, first published in 1916. \nAs common in the pulp fiction of the times, the depiction of Li Shoon had considerable racial stereotypes. He was described as being \"tall and stout\" and having \"a round, moonlike yellow face\" topped by \"bulging eyebrows\" and \"sunken eyes\". He has \"an amazing compound of evil\" which makes him \"a wonder at everything wicked\" and \"a marvel of satanic cunning.\" \n\nLi Shoon is the absolute master of a secret society known as \"Ui Kwoon Ah-How\" whose membership numbers in the thousands or tens of thousands - not only Chinese like himself but also other Asian peoples including Filipinos as well as Malays, Indians, Japanese and various other \"Oriental\" ethnic groups. Members of the group kill unhesitatingly at his command, and he frequently gives such commands. Li Shoon is not a mere criminal, but a fanatic Chinese nationalist of a sort. He engages in numerous lucrative criminal activities, but these are not a goal in itself but a means to make the society under his control \"the wealthiest and most powerful body on earth\" and thereby \"rousing China from her centuries of sleep\" to \"take over mastery of Asia\". There is no explanation given why the other Asians involved (especially, the Japanese, whose own imperial ambitions were far more manifest at the time) would be so eager to achieve that goal. \n\nLi Shoon has numerous ingenious weapons at his disposal, such as the \"gas gun\", which leaves no trace and keeps detectives puzzled, and the \"lachesis venom\" whose victims' bodies become monstrously bloated. He has two trusted helpers and lieutenants, the Chinese Weng-yu and the Mongolian Ming who deals with torture and executions. \n\nLi Shoon's arch-enemy is an American \"gentleman adventurer\" named Donald Carrick, nicknamed \"The Human Hound\". Pulp fiction researcher Jess Nevins noted that Carrick is \"vain, self-satisfied, supernaturally lucky and supernaturally aggravating.(...) Rarely has one 'good guy' been so capable of driving a reader into the arms of the story's putative 'bad guy'.\" In the end, as was invariable in this subgenre, Carrick managed to kill Li Shoon after numerous daring adventures, chases by car and plane, explosions and acts of piracy on the open sea. However, Hancock brought Li Shoon back in a sequel and then killed him off once again. Altogether, it seems no accident that the series was named for Li Shoon and not for Carrick.\n\nAs Nevins notes, \"Li Shoon was a chip from the Fu Manchu block\". It should also be noted that the stories appeared shortly after the publication of Jack London's \"The Unparalleled Invasion\", in which Chinese expansion over Asia was presented as \"a major threat to the world\" ultimately justifying a complete genocide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2180476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2180476", "title": "List of national animals", "text": "List of national animals\n\nThis is a list of national animals. As of 2009, a total of 231 national animal symbols exist globally. Of the 192 countries in the world:\n\n"}
{"id": "48844208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48844208", "title": "Literature of Cameroon", "text": "Literature of Cameroon\n\nCameroonian literature is literature from Cameroon, which includes literature in French, English and indigenous languages.\n\nColonial-era writers such as Louis-Marie Pouka and Sankie Maimo were educated by European missionary societies and advocated assimilation into European culture as the means to bring Cameroon into the modern world. After World War II, writers such as Mongo Beti and Ferdinand Oyono analysed and criticised colonialism and rejected assimilation. Other older generation writers include Guillaume Oyônô Mbia, Mbella Sonne Dipoko, Francis Bebey, René Philombé and kenjo Jumbam.\n\nSome critically acclaimed writers include Imbolo Mbue, Patrice Nganang, Calixthe Beyala, Bate Besong, Gaston-Paul Effa, Werewere Liking, Ba'bila Mutia, John Nkemngong Nkengasong, Bole Butake, Leonora Miano, Francis B Nyamnjoh and Linus T. Asong.\n\nIn 2014, Imbolo Mbue signed a million dollar deal with Random House for her debut manuscript. The novel titled \"Behold the Dreamers\" follows the travails of a Cameroonian immigrant and a Lehman Brothers executive during the 2008 financial crisis.\n\nInternational and bilingual English-and-French literary prizes, Grand Prix of Literary Associations (GPLA), were launched in Cameroon in 2013, and are to date the main literary awards in Cameroon. They have already contributed to unveil or confirm many gifted authors, such as Eric Mendi, twice winner in the Belles-Lettres Category, , Fiston Mwanza Mujila, Felwine Sarr, to name a few. The GPLA also pay tribute to deceased authors through the \"Grand prix de la mémoire\", which was awarded to late Cameroonian author Sankie Maimo in the last edition (GPLA 2016).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33056513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33056513", "title": "Mental fact", "text": "Mental fact\n\nMental facts include such things as perceptions, feelings, and judgments. Mental facts are ultimately caused by physical facts, in that mental facts depend on physical and biological functions which are required for consciousness. The physical and biological processes which are necessary for consciousness enable conscious individuals to recognize physical and mental facts. Thus, mental facts are based on physical facts, and both physical and mental facts are required for the construction of social reality.\n\nAccording to John Searle, mental facts may be intentional or nonintentional, depending on whether or not they are directed at something.\n\n"}
{"id": "44783156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44783156", "title": "Modular music", "text": "Modular music\n\nModular music is music that originates from the combination and overlapping of different compositions one over the other. The compositions —also called modules— are written by one or many different composers in different moments. New modules can be added or removed to create a totally new work, a new composition, different from the original one.\nA modular composition can be expanded and extended in time, space and size.\n\nIn the high Medieval times, French monks discovered that superimposing two melodies and playing them contemporaneously would generate interesting acoustics. They really witnessed innovative acoustic combinations: the counterpoint; at first applied exclusively to voices, it came to fruition in Renaissance. The term originates from the Latin \"punctus contra punctum\", meaning \"point against point\".\n\nBy combining compositions rather than melodies, one obtains a modular project. The term “project” is more appropriate than “composition” because the shape of the work is not fixed and it will change when a new composition (module) is added or removed.\nThe concept of a musical work seen as something closed, limited and immobile evolves into a process of numerous aggregations that allow a composition to become infinite in principle. A modular project is a work in progress. Once a composition is completed, anyone can join in and take part to it, by adding new modules or even by removing modules that are considered unsuitable. The original module attracts new artists and stimulate them to create new works or compositions to be combined with the pre-existing modules. Each module, in turn, may become an original piece, a new starting point for other artists to join in and start a new process of aggregation.\nThere are no limits; each composer or artist is free to manage his or her material, add or remove modules in any way or form, without changing the original works created by another modular composers. The only rule of the modular method is that none is allowed to modify a module: composers can choose a combination of modules, can add his/her own works but cannot absolutely modify a pre-existing module.\n\nIn music history, however, there are examples of famous composers using the modular method unaware: Charles Gounod (1818–1893) composed his famous \"Ave Maria\" by adding a melody to the I Prelude in C major from Das Wohltemperierte Klavier by J. S. Bach (1685–1750). Neither one of the two composers willingly adopted the modular method of composition for their respective works; however, these are examples of modular music.\n\nFurthermore, the term Modular and/or Modular Music is often applied nowadays to Electronic Music especially: examples can be found in the Serge synthesizer, Modular synthesizer, in the work of composer and performer Scot Gresham-Lancaster, one of the early pioneers of \"computer network\" music which uses the behavior of interconnected music machines to create innovative ways for performers and computers to interact. Electronic music composer André Stordeur who composes exclusively on Serge synthesizer and in 2009 appeared on a version of Giacinto Scelsi's \"Tre Canti Popolari\", published by the Sub Rosa (label), where he played electronic distortion of live instruments. The music of Disc Jockey can be as well considered a modern example of modular music, where different and independent modules are mixed rather than overlapped, played simultaneously and the third modules represented by the Dj him/herself who interacts with the two ongoing modules (tracks).\n\n“In the initial approach, the artist may choose any stile, instrument and musical form, with no limits for the composer’s creativity“, whatsoever.\n“Once the first musical work is completed, which will be defined as Module A or original module, it becomes an opportunity for new composers to develop it by extending its dimension, fully respecting its integrity.\nModular composers, stimulated by the original work may in turn add their own creations, again expanding the original piece. This creates a hierarchy of modules. The first composition, the original module, becomes module A, the second or additional work added by another modular composer, becomes module B, and so on“.\n\n“Once located the original module (A), the composer of successive modules will aggregate with module B anticipating performance of his composition to be executed with the original module.\nThe following solutions therefore: A, or A+B.\nUpon the superimposition of ulterior modules (C, D, E …), the composition is well into the process of extension. The execution or performance of the individual pieces B and C as autonomous compositions is not expected.\nNot to be excluded the possibility of accepting modules B or C as original in terms of developing and expanding the creation replacing module A. \nIn fact nothing is to prevent further development by a third composer ignoring modules B or C and creating a new B module which will inaugurate a new expansionary orientation. This is referred to as Parallel Aggregations“.\n\n“When it is possible to perform the various modules according to a random selection, it becomes an independent aggregation. The original module A may be performed alone or in combination with the modules B and C. The same can be said for each module A,B and C.\nThe letters associated with each module are chronological references as to when the works were composed.\nAny combination is therefore possible: A, A+B, B, B+C, A+C, C, A+B+C“.\n\n“Modular scores may be developed on various planes (continuous aggregations and independent aggregations) each following their developmental criteria and rules of combination.\n\nThe aggregation to a modular project may in turn be constructed following the modular method described; that, which is valid for the macro-structure, is applicable to the internal development of individual modules, thus creating further sub module aggregations limited, however, in the level of intervention therefore establishing:\n\nOne exception to the rule which prohibits modifications to existing modules retained valid, is a particular case of aggregation: negative aggregation or of silences.\nAlthough there are no changes to the fundamental score in existence, the application of silences suppresses and eliminates some precise moments. Silences obscure, not because of disapproval but for added stimulation not as a result of what it did not do but a conquest of making an algebraic negative sign resulting in a spectacular motion of opposing an aggregation already occurred.“\n\nThe modular method in music has been theorized in 1998 by an Italian composer and arts theoretician, Stefano Vagnini, who developed his theory of open-source composition based on modular aggregation.\nWriter, painter, and art theorist Gian Ruggero Manzoni described the modular music of Vagnini's compositions as “circular like the existence, his works are not finished, but merely stimulus for new voices”.\nGreek history university professor Umberto Bultrighini describes \"Vagnini Modular Music’s ability to satisfy old needs and combine them with modern technology. ModulArt as the key answer to the need of defining the artist's work, finding the right balance between art, audience and copyrights\".\n\nSince 2000 the modular methodology has been spread involving worldwide composers through many modular projects. Several such compositions were performed in Europe, South America, Asia and in North America and discussed through conferences in Europe and in the United States. The approach is being academically discussed at the University of West Georgia and the Carrollton Cultural Arts Centre in the USA, at the “G. D’Annunzio” University of Chieti–Pescara Italy, and at the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Scotland. \nMinas Borboudakis has dedicated the third part of his trilogy \"ROAI III\" for piano and electronics to the modular methodology.\nThe composer Andy DiGelsomina has featured variations on the modular approach in his recent \"Lyraka Symphony no. 1\", which he elaborates on (with musical examples) in his personal blog. \n\nModularity can be applied to every language of art in many different ways.\n\nMarcel Duchamp's intervention on Leonardo’s Monna Lisa: the moustache is, in all ways, a modular effect.\nGreek-born conceptual artist Leda Luss Luyken, who was initially trained as an architect, has been exploring ModulArt in the medium of painting since the 1990s. In her work standardized canvas panels are mounted as modules onto a steel frame within which they can be moved and rotated.\nAmerican artist Mitzi Cunliffe developed sculptures consisting of multiple blocks about twelve inches square which she put together in a variety of combinations to give a sculptured effect on a large scale.\nAnother portfolio of interactive modular art comes out of Studio for A.R.T. and Architecture, a New York-based firm headed by Donald Rattner. Rattner has designed modular art in the media of wall sculpture, rotational paintings, tapestries, artist's wallpapers and artist's books.\nThe Gruppo 1, made up of Biggi, Frascà, Pace, Santoro, Uncini and Carrino, in the 1960s elaborated a conception of sculpture being a collective project with works developed by assembling basic elements—modules, in the true sense of the word—which could be modified in any moment, sometimes with the intervention of the public.\nThe term \"modular\" applied to visual arts was first mentioned in 1975 in a German arts encyclopedia as \"a form of art […] made by movable elements that […] transfer the object into a new state of being by moving their variable parts\"\n\n\"SalmodieSubliminali\" (Campanotto Editions, Udine, 2007) is a book of modular poems in which Stefano Vagnini connects words so that new meanings comes out from the sentence. Every line can be extended with new words, always connected.\n\nWhen different languages coexist, multimediality becomes a natural opening for the modular work. The artist's desire to experiment is combined with the necessity to adapt to codes and communicative languages in constant evolution. Using at the same time different languages is not just the research of innovative aesthetic solutions, superficial strategy used to capture who enjoys with distraction; multimediality becomes, by modular art, a natural answer to the artist that wants to join the project.\nIn Modular Music, the term \"polimediality\" is preferred, because a multimedia work is usually already conceived as a multi-art language work. In a modular project, the opportunity to add modules using different languages depends on the artist who decides to join the work.\n\nIn a modular project, many different cultures can coexist in the project without having to use a hybrid language. Coexistence so that people can enjoy the taste of the combination of different cultural expressions and traditions.\nModular art must be considered an alternative to that phenomenon called contamination.\n\n\n\nStefano Vagnini's 2002 modular oratorio depicting the fourteen Stations of the Cross, \"Via Crucis\", composition for organ, computer, choir, string orchestra and brass quartet. \"Via Crucis\" represents Stefano Vagnini’s first intuition of the process of aggregations and the demonstration of the potential of the method. It is an oratorio made by \"continuous modules\" composed by the same musician in different moments.\nBeing the original module, it may be presented to the public solo, for a total length of 50 minutes.\nThe text is in latin from the Vulgata.\nEven the internal module D structure is modular: the soprano part can be performed without the choir. The choir parts in the stations no. 3, 7 and 9 are overlapped in the 12th.\n\nZoo is a modular project made by independent modules created by worldwide composers over eight piano works by Stefano Vagnini. A typical characteristic of the project's performances is the lack of a stage and seating arrangements for the audience, who walk freely through the performance space (e.g. a garden, square, or shopping mall), while the musicians are stationed throughout the space and acoustically isolated such that their individual performances cannot all be heard at once. This means each audience member's experience of the performance is unique, depending on the path they take through the space and the precise moments they happen to be in proximity to each individual musician.\nThe Zoo world modular project currently comprises the following composers: Martin Vitous (Czech Rep.), George Christophy (Cypro), Anthony Green (U.S.A), Johannes Holik (Austria), Erik Schwartz (U.S.A), Heinz Chur (Germany), Philip Wilcher (Australia), Ichinose Kyo (Japan), Julian Yu (China), John Sharply (Singapore), Slava Vinokur (Israel), Paul Gordon Manners (England), Giorgia Ragni (Italy).\nThe Zoo project has been performed since 2000:\n\nThe FaceBach project, organized by Strathclyde University Choir Director Alan Tavener, was performed on 15 June 2012, at the Barony Hall Glasgow as closing workshop on Modular Music featuring the Strathclyde Barony Hall organ students and AiDADUO (Stefano Vagnini and Giorgia Ragni).\nSome J. S. Bach organ music selection has been combined with contemporary music by Karlheinz Stockhausen, Tan Dun, Cathy Berberian, John Cage, Stefano Vagnini and Omega Zero.\n\nSono Ergo Sum is the first modular music festival. The first edition took place in Fano (Italy) on 17, 18 and 19 July 2014, at the San Domenico pinacoteque.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "229967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229967", "title": "New Flemish Alliance", "text": "New Flemish Alliance\n\nThe New Flemish Alliance (, N-VA) is a Flemish nationalist and conservative political party in Belgium, founded in 2001. The N-VA is a regionalist and separatist movement that self-identifies with the promotion of civic nationalism. It is part of the Flemish Movement, and strives for the peaceful and gradual secession of Flanders from Belgium. In recent years it has become the largest party of Flanders as well as of Belgium as a whole, and leads the 2014–19 Flemish Government.\n\nFollowing the 2014 elections, the New Flemish Alliance is the largest Belgian/Flemish political party in the European Parliament, with its four MEPs sitting with the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) parliamentary group.\n\nThe party is also known for its insistence on the exclusive use of Dutch, Flanders' sole official language, in dealings with government agencies, and for the promotion of the use of Dutch in Flanders as the language enabling integration. The main objective of the party is to work on Flemish independence by gradually obtaining more powers for both Belgian communities separately. Furthermore, it emphasizes its non-revolutionary and pro-European character (as opposed to the far-right and Eurosceptic character of the Vlaams Belang) in order to legitimize increased Flemish autonomy.\nThe N-VA advocates free-market economics, and their manifesto proposes immediate tax reductions to stimulate the economy. They also advocate deepening ties with the European Union.\n\nThe N-VA stems from the People's Union (, VU), a Belgian political party and broad electoral alliance of Flemish nationalists. Towards the end of the 20th century, with a steadily declining electorate and the majority of the party's federalist agenda implemented, friction between several wings of the People's Union emerged. In the beginning of the 1990s, Bert Anciaux became party president and led the party in an ever more progressive direction, combining the social-liberal ideas of his new iD21-movement with the regionalist course of the People's Union. These experiments were opposed by the more traditional centre-right party base.\n\nTension rose towards the end of the decade, as Geert Bourgeois, foreman of the traditional and centre-right nationalist wing, was elected chairman by party members, in preference to the incumbent and progressive Patrik Vankrunkelsven. Factions subsequently clashed multiple times, over the future course of the party and possible support for current . On 13 October 2001 the party openly split into three factions: the progressive wing around Bert Anciaux, which would later become the Spirit party; the conservative nationalist wing around Geert Bourgeois; and a centrist group opposing the imminent split. A party referendum was held on the future of the party. The right wing gained a substantial plurality of 47% and inherited the party infrastructure. Since no faction got an absolute majority, however, the name \"Volksunie\" could no longer be used.\n\nIn the autumn of 2001, the New Flemish Alliance (, N-VA) was founded. Seven members of parliament from the People's Union joined the new party. The new party council created a party manifesto and a statement of principles. The first party congress was held in May 2002, voting on a party program and permanent party structures. Geert Bourgeois was elected chairman.\n\nThe party participated in elections for the first time in the 2003 federal elections, but struggled with the election threshold of 5%. This threshold was only reached in West Flanders, the constituency of Geert Bourgeois. With only one federal representative and no senator, the party lost government funding and faced irrelevance.\n\nIn February 2004, the N-VA entered into an electoral alliance, commonly known in Belgium as a cartel, with the Christian Democratic and Flemish (CD&V) party, the traditionally largest party, which was then in opposition. They joined forces in the regional elections in 2004 and won. Both parties joined the new Flemish government, led by CD&V leader Yves Leterme. Geert Bourgeois became a minister, and Bart De Wever became the new party leader in October 2004.\n\nThe cartel was briefly broken when the former right-wing liberal Jean-Marie Dedecker left the Open Flemish Liberals and Democrats (Open VLD) and entered the N-VA on behalf of the party executive. However, the party congress did not put Dedecker on the election list, instead preferring to continue the cartel with CD&V, who had strongly opposed placing him on a joint cartel list. Dedecker saw this as a vote of no confidence, and left the party after only 10 days, to form his own party, List Dedecker (LDD). Deputy leader Brepoels, who supported Dedecker, stepped down from the party board afterwards.\n\nIn the Belgian federal election of 2007 the CD&V/N-VA cartel won a major victory again, with a campaign focusing on good governance, state reform and the division of the electoral district Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. The N-VA won five seats in the Chamber of Representatives and two seats in the Senate. Yves Leterme initiated coalition talks, which repeatedly stalled (see 2007–2008 Belgian government formation). On 20 March 2008, a new federal government was finally assembled. N-VA did not join this government, but gave its support pending state reform.\n\nThe cartel ended definitively on 24 September 2008, due to lack of progression in state reform matters and a different strategy on future negotiations. N-VA left the Flemish Government and gave up its support of Leterme at the federal level.\n\nIn the regional elections of June 2009, N-VA won an unexpected 13% of the votes, making them the winner of the elections, along with their old cartel partner CD&V. N-VA subsequently joined the government, led by Kris Peeters (CD&V). Bart De Wever chose to remain party leader and appointed Geert Bourgeois and Philippe Muyters as ministers in the Flemish Government and Jan Peumans as speaker of the Flemish Parliament.\n\nThe New Flemish Alliance is a relatively young political party, founded in the autumn of 2001. Being one of the successors of the Volksunie (1954–2001), it is, however, based on an established political tradition. The N-VA works towards the same goal as its predecessor: to redefine Flemish nationalism in a contemporary, pro-European setting. Party leader De Wever calls himself a conservative and a nationalist.\n\nThe N-VA argues for a Flemish republic, a member state of a democratic European confederation. The party believes that the challenges of the 21st century can best be answered by strong communities and by well-developed international co-operation, a position which is reflected in their tagline: \"Necessary in Flanders, useful in Europe.\" (.)\n\nA label for the political orientation of the N-VA is difficult to find as the party combines both left- and right-wing policies. According to its 2009 election programme for Flanders, the N-VA is economically liberal and ecologically green. The N-VA supports public transport, open source software, renewable energy and taxing cars by the number of kilometres driven. It wants more aid for developing countries and more compulsory measures to require that immigrants learn Dutch.\n\nAt European level, the N-VA is part of the European Free Alliance (EFA), a European political party consisting of regionalist, pro-independence and minority interest political parties, of which the People's Union was a founder member. During the 7th European Parliament of 2009–2014, the N-VA was a member of The Greens–European Free Alliance (Greens/EFA) group in the European Parliament. However, following the 2014 European elections, the N-VA moved to the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) group.\n\nIn the federal elections in 2003 N-VA received 3.1% of the votes, but won only one seat in the federal parliament. In February 2004 they formed an electoral alliance (cartel) with the Christian Democratic and Flemish party (CD&V). The cartel won the elections for the Flemish Parliament. The N-VA received a total of 6 seats. However, on 21 September 2008 the N-VA lost its faith in the federal government and the following day minister Geert Bourgeois resigned. In a press conference he confirmed the end of the CD&V/N-VA cartel.\n\nIn the 2004 European elections, N-VA had 1 MEP elected as part of the cartel with CD&V.\n\nIn the 10 June 2007 federal elections, the cartel won 30 out of 150 seats in the Chamber of Representatives and 9 out of 40 seats in the Senate.\n\nIn the regional elections of 11 June 2009, N-VA (now on its own after the split of the cartel with CD&V) won an unexpected 13% of the votes, making them the winner of the elections along with their former cartel partner. In the 2009 European elections held on the same day, the N-VA had one MEP elected.\n\nIn the 2010 federal elections, N-VA became the largest party of Flanders and of Belgium altogether.\n\nIn the 2014 federal elections, N-VA increased their dominant position, taking votes and seats from the far-right Flemish Interest. In the simultaneous 2014 regional elections and 2014 European elections, the N-VA also became the largest party in the Flemish Parliament and in the Belgian delegation to the European Parliament.\n\nN-VA holds four seats in the eighth European Parliament (2014–2019) for the Dutch-speaking electoral college.\n\n"}
{"id": "37295577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37295577", "title": "OOAK", "text": "OOAK\n\nThe abbreviation OOAK stands for the expression, \"one of a kind.\" The term originates in yachting in 1949 to describe a regatta race in which ship builders were allowed to enter as many different models of yachts into the regatta as they manufactured, but no more than one of each model (hence, \"one of a kind\"). \n\nSince then the term has found different and expanded use as an Internet acronym, especially with regard to the sale of handmade merchandise which is \"one of a kind\" with respect to actual production rather than to allowed number of entries in a competition. The term has widespread use in the cottage industry of doll making, but is used in any manufacturing sector in which the one-of-a-kind nature of a product signifies its value/importance.\n\n"}
{"id": "52588071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52588071", "title": "OVC project", "text": "OVC project\n\nThe OVC project (\"Orphans and Vulnerable Children\") is an initiative of the \"Adigrat Diocesan Catholic Secretariat\" (ADCS) of the \"Ethiopian Catholic Eparchy of Adigrat\". The project supports young people with micro-scholarships for obtaining a university entrance qualification and at least one bachelor's degree in their own country. It is based in Adigrat, Tigray region, Ethiopia. One of the sponsored students was the AIDS orphan Rahel Hailay, who completed the study of biology and zoology at the universities in Axum and Mek'ele from 2009 to 2014. It is largely funded by donations collected by the Student Initiative Rahel in Germany.\n\nSince 2010 additional finance aid is collected in Germany by the \"Student Initiative Rahel\" (SIR) to increase the possible number of scholarships given by the OVC project. The Student Initiative Rahel is a student project of the \"Institute for World Church and Mission\" (IWM) (German: \"Institut für Weltkirche und Mission\") which is a part of the Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology in Frankfurt-Sachsenhausen. The project is funded mainly by current and former students at the university.\nDue to personnel fluctuation among students at the Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology, the project has been phasing out slowly since the end of 2017. The tasks of the support are gradually taken over by the \"Adigrat Diocesan Catholic Secretariat\" (ADCS) and former graduates in Ethiopia.\n\nBoth projects are connected through the support of the \"Pontifical Mission Societies\" (German: \"missio\") in all financial matters, such as account management, the administrative costs or the transfer of money to Ethiopia. In Ethiopia the \"Student Initiative Rahel\" is supervised locally by the \"Adigrat Diocesan Catholic Secretariat\" (ADCS) of the \"Ethiopian Catholic Eparchy of Adigrat\" under the patronage of the diocesan bishop Tesfay Medhin within the framework of the \"OVC project\" (\"Orphans and Vulnerable Children\"). The \"OVC project\" is active in the areas of Adigrat and other areas particularly affected by poverty. The project manager of the ADCS Woldemariam Besirat selects the scholarship holders. The nonprofit organization supports in a scholarship youths – mostly young women – in Adigrat in the north of Ethiopia, who are disadvantaged for various reasons, and accompanies them financially and ideally during their studies at a university or their education. It is largely funded by donations. and organizes religious education workshops on scholarship meetings with their own and external lecturers on topics such as AIDS, the consequences of emigration as refugees or on other medical or ethical issues. In addition to financial support, the promotion of self-reliance, self-confidence and self-esteem, the promotion of self-responsibility, the awareness of responsibility and the ability to work together are important aspects of the work of the OVC project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30794782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30794782", "title": "Porch sitting", "text": "Porch sitting\n\nPorch sitting, i.e., sitting on a front porch or stoop, usually of a private residence is a leisure activity which can be a direct or indirect form of social interaction. This activity is a staple of most urban areas in the United States, and helps contribute to a lively atmosphere, for those sitting and also those passing by. This activity is most common during good weather, especially on warm summer nights and weekends.\n\nPorch sitting was once considered to be a status symbol.\n\nAs well as being a good way to connect with neighbors, it also is an important form of community security, helping to prevent crime. Front porches were originally mandated in the planned community of Seaside, Florida, as a way to reduce air conditioning usage. Its planners then perceived an enhanced sense of community and front porches subsequently became an important element in the New Urbanism movement. During the summer of 2006, \"All Things Considered\" broadcast a series of stories dedicated to the role of the front porch in American life and literature.\n\nThere are now thousands of (tongue-in-cheek) Professional Porch Sitters Unions in all fifty states of the U.S. and at least three other countries.\n\nSome see a potential downside of sitting on porches: the intrusiveness of porch-based surveillance.\n\nIt was formerly cooler out on the porch than it was inside the house, on hot summer days. Air conditioning has thus replaced porch sitting, people able to socialize in the comfort of their homes, although porch sitting is still common in areas where the climate is nice.\n\nOther causes of a decline of porch sitting are television, which provides other entertaining sights, and the motor car, which made street views more noisy and unpleasant.\n\n\"Porch-sitters\" form a recognized group in marketing\nand in literature.\n\nHenry Church, an aged ex-British soldier from the American Revolutionary War, was noted for his porch sitting in sight of the train station. The town of Hundred, West Virginia, was then named after him, as he was called \"Old Hundred.\"\n\n\"The Don Knotts Show\" had a regular feature, \"The Front Porch\", in which the host and his guest would sit in rocking chairs in a porch and talk philosophically. When Knotts played Barney Fife on \"The Andy Griffith Show\", porch sitting was often incorporated into the sitcom's script. Another television series which featured Southern porch sitting, albeit in a more rural setting, was the family drama \"The Waltons\".\n\nThe ethnic slur \"porch monkey\" is an insinuation that African Americans spend excessive amount of time porch sitting.\n\nIn the film \"Friday\", the main characters spend most of their day porch sitting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9198066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9198066", "title": "Role conflict", "text": "Role conflict\n\nRole conflict occurs when there are incompatible demands placed upon a person such that compliance with both would be difficult. Persons experience role conflict when they find themselves pulled in various directions as they try to respond to the many statuses they hold. Role conflict can be something that can be for either a short period of time, or a long period of time, and it can also be connected to situational experiences.\n\nIntra-role conflict occurs when the demands are within a single domain of life, such as on the job. An example would be when two superiors ask an employee to do a task, and both cannot be accomplished at the same time. Inter-role conflict occurs across domains of life. An example of inter-role conflict would be a husband and father who is also Chief of Police. If a tornado strikes the small town he is living in, the man has to decide if he should go home and be with his family and fulfill the role of being a good husband and father or remain and fulfill the duties of a \"good\" Chief of Police because the whole town needs his expertise.\"\n\nConflict among the roles begins because of the human desire to reach success, and because of the pressure put on an individual by two imposing and incompatible demands competing against each other. The effects of role conflict, as found through case-studies and nationwide surveys, are related to individual personality characteristics and interpersonal relations. Individual personality characteristic conflicts can arise within personality role conflict where \"aspects of an individual's personality are in conflict with other aspects of that same individual's personality\". Interpersonal relations can cause conflict because they are by definition \"having an association between two or more people that may range from fleeting to enduring, which can cause that conflict.\"\n\nExample: \"People in modern, high-income countries juggle many responsibilities demanded by their various statuses and roles. As most mothers can testify both parenting and working outside the home are physically and emotionally draining. Sociologists thus recognize role conflict as conflict among the roles corresponding to two or more statuses\".\n\nThe discipline of group dynamics in psychology recognizes role conflict within a group setting. Members of a group may feel that they are responsible for more than one role within this setting and that these roles may become disagreeable with each other. When the expectations of two or more roles are incompatible, role conflict exists. For example, a supervisor at a factory may feel strain due to his or her role as friend and mentor to the subordinate employees, while having to exhibit a stern and professional watchful eye over the employees.\n\nA commonly noted role conflict is that between work and family. Researchers have noticed a declining fertility rate in developed countries. Some studies suggest that this drop may be because more women are pursuing careers and obtaining educations. The research is trying to show that women who have more trouble balancing their work life and family duties go on to have fewer additional children. \nWhile some people believe that work–family role conflict only occurs for women, a 2008 study by the Families and Work Institute showed that 49% of employed males with families experienced work–family conflict. The study also showed that work flexibility is the number one concern for employed females with families and the number two or three issue for employed men with families. Flexibility in the workplace can be a huge relief to a person struggling to balance their career and home-life. Having that control is something that could change the relationship between work and family life to better be able to manage role conflict, and if more business participated in this action there could be a possible better outcome for all. Another study was done in France where the same common conflict of work and family life roles were interfering to an extreme. This study found that not even working from home was the solution, but to be able to come in late or leave early, on a flexible schedule is what was working best to be able to handle the role conflict. Having this sort of flex schedule enables people to be able to work with their role conflicts and try to better be able to manage and cope with them. Again this study supports that if businesses do create this sort of flex schedule that this could be a definite possible solution.\n\nRole conflict requirements for different roles might compete for a person's limited time, or could occur due to various strains associated with multiple roles. Some people can play one role and play it well while others can play multiple roles and also play them well. For example, we see a father as the provider and the protector while we see the women as the housewives, cooking and cleaning. If a man were to enter into the kitchen and proceed to cook, we might feel that he is acting inappropriately for his role and the same goes as if a woman was to do handy work in the household. This attitude is a root cause for the conflict many women feel when they become full-time workers and mothers. Women's rights have evolved greatly in the past forty years and women share most of the same rights as men. While women have stepped up to fill different roles, men have not stepped in to help balance out the work load. Modern day mothers are expected to be able have the career capacity of a man and the domestic grace modeled after the ideal mother/wife of the 1950s. Realistically, women have a hard time balancing the two. Many women feel that they are forced to choose between career and family, then are made to feel guilty about their choice by society.\n\nWhen one has multiple role responsibilities, duties or demands from education, job or family relationships, it can be hard to manage. Additionally, the responsibilities are manageable while other times it can be hard to manage especially when one is living in a low income household.\n\nHomelessness is a situation that takes a heavy toll on anyone, especially men with children or dependents. Traditional gender roles describe men as being the providers. Homeless men are often unemployed thus lack the means to provide the resources that their family needs. This can cause high levels of distress in men. Homeless men may also become the sole caregiver of their children during homelessness. This can lead to high stress levels in men because they are expected to take on the role of both provider and nurturer. The transition can be very overwhelming.\n\nPrisons are filled predominantly with male inmates. This may be due to the dominant construction of masculinity, which inclines males to criminality and violence. Dominant masculinity is symbolized by control, independence, heterosexuality, aggressiveness, authority, and a capacity for violence in American culture. When a male finds themselves lacking in one of these areas they may be driven to make up for it in another area; such as when a poor, jobless young man tries to show masculinity by carrying a gun or wearing gang related clothing. When one is in prison, many of the resources use to assert masculinity are not readily available, thus men seek other ways to proclaim their masculinity. Many inmates find in imperative to put on a mask of hyper-masculinity, which may conflict with their normal personality, in order to maintain their status within the prison. This expectation to maintain a certain idea of masculinity \"contradict[s] basic human needs and desires for intimacy and emotional expression, creating stress and conflict between men's core selves and social expectations.\"\n\nRole conflict is seen not only in the inmates of the prison, but also the prison personnel. There are two types of prisons: custody prisons and treatment prisons. The main goal of a custody prison is to protect the community by maintaining control over the inmates. The correctional officers are expected to maintain order, enforce rules, and keep custody. A key rule to their job is that interaction between inmates and officers is to remain distant. The main goal of a treatment prison is to protect the community by rehabilitating the inmate. The Officers are expected to respond to inmates in a therapeutic manner and develop ties with the inmates. Currently prisons are combining the two types of custody and the staff is experiencing role conflict. Officers are being asked to do conflicting jobs such as remain socially distant while also building close, supportive relationships with inmates. This emphasis on the combination of custody and treatment often results in two distinguished, mutually antagonistic groups of staff.\n\nOne of the main causes of role conflict is role ambiguity, which is the lack of certainty in what a certain role in an organization requires. This can be the result or poor communication of job duties or unclear instructions from a supervisor. This can lead to role conflict when there are contradicting ideas as to what tasks are supposed to be accomplished. Team members can then be uncertain of their role and their teammate’s roles to the team and team objectives begin to conflict with one another.\n\nThe solution to this problem and role conflict as a whole can come from role clarity. As its name suggests, role clarity is clearly defining roles and objectives so as to reduce role conflict and role ambiguity. To do this, employers need to clearly communicate with employees as to the goals of a project. Also, employees should be fully aware of their role in the group and their responsibilities. It is helpful if one develops and maintains a working environment where workers have communication and if needed, feedback can be provided. Encouragement is another form of clarity. If one has a question or is not clear about a specific role that has been given to them, workers can communicate. Make sure the person understands their roles and duties to avoid any mistakes that can occur, and ensure that workers have an up-to-date role so they can manage their roles accordingly.\n\nWorking with groups – especially in a work or committee setting – can sometimes result in role conflict if an individual feels that his or her roles are in opposition. These roles may be in conflict for many reasons. For example, the role taker may misunderstand the role sender's prescribed tasks or the miscommunication can occur the other way, as well. If a role taker is seemingly enthusiastic about taking on many tasks within various roles, this may be communicated to the role sender and he or she may be given conflicting role requirements. Role conflict can pair with role ambiguity – a situation in which the expectations of a role are ill-defined – to create role stress, which is detrimental to workplace performance. Role stress has also been linked to decreased job satisfaction and employee turnover.\n\nTo avoid role conflict within a work place, managers should outline specifically the duties required by an employee to avoid any miscommunication or confusion. Feedback should also be provided to employees, as this explicitly illustrates if the role-taker is properly performing the role requirements and can assist the role-taker if there are any concerns. Steps should be taken to avoid the crossover of potentially conflicting roles and if two or more roles are required of an employee, these roles should be separated by time and place if possible.\n\nRole conflict can have many different effects on the work-life of an individual as well as their family-life. In a study in Taiwan, it was found that those suffering from role conflict also suffered greatly in their work performance, mainly in the form of lack of motivation. Those with role conflict did not do more than the bare minimum requirements at work. There was also a decline in the ability to assign tasks. Having multiple roles will often lead to job dissatisfaction. \n\nExperiencing role conflict within the work place may also lead to workplace bullying. When companies undergo organizational change workers often experience either a loss or a gain in areas of a workers job, thus changing the expectations of the worker. Change is often very stressful for workers. Workers who might have lost a degree of power may feel like they lost their authority and begin to lash out at other employees by being verbally abusive, purposefully withholding work related items, or sometimes even physically to withhold their status.\n\nInterpersonal role conflict occurs when the source of the dilemma stems from occupancy of more than one focal position. For example, as a husband and a father in a social system a superintendent may think his wife and children expect him to spend most of his evenings with them. However, his school board and P.T.A. groups, he may feel, expect him (as their school superintendent) to spend most of his after-office hours on educational and civic activities. The superintendent usually cannot satisfy both of these incompatible expectations.\n\nIntra-personal role conflict occurs when an individual in one role believes that others have many different expectations for him/her in regards to that role. \"The school superintendent, for example, may feel that the teachers expect him to be their spokesperson and leader, to take their side on such matters as salary increases and institutional policy. However, the superintendent may feel that the school board members expect him to represent them, to \"sell\" their views to the staff because he is the executive officer and the administrator of school board policies\".\n\n\"Inter-role conflict results from competing sets of expectations that are aroused by organizational, interpersonal, and personal conflicts\" The following strategies assist in modifying and managing these areas.\n\nOne response to role conflict is deciding that something has to go. More than one politician, for example, has decided not to run for office because of the conflicting demands of a hectic campaign schedule and family life. In other cases, people put off having children in order to stay on the fast track for career success.\nEven the roles linked to a single status can make competing demands on us. A plant supervisor may enjoy being friendly with workers. At the same time, distance is necessary to evaluate his staff.\n\nAn individual can alter external, structurally imposed expectations held by others, regarding the appropriate behavior of a person in his or her position. The most effective alteration is change in the workplace. If the job is a \"family-friendly\" environment, the needs of a parent may be met easier. One of the biggest stress-relievers for working parents is paid time off including family sick days. A parent may feel trapped if he or she needs to stay home with their child but knows that missing a day of work will, in return, dock them a day of pay. If they have a few days of paid leave they will be able to take care of their child and not have to worry about losing money for doing so. \nAnother workplace support of work-family conflict is child-care. Some jobs have a daycare facility on site or nearby, assisting parents in knowing their children are well taken care of while they are working. The latter example distributes role expectations to others in order to alleviate role conflict.\n\n\"Another approach involves changing one's attitude toward and perceptions of one's role expectations, as opposed to changing the expectations themselves. An example is setting priorities among and within roles, being sure that certain demands are always met (for example, the needs of sick children), while others have lower priority (such as dusting furniture).\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53622966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53622966", "title": "Sacatra", "text": "Sacatra\n\nSacatra was a term used in the French Colony of Saint-Domingue to describe one who was the descendant of one black and one griffe parent. The term is also used to describe one who is 7/8ths black and 1/8th white. It was one of the many terms used in the colony's racial caste system to measure ones black blood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19247159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19247159", "title": "Schueberfouer", "text": "Schueberfouer\n\nThe Schueberfouer is the annual Luxembourg city funfair held on the \"Glacis\" square in the city district of Limpertsberg.\n\nThe 677th edition of the largest amusement park in the wider region beyond national borders will start on 23 August 2017 and ends on 11 September 2017.\n\nTraditionally, the Schueberfouer starts on Wednesday, Thursday or Friday before Saint Bartholomew's day (24 August) and closes on Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday before 12 September in order to last 20 days every year. In 2010, the fair comprised 184 attractions including 27 major rides, 13 children's rides and 54 restaurants and snacks bars. In 2007, the fair attracted over 2 million visitors.\n\nJohn I of Luxembourg, better known as John the Blind, King of Bohemia and Count of Luxembourg, founded the Schueberfouer on 20 October 1340.\n\nThe founding document stated: It will begin on the eve of the feast of St Bartholomew and will last for a full eight days.\n\nEven today, it remains linked to St Bartholomew's day, 24 August, the traditional opening date.\nThe name \"Schueberfouer\" is thought to originate probably from the name of the market place where it was first held: the \"Schuedbuerg\", today's \"Plateau du St Esprit\" (in English: Holy Spirit Plateau; in Luxembourgish: Helleggeescht-Plateau), which serves nowadays as residential location for the highest courts of justice of Luxembourg. \n\nAnother unconfirmed theory links the term \"Schueber\" to the old German word \"Schober\" (in English: barn), which would refer to the initial agricultural role of the fair. Indeed, for almost 450 years, the fair was mainly a large and regionally very important market for everything from agricultural products and livestock to cloth, pottery and other household items.\n\nAfter the Limpertsberg wood had been removed to improve the defensive capabilities of the city, the fair moved in 1610 to the Glacis, a huge open space beyond the westward fortifications of Luxembourg City which were destroyed after 1867 and replaced by the City Park.\n\nDuring the 18th century, shows and games became part of the fair but it was not until the early 20th century that a Ferris wheel and a rollercoaster first appeared.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48115597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48115597", "title": "Scientific plagiarism in Germany", "text": "Scientific plagiarism in Germany\n\nScientific plagiarism in Germany became widely discussed when Ph.D. dissertations of notable candidates, including several cabinet members, were scrutinized and found to contain plagiates.\n\n"}
{"id": "41209632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41209632", "title": "Slaka (fiction)", "text": "Slaka (fiction)\n\nSlaka is the imaginary East European COMECON country featured in two books of the English novelist Malcolm Bradbury (1932–2000), \"Rates of Exchange\" (1983) and \"Why Come to Slaka?\" (1986). It is described by its leader Comrade-General I. Vulcani as \"a nation proud of its socialistik emulations.\" The first novel relates the misadventures of a visiting British academic, the second is a pastiche guide book to the country. Slaka is also the name of the country's capital; another of the country's major towns is Glit. The country's language is known as Slakan. The country's national opera is \"Vedontakal Vrop\", by the composer Z. Leblat.\n\nSlaka was further explored in television, in two mini-series scripted by Bradbury, \"The Gravy Train\", and a sequel \"The Gravy Train Goes East\".\n\nCritics have proposed Slaka to be a satire of Romania during the 1980s, or possibly Bulgaria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38849281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38849281", "title": "Strapless dress", "text": "Strapless dress\n\nA strapless dress or top is a garment that stays put around the upper body without shoulder straps or other visible means of support. It is usually supported by an internal corset and/or brassiere, with the tightness of the bodice preventing the dress from slipping out of position.\n\nAccording to Richard Martin and Harold Koda, the modern strapless dress first appeared in the 1930s, where it was popularised by designers such as Mainbocher, and, from the late 1940s, Christian Dior. The July 18, 1938, issue of \"Life\" claimed that the \"absolutely strapless, sleeveless evening dress\" was a 1937–38 invention. However, that was predated in 1930 by the actress Libby Holman, who had been photographed in an apparently strapless dress that year. Holman became associated with the strapless dress and is regularly credited with inventing it, or at least being one of its first high-profile wearers.\n\nIn 1934, Mainbocher produced his first strapless gown, a black satin design which has been described as the first strapless evening dress. Along with Holman and Mainbocher, the heiress Brenda Frazier is also credited with popularising the style when she wore a strapless débutante dress for her debut and famously appeared in it on the November 14, 1938, cover of \"Life\".\nStrapless dresses remained popular after the Second World War, with the style sometimes being described as the \"naked look\". One of the most famous strapless dresses of this period was the black satin gown worn by Rita Hayworth for a song and dance routine in \"Gilda\". Hayworth's performance demonstrated to viewers that strapless dresses could be secure enough to move around and dance in without risk of indecent exposure. Despite this, more conservative customers might add shoulder straps to their new strapless dresses. The style was also problematic for those who objected to its perceived immodesty. During the 1940s and 1950s, Catholic campaigners in the United States protested against \"immodest\" clothing, including two-piece and strapless swimsuits and dresses. In 1954, the United States Army tried to ban Army wives and daughters in Germany from wearing shorts, jeans, and strapless dresses, \"except at appropriate social functions.\"\n\nDuring the 1950s, notable strapless dress designers included Madame Grès, whose flowing Grecian dresses were mounted upon custom-designed interior corsets by Alice Cadolle.\n\nIn the 1970s, Halston designed an unstructured strapless dress. The knitted tube top was worn as a casual strapless option, and by the 1980s, strapless dresses were made in stretchy, elastic fabrics which did not require boning or interior structure.\n\nIn 2012, the strapless dress was described as the most widely requested style for Western wedding dresses. Vera Wang is sometimes credited with introducing this style of bridal dress in the first decade of the 21st century, although strapless dresses were an increasingly valid option from the 1990s onwards with the growing popularity of formal civil weddings from the 1990s. However, for religious weddings, strapless and shoulder-baring styles are potentially controversial, and despite the popularity of the strapless wedding dress it is considered by some to be a \"rejection of the virginal ideal\".\n\nThe strapless dress is also a very popular style for red carpet fashion.\n\nSince their introduction, strapless garments have proved problematic in many contexts. In the early 21st century, many schools and workplaces specifically forbid strapless garments as part of their dress code. An Adecco survey published in \"The Wall Street Journal\" in 2012 indicated that 72% of Americans thought strapless tops were inappropriate office wear.\n\nStrapless garments may be singled out for particular censure by preachers and clerics. In 2005, a Muslim cleric declared strapless garments \"satanic\", along with other revealing garments such as miniskirts and see-through clothing. Spencer W. Kimball, the 12th President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS church), declared that strapless gowns were neither righteous nor approved, and that no Latter-day Saint woman should wear one at any time, whilst another Latter-day Saints declared them an \"abomination in the sight of the Lord\". Such views may not necessarily reflect those of the majority of their associated religion, although a rule of thumb is that strapless garments are only acceptable in religious contexts, such as Catholic churches or Jewish bat mitzvahs if the shoulders and arms are covered.\n"}
{"id": "24084491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24084491", "title": "Tembel hat", "text": "Tembel hat\n\nA tembel hat (Hebrew: kova tembel, כובע טמבל) is a hat which is an Israeli national symbol. The tembel hat was commonly worn by Jews in Israel from the beginning of the 20th century until the 1970s. In Israeli cartoons it is still used to symbolize the typical Israeli (e.g., the cartoon character Srulik). \nIn Hebrew slang, tembel means silly, or fool. It is not known whether the slang term was named after the hat or the hat after the slang term. There is a theory that the tembel hat was originally the heavy-duty hat of the Templers Christian movement that was active in Palestine at the end of the 19th century and in the beginning of the 20th century. By this theory the hat's first name was \"Templers' hat,\" but it was changed to \"tembel hat\" by the Arabs who could not pronounce the P and the correct vowels.\nHowever, it is more likely that the name \"tembel hat\" derives from the Turkish or Ottoman word \"tembel\" which means lazy.\nThe Tembel's shape is the same as the pileus, the hat adopted by freed slaves in Greek and Roman antiquity and adopted as a symbol of freedom at the time of the French Revolution. The ancient pileus survived in Albania in the early 20th century and may have influenced the leaders of the 2nd Aliyah who adopted the hat.\n\n"}
{"id": "27404794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27404794", "title": "The Interpreter (Kim novel)", "text": "The Interpreter (Kim novel)\n\nThe Interpreter (2003) is Suki Kim’s first novel. In \"The Interpreter\", Kim creates a twenty-nine-year-old Korean American court interpreter named Suzy Park who makes a startling and ominous discovery during one court case which ultimately reveals the mystery of her parents' homicide. The award winning novel, mainly a murder mystery, breaks through the stereotypical images of the happy immigrant experience with a story of pain, loss, and murder.\n\nSuzy Park is a young, attractive, and achingly alone Korean American woman who works as a court interpreter for the New York City court system. She has had two rocky relationships with married men, worked a series of unsatisfying jobs, and cut ties with her family before her parents were shot dead in an unsolved double murder. The life she has chosen as an interpreter is a reflection of Suzy's searching for her own identity and trying to bridge the two cultures to both of which she feels a detachment. During one court case she discovers that her parents were not murdered by random violence, as the police had indicated, but instead had been shot by political enemies. The discovery provides the glint of a new lead for Park, and the novel tracks her investigation into what really happened, which ultimately reveals the mystery of her parents' homicide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6284228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6284228", "title": "United Tribes of New Zealand", "text": "United Tribes of New Zealand\n\nThe United Tribes of New Zealand () was a confederation of Māori tribes based in the north of the North Island. \n\nThe confederation was convened in 1834 by British Resident James Busby. Busby had been sent to New Zealand in 1833 by the Colonial Office to serve as the official British Resident, and was anxious to set up a framework for trade between Māori and Europeans. The Māori chiefs of the northern part of the North Island agreed to meet with him in March 1834. Rumours began spreading that the Frenchman Baron Charles de Thierry planned to set up an independent state at Hokianga. The United Tribes declared their independence on 28 October 1835 with the signing of the Declaration of Independence. In 1836, the British Crown under King William IV recognized the United Tribes and its flag. Busby's efforts were entirely too successful: as the islands settled down, the British began to consider an outright annexation.\n\nBy 1839, the Declaration of the United Tribes had 52 signatories from Northland and a few signatories from other parts, notably from the ariki of the Waikato Tainui, Pōtatau Te Wherowhero. In February 1840, a number of chiefs of the United Tribes convened at Waitangi to sign the Treaty of Waitangi. During the Musket Wars (18071842), Ngāpuhi and other tribes raided and occupied many parts of the North Island, but eventually reverted to their previous territorial status as other tribes acquired European weapons.\n\nFrom a New Zealand standpoint under the settler government, the Confederation has been considered to have been assimilated into a new entity after the signing of the Treaty of Waitangi; the Declaration is viewed in large part as merely a historical document. In recent times, questions have arisen regarding the constitutional relevance of the Declaration.\n\nAs of October 2010, the Waitangi Tribunal began investigating the claim by Ngāpuhi that their sovereignty was not ceded in their signing of the Treaty of Waitangi. The Tribunal, in \"Te Paparahi o te Raki\" inquiry (Wai 1040) is in the process of considering the Māori and Crown understandings of He Whakaputanga o te Rangatiratanga / The Declaration of Independence 1835 and Te Tiriti o Waitangi / the Treaty of Waitangi 1840. \n\nMany of the arguments being used are outlined in Paul Moon's 2002 book \"Te Ara Ki Te Tiriti: The Path to the Treaty of Waitangi\", which argued that not only did the Maori signatories have no intention of transferring sovereignty, but that at the time the British government and James Busby did not wish to acquire it and that the developments and justifications leading to the present state were later developments. It is estimated that the hearings will last between four and six years, and may serve a serious precedent for all Maori tribal groups if the Tribunal recognizes Ngāpuhi sovereignty. A common Ngāpuhi interpretation of the Declaration of the United Tribes is that the British government was simply recognizing Māori independence and putting the world on check, merely re-asserting sovereignty that had existed from \"time immemorial\"., Update Nov 14, 2014.\nThe idea of a flag to represent New Zealand first arose when the New Zealand-built trading ship \"Sir George Murray\" was seized in Sydney for sailing without a flag or register in 1830. British navigation laws applied in Australia and ruled that every ship must carry an official certificate that included the nationality of the ship. New Zealand was not yet a British colony, so could not sail under a British flag or register. With no flag to represent the islands, trading ships and their cargoes could be confiscated. While a temporary licence was granted for the \"Sir George Murray\" by New South Wales authorities, it was clear that a more permanent solution was needed. Busby was approached by Maori chiefs in 1833 about the matter of a flag. Busby asked Reverend Williams and the Colonial Secretary Richard Bourke in New South Wales for assistance, and, with additional consultation with tribal leaders, three designs were drawn up. \n\nOn 20 March 1834, three designs were put to 25 northern Maori chiefs at Waitangi by James Busby and Captain Lambert of the man-of-war HMS \"Alligator\". By a vote of 12-10-3, the design now widely known as the United Tribes Flag was chosen. British, American, and French representatives witnessed the ceremony, which included a 21-gun salute from the \"Alligator\".\n\nThe flag was based in part on the St George's Cross that was already used by the Church Missionary Society, with a canton featuring a smaller red cross on a blue background fimbriated in black, and with a white eight-pointed star in each quarter of the canton. When officially gazetted in New South Wales in August 1835, the description did not mention the fimbriation or the number of points on the stars. The description was: \"A red St. George's Cross on a white ground. In the first quarter, a red St. George's Cross on a blue ground, pierced with four white stars.\" This version of the flag served as the \"de facto\" national flag of New Zealand from 1835 until the signing of the Treaty of Waitangi in February 1840.\n\nThe version of the flag with black fimbriation and eight-pointed stars is widely used today as a flag by Māori groups throughout New Zealand, who also refer to it as the He Whakaputanga flag. \n\nThe flag features on the medals presented to soldiers who served in the South African War (1899–1902).\n\nIn July 2009 it was proposed as one of four possible designs for an official Māori flag at a series of hui around New Zealand. The flag is also occasionally encountered with black or white fimbriation and six-pointed stars.\n\nAs stated in E.M.C. Barraclough's book \"Flags of the World\" (), The Shaw, Savill & Albion Line used this flag (though with white fimbriation instead of black and a proportions change from 1:2 to 3:5) as its company flag during its existence from 1882 to 1974.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4838461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4838461", "title": "Valencian Sign Language", "text": "Valencian Sign Language\n\nValencian Sign Language ( ), or LSV, is a sign language used by deaf people in the Valencian Community, Spain. It is closely related to Catalan Sign Language (LSC); they are variously described as similar languages or as dialects of a single language. \n\nValencia was the first Spanish autonomous community to support the use of sign language in the Statute of Autonomy, but does not specify which sign language is to be used. The use of LSV in Valencia has, however, diminished and is restricted to administrative communications and occasional usage in the media.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7763396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7763396", "title": "Video games as an art form", "text": "Video games as an art form\n\nThe concept of video games as a form of art is a controversial topic within the entertainment industry. Though video games have been afforded legal protection as creative works by the Supreme Court of the United States, the philosophical proposition that video games are works of art remains in question, even when considering the contribution of expressive elements such as graphics, storytelling and music. Even art games, games purposely designed to be a work of creative expression, have been challenged as works of art by some critics.\n\nThe earliest institutional consideration of the video game as an art form came in the late 1980s when art museums began retrospective displays of then outdated first and second generation games. In exhibitions such as the Museum of the Moving Image's 1989 \"Hot Circuits: A Video Arcade\", video games were showcased as preformed works whose quality as art came from the intent of the curator to display them as art. Further explorations of this theme were set up in the late 1990s and early 2000s with exhibitions like the Walker Art Center's \"Beyond Interface\" (1998), the online \"Cracking the Maze - Game Plug-Ins as Hacker Art\" (1999), the UCI Beall Centre's \"Shift-Ctrl\" (2000), and a number of shows in 2001.\n\nThe concept of the video game as a Duchamp-style readymade or as found object resonated with early developers of the art game. In her 2003 Digital Arts and Culture paper, \"Arcade Classics Span Art? Current Trends in the Art Game Genre\", professor Tiffany Holmes noted that a significant emerging trend within the digital art community was the development of playable video game pieces referencing or paying homage to earlier classic works like \"Breakout\", \"Asteroids\", \"Pac-Man\", and \"Burgertime\". In modifying the code of simplistic early games or by creating art mods for more complex games like \"Quake\", the art game genre emerged from the intersection of commercial games and contemporary digital art.\n\nAt the 2010 Art History of Games conference in Atlanta, Georgia, professor Celia Pearce further noted that alongside Duchamp's art productions, the Fluxus movement of the 1960s, and most immediately the New Games Movement had paved the way for more modern \"art games\". Works such as Lantz' \"Pac Manhattan\", according to Pearce, have become something like performance art pieces. Most recently, a strong overlap has developed between art games and indie games. This meeting of the art game movement and the indie game movement is important according to Professor Pearce, insofar as it brings art games to more eyes and allows for greater potential to explore in indie games.\n\nIn March 2006, the French Minister of Culture first characterized video games as cultural goods and as \"a form of artistic expression,\" granting the industry a tax subsidy and inducting two French game designers (Michel Ancel, Frédérick Raynal) and one Japanese game designer (Shigeru Miyamoto) into the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. In May 2011, the United States National Endowment for the Arts, in accepting grants for art projects for 2012, expanded the allowable projects to include \"interactive games\", furthering the recognition of video games as an art form. Similarly, the United States Supreme Court ruled that video games were protected speech like other forms of art in the June 2011 decision for \"Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association\". In Germany, prior to August 2018, the Unterhaltungssoftware Selbstkontrolle (USK) software ratings body enforced \"Strafgesetzbuch\" (German code) section 86a as outlined by the German government, which banned the sale of games that contained imagery of extremist groups such as Nazis; while Section 86a allowed for use of these images in artistic and scientific works, video games were not seen to fall within an artistic use. On August 9, 2018, the German government agreed to recognize some of the artistic nature of video games and softened the restriction on Section 86a, allowing the USK to consider games with such imagery as long as they fell within the social adequacy clause of Section 86a.\n\nThe lines between video games and art become blurred when exhibitions fit the labels of both game and interactive art. The Smithsonian American Art Museum held an exhibit in 2012, entitled \"The Art of Video Games\", which was designed to demonstrate the artistic nature of video games, including the impact of older works and the subsequent influence of video games on creative culture. The Smithsonian later added \"Flower\" and \"Halo 2600\", games from this collection, as permanent exhibits within the museum. Similarly, the Museum of Modern Art in New York City aims to collect forty historically important video games in their original format to exhibit, showcasing video game interaction design as part of a broader effort to \"celebrate gaming as an artistic medium\". The annual \"Into the Pixel\" art exhibit held at the time of the Electronic Entertainment Expo highlights video game art selected by a panel of both video game and art industry professionals.\n\nWhile many video games are recognized as art for their visual imagery and storytelling, another class of games has gained attention for creating an emotional experience for the player, generally by having the user role-play as a character under a stress-inducing situation, covering topics associated with poverty, sexuality, and physical and mental illnesses. Such games are considered to be examples of an empathy game, loosely described by Patrick Begley of the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" as a game that \"asks players to inhabit their character's emotional worlds\".\n\nThe characterization of games as works of art has been controversial. While recognizing that games may contain artistic elements in their traditional forms such as graphic art, music, and story, several notable figures have advanced the position that games are not artworks, and may never be capable of being called art.\n\nAmerican courts first began examining the question of whether video games were entitled to constitutional guarantees of free speech as under the First Amendment, in March 1982 in the case of \"America's Best Family Showplace Corp. v. City of New York, Dept. of Bldgs.\" In a brace of similarly decided lawsuits in 1982 and 1983, precedent began to be established for finding that video games were no more expressive than pinball, chess, board- or card-games, or organized sports. This began to change in 2000 as some courts began to make rulings in distinction and carving out narrow exceptions for some \"elements\" of video games.\n\nBy April 2002, controversy over the topic was still a legal reality as Judge Stephen N. Limbaugh, Sr., upon reviewing gameplay from \"'The Resident of Evil Creek', 'Mortal Combat', 'DOOM,' and 'Fear Effect'\" ruled in \"Interactive Digital Software Association v. St. Louis County\" that \"just like bingo, the Court fails to see how video games express ideas, impressions, feelings, or information unrelated to the game itself\". In 2011's \"Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association\" the United States Supreme Court ruled that games are entitled to First Amendment protection, with the majority opinion reading, \"Like the protected books, plays, and movies that preceded them, video games communicate ideas—and even social messages—through many familiar literary devices (such as characters, dialogue, plot, and music) and through features distinctive to the medium (such as the player's interaction with the virtual world). That suffices to confer First Amendment protection.\"\n\nEmerging art forms depend upon existing communities for recognition and legitimation, even as they compete with those incumbents for ideological and material support. Games have faced suspicion from critics of established media, just as film, television, and comics were once doubted. Keith Stewart, games editor for \"The Guardian\", sees mainstream media as preferring to approach games from the angle of the human stories surrounding them – making indie games with identifiable creators attractive to journalists. Critical communities devoted to games have likewise embraced auteur theory of games' artistic potential as underpinned by the creative visions of sole creators. John Lanchester of the \"London Review of Books\" noted that even as video games become a larger market by revenues compared to films and books, the amount of attention given to video games is generally delegated to a limited set of sources and do not readily enter the \"cultural discourse\".\n\nAuteur theory has led to some overlap between indie status and artistic cachet, with critics praising stylistic choices in indie games, when those same choices would be deplored in a commercial game. Rather than defending the medium as a whole, proponents of art games attempt to create a separate milieu opposed to video games they accept to be low culture. In practice, indie auteurs often receive commercial backing, while mainstream creators such as Shigeru Miyamoto and Peter Molyneux are increasingly viewed as auteurs as well. The conflation of indieness and artistry has been criticized by some, including Anna Anthropy, Lucy Kellaway, and Jim Munroe, who argue the characteristics that distinguish indie games from the mainstream are not inherently artistic.\n\nMunroe suggested that video games often face a double standard in that if they conform to traditional notions of the game as a toy for children then they are flippantly dismissed as trivial and non-artistic, but if they push the envelope by introducing serious adult themes into games then they face negative criticism and controversy for failing to conform to the very standards of non-artistic triviality demanded by these traditional notions. He further explained games as a type of art more akin to architecture, in which the artist creates a space for the audience to experience on their own terms, than to a non-interactive presentation as in cinema.\n\nVideo game designer Kim Swift believes games can be artistic but denies that they need to be art in order to have cultural value. She feels video games should aspire to be toys through which adults can exercise their imaginations.\n\nThe question rose to wide public attention in the mid-2000s when film critic Roger Ebert participated in a series of controversial debates and published colloquies. In 2005, following an online discussion concerning whether or not knowledge of the game \"Doom\" was essential to a proper appreciation of the film \"Doom\" (which Ebert had awarded one star) as a commentary on the game, Ebert described video games as a non-artistic medium incomparable to the more established art forms:\n\nIn 2006, Ebert took part in a panel discussion at the Conference on World Affairs entitled \"An Epic Debate: Are Video Games an Art Form?\" in which he stated that video games don't explore the meaning of being human as other art forms do. A year later, in response to comments from Clive Barker on the panel discussion, Ebert further noted that video games present a malleability that would otherwise ruin other forms of art. As an example, Ebert posed the idea of a version of \"Romeo and Juliet\" that would allow for an optional happy ending. Such an option, according to Ebert, would weaken the artistic expression of the original work. In April 2010, Ebert published an essay, dissecting a presentation made by Kellee Santiago of thatgamecompany at the 2009 Technology Entertainment Design Conference, where he again claimed that games can never be art, due to their rules and goal-based interactivity.\n\nEbert's essay was strongly criticized by the gaming community, including Santiago herself, who believes that video games as artistic media are only at their infancy, similar to prehistoric cave paintings of the past. Ebert later amended his comments in 2010, conceding that games may indeed be art in a non-traditional sense, that he had enjoyed playing \"Cosmology of Kyoto\", and addressing some replies to his original arguments.\n\nAlthough Ebert did not engage with the issue again and his view remains mired in controversy, the notion that video games are ineligible to be considered fine art due to their commercial appeal and structure as choice-driven narratives has proved persuasive for many including video game luminary Brian Moriarty who in March 2011 gave a lecture on the topic entitled \"An Apology For Roger Ebert\". In this lecture Moriarty emphasized that video games are merely an extension of traditional rule-based games and that there has been no call to declare games like Chess and Go to be art. He went on to argue that art in the sense that Romantics like Ebert, Schopenhauer, and he were concerned with (i.e. fine art or sublime art) is exceptionally rare and that Ebert was being consistent by declaring video games to be without artistic merit inasmuch as Ebert had previously claimed that \"Hardly any movies are art.\" Moriarty decried the modern expansion of the definition of \"art\" to include low art, comparing video games to kitsch and describing aesthetic appreciation of video games as camp. After addressing the corrupting influence of commercial forces in indie games and the difficulty of setting out to create art given the \"slippery\" tools that game designers must work with, Moriarty concluded that ultimately it was the fact that player choices were presented in games that structurally invalidated the application of the term \"art\" to video games as the audience's interaction with the work wrests control from the author and thereby negates the expression of art. This lecture was in turn criticized sharply by noted video game designer, Zach Gage.\n\nIn a 2006 interview with \"US Official PlayStation 2 Magazine\", game designer Hideo Kojima agreed with Ebert's assessment that video games are not art. Kojima acknowledged that games may contain artwork, but he stressed the intrinsically popular nature of video games in contrast to the niche interests served by art. Since the highest ideal of all video games is to achieve 100% player satisfaction whereas art is targeted to at least one person, Kojima argued that video game creation is more of a service than an artistic endeavor.\n\nAt the 2010 Art History of Games conference, Michael Samyn and Auriea Harvey (founding members of indie studio Tale of Tales), argued in no uncertain terms that games \"are not art\" and that they are by and large \"a waste of time.\" Central to Tale of Tales' distinction between games and art is the purposive nature of games as opposed to art: Whereas humans possess a biological need that is only satisfied by play, argues Samyn, and as play has manifested itself in the form of games, games represent nothing more than a physiological necessity. Art, on the other hand, is not created out of a physical need but rather it represents a search for higher purposes. Thus the fact that a game acts to fulfill the physical needs of the player is sufficient, according to Samyn, to disqualify it as art.\n\nGamers were surprised by this controversial stance due to the frequency of prior third-party characterizations of Tale of Tales' productions as \"art games,\" however Tale of Tales clarified that the games they were making simply expanded the conception of games. The characterization of their games as \"art games,\" noted Samyn, was merely a byproduct of the imaginative stagnation and lack of progressivism in the video game industry. While Tale of Tales acknowledged that old media featuring one-way communication was not enough, and that two-way communication via computers offers the way forward for art, the studio argued that such communication today is being held hostage by the video game industry. To enable and foment this futuristic two-way art, suggests Tale of Tales, the concept of \"the game\" must be eviscerated by games that do not fit within the current paradigm and then \"life must be breathed into the carcass\" through the creation of artworks Samyn and Harvey refer to as \"not games.\"\n\nIn 2011, Samyn further refined his argument that games are not art by emphasizing the fact that games are systematic and rule-based. Samyn identified an industry emphasis on gameplay mechanics as directly responsible for the marginalization of artistic narrative in games and he described modern video games as little more than digital sport. Pointing to systemic problems, Samyn criticized the current model whereby the putative artist must work through a large and highly efficient development team who may not share the artist's vision. However, Samyn does not reject the idea that games, as a medium, can be used to create art. To create art using the medium of the video game Samyn suggests that the artistic message must precede the means of its expression in the guidance of gameplay mechanics, the development of \"funness\" or economic considerations must cease to guide the work's creation, and the development process must embrace a model wherein a single artist-author's vision gains central primacy.\n\nIn 2012, \"Guardian\" art critic Jonathan Jones published an article arguing that games are more like a playground and not art. Jones also notes that the nature of creating video games robs \"one person’s reaction to life\" and that \"no one owns the game, so there is no artist, and therefore no work of art.\"\n\nIn 2013, video game journalist Patricia Hernandez described a puzzle in the interactive fiction game \"Photopia\". The solution of the puzzle involves a reveal regarding the player's controlled playable character, prompting experiences which Hernandez argues could not be made \"as powerful as they are\" in any other art form without interactivity. Hernandez says that narrations in the interactive medium happen in the first person and the present tense, which are \"fundamental (and often misunderstood) elements of the interactive medium\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5734461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5734461", "title": "Wrong Turn 2: Dead End", "text": "Wrong Turn 2: Dead End\n\nWrong Turn 2: Dead End is a 2007 American horror film directed by Joe Lynch and starring Erica Leerhsen, Henry Rollins and Texas Battle. The film is a sequel to \"Wrong Turn\" (2003) and the second installment in the \"Wrong Turn\" series. The film received a positive response from critics making it the best-reviewed film in the series.\n\nIt is followed by \"\" (2009).\n\nReality show contestant Kimberly Caldwell is driving through the West Virginia back country searching for the location of her next project. While driving, she accidentally hits a human figure. She stops to help him, but he bites her lips off, revealing him to be Brother, a mutant cannibal. She attempts to escape but runs into Three Finger, who splits her in half vertically with an ax. He and Brother drag her body away as her intestines lie on the road.\n\nFormer U.S. Marine Colonel Dale Murphy is hosting a survival reality game show \"The Apocalypse: Ultimate Survivalist\", in the West Virginia forest with contestants lingerie model Elena, skateboarder Jonesy, Iraq veteran Amber, former football player Jake and a goth Nina. When Kimberly does not show up, unbeknownst to them, the show's producer Mara reluctantly takes her place.\n\nWhen the game starts, Three Finger kills Neil, one of the television crew. While Dale prepares for the games, Three Finger and another cannibal Pa, attack and knock him unconscious. Meanwhile, Mara enters the cabin to try to find a telephone as Nina follows her. While they look around the cabin, they hear the occupants return, so they hide in a bedroom. They witness a female cannibal, Ma, giving birth to a deformed baby. Her daughter, Sister, spots Nina and Mara in the bedroom, forcing the two to escape through the toilet pit. They run into the woods, but Mara is hit in the head with an ax thrown by Pa. Nina searches for the others as the cannibals collect Mara's body.\n\nAfter showrunner, Elena bribes M, the show's editor, by performing fellatio on him to get more screen time and then has sex with him. M returns to the RV while Elena stays by a lake to tan in her underwear. When Elena hears the cannibals, she starts to get dressed as Sister emerges from the bushes and slashes her spine with a machete and kills her. While M is in the RV, Ma and Pa hijack it. Pa attacks M and captures him. Meanwhile, Dale manages to escape and battles Three Finger. After a short fight, Dale shoots Three Finger with a shotgun and he flies to the lake behind.\n\nAs Jake, Amber, and Jonesy are eating some meat they found, Nina returns and explains about the cannibals. When Jake realizes it was Kimberly's leg they had been eating, he, Nina, Amber and Jonesy attempt to escape. Dale finds old man Maynard in a cabin he enters. Maynard tells him how the cannibals' mutations were caused by inbreeding and effluent dumped in the river by the abandoned paper mill. He then reveals that he is their father and attacks Dale. After a brief skirmish, Dale kills Maynard by blowing him up with a stick of dynamite. After finding the RV gone, the others run towards the woods and encounter Brother and Sister. After fighting the cannibals, Jake searches for Nina while Amber and Jonesy go for help. Jake rescues Nina from a pit and they jump into the river to escape Sister. Brother and Pa then kill Amber and Jonesy with an arrow to their heads.\n\nNina and Jake enter the mill and find a garage full of vehicles stolen from prior victims. They find the RV, and Jake enters it and witnesses M being decapitated by Ma on a live feed monitor inside. Nina and Jake attempt to leave but the cannibals capture them. The abandoned mill is revealed to be the mutants' home. Jake is strung up and Nina is strapped to a chair with barbed wire. The mutants eat dinner and force feed, Nina.\n\nDale sneaks into the compound and distracts the cannibals. As the cannibals are searching for him, Dale manages to kill Brother and Sister with dynamite attached to an arrow. He frees Nina and Jake, but is killed by Ma and Pa, who were incensed by the deaths of their children. Nina successfully escapes, but Jake wanders into a room fitted with an enormous tree debarker, where he is attacked by Ma and Pa. Nina returns to the mill and kills Ma and Pa with the debarker. Nina and Jake find Kimberly's abandoned car and drive away. Meanwhile, Three Finger has survived and is feeding the deformed baby with a finger revealing he's still out there.\n\n\"Wrong Turn 2: Dead End\" began filming on May 29, 2006 and finished on June 30, 2006 in Vancouver, Canada. \n\nThe score soundtrack was composed by Bear McCreary.\n\n\nThe first film stills were released to Fangoria, Dread Central, and Bloody Disgusting, quickly followed by the release of the official cover art, DVD details, and disc specifications. A month later it was announced that the film was accepted at the London FrightFest Film Festival and Austin's Fantastic Fest, and premiered on August 25 in the United Kingdom, and September 21, 2007 in the United States.\n\nThe film was released on DVD on October 9, 2007, in an unrated version with extras include commentary by director Joe Lynch and actors Erica Leerhsen and Henry Rollins, a second commentary by writers Turi Meyer and Al Septien, a featurette on the making of the film and the trailer. The film later released on Blu-ray on September 15, 2009. It grossed $9 million in home video sales in the US.\n\nRotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, reports that it received positive reviews from 78% of nine critics.\n\nSteve Barton of DreadCentral gave the film 4 out of 5 stars, stating that the film \"is a hot ticket for some gore-soaked backwoods mayhem that gets even better with repeated viewings and lots of booze.\" Brian Collins of Bloody Disgusting stated that \"what could have been a cheap and lazy cash-in turned out to be one of the year's better genre offerings\". David Johnson of DVD Verdict said the film is \"a derivative and stupid outing\" but very entertaining. David Walker of DVD Talk rated the film 3.5/5 stars and called it \"a consistently entertaining film\" that effectively parodies and homages genre films that have come before it.\n\nAt the Gérardmer Film Festival, the film won the \"Best Direct-to-Video Film\" award.\n\n"}
