{"id": "12519622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12519622", "title": "A5 motorway (Cyprus)", "text": "A5 motorway (Cyprus)\n\nThe A5 links the A1 motorway (at the level of Kofinou village) with the A3 near Larnaca. It serves as the main route linking the cities of Limassol (with the biggest seaport on the island) and Larnaca (with the largest airport). It runs parallel to the older B5 Main Road.\n"}
{"id": "525049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525049", "title": "ARNES", "text": "ARNES\n\nThe Academic and Research Network of Slovenia () is a public institute in Slovenia, established in May 1992. Its main task is development, operation and management of the communication and information network for education and research. ARNES also operates the Slovenian Internet Exchange.\n\nThe members of its management board are appointed by the Government of Slovenia.\n\nAlso a part of ARNES, is SI-CERT, the Slovenian Computer Emergency Response Team. It was established in 1994 and has been led by Gorazd Božič. SI-CERT was involved in the take-down of the recordings of the Government of Slovenia's closed session recordings leaked in December 2011 on YouTube. The recordings were taken down by YouTube after the copyright-related lawsuit threat by SI-CERT. It has not been involved in the investigation of the leak.\n\n"}
{"id": "56730357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56730357", "title": "A Bitter Lullaby", "text": "A Bitter Lullaby\n\n\"A Bitter Lullaby\" is a song performed by Swedish singer Martin Almgren. It participates in Melodifestivalen 2018 where it made it to the final from the third semi-final. \n"}
{"id": "57989592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57989592", "title": "Al Marmoom Desert Conservation Reserve", "text": "Al Marmoom Desert Conservation Reserve\n\nAl Marmoom Desert Conservation Reserve is the first unfenced nature conservation reserve in the United Arab Emirates. It is located in the desert area of Saih Al Salam in the emirate of Dubai and comprises some 10% of the total land area of the emirate, including the extensive man-made desert wetlands, the Al Qudra Lakes.\n\nThe Reserve spans over 40 hectares of desert shrub land and 10km of lakes and is home to 26 identified species of reptiles, nine of mammals and 39 species of plants. It provides a sanctuary for 19 animal species considered endangered, as well as flocks of between 300 to 500 flamingos and over 360 other bird species, of which 158 are migratory. Rare species observed at Al Marmoom include the Egyptian Nightjar and the butterfly \"Coeliades Anchises Jucunda\", which is native to the island of Socotra, off Yemen.\n\nIts announcement, in January 2018, followed public concern regarding the fouling of the area by tourists as well as a number of deaths of wildlife in the lakes.\n\nAl Marmoom is managed by Dubai Municipality, The formalisation of the reserve has introduced some restrictions to human leisure activity in the area, long a popular visiting place for residents. The move to regulate camping, barbecuing and picnicking was welcomed by the Emirates Environmental Group (EEG), an organisation that had organised cleanup campaigns in the area in the past.\n\nThe Marmoom Biosphere Centre is intended as a facility for studying the sustainable development and management of the Reserve, as well as serving as a centre for sustainable ecotourism, and will aim to be the main source of specialized ecosystem management practices in the region.\n\nThe Reserve currently has a number of animal and bird observation platforms, star and sunset observation decks and an 84km cycling track, one of the world's largest. There is an ongoing development program for the reserve, including bird breeding programs as well as the development of an outdoor theatre and other facilities intended to be powered by a 5,000 megawatt solar power plant. Al Marmoom is served by one of Dubai's distinctive 'Last Exit' food truck parks.\n\nStar gazing events are often held at Al Marmoom by Dubai Astronomy Group as the area has little to no light pollution. Some 20 sporting and social events have taken place in the Reserve since its launch, including a junior fun day organised Pink Caravan, the UAE-based breast cancer awareness initiative. \n\nA 270km desert ultramarathon has been announced, to take place at Al Marmoom between December 11-15 2018, with some 400 runners competing for $80,000 in prizes over distances of 50 km, 100 km, and 270 km.\n\nThe Bab Al Shams Desert Resort & Spa is situated close to the Reserve.\n\nThe Saruq Al Hadid Archaeological Site is situated within the Reserve. It was discovered in 2002 by the Ruler of Dubai, Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, who noticed unusual dune formations when flying over the site in his helicopter. Excavation revealed an extensive Iron age metallurgical centre, with signs of occupation since the Upper Palaeolithic and Neolithic eras. Artefacts unearthed at Saruq Al Hadid include bronze, copper and iron work, including bronze and iron tools and weapons, gold jewellery, beads, pottery, stoneware and seals. Metalworker's tools and unfinished items show that the site was formerly a production centre.\n\nA collection of artefacts from the site is housed at the Saruq Al-Hadid Archaeology Museum in the Shindaga Heritage area in a traditional 'barjeel' building, which was built in 1928, and which belonged to Sheikh Juma bin Maktoum Al Maktoum.\n"}
{"id": "42676797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42676797", "title": "Ann Hunt and Elizabeth Hamel", "text": "Ann Hunt and Elizabeth Hamel\n\nAnn Hunt and Elizabeth Hamel (born 28 February 1936) are twin sisters who were reunited after almost 78 years apart. The period of separation is a Guinness World Record for twins. Both women were born in Aldershot, England, in 1936. Their mother could not afford to keep both of them since she was a domestic servant. Elizabeth was kept because she had curvature of the spine and her mother thought that it would be difficult for her to be adopted. Ann was adopted and raised as an only child. As an adult, Elizabeth met an American and moved to the United States. On 1 May 2014, the sisters were reunited again in Fullerton, California, United States. The women spent the next day undergoing testing at the Twin Studies Center at California State University in Fullerton, which does research into how genes and environment affect development. The research was published in a 2015 paper in the journal Personality and Individual Differences (Segal et al.. Genetic and experiential influences on behavior: Twins reunited at seventy-eight years. Personality and Individual Differences, 73, 110-117.). Additional material on twins raised apart is available in Segal, N.L. (2012). Born Together-Reared Apart: The Landmark Minnesota Twin Study, Harvard University Press.\n\nThe fraternal twins' mother's name was Alice Alexandra Patience Lamb and their father's last name was Peters. They were born Patricia Susan Lamb (Ann Hunt) and Elizabeth Ann Lamb (Elizabeth Hamel). Their mother was unmarried and a domestic cook. Their father was in the Army and stationed in Aldershot, UK, but he never saw his daughters.\n\nTheir mother could not afford to raise both of them, so she gave Patricia Susan Lamb up for adoption when she was five months old. She was adopted by Hector and Gladys Wilson who also lived in Aldershot. They renamed her Ann Patricia Wilson. When Ann was 14, her aunt told her that she was adopted. When she asked her mother if she was adopted, her mother told Ann that she was adopted because her birth mother could not care for her and that Ann's birth mother allowed her (Gladys) to care for Ann.\n\nIn 2001, Gladys died and Ann went to the register office to get a copy of her own birth certificate. She discovered that her birth mother's name was Alice Lamb and that her occupation was a domestic cook. There was, however, no information about other children, the age of her birth mother, nor the address where she lived. Ann's youngest daughter, Samantha Stacey, was interested in genealogy, so Ann asked her to look into it. It turned out to be a long process because they had so little information to work with and they assumed that Ann's birth mother Alice was very young when she had Ann, when, in fact, she had been 33. Samantha put ads in the local newspaper, searched electoral rolls and online forums. She made little headway.\n\nIn 2013, a breakthrough came. Samantha said she was exhausted doing the research and taking care of her child at the same time. Her husband asked her what he could do for her, and she asked him to find Alice's death certificate. He did, and they discovered that Alice married George Burton when she was 49; they had married in 1951 in the Parish Church of St Bridget with St Martin in Chester. They also knew that the couple married in Chester, England, and that Alice had a stepson named Albert. Albert died by this time, but they were able to track down his son, who told them, \"Oh, yes, Alice has a daughter in the US.\" Samantha later told her mother Ann that not only did she have a sister, but that her sister was her twin. Samantha was apprehensive about telling her mother that she had a twin because her mother was the twin that was adopted; but when Samantha told her mother, she was just happy to find out that she had a sister.\n\nOn 22 April 2013, Elizabeth was going through her mail when she spotted a letter (sent by Samantha) from Aldershot, UK, where she was born. When she opened it she saw that the letter began with \"I am writing to you as I am searching for a family connection\" and she immediately knew what it was about. She shared the letter with her two sons Quinton and Jeff. A few minutes later she called her long-lost sister Ann in the UK. After their first phone conversation Elizabeth wrote a letter to Ann to explain what had happened. Elizabeth wrote to Ann that their mother planned to have both of her twins adopted, but that when she found out that Elizabeth had curvature of the spine, which back then made her harder to adopt, she decided to keep Elizabeth. In 1936, it was difficult for an unmarried woman in domestic service to keep a child. Alice was a live-in servant and live-in servants were almost never allowed to keep any children with them. Moreover, she had the stigma of an illegitimate child, which back then could have resulted in her losing her job.\n\nBecause of Alice's situation, Elizabeth did not live with her for a number of years. An aunt took care of Elizabeth until she was about three or four years old when her mother moved to Berkhamsted where she worked for Captain Hallam. A woman in Berkhamsted then took care of Elizabeth. Alice would visit Elizabeth every week on her half-day off, but one week she was unable to visit at her usual time because of a dinner party at the Hallam's estate. When she did arrive unexpectedly, Alice found Elizabeth dressed in rags. Alice had made many dresses for Elizabeth to wear. She immediately took Elizabeth to the Hallam's estate and they lived in the servants quarters, which occurred during World War II.\n\nBoth Alice and Elizabeth moved to London where Alice earned £2 a week with room and board. When Elizabeth was 15 her mother got married. It was at about this time that Alice told Elizabeth that she had a twin sister. She saw Ann's adoption papers but they were lost in 1980 when Alice died. At the time, Elizabeth wished that she had asked her mother more questions because her cousins told her two conflicting stories about the reason for the adoption. One story was that when her father found out she was pregnant, he completely rejected her. The other story was that he wanted the twins but by the time his message got to Alice, it was too late.\n\nBoth Elizabeth and Ann married in their mid-20s. After Ann left school, she worked as a printer until she was 25 when she married Jim Hunt, whom she had met at school. They lived in Aldershot and had three daughters. After Elizabeth left school, she worked in a sweet shop, but wanted to join the Navy. She went to night school and was later able to join the Women's Royal Naval Service in Portsmouth. She was then stationed in Malta where she met Jim Hammel, an American, on a blind date. Elizabeth married Jim when she was 28. They moved to Oregon, had two sons, and were married for 48 years until Jim died in 2012.\n\nAfter the initial call, the sisters got to know each other using Skype.\nFinally, on 1 May 2014, over a year after the first phone call, Ann and Elizabeth reunited after 78 years apart. They met in a hotel room in Fullerton, California, which is near Los Angeles. They went to Fullerton to meet because Dr. Nancy Segal invited them to participate her twins research program, which has been going on for over 20 years. After meeting Elizabeth, Ann said \"I feel like I've known Liz all my life now.\" After two days of testing they went to Elizabeth's home in Albany, Oregon.\nWhen they went to Oregon, they spent 6 May at Historic Carousel and Museum in Albany and Ann left for England on 9 May.\n\nThey found that the hardest part of meeting was the international spotlight they found themselves in. The BBC interviewed them in their room and they also had many requests for interviews from other media outlets. Hamel said that \"We've gotten a taste of what it's like to be a famous film star or royalty\" as she reportedly wrinkled her face up in disgust. They exchanged gifts as Dr. Segal reports separated twins often do when they reunite. Elizabeth gave Ann a cameo that had been passed down from her grandmother to her mother to her.\n\nThe twins were invited to the Twin Studies Center at California State University, Fullerton, California, to participate in an ongoing study of twins who have been raised separately most of their lives to investigate the effects of genes on behaviour. During the two-day study, Dr. Segal assessed similarities and differences between the twins and conducted DNA analyses. In particular, she aimed to get a comprehensive assessment of their abilities, interests, and lives since they are the world's longest separated twins.\n\nIn the Minnesota Study of Twins Reared Apart, researchers found that 44.5% of twins separated at or near birth were separated because of birth out of marriage. Almost all twins separated for this reason are both adopted, but Ann and Elizabeth's case is unusual because one baby was kept by the natural mother. Dr. Segal has found that twins separated for even long periods of time, have surprising similarities. For example, Bridget and Dorothy, a pair of separated twins were wearing the same jewellery when they were reunited: \"seven rings, three bracelets and a watch.\" Where these similarities come from is a complicated question, but Dr. Segal suspects that genes associated with intelligence, temperament, and personality may explain some of the similarities between separated twins.\n\nAnn and Elizabeth have a number of similarities. They both married men named \"Jim.\" Both are widowed, grandmothers, and religious. After talking on Skype many times during the year before they met, they believe they shared many mannerisms in common. There are also major differences in their lives. Ann married and remained in her birth town. Elizabeth joined the navy, married an American, and ended up moving to the US and becoming an American citizen.\n\nBoth twins were born on 28 February 1936 and they were separated at five months of age. They were reunited 1 May 2014. The length of their separation was 77 years and 289 days, which is a Guinness World Record for longest separated twins. The previous record was held by Philip and Barbara McAuley also from the United Kingdom. They had been separated for 69 years and 364 days.\n\n"}
{"id": "5659979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5659979", "title": "Apogevmatini", "text": "Apogevmatini\n\nApogevmatini was a Greek newspaper that was published nationally for decades until its last owners, the Sarantopoulos family, declared its bankruptcy in November 2010. It was at 12 Feidiou Street in the downtown area of the capital city of Athens. The newspaper was founded by the Botsis family in the 20th century. It had a semi-liberal approach to the economy and traditionally had right-wing sympathies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23000322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23000322", "title": "Bakki Airport", "text": "Bakki Airport\n\nBakki Airport is an airport on the southern coast of Iceland, used mainly for short-haul flights to and from the Westman Islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155549", "title": "Blodpalt", "text": "Blodpalt\n\nBlodpalt (in Swedish) or (, blood cake), is an old-fashioned dish still fairly common in northern Finland and parts of northern Sweden. The dish's history goes back to a time when the households carefully made use of all parts of the animals to get enough food.\n\n\"Blodpalt\" is essentially \"palt\", a north Finnish dumpling made from barley or rye flour and (but not always) grated raw potatoes, with blood added to the dough, which makes it a more nutritious meal that was often eaten during the dark and long winter.\n\nIn Lapland, \"blodpalt\" is usually made with reindeer blood, and rye or wheat flour, but no potatoes, and served either as dumplings in a soup, or with unsmoked bacon. In other parts of northern Sweden, \"blodpalt\" is made the same way as regular bacon-filled \"palt\", but with blood added to the dough.\n\n"}
{"id": "20813238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20813238", "title": "Blue Bird K3", "text": "Blue Bird K3\n\nBlue Bird K3 is a hydroplane powerboat commissioned in 1937 by Sir Malcolm Campbell, to rival the Americans' efforts in the fight for the world water speed record. She set three world water speed records, first on Lake Maggiore in September 1937, then later twice raising her own record.\n\nThe name \"K3\" was derived from its Lloyd's unlimited rating, and was carried in a prominent circular badge on the forward hull.\n\nAfter Campbell's achievement of the 300 mph land speed record with Blue Bird in 1935 he retired from the land speed record. Shortly afterwards he switched his attentions to the water speed record, at that time dominated by the American Gar Wood.\n\nFred Cooper of Saunders Roe was commissioned to design a small hydroplane powered by the same Rolls Royce R engine used in Blue Bird, and also in pairs in Segrave and Kaye Don's Miss England boats. Of the three individual R engines used by K3, one had previously run in Blue Bird and one in Miss England. \n\nUnlike Gar Wood's multi-engined monsters, Blue Bird was designed for a single engine, and the smallest possible craft to carry it. She was 23 feet long, compared to 38 feet for Miss America X. Her estimated top speed on paper was to be 130 mph. It was usual at this time for English hydroplanes to have their engines mounted as far astern as possible (Gar Wood disagreed, and had pointed this out to Segrave). K3 took this a step further and had a narrow central nacelle that overhung the transom of the stern. This rearward weight distribution encouraged planing, but could lead to some peculiar attitudes when setting off at slow speeds, as the whole boat appeared to be sinking by the stern.\n\nOn 1 September 1937, at Lake Maggiore on the border between Switzerland and Italy, K3 set a record of 126.32 mph, breaking Gar Wood's previous 5-year-old record. The next day she improved this to 129.5 mph. \n\nBreaking the design speed of 130 would require another year, when on 17 August 1938 at Lake Hallwyl in Switzerland at 130.91 mph(210.63 km/h).\n\nDespite these records, Campbell was dissatisfied with their small margin over the previous record (6 mph). K3's hull was a single-step hydroplane, as already used for Miss England. This lifted half of the hull clear of the water, reducing drag upon it. A new idea from America was the \"three point\" hydroplane, where the forward hull is divided into two sponsons and the boat rides at speed on just these and the propellor. This reduces the wetted area (and drag) still further. It was not possible to convert K3 to this hull form, so Campbell began work on a whole new boat, K4, re-using the same engine.\n\nThe original boat was restored at Filching Manor in East Sussex and is now in working order. The boat was stripped down and fully rebuilt using parts to the original standard. (http://www.k3bluebird.com)\n\nShe ran on the regatta course at Henley-on-Thames during the Traditional Boat Festival on 18-19 July 2015. (http://www.tradboatfestival.com/#!bluebird-k3/c9ig)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "964610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=964610", "title": "Border states (Eastern Europe)", "text": "Border states (Eastern Europe)\n\nBorder states or European buffer states was a political term used in the West before World War II, and referring to the European nations that won their independence from the Russian Empire after the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917, the treaty of Brest-Litovsk, and ultimately the defeat of the German Empire and Austria-Hungary in World War I. During the 20th century interwar period the nations of Western Europe implemented a border states policy which aimed at uniting these nations in defense against the Soviet Union and communist expansionism. The border states were interchangeably Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and, until their annexation into the Soviet Union, short-lived Belarus and Ukraine.\n\nThe policy tended to see the border states as a \"cordon sanitaire\", or buffer states, separating Western Europe from the newly formed Soviet Union. This policy was very successful. Soviet Union was at the time driven by trotskyist ideology whose goal was the permanent revolution aiming not to cease until spreading communism all over the world. This plan was shattered by Poland which stopped Bolschevik Red Army invasion by successfully winning Polish–Soviet War. After the end of the war Poland's leader Pilsudski, despite an option having had opened, has refrained from taking over Moscow and toppling the communists, as he feared the comeback of white tsarist imperial Russia. Poland wanted to unify its core region with surrounding states as Intermarium, but disputes and different allegiances between and within the group of states hindered unity. The matter was further complicated by the rise of the expansionist Nazi Germany. In 1939 Germany and the Soviet Union signed the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact with a secret clause, which effectively divided the territory of the border states between those two totalitarian regimes. Immediately afterwards, Nazi Germany and Soviet Union jointly attacked Poland from two sides thus beginning World War II in Europe. After the end of the war, all border states with the exception of Finland, were transferred under Soviet occupation as a result of the Western betrayal.\n\n"}
{"id": "3463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3463", "title": "Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina ( or ; abbreviated B&H; Bosnian and Serbian: \"Bosna i Hercegovina\" (BiH) / Боснa и Херцеговина (БиХ), Croatian: \"Bosna i Hercegovina\" (BiH), ), sometimes called Bosnia–Herzegovina, and often known informally as Bosnia, is a country in Southeastern Europe in the Balkan Peninsula. Sarajevo is the capital and largest city.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina is an almost landlocked country – it has a narrow coast at the Adriatic Sea, about long surrounding the town of Neum. It is bordered by Croatia to the north, west and south, Serbia to the east, and Montenegro to the southeast. In the central and eastern interior of the country the geography is mountainous, in the northwest it is moderately hilly, and the northeast is predominantly flatland. The inland, Bosnia, is a geographically larger region and has a moderate continental climate, with hot summers and cold and snowy winters. The southern tip, Herzegovina, has a Mediterranean climate and plain topography.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina traces permanent human settlement back to the Neolithic age, during and after which it was populated by several Illyrian and Celtic civilizations. Culturally, politically, and socially, the country has a rich history, having been first settled by the Slavic peoples that populate the area today from the 6th through to the 9th centuries. In the 12th century the Banate of Bosnia was established, which evolved into the Kingdom of Bosnia in the 14th century, after which it was annexed into the Ottoman Empire, under whose rule it remained from the mid-15th to the late 19th centuries. The Ottomans brought Islam to the region, and altered much of the cultural and social outlook of the country. This was followed by annexation into the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, which lasted up until World War I. In the interwar period, Bosnia and Herzegovina was part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and after World War II, it was granted full republic status in the newly formed Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Following the dissolution of Yugoslavia, the republic proclaimed independence in 1992, which was followed by the Bosnian War, lasting until late 1995.\n\nThe country is one of the most frequently visited countries in the region, projected to have the third highest tourism growth rate in the world until 2020. Bosnia and Herzegovina is regionally and internationally renowned for its natural environment and cultural heritage inherited from six historical civilizations, its cuisine, winter sports, its eclectic and unique music, architecture and its festivals, some of which are the largest and most prominent of their kind in Southeastern Europe. The country is home to three main ethnic groups or, officially, constituent peoples, as specified in the constitution. Bosniaks are the largest group of the three, with Serbs second and Croats third. A native of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of ethnicity, is usually identified in English as a Bosnian. Minorities, defined under the constitutional nomenclature \"Others\", include Jews, Roma, Poles, Ukrainians and Turks. Bosnia and Herzegovina has a bicameral legislature and a three-member Presidency composed of a member of each major ethnic group. However, the central government's power is highly limited, as the country is largely decentralized and comprises two autonomous entities: the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, with a third unit, the Brčko District, governed under local government. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of 10 cantons.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina ranks highly in terms of human development, and has an economy dominated by the industry and agriculture sectors, followed by the tourism and service sectors. The country has a social security and universal healthcare system, and primary- and secondary-level education is tuition-free. It is a member of the UN, OSCE, Council of Europe, PfP, CEFTA and a founding member of the Union for the Mediterranean upon its establishment in July 2008. The country is a potential candidate for membership to the European Union and has been a candidate for NATO membership since April 2010, when it received a Membership Action Plan.\n\nThe first preserved widely acknowledged mention of Bosnia is in \"De Administrando Imperio\", a politico-geographical handbook written by the Byzantine emperor Constantine VII in the mid-10th century (between 948 and 952) describing the \"small land\" (χωρίον in Greek) of \"Bosona\" (Βοσώνα).\n\nThe name is believed to have derived from the hydronym of the river Bosna coursing through the Bosnian heartland. According to philologist Anton Mayer the name \"Bosna\" could derive from Illyrian *\"Bass-an-as\"), which would derive from the Proto-Indo-European root \"bos\" or \"bogh\"—meaning \"the running water\". According to English medievalist William Miller the Slavic settlers in Bosnia \"adapted the Latin designation [...] Basante, to their own idiom by calling the stream Bosna and themselves \"Bosniaks\" [...]\".\n\nThe name \"Herzegovina\" (\"herzog's [land]\", from German word for \"duke\") originates from Bosnian magnate Stjepan Vukčić Kosača's title, \"Herceg (Herzog) of Hum and the Coast\" (1448). Hum, formerly Zahumlje, was an early medieval principality that was conquered by the Bosnian Banate in the first half of the 14th century. The region was administered by the Ottomans as the Sanjak of Herzegovina (\"Hersek\") within the Eyalet of Bosnia up until the formation of the short-lived Herzegovina Eyalet in the 1830s, which remerged in the 1850s, after which the entity became commonly known as \"Bosnia and Herzegovina\".\n\nOn initial proclamation of independence in 1992, the country's official name was the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina but following the 1995 Dayton Agreement and the new constitution that accompanied it the official name was changed to Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nBosnia has been inhabited since at least the Neolithic age. The earliest Neolithic population became known in the Antiquity as the Illyrians. Celtic migrations in the 4th century BC were also notable. Concrete historical evidence for this period is scarce, but overall it appears the region was populated by a number of different people speaking distinct languages. Conflict between the Illyrians and Romans started in 229 BC, but Rome did not complete its annexation of the region until AD 9. It was precisely in modern-day Bosnia and Herzegovina that Rome fought one of the most difficult battles in its history since the Punic Wars, as described by the Roman historian Suetonius. This was the Roman campaign against Illyricum, known as \"Bellum Batonianum\". The conflict arose after an attempt to recruit Illyrians, and a revolt spanned for four years (6–9 AD), after which they were subdued. In the Roman period, Latin-speaking settlers from the entire Roman Empire settled among the Illyrians, and Roman soldiers were encouraged to retire in the region.\nFollowing the split of the Empire between 337 and 395 AD, Dalmatia and Pannonia became parts of the Western Roman Empire. Some claim the region was conquered by the Ostrogoths in 455 AD. It subsequently changed hands between the Alans and the Huns. By the 6th century, Emperor Justinian had reconquered the area for the Byzantine Empire. Slavs overwhelmed the Balkans in the 6th and 7th centuries. Illyrian cultural traits were adopted by the South Slavs, as evidenced in certain customs and traditions, placenames, etc.\nTimothy Gregory explains:\n\nThe bronze culture of the Illyrians, an ethnic group with a distinct culture and art form, started to organize itself in today's Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Kosovo, Montenegro, Albania and parts of northern Greece.\nFrom 8th century BC, Illyrian tribes evolved into kingdoms. The earliest recorded kingdom in Illyria (a region in the western part of the Balkan Peninsula inhabited by the Illyrians, as recorded in classical antiquity) was the Enchele in the 8th century BC. The era in which we observe other Illyrian kingdoms begins approximately at 400 BC and ends at 167 BC.[7] The Autariatae under Pleurias (337 BC) were considered to have been a kingdom.[8] The Kingdom of the Ardiaei (originally a tribe from the Neretva valley region) began at 230 BC and ended at 167 BC.[9] The most notable Illyrian kingdoms and dynasties were those of Bardyllis of the Dardani and of Agron of the Ardiaei who created the last and best-known Illyrian kingdom.[10] Agron ruled over the Ardiaei and had extended his rule to other tribes as well.\n\nFrom the 7th century BC, bronze was replaced by iron, after which only jewelry and art objects were still made out of bronze. Illyrian tribes, under the influence of Hallstatt cultures to the north, formed regional centers that were slightly different.\nA very important role in their life was the cult of the dead, which is seen in their careful burials and burial ceremonies, as well as the richness of their burial sites. In northern parts, there was a long tradition of cremation and burial in shallow graves, while in the south the dead were buried in large stone or earth tumuli (natively called \"gromile\") that in Herzegovina were reaching monumental sizes, more than 50 m wide and 5 m high. \"Japodian tribes\" had an affinity to decoration (heavy, oversized necklaces out of yellow, blue or white glass paste, and large bronze fibulas, as well as spiral bracelets, diadems and helmets out of bronze foil).\n\nIn the 4th century BC, the first invasion of Celts is recorded. They brought the technique of the pottery wheel, new types of fibulas and different bronze and iron belts. They only passed on their way to Greece, so their influence in Bosnia and Herzegovina is negligible. Celtic migrations displaced many Illyrian tribes from their former lands, but some Celtic and Illyrian tribes mixed. Concrete historical evidence for this period is scarce, but overall it appears the region was populated by a number of different peoples speaking distinct languages.\n\nIn the Neretva Delta in the south, there were important Hellenistic influence of the Illyrian Daors tribe. Their capital was \"Daorson\" in Ošanići near Stolac, the main center of ancient culture in B&H. Daorson in the 4th century BC was surrounded by megalithic, 5 m high stonewalls (as large as those of Mycenae in Greece), composed of large trapezoid stone blocks. Daors made unique bronze coins and sculptures.\n\nThe Early Slavs raided the Western Balkans, including Bosnia, in the 6th and early 7th century (amid the Migration Period), and were composed of small tribal units drawn from a single Slavic confederation known to the Byzantines as the \"Sclaveni\" (whilst the related \"Antes\", roughly speaking, colonized the eastern portions of the Balkans).\nTribes recorded by the ethnonyms of \"Serb\" and \"Croat\" are described as a second, latter, migration of different people during the second quarter of the 7th century who do not seem to have been particularly numerous; these early \"Serb\" and \"Croat\" tribes, whose exact identity is subject to scholarly debate, came to predominate over the Slavs in the neighbouring regions. The bulk of Bosnia proper, however, appears to have been a territory between Serb and Croat rule and is not enumerated as one of the regions settled by those tribes.\n\nBosnia is first mentioned \"as a land (horion Bosona)\" in Byzantine Emperor Constantine Porphyrogenitus' \"De Administrando Imperio\" in the mid 10th century, at the end of a chapter (Chap. 32) entitled \"Of the Serbs and the country in which they now dwell\". This has been scholarly interpreted in several ways and used especially by the Serb national ideologists to prove Bosnia as originally a \"Serb\" land. Other scholars have asserted the inclusion of Bosnia into Chapter 32 to merely be the result of Serbian Grand Duke Časlav's temporary rule over Bosnia at the time, while also pointing out Porphyrogenitus does not say anywhere explicitly that Bosnia is a \"Serb land\". In fact, the very translation of the critical sentence where the word \"Bosona\" (Bosnia) appears is subject to varying interpretation.\n\nIn time, Bosnia formed a unit under its own ruler, who called himself Bosnian. Bosnia, along with other territories, became part of Duklja in the 11th century, although it retained its own nobility and institutions.\nIn the High Middle Ages political circumstance led to the area being contested between the Kingdom of Hungary and the Byzantine Empire. Following another shift of power between the two in the early 12th century, Bosnia found itself outside the control of both and emerged as the Banate of Bosnia (under the rule of local \"bans\"). The first Bosnian ban known by name was Ban Borić. The second was Ban Kulin whose rule marked the start of a controversy involving the Bosnian Church – considered heretical by the Roman Catholic Church. In response to Hungarian attempts to use church politics regarding the issue as a way to reclaim sovereignty over Bosnia, Kulin held a council of local church leaders to renounce the heresy and embraced Catholicism in 1203. Despite this, Hungarian ambitions remained unchanged long after Kulin's death in 1204, waning only after an unsuccessful invasion in 1254. During this time the population was called \"Dobri Bošnjani\" (\"Good Bosnians\"). The names Serb and Croat, though occasionally appearing in peripheral areas, were not used in Bosnia proper.\n\nBosnian history from then until the early 14th century was marked by a power struggle between the Šubić and Kotromanić families. This conflict came to an end in 1322, when Stephen II Kotromanić became \"Ban\". By the time of his death in 1353, he was successful in annexing territories to the north and west, as well as Zahumlje and parts of Dalmatia. He was succeeded by his ambitious nephew Tvrtko who, following a prolonged struggle with nobility and inter-family strife, gained full control of the country in 1367. By the year 1377, Bosnia was elevated into a kingdom with the coronation of Tvrtko as the first Bosnian King in Mile near Visoko in the Bosnian heartland.\n\nFollowing his death in 1391 however, Bosnia fell into a long period of decline. The Ottoman Empire had started its conquest of Europe and posed a major threat to the Balkans throughout the first half of the 15th century. Finally, after decades of political and social instability, the Kingdom of Bosnia ceased to exist in 1463 after its conquest by the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe Ottoman conquest of Bosnia marked a new era in the country's history and introduced drastic changes in the political and cultural landscape. The Ottomans allowed for the preservation of Bosnia's identity by incorporating it as an integral province of the Ottoman Empire with its historical name and territorial integrity — a unique case among subjugated states in the Balkans.\n\nWithin Bosnia the Ottomans introduced a number of key changes in the territory's socio-political administration; including a new landholding system, a reorganization of administrative units, and a complex system of social differentiation by class and religious affiliation.\n\nThe four centuries of Ottoman rule also had a drastic impact on Bosnia's population make-up, which changed several times as a result of the empire's conquests, frequent wars with European powers, forced and economic migrations, and epidemics. A native Slavic-speaking Muslim community emerged and eventually became the largest of the ethno-religious groups due to lack of strong Christian church organizations and continuous rivalry between the Orthodox and Catholic churches, while the indigenous Bosnian Church disappeared altogether (ostensibly by conversion of its members to Islam). The Ottomans referred to them as \"kristianlar\" while the Orthodox and Catholics were called \"gebir\" or \"kafir\", meaning \"unbeliever\". The Bosnian Franciscans (and the Catholic population as a whole) were protected by official imperial decrees and in accordance and full extent of Ottoman laws, however in effect, these often merely affected arbitrary rule and behavior of powerful local elite.\n\nAs the Ottoman Empire continued their rule in the Balkans (Rumelia), Bosnia was somewhat relieved of the pressures of being a frontier province, and experienced a period of general welfare. A number of cities, such as Sarajevo and Mostar, were established and grew into regional centers of trade and urban culture and were then visited by Ottoman traveler Evliya Çelebi in 1648. Within these cities, various Ottoman Sultans financed the construction of many works of Bosnian architecture such as the country's first library in Sarajevo, madrassas, a school of Sufi philosophy, and a clock tower (\"Sahat Kula\"), bridges such as the Stari Most, the Tsar's Mosque and the Gazi Husrev-beg's Mosque.\n\nFurthermore, several Bosnian Muslims played influential roles in the Ottoman Empire's cultural and political history during this time. Bosnian recruits formed a large component of the Ottoman ranks in the battles of Mohács and Krbava field, while numerous other Bosnians rose through the ranks of the Ottoman military to occupy the highest positions of power in the Empire, including admirals such as Matrakçı Nasuh; generals such as Isa-Beg Isaković, Gazi Husrev-beg and Hasan Predojević and Sarı Süleyman Paşa; administrators such as Ferhat-paša Sokolović and Osman Gradaščević; and Grand Viziers such as the influential Mehmed Paša Sokolović and Damad Ibrahim Pasha. Some Bosnians emerged as Sufi mystics, scholars such as Muhamed Hevaji Uskufi Bosnevi, Ali Džabič; and poets in the Turkish, Albanian, Arabic, and Persian languages.\n\nHowever, by the late 17th century the Empire's military misfortunes caught up with the country, and the end of the Great Turkish War with the treaty of Karlowitz in 1699 again made Bosnia the Empire's westernmost province. The following century was marked by further military failures, numerous revolts within Bosnia, and several outbursts of plague. The Porte's efforts at modernizing the Ottoman state were met with distrust growing to hostility in Bosnia, where local aristocrats stood to lose much through the proposed reforms.\n\nThis, combined with frustrations over territorial, political concessions in the north-east, and the plight of Slavic Muslim refugees arriving from the Sanjak of Smederevo into Bosnia Eyalet, culminated in a partially unsuccessful revolt by Husein Gradaščević, who endorsed a multicultural Bosnia Eyalet autonomous from the authoritarian rule of the Ottoman Sultan Mahmud II, who persecuted, executed and abolished the Janissaries and reduced the role of autonomous Pashas in Rumelia. Mahmud II sent his Grand Vizier to subdue Bosnia Eyalet and succeeded only with the reluctant assistance of Ali-paša Rizvanbegović.\n\nRelated rebellions were extinguished by 1850, but the situation continued to deteriorate. Later agrarian unrest eventually sparked the Herzegovinian rebellion, a widespread peasant uprising, in 1875. The conflict rapidly spread and came to involve several Balkan states and Great Powers, a situation that led to the Congress of Berlin and the Treaty of Berlin in 1878.\n\nAt the Congress of Berlin in 1878, the Austro-Hungarian Foreign Minister Gyula Andrássy obtained the occupation and administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and he also obtained the right to station garrisons in the Sanjak of Novi Pazar, which remained under Ottoman administration until 1908, when the Austro-Hungarian troops withdrew from the Sanjak.\n\nAlthough Austro-Hungarian officials quickly came to an agreement with Bosnians, tensions remained and a mass emigration of Bosnians occurred. However, a state of relative stability was reached soon enough and Austro-Hungarian authorities were able to embark on a number of social and administrative reforms they intended would make Bosnia and Herzegovina into a \"model\" colony.\nWith the aim of establishing the province as a stable political model that would help dissipate rising South Slav nationalism, Habsburg rule did much to codify laws, to introduce new political practices, and to provide for modernisation.\n\nAustria–Hungary began to plan annexation of Bosnia and consulted German and Russian diplomats about that prospect since the 1880s, but the issue was not resolved until the annexation crisis of 1908. Several external matters affected status of Bosnia and its relationship with Austria–Hungary. A bloody coup occurred in Serbia in 1903, which brought a radical anti-Austrian government into power in Belgrade. Then in 1908, the revolt in the Ottoman Empire raised concerns the Istanbul government might seek the outright return of Bosnia-Herzegovina. These factors caused the Austro-Hungarian government to seek a permanent resolution of the Bosnian question sooner, rather than later.\nTaking advantage of turmoil in the Ottoman Empire, Austro-Hungarian diplomacy tried to obtain provisional Russian approval for changes over the status of Bosnia Herzegovina and published the annexation proclamation on 6 October 1908. Despite international furor and objections to the Austro-Hungarian annexation, Russians and their client state, Serbia, were compelled to accept the Austrian-Hungarian annexation of Bosnia Herzegovina in March 1909.\n\nIn 1910, Habsburg Emperor Franz Joseph proclaimed the first constitution in Bosnia, which led to relaxation of earlier laws, elections and formation of the Bosnian parliament, and growth of new political life.\n\nOn 28 June 1914, a Yugoslav nationalist youth named Gavrilo Princip, a member of the secret Serbian-supported movement, Young Bosnia, assassinated the heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne, Archduke Franz Ferdinand, in Sarajevo—an event that was the spark that set off World War I. At the end of the war, the Bosniaks had lost more men per capita than any other ethnic group in the Habsburg Empire whilst serving in the Bosnian-Herzegovinian Infantry (known as \"Bosniaken\") of the Austro-Hungarian Army. Nonetheless, Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole managed to escape the conflict relatively unscathed.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian authorities established an auxiliary militia known as the Schutzkorps with a moot role in the empire's policy of anti-Serb repression. Schutzkorps, predominantly recruited among the Muslim (Bosniak) population, were tasked with hunting down rebel Serbs (the \"Chetniks\" and \"Komiti\") and became known for their persecution of Serbs particularly in Serb populated areas of eastern Bosnia, where they partly retaliated against Serbian Chetniks who in fall 1914 had carried out attacks against the Muslim population in the area. The proceedings of the Austro-Hungarian authorities led to around 5,500 citizens of Serb ethnicity in Bosnia and Herzegovina being arrested, and between 700 and 2,200 died in prison while 460 were executed. Around 5,200 Serb families were forcibly expelled from Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nFollowing World War I, Bosnia and Herzegovina joined the South Slav Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (soon renamed Yugoslavia). Political life in Bosnia at this time was marked by two major trends: social and economic unrest over property redistribution, and formation of several political parties that frequently changed coalitions and alliances with parties in other Yugoslav regions.\n\nThe dominant ideological conflict of the Yugoslav state, between Croatian regionalism and Serbian centralization, was approached differently by Bosnia's major ethnic groups and was dependent on the overall political atmosphere. The political reforms brought about in the newly established Yugoslavian kingdom saw few benefits for the Bosniaks; according to the 1910 final census of land ownership and population according to religious affiliation conducted in Austro-Hungary, Muslims (Bosniaks) owned 91.1%, Orthodox Serbians owned 6.0%, Croatian Catholics owned 2.6% and others, 0.3% of the property. Following the reforms Bosnian Muslims were dispossessed of a total of 1,175,305 hectares of agricultural and forest land.\n\nAlthough the initial split of the country into 33 oblasts erased the presence of traditional geographic entities from the map, the efforts of Bosnian politicians such as Mehmed Spaho ensured the six oblasts carved up from Bosnia and Herzegovina corresponded to the six sanjaks from Ottoman times and, thus, matched the country's traditional boundary as a whole.\n\nThe establishment of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929, however, brought the redrawing of administrative regions into banates or \"banovinas\" that purposely avoided all historical and ethnic lines, removing any trace of a Bosnian entity. Serbo-Croat tensions over the structuring of the Yugoslav state continued, with the concept of a separate Bosnian division receiving little or no consideration.\n\nThe Cvetković-Maček Agreement that created the Croatian banate in 1939 encouraged what was essentially a partition of Bosnia between Croatia and Serbia. However the rising threat of Adolf Hitler's Nazi Germany forced Yugoslav politicians to shift their attention. Following a period that saw attempts at appeasement, the signing of the Tripartite Treaty, and a coup d'état, Yugoslavia was finally invaded by Germany on 6 April 1941.\n\nOnce the kingdom of Yugoslavia was conquered by Nazi forces in World War II, all of Bosnia was ceded to the Nazi puppet regime, the Independent State of Croatia (NDH). The NDH leaders embarked on a campaign of extermination of Serbs, Jews, Romani as well as dissident Croats, and, later, Josip Broz Tito's Partisans by setting up a number of death camps.\n\nAn estimated 209,000 Serbs and Montenegrins were killed on the territory of Bosnia–Herzegovina during the war. The Ustaše recognized both Roman Catholicism and Islam as the national religions, but held the position Eastern Orthodoxy, as a symbol of Serbian identity, was their greatest foe. Although Croats were by far the largest ethnic group to constitute the Ustaše, the Vice President of the NDH and leader of the Yugoslav Muslim Organization Džafer Kulenović was a Muslim, and Muslims (Bosniaks) in total constituted nearly 12% of the Ustaše military and civil service authority.\n\nMany Serbs themselves took up arms and joined the Chetniks, a Serb nationalist movement with the aim of establishing an ethnically homogeneous 'Greater Serbian' state.\n\nThe Chetniks, in turn, persecuted and killed a large number of non-Serbs and Communist sympathizers, with the Muslim population of Bosnia, Herzegovina and Sandžak being a primary target. Once captured, Muslim villagers were systematically massacred by the Chetniks. Of the 75,000 Muslims who lost their lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war, approximately 30,000 (mostly civilians) were killed by the Chetniks.\n\nA percentage of Muslims served in Nazi \"Waffen-SS\" units. Between 64,000 and 79,000 Bosnian Croats were killed between April 1941 to May 1945. Of these, about 18,000 were killed by the Chetniks.\n\nOn 12 October 1941, a group of 108 prominent Sarajevan Muslims signed the Resolution of Sarajevo Muslims by which they condemned the persecution of Serbs organized by the Ustaše, made distinction between Muslims who participated in such persecutions and the Muslim population as a whole, presented information about the persecutions of Muslims by Serbs, and requested security for all citizens of the country, regardless of their identity.\n\nStarting in 1941, Yugoslav communists under the leadership of Josip Broz Tito organized their own multi-ethnic resistance group, the partisans, who fought against both Axis and Chetnik forces. On 29 November 1943 the Anti-Fascist Council of National Liberation of Yugoslavia with Tito at its helm held a founding conference in Jajce where Bosnia and Herzegovina was reestablished as a republic within the Yugoslavian federation in its Habsburg borders.\n\nMilitary success eventually prompted the Allies to support the Partisans, resulting in the successful Maclean Mission, but Tito declined their offer to help and relied on his own forces instead. All the major military offensives by the antifascist movement of Yugoslavia against Nazis and their local supporters were conducted in Bosnia–Herzegovina and its peoples bore the brunt of fighting. More than 300,000 people died in Bosnia and Herzegovina in World War II. At the end of the war the establishment of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with the constitution of 1946, officially made Bosnia and Herzegovina one of six constituent republics in the new state.\n\nDue to its central geographic position within the Yugoslavian federation, post-war Bosnia was selected as a base for the development of the military defense industry. This contributed to a large concentration of arms and military personnel in Bosnia; a significant factor in the war that followed the break-up of Yugoslavia in the 1990s. However, Bosnia's existence within Yugoslavia, for the large part, was a peaceful and very prosperous country, with high employment, a strong industrial and export oriented economy, good education system and social and medical security for every citizen of S. R. Bosnia and Herzegovina. Several international corporations operated in Bosnia— Volkswagen (car factory in Sarajevo, from 1972), Coca-Cola (from 1975), SKF Sweden (from 1967), Marlboro, (a tobacco factory in Sarajevo), and Holiday Inn hotels. Sarajevo was the site of the 1984 Winter Olympics.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s Bosnia was a political backwater of the Republic of Yugoslavia. In the 1970s a strong Bosnian political elite arose, fueled in part by Tito's leadership in the Non-Aligned Movement and Bosnians serving in Yugoslavia's diplomatic corps. While working within the Socialist system, politicians such as Džemal Bijedić, Branko Mikulić and Hamdija Pozderac reinforced and protected the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Their efforts proved key during the turbulent period following Tito's death in 1980, and are today considered some of the early steps towards Bosnian independence. However, the republic did not escape the increasingly nationalistic climate of the time. With the fall of communism and the start of the break-up of Yugoslavia, doctrine of tolerance began to lose its potency, creating an opportunity for nationalist elements in the society to spread their influence.\n\nOn 18 November 1990, multi-party parliamentary elections were held throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. A second round followed on 25 November, resulting in a national assembly where communist power was replaced by a coalition of three ethnically-based parties. Following Slovenia and Croatia's declarations of independence from Yugoslavia, a significant split developed among the residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issue of whether to remain within Yugoslavia (overwhelmingly favored by Serbs) or seek independence (overwhelmingly favored by Bosniaks and Croats).\n\nThe Serb members of parliament, consisting mainly of the Serb Democratic Party members, abandoned the central parliament in Sarajevo, and formed the Assembly of the Serb People of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 24 October 1991, which marked the end of the tri-ethnic coalition that governed after the elections in 1990. This Assembly established the Serbian Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 9 January 1992, which was renamed Republika Srpska in August 1992. On 18 November 1991, the party branch in Bosnia and Herzegovina of the ruling party in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ), proclaimed the existence of the Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia, with the Croatian Defence Council (HVO) as its military branch. It went unrecognized by the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which declared it illegal.\n\nA declaration of the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 15 October 1991 was followed by a referendum for independence on 29 February/1 March 1992, which was boycotted by the great majority of Serbs. The turnout in the independence referendum was 63.4 percent and 99.7 percent of voters voted for independence. Bosnia and Herzegovina declared independence on 3 March 1992 and received international recognition the following month on 6 April 1992. The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina was subsequently admitted as a member state of the United Nations on 22 May 1992. Serbian leader Slobodan Milošević and Croatian leader Franjo Tuđman are believed to have agreed on a partition of Bosnia and Herzegovina in March 1991, with the aim of establishing Greater Serbia and Greater Croatia.\n\nFollowing Bosnia and Herzegovina's declaration of independence, Bosnian Serb militias mobilized in different parts of the country. Government forces were poorly equipped and unprepared for the war. International recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina increased diplomatic pressure for the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) to withdraw from the republic's territory, which they officially did in June 1992. The Bosnian Serb members of the JNA simply changed insignia, formed the Army of Republika Srpska (VRS), and continued fighting. Armed and equipped from JNA stockpiles in Bosnia, supported by volunteers and various paramilitary forces from Serbia, and receiving extensive humanitarian, logistical and financial support from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Republika Srpska's offensives in 1992 managed to place much of the country under its control. The Bosnian Serb advance was accompanied by the ethnic cleansing of Bosniaks and Bosnian Croats from VRS-controlled areas. Dozens of concentration camps were established in which inmates were subjected to violence and abuse, including rape. The ethnic cleansing culminated in the Srebrenica massacre of more than 8,000 Bosniak men and boys in July 1995, which was ruled to have been a genocide by the ICTY. Bosniak and Bosnian Croat forces also committed war crimes against civilians from different ethnic groups, though on a smaller scale. Most of the Bosniak and Croat atrocities were committed during the Bosniak-Croat war, a sub-conflict of the Bosnian War that pitted the ARBiH against the HVO. The Bosniak-Croat conflict ended in March 1994, with the signing of the Washington Agreement, leading to the creation of a joint Bosniak-Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which amalgamated HVO-held territory with that held by the ARBiH.\n\nFollowing the Srebrenica massacre, NATO launched a bombing campaign against Republika Srpska in August 1995. The bombing, together with a joint HV/HVO/ARBiH ground offensive in western Bosnia, convinced the Bosnian Serb leadership to consider a negotiated settlement, which manifested itself in the Dayton Agreement of December 1995. It brought an end to active combat and roughly established the basic political structure of the present-day state. A NATO-led peacekeeping force was immediately dispatched to the country to enforce the agreement. An estimated 100,000 people were killed in the war, about two-thirds of whom were Bosniak. An additional 2.2 million citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina of all ethnicities were displaced. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) has ruled the conflict involved the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (subsequently Serbia and Montenegro), as well as Croatia. Dozens of Bosnian Serb officials and soldiers have been convicted for their role in war crimes and crimes against humanity during the conflict, as well as for the genocide in Srebrenica. Several high-ranking Croat and Bosniak officials have also been convicted. Victims' remains continue to be unearthed. After the war, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina brought a lawsuit against Serbia before the International Court of Justice (ICJ), accusing the country of genocide. In 2007, the ICJ exonerated Serbia of direct responsibility for the genocide committed by Bosnian Serb forces in Srebrenica, but concluded the country had not done enough to prevent the massacre.\n\nOn 4 February 2014, the protests against the government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one of the country's two entities, dubbed the Bosnian Spring, the name being taken from the Arab Spring, began in the northern town of Tuzla. Workers from several factories that had been privatised and had gone bankrupt united to demand action over jobs, and unpaid salaries and pensions. Soon protests spread to the rest of the Federation, with violent clashes reported in close to 20 towns, the biggest of which were Sarajevo, Zenica, Mostar, Bihać, Brčko and Tuzla. The Bosnian news media reported hundreds of people had been injured during the protests, including dozens of police officers, with bursts of violence in Sarajevo, in the northern city of Tuzla, in Mostar in the south, and in Zenica in central Bosnia. The same level of unrest or activism did not occur in the Republika Srpska, but hundreds of people also gathered in support of protests in the town of Banja Luka against its separate government.\n\nThe protests marked the largest outbreak of public anger over high unemployment and two decades of political inertia in the country since the end of the Bosnian War in 1995.\n\nBosnia is in the western Balkans, bordering Croatia () to the north and west, Serbia () to the east, and Montenegro () to the southeast. It has a coastline about long surrounding the city of Neum. It lies between latitudes 42° and 46° N, and longitudes 15° and 20° E.\nThe country's name comes from the two alleged regions Bosnia and Herzegovina whose border was never defined. Historically, Bosnia's official name never included any of its many regions until the Austria-Hungarian occupation.\n\nThe country is mostly mountainous, encompassing the central Dinaric Alps. The northeastern parts reach into the Pannonian Plain, while in the south it borders the Adriatic. The Dinaric Alps generally run in a southeast-northwest direction, and get higher towards the south. The highest point of the country is the peak of Maglić at , on the Montenegrin border. Major mountains include Kozara, Grmeč, Vlašić, Čvrsnica, Prenj, Romanija, Jahorina, Bjelašnica and Treskavica. The geological composition of the Dinaric chain of mountains in Bosnia consists primarily of limestone (including Mesozoic limestone), with deposits of iron, coal, zinc, manganese, bauxite, lead, and salt present in some areas, especially in central and northern Bosnia.\n\nOverall, close to 50% of Bosnia and Herzegovina is forested. Most forest areas are in the centre, east and west parts of Bosnia. Herzegovina has drier Mediterranean climate, with dominant karst topography. Northern Bosnia (Posavina) contains very fertile agricultural land along the River Sava and the corresponding area is heavily farmed. This farmland is a part of the Pannonian Plain stretching into neighboring Croatia and Serbia. The country has only of coastline, around the town of Neum in the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton. Although the city is surrounded by Croatian peninsulas, by international law, Bosnia and Herzegovina has a right of passage to the outer sea.\n\nSarajevo is the capital and largest city. Other major cities are Banja Luka and Bihać in the northwest region known as Bosanska Krajina, Bijeljina and Tuzla in the northeast, Zenica in the central part of Bosnia and Mostar, the largest city in Herzegovina.\n\nThere are seven major rivers in Bosnia and Herzegovina:\n\n\nPhytogeographically, Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to the Boreal Kingdom and is shared between the Illyrian province of the Circumboreal Region and Adriatic province of the Mediterranean Region. According to the World Wide Fund for Nature, the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina can be subdivided into three ecoregions: the Pannonian mixed forests, Dinaric Mountains mixed forests and Illyrian deciduous forests.\n\nThe Politics of Bosnia and Herzegovina takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democracy, whereby executive power is exercised by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Legislative power is vested in both the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Members of the Parliamentary Assembly are chosen according to a proportional representation system.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina is a liberal democracy. It has several levels of political structuring, according to the Dayton accord. The most important of these levels is the division of the country into two entities: Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina covers 51% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's total area, while Republika Srpska covers 49%. The entities, based largely on the territories held by the two warring sides at the time, were formally established by the Dayton peace agreement in 1995 because of the tremendous changes in Bosnia and Herzegovina's ethnic structure. Since 1996, the power of the entities relative to the State government has decreased significantly. Nonetheless, entities still have numerous powers to themselves.\n\nThe Brčko District in the north of the country was created in 2000, out of land from both entities. It officially belongs to both, but is governed by neither, and functions under a decentralized system of local government. For election purposes, Brčko District voters can choose to participate in either the Federation or Republika Srpska elections. The Brčko District has been praised for maintaining a multiethnic population and a level of prosperity significantly above the national average.\n\nThe third level of Bosnia and Herzegovina's political subdivision is manifested in cantons. They are unique to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina entity, which consists of ten of them. Each has a cantonal government, which is under the law of the Federation as a whole. Some cantons are ethnically mixed and have special laws to ensure the equality of all constituent people.\n\nThe fourth level of political division in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the municipality. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is divided into 74 municipalities, and Republika Srpska into 63. Municipalities also have their own local government, and are typically based on the most significant city or place in their territory. As such, many municipalities have a long tradition and history with their present boundaries. Some others, however, were only created following the recent war after traditional municipalities were split by the Inter-Entity Boundary Line. Each canton in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of several municipalities, which are divided into local communities.\n\nBesides entities, cantons, and municipalities, Bosnia and Herzegovina also has four \"official\" cities. These are: Banja Luka, Mostar, Sarajevo, and East Sarajevo. The territory and government of the cities of Banja Luka and Mostar corresponds to the municipalities of the same name, while the cities of Sarajevo and East Sarajevo officially consist of several municipalities. Cities have their own city government whose power is in between that of the municipalities and cantons (or the entity, in the case of Republika Srpska).\n\nAs a result of the Dayton Accords, the civilian peace implementation is supervised by the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina selected by the Peace Implementation Council. The High Representative has many governmental and legislative powers, including the dismissal of elected and non-elected officials. More recently, several central institutions have been established (such as defense ministry, security ministry, state court, indirect taxation service and so on) in the process of transferring part of the jurisdiction from the entities to the state. The representation of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina is by elites who represent the country's three major groups, with each having a guaranteed share of power.\n\nThe Chair of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina rotates among three members (Bosniak, Serb, Croat), each elected as the Chair for an eight-month term within their four-year term as a member. The three members of the Presidency are elected directly by the people with Federation voters voting for the Bosniak and the Croat, and the Republika Srpska voters for the Serb.\n\nThe Chair of the Council of Ministers is nominated by the Presidency and approved by the House of Representatives. He or she is then responsible for appointing a Foreign Minister, Minister of Foreign Trade, and others as appropriate.\n\nThe Parliamentary Assembly is the lawmaking body in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It consists of two houses: the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. The House of Peoples has 15 delegates chosen by parliaments of the entities, two-thirds of which come from the Federation (5 Croat and 5 Bosniaks) and one-third from the Republika Srpska (5 Serbs). The House of Representatives is composed of 42 Members elected by the people under a form of proportional representation (PR), two-thirds elected from the Federation and one-third elected from the Republika Srpska.\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the supreme, final arbiter of legal matters. It is composed of nine members: four members are selected by the House of Representatives of the Federation, two by the Assembly of the Republika Srpska, and three by the President of the European Court of Human Rights after consultation with the Presidency, but cannot be Bosnian citizens.\n\nHowever, the highest political authority in the country is the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chief executive officer for the international civilian presence in the country and is selected by the European Union. Since 1995, the High Representative has been able to bypass the elected parliamentary assembly, and since 1997 has been able to remove elected officials. The methods selected by the High Representative have been criticized as undemocratic. International supervision is to end when the country is deemed politically and democratically stable and self-sustaining.\n\nThe Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (OSBiH) were unified into a single entity in 2005, with the merger of the Army of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Army of Republika Srpska, which had defended their respective regions. The Ministry of Defense was founded in 2004.\n\nThe Bosnian military consists of the Bosnian Ground Forces and Air Force and Air Defense. The Ground Forces number 14,725 active and 7,000 reserve personnel. They are armed with a mix of American, Yugoslavian, Soviet, and European-made weaponry, vehicles, and military equipment. The Air Force and Air Defense Forces have 3,000 personnel and about 62 aircraft. The Air Defense Forces operate MANPADS hand-held missiles, surface-to-air missile (SAM) batteries, anti-aircraft cannons, and radar. The Army has recently adopted remodeled MARPAT uniforms, used by Bosnian soldiers serving with ISAF in Afghanistan. A domestic production program is now underway to ensure that army units are equipped with the correct ammunition.\n\nBeginning in 2007, the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina undertook the army's first ever international assistance mission, enlisting the military to serve with ISAF peace missions to Afghanistan, Iraq and the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2007. Five officers, acting as officers/advisors, served in the Democratic Republic of Congo. 45 soldiers, mostly acting as base security and medical assistants, served in Afghanistan. 85 Bosnian soldiers served as base security in Iraq, occasionally conducting infantry patrols there as well. All three deployed groups have been commended by their respective international forces as well as the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The international assistance operations are still ongoing.\n\nThe Air Force and Anti-Aircraft Defence Brigade of Bosnia and Herzegovina was formed when elements of the Army of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska Air Force were merged in 2006. The Air Force has seen improvements in the last few years with added funds for aircraft repairs and improved cooperation with the Ground Forces as well as to the citizens of the country. The Ministry of Defense of Bosnia and Herzegovina is pursuing the acquisition of new aircraft including helicopters and perhaps even fighter jets.\n\nEU integration is one of the main political objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina; it initiated the Stabilisation and Association Process in 2007. Countries participating in the SAP have been offered the possibility to become, once they fulfill the necessary conditions, Member States of the EU. Bosnia and Herzegovina is therefore a potential candidate country for EU accession.\n\nThe implementation of the Dayton Accords of 1995 has focused the efforts of policymakers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the international community, on regional stabilization in the countries-successors of the former Yugoslavia.\n\nWithin Bosnia and Herzegovina, relations with its neighbors of Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro have been fairly stable since the signing of the Dayton Agreement in 1995. On 23 April 2010, Bosnia and Herzegovina received the Membership Action Plan from NATO, which is the last step before full membership in the alliance. Full membership was expected in 2014 or 2015, depending on the progress of reforms.\n\nAccording to the 1991 census, Bosnia and Herzegovina had a population of 4,377,000, while the 1996 UNHCR unofficial census showed a decrease to 3,920,000. Large population migrations during the Yugoslav wars in the 1990s have caused demographic shifts in the country. Between 1991 and 2013, political disagreements made it impossible to organize a census. A census had been planned for 2011, and then for 2012, but was delayed until October 2013. The 2013 census found a total population of 3,791,622 people in 1.16 million households; 585,411 fewer people than the 1991 census.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina is home to three ethnic \"constituent peoples\", who are Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats, plus a number of smaller groups including Jews and Roma. According to data from 2013 census published by the Agency for Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosniaks constitute 50.11% of the population, Serbs 30.78%, Croats 15.43%, and others form 2.73%, with the remaining respondents not declaring their ethnicity or not answering. The census results are contested by the Republika Srpska statistical office and by Bosnian Serb politicians. The dispute over the census concerns the inclusion of non-permanent Bosnian residents in the figures, which Republika Srpska officials oppose. The European Union's statistics office, Eurostat, concluded in May 2016 that the census methodology used by the Bosnian statistical agency is in line with international recommendations.\n\nAccording to the 2013 census, Islam is the majority faith in Bosnia and Herzegovina, making up 51% of the population with Sunni Muslims making up 38% and the rest are either Shia or follow other dominations or don't identify with any domination. 46% of the population identify as Christian; of these, the Serbian Orthodox Church makes up the largest group, accounting for 31% of the population (of whom most identify as Serbs), and the Roman Catholic Church 15% (of whom most identify as Croats). The smallest groups are Agnosticism 0.3%, Atheism 0.8% and other 1.15%, with the remainder not declaring their religion or not answering 1.1%. A 2012 survey found 54% of Bosnia's Muslims are non-denominational Muslims, while 38% follow Sunnism.\n\nBosnia's constitution does not specify any official languages. However, academics Hilary Footitt and Michael Kelly note the Dayton Agreement states it is \"done in Bosnian, Croatian, English and Serbian\", and they describe this as the \"de facto recognition of three official languages\" at the state level. The equal status of Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian was verified by the Constitutional Court in 2000. It ruled the provisions of the Federation and Republika Srpska constitutions on language were incompatible with the state constitution, since they only recognised \"Bosniak\" and Croatian (in the case of the Federation) and Serbian (in the case of Republika Srpska) as official languages at the entity level. As a result, the wording of the entity constitutions was changed and all three languages were made official in both entities. The three standard languages are fully mutually intelligible and are known collectively under the appellation of Serbo-Croatian, despite this term not being formally recognized in the country. Use of one of the three languages has become a marker of ethnic identity. Michael Kelly and Catherine Baker argue: \"The three official languages of today's Bosnian state...represent the symbolic assertion of national identity over the pragmatism of mutual intelligibility\".\n\nAccording to the 1992 European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, Bosnia and Herzegovina recognizes the following minority languages: Albanian, Montenegrin, Czech, Italian, Hungarian, Macedonian, German, Polish, Romani, Romanian, Rusyn, Slovak, Slovene, Turkish, Ukrainian and Jewish (Yiddish and Ladino). The German minority in Bosnia and Herzegovina are mostly remnants of Donauschwaben (Danube Swabians), who settled in the area after the Habsburg monarchy claimed the Balkans from the Ottoman Empire. Due to expulsions and (forced) assimilation after the two World Wars, the number of ethnic Germans in Bosnia and Herzegovina was drastically diminished.\n\nIn a 2013 census, 52.86% of the population consider their mother tongue Bosnian, 30.76% Serbian, 14.6% Croatian and 1.57% another language, with 0.21% not giving an answer.\n\nSarajevo is home to 395,133 inhabitants in its urban area which comprises the City of Sarajevo as well as municipalities of Ilidža, Vogošća, Istočna Ilidža, Istočno Novo Sarajevo and Istočni Stari Grad. The metro area has a population of 555,210 and includes Sarajevo Canton, East Sarajevo and municipalities Breza, Kiseljak, Kreševo and Visoko.\n\nBosnia faces the dual-problem of rebuilding a war-torn country and introducing transitional liberal market reforms to its formerly mixed economy. One legacy of the previous era is a strong industry; under former republic president Džemal Bijedić and SFRY President Josip Broz Tito, metal industries were promoted in the republic, resulting in the development of a large share of Yugoslavia's plants; S.R. Bosnia and Herzegovina had a very strong industrial export oriented economy in the 1970s and 1980s, with large scale exports worth millions of US$.\n\nFor most of Bosnia's history, agriculture has been conducted on privately owned farms; Fresh food has traditionally been exported from the republic.\n\nThe war in the 1990s, caused a dramatic change in the Bosnian economy. GDP fell by 60% and the destruction of physical infrastructure devastated the economy. With much of the production capacity unrestored, the Bosnian economy still faces considerable difficulties. Figures show GDP and per capita income increased 10% from 2003 to 2004; this and Bosnia's shrinking national debt being negative trends, and high unemployment 38.7% and a large trade deficit remain cause for concern.\n\nThe national currency is the (Euro-pegged) Convertible Mark (KM), controlled by the currency board. Annual inflation is the lowest relative to other countries in the region at 1.9% in 2004. The international debt was $5.1 billion (as on 31 December 2014) . Real GDP growth rate was 5% for 2004 according to the Bosnian Central Bank of BiH and Statistical Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina has displayed positive progress in the previous years, which decisively moved its place from the lowest income equality rank of income equality rankings fourteen out of 193 nations.\n\nAccording to Eurostat data, Bosnia and Herzegovina's PPS GDP per capita stood at 29 per cent of the EU average in 2010.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund (IMF) announced a loan to Bosnia worth US$500 million to be delivered by Stand-By Arrangement. This was scheduled to be approved in September 2012.\n\nOverall value of foreign direct investment (1999–2014)\n\n\nThe top investor countries (May 1994 – December 2013)\n\nForeign investments by sector for (May 1994 – December 2013)\n\nThe United States Embassy in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina produces the Country Commercial Guide – an annual report that delivers a comprehensive look at Bosnia and Herzegovina's commercial and economic environment, using economic, political, and market analysis. It can be viewed on Embassy Sarajevo’s website.\n\nBy some estimates, grey economy is 25.5% of GDP.\n\nIn 2017, exports grew by 17% when compared to the previous year, totaling €5.65 billion. The total volume of foreign trade in 2017 amounted to €14.97 billion and increased by 14% compared to the previous year. Imports of goods increased by 12% and amounted to €9.32 billion. The coverage of imports by exports has increased by 3% compared to the previous year and now it is 61 percent. In 2017, Bosnia and Herzegovina mostly exported car seats, electricity, processed wood, aluminum and furniture. In the same year, it mostly imported crude oil, automobiles, motor oil, coal and briquettes.\n\nThe unemployment rate in 2017 was 20.5%, but The Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies is predicting falling unemployment rate for the next few years. In 2018, the unemployment should be 19.4% and it should further fall to 18.8% in 2019. In 2020, the unemployment rate should go down to 18.3%.\n\nOn December 31, 2017, Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina issued the report on public debt of Bosnia and Herzegovina, stating the public debt was reduced by €389.97 million, or by more than 6% when compared to December 31, 2016. By the end of 2017, public debt was €5.92 billion, which amounted to 35.6 percent of GDP.\n\n, there were 32,292 registered companies in the country, which together had revenues of €33.572 billion that same year.\n\nIn 2017, the country received €397.35 million in foreign direct investment, which equals to 2.5% of the GDP.\n\nIn 2017, Bosnia and Herzegovina ranked 3rd in the world in terms of the number of new jobs created by foreign investment, relative to the number of inhabitants.\n\nIn the first nine months of 2018, Bosnia and Herzegovina exported goods worth 8.809 billion KM (€4.508 billion), which is 8.8% higher than in the same period in 2017, while imports amounted to 14.287 billion KM (€7.31 billion), which is 6.9% higher.\n\nThe average price of new apartments sold in the country in the first 6 months of 2018 is 1,639 km (€886.31) per square meter. This represents a jump of 3.5% from the previous year.\n\nOn June 30, 2018, public debt of Bosnia and Herzegovina amounted to about €6.04 billion, of which external debt is 70.56 percent, while the internal debt is 29.4 percent of total public indebtedness. The share of public debt in gross domestic product is 34.92 percent.\n\nIn the first 7 months of 2018, 811,660 tourists visited the country, a 12.2% jump when compared to the first 7 months of 2017.\n\nIn the first 9 months of 2018, 1,153,704 tourists visited Bosnia-Herzegovina, an increase of 12.4%, and had 2,435,340 overnight hotel stays, a 14% increase from the previous year. Also, 72.2% of the tourists came from foreign countries.\n\nSarajevo International Airport , also known as \"Butmir Airport\", is the main international airport in Bosnia and Herzegovina, located southwest of the railway station in the city of Sarajevo in the suburb of Butmir.\n\nRailway operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina are successors of the Yugoslav Railways within the country boundaries following independence from the Former Yugoslavia in 1992.\n\nThe Bosnian communications market was fully liberalised in January 2006. There are three landline telephone providers, although each one predominantly serves a partile services are provided by three operators, with nationwide services. Mobile data services are also available, including high-speed EDGE and 3G services.\n\n\"Oslobođenje\" (Liberation), founded in 1943, is one of the country's longest running continuously circulating newspapers. There are many national publications, only some of which include the \"Dnevni Avaz\" (Daily Voice), founded in 1995, and \"Jutarnje Novine\" (Morning News) in circulation in Sarajevo. Other local periodicals include the Croatian newspaper Hrvatska riječ and the Bosnian magazine Start, as well as the weekly newspapers \"Slobodna Bosna\" (\"Free Bosnia\") and \"BH Dani\" (\"BH Days\"). \"Novi Plamen\", a monthly magazine, is the most left-wing publication. The international news station Al Jazeera maintains a sister channel that caters to the Balkan region, Al Jazeera Balkans, broadcasting out of and based in Sarajevo. Since 2014, the N1 platform began broadcasting as an affiliate of CNN International and has headquarters in Sarajevo, Zagreb, and Belgrade.\n\nAdditionally, the country is the most liberal in terms of freedom of the press in the region, ranking 43rd internationally.\n\n, there are 3,064,072 internet users in the country or 86.77% of the entire population.\n\nAccording to projections by the World Tourism Organization, Bosnia and Herzegovina will have the third highest tourism growth rate in the world between 1995 and 2020.\n\nIn 2017, 1,307,319 tourists visited Bosnia and Herzegovina, an increase of 13.7%, and had 2,677,125 overnight hotel stays, a 12.3% increase from the previous year. 71.5% of the tourists came from foreign countries.\n\nIn 2006, when ranking the best cities in the world, Lonely Planet placed Sarajevo, the national capital and host of the 1984 Winter Olympic Games, as #43, ahead of Dubrovnik at #59, Ljubljana at #84, Bled at #90, Belgrade at #113, and Zagreb at #135. Tourism in Sarajevo is chiefly focused on historical, religious, and cultural aspects. In 2010, Lonely Planet's \"Best In Travel\" nominated it as one of the top ten cities to visit that year. Sarajevo also won travel blog Foxnomad's \"Best City to Visit\" competition in 2012, beating more than one hundred other cities around the entire world.\n\nMeđugorje has become one of the most popular pilgrimage sites for Christians in the world and has turned into Europe's third most important religious place, where each year more than 1 million people visit. It has been estimated that 30 million pilgrims have come to Međugorje since the reputed apparitions began in 1981.\n\nBosnia has also become an increasingly popular skiing and Ecotourism destination. Bosnia and Herzegovina remains one of the last undiscovered natural regions of the southern area of the Alps, with vast tracts of wild and untouched nature attracting adventurers and nature lovers. National Geographic magazine named Bosnia and Herzegovina as the best mountain biking adventure destination for 2012. The central Bosnian Dinaric Alps are favored by hikers and mountaineers, containing both Mediterranean and Alpine climates. Whitewater rafting is somewhat of a national pastime, with three rivers, including the deepest river canyon in Europe, the Tara River Canyon.\n\nMost recently, the \"Huffington Post\" named Bosnia and Herzegovina the \"9th Greatest Adventure in the World for 2013\", adding that the country boasts \"the cleanest water and air in Europe; the greatest untouched forests; and the most wildlife. The best way to experience is the three rivers trip, which purls through the best the Balkans have to offer.\"\n\nSome of the tourist attractions in Bosnia and Herzegovina include:\n\nHigher education has a long and rich tradition in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first bespoke higher-education institution was a school of Sufi philosophy established by Gazi Husrev-beg in 1531. Numerous other religious schools then followed. In 1887, under the Austro-Hungarian Empire, a Sharia law school began a five-year program. In the 1940s the University of Sarajevo became the city's first secular higher education institute. In the 1950s post-bachelaurate graduate degrees became available. Severely damaged during the war, it was recently rebuilt in partnership with more than 40 other universities. There are various other institutions of higher education, including: University \"Džemal Bijedić\" of Mostar, University of Banja Luka, University of Mostar, University of East Sarajevo, University of Tuzla, American University in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Academy of Sciences and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is held in high regard as one of the most prestigious creative arts academies in the region.\n\nAlso, Bosnia and Herzegovina is home to several private and international higher education institutions, some of which are:\n\n\nPrimary schooling lasts for nine years. Secondary education is provided by general and technical secondary schools (typically Gymnasiums) where studies typically last for four years. All forms of secondary schooling include an element of vocational training. Pupils graduating from general secondary schools obtain the Matura and can enroll in any tertiary educational institution or academy by passing a qualification examination prescribed by the governing body or institution. Students graduating technical subjects obtain a Diploma.\n\nThe architecture of Bosnia and Herzegovina is largely influenced by four major periods where political and social changes influenced the creation of distinct cultural and architectural habits of the population. Each period made its influence felt and contributed to a greater diversity of cultures and architectural language in this region.\n\nSome television, magazines, and newspapers in Bosnia and Herzegovina are state-owned, and some are for-profit corporations funded by advertising, subscription, and other sales-related revenues. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina guarantees freedom of speech.\n\nAs a country in transition with a post-war legacy and a complex domestic political structure Bosnia and Herzegovina's media system is under transformation. In the early post-war period (1995–2005), media development was guided mainly by international donors and cooperation agencies, who invested to help reconstruct, diversify, democratize and professionalize media outlets.\n\nPost-war developments included the establishment of an independent Communication Regulatory Agency, the adoption of a Press Code, the establishment of the Press Council, the decriminalization of label and defamation, the introduction of a rather advanced Freedom of Access to Information Law, and the creation of a Public Service Broadcasting System from the formerly state-owned broadcaster.\nYet, internationally backed positive developments have been often obstructed by domestic elites, and the professionalisation of media and journalists has proceeded only slowly. High levels of partisanship and linkages between the media and the political systems hinder the adherence to professional code of conducts.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina has a rich literature, including the Nobel prize winner Ivo Andrić and poets such as Croat Antun Branko Šimić, Aleksa Šantić, Jovan Dučić and Mak Dizdar, writers such as Zlatko Topčić, Meša Selimović, Semezdin Mehmedinović, Miljenko Jergović, Isak Samokovlija, Safvet beg Bašagić, Abdulah Sidran, Petar Kočić, Aleksandar Hemon, and Nedžad Ibrišimović. The National Theater was founded 1919 in Sarajevo and its first director was the dramatist Branislav Nušić.\nMagazines such as \"Novi Plamen\" or \"Sarajevske sveske\" are some of the more prominent publications covering cultural and literary themes.\n\nThe art of Bosnia and Herzegovina was always evolving and ranged from the original medieval tombstones called Stećci to paintings in Kotromanić court. However, only with the arrival of Austro-Hungarians did the painting renaissance in Bosnia really begin to flourish. The first educated artists from European academies appeared with the beginning of the 20th century. Among those are: Gabrijel Jurkić, Petar Šain, Roman Petrović and Lazar Drljača.\n\nAfter World War II artists like Mersad Berber and Safet Zec rose in popularity.\n\nIn 2007, Ars Aevi, a museum of contemporary art that includes works by renowned world artists was founded in Sarajevo.\n\nTypical Bosnian and Herzegovinian songs are \"ganga, rera\", and the traditional Slavic music for the folk dances such as \"kolo\" and from Ottoman era the most popular is sevdalinka. Pop and Rock music has a tradition here as well, with the more famous musicians including Dino Zonić, Goran Bregović, Davorin Popović, Kemal Monteno, Zdravko Čolić, Elvir Laković, Edo Maajka, Hari Mata Hari and Dino Merlin. Other composers such as Đorđe Novković, Al' Dino, Haris Džinović, Kornelije Kovač, and many pop and rock bands, for example, Bijelo Dugme, Crvena Jabuka, Divlje Jagode, Indexi, Plavi Orkestar, Zabranjeno Pušenje, Ambasadori, Dubioza kolektiv, who were among the leading ones in the former Yugoslavia. Bosnia is home to the composer Dušan Šestić, the creator of the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina and father of singer Marija Šestić, to the world known jazz musician, educator and Bosnian jazz ambassador Sinan Alimanović, composer Saša Lošić and pianist Saša Toperić. In the villages, especially in Herzegovina, Bosniaks, Serbs, and Croats play the ancient \"Gusle\". The gusle is used mainly to recite epic poems in a usually dramatic tone.\n\nProbably the most distinctive and identifiably \"Bosnian\" of music, Sevdalinka is a kind of emotional, melancholic folk song that often describes sad subjects such as love and loss, the death of a dear person or heartbreak. Sevdalinkas were traditionally performed with a saz, a Turkish string instrument, which was later replaced by the accordion. However the more modern arrangement, to the derision of some purists, is typically a vocalist accompanied by the accordion along with snare drums, upright bass, guitars, clarinets and violins.\nRural folk traditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina include the shouted, polyphonic ganga and \"ravne pjesme\" (\"flat song\") styles, as well as instruments like a droneless bagpipe, wooden flute and šargija. The gusle, an instrument found throughout the Balkans, is also used to accompany ancient Slavic epic poems. There are also Bosnian folk songs in the Ladino language, derived from the area's Jewish population.\n\n\"Bosnian roots music\" came from Middle Bosnia, Posavina, the Drina valley and Kalesija. It is usually performed by singers with two violinists and a šargija player. These bands first appeared around World War I and became popular in the 1960s. This is the third oldest music following after the sevdalinka and ilahija. Self-taught people, mostly in two or three members of the different choices of old instruments, mostly in the violin, sacking, saz, drums, flutes (zurle) or wooden flute, as others have already called, the original performers of Bosnian music that can not be written notes, transmitted by ear from generation to generation, family is usually hereditary. It is thought to be brought from Persia-Kalesi tribe that settled in the area of present Sprecanski valleys and hence probably the name Kalesija. In this part of Bosnia it is the most common. Again, it became the leader of First World War onwards, as well as 60 years in the field Sprecanski doline. This kind of music was enjoyed by all three peoples in Bosnia, Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs, and it contributed a lot to reconcile people socializing, entertainment and other organizations through festivala. In Kalesija it's maintained each year with the Bosnian Festival Original music.\n\nStudio Kemix firm Dzemal Dzihanovic from Živinice together with his artists brought this kind of music to perfection at the end 20th century. With its entirely new form of modernity, it is most common in the Tuzla Canton and the cradle of this music city Živinice was named Bosnian town of original music. Songs are performed preferably in a diphthong, the first and second voice which is a special secret performance of this music and some performers sing in troglasju as they do Kalesijski triple that was recorded in 1968, as the first written record of the tone on the album, along with Higurashi no naku.\n\nSarajevo is internationally renowned for its eclectic and diverse selection of festivals. The Sarajevo Film Festival was established in 1995, during the Bosnian War and has become the premier and largest film festival in the Balkans and South-East Europe.\n\nBosnia has a rich cinematic and film heritage, dating back to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia; many Bosnian filmmakers have achieved international prominence and some have won international awards ranging from the Academy Awards to multiple Palme d'Ors and Golden Bears. Some notable Bosnian filmmakers, screenwriters and cinematographers are Danis Tanović (known for the Academy Award– and Golden Globe Award–winning 2001 film \"No Man's Land\" and Silver Bear Grand Jury Prize–winning 2016 film \"Death in Sarajevo\"), Emir Kusturica (won two Palme d'Or at Cannes), Jasmila Žbanić (won Golden Bear), Zlatko Topčić, Ademir Kenović, Dino Mustafić, Benjamin Filipović, Jasmin Dizdar, Pjer Žalica, Srđan Vuletić, Aida Begić etc.\n\nBosnian cuisine uses many spices, in moderate quantities. Most dishes are light, as they are cooked in lots of water; the sauces are fully natural, consisting of little more than the natural juices of the vegetables in the dish. Typical ingredients include tomatoes, potatoes, onions, garlic, peppers, cucumbers, carrots, cabbage, mushrooms, spinach, zucchini, dried beans, fresh beans, plums, milk, paprika and cream called Pavlaka. Bosnian cuisine is balanced between Western and Eastern influences. As a result of the Ottoman administration for almost 500 years, Bosnian food is closely related to Turkish, Greek, and other former Ottoman and Mediterranean cuisines. However, because of years of Austrian rule, there are many influences from Central Europe. Typical meat dishes include primarily beef and lamb. Some local specialties are ćevapi, burek, dolma, sarma, pilav, goulash, ajvar and a whole range of Eastern sweets. Ćevapi is a grilled dish of minced meat, a type of kebab, popular in former Yugoslavia and considered a national dish in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. Local wines come from Herzegovina where the climate is suitable for growing grapes. Herzegovinian \"loza\" (similar to Italian Grappa but less sweet) is very popular. Plum (\"rakija\") or apple (\"jabukovača\") alcohol beverages are produced in the north. In the south, distilleries used to produce vast quantities of brandy and supply all of ex-Yugoslav alcohol factories (brandy is the base of most alcoholic drinks).\n\nCoffeehouses, where Bosnian coffee is served in džezva with rahat lokum and sugar cubes, proliferate Sarajevo and every city in the country. Coffee drinking is a favorite Bosnian pastime and part of the culture. Bosnia and Herzegovina is the ninth country in the entire world by per capita coffee consumption.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina has produced many athletes, both as a state in Yugoslavia and independently after 1992. The most important international sporting event in the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina was the 14th Winter Olympics, held in Sarajevo from 7 to 19 February 1984.\nThe Borac handball club has won seven Yugoslav Handball Championships, as well as the European Championship Cup in 1976 and the International Handball Federation Cup in 1991.\n\nAmel Mekić, Bosnian judoka, became European champion in 2011. Track and field athlete Amel Tuka won the bronze medal in 800 metres at the 2015 World Championships and Hamza Alić won the silver medal in shot put at the 2013 European Indoor Championships.\n\nThe Bosna Royal basketball club from Sarajevo were European Champions in 1979. The Yugoslav national basketball team, which won medals in every world championship from 1963 through 1990, included Bosnian players such as FIBA Hall of Famers Dražen Dalipagić and Mirza Delibašić. Bosnia and Herzegovina regularly qualifies for the European Championship in Basketball, with players including Mirza Teletović, Nihad Đedović and Jusuf Nurkić. Bosnia and Herzegovina national u-16 team won two gold medals in 2015, winning both 2015 European Youth Summer Olympic Festival as well as 2015 FIBA Europe Under-16 Championship.\n\nWomen's basketball club Jedinstvo Aida from Tuzla won Women's European Club Championship in 1989 and Ronchetti Cup final in 1990, led by Razija Mujanović, three times best female European basketball player, and Mara Lakić.\n\nThe Bosnian chess team was Champion of Yugoslavia seven times, in addition to club ŠK Bosna winning four European Chess Club Cups. Chess grandmaster Borki Predojević has also won two European Championships. The most impressive success of Bosnian Chess was runner-up position in Chess Olympiad of 1994 in Moscow, featuring Grandmasters Predrag Nikolić, Ivan Sokolov and Bojan Kurajica.\n\nMiddle-weight boxer Marijan Beneš has won several Championships of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yugoslav Championships and the European Championship. In 1978, he won the World Title against Elisha Obed from the Bahamas.\n\nAssociation football is the most popular sport in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It dates from 1903, but its popularity grew significantly after World War I. Bosnian clubs FK Sarajevo and Željezničar, won the Yugoslav Championship, while the Yugoslav national football team included Bosnian players of all ethnic backgrounds and generations, such as Safet Sušić, Zlatko Vujović, Mehmed Baždarević, Davor Jozić, Faruk Hadžibegić, Predrag Pašić, Blaž Slišković, Vahid Halilhodžić, Dušan Bajević, Ivica Osim, Josip Katalinski, Tomislav Knez, Velimir Sombolac and numerous others. The Bosnia and Herzegovina national football team played at the 2014 FIFA World Cup, its first major tournament. Players on the team again includes notable players of all country's ethnic background, such as then and now captains Emir Spahić, Zvjezdan Misimović and Edin Džeko, defenders like Ognjen Vranješ, Sead Kolašinac and Toni Šunjić, midfielders like Miralem Pjanić and Senad Lulić, striker Vedad Ibišević, and so on.\n\nFormer Bosnian footballers include Hasan Salihamidžić, who became only the second Bosnian to ever win a UEFA Champions League trophy, after Elvir Baljić. He made 234 appearances and scored 31 goals for German club FC Bayern Munich. Sergej Barbarez, who played for several clubs in the German Bundesliga including Borussia Dortmund, Hamburger SV and Bayer Leverkusen was joint-top scorer in the 2000–01 Bundesliga season with 22 goals. Meho Kodro spent most of his career playing in Spain most notably with Real Sociedad and FC Barcelona. Elvir Rahimić made 302 appearances for Russian club CSKA Moscow with whom he won the UEFA Cup in 2005. Milena Nikolić, member of women's national team, was 2013–14 UEFA Women's Champions League top scorer.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina was the world champion of volleyball at the 2004 Summer Paralympics and volleyball at the 2012 Summer Paralympics. Many among those on the team lost their legs in the Bosnian War.\n\nTennis is also gaining a lot of popularity after the recent successes of Damir Džumhur and Mirza Bašić at Grand Slam level. Other notable tennis players who represented Bosnia are, Amer Delić and Mervana Jugić-Salkić.\n\n"}
{"id": "23403055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23403055", "title": "Buda Musique", "text": "Buda Musique\n\nBuda Musique is a French record label specializing in world music. The label is especially known for its \"Éthiopiques\" series.\n\nBuda Musique has released over 400 albums in its 18-year history. Notable artists signed to the company include Aster Aweke.\n\n"}
{"id": "12172360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12172360", "title": "Caucasian snow vole", "text": "Caucasian snow vole\n\nThe Caucasian snow vole (\"Chionomys gud\") is a species of rodent in the family Cricetidae.\n\nIt is found in Georgia, Russian Federation, and Turkey.\n\nIts natural habitats are temperate forests and temperate grassland.\n\n"}
{"id": "54952834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54952834", "title": "Cetina culture", "text": "Cetina culture\n\nThe Cetina culture is the name for the culture of the inhabitants of the Middle Dalmatian coast, and especially its hinterland, during the early Bronze Age (1900 to 1600 BC), or, according to Paul Reineck's chronology, Br A1-A2/B1 (2200 BC). It is named after the numerous sites along the Cetina river in Central Dalmatia and Herzegovina. people of this culture were present in caves (Skarin Samograd near Drniš, Gudnja near Ston, Ravlić cave in Drinovci) or in open settlements (Gradac in Kotorac and Krstina near Posušje). The graves are in rocky colonies. In the case of inhumation, they have the shape of a stone chest, while incinerated remains of the deceased are laid in clay pots. \n\nCetina culture emerged early in the early Bronze Age on the eneolite substrate (Adriatic culture); its people belonged to the old Mediterranean population, which was partially Indoeuropeanized but was not Indo-European.\n\nThe largest number of well-known sites of Cetina culture is located in the interior of Dalmatia, primarily between the upper stream of the Cetina river and the lower Neretva river. Individual finds are documented on Central Dalmatian islands, Palagruz, Northern Adriatic, deep in the interior of the Western Balkans, Albania, Southern Italy, and Greece.\n\nSettlements are the least known aspect of Cetina culture. The most significant deposits of Cetina culture were discovered in the Škarin Samograd cave located at the foot of the Mogli brdo, six kilometers northwest of Unešić. The amount of findings collected in other researched settlements, mostly caves, suggests mainly temporary inhabitation. The stratigraphy of Škarin Samograd enabled Ivan Marovic and Borivoj Covic to produce a three-phase periodization of Cetina culture, which is still used.\n\n"}
{"id": "30817804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30817804", "title": "Clepidava", "text": "Clepidava\n\nClepidava () was a Dacian town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40578501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40578501", "title": "Constitution of Prussia (1920)", "text": "Constitution of Prussia (1920)\n\nThe Constitution of Prussia (), was the constitution of the Free State of Prussia. It came into effect on 30 November 1920.\n\nIt established a parliamentary system with a bicameral legislature.\n\n"}
{"id": "58479797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58479797", "title": "Denise Mueller-Korenek", "text": "Denise Mueller-Korenek\n\nDenise Mueller-Korenek (born ) is an American cyclist. she holds the world record for paced bicycle land speed and is considered \"the fastest cyclist on earth\". She set the record on September 16, 2018, at the Bonneville Salt Flats in Utah, by traveling an average of 183.932 mph (296.009 km/h) on a custom-built carbon KHS bicycle behind a custom-built vehicle to minimize air resistance. The previous record, , was set in 1995 by Dutchman Fred Rompelberg. Two years earlier she set the women's bicycle land speed record, pedaling 147.7 mph (237.7 km/h). She is the first and only woman in history to hold the world record, which was first established in 1889.\n\nDenise Mueller was born into a family of daredevils. Her father, Myron Mueller, was an ultra-distance cyclist; he celebrated his 70th birthday by pedaling the entire perimeter of the continental United States, a distance of more than . He is in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" as the oldest person to bicycle that perimeter. Her mother, Anna Dement, raced midget demolition-derby cars. \"In our family, crazy is our sort of normal,\" Denise said. She graduated from San Dieguito High School.\n\nMueller competed as a junior cyclist in her teens and finished in the top three in national and world competitions more than a dozen times. She won national championships in road, track and mountain biking 15 times. She retired in 1992 at age 19. She went to work for her family's security company, eventually becoming president and CEO.\n\nIn 2009, Mueller-Korenek resumed bicycling and running, competing in marathons and Ironman Triathlon competitions. Her trainer, both in her teens and later, is John Howard, a three-time Olympian and holder of the world speed record before Rompelberg. Mueller-Korenek decided to go for the speed record when Howard told her no woman had ever attempted it. She began seriously training to set a new bicycle speed record in 2012. Along the way she won two national titles for her age group. In 2016, she made her first run at the record at the Bonneville Salt Flats. Her speed of established the women's world record.\n\nIn paced bicycle racing, the cyclist follows immediately behind a pace car equipped with a wind shield, so that they are pedaling in the car's slipstream. Riding at that speed just inches behind a pace car is so dangerous that most world-class cyclists don't attempt it. The custom bicycle is geared so high that it has to be towed by the pace car until it reaches ; the cyclist then casts off the towrope and pedals under their own power. Rompelberg, whose record she was trying to break, encouraged her efforts and allowed her to use as a pace car the same custom dragster he had used in setting the record. In her 2018 attempt, Mueller-Korenek circled the track times after casting off the tow rope, breaking the world record on her final mile. Her goal had been to break the previous record of ; she was surprised to learn she had reached , breaking Rompelberg's record by almost . \"We weren't supposed to go more than 175,\" she said.\n\nMueller-Korenek is married to Chris Korenek and has three adult sons. At the time of her world record performance, she was 45 years old and lived in Valley Center, California.\n"}
{"id": "45672635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45672635", "title": "Dükkanlar Önü Mosque", "text": "Dükkanlar Önü Mosque\n\nDükkanlar Önü Mosque () is a mosque in the Karamanzade quarter of North Nicosia.\n\nAccording to George Jeffery, who called it the \"Tevfik Masjid\", the mosque is originally a Venetian building, most probably built as an inn due its resemblance to the 16th century inns of Italy. The building had Gothic arches and engravings from the 14th century, which Muzaffer Haşmet Gürkan described as \"ornate\". After the Ottoman conquest of Cyprus, the building was converted into a mosque. In the beginning of the 18th century, the building was renovated by Said Mehmed Agha.\n\nThe minaret of the mosque was demolished in 1952 as it was considered dangerous. On 6 September 1962, a large part of the mosque collapsed, killing a Greek Cypriot woman passing by. The incident caused criticism of the newly founded Nicosia Turkish Municipality, whose response was deemed insufficient. The newspaper \"Bozkurt\" described the mosque at the time as \"a building with no architectural or artistic significance, which rather served to meet the religious needs of a commercial neighborhood\". The collapse destroyed the entrance arch and other architectural elements of the mosque.\n\nIn 2011, the Turkish Evkaf Department, in collaboration with the local Evkaf Administration, announced that the mosque would be restored.\n"}
{"id": "260987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=260987", "title": "East Africa", "text": "East Africa\n\nEast Africa or Eastern Africa is the eastern region of the African continent, variably defined by geography. In the United Nations Statistics Division scheme of geographic regions, 20 territories make up Eastern Africa:\n\nDue to colonial territories of the British East Africa Protectorate and German East Africa, the term \"East Africa\" is often (especially in the English language) used to specifically refer to the area now comprising the three countries of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. However, this has never been the convention in many other languages, where the term generally had a wider, strictly geographic context and therefore typically included Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Somalia.\n\nSome parts of East Africa have been renowned for their concentrations of wild animals, such as the \"big five\": the elephant, buffalo, lion, black rhinoceros, and leopard, though populations have been declining under increased stress in recent times, particularly those of the rhino and elephant.\n\nThe geography of East Africa is often stunning and scenic. Shaped by global plate tectonic forces that have created the East African Rift, East Africa is the site of Mount Kilimanjaro and Mount Kenya, the two tallest peaks in Africa. It also includes the world's second largest freshwater lake, Lake Victoria, and the world's second deepest lake, Lake Tanganyika.\n\nThe climate of East Africa is rather atypical of equatorial regions. Because of a combination of the region's generally high altitude and the rain shadow of the westerly monsoon winds created by the Rwenzori Mountains and Ethiopian Highlands, East Africa is surprisingly cool and dry for its latitude. In fact, on the coast of Somalia, many years can go by without any rain whatsoever. Elsewhere the annual rainfall generally increases towards the south and with altitude, being around at Mogadishu and at Mombasa on the coast, whilst inland it increases from around at Garoowe to over at Moshi near Kilimanjaro. Unusually, most of the rain falls in \"two\" distinct wet seasons, one centred on April and the other in October or November. This is usually attributed to the passage of the Intertropical Convergence Zone across the region in those months, but it may also be analogous to the autumn monsoon rains of parts of Sri Lanka, Vietnam and the Brazilian Nordeste.\n\nWest of the Rwenzoris and Ethiopian highlands, the rainfall pattern is more typically tropical, with rain throughout the year near the equator and a single wet season in most of the Ethiopian Highlands from June to September – contracting to July and August around Asmara. Annual rainfall here ranges from over on the western slopes to around at Addis Ababa and at Asmara. In the high mountains rainfall can be over .\n\nRainfall in East Africa is influenced by El Niño events, which tend to increase rainfall except in the northern and western parts of the Ethiopian and Eritrean highlands, where they produce drought and poor Nile floods. Temperatures in East Africa, except on the hot and generally humid coastal belt, are moderate, with maxima of around and minima of at an altitude of . At altitudes of above , frosts are common during the dry season and maxima typically about or less.\n\nThe unique geography and apparent suitability for farming made East Africa a target for European exploration, exploitation and colonialization in the nineteenth century. Today, tourism is an important part of the economies of Kenya, Tanzania, Seychelles, and Uganda. The easternmost point of the continent, that is Ras Hafun in Somalia, is of archaeological, historical and economical importance.\n\nAccording to the theory of the recent African origin of modern humans, the predominantly held belief among most archaeologists, East Africa is the area where anatomically modern humans first appeared. There are differing theories on whether there was a single exodus or several; a multiple dispersal model involves the Southern Dispersal theory. A growing number of researchers suspect that North Africa was instead the original home of the modern humans who first trekked out of the continent.\n\nThe major competing hypothesis is the multiregional origin of modern humans, which envisions a wave of \"Homo sapiens\" migrating earlier from Africa and interbreeding with local \"Homo erectus\" populations in multiple regions of the globe. Most multiregionalists still view Africa as a major wellspring of human genetic diversity, but allow a much greater role for hybridization.\n\nSome of the earliest hominin skeletal remains have been found in the wider region, including fossils discovered in the Awash Valley of Ethiopia, as well as in the Koobi Fora in Kenya and Olduvai Gorge in Tanzania.\n\nThe southern part of East Africa was occupied until recent times by Khoisan hunter-gatherers, whereas in the Ethiopian Highlands the donkey and such crop plants as teff allowed the beginning of agriculture around 7,000 B.C. Lowland barriers and diseases carried by the tsetse fly, however, prevented the donkey and agriculture from spreading southwards. Only in quite recent times has agriculture spread to the more humid regions south of the equator, through the spread of cattle, sheep and crops such as millet. Language distributions suggest that this most likely occurred from Sudan into the African Great Lakes region, since the Nilotic languages spoken by these pre-Bantu farmers have their closest relatives in the middle Nile basin.\n\nDjibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, northern Somalia, and the Red Sea coast of Sudan are considered the most likely location of the land known to the Ancient Egyptians as \"Punt\". The old kingdom's first mention dates to the 25th century BC. The ancient Puntites were a nation of people that had close relations with Pharaonic Egypt during the times of Pharaoh Sahure and Queen Hatshepsut.\n\nThe Kingdom of Aksum was a trading empire centered in Eritrea and northern Ethiopia. It existed from approximately 100–940 AD, growing from the proto-Aksumite Iron Age period c. 4th century BC to achieve prominence by the 1st century AD. The kingdom is mentioned in the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\" as an important market place for ivory, which was exported throughout the ancient world. Aksum was at the time ruled by Zoskales, who also governed the port of Adulis. The Aksumite rulers facilitated trade by minting their own Aksumite currency. The state also established its hegemony over the declining Kingdom of Kush and regularly entered the politics of the kingdoms on the Arabian peninsula, eventually extending its rule over the region with the conquest of the Himyarite Kingdom.\n\nBetween 2500–3000 years ago, Bantu-speaking peoples began a millennia-long series of migrations eastward from their homeland around southern Cameroon. This Bantu expansion introduced agriculture into much of the African Great Lakes region. During the following fifteen centuries, the Bantu slowly intensified farming and grazing over all suitable regions of East Africa, in the process making contact with Austronesian- and Arabic-speaking settlers on southern coastal areas. The latter also spread Islam to the coastal belt, but most Bantu remained African Traditional Religion adherents.\n\nOver a period of many centuries, most hunting-foraging peoples were displaced and absorbed by incoming Bantu communities, as well as by later Nilotic communities. The Bantu expansion was a long series of physical migrations, a diffusion of language and knowledge out into and in from neighboring populations, and a creation of new societal groups involving inter-marriage among communities and small groups moving to communities and small groups moving to new areas.\n\nAfter their movements from their original homeland in West Africa, Bantus also encountered in central east Africa peoples of Cushitic origin. As cattle terminology in use amongst the few modern Bantu pastoralist groups suggests, the Bantu migrants would acquire cattle from their new Cushitic neighbors. Linguistic evidence also indicates that Bantus most likely borrowed the custom of milking cattle directly from Cushitic peoples in the area.\n\nOn the coastal section of the African Great Lakes region, another mixed Bantu community developed through contact with Muslim Arab and Persian traders, leading to the development of the mixed Arab, Persian and African Swahili City States. The Swahili culture that emerged from these exchanges evinces many Arab and Islamic influences not seen in traditional Bantu culture, as do the many Afro-Arab members of the Bantu Swahili people. With its original speech community centered on the coastal parts of Tanzania (particularly Zanzibar) and Kenya—a seaboard referred to as the Swahili Coast—the Bantu Swahili language contains many Arabic loan-words as a consequence of these interactions.\n\nThe earliest Bantu inhabitants of the east coast of Kenya and Tanzania encountered by these later Arab and Persian settlers have been variously identified with the trading settlements of Rhapta, Azania and Menouthias referenced in early Greek and Chinese writings from AD 50 to AD 500, ultimately giving rise to the name for Tanzania. These early writings perhaps document the first wave of Bantu settlers to reach central east Africa during their migration.\n\nBetween the 14th and 15th centuries, large African Great Lakes kingdoms and states emerged, such as the Buganda and Karagwe kingdoms of Uganda and Tanzania.\n\nThe Portuguese were the first Europeans to explore the region of current-day Kenya, Tanzania, and Mozambique by sea. Vasco da Gama visited Mombasa in 1498. Da Gama's voyage was successful in reaching India, which permitted the Portuguese to trade with the Far East directly by sea. This in turn challenged the older trading networks of mixed land and sea routes, such as the spice trade routes which utilized the Persian Gulf, Red Sea and camel caravans to reach the eastern Mediterranean.\n\nThe Republic of Venice had gained control over much of the trade routes between Europe and Asia. After traditional land routes to India had been closed by the Ottoman Turks, Portugal hoped to use the sea route pioneered by da Gama to break the once Venetian trading monopoly. Portuguese rule in the African Great Lakes region focused mainly on a coastal strip centered around Mombasa. The Portuguese presence in the area officially began after 1505, when flagships under the command of Don Francisco de Almeida conquered Kilwa, an island located in what is now southern Tanzania.\n\nIn March 1505, having received from Manuel I of Portugal the appointment of viceroy of the newly conquered territory in India, he set sail from Lisbon in command of a large and powerful fleet, and arrived in July at Quiloa (Kilwa), which yielded to him almost without a struggle. A much more vigorous resistance was offered by the Moors of Mombasa. However, the town was taken and destroyed, and its large treasures went to strengthen the resources of Almeida. Attacks followed on Hoja (now known as Ungwana, located at the mouth of the Tana River), Barawa, Angoche, Pate and other coastal towns until the western Indian Ocean was a safe haven for Portuguese commercial interests. At other places on his way, such as the island of Angediva, near Goa, and Cannanore, the Portuguese built forts, and adopted measures to secure the Portuguese supremacy.\n\nPortugal's main goal on the Swahili coast was to take control of the spice trade from the Arabs. At this stage, the Portuguese presence in East Africa served the purposes of controlling trade within the Indian Ocean and securing the sea routes linking Europe to Asia. Portuguese naval vessels were very disruptive to the commerce of Portugal's enemies within the western Indian Ocean and were able to demand high tariffs on items transported through the sea due to their strategic control of ports and shipping lanes. The construction of Fort Jesus in Mombasa in 1593 was meant to solidify Portuguese hegemony in the region, but their influence was clipped by the British, Dutch and Omani Arab incursions into the Great Lakes region during the 17th century.\n\nThe Omani Arabs posed the most direct challenge to Portuguese influence in the African Great Lakes regigon. They besieged Portuguese fortresses, openly attacked naval vessels and expelled the Portuguese from the Kenyan and Tanzanian coasts by 1730. By this time, the Portuguese Empire had already lost its interest on the spice trade sea route due to the decreasing profitability of that business. The Arabs reclaimed much of the Indian Ocean trade, forcing the Portuguese to retreat south where they remained in Portuguese East Africa (Mozambique) as sole rulers until the 1975 independence of Mozambique.\n\nOmani Arab colonization of the Kenyan and Tanzanian coasts brought the once independent city-states under closer foreign scrutiny and domination than was experienced during the Portuguese period. Like their predecessors, the Omani Arabs were primarily able only to control the coastal areas, not the interior. However, the creation of clove plantations, intensification of the slave trade and relocation of the Omani capital to Zanzibar in 1839 by Seyyid Said had the effect of consolidating the Omani power in the region.\n\nArab governance of all the major ports along the Swahili coast continued until British interests aimed particularly at ending the slave trade and creation of a wage-labour system began to put pressure on Omani rule. By the late nineteenth century, the slave trade on the open seas had been completely outlawed by the British and the Omani Arabs had little ability to resist the British navy's ability to enforce the directive. The Omani presence continued in Zanzibar and Pemba until the Zanzibar Revolution in 1964. However, the official Omani Arab presence in Kenya was checked by German and British seizure of key ports and creation of crucial trade alliances with influential local leaders in the 1880s.\n\nBetween the 19th and 20th century, East Africa became a theatre of competition between the major imperialistic European nations of the time. The three main colors of the African country were beige, red, and blue. The red stood for the English, blue stood for the French, and the beige stood for Germany during the period of colonialism. During the period of the Scramble for Africa, almost every country in the larger region to varying degrees became part of a European colonial empire.\n\nPortugal had first established a strong presence in southern Mozambique and the Indian Ocean since the 15th century, while during this period their possessions increasingly grew including parts from the present northern Mozambique country, up to Mombasa in present-day Kenya. At Lake Malawi, they finally met the recently created British Protectorate of Nyasaland (nowadays Malawi), which surrounded the homonymous lake on three sides, leaving the Portuguese the control of lake's eastern coast. The British Empire set foot in the region's most exploitable and promising lands acquiring what is today Uganda, and Kenya. The Protectorate of Uganda and the Colony of Kenya were located in a rich farmland area mostly appropriate for the cultivation of cash crops like coffee and tea, as well as for animal husbandry with products produced from cattle and goats, such as goat meat, beef and milk. Moreover, this area had the potential for a significant residential expansion, being suitable for the relocation of a large number of British nationals to the region. Prevailing climatic conditions and the regions' geomorphology allowed the establishment of flourishing European style settlements like Nairobi, Vila Pery, Vila Junqueiro, Porto Amélia, Lourenço Marques and Entebbe.\n\nThe French settled the largest island of the Indian Ocean (and the fourth-largest globally), Madagascar, along with a group of smaller islands nearby, namely Réunion and the Comoros. Madagascar became part of the French colonial empire following two military campaigns against the Kingdom of Madagascar, which it initiated after persuading Britain to relinquish its interests in the island in exchange for control of Zanzibar off the coast of Tanganyika, an important island hub of the spices trade. The British also held a number of island colonies in the region, including the extended archipelago of Seychelles and the rich farming island of Mauritius, previously under the French sovereignty.\n\nThe German Empire gained control of a large area named German East Africa, comprising present-day Rwanda, Burundi and the mainland part of Tanzania named Tanganyika. In 1922, the British gained a League of Nations mandate over Tanganyika which it administered until Independence was granted to Tanganyika in 1961. Following the Zanzibar Revolution of 1965, the independent state of Tanganyika formed the United Republic of Tanzania by creating a union between the mainland, and the island chain of Zanzibar. Zanzibar is now a semi-autonomous state in a union with the mainland which is collectively and commonly referred to as Tanzania. German East Africa, though very extensive, was not of such strategic importance as the British Crown's colonies to the north: the inhabitation of these lands was difficult and thus limited, mainly due to climatic conditions and the local geomorphology. Italy gained control of various parts of Somalia in the 1880s. The southern three-fourths of Somalia became an Italian protectorate (Italian Somaliland).\n\nMeanwhile, in 1884, a narrow coastal strip of northern Somalia came under British control (British Somaliland). This northern protectorate was just opposite the British colony of Aden on the Arabian Peninsula. With these territories secured, Britain was able to serve as gatekeeper of the sea lane leading to British India. In 1890, beginning with the purchase of the small port town of (Asseb) from a local sultan in Eritrea, the Italians colonized all of Eritrea.\n\nIn 1895, from bases in Somalia and Eritrea, the Italians launched the First Italo–Ethiopian War against the Orthodox Empire of Ethiopia. By 1896, the war had become a total disaster for the Italians and Ethiopia was able to retain its independence. Ethiopia remained independent until 1936 when, after the Second Italo-Abyssinian War, it became part of Italian East Africa. The Italian occupation of Ethiopia ended in 1941 during World War II as part of the East African Campaign.The French also staked out an East African outpost on the route to French Indochina. Starting in the 1850s, the small protectorate of Djibouti became French Somaliland in 1897.\n\nIn the Horn of Africa and Nile Valley, Afroasiatic languages predominate, including languages of the family's Cushitic (such as Beja, Oromo and Somali), Semitic (such as Amharic, Arabic and Tigrinya), and Omotic (such as Wolaytta) branches.\n\nIn the African Great Lakes region, Niger-Congo languages of the Bantu branch are most widely spoken. Among these languages are Kikuyu, Kinyarwanda, Kirundi, Runyakitara and Luganda. Swahili, with at least 80 million speakers as a first or second language, is an important trade language in the Great Lakes area. It has official status in Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda. \n\nNilo-Saharan languages, such as Luo, Kalenjin, Maasai and Nuer, are spoken in lesser numbers, primarily in the African Great Lakes and Nile Valley. \n\nIndo-European languages, such as English, French and Portuguese, remain important in higher institutions in some parts of the larger region.\n\nEastern Africa had an estimated population of 260 million in 2000. This was projected to reach 890 million by 2050, with an average growth rate of 2.5% per annum. The 2000 population is expected to quintuple over the course of the 21st century, to 1.6 billion as of 2100 (UN estimates as of 2017). In Ethiopia, there is an estimated population of 102 million as of 2016.\n\nUntil recently, several East African countries were riven with political coups, ethnic violence and oppressive dictators. Since the end of colonialism, the region has endured the following conflicts:\n\n\nKenya has enjoyed relatively stable governance. However, politics have been turbulent at times, including the attempted coup d’état in 1982 and the 2007 election riots.\n\nTanzania has known stable government since independence although there are significant political and religious tensions resulting from the political union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar in 1964. Zanzibar is now a semi-autonomous state in the United Republic of Tanzania.\n\nTanzania and Uganda fought the Uganda-Tanzania War in 1978–1979, which led to the removal of Uganda's despotic leader Idi Amin.\n\nRwanda, Uganda and Burundi have each faced instability and ethnic conflict since independence, most notably the 1994 Rwandan Genocide and the 1993 Burundi Genocide and subsequent Burundi Civil War. Rwanda and Uganda continue to be involved in related conflicts outside the region.\n\nDjibouti, as well as the Puntland and Somaliland regions of Somalia, have also seen relative stability.\n\nSouth Sudan peacefully seceded from Sudan in 2011, six and a half years after a peace agreement ended the Second Sudanese Civil War. South Sudanese independence was nearly derailed by the South Kordofan conflict, particularly a dispute over the status of the Abyei Area, and both Abyei and South Kordofan's Nuba Hills remain a source of tension between Juba and Khartoum.\n\nAccording to the CIA, as of 2017, the countries in the eastern Africa region have a total population of around 537.9 million inhabitants.\n\n"}
{"id": "47248490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47248490", "title": "Elina Kahla", "text": "Elina Kahla\n\nElina Kahla is a Finnish philologist and academic who works at the Aleksanteri Institute at the University of Helsinki. She was the former President of the St. Petersburg EUNIC in 2015-2016 and Director of the Finnish Institute in St. Petersburg in 2012-2016.\n\nKahla matriculated in 1979 (Helsingin Suomalainen yhteiskoulu SYK); completed a Master of Arts at Helsinki University in 1985, Licentiate in 2001 and a doctorate in 2007. She worked as a freelance travel guide, translator, interpreter and teacher. From 1991 to 1996, she worked at Aalto Executive Education as project manager and consult. From 1996 to 2012, Kahla worked for the Aleksanteri Institute at the University of Helsinki, and from 2009 as an associate professor at the UH with a focus on Russian cultural history. She is also a fellow (2012-2017) at the Center of Excellence in Russian Studies funded by the Academy of Finland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19514253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19514253", "title": "Elysian Airlines", "text": "Elysian Airlines\n\nElysian Airlines is a cargo airline based at Yaoundé Nsimalen International Airport in Yaoundé, Cameroon, and had additional significant operations at Spriggs Payne Airport in Monrovia, Liberia, and at Conakry International Airport in Conakry, Guinea. According to the airline's website, it was founded in January 2006 as a public limited company, with 51% of shares held by a Cameroonian consortium and the remainder owned by a British/South African group. Elysian's scheduled operations stopped in 2010, but resumed in 2015.\n\nElysian Airlines began with a domestic network in Cameroon, but has since expanded rapidly westward. As of November 2008, the airline offered an extensive network of international services across West Africa, as well as a spread of domestic flights within several countries. The airline also offers charter services. Services restarted in 2015, using a Bae 146 for schedule routes as well as charter. An Airbus A310F was purchased in 2015 and is used for Cargo services in Africa, Europe and the Middle East.\n\n\nThe Elysian Airlines fleet consists of the following aircraft (as of August 2016):\n\nThe airline previously operated a further three British Aerospace 146 aircraft and an Airbus A310.\n"}
{"id": "53681863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53681863", "title": "European Federation of Krav Maga", "text": "European Federation of Krav Maga\n\nThe European Federation of Krav Maga (FEKM for Fédération Européenne de Krav Maga in French) was founded in 1997 by Richard Douieb. Richard has received the delegation of Imi Lichtenfeld, the founder of Krav Maga, to represent the discipline in Europe in 1987. Since its creation, the FEKM has expanded in more than 12 countries around the world and counts 18 000 practitioners.\n"}
{"id": "6273889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6273889", "title": "Femeia visurilor", "text": "Femeia visurilor\n\nFemeia visurilor is a 2005 Romanian film directed by Dan Pița and starring Dan Condurache and Răzvan Vasilescu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50197929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50197929", "title": "Finnish general strike of 1956", "text": "Finnish general strike of 1956\n\nThe Finnish general strike of 1956 is the latest of the three general strikes in Finnish history; there have also been general strikes in 1905 and 1917. The 1956 strike occurred from March 1 to March 20, 1956. About 500,000 Finnish citizens took part in the strike.\n\nFollowing the end of post-war price control measures by the government in 1955, the prices of many goods and services was on the rise. The cost of living in Finland increased by 7% in two months. The Central Organisation of Finnish Trade Unions (SAK) attempted to raise the overall level of wages to account for the rise in the price level. Though internally conflicted on the fine print, the SAK was demanding a raise of 12 mk per hour, which would raise the wages of Finnish workers by 6–10 percent.\n\nThe 1956 presidential election coincided with the industrial negotiations. One of the candidates was then-Prime Minister Urho Kekkonen, who didn't want to risk losing the presidential electoral college vote by accepting the SAK's proposal.\n\nOn February 16, the SAK's leadership decided to go forth and launch a general strike. Following the fall-through of emergency negotiations between the SAK and then Speaker of the Parliament Karl-August Fagerholm, the industrial action was started at 06:00 on March 1, the day President Urho Kekkonen assumed office for his first term.\n\nThe general strike, which concluded on 20 March, resulted in a nationwide wage increase of 6–10 percent.\n\nThe general strike intensified the internal conflicts of the Social Democratic Party and resulted in a leftist faction centred around Emil Skog leaving the party shortly after.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8484953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8484953", "title": "Flanders DRIVE", "text": "Flanders DRIVE\n\nFlanders’ DRIVE is a Flemish non-profit organization. The aim of the organization is to support the vehicle suppliers with know-how through the Flanders’ DRIVE Network, and to provide infrastructure for the automotive industry through the Flanders’ DRIVE Engineering Centre. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19458788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19458788", "title": "Forward Operating Base Gibraltar", "text": "Forward Operating Base Gibraltar\n\nFOB Gibraltar was a British-manned Forward Operating Base in Helmand Province, Afghanistan next to the Helmand River, near the town of Sangin. It was named after the port of Gibraltar, which was the lynchpin of British Naval dominance in the Mediterranean.\n\nThe mission for FOB Gibraltar was to train and support Afghan soldiers and take Taliban pressure off the Sangin area, so that the soldiers and the Provincial Reconstruction Team (PRT) could try to secure the population while improving their quality of life.\n\nTaliban fighters who attacked FOB Gibaltar during the summer of 2008 referred to the base as the 'mouth of hell' or 'devil's place'. Of the 160 men of 2nd Battalion, Parachute Regiment (2 PARA) who manned the base, almost one in three were killed or wounded, a higher casualty rate than that suffered by British soldiers during the Second World War: Five killed in action, 14 seriously injured, and another 30 wounded. The Base was last occupied by C Coy 2 Rifles prior to the closure of the FOB in June 2009. C Coy 2 RIFLES moved to FOB Wishtan near Sangin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24170232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24170232", "title": "G.M.Dimitrov Metro Station", "text": "G.M.Dimitrov Metro Station\n\nG.M.Dimitrov Metro Station () is a station on the Sofia Metro in Bulgaria. It was put into operation on May 8, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59755", "title": "Group of Eight", "text": "Group of Eight\n\nThe G8, reformatted as G7 from 2014 due to the suspension of Russia's participation, was an inter-governmental political forum from 1997 until 2014.\n\nThe forum originated with a 1975 summit hosted by France that brought together representatives of six governments: France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States, thus leading to the name Group of Six or G6. The summit came to be known as the Group of Seven, or G7, in 1976 with the addition of Canada. Russia was added to the political forum from 1997, which the following year became known as the G8. In March 2014 Russia was suspended indefinitely following the annexation of Crimea, whereupon the political forum name reverted to G7. In 2017 Russia announced its permanent withdrawal from the G8. However, several representatives of G7 countries stated that they would be interested in Russia's return to the group. The European Union was represented at the G8 since the 1980s as a \"nonenumerated\" participant, but originally could not host or chair summits. The 40th summit was the first time the European Union was able to host and chair a summit. Collectively, in 2012 the G8 nations comprised 50.1 percent of 2012 global nominal GDP and 40.9 percent of global GDP (PPP).\n\n\"G7\" can refer to the member states in aggregate or to the annual summit meeting of the G7 heads of government. G7 ministers also meet throughout the year, such as the G7 finance ministers (who meet four times a year), G7 foreign ministers, or G7 environment ministers.\n\nEach calendar year, the responsibility of hosting the G8 was rotated through the member states in the following order: France, United States, United Kingdom, Russia (suspended), Germany, Japan, Italy, and Canada. The holder of the presidency sets the agenda, hosts the summit for that year, and determines which ministerial meetings will take place.\n\nIn 2005, the UK government initiated the practice of inviting five leading emerging markets — Brazil, China, India, Mexico, and South Africa — to participate in the G8 meetings that came to be known as G8+5, but this practice was short-lived. With the G20 major economies growing in stature since the 2008 Washington summit, world leaders from the group announced at their Pittsburgh summit in September 2009 that the group would replace the G8 as the main economic council of wealthy nations. Nevertheless, the G7 retains its relevance as a \"steering group for the West\", with special significance appointed to Japan.\n\nFollowing 1994's G7 summit in Naples, Russian officials held separate meetings with leaders of the G7 after the group's summits. This informal arrangement was dubbed the Political 8 (P8)—or, colloquially, the G7+1. At the invitation of UK Prime Minister Tony Blair and U.S. President Bill Clinton, President Boris Yeltsin was invited first as a guest observer, later as a full participant. It was seen as a way to encourage Yeltsin with his capitalist reforms. Russia formally joined the group in 1998, resulting in the Group of Eight, or G8.\n\nA major focus of the G8 since 2009 has been the global supply of food. At the 2009 L'Aquila summit, the G8's members promised to contribute $22 billion to the issue. By 2015, 93% of funds had been disbursed.\n\nAt the 2012 summit, President Barack Obama asked G8 leaders to adopt the New Alliance for Food Security and Nutrition initiative to \"help the rural poor produce more food and sell it in thriving local and regional markets as well as on the global market\".\n\nOn 24 March 2014, the G7 members cancelled the planned G8 summit that was to be held in June that year in the Russian city of Sochi, and suspended Russia's membership of the group, due to Russia's annexation of Crimea; nevertheless, they stopped short of outright permanent expulsion. Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov downplayed the importance of the decision by the U.S. and its allies, and pointed up that major international decisions were taken by the G20 countries.\n\nLater on, the Italian Foreign Affairs minister Federica Mogherini and other Italian authorities, along with the EastWest Institute board member Wolfgang Ischinger, suggested that Russia may restore its membership in the group. In April 2015, the German foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said that Russia would be welcomed to return to G8 provided the Minsk Protocol was implemented. In 2016, he added that \"none of the major international conflicts can be solved without Russia\", and the G7 countries will consider Russia's return to the group in 2017. The same year, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe called for Russia's return to G8, stating that Russia's involvement is \"crucial to tackling multiple crises in the Middle East\". In January 2017, the Italian foreign minister Angelino Alfano said that Italy hopes for \"resuming the G8 format with Russia and ending the atmosphere of the Cold War\". On 13 January 2017, Russia announced that it would permanently leave the G8 grouping. Nonetheless, Christian Lindner, the leader of Free Democratic Party of Germany and member of the Bundestag, said that Putin should be \"asked to join the table of the G7\" so that one could \"talk with him and not about him\", and \"we cannot make all things dependent on the situation in Crimea\". In April 2018, the German politicians and members of the Bundestag Sahra Wagenknecht and Alexander Graf Lambsdorff said that Russia should be invited back to the group and attend the 2018 summit in Canada: \"Russia should again be at the table during the [June] summit at the latest\" because \"peace in Europe and also in the Middle East is only possible with Russia\". The President of US Donald Trump also stated that Russia should be returned to G8; his appeal was supported by the Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte.Later the 4 EU members of G7, Canada and Japan anyway didn't agree about it. After several G7 members quickly rejected US President Trump suggestion to accept again Russian Federation in the G8, Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov said Russian Federation isn't interested to rejoin the political forum G8. He also said that G20 is sufficient for Russian Federation. In the final statement of 2018 Canada meeting, the G7 members announced to recall sanctions and also to be ready to take further restrictive measures against the Russian Federation for the failure of Minsk Agreement complete implementation.\n\nBy design, the G8 deliberately lacked an administrative structure like those for international organizations, such as the United Nations or the World Bank. The group does not have a permanent secretariat, or offices for its members.\n\nThe presidency of the group rotates annually among member countries, with each new term beginning on 1 January of the year. The rotation order is: France, the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia (suspended), Germany, Japan, Italy, and Canada. The country holding the presidency is responsible for planning and hosting a series of ministerial-level meetings, leading up to a mid-year summit attended by the heads of government. The president of the European Commission participates as an equal in all summit events.\n\nThe ministerial meetings bring together ministers responsible for various portfolios to discuss issues of mutual or global concern. The range of topics include health, law enforcement, labor, economic and social development, energy, environment, foreign affairs, justice and interior, terrorism, and trade. There are also a separate set of meetings known as the G8+5, created during the 2005 Gleneagles, Scotland summit, that is attended by finance and energy ministers from all eight member countries in addition to the five \"outreach countries\" which are also known as the Group of Five—Brazil, People's Republic of China, India, Mexico, and South Africa.\n\nIn June 2005, justice ministers and interior ministers from the G8 countries agreed to launch an international database on pedophiles. The G8 officials also agreed to pool data on terrorism, subject to restrictions by privacy and security laws in individual countries.\n\nAt the Heiligendamm Summit in 2007, the G8 acknowledged a proposal from the EU for a worldwide initiative on efficient energy use. They agreed to explore, along with the International Energy Agency, the most effective means to promote energy efficiency internationally. A year later, on 8 June 2008, the G8 along with China, India, South Korea and the European Community established the International Partnership for Energy Efficiency Cooperation, at the Energy Ministerial meeting hosted by Japan holding 2008 G8 Presidency, in Aomori.\n\nG8 Finance Ministers, whilst in preparation for the 34th Summit of the G8 Heads of State and Government in Toyako, Hokkaido, met on the 13 and 14 June 2008, in Osaka, Japan. They agreed to the \"G8 Action Plan for Climate Change to Enhance the Engagement of Private and Public Financial Institutions.\" In closing, Ministers supported the launch of new Climate Investment Funds (CIFs) by the World Bank, which will help existing efforts until a new framework under the UNFCCC is implemented after 2012. The UNFCCC is not on track to meeting any of its stated goals.\n\nThe first G8 summit was held in 1997 after Russia formally joined the G7 group, and the last one was held in 2013. The 2014 summit was scheduled to be held in Russia. However, due to the Crimean crisis, the other seven countries decided to hold a separate meeting without Russia as a G7 summit in Brussels, Belgium.\n\nSome criticism centres on the assertion that members of G8 do not do enough to help global problems, due to strict patent policy and other issues related to globalization. In \"Unraveling Global Apartheid\", political analyst Titus Alexander described the G7, as it was in 1996, as the 'cabinet' of global minority rule, with a coordinating role in world affairs.\n\nThe Heritage Foundation has criticized the G8 for advocating food security without making room for economic freedom.\n\nThe G8's relevance has been subject to debate from 2008 onward. It represented the major industrialized countries but critics argued that the G8 no longer represented the world's most powerful economies, as China has surpassed every economy but the United States.\n\nVladimir Putin did not attend the 2012 G8 summit at Camp David, causing \"Foreign Policy\" (\"FP\") magazine to remark that the summit has generally outlived its usefulness as a viable international gathering of foreign leaders. Two years later, Russia was suspended from the G8, then chose to leave permanently in January 2017.\n\nThe G20 major economies leaders' summit has had an increased level of international prestige and influence. However, British Prime Minister David Cameron said of the G8 in 2012:\n\nSome people ask, does the G8 still matter, when we have a Group of 20? My answer is, yes. The G8 is a group of like-minded countries that share a belief in free enterprise as the best route to growth. As eight countries making up about half the world's gross domestic product, the standards we set, the commitments we make, and the steps we take can help solve vital global issues, fire up economies and drive prosperity all over the world.\n\nThe Y8 Summit or simply Y8, formerly known as the G8 Youth Summit is the youth counterpart to the G8 summit. The summits were organized from 2006 to 2013. The first summit to use the name Y8 took place in May 2012 in Puebla, Mexico, alongside the Youth G8 that took place in Washington, D.C. the same year. From 2016 onwards, similar youth conferences were organized under the name Y7 Summit.\n\nThe Y8 Summit brings together young leaders from G8 nations and the European Union to facilitate discussions of international affairs, promote cross-cultural understanding, and build global friendships. The conference closely follows the formal negotiation procedures of the G8 Summit. The Y8 Summit represents the innovative voice of young adults between the age of 18 and 35. At the end of the summit, the delegates jointly come up with a consensus-based written statement, the Final Communiqué. This document is subsequently presented to G8 leaders in order to inspire positive change.\n\nThe Y8 Summit was organized annually by a global network of youth-led organizations called The IDEA (The International Diplomatic Engagement Association). The organizations undertake the selection processes for their respective national delegations, while the hosting country is responsible for organizing the summit. An example of such a youth-led organization is the Young European Leadership association, which recruits and sends EU Delegates.\n\nThe goal of the Y8 Summit is to bring together young people from around the world to allow the voices and opinions of young generations to be heard and to encourage them to take part in global decision-making processes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44400938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44400938", "title": "Joulutorttu", "text": "Joulutorttu\n\nA joulutorttu (Finnish lit. \"Christmas tart\", Swedish \"jultårta\"; sometimes known as \"tähtitorttu\" \"star tart\") is a Finnish Christmas pastry. It is traditionally made from puff pastry in the shape of a star or pinwheel and filled with prune jam and often dusted with icing sugar. The pastries can be in other shapes and apple used in place of the prune jam.\n\nJoulutorttus are mostly made in Finland but also in Sweden. The Swedish media has accused the pastries of being \"swastika-shaped\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17984426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17984426", "title": "KPH (radio station)", "text": "KPH (radio station)\n\nKPH is a public coast radio station on the West Coast of the United States. For most of the 20th century, it provided ship to shore communications including telegrams (using Morse code) and marine telex service (using radioteletype). The station discontinued commercial operation in 1998, but is operated occasionally as a historic service - its signal can be tuned in throughout a large portion of the western hemisphere. \n\nKPH would broadcast regular bulletins of news, weather and other general information to the shipping community, then relay business and personal messages to and from individual ships. Station operators also monitored the international distress frequencies for calls from ships in trouble.\n\nWith the decline of Morse code the station was retired, but volunteers have preserved it in operating condition so that it can still be heard on the air on weekends and special occasions, sometimes using the alternative callsign KSM and the amateur radio club callsign K6KPH. KPH is located within the Point Reyes National Seashore in Marin County, California, north of the San Francisco Bay.\n\nThe station dates back to the dawn of the radio era in the early years of the twentieth century when it began operations at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco, California, using the callsign \"PH\". Forced out by the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire, the station moved from one temporary site to another until it was acquired by the Radio Corporation of America (RCA) and relocated to Marin County. Subsequently it was owned by MCI Communications and finally Globe Wireless, who still own the KPH operating license.\n\nThe receiving station and control point now occupy a classic white 1920s' Art Deco building on Sir Francis Drake Boulevard in the Point Reyes National Seashore whereas the similarly styled transmitter buildings are about 20 miles south at , near the town of Bolinas. The reason for siting the transmitters so far away from the receivers is that their powerful outgoing signals would make it difficult to hear weak incoming signals from faraway ships on the same frequency (or channel). Operators at the receiving site remotely control and key the transmitters by means of landlines connecting the two sites.\n\nKPH has always been mainly a Morse code station. International Morse code is used on the air, but American Morse code was once used on the telegraph lines (\"land lines\"), so operators at the station had to learn both varieties until the landline telegraph was replaced by the teleprinter.\n\nIn the beginning, all traffic was sent by Morse code (\"CW\") using hand-operated Morse keys. Devices were introduced to allow messages to be typed or \"punched\" onto a paper tape so that they could be sent automatically at any time. Station IDs and other repeated announcements pre-recorded by this method are called \"wheels\".\n\nIn the 1930s, landline teleprinter operation was adapted for radio use (radioteletype or \"RTTY\") which allowed for faster, more efficient messaging. This did not replace Morse code entirely, because many vessels had no teleprinter equipment and because Morse was the most reliable transmission mode available: when faced with bad atmospheric conditions and weak signals, dots and dashes are easier to pick up than teleprinter or the human voice, and all the coding and decoding are done in the brain.\n\nOver the years radioteletype was improved and computerized, giving rise to new digital transmission modes such as Clover and PACTOR. Satellite communications became a technically and commercially viable alternative to terrestrial radio links. Ship radio equipment became more advanced and automated, requiring fewer radio officers - or none. By the 1990s few ship stations were equipped for Morse code or had any use for it, so coast stations re-allocated their Morse frequencies to other uses. Some stations disappeared from the airwaves altogether, as did KPH after being acquired by Globe Wireless in 1997. Its Morse code traffic was then diverted to other stations such as KFS in Half Moon Bay, California, another Globe Wireless station. KFS continued to handle Morse code traffic until July 13, 1999 (Universal time; actually July 12 in the Pacific time zone) when it made its \"last ever\" Morse transmission, ceremonially marking the supposed end of commercial Morse code usage in America (as distinct from amateur Morse code usage, which continues). This anniversary is commemorated on the air every July as the \"Night of Nights\" by KPH and other coast radio stations, along with radio amateurs who participate on their own frequencies.\n\nKPH is now a part of the Point Reyes National Seashore and is maintained and operated by former KPH employees and volunteers of the Maritime Radio Historical Society. There are several reasons that the station was able to survive decommissioning and make a comeback. First, the equipment was old and not suitable for resale, so much of it was left where it was, with connections to power, antennas and land lines still intact. Second, the real estate taken up by buildings and antenna farms, while desirable, was also unsuitable for resale (especially to the extent that it lay within the Point Reyes National Seashore), meaning that the properties were not bought and redeveloped the way some other stations were. The KPH license and the frequencies assigned to it are made available to the MHRS by the license holder, Globe Wireless. In addition, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has granted the MHRS a new coast station license with the callsign KSM, as well as the amateur radio club callsign K6KPH for communicating with radio hams on amateur frequencies. K6KPH is unusually powerful and well-equipped for an amateur station, with its professional grade transmitters, antennas and operators. Operating in amateur radio mode means following a different set of rules (using different frequencies and lower transmitter power levels), but amateurs are not limited in their choice of equipment as long as they stick to these rules.\n\nJuly 12-13, 2009: Tenth annual Night of Nights: Historic coast stations, ships and radio amateurs on the air commemorating the anniversary of the \"end of Morse code in America\". KPH, KSM and amateur station K6KPH were due to be on air at the KPH site. Coast stations scheduled to be on air included KFS in Half Moon Bay, WLO in Alabama and KLB in Seattle, WA. Details at https://web.archive.org/web/20090713015805/http://www.radiomarine.org/non10.html.\n\nSS American Victory: a Second World War Victory ship which has been preserved as a museum ship in Tampa, Florida.\n\nSS Jeremiah O'Brien: a Second World War Liberty ship preserved as a museum ship in San Francisco, Ca.\n\nSS Lane Victory: a Second World War Victory ship preserved as a museum ship in San Pedro, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1307964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1307964", "title": "Kailash Mehra Sadhu", "text": "Kailash Mehra Sadhu\n\nKailash Mehra Sadhu (born 1956) is a Kashmiri singer.\n\nKailash Mehra Sadhu, also known as Malika-e-Ghazal, was born in Dogra, Nainital. She earned Master's degrees from Panjab University, Chandigarh and Prayag Sangeet Samiti, Allahabad (1975), the latter degree focusing on vocal music. She became a music lecturer at the Women's College in Anantnag in 1979.\n\nShe earned fame singing Kashmiri ghazals and songs, and has recorded in Kashmiri, Urdu, Gujarati, Sanskrit, Punjabi, Hindi, Persian, Bhaderwahi, Pahari and the Kannad languages. Kailash participated in music competitions organised by the state cultural academy. Her stage performances were organised in Patna, Lucknow, Calcutta, Madras, Trivandrum, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Delhi.\n\nHaving married in 1980, she took part in the fourth Festival of Music organised by the Kashmiri Overseas Association of Britain in 1985. She also sang for the film Aarnimall.\n\nShe was given the title, Malika-e-Ghazal in 1993 by the Jammu Vikas Sanstha. The Sadiq memorial Committee awarded her the Mehboob Awami Funkara in 1981 and she was chosen the best singer by the Sri Bhat Smarak Samiti in 1980.\n\nKailash Mehra Sadhu sang for the album 'Poozai Posh'. Alongside fellow Kashmiri singer Vijay Malla, and produced by the Kashmir Overseas Association of the United States of America, this album, containing several sacred bhajans and hymns native to Kashmir, and as a movement to preserve Kashmir's 5000-year-old culture, history and sanctity, this album became highly popular with the millions of Kashmiris in the diaspora worldwide.\n\nBefore the Kashmir conflict, Kailash Mehra Sadhu used to be a reasonably well-known singer known for her bhajans and hymns. These hymns gained popularity after the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits, after her collaboration with the Kashmir Overseas Association of the USA.\n\n"}
{"id": "39813679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39813679", "title": "Kapuska", "text": "Kapuska\n\nKapuska is a hearty traditional Turkish cuisine stew whose name is derived from the Russian language word for cabbage. Although the name is imported, the dish is a Turkish version of a cabbage stew common in Russia and Eastern Europe. Kapuska is widely known and consumed in the Thrace and Black Sea regions of Turkey.\n\nKapuska is cooked in different ways in Turkey: with garbanzo beans, bulgur, rice, ground meat, lamb, beef, or vegetarian.\n\nIt is known to be a dish for the poor. Turkish poet Fethi Naci writes in his memoirs that during World War II the dish they most ate was kapuska.\n\n"}
{"id": "1750110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1750110", "title": "Koštana", "text": "Koštana\n\nKoštana \"(Serbian Cyrillic: Коштана\") is a popular play, written by Borisav Stanković. It is set in Stanković's native Vranje, a town in southern Serbia. It features many themes of Serbian folklore and patriarchal customs which were still present in the late nineteenth century. The play is very popular to this day.\n\nThe Serbian composer Petar Konjović wrote an opera of the same name based on the play.\n"}
{"id": "28789519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28789519", "title": "La Dormition des amants", "text": "La Dormition des amants\n\nLa Dormition des amants is a Belgian novel written by Jacqueline Harpman. It was first published through Éditions Grasset in 2002. It won the Prix triennal du roman of the French Community of Belgium in 2003.\n\nThis is an historical novel set in the seventeenth-century. Maria Concepcion (queen presumptive) is the daughter of King Carlos of Spain Carlos. While she is trained for ascendency, Maria treats her small castrated slave, Girolamo, with great compassion and he gradually becomes her playmate and confidant. Together, they learn to read and write, and science.\nIn 1610, Henri IV was assassinated by Ravaillac. Édouard (a fictional king invented by the author) ascends the throne. Maria is to marry Édouard and become the queen of France. Girolamo comes with Maria to France and are inseparable; he even sleeps in a room next to that of the Queen. But their love is only platonic and can never become carnal.\n\nHere we find a little myth of Tristan and Isolde.\n\n"}
{"id": "34847583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34847583", "title": "Liberal Christian Democrats Union", "text": "Liberal Christian Democrats Union\n\nThe Liberal Christian Democrats Union is a political party in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is based in Kinshasa. The party is led by Raymond Tshibanda.\n"}
{"id": "5186605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5186605", "title": "List of barons of Austria-Hungary", "text": "List of barons of Austria-Hungary\n\nThis page lists baronial families in the territories of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, whether extant or extinct. They held no style, but were normally addressed as \"Gnädiger Herr\" (Gracious Lord), \"Gnädige Frau\", or \"Gnädiges Fräulein\" (Gracious Lady). Please note that nobility as such was formally abolished in Austria in 1919.\n\nThe German forms of the titles are \"Freiherr\" (baron), \"Freifrau\" (baroness, wife of a baron) and \"Freiin\" (baroness, daughter of a baron).\n"}
{"id": "9202105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9202105", "title": "Mohéli Bandar Es Eslam Airport", "text": "Mohéli Bandar Es Eslam Airport\n\nMohéli Bandar Es Salam Airport is an airport in Mohéli, Comoros.\n\n"}
{"id": "5955405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5955405", "title": "Nomadic bag", "text": "Nomadic bag\n\nA Nomadic bag is a bag woven by various nomadic tribes of the Middle East and Central Asia for utilitarian and decorative purposes.\n\nThe nomadic tribes of the Middle East and Central Asia are perhaps more known for the hand knotted carpets and hand woven kilims (flatwoven textiles) that they made. These tribes include but are not limited to the Baloch, the Turkmen, the Afshars, the Bakhtyari, the Qashqai, the Kurds and many others. The bags that they wove were done in the same techniques as the larger rugs they also made. The most common technique is hand-knotted pile, but many tribal bags were also done in the various flat woven techniques including plain weave (kilim weave), soumac technique and other less common techniques.\n\nThese bags were used for various purposes. Often they were used for transporting goods while on migration. They also served as storage containers to be used in the tent or yurt. There are also specialized bags such as bags for carrying mirrors, bags for carrying the Qur'an, bags for carrying tent stakes and more. Often the bags are known by specific names based on the function they served. Some common bag names are \"cuval\" (camel bag), \"khorjin\" (double-sided donkey bags) and \"mafrash\" (bedding bag) to name just a few.\n\nOften, the back panel of a bag will have little or no design. Generally on bags with knotted pile faces, the back of the bag will be executed in a plain woven kilim technique.\n\nAlthough there are still some tribal weavers weaving nice bags, it is the antique bags and bag faces that are the most prized and the most collected.\n\nFrom the collectors point of view, the front or the \"face\" of the bag is much more interesting and more collectible. Often, with antique bags, the backs of the bag have been separated and discarded at some point and only the bagface remains.\n"}
{"id": "51294811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51294811", "title": "Nova Lamego Airport", "text": "Nova Lamego Airport\n\nNova Lamego Airport is an airport serving the city of Gabú, the capital of the Gabú Region of Guinea-Bissau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2636662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2636662", "title": "Pasărea Colibri", "text": "Pasărea Colibri\n\nPasărea Colibri (, \"The Hummingbird\") is a Romanian folk supergroup. Aside from typical Romanian folk instruments and acoustic/electric guitars, the band also made use of digital and analogue synthesizers, pedal steel guitars and fretless bass.\n\nThe band formed in 1992 while Mircea Baniciu, who, after conflicts with Transsylvania Phoenix leader Nicu Covaci had left the group, was performing in Râmnicu Vâlcea. At the end of Baniciu's set, actor Florian Pittiş and folk musician Mircea Vintila, together with Compact keyboardist Vlady Cnejevici, joined him for an improvised performance after which Pittiş announced the project was to be named Pasărea Colibri, as a reference to Baniciu's on and off collaboration with Transsylvania Phoenix. The four musicians started performing together and released their first album, \"În căutarea cuibului pierdut\" (Seeking The Lost Nest) in 1995. A live album containing no new work, as most of the songs the group performed were covers of Transsylvania Phoenix's old hits or Baniciu and Vintila's own compositions, it catapulted the group to superstardom in Romania making them widely popular as Pasărea Colibri. Florian Pittiş left the group in 2001 to focus on other personal projects, such as Radio3Net, and to work for football club Rapid Bucureşti of which he was longtime fan of. Folk songwriter Marius Baţu replaced him in the group and Pasărea Colibri released one more album before disbanding in 2003. Pittiş died in 2007.\n\nAs of 2009, the remaining members are on good terms and still perform together occasionally under the \"Pasărea Colibri\" name. Cnejevici also worked extensively with Baniciu on various other projects, such as producing his 2009 \"Best-Of\" album and performing with him live in concerts throughout Romania.\n\nOn 25 November 2011, Pasărea Colibri released an anniversary album named entitled \"19 ani\" (\"19 years\"). On this occasion, Mircea Baniciu and Mircea Vintilă held a concert at Sala Palatului, with a band consisting of Vlady Cnejevici, Teo Boar, Cristi Iorga and Marian Mihăilescu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8467430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8467430", "title": "Polotsk Airport", "text": "Polotsk Airport\n\nPolotsk Airport (also Polotsk South) is an airport in Belarus, located 9 km south of Polotsk. It is purely civilian use.\n\n"}
{"id": "53465000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53465000", "title": "Rajshahi Cantonment", "text": "Rajshahi Cantonment\n\nRajshahi Cantonment is the Bangladeshi military cantonment in Rajshahi. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "18062268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18062268", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Odessa-Simferopol", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Odessa-Simferopol\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Odessa-Simferopol () is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church in southern Ukraine and it includes Russian-annexed Crimea. It covers an area about one-third the size of Poland including areas impacted by 2014 Crimean crisis, and the 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine. There is now a de facto and hostile border splitting the diocese.\n\nBronislaw Bernacki is the current bishop of the diocese. He was appointed to the See of Odessa-Simferopol in May 2002 and is based in Odessa. Jacek Pyl is an auxiliary bishop and is based in Simferopol.\n\nThe history of the diocese begins in 2002, when the diocese of Odessa-Simferopol was erected from the Diocese of Kamyanets-Podilskyi. The diocese's \"basic work\" began about the time of the Fall of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nAuxiliary bishop Pyl described the diocese in 2014 as “missionary territory” with “many challenges.” He reported that there were about 64 priests and 3,000 faithful in the diocese. In 2014, in Crimea there were seven parishes and 13 priests and masses were celebrated mainly in Russian but also in English, Spanish, Ukrainian, and Polish.\n\nAs of 2014, Simferopol does not have a co-cathedral. “We have been waiting for the last 20 years to get permission to build a church,” Bishop Pyl is quoted as saying. Plans for a co-cathedral had been underway but were put on hold following Russian annexation of Crimea.\nThe diocese is a suffragan of the Archdiocese of Lviv of the Latins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2864223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2864223", "title": "Ronne Antarctic Research Expedition", "text": "Ronne Antarctic Research Expedition\n\nThe Ronne Antarctic Research Expedition (RARE) was an expedition from 1947–1948 which researched the area surrounding the head of the Weddell Sea in Antarctica.\n\nFinn Ronne led the RARE which was the final privately sponsored expedition from the United States and explored and mapped the last unknown coastline on earth and determined that the Weddell Sea and the Ross Sea were not connected. The expedition included Isaac Schlossbach, as second in command, who was to have Cape Schlossbach named after him. The expedition, based out of Stonington Island was the first to take women to over-winter. Ronne's wife, Edith Ronne was correspondent for the North American Newspaper Alliance for expedition and the chief pilot Darlington took his wife.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47100704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47100704", "title": "Saint Mary's Battery (Marsalforn)", "text": "Saint Mary's Battery (Marsalforn)\n\nSaint Mary's Battery (), also known as Qolla s-Safra Battery () or Gironda Battery (), was an artillery battery in Marsalforn, limits of Żebbuġ, Gozo, Malta. It was built by the Order of Saint John in 1715 as one of a series of coastal fortifications around the Maltese Islands.\n\nThe battery formed part of a chain of fortifications built to defend Marsalforn and nearby bays from Ottoman or Barbary attacks. Although the area was fortified by a number of towers, batteries, redoubts and entrenchments, all of these have been destroyed except for Qolla l-Bajda Battery between Qbajjar and Xwejni Bays.\n\nThe battery consisted of a semi-circular gun platform ringed by a parapet, and two blockhouses joined together by a wall. It has been demolished and no remains can be seen.\n"}
{"id": "50026612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50026612", "title": "Sathe", "text": "Sathe\n\nSathe is a town in Ethiopia.\n\nThe town sits north of the Dawa River, directly across the International border with Rhuma, Kenya. Sathe is located in the Liben Zone of the Somali Region of Ethiopia, approximately , by road, southeast of Addis Ababa, the capital and largest city in that country. The coordinates of the town are:3°57'06.0\"N, 41°11'30.0\"E (Latitude:3.951676; Longitude:41.191668). Other towns in Liben Zone include Softu and Dolo.\n\n"}
{"id": "45711968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45711968", "title": "Sloboden Pechat", "text": "Sloboden Pechat\n\nSloboden Pechat (Macedonian Cyrillic: \"Слободен Печат\") is a daily newspaper in Macedonia. \"Sloboden Pechat\" translated in English means \"Free Press\".\n\nThe daily newspaper Sloboden Pechat was founded in October 2013, with the first number dated October 19. \n\nIn November 2016, the company \"Sloboden Pechat doo\" became a part of the \"Adria Media Group DOO\" from Serbia.\n\nThe founders were a group of journalists with open minded and democratic tradition, like Branko Geroski (in 90s founder of the most popular daily newspaper Dnevnik, later sold to WAZ) and Gradimir Jovanovic (Radio Skopje brand journalist, chief editor and commentator, retired), with significant technical and logistic help of the advertising agency Media House from Skopje.\n\nCapital founders of the newspaper were Vlatko Kosevaliski, at the time also a General manager, and Gradimir Jovanovic. Branko Geroski was appointed as Editor in Chief.\n\nAfter taking over the share in \"Sloboden Pechat doo\", \"Adria Media Group DOO\" from Belgrade gives full support to the newspaper. As a result of that support, Sloboden Pechat grew to by far the largest print media and distribution house in the part of printed media, with a largest daily print run in Macedonia.\n\nThe timing of the beginning of the newspaper was a result of the actual social and political situation in Macedonia. The motto of Sloboden Pechat is “Always on the side of people”.\n\nThe printing started on a leased printing machine in own printing plant, with personal distribution, because the existing printing and distribution houses refused to print and distribute it. Hence, with few used vehicles, old PCs and outdated software, together with few courageous professionals, Sloboden Pechat grew up to be the leading daily newspaper, with largest circulation in the market, with a distribution fleet of 13 vehicles. As of July 2018, Sloboden Pechat DOO had around 50 employees, 19 in the newsroom (chief editor, deputies, journalists, reporters, photo reporters, technical editors, web designers, lectors etc.), 5 in Marketing department, 5 in Printing house, 13 in Distribution department, 4 in Finance and Administration department. The company has contracts with free-lance journalists, reporters from other cities in Macedonia and abroad, columnists, internet portals, as well as cooperation with the State Information Agency MIA and foreign news services.\n\nThe newspaper Sloboden Pechat in January 2017 launched the digital edition slobodenpecat.mk. The portal has been modernized and redesigned in order to offer new level of communication of the bestselling daily newspaper.\n\n"}
{"id": "33955925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33955925", "title": "Stadttheater Leoben", "text": "Stadttheater Leoben\n\nStadttheater Leoben is a theatre in Austria.\n"}
{"id": "4318733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4318733", "title": "United Nations Centre for Urgent Environmental Assistance", "text": "United Nations Centre for Urgent Environmental Assistance\n\nThe now defunct United Nations Centre for Urgent Environmental Assistance (UNEP/UNCUEA) worked to coordinate international response to man-made disasters. It was administrated by the United Nations Environmental Programme.\n\nUNCUELA operations were initially run by a small staff located in a Swiss government office in Geneva, Switzerland. Later, it was relocated to offices inside the International Environment House, found in Châtelaine.\n\nThe short-lived Centre was created to respond to an initiative proposed by Mikhail Gorbachev in the late 1980s. However, it never received necessary support due to criticism that it overlapped with already-existing agencies, like the International Maritime Organization and the International Atomic Energy Agency.\n"}
{"id": "38856009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38856009", "title": "Warrenton Training Center", "text": "Warrenton Training Center\n\nWarrenton Training Center (WTC) is a classified United States government communication complex located in the state of Virginia. Established in 1951, it comprises four discrete stations located in Fauquier and Culpeper counties.\n\nWTC has served multiple roles, most notably as a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) signals intelligence facility, numbers station, and communications laboratory. The center also houses at least one underground \"relocation\" bunker that serves U.S. continuity of government purposes, and is a communications and signals intelligence training school for various federal departments and agencies, including the CIA, National Security Agency (NSA), Department of Defense and Department of State. Additionally, it is a relay facility for the Department of State's Diplomatic Telecommunications Service. The United States Army administers WTC on behalf of the U.S. government.\n\nWarrenton Training Center was established on June 1, 1951, as part of a \"Federal Relocation Arc\" of hardened underground bunkers built to support continuity of government in the event of a nuclear attack on Washington, D.C. The center was ostensibly designated a Department of Defense Communication Training Activity and served as a communications training school. The CIA listed personnel and other expenses at Warrenton Training Center in its fiscal year 1955 budget.\n\nInitially, the United States Army served as the executive agent for the administration and management of the center on behalf of the Department of Defense. In 1973, the center was transferred to the Department of the Army under the administration of its signals intelligence branch, the Army Security Agency, a subordinate to the NSA, and the base was renamed U.S. Army Training Group, Warrenton Training Center. In 1982, the center was restored its original name and reverted to Department of Defense control with the Army as the executive agent for administration on behalf of the National Communications System (NCS).\n\nUnder the NCS (dissolved and functions transferred to the United States Department of Homeland Security in 2012), the center is mandated to provide communication for the federal government under any circumstances, including a nuclear attack. Its underground bunkers house communications infrastructure that provides service for most major federal departments. In 2002, the Brookings Institution listed an unspecified WTC \"relocation bunker\" as a facility with an active nuclear weapons, weapons-related or naval nuclear propulsion mission.\n\nThe CIA has used Warrenton Training Center as a communications facility since the 1950s. Short-wave radio enthusiasts have identified WTC antennas broadcasting suspected intelligence transmissions. In 1989, a WTC spokesperson acknowledged that the stations \"are operated ... to communicate with embassies, and for espionage transmissions\" to American intelligence agents in Cuba and Central America. In 1998, laboratories at WTC were reported to produce concealed radio equipment used to send and receive communications, typically in the form of furniture items.\n\nIn 1986, the KGB threw U.S. investigators off the trail of CIA officer and Soviet mole Aldrich Ames by constructing an elaborate diversion whereby a Soviet case officer told a CIA contact that the mole was stationed at Warrenton Training Center. Ames was stationed in Rome at the time. U.S. mole hunters investigated 90 employees at WTC for almost a year and came up with ten suspects, although the lead investigator noted that \"there are so many problem personalities that no one stands out.\"\n\nWTC has continued its role as a communications training facility for various government agencies, including the CIA, NSA, Department of Defense, and the Department of States's Foreign Service Institute. In 1995, a former NSA employee told \"The Baltimore Sun\" that WTC's communications training included listening in on the phone calls of U.S. citizens, using a loophole in the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act that permitted domestic eavesdropping so long as the tapes were destroyed immediately afterward.\n\nIn April 2013, Dominion Virginia Power representatives indicated that facility expansion plans at WTC had accelerated the need for electrical transmission line upgrades in the area, and in November 2015, Vadata, a subsidiary of Amazon, announced plans to build a $200 million Department of Defense data center on the site. The center addresses a federal government requirement that the cloud infrastructure be entirely separate from the public cloud.\n\nWarrenton Training Center is spread across four separate facilities in two different counties. Station A, Station B and Station C are located in Fauquier County, while Station D is located in Culpeper County.\n\nStation A, near Warrenton, is an administrative, training and residential compound. Numerous structures on site include both residential and office buildings. Station A is used as a training facility by multiple agencies, including the Department of State and the CIA's Directorate of Intelligence and Directorate of Support.\n\nStation B, also near Warrenton, houses the headquarters of WTC and, at , is the largest of the four facilities. It consists of several multi-story buildings concealed atop the heavily forested View Tree Mountain, as well as underground bunkers that house communications infrastructure. Operations at Station B include a communications laboratory, communications training, electronics testing, and equipment maintenance. The facility is a node on a fiber-optic cable that runs from Stations C and D, and which also connects WTC with other facilities in the Washington, D.C. area, such as the Tysons Corner Communications Tower. Station B also houses the Brushwood conference facility, constructed in the 1990s. The United States Environmental Protection Agency classifies Station B as a superfund site due to the presence of an inactive landfill and two chemical pits that have released trichloroethylene into nearby residential drinking water wells.\n\nStation C was at one time a CIA numbers station, which transmitted coded signals to U.S. embassies overseas and intelligence agents in the field. Transmissions carried a female voice, dubbed \"Cynthia\" by radio hobbyists, that would recite groups of numbers in English. The transmissions were last heard in 2003.\n\nStation D, also known as Brandy Station due to its proximity to the community of the same name, is the primary high frequency receiver facility for the CIA Office of Communications, and also hosts a variety of satellite communications ground station facilities. Station D is also a core regional relay facility for the Department of State's Diplomatic Telecommunications Service, a system of secure integrated networks that supports U.S. government departments and agencies operating from diplomatic missions and consulate facilities outside the United States.\n\n\n"}
