{"id": "192675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192675", "title": "1974 in politics", "text": "1974 in politics\n\n\"See also:\" 1973 in politics, other events of 1974, 1975 in politics, list of years in politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "55185370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55185370", "title": "2017–18 Spanish constitutional crisis", "text": "2017–18 Spanish constitutional crisis\n\nThe 2017–18 Spanish constitutional crisis, also known as the Catalan crisis, is an ongoing political conflict between the Government of Spain and the Generalitat de Catalunya under former President Carles Puigdemont—the government of the autonomous community of Catalonia until 28 October 2017—over the issue of Catalan independence. It started after the law intending to allow the 2017 Catalan independence referendum was denounced by the Spanish government under Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and subsequently suspended by the Constitutional Court until it ruled on the issue. Some international media outlets have described the events as \"one of the worst political crises in modern Spanish history\".\n\nPuigdemont's government announced that neither central Spanish authorities nor the courts would halt their plans and that it intended to hold the vote anyway, sparking a legal backlash that quickly spread from the Spanish and Catalan governments to Catalan municipalities—as local mayors were urged by the Generalitat to provide logistical support and help for the electoral process to be carried out—as well as to the Constitutional Court, the High Court of Justice of Catalonia and state prosecutors. By 15 September, as pro-Catalan independence parties began their referendum campaigns, the Spanish government had launched an all-out legal offensive to thwart the upcoming vote, including threats of a financial takeover of much of the Catalan budget, police seizing pro-referendum posters, pamphlets and leaflets which had been regarded as illegal and criminal investigations ordered on the over 700 local mayors who had publicly agreed to help stage the referendum. Tensions between the two sides reached a critical point after Spanish police raided the Catalan government headquarters in Barcelona on 20 September, at the start of Operation Anubis, and arrested fourteen senior Catalan officials. This led to protests outside the Catalan economy department which saw Civil Guard officers trapped inside the building for hours and several vehicles vandalized. The referendum was eventually held, albeit without meeting minimum standards for elections and amid low turnout and police crackdown resulting in hundreds injured.\n\nOn 10 October, Puigdemont ambiguously declared and suspended independence during a speech in the Parliament of Catalonia, arguing his move was directed at entering talks with Spain. The Spanish government required Puigdemont to clarify whether he had declared independence or not, to which it received no clear answer. A further requirement was met with an implicit threat from the Generalitat that it would lift the suspension on the independence declaration if Spain \"continued its repression\", in response to the imprisonment of the leaders of pro-independence Catalan National Assembly (ANC) and Òmnium Cultural, accused of sedition by the National Court because of their involvement in the 20 September events. On 21 October, it was announced by Prime Minister Rajoy that Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution would be invoked, leading to direct rule over Catalonia by the Spanish government once approved by the Senate.\n\nOn 27 October, the Catalan parliament voted in a secret ballot to unilaterally declare independence from Spain, with some deputies boycotting a vote considered illegal for violating the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Spain, as the lawyers of the Parliament of Catalonia warned. As a result, the government of Spain invoked the Constitution to remove the regional authorities and enforce direct rule the next day, with a regional election being subsequently called for 21 December 2017 to elect a new Parliament of Catalonia. Puigdemont and part of his cabinet fled to Belgium after being ousted, as the Spanish Attorney General pressed for charges of sedition, rebellion and misuse of public funds against them.\n\nThe recent increase in support for Catalan independence has its roots in a Constitutional Court ruling in 2010, which struck down parts of the regional 2006 Statute of Autonomy that granted new powers of self-rule to the region. The ruling came after four years of deliberation concerning a constitutional appeal filed by the conservative People's Party (PP) under Mariano Rajoy—then the country's second-largest party, in opposition to the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero's Spanish Socialist Workers' Party—and was met with anger and street protests in Catalonia. Shortly afterward the PP took power in Spain, and after a massive independence demonstration took place in Barcelona on 11 September 2012—Catalonia's National Day—the Catalan government under Artur Mas called a snap regional election and set out to initiate Catalonia's process towards independence.\n\nAfter a pro-independence coalition formed by the Junts pel Sí alliance and the Popular Unity Candidacy won a slim majority in the Parliament in the 2015 regional election, Carles Puigdemont replaced Mas as President of the Generalitat. Puigdemont promised to organise a binding independence referendum based on results from a multi-question, non-binding vote in 2014, when about 80% of those who voted were believed to have backed independence for the region, and up to 91.8% supported Catalonia becoming a state—albeit on an estimated turnout around or below 40%. The Catalan government invoked the right of people to self-determination and Catalonia's political, economical and cultural background to back up its proposal for a referendum on Catalan independence. The Government of Spain, now with Mariano Rajoy as Prime Minister, opposed such a vote, arguing that any referendum on Catalan independence would go against the country's 1978 Constitution, as it made no provision for a vote on self-determination.\n\nOn 9 June 2017, Puigdemont announced that the planned independence referendum would be held on 1 October the same year. The Catalan government criticised the attitude of the Spanish government in refusing to negotiate a referendum and accused it of behaving undemocratically.\n\nOn 6 September 2017, the ruling Junts pel Sí (JxSí) coalition and its parliamentary partner, the Popular Unity Candidacy (CUP), passed the Law on the Referendum on Self-determination of Catalonia in the Parliament of Catalonia that was to provide the legal framework for the intended independence referendum scheduled for 1 October. The way in which the law had been pushed through Parliament became an issue of controversy. Catalan opposition parties accused JxSí and CUP of fast-tracking the law through parliament, not allowing them to appeal the law before being put up to vote. Some months later the Spanish Constitutional Court endorsed the reform of the Parliament regulation that allowed passing the law. Shortly after the parliamentary vote, in which most of the opposition MPs walked out from the chamber without voting on the bill, the Catalan regional government signed the decree calling the referendum.\n\nThe People's Party-led Spanish government under Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy announced that it would appeal the bill to the Constitutional Court, which agreed to hear all four of its unconstitutionality appeals and subsequently suspended the law and the referendum until it could rule upon the matter. Despite the referendum suspension, the Catalan government announced it would proceed with the vote anyway. This prompted Attorney General José Manuel Maza to ask security forces to investigate possible preparations from the Catalan government to hold the vote, as well as announcing he would present criminal charges against members of both the regional parliament and government for voting and signing off the referendum. The national government proceeded to deploy a series of legal measures intended to nullify the referendum, while also warning local councils in Catalonia to either impede or paralyse efforts to carry out the vote. Previously, local mayors had been given 48 hours by the regional government to confirm the availability of polling stations for 1 October. On 7 September and under a similar procedure as the day previously, pro-independence lawmakers in the Parliament of Catalonia passed the legal framework that was to prevail the Spanish one should a majority vote for the 'Yes' to independence choice.\n\nWithin the next two days, nearly 74% of Catalan municipalities—comprising about 43% of the Catalan population—had agreed to provide the necessary polling stations for the referendum, whereas many of the most-populated urban areas—representing 24% of Catalan inhabitants—had voiced their opposition to the vote. The largest city and capital of Catalonia, Barcelona—accounting for about 20% of the region's population—was caught in the middle, with its local mayor, Ada Colau, refusing to make a statement whether the municipality would provide logistic support to the referendum or not while rejecting putting public servants at risk; she, however, voiced her support for the people's right to vote in a fair and legal referendum. Concurrently, President of Catalonia Carles Puigdemont, Vice-President Oriol Junqueras, the entire Catalan government as well as parliamentary officials allowing the referendum law to be put to vote in Parliament—including Parliament Speaker Carme Forcadell—faced charges of disobedience, misusing public funds and making deliberately unlawful decisions as elected officials as the High Court of Justice of Catalonia agreed to hear the criminal complaints filled by state prosecutors.\n\nOn 8 September the Attorney General of Catalonia, José María Romero de Tejada, presented two complaints to the High Court of Justice of Catalonia (TSJC) against him Government and the Bureau of Parliament for crimes of disobedience, prevarication and misappropriation of public funds, as announced the day before the Attorney General José Manuel Maza. These complaints included the guarantee request for the members of the Government as well as a request for a notification to all mayors of Catalonia to prevent any \"personal or material resource, including local\" resources being provided for the celebration of referendum The court was also asked to notify the Catalan media managers of the prohibition of inserting institutional advertising or propaganda of the referendum.\n\nThese complaints were admitted by the TSJC on 14 September without accepting the request for a deposit for the members of the Government.\n\nA decision on 13 September from Spain's public prosecutors to order a criminal probe of all local mayors who had publicly announced they would help stage the independence referendum—totalling over 700—came the day after the Constitutional Court had accepted the Spanish government's request to suspend the second of the two laws that had been approved by the secessionist majority in the Catalan parliament the previous week. The probe meant that prosecutors could choose to present criminal charges—or even arrest, if failing to answer the summons—local mayors who disobeyed the Constitutional Court's ruling. As part of a series of moves to block the Catalan referendum, prosecutors had also instructed police officials to seize ballot boxes, election flyers and other items that could be of use in the illegal vote, whereas the Constitutional Court had instructed regional government officials to show how they were preventing the vote from going ahead within a 48-hour deadline. In response, the Catalan government sent a letter to Treasury Minister Cristóbal Montoro announcing that it would stop sending weekly financial accounts to Spain's central government, a previously-established obligation that was meant to verify whether the region was using public money for the promotion of its independence drive as well as a requirement for the region's access to a funding programme to autonomous communities established in 2012. The Spanish government then proceeded to take direct control of most of Catalonia's invoice payments.\n\nIn a search on 19 September, Spanish police seized significant election material which had been in store by referendum organizers at the offices of a private delivery company in Terrassa. These included voting cards contained in envelopes with the Catalan government's logo. The next day, the Civil Guard raided Generalitat offices and arrested fourteen senior officials from the Catalan government—most notably, these included , deputy to regional Vice-President Oriol Junqueras. This came after mayors from towns supporting the referendum were questioned in court by state prosecutors. Regional premier Carles Puigdemont condemned the actions as \"anti-democratic and totalitarian\", accusing the Spanish government of 'de facto' imposing a state of emergency and of suspending Catalonia's autonomy after it took effective control over Catalan finances. Public protests occurred in Barcelona after news of the arrests emerged, with left-wing political party Podemos and Barcelona mayor Ada Colau joining the growing criticism of Mariano Rajoy's government crackdown on public servants, dubbing it as an \"authoritarian regression\". The previous day, the Congress of Deputies had voted down a motion from Ciudadanos to support the Spanish government's response to the referendum, which was rejected by 166 votes to 158. Rajoy defended his government's actions in that \"What we're seeing in Catalonia is an attempt to eliminate the constitution and the autonomous statute of Catalonia... Logically, the state has to react. There is no democratic state in the world that would accept what these people are trying to do. They've been warned and they know the referendum can't take place\". Rajoy also called for the Catalonia government to give up its \"escalation of radicalism and disobedience\", calling for them to \"Go back to the law and democracy\" and dubbing the referendum a \"chimera\", as tens of thousands gathered in the streets of Barcelona and other Catalan cities to protest police actions. The Spanish government did not rule out invoking Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, which would allow the central government to adopt \"the necessary measures to compel regional authorities to obey the law\"—in practice, allowing for the autonomy's effective suspension and direct rule of the region.\n\nOn 21 September, the Catalan government acknowledged that the raid and arrests in the previous day severely hampered the referendum's logistics by preventing any alternative election data centre to be established in time for the vote to take place. Nonetheless, Catalan Vice-President Junqueras called for people to turn out and mobilise on 1 October, turning the social response into a \"censure motion to Rajoy\", stating that \"If there is any possibility of change in Spain, democracy must triumph in Catalonia\". As street protests continued throughout Catalonia, additional police reinforcements were sent by the Spanish government to block any moves to hold the referendum on 1 October. Spanish prosecutors formally accused some protesters in Barcelona of sedition, after several Civil Guard patrol cars had been vandalised on Wednesday night. By 23 September, the Spanish government announced that the Mossos d'Esquadra—the regional police force—were to be subordinated to a single command dependent of the Spanish government and that the Interior Ministry would assume co-ordination over all security forces in Catalonia. The previous day, several hundred students had announced a permanent occupation of the historic building of the University of Barcelona, protesting the state's actions.\n\nDespite the suspension, the Catalan referendum was held on 1 October 2017, as scheduled by the Generalitat. Over 12,000 officers from the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard were deployed throughout Catalonia in an effort to close off polling stations and seize all election material to prevent the vote from taking place. The Spanish government was forced to call off police raids after clashes with protesters resulted in two people seriously injured, one for a gum ball shot against the eye and the other one due to a heart attack. 893 civilians and 431 agents of the Nacional Police and the Civil Guard were reported to have been injured initially. According to some Spanish media these previously reported figures may have been exaggerated. The Guardian's columnist, Peter Preston, said the number of injured \"hadn't been independently checked\" while he still described the police action as \"violent and frightening\".\n\nHowever, the Official College of Doctors of Barcelona (\"Col·legi de Metges de Barcelona\") stated that \"professionalism and independence of doctors can not be questioned because they act under a deontological code to attend and diagnose patients\". The judge who is currently investigating the accusations of police violence had already identified 218 people injured on October 10th, 20 of whom were police officers.\n\nThe events of 1 October sparked a public outcry in Catalonia, with hundreds of thousands taking to the streets to protest Spanish police violence.\nOn 3 October 2017, as huge protest rallies and a general strike took place in Catalonia, King Felipe VI delivered an unusually strongly worded televised address in which he condemned the referendum organizers for acting \"outside the law\", accusing them of \"unacceptable disloyalty\" and of \"eroding the harmony and co-existence within Catalan society itself\". He also warned the referendum could put the economy of the entire north-east region of Spain at risk. Reactions to the King's speech were mixed. Party officials from the PP and Ciudadanos praised the King's \"commitment to legality\", whereas leaders from Unidos Podemos and Catalunya en Comú criticised it as \"unworthy and irresponsible\", paving the way for a harsh intervention in Catalan autonomy. PSOE's leaders expressed support for the King's words in public, but were reported to be privately dissatisfied that the King had not made any call to encourage understanding or dialogue between the Spanish and Catalan governments. On 5 October the Constitutional Court of Spain suspended a future parliamentary session (scheduled for 9 October) that was planned in order to push for a Declaration of Independence.\n\nOn 5 October, Banco Sabadell, the second-largest bank based in Catalonia, announced its decision to move its legal headquarters out of the region amid economic uncertainty over the future of Catalonia's political situation ahead of a projected unilateral declaration of independence the ensuing week, which had seen sharp falls in the group's share prices the previous day and rating agencies downgrading the region. Concurrently, CaixaBank, the biggest bank in the region and the third largest in Spain, also announced it was considering redomiciling outside Catalonia. This sparked a massive business exit in the ensuing hours, with companies such as Abertis, Gas Natural, Grifols, Fersa Energias Renovables, Agbar, Freixenet, Codorníu, Idilia Foods, San Miguel Beer and Planeta Group also announcing or considering their intention to move their HQs out of Catalonia. The Spanish government announced on Friday 6 October that it would issue a decree allowing companies based in Catalonia to move out of the region without holding a shareholders' meeting. Within two weeks, more than 1,000 business and firms would move out of Catalonia. Simultaneously, far-right groups increasingly took to the streets throughout Spain in a quest to defend Spanish unity, with some gatherings leading to violent scuffles in Barcelona and Valencia. This sparked concerns among analysts that the Catalan crisis could lead to a rise of the far-right in Spain after decades on the margins. The Mossos d'Esquadra were put under investigation for disobedience, accused of not complying with a command from the High Court of Justice of Catalonia to prevent the referendum and with their pasivity allowing polling stations to open.\nIn an ambiguous speech during a parliamentary session in the Parliament of Catalonia on 10 October, Puigdemont declared that \"Catalonia had earned the right to be an independent state\" and that he defended \"the mandate of the people of Catalonia to become an independent republic\". However, he immediately announced that parliament would suspend a formal declaration of independence in order to pursue dialogue with the Spanish government. Puigdemont and other pro-independence deputies then signed a symbolic declaration of independence with no legal effect. Puigdemont's move came after pressure resulting from the business exit on the previous days as well as pleas from Barcelona's mayor Ada Colau and European Council President Donald Tusk urging him to step back from declaring independence. This was met with disappointment from thousands of pro-independence supporters who had gathered nearby to watch the session on giant screens, as well as criticism from the CUP, who voiced their discontent at Puigdemont's decision not to proclaim a Catalan republic right away and did not rule out abandoning the Parliament until the signed declaration of independence was effective.\n\nOn 17 October, the National Court ordered Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart—leaders of pro-independence groups Catalan National Assembly (ANC) and Òmnium Cultural—to be preventively put into jail without bail pending an investigation into alleged sedition for having played central roles in orchestrating massive protests aimed at hindering Civil Guard activity. They were accused of leading the protest of tens of thousands of people that surrounded the Catalan economy department offices on 20–21 September 2017 heeding a call made by Òmnium Cultural and ANC, during which three vehicles of the Civil Guard were vandalised and their occupants forced to flee into the Economy Department building, a court clerk remained trapped until midnight inside the building and had to flee by the roof, while several agents were trapped throughout the night as demonstrators shouted outside \"You won't get out!\". The Civil Guard agents cornered into the building made 6 calls for help to the autonomous police force of Catalonia Mossos d'Esquadra which were ignored, the first of them performed at 9:14 am with the subject: \"Urgent - Request for support to Mossos\". According to the judge the actions of Sànchez and Cruixat are into the scope of sedition, a felony regulated by the article 544 and subsequents of the Spanish Criminal Code:\nPro-independence politicians and organizations, including Catalan President Carles Puigdemont, have referred to Cuixart and Sànchez as political prisoners. The Spanish Justice Minister Rafael Catalá argued that they were not \"political prisoners\" but \"imprisoned politicians\". An article published in \"El País\" argued that according to the criteria established by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) Sànchez and Cuixart could not be considered \"political prisoners\". Amnesty International issued an official statement considering the charge of sedition and the preventive imprisonment as \"excessive\" and called for their immediate release, but several days later made it clear that it did not consider them \"political prisoners\". Some Catalan media, such as \"La Vanguardia\", reported that footage from the incident showed Cuixart and Sànchez trying to call off the protests, contradicting that part of the judicial order imprisoning them which said that they had not tried \"to call off the demonstration\".\n\nOn 11 October, after an extraordinary cabinet meeting intended to address the events on the previous day, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy announced he was formally requiring the Catalan government to confirm whether it had declared independence before 16 October at 10am, with a further 3-day deadline until 19 October to revoke all deemed illegal acts if an affirmative answer—or no answer at all—was obtained. This requirement was a formal requisite needed to trigger article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, a so-called \"nuclear option\" that would allow the Spanish government to suspend Catalonia's political autonomy and impose direct rule from Madrid. Pressure mounted within the pro-independence coalition as the CUP demanded an unambiguous affirmation of Catalan independence, threatening to withdraw its parliamentary support from Puigdemont's government if he rescinded his independence claim. In his formal response to Rajoy's requirement hurrying the initial five-day deadline, Puigdemont failed to clarify whether independence had been declared and instead called for negotiations over the following two months. The Spanish government replied that this was not a valid response to its requirement and doubted that Puigdemont's offer for dialogue was sincere due to his lack of \"clarity\". The refusal from the Catalan government to either confirm or deny independence triggered a second deadline for them to backtrack before direct rule was imposed. The Spanish government subsequently offered to abort the incoming move to suspend self-rule if the Catalan government called for a regional election, but this was ruled out by the latter.\n\nOn 19 October, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy confirmed that the Spanish government would trigger Article 155 and move to suspend Catalonia's autonomy after a cabinet meeting scheduled for 21 October, following a letter from Puigdemont in which he said that the independence declaration remained suspended but that the Catalan parliament could choose to vote on it if Spain continued its \"repression\". Subsequently, Rajoy announced the Spanish government would take direct control over the Generalitat of Catalonia, proceeding to remove Puigdemont and the entire Catalan government from their offices and call a regional election within six months, pending Senate approval.\nOn 26 October, one day ahead of the scheduled enforcement of Article 155 by the Spanish Senate, it was announced that Puigdemont had chosen to dissolve the Parliament of Catalonia within the coming hours and call for an emergency snap election on or around 20 December in order to prevent direct rule from Madrid. This move sparked an outcry within pro-independence ranks, as they wished to hold a vote for a unilateral declaration of independence in response to the Spanish government's move to trigger Article 155. In the end Puigdemont chose not to dissolve Parliament, allegedly because of the Spanish government's refusal to call off the Article 155 procedure even though an election was called by Puigdemont. A debate over a possible declaration of independence then went ahead as planned in the Parliament of Catalonia later that day and into the next morning, simultaneous to the Spanish Senate debating the enforcement of Article 155. At the end of the debate, the Catalan parliament voted for a unilateral declaration of independence, by secret ballot, which was backed 70–10, with two MPs casting a blank ballot, with all MPs from Citizens, the Socialists' Party of Catalonia and the People's Party boycotting the vote because of its illegality for violating the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Spain, as the lawyers of the Parliament of Catalonia warned.\n\nSubsequently, on 28 October, Mariano Rajoy dismissed the Executive Council of Catalonia, dissolved the Parliament of Catalonia and called a snap regional election for 21 December 2017, after obtaining the Senate endorsement to the invoking of Article 155, and handed coordination over Generalitat of Catalonia functions to Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría. On 30 October, as Spanish Attorney General José Manuel Maza called for charges of rebellion, sedition and embezzlement against Puigdemont and other Catalan leaders, it transpired that the ousted President and five of his ministers had fled to Belgium. Puigdemont, however, declared that he was not in Belgium \"to seek asylum\" and that he would respect the 21 December election, but also noting that he would not return home until \"a fair judicial process was guaranteed\" in Spain. Concurrently, lack of civil unrest and work resuming as normal throughout Catalonia showed direct rule from Madrid taking hold, with Spanish authorities reasserting administrative control over Catalan territory with little resistance. On 31 October, the independence declaration was suspended by the Constitutional Court of Spain.\n\nSpain's National Court () summoned Puigdemont and 13 other members of his dismissed government to appear on 2 November to respond to the criminal charges pressed against them. It was later ordered by the judge that eight members of the deposed Catalan government—including Puigdemont's deputy and ERC leader, Oriol Junqueras—be remanded in custody without bail after testifying for posing a flight risk, with a ninth—Santi Vila—being granted a €50,000 bail. Spanish prosecutors sought a European Arrest Warrant for Puigdemont and four other members who had remained in Belgium and refused to attend the hearing. The EAW demanding Puigdemont and his allies' arrest was officially issued to Belgium the next day, on 3 November, which Belgium said they would \"study\" before making any decisions. The detention of the former Generalitat members led to increased protests in Catalonia, with thousands calling for \"freedom\" for whom they viewed as \"political prisoners\". Puigdemont declared from an undisclosed location in Belgium that he regarded the detentions as \"an act that breaks with the basic principles of democracy\". In contrast, a separate case against other Catalan lawmakers was adjourned by the Supreme Court () after all six of them, including Catalan parliament speaker Carme Forcadell, showed up to the summons. Puigdemont and the four other cabinet members turned themselves in to Belgian authorities on 5 November, awaiting a decision by the federal prosecutor on whether to hand them over to Spain or decline the warrant. They were released by the judge on the same day on conditions, such as they would not be able to leave the country without prior consent and would have to provide details to the police about their accommodation. On 5 December, six jailed members of the deposed government were freed on bail, while four others, including Oriol Junqueras, were required to remain imprisoned. The next day, Spain withdrew the EAW against Puigdemont just over a month after issuing it to Belgian authorities.\n\nThe 21 December regional election called by Rajoy resulted in pro-independence parties retaining a reduced majority with 70 seats overall, with Puigdemont's coalition, Junts per Catalunya (JxSí), performing above expectations. With 36 seats, the main anti-independence party, Citizens, emerged as the largest in the Parliament, whereas Rajoy's People's Party was severely mauled after being reduced to 4.2% of the share and 4 out of 135 seats.\n\nInés Arrimadas, Citizens' leader in the region, announced she would not try to form a government on her own, instead waiting and see how negotiations between pro-independence parties evolved, due to them commanding a majority against her hypothetical candidacy. As the candidate of the most-voted party within the pro-independence bloc, Puigdemont intended to be re-elected as President, but this was hampered by the fact he risked being arrested by Spanish authorities upon returning from Brussels. Further, pro-independence parties could only command 62 seats—six short of a majority—as in practice eight of their elected deputies were either in Brussels with Puigdemont or in preventive detention.\n\nAfter the Catalan parliament elected Roger Torrent as new speaker, Puigdemont was proposed as candidate for re-election as President of the Generalitat. However, facing arrest on possible charges of rebellion, sedition and misuse of public funds, the Catalan parliament delayed Puigdemont's investiture after Constitutional Court ruled that he could not assume the presidency from abroad. With other pro-independence leaders assuring the pro-independence movement should outlive Puigdemont in order to end the political deadlock, the former Catalan president announced on 1 March he would step his claim aside in order to allow detained activist Jordi Sànchez, from his Junts per Catalunya alliance, to become President instead. However, as Spain's Supreme Court did not allow Sànchez to be freed from jail to attend his investiture ceremony, Sànchez ended up giving up his candidacy on 21 March in favour of former Catalan government spokesman Jordi Turull, who was also under investigation for his role in the referendum.\nTurull was defeated in the first ballot of a hastily convened investiture session held on 22 March, with only his Junts per Catalunya alliance and ERC voting for him and the Popular Unity Candidacy abstaining, resulting in a 64–65 defeat. The next day and less than 24 hours before he was due to attend the second ballot, the Supreme Court announced that thirteen senior Catalan leaders—including Turull—would be charged with rebellion over their roles in the 2017 unilateral referendum and subsequent declaration of independence. Llarena sent five of them, including Turull and Carme Forcadell, previous Catalan Parliament speaker, to preventive jail; being the others already in preventive jail or exile. In anticipation of this ruling and in order to avoid appearing in court, Marta Rovira—ERC's general secretary and deputy leader to jailed Oriol Junqueras—fled the country to Switzerland in \"self-exile\". As a result, the Parliament speaker Roger Torrent cancelled Turull's second investiture ballot. Thousands took the streets of dozens of Catalan cities to show discomfort with the decision of the court.\n\nThe European Arrest Warrant against Puigdemont was reactivated just as he was in a visit to Finland, but he had already left the country for Belgium before Finnish authorities received it. On his way to Belgium on 25 March he was caught and detained in Germany while crossing the border from Denmark. On 4 April he was released on bail after the state court in Schleswig rejected extraditing him for rebellion, though he may still be extradited on corruption charges.\n\nRussian President Vladimir Putin condemned Catalonia's independence referendum as \"illegal\". However, an analysis by the George Washington University School of Media and Public Affairs of over five million social media messages found that some Russian media and accounts on social networks related to Venezuela allegedly collaborated on disseminating negative propaganda against the Spanish government days before and after the referendum. Russia's \"RT\" and \"Sputnik\" would use Venezuelan social bots that would typically promote the Bolivarian government in Venezuela to criticize the Spanish government and police violence against citizens in Catalonia. Social bots, anonymous accounts and official state media accounts shared 97% of the anti-Spain messages while only 3% of the messages were shared by real social media members. Leaders of the George Washington University study displayed concern about the findings, stating that \"democratic systems have the obligation to investigate these signs and implement systematic methods of monitoring and responding to alleged disruptions of foreign agents\" and that it appeared the authors of the propaganda are the same as the ones who allegedly interfered in the 2016 United States presidential election and Brexit.\n\nThe Spanish Ministry of Defence and the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation later said it had confirmed that Russian actors and Venezuela had attempted to destabilize the nation and Europe by means of propaganda, though it would not confirm if the Russian government was directly involved and warned that similar misinformation actions may take place in future elections. NATO officials also made comments stating that Russia has been attempting to undermine Western governments through disinformation campaigns.\n\nMembers of Catalonia's separatist groups have denied allegations of foreign interference. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in response: \"Probably they are arranging this kind of scandalous, sensational hysteria in order to distract the attention of their electorate from their inability to resolve their problems at home.\" Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on November 15: \"The Spanish authorities, NATO, and the newspapers did not bring up a single worthwhile argument to back these claims. We consider these claims to be groundless, and more likely a deliberate or inadvertent continuation of the same hysteria that is now happening in the United States and a number of other countries.\"\n"}
{"id": "21865024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21865024", "title": "Aeronautics Defense Skystar 300", "text": "Aeronautics Defense Skystar 300\n\nThe Skystar 300 is a surveillance blimp. It is an ISR system that provides surveillance capabilities accomplished by simple equipment, which requires minimal operating skills and maintenance procedures. The system is composed of the Aerostat Balloon, filled with helium gas, dual sensor payload, control unit and the data link between the control unit and the balloon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3531662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3531662", "title": "Affordable housing", "text": "Affordable housing\n\nAffordable housing is housing which is deemed affordable to those with a median household income as rated by the national government or a local government by a recognized housing affordability index. Most of the literature on affordable housing refers to mortgages and number of forms that exist along a continuum – from emergency shelters, to transitional housing, to non-market rental (also known as social or subsidized housing), to formal and informal rental, indigenous housing, and ending with affordable home ownership.\n\nIn Australia, the National Affordable Housing Summit Group developed their definition of affordable housing as housing that is, \"...reasonably adequate in standard and location for lower or middle income households and does not cost so much that a household is unlikely to be able to meet other basic needs on a sustainable basis.\" In the United Kingdom affordable housing includes \"social rented and intermediate housing, provided to specified eligible households whose needs are not met by the market.\"\n\nThe notion of housing affordability became widespread in the 1980s in Europe and North America. In the words of Alain Bertaud, of New York University and former principal planner at the World Bank,\"It is time for planners to abandon abstract objectives and to focus their efforts on two measurable outcomes that have always mattered since the growth of large cities during the 19th century’s industrial revolution: workers’ spatial mobility and housing affordability.\"Housing choice is a response to an extremely complex set of economic, social, and psychological impulses. For example, some households may choose to spend more on housing because they feel they can afford to, while others may not have a choice.\n\nThe Median Multiple indicator, recommended by the World Bank and the United Nations, rates affordability of housing by dividing the median house price by gross [before tax] annual median household income). \"A common measure of community-wide affordability is the number of homes that a household with a certain percentage of median income can afford. For example, in a perfectly balanced housing market, the median household (the wealthier half of households) could officially afford the median housing option, while those poorer than the median income could not afford the median home. 50% affordability for the median home indicates a balanced market.\"Determining housing affordability is complex and the commonly used housing-expenditure-to-income-ratio tool has been challenged. In the United States and Canada, a commonly accepted guideline for housing affordability is a housing cost that does not exceed 30% of a household's gross income. Canada, for example, switched to a 25% rule from a 20% rule in the 1950s. In the 1980s this was replaced by a 30% rule. India uses a 40% rule.\n\nOne of the greatest strengths of the HAI developed by MIT is its ability to capture the Total Cost of Ownership of individuals' housing choices. In computing the index the obvious cost of rents and mortgage payments are modified by the hidden costs of those choices.\n\nIncome is the primary factor—not price and availability, that determines housing affordability. In a market economy the distribution of income is the key determinant of the quantity and quality of housing obtained. Therefore, understanding affordable housing challenges requires understanding trends and disparities in income and wealth. Housing is often the single biggest expenditure of low and middle income families. For low and middle income families, their house is also the greatest source of wealth.\n\nThe most common approach to measure the affordability of housing has been to consider the percentage of income that a household spends on housing expenditures. Another method of studying affordability looks at the regular hourly wage of full-time workers who are paid only the minimum wage (as set by their local, regional, or national government). The hope is that full-time workers will be able to afford at least a small apartment in the area where they work. Some countries look at those living in relative poverty, which is usually defined as making less than 60% of the median household income. In their policy reports, they consider the presence or absence of housing for people making 60% of the median income.\n\nHousing affordability can be measured by the changing relationships between house prices and rents, and between house prices and incomes. There has been an increase among policy makers in affordable housing as the price of housing has increased dramatically creating a crisis in affordable housing.\n\nSince 2000 the \"world experienced an unprecedented house price boom in terms of magnitude and duration, but also of synchronisation across countries.\" \"Never before had house prices risen so fast, for so long, in so many countries.\" Prices doubled in many countries and nearly tripled in Ireland.\n\nThe bursting of the biggest financial bubble in history in 2008 wreaked havoc globally on the housing market. By 2011 home prices in Ireland had plunged by 45% from their peak in 2007. In the United States prices fell by 34% while foreclosures increased exponentially. In Spain and Denmark home prices dropped by 15%. However, in spite of the bust, home prices continue to be overvalued by about 25% or more in Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, New Zealand, Britain, the Netherlands, Spain and Sweden.\n\nCosts are being driven by a number of factors including: \n\nA number of researchers argue that a shortage of affordable housing – at least in the US – is caused in part by income inequality. David Rodda noted that from 1984 and 1991, the number of quality rental units decreased as the demand for higher quality housing increased. Through gentrification of older neighbourhoods, for example, in East New York, rental prices increased rapidly as landlords found new residents willing to pay higher market rate for housing and left lower income families without rental units. The ad valorem property tax policy combined with rising prices made it difficult or impossible for low income residents to keep pace.\n\nIn measuring affordability of housing there are various expenditures beyond the price of the actual housing stock itself, that are considered depending on the index being used.\n\nSome organizations and agencies consider the cost of purchasing a single-family home; others look exclusively at the cost of renting an apartment.\n\nMany U.S. studies, for example, focus primarily on the median cost of renting a two-bedroom apartment in a large apartment complex for a new tenant. These studies often lump together luxury apartments and slums, as well as desirable and undesirable neighborhoods. While this practice is known to distort the true costs, it is difficult to provide accurate information for the wide variety of situations without the report being unwieldy.\n\nNormally, only legal, permitted, separate housing is considered when calculating the cost of housing. The low rent costs for a room in a single family home, or an illegal garage conversion, or a college dormitory are generally excluded from the calculation, no matter how many people in an area live in such situations. Because of this study methodology, median housing costs tend to be slightly inflated.\n\nCosts are generally considered on a cash (not accrual) basis. Thus a person making the last payment on a large home mortgage might live in officially unaffordable housing one month, and very affordable housing the following month, when the mortgage is paid off. This distortion can be significant in areas where real estate costs are high, even if incomes are similarly high, because a high income allows a higher proportion of the income to be dedicated towards buying an expensive home without endangering the household's ability to buy food or other basic necessities.\n\nThe majority of the more than seven billion people on earth now live in cities (UN). There are more than 500 city regions of more than one million inhabitants in the world. Cities become megacities become megalopolitan city regions and even \"galaxies\" of more than 60 million inhabitants. The Yangtze Delta-Greater Shanghai region now surpasses 80 million. Tokyo-Yokohoma adjacent to Osaka-Kobe-Kyoto have a combined population of 100 million. Rapid population growth leads to increased need for affordable housing in most cities.\n\nThe availability of affordable housing in proximity of mass transit and linked to job distribution, has become severely imbalanced in this period of rapid regional urbanization and growing density convergence.\n\n\"In addition to the distress it causes families who cannot find a place to live, lack of affordable housing is considered by many urban planners to have negative effects on a community's overall health.\"\n\nAffordable housing challenges in inner cities range from the homeless who are forced to live on the street, to the relative deprivation of vital workers like police officers, firefighters, teachers and nurses unable to find affordable accommodation near their place of work. These workers are forced to live in suburbia commuting up to two hours each way to work. Lack of affordable housing can make low-cost labour scarcer (as workers travel longer distances) (Pollard and Stanley 2007).\n\nLack of affordable housing places a particular burden on local economies.\n\nAs well, individual consumers are faced with mortgage arrears and excessive debt and therefore cut back on consumption. A combination of high housing costs and high debt levels contributes to a reduction in savings.\n\nThese factors can lead to decreased investment in sectors that are essential to the long-term growth of the economy.\n\nIn some countries, the market has been unable to meet the growing demand to supply housing stock at affordable prices. Although demand for affordable housing, particularly rental housing that is affordable for low and middle income earners, has increased, the supply has not. Potential home buyers are forced to turn to the rental market, which is also under pressure. An inadequate supply of housing stock increases demand on the private and social rented sector, and in worse case scenarios, homelessness.\n\n\n\nIn both large metropolitan areas and regional towns where housing prices are high, a lack of affordable housing places local firms at a competitive disadvantage. They are placed under wage pressures as they attempt to decrease the income/housing price gap. Key workers have fewer housing choices if prices rise to non-affordable levels. Variations in affordability of housing between areas may create labour market impediments.\n\nPotential workers are discouraged from moving to employment in areas of low affordability. They are also discouraged from migrating to areas of high affordability as the low house prices and rents indicate low capital gain potential and poor employment prospects.\n\nHousing affordability is more than just a personal trouble experienced by individual households who cannot easily find a place to live. Lack of affordable housing is considered by many urban planners to have negative effects on a community's overall health.\n\nLack of affordable housing can make low-cost labor more scarce, and increase demands on transportation systems (as workers travel longer distances between jobs and affordable housing). Housing cost increases in U.S. cities have been linked to declines in enrollment at local schools.\n\n\"Faced with few affordable options, many people attempt to find less expensive housing by buying or renting farther out, but long commutes often result in higher transportation costs that erase any savings on shelter.\" Pollard (2010) called this the \"drive 'til you qualify\" approach, which causes far-flung development and forces people to drive longer distances to get to work, to get groceries, to take children to school, or to engage in other activities. A well located dwelling might save significant household travel costs and therefore improve overall family economics, even if the rent is higher than a dwelling in a poorer location. A household's inhabitants must decide whether to pay more for housing to keep commuting time and expense low, or to accept a long or expensive commute to obtain \"better\" housing. The absolute availability of housing is not generally considered in the calculation of affordable housing. In a depressed or sparsely settled rural area, for example, the predicted price of the canonical median two-bedroom apartment may be quite easily affordable even to a minimum-wage worker – if only any apartments had ever been built. Some affordable housing prototypes include Nano House and Affordable Green Tiny House Project.\n\nPolicy makers at all levels – global, national, regional, municipal, community associations – are attempting to respond to the issue of affordable housing, a highly complex crisis of global proportions, with a myriad of policy instruments. These responses range from stop-gap financing tools to long-term intergovernmental infrastructural changes.\n\nIn the simplest of terms, affordability of housing refers to the amount of capital one has available in relation to the price of the goods to be obtained. Public policies are informed by underlying assumptions about the nature of housing itself. Is housing a basic need, a right, an entitlement, or a public good? Or is just another household-level consumer choice, a commodity or an investment within the free market system? \"Housing Policies provide a remarkable litmus test for the values of politicians at every level of office and of the varied communities that influence them. Often this test measures simply the warmth or coldness of heart of the more affluent and secure towards families of a lower socio-economic status (Bacher 1993:16).\"\n\nAffordable housing needs can be addressed through public policy instruments that focus on the demand side of the market, programs that help households reach financial benchmarks that make housing affordable. This can include approaches that simply promote economic growth in general—in the hope that a stronger economy, higher employment rates, and higher wages will increase the ability of households to acquire housing at market prices. Federal government policies define banking and mortgage lending practices, tax and regulatory measures affecting building materials, professional practices (ex. real estate transactions). The purchasing power of individual households can be enhanced through tax and fiscal policies that result in reducing the cost of mortgages and the cost of borrowing. Public policies may include the implementation of subsidy programs and incentive patterns for average households. For the most vulnerable groups, such as seniors, single-parent families, the disabled, etc. some form of publicly funded allowance strategy can be implemented providing individual households with adequate income to afford housing.\n\nCurrently, policies that facilitate production on the supply side include favorable land use policies such as inclusionary zoning, relaxation of environmental regulations, and the enforcement of affordable housing quotas in new developments.\n\nIn some countries, such as Canada, municipal governments began to play a greater role in developing and implementing policies regarding form and density of municipal housing in residential districts, as early as the 1950s. At the municipal level recently promoted policy tools include relaxation of prohibitions against accessory dwelling units, and reduction of the amount of parking that must be built for a new structure.\n\nAffordable housing is a controversial reality of contemporary life, for gains in affordability often result from expanding land available for housing or increasing the density of housing units in a given area. Ensuring a steady supply of affordable housing means ensuring that communities weigh real and perceived livability impacts against the sheer necessity of affordability. The process of weighing the impacts of locating affordable housing is quite contentious, and is laden with race and class implications. Recent research, however, suggests that proximity to low-income housing developments generally has a positive impact on neighborhood property conditions.\n\nThe growing gap between rich and poor since the 1980s manifests itself in a housing system where public policy decisions privilege the ownership sector to the disadvantage of the rental sector.\n\nOwens wonders if the housing market helped reduced poverty concentration in the National longitudinal data between the years of 1977-2008 with concentration of the 100 largest metropolitan areas in the United States. Data information is to compare or intertwine with the differences of national housing subsidies, the entry, exit, and enhancement of low income housing.\n\nAn article by Libertarian writer Virginia Postrel in the November 2007 issue of Atlantic Monthly reported on a study of the cost of obtaining the \"right to build\" (i.e. a building permit, red tape, bureaucracy, etc.) in different U.S. cities. The \"right to build\" cost does not include the cost of the land or the cost of constructing the house. The study was conducted by Harvard economists Edward Glaeser and Kristina Tobio. According to the chart accompanying the article, the cost of obtaining the \"right to build\" adds approximately $600,000 to the cost of each new house that is built in San Francisco. The study, cited, published by Ed Glaeser and Joe Gyourko, reached its conclusion about the value of right to build in different localities based on a methodology of comparing the cost of single family homes on quarter-acre versus half-acre lots to get a marginal land price and then comparing the selling price of homes to construction costs to get a price for land plus other costs, with the difference between the two being attributed to the cost of zoning and other local government permitting and regulations.\n\nMany governments put restrictions on the size or cost of a dwelling that people can live in. Making it essentially illegal to live permanently in a house that is too small, low cost or not meeting to other government defined requirements. Generally these laws are implemented in an attempt to raise the perceived \"standard\" of housing across the country. This can lead to thousands of houses across a country being left empty for much of the year even when there is a great need for more affordable housing such as is the case in countries like Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark where there is a common tradition to have a summer house. This sometimes raises concerns for the respect of rights such as the right to utilize one's property.\n\nIn the United States, most cities have zoning codes that set the minimum size for a housing unit (often 400 square feet) as well as the number of non-related persons who can live together in one unit, resulting in having \"outlawed the bottom end of the private housing market, driving up rents on everything above it.\" \n\nThe challenges of promoting affordable housing varies by location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3173478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3173478", "title": "Black room", "text": "Black room\n\nA black room is part of a communications center (e.g. a post office) used by state officials to conduct clandestine interception and surveillance of communications. Typically all letters or communications would pass through the black room before being passed to the recipient. This practice had been in vogue since the establishment of posts, and was frequently used in France by the ministers of Louis XIII and his followers as cabinet noir (French for \"black room\").\n\nIn modern American network operations centers, optical splitters divert a percentage of the laser light from all incoming and outgoing fiber-optic cables to the secret room. An example is Room 641A in the SBC Communications building in San Francisco.\n\nThe term \"black room\" or \"black chamber\" has also been used to refer to any place or organisation dedicated to code-breaking.\n\n"}
{"id": "1020992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1020992", "title": "Bleiburg repatriations", "text": "Bleiburg repatriations\n\nThe Bleiburg repatriations (see terminology) occurred in May 1945, at the end of World War II in Europe, when tens of thousands of soldiers and civilians associated with the Axis fleeing Yugoslavia were repatriated to that country. They were subjected to forced marches together with captured columns in Yugoslavia. Tens of thousands were executed and many taken to forced labor camps. The events are named for the Carinthian border town of Bleiburg, where the initial repatriation was conducted.\n\nOn 3 May 1945, the government of the Independent State of Croatia (NDH), a fascist puppet state established in parts of occupied Yugoslavia, decided to flee to Austria and have the remnants of the Croatian Armed Forces (HOS) move there as soon as possible in order to surrender to the British Army. The Axis-aligned Slovene leadership issued a retreat order for the Slovene Home Guard on the same day. These forces, accompanied by civilians, joined the German Army Group E and other Axis units in withdrawal, including the XV SS Cossack Cavalry Corps and the Montenegrin National Army, that refused to surrender to the Red Army or the Yugoslav Partisans.\n\nIn the week after the German Instrument of Surrender, which marked the formal end of World War II in Europe, Axis forces in Yugoslavia repeatedly refused to surrender and battled the Partisans to avoid encirclement and keep escape routes open. The Slovene-led columns fought their way to the Austrian border near Klagenfurt on 14 May. Their surrender was accepted by the British and were interned in the nearby Viktring camp. When one of the columns of fleeing HOS troops intermingled with civilians approached the town of Bleiburg on 15 May, the British refused to accept their surrender and directed them to surrender to the Partisans, which the HOS leadership did after short negotiations. Other Axis prisoners in British captivity were repatriated to Yugoslavia in the following weeks. The repatriations were canceled by the British on 31 May, following reports of massacres.\n\nThe Yugoslav authorities moved the prisoners on forced marches throughout the country to internment and labor camps. Mass executions were carried out, the largest of which were in Tezno, Kočevski Rog and Huda jama. The aftermath of the repatriations was a taboo topic in Yugoslavia and the public and official commemoration of the victims would only begin several decades after the events. The number of casualties that occurred at the time of the repatriations and in the weeks that followed has proven difficult to ascertain, with exact numbers being a subject of much debate.\n\nCommonly used terms such as \"Bleiburg massacre\", \"Bleiburg tragedy\", \"Bleiburg crime\", \"Bleiburg case\", and also simply \"Bleiburg\" are used in Croatia in reference to the events in question. \n\nThe term \"Way of the Cross\" () is a common subjective term, used mostly by Croatians, regarding the events after the repatriation itself. The latter have been described as \"death marches\".\n\nWhen World War II broke out in 1939, the government of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia declared its neutrality, but most of its neighbours joined the Tripartite Pact by the beginning of 1941. Yugoslavia came under heavy pressure to join the Axis and the Yugoslav government signed the Pact on 25 March 1941. However, demonstrations broke out in Belgrade against the decision and on 27 March, the government was overthrown in a coup d'état. The new Yugoslav government refused to ratify the signing of the Tripartite Pact, though it did not rule it out. Adolf Hitler reacted by launching the invasion of Yugoslavia on 6 April 1941, together with Italy and Hungary.\n\nOn 10 April, German troops entered Zagreb and on the same day, the establishment of the Independent State of Croatia (, NDH) was declared, an Axis puppet state led by the Ustaše. Ante Pavelić was named the \"Poglavnik\" (\"leader\") of NDH. Yugoslavia capitulated to the Axis powers on 17 April. \n\nThe rump Serbian territory was placed under German military administration, with the help of a civil puppet government led by Milan Nedić. Slovene lands were divided between Germany, Italy and Hungary.\n\nFollowing the occupation and division of Yugoslavia, antisemitic laws were introduced in accordance to the Nazi Final Solution plan. The Ustaše also enacted racial laws and systematically persecuted Serbs, as well as Jewish and Roma populations throughout the country. A concentration camp system was established, the largest of which was Jasenovac. A series of massacres led to armed revolts of Serbs against the NDH. Wehrmacht General Edmund Glaise-Horstenau blamed the Ustaše crimes for the uprisings and criticized the government of NDH.\n\nIn the wake of the invasion, remnants of the Royal Yugoslav Army organized the Serbian monarchist Chetniks as the first resistance movement. The Chetniks were led by Draža Mihailović and were recognized by the Yugoslav government-in-exile. The Communist Party of Yugoslavia refrained from open conflict with the Axis forces while the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact between Germany and the Soviet Union was in effect. Following the start of Operation Barbarossa, the Communist-led Yugoslav Partisans issued their call for an uprising. \n\nJosip Broz Tito was the supreme commander of the Partisan forces. The Chetniks and the Partisans, the two main guerrilla resistance units, initially cooperated against the Axis, but their cooperation soon fell apart and they turned against each other. The Chetniks started to collaborate with the Axis and Allied support shifted to the Partisan side.\n\nThe arrival of Soviet ground troops in the Belgrade Offensive and Allied logistical support enabled the Partisans to increase their offensive actions. By the end of 1944, with the help of the Red Army, they established control in Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro and Dalmatia. German forces retreated from Serbia, together with Nedić's forces. The Wehrmacht and the HOS established a front in Syrmia to secure the retreat of the German Army Group E from the Balkans. Mass killings of POWs and ethnic Germans followed after the Partisans secured control of Serbia.\n\nIn May 1944, Tito founded an intelligence service known as the Department for People's Protection (OZNA), modeled after the Soviet NKVD. It represented a military intelligence service and a political secret police of the Communist Party. In August 1944, he founded an army unit called People's Defence Force of Yugoslavia (\"Korpus narodne odbrane Jugoslavije\", KNOJ), whose explicit assignment was to \"liquidate Chetnik, Ustaša, White Guard and other anti-people gangs\".\n\nIn August 1944, a coup d'état against Ante Pavelić, known as the Lorković–Vokić plot, failed and its conspirators were arrested or executed. The main plotters wanted to align NDH with the Allies. As the war progressed and it became clearer that the Axis would lose the war, the desertion rate in the NDH armed force grew, especially among the Croatian Home Guard. The Chetniks also showed similar signs of desertion. In contrast, the Ustaše Militia rarely disintegrated or defected to the Partisans.\n\nOn 30 August 1944, Josip Broz Tito offered amnesty to Croatian Home Guards, Slovene Home Guards and Chetniks if they chose to defect to the Partisan side by 15 September. After 15 September, all who had not defected were to be brought to \"people's courts\". Similar calls were repeated several times after the deadline. In some cases, Croatian Home Guards were killed despite defecting to the Partisans.\n\nThe Armed Forces of the Independent State of Croatia (HOS) were reorganized in November 1944 to combine the units of the Ustaše and Croatian Home Guard. Throughout the war, the treatment of prisoners from the Croatian Home Guard, was relatively benign Partisans would merely ridicule the captured \"domobran\" soldiers and then send them home if they didn't want to join the uprising. However, on 13 January 1945, Pavelić ordered the \"domobrani\" to merge with the Ustaša military, creating a force estimated at 280,000.\n\nBy 1945, the Yugoslav Partisans were known as the Yugoslav People's Army, numbering more than 800,000 men organized into five field armies, and were in pursuit of the remnant of the defeated German and NDH forces.\n\nIn March 1945, the 4th Yugoslav Army advanced through Lika, Croatian Littoral and Kvarner Gulf. Most of Bosnia and Herzegovina was in Partisan hands by the end of April. On 12 April, the Syrmian Front was broken and the 1st and 3rd Army advanced west through Slavonia. Only the northwestern part of NDH with Zagreb as its center remained under control of NDH authorities. There were a large number of refugees in that area from other parts of NDH. The Partisans carried out reprisals against captured soldiers of the HOS, as well as civilian political opponents.\n\nThe collapse of the Syrmian front in April 1945 accelerated the withdrawal of German forces, that were in retreat from the Balkans since October 1944. Like other Axis troops, forces of the NDH did not want to surrender to the Red Army or the Yugoslav Partisans and began retreating through Slovenia towards the Yugoslav-Austrian border, in order to surrender to the British forces advancing north from Italy. A large-scale exodus of people was planned and organized by the authorities of the NDH despite the fact there was no strategic benefit to it: there simply was no viable destination for all the population to move to. On 3 May, the Slovene leadership also decided to retreat to Austria.\n\nSome in the NDH and Slovene political and military leadership believed that the Western Allies will use them as anti-Communist forces and thus enable them to return to Yugoslavia and restore power with their support. Slovenian Bishop Gregorij Rožman made an appeal to the Allies to occupy Slovenia and prevent the Communists from taking power. The NDH leadership abolished racial laws and on 6 May sent a request for collaboration with the Allies, but all of these efforts failed. While the NDH leadership may have organized a civilian retreat to bolster their claims that the Yugoslav Communists were after innocent civilian victims, the sheer number of civilians slowed down the retreat, made surrender to the Allies unfeasible, and ultimately led to the belief that they were nothing more than a human shield to the Ustaše. However, the majority of the civilian refugees consisted of those holding anti-Communist views or who feared reprisals.\n\nDivisions of three Yugoslav armies were pursuing Axis forces. Some units of the Yugoslav 4th Army managed to reach Carinthia before or at the same time as the retreating columns. Additional divisions of the 3rd and 4th Army were sent to the area in order to capture southern Carinthia and stop the retreating columns. The 1st and the 2nd Army were halted near Celje, while the 3rd Army advanced further in pursuit of the retreating columns.\n\nOn 6 May 1945, the collaborationist government of the NDH fled Zagreb, and arrived to a location near Klagenfurt, Austria on 7 May. Pavelić and the military leadership left Zaprešić on the evening of 7 May, intending to join the rest of his regime in Austria. The bulk of the NDH leadership, including Pavelić, escaped in early May, fleeing to Western Europe and Latin America; Partisans were therefore only able to capture a small number of senior military NDH officers.\n\nZagreb was defended by parts of the 1st Division of the Army of NDH and the 41st and 181st German Divisions, deployed along the unfinished fortified \"Zvonimir line\" between Sveti Ivan Žabno and Ivanić-Grad. The fierce battle with the Yugoslav 1st Army lasted from 5-8 May. The 7 May was the single bloodiest day in the 1,240-day long history of the 1st Proletarian Brigade, with 158 killed and 358 wounded in the fighting for Vrbovec.\n\nBesides the HOS, the Slovene Home Guard and the German Army Group E, there were also other military formations that were retreating. The remnants of the Serbian State Guard, two regiments of the Serbian Volunteer Corps and a group of Chetniks surrendered to the British near the Italian-Yugoslav border on 5 May. These units were not repatriated to Yugoslavia. The Montenegrin National Army, formed in April 1945 by Sekula Drljević with the support of the NDH government, to gather Montenegrins from NDH in the unit, were retreating together with Croatian forces. Thousands of Russian Cossacks of the XVth SS Cossack Cavalry Corps, stationed in Yugoslavia since 1943, were also retreating to Austria. \n\nTolstoy quotes a General Alexander telegram, sent to the Combined Chiefs of Staff, noting \"50,000 Cossacks including 11,000 women, children and old men\". Shortly after midnight on 13 May 1945 the British V Corps Headquarters in Austria estimated that there were \"approximately 30,000 POWs, surrendered personnel, and refugees in the Corps area. A further 60,000 reported moving north to Austria from Yugoslavia\".\n\nOn 7 May 1945, Germany surrendered unconditionally to the Allied powers, marking the practical end of World War II in Europe. The German Instrument of Surrender applied to German Wehrmacht forces in Yugoslavia as well as those armed forces under German command such as the Croatian Armed Forces. This would ordinarily have meant that they too had to cease their activities on 8 May and stay where they found themselves. The Ustaše military, however, came under the command of Pavelić, because as they were about to surrender, General Alexander Löhr, Commander-in-Chief of Army Group E handed command of the Croatian forces to Pavelić on 8 May. Pavelić issued an order from Rogaška Slatina for his troops not to surrender to the Partisans, but to escape to Austria, to implement the Croatian government's decision of 3 May to flee to Austria. Following the capitulation of Germany on 8 May, Tito issued an address via Radio Belgrade on 9 May calling upon all armed collaborators to surrender, threatening \"merciless response\" from the people and the army should they refuse to do so.\n\nOn 8 May, Zagreb was liberated by the Partisan 1st and 2nd Army, with relatively few skirmishes and casualties in the city itself: the 1st Army reported to the General Staff that 10,901 enemy soldiers had been killed and 15,892 captured in taking Zagreb. That same day, the headquarters of the 51st Vojvodina Division of the Yugoslav 3rd Army issued a dispatch ordering its units to consider all enemy officers and soldiers who continue resistance after midnight that day, and who are not part of units who had an organized surrender, as persons who do not have the status of prisoners of war, and to treat them as bandits. The German surrender obstructed the progress of the columns fleeing Croatia northward. By 9 May, Partisan forces had moved into Maribor which eliminated that escape route. They also took control of Celje on 10 May, but with a force insufficient to halt the columns that were escaping towards Dravograd.\n\nThe Slovene Home Guard and Slovene civilians primarily used the route across the Loibl Pass. Around 30,000 soldiers, including 10,000 to 12,000 Slovene Home Guards, 10,000 Germans, 4,000 Serbs, 4,000 members of the Russian Corps, and 6,000 Slovene civilians, were withdrawing to Austria. The road to Loibl (\"Ljubelj\") was congested with loaded cars, trucks, wagons and horse carts. Battles with the Partisans also slowed down the retreat. \n\nAfter passing the Loibl Pass, the columns were headed to the Drava Bridge at Hollenburg. The British were located north of the bridge. The bridge was guarded by German soldiers and was attacked by the Partisans on 7 May. Partisan reinforcements arrived on the following day and they set a barrier between Ferlach and Hollenburg, while units of the 4th Motorized Division and the 26th Division of the 4th Army were approaching Ferlach from the west. The Axis troops and civilians were surrounded and tried to fight their way through the blockades, but some German troops surrendered to the Partisans in the Rosental Valley. \n\nOn 10 May, the main breakthrough attempt took place. The assault was carried out by the Slovene Home Guard, led by Vuk Rupnik, and the 7th SS Division \"Prinz Eugen\" and SS police units. A radio contact was established with the British who were ready to accept them if they managed to cross the Drava. The British did not attack the Axis units fighting the Partisans. The Home Guard and SS troops launched an infantry attack on the town of Ferlach and took control of it on the evening. The remaining Partisan units in the vicinity were repelled on 11 May and the column of troops and refugees began crossing the Drava River. They were taken by the British to the Viktring camp near Klagenfurt. By 14 May, all units of the Slovene Home Guard surrendered to the British.\n\nCroat troops and civilians mostly used escape routes towards Mežica and Bleiburg, and across the Kamnik Alps towards the Juan Valley in Austria. The main Croatian column moved through the towns of Zidani Most, Celje, Štošanj, and Slovenj Gradec. On 11 May, the vanguard of the column reached Dravograd. However, the bridges across the Drava River were barricaded by Bulgarian units that reached the area on 9 May. On 11–12 May, generals Vjekoslav Servatzy and Vladimir Metikoš entered discussions with Bulgarian generals to allow the Croatian column to pass into Austria. The discussions were inconclusive, but the Bulgarians suggested they head in the direction of Prevalje and Bleiburg, which the column did. Bleiburg was located some four kilometres northwest of the border of Austria and Yugoslavia. Parts of the columns that had weak or no protection were attacked by the Partisans - on 12 May, \"Politika\" carried Yugoslav Army reports of 15,700 prisoners of war in Maribor, Zidani Most, Bled, Jesenice and elsewhere. On 13 May, they reported over 40,000 prisoners taken near Rogaška Slatina, Celje, Velenje, Šoštanj, Dravograd, and elsewhere.\n\nThe main column was encircled in the Dravograd pocket. The Croatian Armed Forces had artillery positions in a five kilometers linear distance from Dravograd to the south and used howitzers to fire on positions of the Yugoslav Army. On the night of 13 May, the elite HOS infantry units, commanded by General Rafael Boban, managed to break through the Partisan blockade and the column moved west through Ravne na Koroškem and Poljana towards Bleiburg. A large number of Croat soldiers and civilians reached the field at Bleiburg on 14 May. The 38th (Irish) Infantry Brigade headquarters were set up in Bleiburg, having occupied the town on 12 May, while the rest of the V Corps was stationed in Klagenfurt. By 14 May, the British accepted thousands of retreating troops and civilians.\n\nThe main group of HOS troops and Croat civilians reached the Bleiburg field on 15 May. They were the head of the 45-65 kilometres long columns, numbering around 25,000 to 30,000 people. The group included various branches of the NDH army, including the Air Force, Croatian Home Guard and Ustaše Militia, and civilian refugees. Most of them camped near the local railroad embankment. The Montenegrin National Army was placed east of the embankment. Around 175,000 people were still on Yugoslav territory and moving towards Bleiburg. Negotiations between representatives of the HOS, the Yugoslav Army and the British were held on the same day in the Bleiburg Castle. The British negotiator was Brigadier Thomas Scott of the 38th (Irish) Infantry Brigade. Ustaša infantry general Ivo Herenčić of the V Ustaša Corps, and a translator, Colonel Danijel Crljen, were involved in the surrender negotiations.\n\nIn the afternoon of the same day, the Croatian forces started raising white flags in surrender. The Partisan representatives included Major-General Milan Basta, the political commissar of the 51st Vojvodina Division, and Lieutenant Colonel Ivan Kovačič Efenka of the 14th Attack Division. NDH military representatives attempted to negotiate a surrender to the British, but were directed to surrender to the Yugoslav military. The Independent State of Croatia had joined the Geneva Convention on 20 January 1943, and was recognised by it as a \"belligerent\".\n\nThe Partisan forces of the 51st Vojvodina Brigade of the Yugoslav 3rd Army and the 14th Slovenian Division had established tactical control over the field of Bleiburg. Milan Basta set an ultimatum to the NDH negotiators - unconditional surrender within one hour, or else they would attack them and not uphold the norms of the international conventions of the Red Cross. Basta's ultimatum was extended for another fifteen minutes, after which point a general surrender started.\n\nThe exact events after the expiry of the ultimatum are the source of the original controversy regarding the repatriations. Teodor Pavić, described as a NDH \"courier\", wrote that the Partisan forces began strafing the crowd in the Bleiburg field with machine guns and shooting them individually. Petar Brajović, a Yugoslav officer, described a fifteen- to twenty-minute machine gun and mortar fire on the column. Strle wrote that the 3rd Battalion of the 11th \"Zidanšek\" Brigade and the 3rd Battalion of the 1st \"Tomšič\" Brigade were involved in the fire, and their records noted at least 16 deaths, mainly from the machine gun fire. A Croatian soldier who survived, Zvonimir Zorić, wrote of a massacre at Bleiburg.\n\nThe notion of a massacre at the Bleiburg field was promoted by the remnants of the Ustaša in exile. Croatian-American historian Jozo Tomasevich notes that it would have been physically impossible to assemble all the Croatian refugees in Bleiburg itself, so German and Croatian troops who are said to have surrendered \"in Bleiburg\" must have done so in various localities, including Bleiburg, and certainly not all in Bleiburg itself. He considers it impossible to establish the exact number of troops and civilians who tried to flee to Austria and were forced to surrender to the Partisans, and stresses that the number of victims has been inflated by pro-Ustaša sources for propaganda purposes, while communist sources have been diminishing it for similar reasons. Croatian historian Martina Grahek Ravančić wrote that the complete extent of the casualties sustained by the NDH column at Bleiburg on the day of the surrender was not described in any available sources. She described a short Yugoslav Army attack on the column as a certainty, likewise that there were casualties, but the number is unknown.\n\nStrle and Milan Basta claimed that as Ustaša forces tried to make a breakthrough at the north side of the valley, three British tanks were engaged to stop them, reportedly resulting in numerous casualties as well. However, only three Croatians provided testimony which supported the notion that there were British tanks in the proximity of the column, but with no mention of such a grave incident. These kinds of unconfirmed reports of British military involvement, coupled with the actually legitimate acts of repatriation, were subsequently exaggerated by Ustaša supporters, particularly in the Croatian diaspora, in biased published works to accuse the British of war crimes.\n\nLater the same day, NDH generals Slavko Štancer, Vjekoslav Servatzy and Vladimir Metikoš oversaw the surrender to the Partisans. British army reports say Štancer had previously been captured by the Partisans when they strayed from the column, seeking the British. The surrender continued for several days and at various locations; it took until 21 May for Tito to order the Partisans to withdraw from Carinthia.\n\nSeveral other incidents and repatriations happened at and after this time elsewhere in Carinthia. Yugoslav intelligence officer Simo Dubajić negotiated with the British forces about the organization of surrender and repatriation elsewhere along the Yugoslav-Austrian border. The extradition of Croat internees of the Viktring and Krumpendorf prisoner-of-war camps, located north of the Drava River, began on 18 May. The prisoners were assured that they were being transported to Italy. The repatriation took place in the village of Rosenbach and the town of Eberndorf. The transports continued on 19 May when Rosenbach and Lavamünd, northeast of Bleiburg, were used as extradition places, while some were transported to Bleiburg. Internees of the Grafenstein camp were also transported. Thousands more were handed over in the following days, mostly in Rosenbach and the Bleiburg railway station. The last transport was on 23 May when 800 Croat prisoners from Grafenstein were taken by rail to Bleiburg. British war diary records note that the extraditions of Croats ended on 24 May.\n\nThe transports of Serbs and Montenegrins followed on 24 May, with three regiments of the Serbian Volunteer Corps. The first repatriation of larger groups of Slovene prisoners took place on 27 May, together with the remaining Serbs and Montenegrins. The repatriation of Slovenes also took place in Rosenbach or Bleiburg, except for the severely wounded that were accommodated in a hospital in Klagenfurt. The Slovenes were also told by the British that they will be transported to camps in Italy. The last Slovene group was handed over on 31 May. The following day, 2,700 Slovene civilians were scheduled to be transported to the border, but the transport was stopped by the British due to reports of massacres in Yugoslavia. All repatriations were canceled and a decision was made that only those who wanted to return to Yugoslavia would be transported. According to an estimate of the British 5th Corps, a total of 26,339 people were extradited from the camps by 30 May, including 12,196 Croats, 8,263 Slovenes, 5,480 Serbs, and 400 Montenegrins.\n\nOn the evening of 20 May, a group of NDH troops appeared near Ferlach, located approximately west of Bleiburg, and attempted to set terms for their passage west. \"As the Ustaše did not want to surrender\" reads the operational diary of the 2nd Battalion of the Partisan 11th Dalmatian Assault Brigade, \"we attacked them at 21:00hrs. On this occasion we took 24 Ustaše soldiers and one officer\". British forces repatriated around 40,000 Cossacks to the Soviet Union's SMERSH, near Graz. The repatriation of Cossacks to the Soviet Union from camps near Lienz began on 28 May.\n\nRepresentatives of the HOS of NDH accepted the surrender on 15 May at 16:00 hours. After the immediate repatriation of the soldiers at Bleiburg was complete, the Yugoslav forces began disarming them and started preparations for transporting the prisoners back. A large number of columns of prisoners were formed in rows of four that were sent on a forced march through Slovenia. Due to the presence of the British Army, the initial treatment of prisoners was correct. However, it got worse as the columns moved away from the border. The prisoners were given no food or water and were looted of valuables. Those who lagged behind were shot. Individual killings and executions of smaller groups of men soon began. The columns were in Dravograd directed to Maribor or Slovenj Gradec and Celje. On 17 May, the British started the repatriation of Croat internees of the Viktring camp, mostly members of the HOS.\n\nThe columns marching towards Maribor, where transit camps were set, were moving along the Drava River. During the march, bodies could be seen floating in the Drava and on the banks of the river. The first prisoners arrived in Maribor on 17 May and were placed in transit camps. Other larger columns arrived in the following two days. At the camps, prisoners were sorted based on their unit and year of enlistment. A part of the prisoners were sent on further marches or transported with trains to Celje and Zagreb. The rest were brought by trucks to anti-tank trenches in Tezno near Maribor, with their hands tied with wire, where they were lined up and killed. The killings lasted for several days until the trenches were filled with dead bodies. It is estimated that around 15,000 people were killed in the Tezno massacre, mostly members of the HOS.\n\nPrisoners directed from Bleiburg to the town of Slovenj Gradec were joined by a large number of refugees that were stuck on the Dravograd-Slovenj Gradec road. Several transit camps were set in the town where prisoners were placed and sorted. Around 1,500 were killed in the nearby village of Žančani. The prisoners were only briefly held in Slovenj Gradec, mostly a day, before they continued their way to Celje. Anyone who stepped out of the column to take a rest or drink water was shot. Those that were too exhausted to continue the march were also shot. In Celje, most of the prisoners were placed in a football yard on the outskirts of the city. The command of the 11th Krajina Division of the 1st Army reported on 17 May that they received 30,000 prisoners. Anti-tank trenches near the Sava River and in the area of Bukovžlak were used for executions. Prisoners were killed in various ways; on one occasion around 100-200 were locked in an enclosed water reservoir. Water was then slowly released until all of them drowned.\n\nA column of 40,000 people, consisting primarily of Croat soldiers, moved from Celje to Zidani Most on 18 May. A part of the captives were separated there, and led to the nearby forests and killed. The column reached Samobor on 20 May. They were not given food during the trip, but locals left them food and water by the road. Prisoners were placed in several smaller camps and prisons in the town, where selections were made again. Most of the prisoners were from Samobor sent to Zagreb and led through the city by foot. Trains with prisoners from other locations, mostly from Maribor, were also coming to Zagreb. The city's transit camps were not suitable for the accommodation of a large number of people, so many prisoners were placed in yards. The camps were surrounded with wire fences, behind which citizens gathered, bringing food or seeking relatives and friends. One of the largest camps in the area was in Prečko. Prisoners were given food there, albeit not regularly. Around 50 died of hunger and illness. Aleksandar Ranković, the chief of the intelligence service, was dissatisfied with the pace of executions in Zagreb and sent a letter to the Croatian branch of the OZNA, demanding greater resoluteness. An increased number of arrests of Zagreb's citizens followed during June and July 1945.\n\nThe repatriation of Slovene and Serb internees from Viktring began on 24 May. The transports of around 11,000 Slovene Home Guards and 600 Slovene civilians were done in two directions: from Rosenbach in Austria to Jesenice, who were then imprisoned in internment camps in Kranj, Škofja Loka or Šentvid, and from Bleiburg to Celje, where the Teharje camp was located. The prisoners were beaten and many were killed on the way. The transport and liquidations were carried out by the Corps of People’s Defence of Yugoslavia (KNOJ) and the Department for People's Protection (OZNA). Internees of the Šentvid camp were taken to the Kočevje region, where thousands were killed and disposed of in caves, pits and ravines in the Kočevski Rog massacre. Internees of the Teharje camp were killed in its vicinity and in the surrounding caves and mines, including the Barbara Pit coal mine. Out of 5,000 Slovene Home Guards brought to Teharje, almost all were dead by August 1945. 800 Slovene Home Guards and civilians were executed at Podutik near Ljubljana. The decomposing bodies at the location contaminated Ljubljana's water supply, so a group of German POWs were ordered to relocate the bodies to a new mass grave.\n\nThe OZNA reported that the main movement of columns of prisoners from Slovenia and the Austrian border was carried out by 8 June. Most of the columns reached their destination where permanent camps were located, 12 of which were in Croatia and 11 in Vojvodina. According to the report, there were a total of 175,922 prisoners. On 25 June, Deputy Prime Minister of Yugoslavia Edvard Kardelj sent a dispatch to Slovenian Prime Minister Boris Kidrič, requesting him to speed up the liquidations as a general amnesty will soon be passed. The decree \"on general amnesty and pardon\" for Chetniks, the Serbian State Guard, Croatian and Slovene Home Guard, and Albanian and Muslim militia, was adopted on 3 August. According to a report from February 1946, 41,320 prisoners were granted amnesty based on this decision. All those who had been discharged from camps had to contact their local authorities. Some faced trials and sentences to prison or forced labor. Others were under surveillance of the KNOJ and the secret police. On 2 March 1946, the Supreme Command of the Yugoslav Army ordered the release of \"all Yugoslav nationalities - members of enemy military formations, except those against whom criminal proceedings have been initiated.\" Internment and labor camps continued to operate in the following years. The purges that started at the end of the war continued until the early 1950s.\n\nThe events in the aftermath of the war were censored in Yugoslavia. Mass graves were concealed or destroyed, in accordance with an order by the Federal Ministry of Domestic Affairs from 18 May 1945. Relatives of the victims faced persecution and were treated as second class groups. Until the 1950s, there were strict border controls in Yugoslavia, but tens of thousands of people emigrated illegally.\n\nIt was not possible to visit the graves located in Yugoslavia, so Bleiburg in Austria became the main location where political emigrants, survivors or families of the victims could gather and hold a commemoration. The first Croats to return to the fields of Bleiburg to commemorate the victims came in 1952 on All Saints' Day. Since then, the Bleiburg Honorary Guard (\"Počasni bleiburški vod\"), an association founded by Croatian emigrants, organized an annual commemorative event, together with the Catholic Church in Carinthia. The Yugoslav consulate in Klagenfurt sent diplomatic protests to the Austrian government, but the commemorations were never banned by Austria. The commemoration was seen as a provocation by Yugoslavia. Prohibited Croatian symbols were openly displayed and it drew attention to postwar killings which the Yugoslav authorities denied. The Bleiburg events were also used as a tool for historical revisionism and the focus of collective resentment by the remainder of the Ustaše and their supporters. The number of victims was artificially inflated.\n\nThe Yugoslav State Security Administration (UDBA) monitored the activities of the participants of the commemorative event and conducted a series of attacks on its organizers. During the ceremony in 1966, a bomb exploded in a country inn in Loibach, but none of the attendants was injured. Nikica Martinović, the chairman of the Bleiburg Honorary Guard, was assassinated by the UDBA in Klagenfurt in 1975. The following year a bomb was found in front of the tavern of Mirko Karačić, also a member of the Bleiburg Honorary Guard. In spite of the threats and attacks, the commemoration continued to be held annually until the breakup of Yugoslavia.\n\nGatherings and commemorations were also held in other countries. In 1960, on the 15th anniversary commemoration held in Cleveland, the Bleiburg Tragedy Research Committee was founded by Croatian emigrants. In 1961, the commemoration in Cleveland was attended by US Congressman Michael A. Feighan. The Yugoslav consul in Pittsburgh, Ivan Mirošević, protested against it and requested the gathering to be banned. Feighan criticized the consul and Josip Broz Tito during his speech at the commemoration. Mirošević was expelled from the US for his comments. In 1965, commemorating the 20th anniversary, US Senator Frank Lausche condemned the post-war killings in Yugoslavia. Organizations of Croatian emigrants in Germany and USA requested a Red Cross investigation of mass grave sites, but Yugoslavia rejected it.\n\nIn 1976, a marble monument was erected in the Unter-Loibach cemetery and in 1987, a monument was erected on the Bleiburg field with the inscription \"In Honor and Glory of the Fallen Croatian Army, May 1945\" in Croatian and German language. The monument had the Croatian coat of arms and the Islamic star and crescent engraved.\n\nDiscussions about the post-war massacres were forbidden in Yugoslavia, so the investigations of mass grave locations began only in the 1990s, after the fall of communism. In 1992, 1163 bodies were excavated from 23 mass graves in the forests of Macelj, leaving around 130 possible mass grave locations unexplored. In 2002, the Slovenian government established the Governmental Committee for Settlement of Questions on Secret Mass Graves, with the assignment of \"recording of data about the number and locations of mass graves\" after the end of World War II.\n\nThe Tezno mass graves near Maribor were discovered in 1999 during the construction of a motorway. There were 1,179 corpses in the excavated strip. In 2007, the Commission on Concealed Mass Graves in Slovenia, founded in 2005, analyzed the Tezno trench and found human remains at a length of 740 metres, estimated to contain the remains of around 15,000 victims. In 2009, the Barbara Pit was uncovered in Slovenia, holding 726 human remains. The same year, more pits were uncovered on two locations near the Croatian-Slovenian border, one near the village of Harmica and the other near Gornji Hrašćan, estimated to hold, together, around 4,500 bodies.\n\nBy mid 2008, 581 concealed grave sites were registered by the Slovenian Commission on Concealed Mass Graves. The number rose to more than 600 grave sites in 2010. The commission estimates that there are around 100,000 victims in those graves in Slovenia alone. Unlike in Slovenia, there was no serious research of mass graves in Croatia by the Croatian government. In 1991, the Croatian Parliament established the Commission for Determination of War and Post-war Victims. The Commission began its work in 1994, but was abolished in 2002, with no significant contribution to the research.\n\nThe modern-day consensus is that the number of deaths of the forced marches and in death camps rose to tens of thousands, and included civilians. The number of casualties, provided by the literature dealing with the Bleiburg repatriations and its aftermath, mostly ranges from about 50,000 to 200,000-250,000. Based on statistical calculations, a minimum of 70,000 to 80,000 people were killed. However, the exact number of those who met their death after the end of the war is impossible to ascertain accurately. Generally, there are three approaches to the number of victims:\n\nThe historiographic investigations of scientists include:\n\nEstimates have also been based on archeological evidence from mass graves found in Slovenia. There were 581 grave sites being investigated by the Slovenian Commission on Concealed Mass Graves, .\n\nVarious authors base their claims on demographic calculations, accumulated eyewitness accounts, etc.:\n\nWith the transition to democracy in the 1980s and 1990s, the interest in revealing information about the Bleiburg repatriations grew, and it continued to be abused for revisionist purposes in the Croatian mainstream.\nIn May 1994, an International Symposium for Investigation of the Bleiburg Tragedy was held in both Zagreb and Bleiburg, where several authors discussed the deaths at Bleiburg and estimated them to be in the tens of thousands. This was later published by Školska knjiga as \"Od Bleiburga do naših dana\".\n\nThe Republic of Croatia, by an act of the Croatian Parliament in 1995, started to officially commemorate the victims at Bleiburg, at a time when Franjo Tuđman and the Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) were in power.\n\nMore recently, as commemorative events became less of a political event, the radicals were largely marginalized and the focus of the commemoration turned to the actual victims of the repatriations. Many top-ranking politicians and Catholic and Muslim clerics visit the Bleiburg site annually. Prime Minister Ivica Račan visited the site in 2002. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader visited the site in 2004. \n\nFor the 60th anniversary commemorations in 2005 a large crowd was in attendance, with speeches by Croatian parliamentary speaker Vladimir Šeks and head of the Muslim Community of Croatia, Mufti Ševko Omerbašić. In 2007, a new altar was installed at the site and was inaugurated by Cardinal Josip Bozanić before some 10,000 people.\n\nIn 2007, Slovenia's government announced plans to make the Tezno trench a memorial park and cemetery. In 2008, the Croatian and Slovenian governments reached an agreement of cooperation on organizing military cemeteries, similar to earlier agreements which Slovenia reached with Italy and Germany.\n\nCroatia's Prime Minister, Zoran Milanović, visited Bleiburg in September 2008. He stated that all victims had the right to a fair trial, and that his motive was not political.\n\nIn 2009, Croatian President Stjepan Mesić criticized the Parliament's representatives who did not react to people in the crowd displaying Ustaše iconography, which is ostensibly illegal in Croatia, at a state-sponsored event. \n\nIn 2010, Croatian president Ivo Josipović said he would not attend the year's May Bleiburg commemoration as long as Ustaše iconography was present, although he did make a separate visit to the Bleiburg memorial in June in addition to his visit to the Tezno memorial.\n\nIn 2012, Croatia's parliament decided to revoke funding for the annual Bleiburg commemoration. The reason given by Milanović was that the government would not fund what had become a politically partisan event concentrating on the NDH, rather than mourning the victims. In 2012, the Croatian leadership laid wreaths only at the monument in Tezno.\n\nAs Croatian academician Vjeran Pavlaković, an assistant professor in the Department of Cultural Studies at the University of Rijeka, writes in \"Deifying the Defeated Commemorating Bleiburg since 1990\",\"The blurring of the past and the present is an integral part of the Bleiburg commemorations; not only do the participants dress in Ustasa uniforms, display Ustasa insignia and iconography, and sell paraphernalia associated with the NDH and its leaders, but there is an active discourse about the Croatian War of Independence accompanied by images of heroes (as well as individuals guilty of war crimes) from the conflict in the 1990s.\" \nPavlaković concludes that \"\"[T]he effectiveness of Bleiburg to act as a site of memory can be attributed to the fact that it represents both a traumatic past, as well as a moment of rupture, or historical discontinuity. Both of these factors give the commemorations at Bleiburg emotional weight and political significance, especially at a point when Croatia was going through another historical transition in the 1990s. It also meant that the Bleiburg myth was easily manipulated; the victims of the Bleiburg tragedy were actively invoked not only to distort the Ustasa past, but to justify the resurgence of extreme nationalist political options. The Bleiburg myth became one of many historical moments that symbolized Croatian martyrdom, due to the prevailing narrative of victimization by Greater Serbian aggression during the 1990s. The martyrium myth is one of the most common archetypes in the taxonomy of myths... The danger of presenting the victims of Bleiburg exclusively as martyrs for the Croatian state, however, is that the reality of the NDH regime and the crimes it committed are ignored in the new, revised narrative of World War Two.\n\nUnlike many other operations of the Partisans, which have been described in detail, little has been written on operations in Slovenia near the Austrian border during the week of 7–15 May 1945. Postwar Yugoslav literature ascribed all human losses in May and June 1945 as military casualties in the final operations of the war. All opposing armies and political opponents were characterized by the Yugoslav historiography as traitors and collaborators. The events at Bleiburg were known as \"final encirclement battles\", \"final military operations\", and the \"grand finale in Carinthia\". Bleiburg repatriations and its aftermath were first discussed in emigrant literature by anti-communists that managed to leave the country. One of the first book dealing with the subject was \"La Tragedia de Bleiburg\", published by Croatian emigrants in Buenos Aires in 1963.\n\n\"The Minister and the Massacres\", a 1986 book by Nikolai Tolstoy, further publicized the issue, but it made various dubious claims about the repatriations that were roundly criticized by various historians and authors, although it brought attention, more generally, to the persistent distortion of the story, and to the issue of historians trusting contemporary records and purported eyewitness.\n\nCroatian-American historian Jozo Tomasevich described the events: \"The annihilation of most quisling troops captured at the end of the war – which is a fact – was an act of mass terror and brutal political surgery, similar to that practiced by the Ustašas and the Chetniks earlier in the war.\" Regarding Partisan treatment of Ustaše prisoners, Tomasevich notes: \"Considering the nature of the struggle among the various competing forces during the Second World War in Yugoslavia, atrocities against the Serbian population in the territory of the Independent State of Croatia and pro-Partisan or dissident Croats, the fact that the Ustaše adhered to the Nazis to the bitter end, and finally the fact that the Ustaša leadership wanted to put its troops at the disposal of the Western Allies for possible use against Yugoslav and other Communists, no mercy on the part of the Yugoslav Partisans toward these troops could have been expected.\"\n\nBritish political scientist David Bruce MacDonald criticized the exaggeration of the number of victims: \"Inflating the numbers of dead at Bleiburg had several layers of significance. Firstly, it gave the Croats their own massacre at the hands of Serbs and/or Communists, which allowed them to counter the Serbs' Jasenovac genocide with one of their own. Secondly, it allowed Croats to distance themselves from the Serbs and the Communist regime that had carried out the massacres. They could portray Croatia as an unwilling participant in the SFRY, more a prisoner than a constituent nation. Thirdly, by suffering such a massacre, the Croats underwent their own 'way of Cross', as dubbed by most Croatians.\"\n\nRegarding Tito's responsibility for the actions of the Partisans at the end of the war, Croatian lawyer Dominik Vuletić wrote: \"...it should be mentioned that at the time of the Bleiburg events and the death marches that followed, he was the Prime Minister (DFJ), Minister of Defence, General Secretary of the Communist Party and the Supreme Commander of all Yugoslav Armed Forces, so de facto and de iure he had control over all the forces and was the most responsible individual in the country. The Yugoslav forces that participated in the Bleiburg events acted according to Tito's instructions and were under his control. [...] So, there can be no doubt that Josip Broz Tito had full effective control over the units involved in the crimes.\" On 13 May, Tito allegedly dispatched a handwritten telegram to the supreme headquarters of the Slovene Partisan Army that arrived on 14 May, prohibiting \"in the sternest language\" the execution of prisoners of war and commanding the transfer of possible suspects to a military court. The authenticity of this telegram is disputed as it was not published in any collection of documents of the Yugoslav Army and did not have Tito's signature. Historian Nikolai Tolstoy called it \"a clear forgery\".\n\nBritish historian Keith Lowe dealt with the end of the war in his book \"Savage Continent: Europe in the Aftermath of World War II\", where he wrote: \"For countless millions of people throughout the eastern half of the continent, therefore, the end of the war did not signal ‘liberation’ at all, it merely heralded a new era of state repression. The Nazi terror was over: the Communist terror was about to begin\".\n\nThe surrender at Bleiburg was the subject of a 1999 film, \"Četverored\", based on the 1997 novel of the same name by Ivan Aralica. Croatian-Australian painter Charles Billich painted a series of works on the event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55563673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55563673", "title": "CSeries dumping petition by Boeing", "text": "CSeries dumping petition by Boeing\n\nOn 28 April 2016, Bombardier Aerospace and Delta Air Lines announced a sale for 75 CSeries CS100 firm orders and 50 options, the first aircraft should enter service in spring 2018. Delta Air Lines, it was thought, would likely start using more fuel-efficient CS100s in 2018 on flights out of Los Angeles, New York and Dallas. Airways News believe that a substantial 65 to 70% discount off the $71.8 million list price was provided making the final sale at $24.6–28.7 million price per aircraft; this large order from a major carrier could help Bombardier to break the Boeing/Airbus duopoly on narrowbody aircraft.\n\nOn 27 April 2017, Boeing filed a petition charging Bombardier with dumping for selling 75+50 CS100s to Delta Air Lines for $19.6m each, below their $33.2m production cost. Aviation Week noted \"The reaction to Boeing's petition against Bombardier across much of the aerospace industry has been sharply negative\". Flight Global qualified the move as \"perhaps the most back-handed compliment one manufacturer can pay another\". Delta Air Lines dismissed Boeing's allegations, claiming Boeing only offered a combination of used Embraer E-190 and Boeing 717s which were unavailable for the Delta timeline as Boeing does not currently produce a model in the 100-125 seat range, not the Boeing 737-700 or 737 MAX 7.\nBoeing itself received multibillion-dollar tax breaks from Washington state.\nThe Canadian Press compared the situation to David and Goliath.\n\nAt the 18 May United States International Trade Commission hearing, Boeing's vice-chairman Ray Conner stated \"It will only take one or two lost sales involving US customers before commercial viability of the Max 7, and therefore the US industry's very future, becomes very doubtful\" and \"Bombardier has said it wants 50% of this market, which it will probably win at the prices it is offering. If Bombardier does that, we're looking at losing $330 million dollars in revenue every year\". Bombardier Commercial Aircraft president Fred Cromer said \"the Boeing numbers are not accurate, whether we're talking about the sales price or the production cost,[...] early airplanes are expensive [to produce] and every manufacturer looks at the entire program\" and the pricing to Delta was in the context of relaunching the program at the 2015 Paris Air Show and had to account for the \"perceived risk\" of ordering a new aircraft.\n\nBoeing offered United Airlines very low prices for the 737-700 to undercut Bombardier, affecting the pricing of the MAX 7 and cascading on the rest of the 737 MAX family. That was a threat to the company's future and ultimately the US aerospace industry, according to Boeing. While the CS100 seats 110 in two-class, Bombardier responded to the 100-seat requirement by pricing it as a light two-class 100-seater and charging for 10 more seats as needed. Bombardier was surprised when United ordered the larger 737-700 as the competition was believed to be the Embraer E190, possibly tied to other B787 or 777-300ER deals.\n\nOn 9 June, the US Trade Commission voted that there is a reasonable indication that the US industry is threatened and will publish its report after 10 July 2017. The US Department of Commerce will continue to conduct its investigations, with its preliminary countervailing duty determination due on 21 July 2017, and its antidumping duty determination due on 4 October 2017. Its detailed decision is heavily redacted, not allowing an observer to understand the ITC reasoning.\n\nAs the US Department of Commerce should announce eventual measures against Bombardier on 25 September 2017, Spirit Airlines and Sun Country Airlines presented their support of the CSeries, benefiting US travelers while Boeing does not offer any 100-140 seat aircraft.\n\nOn 26 September, the Department of Commerce announced it found that Bombardier received subsidies of 220%, and will collect deposits based on these preliminary rates.\nBombardier said it will be disputing the \"absurd\" ruling which is \"divorced from the reality about the financing of multibillion-dollar aircraft programmes\".\n\nOn 6 October 2017 the US Department of Commence announced it would add a 80% preliminary anti-dumping duty on top, resulting in a total duty of 300%. On 1 February 2018, the US International Trade Commission will issue its final subsidy and dumping determinations which will support tariffs ultimately imposed by the US government's Commerce department on 8 February. Delta Air Lines is confident Bombardier will be eventually exonerated.\n\nUniversity of Waterloo's Danny Lam suggest Boeing's trade complaint real reason is the potential expansion of China's aviation industry through Bombardier. Delta Air Lines CEO Ed Bastian said \"we do not expect to pay any tariffs and we do expect to take the planes\", maybe with a delay, but he had \"various other plans and alternatives\".\n\nBoeing's actions may affect the planned sale of Boeing F/A-18E/F Super Hornet jet fighters to the Royal Canadian Air Force, warned Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in a statement in mid September. \"We won't do business with a company that's busy ... trying to put our aerospace workers out of business\".\nCanadian Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan confirmed on 28 September 2017 that Boeing's products are unlikely to be selected because it is not a \"trusted partner\". \"Our government is not going to allow our aerospace sector to be attacked in this manner ... We can't do business with a company that treats us in this way.\"\nCanada will review Boeing's bid when it is presented.\n\nOn 12 October, Boeing replied that its illegal-subsidies complaint against Bombardier is about selling aircraft below the cost of production and not an attempt to hurt a competitor, the company merely wants \"fairness\" in \"following trade rules\" as Boeing claims to be already doing.\nIn meetings with Donald Trump, Trudeau warned: \"The attempt by Boeing to put tens of thousands of aerospace workers out of work across Canada is not something we look on positively and I certainly mentioned that this was a block to us ... making any military procurements from Boeing\".\n\nCanada will run a competition for 88 new fighters to replace its current 77 CF-18s at a cost of C$15 to C$19 billion. The competitors are expected to include Airbus Defence and Space, Boeing, Dassault Aviation and Lockheed Martin. The government scrapped its plans to buy 18 new Super Hornets as an interim measure on 12 December 2017 and will instead buy 18 second-hand Australian F/A-18s for an estimated C$500 million (US$388 million). The Canadian government made clear that Boeing will not be considered a trusted partner unless it drops its CSeries trade challenge.\n\nBombardier is a major employer in Belfast, Northern Ireland. The UK's Prime Minister Theresa May announced that her government would work with the company to protect the 4,000 \"vital\" jobs.\nBritish Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said \"We have contracts in place with Boeing for new maritime patrol aircraft and for Apache attack helicopters and they will also be bidding for other defence work and this kind of behaviour clearly could jeopardise our future relationship.\"\nBoeing UK is also a major employer in the UK.\n\nMay hinted that the UK might cease ordering aircraft from Boeing unless the punitive tariff against Bombardier is dropped.\nThe UK government's orders for helicopters and patrol aircraft are already firm and Boeing will refuse to back down to prevent \"subsidized competition\" and \"illegal dumping\" by Bombardier which would hurt Boeing for many years.\nThe Republic of Ireland's Taoiseach Leo Varadkar warned that the Commerce Department's tariff may result in a UK-US trade war.\nOn October 11, Barry Gardiner of the UK Labour Party accused Boeing of hypocrisy, insisting that all aircraft manufacturers require government subsidies; he labeled Boeing \"the king of corporate welfare\" and a \"subsidy junkie\" and suggested it was trying to \"crush a competitor\".\nBombardier manufacturing in Northern Ireland employs indirectly 11,000 people.\n\nBoeing was prepared for the possibility of losing military sales from the Canadian and UK reactions, but was surprised that Airbus took a majority stake in the program, which could cause EU retaliation, leading to the US possibly backing down.\nIn its original April complaint, Boeing notes that \"Airbus has opened a final assembly facility in Mobile, AL [...] to produce Aircraft in the United States [and is] treated as a domestic Aircraft producer\".\n\nOn 16 October 2017, Airbus and Bombardier announced a partnership on the CSeries program, with Airbus acquiring a 50.01% majority stake, Bombardier keeping 31% and Investissement Québec 19%, headquarters and assembly remain in Québec while US customers would benefit from a second Final Assembly Line in Mobile, Alabama.\nBombardier CEO Alain Bellemare said \"When you produce an aircraft in the US, it is not subject to an import duty under US rules [...] We are not circumventing anything\".\nBoeing thinks this would not exempt the aircraft from potential tariffs.\n\nIn some 13 November filings, Delta insists its order is not an actual sale and no aircraft would be imported due to the aircraft being built in the US, while Bombardier argues that its deal with Airbus should be left outside the investigation, as is Boeing, which also claims the Mobile site's only goal is to circumvent duties, and if tariffs are dropped it will never materialize.\nIn a 20 November filing, Delta said \"In Boeing's view, any action would be a potential form of 'evasion'\", like modifying a purchase agreement, evaluating 109-seat aircraft not produced in US or expanding the US aerospace industry and competition for customers.\n\nDepending on the outcome of the US ITC ruling in early 2018, the CSeries aircraft earmarked for Delta in 2018 could be delivered to other customers. Bombardier will carry out the preparatory work to start the second final assembly line once the partnership is approved. This construction would take two years and result in early 2020 deliveries. The US content already exceeds 50% without the final assembly and is close to 60% with it included.\n\nThe US will benefit from the partnership: the Mobile plant would need $300 million and thousands of jobs for its construction, then would need 2,000 permanent jobs and over 22,500 jobs at US suppliers produce 52% of the CSeries content, which add to Boeing production which is oversold while its real competition is the Embraer E-Jet E2. \nTravellers and airlines will benefit from its roomier cabin, lower noise and emissions, better fuel economy and longer range to make domestic tertiary markets viable: Boeing risks alienating many of its customers for little perceived gain.\n\nThe Boeing-supported Lexington Institute stated that the Canadian government support to Bombardier when it was facing bankruptcy in 2015 was intended to save Canadian jobs by sacrificing American jobs and undermining Boeing 737 sales, the most important Boeing product. After it had to cut its price by 70% to beat the CSeries for United Airlines in 2016, Boeing decided to act when the CSeries was offered to Delta at $10 million below its production cost, with the intent of protecting its workers, retirees and shareholders.\nIf Airbus, Bombardier and maybe others can rely on government subsidies, its managers think Boeing could lose its ability to innovate and price its products competitively, thus jeopardizing its long-term survival.\n\nUnexpectedly, Boeing action could increase manufacturers concentration and reinforce itself and Airbus market power.\n\nOn 13 December 2017, Michael Arthur, president of Boeing Europe and managing director of Boeing UK and Ireland, formally testified in the UK House of Commons, stating the process is simply legal and not political: Bombardier sold aircraft below the cost of production, a textbook case of dumping, to seek a flagship sale to boost sales. Boeing has stated that the tariffs should stay in place, even if the CSeries is built in Mobile, Alabama, with a majority US content, and stressed that with a small typical seating difference, the CS300 competes with the 737-700 and 737 MAX 7 in the 100-150-seat category, a $4 billion market including $1 billion in the US.\n\nOn 14 December 2017, Delta Air Lines ordered 100 Airbus A321neos and 100 further options over choosing a Boeing design. The next day, Boeing stated that it has not tried to stop the proceedings before the US Commerce Department issues its findings and the ITC hosts a final hearing on 18 December 2017, ahead of its vote on 26 January 2018.\n\nAt the 18 December 2017 US ITC hearing, Delta confirmed it has asked Bombardier to guarantee that all the aircraft it ordered will be assembled in Mobile. While the 135-seat 737-7 has not won a major new order since 2013, Boeing confirmed its interest in that market segment and said that it could accommodate an order for near-term deliveries by increasing overall rates and shuffling production slots.\n\nCanada's ambassador to the US, David MacNaughton, warned that a positive finding by the ITC \"based on just the type of 'speculation and conjecture' that is prohibited under both US and international law\" could violate World Trade Organization agreements.\n\nFor industry observer Addison Schonland, the ITC commissioners seemed insufficiently qualified and missed opportunities to better understand fleet planning by asking why the MAX7 is not a commercial success, even revamped, or why would United initially ordered the less efficient 737-700 and then switched to the larger 737-900 within two months.\n\nOn 20 December 2017, the US Department of Commerce (DoC) confirmed the dumping and subsidization allegations, determined they were sold at 80% less than fair value and unfair subsidies of 212% were provided: the 292% tariff will be imposed, depending on the US ITC final injury determinations.\nFor airline analyst Leeham, the DoC ignored that the 737-700 production was over and the 737-7 MAX is an unattractive design that has garnered very little interest from airlines, while Boeing was unwilling to invest in a new single-aisle airplane.\n\nOn 21 December, Boeing and Embraer confirmed to be discussing a potential combination with a transaction subject to Brazilian government regulators, the companies' boards and shareholders approvals.\nThe Airbus-Bombardier tie-up is \"questionable\" for Boeing but it could mimic it at a larger scale and considering the financial and regulatory cost of an Embraer deal dismiss the Max 7 as a clear outright competitor: Boeing didn't have the right-sized airliner to compete for Delta and thus wasn't harmed by unfair competition.\n\nDelta, Bombardier and Boeing filed their last post-hearing briefs and exhibits on December 27.\nAs a 4 January 2018 ITC filing notes Bombardier did not provide the projected or estimated value of aircraft parts to be imported into the United States, the ITC could support Commerce's conclusions although they are two distinct agencies.\nOn 9 January, the ITC asked Bombardier to provide more information on renegotiations with Delta and the CSeries manufacture within a week.\nOn 10 January, the Canadian government filed a complaint at the World Trade Organization against the USA.\n\nTo support the four commissions' 25 January vote, the ITC staff published a 118-page report reviewing both arguments, summarizing its investigation from the legal submissions, public briefings and the airliner industry questionnaires, including manufacturers, airlines and lessors.\nThe report reviews aircraft distribution, production and characteristics leading to purchases and notes the complexity of aircraft demand, availability, prices, the amount of imports and their effect on Boeing's sales.\nIt notes a \"moderate-to-high degree of substitutability\" between the CS100/CS300s and the 737-700/Max 7, with the questionnaire reposnses reporting better availability, price, lifetime costs, fuel efficiency and technology for the CSeries, while Boeing has an edge for fleet commonality, performance and range.\n\nAs the ITC requested more details about the Alabama final assembly site, Bombardier responded on 17 January, saying that it was obtaining regulatory approvals, visiting the site and planning the details, while abiding by antitrust law requirements.\nBombardier has identified the tooling and equipment required, replicating its Mirabel plant and has prepared a human resources plan to recruit 400-500 employees.\nIn answering the ITC request for more information on its possible merger with Embraer, Boeing claims its regional jets do not, and will not, compete with the 737, unlike the CSeries, and that it has collaborated with the Brazilian company on previous projects.\nThe publicly available documents were heavily redacted and sparsely detailed.\n\nRepublican Alabama congressman Bradley Byrne and Kansas senator Jerry Moran have written the ITC to support Bombardier as the tariff would \"take work away from US suppliers and quash thousands of US jobs, ultimately hurting the greater US aerospace industry\".\nOn 23 January 2018, after Embraer increased the range of its E-jet E2-190 to nearly due to better than expected fuel burn during tests, Bombardier tried to draw it into the dispute, as it could fall within the seating and range parameters in question.\nThe request was rejected the next day.\n\nOn 26 January 2018, the ITC four commissioners unanimously determined the U.S. industry is not threatened and no duty orders will be issued, the Commission public report will be available by March 2, 2018.\nBombardier maintains its intent to open a final assembly site in Mobile, Alabama.\n\nAirinsight wrote that Bombardier was dumping aircraft below their cost is technically correct, like every other manufacturer, as early deliveries are sold to major launch customers at less their actual cost, not benefiting from learning curve improvements; and Bombardier did receive government subsidies for the program, like Airbus, Boeing, and Embraer have all received government subsidies ... but the ITC was also correct in finding \"no harm – no foul\".\"\n\nIn its reasoning published three weeks after, the ITC said \"Boeing lost no sales or revenues\" and \"The higher standard seating capacity of the 737-700 and 737 MAX 7 limits competition between those models and the CS100 for some purchasers\".\nBoeing can appeal the decision at the Court of International Trade in New York, or reach for a settlement under the backtracking NAFTA: compared with what has already been spent, the cost to appeal would be marginal.\nThe decision came down to seat count: \"Delta did not consider any new 100- to 150-seat [aircraft] from Boeing because the 126-seat 737-700 and the 138-seat 737 Max 7 were unsuitable for the mission profile in question\" and \"Because Boeing did not lose this sale to Delta, Delta's imports of CS100s will not displace domestically produced 100- to 150-seat [aircraft] from the US market\".\nLow launch pricing is common, as \"Boeing offered substantial discounts on many orders for out-of-scope 787 [aircraft] during the years following the new model's launch in 2004, but then secured substantially higher prices on subsequent orders\".\n\nThe published report could allow deliveries to Delta from Mirabel, Quebec in 2018, not having to wait for the proposed Alabama assembly site.\nDelta confirmed it will take deliveries from Canada this year to meet \"contractual commitments\", helping Bombardier meet its target of 40 deliveries up from 17 in 2017, but intends \"to take as many deliveries as possible from [Alabama] as soon as that facility is up and running\".\n\nOn March 22, Boeing declined to appeal the ruling.\nDelta will receive its first aircraft from Mirabel in the third quarter of 2018, contradicting Bombardier's 2017 testimony at the ITC that aircraft assembled in Quebec were not going to go to US customers.\nFrom 31 January 2019, they will be debuted from New York LaGuardia to Dallas/Fort Worth () and Boston Logan, while Delta told the commission that the airline would pay an additional fee if it was flown on routes averaging more than 1,000 nautical miles (1,852km).\nThe first -100 was delivered to Delta on 26 October 2018.\n\nIn a similar case in 1982 for 19-seat turboprops, Fairchild claimed its Metro (600 made between 1972 and 2001) was threatened by the Embraer Bandeirante (501 made between 1973 and 1990), Embraer argued that it would absurd to impose tariffs because 54% of its components were US-made and Fairchild suffered no damage from an airplane of different specifications: the Metro is a pressurised aircraft while the Bandeirante is not; the ITC rejected the complaint.\nIn 2010, the ITC was called to verify if Embraer received government support since 2006 while 13,000 Kansas workers lost their jobs in business jet manufacturing where Cessna, Hawker Beechcraft or Lear Jet have their factories; Florida testified in 2011 that the US was Embraer's largest supplier base and the ITC concluded that the Great Recession of 2008 depressed bizjet sales among lack of financing and credit and cost US jobs, not subsidies to Embraer.\n\nThe ITC staff report also reviews the May 1982 dismissed petition from the Commuter Aircraft Corporation claiming harm from ATR Aircraft subsidies and the August 1982 rejected petition from Fairchild Swearingen against Brazilian aircraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1212177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1212177", "title": "Care in the Community", "text": "Care in the Community\n\nCare in the Community (also called \"Community Care\" or \"Domiciled Care\") is the British policy of deinstitutionalization, treating and caring for physically and mentally disabled people in their homes rather than in an institution. Institutional care was the target of widespread criticism during the 1960s and 1970s, but it was not until 1983 that the government of Margaret Thatcher adopted a new policy of care after the Audit Commission published a report called 'Making a Reality of Community Care' which outlined the advantages of domiciled care.\n\nAlthough this policy has been attributed to the Margaret Thatcher government in the 1980s, community care was not a new idea. As a policy it had been around since the early 1950s. Its general aim was a more cost-effective way of helping people with mental health problems and physical disabilities, by removing them from impersonal, often Victorian, institutions, and caring for them in their own homes. Since the 1950s various governments had been attracted to the policy of community care. Despite support for the policy, the number of in-patients in large hospitals and residential establishments continued to increase. At the same time, public opinion was gradually turned against long-stay institutions by allegations from the media. Some might argue that such allegations were politically driven and that the deliberate underfunding, mismanagement and thus undermining of some institutions by the government was used as an excuse by the government to shut them down. It could also be argued that although there might have been incidents of where care should have been improved, the care in many such institutions may have been satisfactory or good.\n\nIn the 1960s Barbara Robb put together a series of accounts in a book called \"Sans Everything\" and she used this to launch a campaign to improve or else close long stay facilities. Shortly after this the brutality and poor care being meted out in Ely, a long stay hospital for the mentally handicapped in Cardiff, was exposed by a nurse writing to the \"News of the World\". This exposure prompted an official enquiry. Its findings were highly critical of conditions, staff morale and management. Rather than bury this report it was in fact deliberately leaked to the papers by the then Secretary of State for Health Richard Crossman, who hoped to obtain increased resources for the health service.\n\nFollowing the situation at Ely Hospital a series of scandals in mental hospitals hit the headlines. All told similar stories of abuse and inhumane treatment of patients who were out of sight and out of mind of the public, hidden away in institutions. At the same time Michael Ignatieff and Peter Townsend both published books which exposed the poor quality of care within certain institutions.\n\nIn the 1980s there was increasing criticism and concern about the quality of long term care for dependent people. There was also concern about the experiences of people leaving long term institutional care and being left to fend for themselves in the community. Yet the government was committed to the idea of 'care in the community'. In 1986 the Audit Commission published a report called 'Making a Reality of Community Care'. This report outlined the slow progress in resettling people from long stay hospitals. It was this report which prompted the subsequent Green and White papers on community care.\n\nThe main aim of community care policy has always been to maintain individuals in their own homes wherever possible, rather than provide care in a long-stay institution or residential establishment. It was almost taken for granted that this policy was the best option from a humanitarian and moral perspective. It was also thought to be cheaper.\n\nThe Guillebaud Committee, reporting in 1956, summed up the assumption underlying policy. It suggested that:\n\n\"Policy should aim at making adequate provision wherever possible for the care and treatment of old people in their own homes. The development of domiciliary services will be a genuine economy measure and also a humanitarian measure enabling people to lead the life they much prefer\"\n\nThree key objectives of Community Care policy:\n\nAn important point to note though is: that NHS services are free, whereas social services have to be paid for. So how the care you require is defined, that is health or social care, determines whether or not it will be free.\n\nSir Roy Griffiths had already been invited by Margaret Thatcher to produce a report on the problems of the NHS. This report was influenced by the ideology of managerialism. That is it was influenced by the idea that problems could be solved by 'management'. Griffiths firmly believed that many of the problems facing the Welfare State were caused by the lack of strong effective leadership and management. Because of this previous work, which was greatly admired by the Prime Minister, Griffiths was asked to examine the whole system of community care. In 1988 he produced a report or a Green Paper called 'Community Care: Agenda for Action', also known as The Griffiths Report.\n\nGriffiths intended this plan to sort out the mess in 'no-man's land'. That is the grey area between health and social services. This area included the long term or continuing care of dependent groups such as older people, disabled and the mentally ill.\nIn 1988 Griffiths said of community care that it was \"everybody's distant cousin but nobody's baby\".\n\nBasically he was saying that community care was not working because no one wanted to accept the responsibility for community care.\n\nCommunity Care: Agenda for Action made six key recommendations for action:\n\n\nThe majority of long term care was already being provided by Social Services, but Griffiths' idea was to put community nursing staff under the control of local authority rather than Health Boards. This never actually happened. The Griffiths Report on Community Care seemed to back local government whereas, the health board reforms in the same period, actually strengthened central government control.\n\nIn 1989 the government published its response to the Griffiths Report in the White Paper \"Caring for People: Community Care in the next Decade and Beyond\". This was a companion paper to \"Working for Patients\" and shared the same general principles:\n\nThe White Paper followed the main recommendations of the Griffiths Report but with two notable exceptions.\n\nIt did however; identify six key objectives which differed slightly from Griffiths Report.\n\nThese objectives required new legislation which was enacted in the National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990.\n\nThe community care reforms outlined in the 1990 Act have been in operation since April 1993. They have been evaluated but no clear conclusions have been reached. A number of authors have been highly critical of the reforms. Hadley and Clough (1996) claim the reforms 'have created care in chaos' (Hadley and Clough 1996) They claim the reforms have been inefficient, unresponsive, offering no choice or equity. Other authors however, are not quite so pessimistic.\n\nMeans and Smith (1998) also claim that the reforms:\n\nUnder the National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990, people with mental health problems were able to remain in their own homes whilst undergoing treatment. This situation raised some concerns when acts of violence were perpetrated against members of the public by a small minority of people who had previously been in psychiatric hospitals. And, conversely, Psychiatric patients are three times as likely to be victims of crime than the general public, according to research carried out by King's College London and St George's. \n\nThe National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990 was passed so that patients could be individually assessed, and assigned a specific care worker; in the unlikely event that they presented a risk they were to be placed on a Supervision Register. But there have been some problems with patients \"slipping through the net\" and ending up homeless on the street. There have also been arguments between Health and Social Services departments on who should pay.\n\nIn January 1998, the Labour Health Secretary, Frank Dobson, said the care in the community programme launched by the Conservatives had failed.\n\nAs Simon Duffy and others have emphasised needs assessments were often distorted so a person's \"needs\" were interpreted to fit available resources. The development of personal budgets, where the person was given control of resources, rather than provided with services, was intended to tackle this problem.\n\nBBC Panorama's team in 2011 filmed a fly-on-the-wall documentary at Winterbourne View, which was a private long-term hospital for people with learning disability. This was done in response to disclosures of alleged abuse and of a failure of the authorities, including the regulator to take action on reports of abuse.\n\nThe broadcast program showed physical and verbal abuse of people, a negative culture of frustration and boredom, and lack of any structured treatment for the inpatients.\n\nAfter this, health authorities promised to reduce the number of placements in large units where people were cared for inadequately, far from home, and on a long term basis. It was planned to have a reduction in the number of these placements, with alternative more satisfactory small scale services provided. However, after four years, the Bubb report highlighted that there had been little change, and proposed the way forward for service improvement. It advocated listening to, and empowering people with disability and their families, and the use of smaller, more local services with different kinds of funding.\n\nIn March 2015 Norman Lamb, the Minister of State for Care and Support launched a twelve-week consultation process on how the changes to services should be implemented. While welcomed by most, others saw progress as lamentably slow on the identified issues for what amounts to community care for people with learning disability and autism. Margaret Hodge, chair of the Public Accounts Committee, on hearing the outlined plans of the health service on these proposed changes, said:\n\n″Why can’t we just get on and do it?..To say it’s going to go into a green paper fills me with horror. It suggests to me that our successors will be sitting round the table in a couple of years’ time having the same conversation.” \n\n"}
{"id": "14413442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14413442", "title": "Caretaker government of Australia", "text": "Caretaker government of Australia\n\nIn Australian political and constitutional terminology, a caretaker government is a government of Australia from when the House of Representatives (usually but not necessarily concurrently with the Senate) is dissolved by the Governor-General prior to a general election to a period after the election, until the next ministry is appointed. A caretaker government is expected to conduct itself in accordance with a series of well-defined conventions administered by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, but there is no law compelling the caretaker government to do so.\n\nUnder normal circumstances, there is no separate appointment of a caretaker government. The incumbent Prime Minister simply puts the government into \"caretaker mode.\" During the 1975 Australian constitutional crisis, the Governor-General, Sir John Kerr, appointed a new government headed by Malcolm Fraser, subject to Fraser's agreement that he would immediately advise a general election, and his government would operate on a caretaker basis in the meantime. It was a unique set of circumstances, leading to a unique solution.\n\nThe caretaker convention also precludes public servants from making any political statements while the government is in caretaker mode.\n\nAustralian constitutional practice calls for a government to continue in office even after parliament has been dissolved, during the election period and then into the next parliament only until the next government can be formed. The Prime Minister can however resign office and advise the Governor-General or Governor at any time to appoint a new government. The operation of the Australian political system ensures that a Cabinet is always maintained and that caretaker governments abide by the conventions. \n\nA document entitled \"Guidance on Caretaker Conventions\" is administered by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. Section 1.2 of the Caretaker Conventions states that a caretaker government operates until the election result clearly indicates that either the incumbent party has retained power, or in the case where there is to be a change of government, until the new government is appointed by the Governor-General. Section 1.6 indicates that these conventions are not legally binding, and do not constitute \"hard and fast rules.\" In practice, any flouting of the conventions by a caretaker government would immediately come to light, and could go against them in the election campaign. \n\nThere are occasions when major appointments or decisions cannot wait until after the election, and the opposition would normally be consulted about them, ensuring a bipartisan approach.\n\nCaretaker provisions explicitly recognise that after the dissolution of parliament, the business of government must continue and that \"ordinary matters of administration\" must be addressed. Provisions allow for the normal operations of all government departments. However, the caretaker conventions impose some restrictions on the conduct of the caretaker government. The conventions broadly include the following:\n\nIf the incumbent prime minister will after an election continue to command a majority of seats in the House of Representatives, the incumbent government ceases to operate in a caretaker mode.\n\nWhen an opposition party or coalition wins enough seats at a general election to be able to command a majority in the House of Representatives, the convention is for the incumbent Prime Minister to publicly concede defeat and, still in caretaker mode, give formal advice to the Governor-General of no longer being able to govern and advising who should be invited to form government, which is usually the leader of the party or coalition of parties who now commands a majority of votes in the House of Representatives. The Governor-General requests the incumbent Prime Minister and his or her Ministers to remain in office on a caretaker basis until a new government is sworn in, and contacts the nominated successor and invites him or her to form a government. The nominated successor accepts the invitation and undertakes to inform the Governor-General when the new Ministry is in a position to be sworn in. That can be delayed by the counting of votes in closely contested seats or by the processes by which ministers are chosen under the relevant party's rules. In the meantime, the caretaker government continues in office until the government is sworn in.\n\nIf it is unclear to the incumbent prime minister who will be able to command a majority in the House of Representatives, he or she may delay advising the Governor-General as to a potential change of government, and may negotiate an agreement with cross-bench members as to whether they will vote with a future government on questions of confidence and supply, and may even delay a final decision until the next House of Representatives sits, to let the House \"test the numbers\" by a formal vote in the House, or may advise the Governor-General to hold fresh elections.\n\nIn most cases, several weeks can elapse between an election and the swearing-in of a new government. An exception came in 1972, when Gough Whitlam had himself and his deputy, Lance Barnard, sworn in as a two-man government on 5 December, only three days after the election, as soon as Labor's victory over the Coalition was beyond doubt. That lasted until Whitlam's full ministry was sworn in on 19 December.\n\nThe first Australian federal government, headed by Prime Minister Edmund Barton, was sworn in on 1 January 1901, the day on which the Federation of Australia took effect, whereby the six colonies of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania became States of the Commonwealth of Australia. The first election for the new Parliament of Australia was not held until 29 and 30 March 1901. In the meantime, Barton's government operated in a caretaker capacity but, due to the need to quickly establish administrative processes and make important appointments, they were not as inhibited by the caretaker conventions as later governments were.\n\nIn June 1914, a double dissolution election was called for 5 September, with the incumbent government duly going into caretaker mode. However, Britain declared war against Germany in August, and Australia went onto a war footing. The caretaker conventions had to be relaxed because of the state of war, with the support of all major parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "1702860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1702860", "title": "Constitutional theocracy", "text": "Constitutional theocracy\n\nThe phrase constitutional theocracy describes a form of elected government in which one single religion is granted an authoritative central role in the legal and political system. In contrast to a pure theocracy, power resides in lay political figures operating within the bounds of a constitution, rather than in the religious leadership.\n\nThe phrase was used in connection with the Iranian government of Ayatollah Khomeini in 1987 by Olivier Roy, and from the 1990s onward has been used in discussions of Iran, and occasionally of other governments. Professor Mahmood Mamdani has spoken of a \"constitutional theocracy\" in the context of \"a state–wide clerical authority in Iran\". Ran Hirschl of the University of Toronto law school has written more than one article discussing \"constitutional theocracies\": for example considering \"modern states formally governed by principles of Islamic Shari'a laws\".\n\nThe concept of \"constitutional theocracy\" is also used by journalists writing about Iran, or about the process of developing a constitution in Iraq, and in general discussions of the relationship between religion and government.\nFollowing its link with Iran's \"Islamic revolution\", the phrase has also been used to discuss, among other topics, early twentieth-century Turkish politics and contemporary Chechnyan politics.\n\nProfessor Hirschl has expanded on the distinction between constitutional theocracies and ordinary democracies in his article, 'Constitutional Courts vs. Religious Fundamentalism: Three Middle Eastern Tales.\" where he says:\n\n\"The original text of Article 2 of the 1971 Egyptian Constitution read: 'Islam is the religion of the State, Arabic is its official language, and the principles of Islamic Shari’a are a principal source of legislation.' On May 22, 1980, the text of Article 2 was changed to read, 'Islam is the religion of the State, Arabic is its official language, and the principles of Islamic Shari’a are the principal source of legislation.' The result of this amendment effectively transformed Egypt into a 'constitutional theocracy,' in which no legislation could contravene Islamic legal principles.\"\n\nHirschl refers to the existence of official, government-established Shari’a courts in both Egypt and Iran as evidence that these are constitutional theocracies. Though his definition seems generally compatible with other views that a constitutional theocracy is a government using a single religion as its sole source of law, other writers do not mention Egypt as often as Iran in this context.\n\nThe lack of any official, government-established Shari'a courts in Iraq, and the use of the phrase \"a principal source of legislation\"\" rather than \"the principal source of legislation\"\" in the Iraqi constitution, has been understood to mean that Iraq is not a constitutional theocracy, at least according to Hirschl's definition.\n"}
{"id": "1795916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1795916", "title": "David McNally (professor)", "text": "David McNally (professor)\n\nDavid McNally is an activist and the Cullen Distinguished Professor of History and Business at the University of Houston. He was previously (1983-2018) a professor of Political Science at York University in Toronto, Ontario, and past chair of the university's Department of Political Science. He is the author of many books and scholarly articles and the winner of the 2012 Deutscher Memorial Award and the 2012 Paul Sweezy Award.\n\nHe has a long history of involvement with and support for social justice movements and organizations.\n\nHe has published many books, including:\n\n\nHe has contributed over 60 articles to journals such as \"Historical Materialism\", \"Capital and Class\", \"History of Political Thought\", \"New Politics\" and \"Studies in Political Economy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30475171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30475171", "title": "Dedoose", "text": "Dedoose\n\nDedoose is a web application for mixed methods research developed by academics from UCLA, with support from the William T. Grant Foundation, and is the successor to EthnoNotes.\n\nDedoose is designed, developed, and operated by SocioCultural Research Consultants (SCRC), whose majority of ownership (i.e. 2 people) consists of academics from UCLA.\n\nDedoose is an alternative to other qualitative data analysis software, explicitly aimed at facilitating rigorous mixed methods research. It is used by researchers funded by the William T. Grant Foundation, including among those in its Faculty Scholars Program. Dedoose and EthnoNotes have gained recognition for their integration of qualitative and quantitative data analysis methods in combination with interactive data visualizations. The Dedoose family of tools have been used in a wide variety of studies in many industries from medical, market research, social policy research, and other academic social science research\n\nOn May 6, 2014, Dedoose suffered a major system failure, resulting in the corruption and loss of significant amounts of data and service availability problems. All accounts created after March 2 and all data added after March 30 were erased. Data added to the system in March by existing users was restored to Dedoose on May 16. According to SCRC, the system crash involved a failure of its Microsoft Azure cloud services during a database backup. SCRC took full responsibility for the crash and pledged \"to do all we can to help rebuild any project if there are tangible ways we can assist.\" \nCarl Straumsheim noted that 'the Dedoose crash should serve as a warning to colleges and universities as they consider moving sensitive information to the cloud' \n\n"}
{"id": "337660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337660", "title": "Defence minister", "text": "Defence minister\n\nThe title Defense Minister, Minister for Defense, Minister of National Defense, Secretary of Defense, Secretary of State for Defense or some similar variation, is assigned to the person in a cabinet position in charge of a Ministry of Defense, which regulates the armed forces in sovereign states. The role of a defence minister varies considerably from country to country; in some the minister is only in charge of general budget matters and procurement of equipment; while in others the minister is also, in addition, an integral part of the operational military chain of command.\n\nPrior to the 20th century, there were in most countries separate ministerial posts for the land forces (often called \"minister for war\") and the naval forces. In the interwar period, some countries created a separate ministerial post in charge of the air forces. After the end of World War II, the trend in most countries was to merge the several separate ministerial posts into a single defence minister in charge of all the armed forces. Another common reform which occurred at the end of World War II was to place the defence minister in a national security council, war cabinet, or a \"Kitchen Cabinet\", which allows the head of government or head of state to coordinate military, diplomatic and economic activities.\n\nThe Defence Ministry in some countries is a very important ministry, sometimes considered more important than the foreign ministry. If war is common for a country, the defence minister's position is often assumed by the head of government. (For example, five Prime Ministers of Israel have held the Defense (Security) Ministry during their Premiership). In some nations there is a strong convention that the defence minister has to be a civilian, in order to highlight civilian control over the military, though it's not uncommon for the defence minister to have some (or even extensive) military experience.\n\nThe People's Republic of China is very unusual in that the Ministry of National Defence (MND) is relatively powerless; it does not have command over the People's Liberation Army. Command of the military belongs in the party and in the state Central Military Commission (CMC); the MND exists primarily as a liaison and protocol office to communicate with foreign militaries. Essentially, the MND exists only because most other nations have defence ministries, and for protocol and liaison purposes, the PRC needs to have an institution corresponding with those of other governments. However, the Minister of National Defence (who is usually a senior, although not always the highest ranking, military officer) is always a CMC member and usually a Vice Chairman and State Councillor, and this is an authoritative position.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34072748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34072748", "title": "Dr. America: The Lives of Thomas Dooley, 1927-1961", "text": "Dr. America: The Lives of Thomas Dooley, 1927-1961\n\nDr. America: The Lives of Thomas A. Dooley, 1927-1961, a book written by James T. Fisher, provides a historical discussion of Thomas Anthony Dooley III, an American medical missionary who worked in Vietnam and Laos in the 50' and early 60'. The book itself is viewed not only as a statement on Dooley’s \"lives\" as a medical missionary, but it is also a socially scientific analysis of his life. A central argument of the book is that Dooley’s work laid the ideological foundation for U.S. entry into Vietnam. Other important topics discussed are Dooley's personal journey towards becoming a \"Jungle Doctor,\" Dooley's similarities and differences from Albert Schweitzer, Dooley as a contemporary Jesus or a redeemed man, and Dooley as a \"historical bridge\" between anticommunist McCarthyism and the Vietnam-oriented Kennedy era. The biography is one volume of a series titled \"Culture, Politics, and the Cold War\" edited by Christian G. Appy.\n\nFisher presents Dooley's life as a historical bildungsroman towards a \"Jungle Doctor of a New Age,\" and he makes it clear that he will do so when he says that Dooley went from an \"Irish-American rake\" to a worldwide celebrity who served as a \"historical bridge\" between McCarthyism and the Vietnam-oriented Kennedy era of the 1960s. Dooley goes from a boy, adolescent, and bachelor who disregards rules and remains unaware of the sociopolitical forces shaping his character to a medical officer of the military acting as a political pawn and finally to a \"Jungle Doctor\" who seeks to transcend political agendas while bridging the older age of anticommunism with the newer age of the Vietnam-oriented Kennedy era.\n\nAt the start of Fisher's historical narrative, Dooley appears as an adolescent who defies the rules of his Catholic high school yet manages to get away with his wrongdoings because of his likable personality. Fisher presents Dooley as naive and unaware that he was being indoctrinated with Catholic values, and this aspect of his personality remains static throughout his college life. He points out that Dooley's disregard for rules contributed to his becoming a pawn for US intelligence operations in Vietnam (Dooley's expulsion from medical school compelled him to join the military and serve as medical officer). Dooley was just the man needed to establish a friendship between the United States and South Vietnam, and US intelligence officers such as Edward Lansdale exploited Dooley's personality to enhance US anticommunist presence in Indochina. Dooley’s time in the military allowed him to medically aid the destitute from North Vietnam, thereby allowing him to effectively cultivate a friendship with the emerging political leader in the South Ngo Dinh Diem. Fisher also cites Dooley's membership in the Vietnam Lobby as evidence for the idea that Dooley was exploited as a political tool for Cold War interests.\n\nBut Fisher then points out that after Dooley's expulsion from the military because of his homosexuality, Dooley sought to transcend the idea of a political pawn by learning to serve as an actual \"Jungle Doctor.\" Like Albert Schweitzer, Dooley learned how to market himself to the public, a crucial characteristic of the \"Jungle Doctor\" archetype that Albert Schweitzer had already established. Fisher proposes that through media and showbiz, both of which were facilitated by Dooley's experience as a pawn advancing Cold War agendas, Dooley gave himself enough of the publicity attached with assuming the \"Jungle Doctor\" identity that government officials were taking Dooley's plans into consideration when constructing their political agendas (unlike before, when Dooley was instructed to follow what he was told by CIA officers). Dooley obtained an avenue for self-marketing when, during his time in the military, intelligence officers connected him with William J. Lederer, a public information officer who helped Dooley publish \"Deliver Us from Evil\".\n\nFisher reveals how Dooley latched onto the \"Jungle Doctor\" identity when he adopted his first civilian mission: Operation Laos. After Dooley met with Albert Schweitzer, the exemplar of the \"Jungle Doctor\" archetype, to learn from Schweitzer's work, Dooley began establishing clinics in Laos which were financially fortified by donations including those from Catholic congregations. During these missions, Dooley was portrayed as an altruist who genuinely cared about the people whom he served, a portrayal consistent with the \"Jungle Doctor\" identity.\n\nFisher clearly mentions that Dooley's journey through life terminates not simply in his becoming a \"Jungle Doctor\" but also in his becoming a \"Jungle Doctor\" \"of a new age\". Fisher points out that Dooley served as the \"historical bridge\" between the older era of McCarthyism and the newer age of Irish Catholic John F. Kennedy, and he uses two facts to support this claim. First, Dooley was friends with Kennedy's father and president Kennedy himself, and second, Dooley was also an Irish Catholic (like President Kennedy) who used showbiz to promote his work.\n\nUltimately, Fisher presents a bildungsroman in real life: Thomas Dooley, a man who builds himself into a \"Jungle Doctor of a New Age\" from an \"undisciplined Irish-American rake.\"\n\nAlthough Dooley explicitly claims that he and Schweitzer have different, somewhat opposite philosophies as to how they approach their medical missionary work, Fisher portrays the two medical missionaries as two opposites who make similar global impacts. Whereas Fisher shows Schweitzer as a Protestant missionary from a family of intellectuals including his cousin (philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre), Dooley comes from a family of corporate businessmen of the 1920s. Schweitzer was a Protestant missionary, whereas Dooley was Irish Catholic. Whereas Schweitzer did not uniquely identify with a specific nationality while performing his medical missionary work as a whole, Fisher cites Dooley as someone who claims to bring uniquely American values to Southeast Asia. In fact, Fisher points out that Dooley's objective was to show the Laotians how good the Americans were in going to help improve their medical well-being. Fisher also presents how effective this was, citing the Laotian term \"Thanh Mo America\" (Dr. America) used to address Dooley. Not only did Schweitzer not explicitly identify with the values of his German and French background, but he also expressed his dislike for Dooley's identification with American principles. And not only did Schweitzer dislike some of the ways Dooley approached his medical missionary work, but Fisher also cites Dooley distinguishing himself from aspects of Schweitzer's identity. Whereas Schweitzer was claimed to harbor racist, colonialist, and paternalist attitudes towards the people whom he helped, Dooley explicitly mentioned in Fisher's biography that he was not racist, not colonialist, and not paternalist.\n\nHowever, Fisher points out that despite their differences, the two ultimately arrive at similar types of work, achieve similar results, and harbor many personal similarities. Dooley and Schweitzer showed self-righteous behavior, Schweitzer in his love for the camera and Dooley in benefiting from an eponyme song by the Kingston Trio, or even by giving media coverage to his surgical intervention for cancer to sensitize donators in favour of his foundation (Medico). Both gained world fame, as evidenced by the Nobel Peace Prize awarded to Schweitzer in 1954 and by Dooley claimed to have attained \"world fame\" in his obituary in \"Time\" magazine. Both establish clinics (Schweitzer in French equatorial Africa and Dooley in Laos), and Fisher shows both Schweitzer and Dooley as characteristic of the \"planner\" model of medical missionary work described in William Easterly's \"The White Man's Burden: Why the West's Efforts to Aid the Rest Have Done So Much Ill and So Little Good\" (unlike Leader Stirling, who adopted more of the \"searcher\" perspective that Easterly describes). Also, Fisher mentions that both Schweitzer and Dooley were criticized for being so absorbed with self-marketing and public image that they were absent for long periods of time from where they were performing their medical missionary work.\n\nWhen evaluating Dooley, Fisher presents the question of whether Dooley is best seen as a contemporary Jesus or simply as an individual redeemed by his good works in Laos. Fisher cites a letter by a third grader to Dooley claiming that Dooley is \"just like Jesus.\" Teresa Gallagher names Dooley a \"little flower of Jesus\" in her prayer for him. However, Fisher also presents Dooley as an egotist who loves the media; Jesus, on the other hand, has been considered a selfless individual who surrenders his will to God's. Fisher also shows Dooley as a man with personal vices (such as an unawareness of the political forces shaping his character) who seeks to redeem himself from falling prey to United States political agendas. As Dooley switches from more militarily based missionary work to civilian missionary work, Fisher points out that Dooley's motivations become more religious rather than political. He points to Dooley's ardently professed Catholicism in his later life as evidence supporting this notion. While Fisher does not assess which of these two presentations is more valid, the latter portrayal of Dooley is consistent with the fact that medical missionary work has been seen as a heroic or redeeming endeavor.\n\nFisher proposes that Dooley serves as a \"historical bridge\" between anticommunist McCarthyism and the Vietnam-oriented Kennedy era. At the end of the book, Fisher states, \"in the end he [Dooley] provided the bridge between Joe McCarthy and Jack Kennedy, to the great benefit of the latter...that accomplishment...ushered in a new dispensation in American life, rich in the kind of tragedy and hope this 'old romantic' had so ardently cultivated in his own brief lifetime.\" The author points to two major points that support his claim: first, Fisher claims that Dooley's motivation to serve as a medical missionary during his time in the military was fueled by his desire to eradicate communism from South Vietnam and to establish a democracy there. This ideology was consistent with the domino theory that motivated the US to enter Vietnam. Second, Dooley had a strong friendship with Kennedy's father, and both Dooley and Kennedy were young Irish Catholics. The fact that both anticommunism and the young Irish Catholic spirit of Kennedy were embodied in Dooley supports Fisher's claim of Dooley serving as a \"historical bridge\" between these two time periods.\n\nFisher also develops the notion that Dooley'action, principes and commitment were fueling the transition from the era of a confessional help to the poors towards a post-confessional, ie humanitarian help, as a consequence of the shift from the colonial era towards the cold war era, an humanitarian action which is linked to political and economical interest to the third-world populations. J.F. Kennedy will invoke Dooley's action when creating the American Peace Corps, conceived as a tool to diffuse a pro-American feeling through a direct person to person interaction in the social field, as advocated by T. A. Dooley.\n\n\"Dr. America: The Lives of Thomas A. Dooley, 1927-1961\" is the first historical biography of Dooley that has been claimed to evenhandedly evaluate him as a historical figure. Most pieces written about Dooley have either praised or condemned him. As for praise, in \"People\" magazine 18 years after Dooley's death, a priest claimed that Dooley \"was a saint\" and not a \"CIA spook\". In addition, in the April 20, 1958, issue of the \"New York Times Magazine\", Dooley is claimed to have provided a novel \"human touch\" to foreign aid. Dooley's obituary also describes him positively, namely as someone who \"won world fame\" tending to the medical needs of Laotians and the Vietnamese. More critical assessments of Dooley have also been made. Some of the 1950s media condemned him as an absentee missionary who was simply attracting attention to an organization that he did not directly supervise. However, Fisher's biography provides a more neutral view of Dooley, claiming that Dooley, although in some way constrained to his \"missionary position\" by his successive evictions from medical exercise in the USA and from the Army, was a \"historical bridge\" between anticommunism and the Vietnam-oriented Kennedy era of the 1960s.\n\nThe biography is also one of the few books that evenhandedly evaluate Dooley in the context of medical missionary publications. Most publications about medical missionaries make an overall judgment about their work or their character, and the prose of these publications adheres to such judgments. Tracy Kidder, in \"Mountains Beyond Mountains\", provides a generally favorable view of Paul Farmer as a medical missionary. In the foreword to Albert Schweitzer's \"The Primeval Forest\", William Foege portrays a generally positive view of Schweitzer, saying that his book \"is the story of a gifted scholar who had golden opportunities to enrich himself.\" Publications making more negative statements of medical missionaries are also present. Toni Morrison's bestselling novel \"Song of Solomon\" provides an unfavorable view of Schweitzer, presenting him as someone who didn't care about Africans but who was \"in a laboratory testing himself.\" Fisher's publication ultimately remains as one of the few that provide an evenhanded portrayal of a medical missionary.\n\nThe biography received generally positive reviews. \"Kirkus Reviews\" magazine described the book as \"an accomplished biography of an almost forgotten, but important, player in American Vietnam War policy-making in the 1950s,\" calling it \"insightful and enlightening.\" \"Washington Post Book World\" affirmed the book's evenhanded portrayal of Dooley. The reviewer said that Fisher \"gives us, as his subtitle promises, many 'lives': a vain, arrogant, self-promoting, ambitious, manipulative storyteller who knew how to exaggerate, tell small fibs and big lies; but also a sensitive, generous, idealistic and compassionate doctor who put himself on the line, under difficult circumstances for the most needy of people.\"\n\nOne review published in \"The Catholic Historical Review\" disagrees with Fisher's analysis of Dooley's personality. Reviewer William D. Sharpe said that Fisher mistakenly pointed to Dooley's homosexuality as Dooley's personal flaw. Sharpe said that Dooley's personal flaw was his \"lying, egocentricity, manipulativeness, and lack of close human relationships,\" not his unconventional relationships with his other men.\n\nAlso, while Fisher calls Dooley an \"authentic spy,\" a priest quoted in \"People\" magazine claims that Dooley was \"a CIA informant, not a spy.\"\n\nIn addition, while Fisher presents Dooley's life as growth into a \"Jungle Doctor,\" he presents quotations claiming that Dooley remains an \"overgrown kid\" throughout his life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53359190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53359190", "title": "Duterte Youth", "text": "Duterte Youth\n\nThe Duterte Youth is a right-wing youth organization which supports the administration of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte.\n\nIt is led by Ronald Cardema who is the group's chairman. Cardema is also the chairman of the Kabataan for Bongbong Movement, a youth organization supporting Ferdinand Marcos Jr..\n\nThe group has also been compared to the Hitler Youth of the Nazi Party.\n\nIt was formed in 2016 and has supported the presidential campaign of Duterte leading to the 2016 Philippine elections. The group first held their rally on November 25 which coincided with protest action against the burial of Ferdinand Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery to express their support to Duterte. The rally was attended by 20 to 50 people. \n\nIn December 2016, Cardema claimed that the Duterte Youth has already 600 members across the Philippines.\n\nThe Duterte Youth reportedly said in February 2017 that they plan to recruit 1 million members by recruiting 1,000 people in each municipality and 5,000 each in each city ages 15 to 30.\n\nAccording to Cardema in December 2016, his group supports all of Duterte's policies including the death penalty and federalism, except the implementation of the Philippine war on drugs which resulted to deaths. He said that the group only supports detainment of suspected drug lords and users. Cardema suggests rehabilitating addicts pointing to the fact that a drug rehabilitation facility had just opened at that time.\n\nIn August 2016, the group has expressed support for the revival of mandatory Reserve Officers' Training Corps program for college students as well as support for Citizenship Advancement Training for high school students and scouting for elementary students. The Duterte Youth cited South Korea and Singapore for their similar programs for the youth which they believe has instilled nationalism, discipline and cooperation among their youth.\n\nWhen the group reportedly announced their recruitment plans, the youth organization said that they will help secure the presidency of Duterte against plots to oust him, as well as help the police and military detain criminals.\n\nCardema has acknowledged that his group has been compared to the Hitler Youth of the Nazi Party but emphasized that German youth organization existed in \"different generation, a different continent, in a different context\". He response to those drawing comparisons that the Hitler Youth has no patent over its name, that it is not \"forbidden\" for a group to attach the word \"Youth\" to a name of a non-German President, and remarked that \"all countries have youth\".\n"}
{"id": "24322875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24322875", "title": "Echoworx", "text": "Echoworx\n\nEchoworx, an email encryption software company, is based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, with offices in Hermosa Beach, California and London, UK. As a certificate authority, Echoworx is a member of both the Microsoft Root Certificate Program and Apple Root Certificate Program. Echoworx operates several data centers, including locations in the United States and Europe.\n\nFounded in 2000, Echoworx is headed by its CEO and president Michael Ginsberg, formerly the CEO of CertaPay, an email money transfer technology company.\n\nIn December 2005, AT&T was one of the first telecommunications companies in the United States to white-label and provide Echoworx encryption services to its subscribers.\n\nVerizon Communications, a Dow 30 company which delivers broadband and other communication to wireline and wireless customers, launched encrypted email products in December 2005.\n\nBritish Telecom is a leading provider of communications solutions and services operating in 170 countries. British Telecom launched BT Secure Mail and Encrypted Message Exchange (BT EMX) based on public key infrastructure (PKI) in October 2007.\n\nMessageLabs, a provider of integrated messaging and web security services, launched Echoworx policy based encryption and was later acquired by Symantec in October 2008.\n\nApptix is an application service provider (ASP) technology company providing hosted business services (or software as a service)) for small and medium-sized businesses. It provided Apptix Secure Mail powered by Echoworx as part of its Hosted Email Security Services portfolio. It launched the service in April 2010.\n\nHostway, an infrastructure-as-a-service provider, partnered with Echoworx to provide encryption services in 2011.\n\nThe company's original priority was the small business market, but this has evolved to the enterprise and corporate market.\n\nEchoworx offers several products in the area of email encryption. Its products are offered both through direct sales and as a white-labelled product through several partners. Major offerings include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4996904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4996904", "title": "Eden Atwood", "text": "Eden Atwood\n\nEden Atwood is an American jazz singer and actress. She is the daughter of composer Hubbard Atwood and the granddaughter of the novelist A. B. Guthrie Jr.\n\nAtwood was born in Memphis, Tennessee. When she was five, her parents got a divorce, and she moved with her mother to Montana. Her mother's father was novelist A. B. Guthrie Jr. Her father, Hubbard Atwood, was a composer and arranger. He wrote the songs \"Tell Me About Yourself\" for Nat King Cole, \"I Was the Last One to Know\" for Stan Kenton, and \"No One Ever Tells You\" for Frank Sinatra. She took piano lessons, and she sang in a rock band in high school but quit due to damage to her vocal chords. She went to the University of Montana, where she concentrated on musical theater and drama. For six months, she attended the American Conservatory of Music in Chicago. She gave a demo tape to a bar owner in Chicago, and after hearing her he made her the headliner.\n\nIn 1992, Atwood had recurring roles on the soap opera \"Loving\" and the crime drama \"The Commish\". At the same time, she began singing in clubs in New York City. Marian McPartland, a pianist and radio host, heard a copy of Atwood's debut album, \"Today!\" (1992), which was independently produced the previous year. McPartland sent a copy to Concord Records, which then made Atwood one of the youngest musicians to sign a contract with Concord. The debut album was reissued under the name \"No One Ever Tells You\".\n\nAtwood was born with Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome (AIS), an intersex trait occurring in approximately 1 in 20,000 people. In a person with complete AIS, the body's cells are unable to respond to androgens, \"male\" hormones. She discussed AIS for the first time publicly with Bill Kohlhaase in the liner notes for her 2002 album, \"Waves: The Bossa Nova Session\". In 2008, she was featured on ABC's \"Primetime Live\".\n\nAtwood is a co-founder of The Interface Project, a project that shares stories of people born with intersex conditions.\n\n\nWith Jeremy Monteiro\n"}
{"id": "1749638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1749638", "title": "Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential", "text": "Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\n\nThe Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential is published by the Union of International Associations (UIA). It is available online since 2000, and was previously available as a CD-ROM and as a three-volume book. The online Encyclopedia is currently in a redevelopment phase.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" was started in 1972 and now comprises more than 100,000 entries and 700,000 links, as well as 500 pages of introductory notes and commentaries. The Encyclopedia collects information on problems, strategies, values, concepts of human development, and various intellectual resources.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\" is made up from data gathered from many sources. Those data are grouped into various databases which constitute the backbone of the \"Encyclopedia\". The databases are searchable; query results may be seen as lists or as various visualizations.\n\n\n• Basic universal problems include danger, lack of information, social injustice, war, environmental degradation. \n• Cross-sectoral problems include animal suffering, irresponsible nationalism, soil degradation. \n• Detailed problems include detention of mothers, epidemics, white-collar crime.\n• Emanations of other problems include terrorism targeted against tourists, injustice of mass trials, threatened species of Caudata. \n• Fuzzy exceptional problems include blaming victims, pacifism, unconstrained free trade.\n• Very specific problems include blue baby, tomato mottle virus, costly uniforms.\n• Problems under consideration include feminist backlash, mudslide.\n• Suspect problems include threatened species of Zapus hudsonius preblei, uncommitted volunteer workers.\n\n• Abstract fundamental strategies include compromising, transcending, providing.\n• Basic universal strategies include eliminating discrimination, combating desertification, reducing unemployment.\n• Cross-sectoral strategies include orienting economic policy toward social need, managing crises. \n• Detailed strategies include establishing national government NGO departments, using psychological warfare. \n• Emanations of other strategies include lifting restrictions on human rights advocacy, reviewing provisions of the UN Charter. \n• Exceptional strategies include begging, rechanneling expenditures on defence, advocating nihilism.\n• Very specific strategies include working with young people, undertaking public works. \n• Unconfirmed strategies include abolishing zoos, ventilating air through buildings. \n• Provisional strategies include developing chest radiology, preserving internal political borders. \n• Strategy polarities include deepening-shallowing, intuiting-reasoning, supporting-opposing. \n• Strategy roles include advisor, traitor, confessor.\n• Strategy types or complexes include communication, judgement, time.\n\n• Constructive values include peace, harmony, beauty. \n• Destructive values include conflict, depravity, ugliness.\n• Value polarities include agreement-disagreement, freedom-restraint, pleasure-displeasure. \n• Value clusters include feeling complex, interaction complex, communication complex.\n\n• Concepts of human development include vocational training, benevolence, emancipation of the self.\n• Modes of awareness include compassion, sense of shame, conviction, sense of humor.\n\n• Communication: Forms of presentation include animation, statistical indicators, prophecy. \n• Metaphors include ball games, sexual intercourse, personification, stick and carrot processes.\n• Patterns (Christopher Alexander) include encirclement, internal connectedness between domains, partially isolated contexts.\n• Symbols include birds, food-related objects, sacred calendar.\n• Transformative conferencing includes aggressive participant type, lecture, team roles.\n• Transformative metaphors (I Ching) include creativity, receptivity, inexperience. \n\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" online databases consist of over 100,000 entries (also called profiles) and 700,000 links. An entry, for instance War, may include the following elements:\n1) name, alternative names, nature or definition, background or context, incidence (for problems) or implementation (for strategies), claim of importance, counter-claim, quotations or aphorisms (for values);\n2) links to the same database entries that are more general (broader), more specific (narrower), related (in some as yet unspecified manner), preceding (aggravating or reducing problems, constraining or facilitating strategies, prior modes of awareness), following (aggravated or reduced problems, constrained or facilitated strategies, subsequent modes of awareness);\n3) cross-reference links, mainly between entries in the \"Problems\", \"Strategies\", \"Values\", and \"Development\" databases;\n4) links to entries in other UIA databases, mainly the \"International Organizations\" database;\n5) reference links to entries in the \"Bibliography (issues)\" database;\n6) links to relevant websites.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\" contains nearly 500 pages of introductory notes and commentaries. Some of them just provide readers with usual information about the work content and its organization. Most of them, however, represent extensive reports on the exploratory work done by the editors in eight projects (also called research areas, or sections). Here are those projects, with illustrative examples of key ideas figuring in the notes and commentaries.\n\nA first objective of the editors in that project is to collect and present information on the following topics: the problems with which humanity perceives itself to be faced; the organizational, human, and intellectual resources it believes it has at its disposal; the values by which it is believed any change should be guided; the concepts of human development considered to be either the means or the end of any such social transformation. A second objective is to clarify the conceptual challenge of interrelating such plentiful and disparate or even contradictory information. A third objective is to enable alternation between viewpoints from different cultures, ideologies, beliefs and even \"facts\", as a way for individuals and societies to become empowered with an appropriate response to the problematic conditions of the moment.\n\nIt is the disagreement amongst the advocates of different approaches to problems or solutions which hinders the formation of any consensual strategy and the mobilization of adequate resources. That is why the \"Encyclopedia\" uses an approach that is as general and minimally structured as is feasible without losing coherence and utility. The intent is first to contribute to clarify the nature, extent, and interrelationships of problems and solutions. Even the distinction between problems and solutions is not always clear. For instance, housing an increasing number of people is a solution that may aggravate the problem of urban overcrowding, and the death of individuals is a problem that contributes to the solution of reducing ecological impact of overpopulation.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" databases are much about how problems, strategies, values, development concepts, and organizations are linked together. As a result, the possibility of focusing on feedback loops has proven to be an important feature of the \"Encyclopedia\", and a program has been carried out to identify \"vicious problem loops\". A vicious problem loop is a chain of problems, each aggravating the next, and with the last looping back to aggravate the first in the chain. Here is an example: Man-made disasters, Vulnerability of ecosystem niches, Natural environment degradation, Shortage of natural resources, Unbridled competition for scarce resources, Man-made disasters. Solutions that focus on only one problem in a chain may fail or even be harmful, because the cycle has the capacity to regenerate itself, and also because several cycles may interlock, forming tangled skeins of interlinked global problems. The loop detection program detected more than 50,000 loops (of up to 9 elements) in more than 12,000 problem profiles. It is thought that a similar work could be done about mutually facilitating or constraining strategy loops, so as to constitute a dynamic response to aggravating or reducing loops of problems through a circle of matching strategies.\n\nThat project endeavors to present all the phenomena in society that are perceived negatively by groups transcending national frontiers. Those phenomena constitute a challenge to creative remedial action. Groups are strongly motivated by the problems that infringe their values and arouse their indignation. As such, problems are a major stimulus driving the development of society. Although there is agreement that problems are numerous and that many are really serious, little effort has been made to determine how many problems there are. Likewise, while it is becoming increasingly evident that problems interact with one another, and constitute complex networks or systems, little effort has been made to map that complexity. The perceptions documented in that project raise useful questions concerning the nature and existence of problems, especially when other groups consider that one perception or another is irrelevant, misleading or misinformed. An aim of that research area, then, is to assemble information whose significance is collectively repressed, displaced onto some less threatening problems, or projected in the form of blame onto some other social group.\n\nViews concerning problems are extremely varied. Several pages in the notes and commentaries deal with that variety. Problems are agenda items for assemblies or conferences; action targets for organizations; issues for political parties or governments; events or topics for the media; markets for businesses; sins for religions; puzzles for sciences. Problems can be viewed as synonymous with chaos and disorder, or as elements in an ordered array; as static or dynamic entities; as discrete or continuous phenomena; as objective things or subjective experiences; as directly experienceable phenomena or as indirect implications of seemingly innocent phenomena; as inherently comprehensible or incomprehensible entities; as the results of due processes or as spontaneous phenomena. For many people in the West problems may be considered as artifacts of concerned minds, about which reason, principles, or history are relevant, while in the East to conceive of life as presenting problems to be solved may be seen as a misconception of life. Other pages of notes and commentaries deal extensively with the variety of points of view under headings such as \"Approaches to problems\", \"Beyond the problem-lobby mindset\", or \"Problem perception and levels of awareness\".\n\nThat project aims at identifying the complete range of strategies perceived by constituencies acting at the international level.\n\nThe conventional way of addressing any problem situation is to elaborate a strategy, but given the number, variety and interrelationships of the problems, it is uncertain whether any conventional strategy could be adequate. In general, many groups have \"answers\" to the current crisis. The proponents of each such answer naturally attach special importance to their own as being of crucial relevance at this time, or even as being the only appropriate basis for a viable world society in the future. However, that focus on \"answer production\", a vital moving force in society, obscures the manner in which such answers, in the absence of integration between them, undermine each other’s significance.\n\nIt appears to the editors that the elements of the strategic challenge at this time include:\nThe strategic problem therefore is how to ensure that the appropriate organizational resources emerge, and are supported with appropriate conceptual tools, in response to emerging problem complexes. But it would seem that this must be achieved without organizing such response – for to the extent that any part of the network is organized, other parts will develop (and probably should develop) which favor alternative approaches. The challenge is therefore to clarify the conditions of a network strategy, i.e. an approach which facilitates or catalyses (rather than organizes) the development of organizational networks in response to problem networks, in the light of values perceived in various parts of the social system.\n\nMany pages of notes and commentaries describe in details various approaches to global strategies, and their limits. Such are \"Strategic ecosystem: beyond \"The Plan\"\", \"Governance\" (a series of pages on reports from the Club of Rome, the Commission on Global Governance, and four others groups), \"Strategic denial: action inhibition\", \"Post-crisis opportunities: range of strategies\", and \"Post-crisis opportunities: strategies in chaos\". A long series of pages explores how to \"move beyond the unimodal answer and recognize that because each form of action has both strengths and weaknesses, the key to a more effectively multimodal answer lies in finding how to interrelate the various unimodal answers so that they correct for each others weaknesses and counteract each others excesses.” But, it must also be asked, is integrated action of any type feasible at this time? The exploration begins with \"Strategic appropriateness: questionable answers\", and finishes with \"Action implications: consensus, uncertainty and action formulation\". Conditions for progress in strategy-making are more explicitly brought up in pages such as \"Strategic ecosystem: integrating constraint and opposition\", and \"Post-crisis opportunities: in quest of radical coherence\".\n\nThat project aims at registering a complete range of values with which people identify, to which they are attracted or which they reject as abhorrent. The notion of wisdom is explored as a way, an art, of dealing with value dilemmas. For instance, \"Complexity: understanding value systems\" is a text that looks at values through a positive interpretation, a negative interpretation, a paradoxical negative interpretation of the positive, and a paradoxical positive interpretation of the negative. Another text, \"Insights: wisdom and requisite variety\", gives a list of several sources of wisdom which, in interrelation, may be required in a value system to ensure the long-term viability of a complex society.\n\nThe purpose of that project is to provide profiles of human development approaches and modes of awareness, and their relationships, as perceived by different beliefs systems, disciplines, religions, and cultures. Much of the material in this section is about the limitations of language in expressing levels of significance beyond that which can be effectively captured by words, so that, seemingly, what we need to understand may only be expressible in a \"language\" that we do not know! That paradox is explored in a page entitled \"Language and the reconstruction of reality\". Other challenges relative to human potential and development are explored in pages such as \"Phases of human development through challenging problems\", or \"Barriers to transcendent insight and social transformation\".\n\nThe purpose of that project is to review the range of communication possibilities of metaphor, pattern and symbol. New conceptual tools are required to configure very large quantities of information into patterns that are both memorable and meaningful, and metaphor is often the only means to deal comprehensibly with complexity. Moreover, exploring “new ways of thinking” in the light of enhanced mental imagery (or mental model) appears indispensable inasmuch as furthering “mobilization of public opinion” and the “political will to change” is dependent upon insights that are too complex to be easily communicable. For instance, limitations of dualistic thinking are well-known and holistic approaches may represent more desirable alternatives, but how is it possible to implement such alternatives? The page \"Challenge: transcending the \"switch\" metaphor\" deals with that question.\n\nThe purpose of that project is to assemble descriptions of the range of conceptual approaches which are considered integrative and which are held by some international constituencies to provide a key for strategic response to the global problematique. Buzzwords like \"global\", \"networking\" and \"systematic\" are often used as magical \"words-of-power\". Nevertheless, in a society characterized by specialization, fragmentation, disparateness, or opposition, integrative approaches until now have proved inadequate or too difficult to implement. In order to go beyond that difficulty, it seems necessary to creatively introduce novelties, such as a science or art of disagreement that could clarify how to \"disagree intelligently\" rather than do so in a mindless manner requiring some form of violent or repressive reaction to eliminate the disagreement as soon as possible. There is a wide variety of initiatives pertaining to integrative knowledge and transdisciplinarity, and a page like \"Significance: previous, parallel or related initiatives\" presents several of them. With regard to interdisciplinary relationships between organizations, problems, strategies, values and human development, there is the \"Integrative Matrix of Human Preoccupations\" which has been developed by the editors and which allows to deal with all those elements in an exploratory fashion.\n\nThe purpose of that project is to provide a context for the presentation of new approaches to the challenges highlighted in the other projects. The emphasis is on configuring information in new ways, through a variety of accessible techniques, so as to allow easier navigation through complexity, and so as to evoke imaginative insights in response to such complexity. The \"Overview\" page presents about forty of those approaches or techniques, including interactive database use, q-analysis, information visualization, confidence artistry, tensegrity organization, I Ching, transformative conferencing, or marriage between poetry and policy-making.\n\nThe project was originally conceived in 1972 by James Wellesley-Wesley, who provided financial support through the foundation Mankind 2000, and Anthony Judge, by whom the work was orchestrated.\n\nWork on the first edition started with funds from Mankind 2000, matching those of the UIA. The publisher Klaus Saur, of Munich, provided funds, in conjunction with those from the UIA, for work on the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th editions. Seed funding for the third volume of the 4th edition was also provided on behalf of Mankind 2000. In the nineties, seed funding was provided, again on behalf of Mankind 2000, for computer equipment which subsequently allowed the UIA to develop a large website and make progressively available for free the \"Encyclopedia\" databases as from the 1994–1995 edition. In turn, this proven knowledge management capacity enabled the UIA, on the initiative of Nadia McLaren, a consultant ecologist who has been a primary editor for the \"Encyclopedia\", to successfully instigate two multi-partner projects funded by the European Union, with matching funds from the UIA. The work done through those two projects, \"Ecolynx: Information Context for Biodiversity Conservation\" (mainly) and \"Interactive Health Ecology Access Links\", eventually resulted in what amounted to a fifth, web-based, edition of the \"Encyclopedia\" in 2000. In their own ways, two other persons in particular effectively supported the project over the years: Robert Jungk of Mankind 2000, and Christian de Laet of the UIA.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" was the fruit of a continuing processing of documents gathered from many of the thousands of the international organizations profiled in the \"Yearbook of International Organizations\". Many such bodies regularly produce a wide range of material on the areas of their concern, many regularly send documents to the UIA, and many, when requested more specifically, supplied documents for the \"Encyclopedia\". The following organizations provided documents in the greatest quantity: FAO, ILO, UNICEF, UNESCO, UNCTD, WHO, Commonwealth Secretariat, Council of Europe, OECD, World Bank group. Furthermore, the United Nations Library in Geneva facilitated access to other material over two decades. The Institute of Cultural Affairs International was contractually associated at one point to the edition and other aspects of the \"Encyclopedia\" project. The \"Goals, Processes and Indicators of Development\" project (led by Johan Galtung) of the United Nations University, in which Anthony Judge participated on behalf of the UIA between 1978 and 1982, was an experience of learning and research that had a significant impact on the editorial content of the \"Encyclopedia\". Another noticeable influence came from futures studies, with which Judge has long been associated. He reports in \"Encyclopedia Illusions\" how the narrow focus of the Club of Rome on a few socio-economic aspects of futures research prompted the much vaster exploration concerning world problems and human potential.\n\nAnthony Judge was the architect and managing editor of the \"Encyclopedia\". He was also the main author of the notes and commentaries. The principal editors over the years have been, for different editions, Jon Jenkins and Maureen Jenkins (who had also worked at the Institute of Cultural Affairs), Owen Victor, Jacqueline Nebel, Nadia McLaren, and Tomáš Fülöpp. There were also enthusiastic editorial contributions from volunteers. All people related to the UIA who worked directly on one or more of the five \"Encyclopedia\" editions figure on a list that can be found online under the heading \"Associates of the Union of Intelligible Associations\". This is because in 2005, following disagreement over the partnership contract, Anthony Judge, as Executive Secretary of Mankind 2000, reframed the \"Encyclopedia\" as having been a strategic initiative of the Union of Intelligible Associations.\nTomáš Fülöpp continued maintaining and improving \"Encyclopedia\" databases at the UIA until January 2012.\n\n\nThere has been several reviews of the \"Encyclopedia\". One of the harshest criticisms came from the American Library Association in 1987: \"The board considers the \"Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\" a problematic monument to idiosyncrasy, confusion, and obfuscation that certainly is not worth purchasing at any price.\" Similarly, The Guardian was extremely critical in a review article published in 1992, to which Anthony Judge recently responded via Transcend Media Service on the occasion of the publication in The Wall Street Journal of a page-one sympathetic review of the \"Encyclopedia\" initiative, in December 2012. The work itself is keen on presenting, in various places, disclaimers, reservations or warning texts that anticipate criticisms and explain the strengths and weaknesses of its approaches, including the failure to advocate a position, or the sometimes excessive complexity in its methods or language. Most reviews are laudatory, however. Richard Slaughter emphasized that the significance of the work is not its size or the scope of its references, impressive though these are. It is rather in the nature of what has been attempted. The accompanying notes and commentaries, he said, are good enough to be published separately because they contain highly cogent observations on the \"global problematique\", commentaries on the work of numerous great thinkers from a wide variety of fields, and an impressive array of insights about the epistemology, symbolism, metaphysics, metaphors and linguistic representations of the subject. As far as practice is concerned, the highest commendation perhaps is to be found in the words of Elise Boulding: \"Any one of us (...) can actively become a part in the world problem solving process by using this encyclopedia.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36574779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36574779", "title": "Federal Institute of Metrology", "text": "Federal Institute of Metrology\n\nThe Federal Institute of Metrology (METAS) is the Swiss national metrology organization. It is part of the Federal Department of Justice and Police.\n"}
{"id": "88548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88548", "title": "Foreign policy doctrine", "text": "Foreign policy doctrine\n\nA foreign policy doctrine is a general statement of foreign policy and belief system through a doctrine. In some cases, the statement is made by a political leader, typically a nation’s chief executive or chief diplomat, and comes to be named after that leader. Richard Nixon’s justification for the phased withdrawal of the United States from the Vietnam War, for example, came to be called the Nixon Doctrine. This pattern of naming is not universal, however; Chinese doctrines, for example, are often referred to by number.\n\nThe purpose of a foreign policy doctrine is to provide general rules for the conduct of foreign policy through decisions on international relations. These rules allow the political leadership of a nation to deal with a situation and to explain the actions of a nation to other nations. “Doctrine” is usually not meant to have any negative connotations; it is especially not to be confused with “dogma.”\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "449582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449582", "title": "Freedom Front Plus", "text": "Freedom Front Plus\n\nThe Freedom Front Plus (FF+; , \"VF+\") is a national South African political party that was formed (as the Freedom Front) in 1994. It is led by . \n\nIts mission as on 17 May 2018 read: \"The FF+ is irrevocably committed to the realisation of communities', in particular the Afrikaner's, internationally recognised right to self-determination, territorial(Volkstaat) or otherwise; the maintenance, protection and promotion of their rights and interests, as well as the promotion of the right of self-determination of any other community, bound by a common language and cultural heritage in South Africa.\n\nIts stated policy positions include a commitment to self determination in terms of Article 235 of the South African Constitution, amending affirmative action and land reform to protect the interests of Afrikaners and protecting the rights of minorities in an open democracy.\n\nAlong with other smaller parties, the FF+ has entered into coalition with the larger Democratic Alliance (DA) after the 2016 municipal elections to govern Johannesburg, Tshwane and several other municipalities.\n\nThe Freedom Front was founded on 1 March 1994 by members of the Afrikaner community under Constand Viljoen, after he had left the Afrikaner Volksfront amidst disagreements. Seeking to achieve his goals through political means, Viljoen registered the Freedom Front with the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) on 4 March 1994 to take part in the April 1994 general elections. (This date has also been given as 7 March.) On 12 March 1994 Viljoen handed in a list of candidates for the FF to the IEC, confirming that his party would take part in the elections. Viljoen considered the election as a chance for an unofficial referendum, and urged Afrikaners to vote for the Freedom Front in their numbers to show support for the idea of a \"volkstaat\", a separate nation for Afrikaners away from the rest of South Africa.\n\nIn the election, under the leadership of General Viljoen, the Freedom Front received 2.2% of the national vote (with 424,555 votes cast), earning nine seats in the National Assembly, and 3.3% (with 639,643 votes cast) of the combined vote to the nine provincial legislatures. This suggested that many Afrikaners had split their vote. The party performed the best in the rural areas of the former Transvaal and Orange Free State, and was noted by the new deputy president Thabo Mbeki as representing possibly as much as half the Afrikaner voting population in these areas, with the strongest support among farmers and the working class.\n\nFreedom Front support would gradually melt away in the coming years, as the party was strung along in ultimately fruitless negotiations with the African National Congress (ANC) to create a volkstaat, making the party lose its importance. It would also receive increased competition from new parties such as the Afrikaner Eenheidsbeweging. In the 1999 election their support dropped to 0.8% (127,217 votes cast) with three seats in the National Assembly and between 1-2% in their stronghold provinces. This represented a respectable portion of the Afrikaner vote, but nowhere near earlier levels. The party's support has remained relatively stable in all national elections held since.\n\nIn 2001, Viljoen handed over the leadership of the Freedom Front to Pieter Mulder.\n\nIn 2003, shortly before the 2004 general election, the Conservative Party, the Afrikaner Eenheidsbeweging and the Freedom Front decided to contest the election as a single entity under the name Freedom Front Plus (FF+), led by Mulder. Later, also the Federal Alliance joined the VF+/FF+.\n\nIn the 2004 general election, support for the Freedom Front Plus rose slightly to 0.89% (139,465 votes cast). The party won one seat in most of the provincial legislatures, and four seats in the National Assembly.\n\nIn the 2006 municipal elections, the Freedom Front Plus received 1% of the popular vote (252,253 votes cast).\n\nIn the 2009 general election, the party received 0.83% (146,796 votes cast) and retained its four seats in the National Assembly but lost its seats in the provincial legislatures of North West, Mpumalanga and Northern Cape. After the elections, the Freedom Front's leader Pieter Mulder was appointed as Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries by the new President Jacob Zuma.\n\nIn the 2014 general election, the FF+ increased its vote slightly to 0.9%. It retained its 4 MPs, and also regained a seat in the North West.\n\nThe party has enjoyed consistent landslide victories in the Afrikaner enclave Orania.\n\nThese charts show the electoral performance for the Freedom Front Plus since the advent of democracy in 1994:\n\n! Election\n! Total votes\n! Share of vote\n! Seats \n! Government\n! 1994\n! 1999\n! 2004\n! 2009\n! 2014\n! 2019\n\n! rowspan=2 | Election\n! colspan=2 | Eastern Cape\n! colspan=2 | Free State\n! colspan=2 | Gauteng\n! colspan=2 | Kwazulu-Natal\n! colspan=2 | Limpopo\n! colspan=2 | Mpumalanga\n! colspan=2 | North-West\n! colspan=2 | Northern Cape\n! colspan=2 | Western Cape\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! 1994\n! 1999\n! 2004\n! 2009\n! 2014\n\n! Election\n! Ward + PR votes\n! Share of vote\n! 1995-96\n! 2000\n! 2006\n! 2011\n! 2016\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24463909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24463909", "title": "Grand National Consolidated Trades Union", "text": "Grand National Consolidated Trades Union\n\nThe \"Grand National Consolidated Trades Union\" of 1834 was an early attempt to form a national union confederation in the United Kingdom.\n\nThere had been several attempts to form national general unions in the 1820s, culminating with the National Association for the Protection of Labour, established in 1830. However, this had soon failed, and by the early 1830s the most influential labour organization was the Operative Builders' Union.\n\nIn 1833, Robert Owen returned from the United States, and declared the need for a guild-based system of co-operative production. He was able to gain the support of the Builders' Union, which called for a Grand National Guild to take over the entire building trade. In February 1834, a conference was held in London which founded the Grand National Consolidated Trades Union.\n\nThe new body, unlike other organisations founded by Owen, was open only to trade unionists and, as a result, initially Owen did not join it. Its foundation coincided with a period of industrial unrest, and strikes broke out in Derby, Leeds and Oldham. These were discouraged by the new union, which unsuccessfully tried to persuade workers to adopt co-operative solutions. Six labourers in Tolpuddle, Dorset, attempted to found a friendly society and to seek to affiliate with the Grand National. This was discovered, and in 1834 they were convicted of swearing unlawful oaths, and they were sentenced to transportation for seven years. They became known as the Tolpuddle Martyrs and there was a large and successful campaign led by William Lovett to reduce their sentence. They were issued with a free pardon in March 1836.\n\nThe organisation was riven by disagreement over the approach to take, given that many strikes had been lost, the Tolpuddle case had discouraged workers from joining unions, and several new unions had collapsed. The initial reaction was to rename itself the British and Foreign Consolidated Association of Industry, Humanity and Knowledge, focus increasingly on common interests of workers and employers, and attempt to regain prestige by appointing Owen as Grand Master. The organisation began to break up in the summer of 1834 and by November, it had ceased to function: Owen called a congress in London which reconstituted it as the Friendly Association of the Unionists of All Classes of All Nations with himself as Grand Master, but it was defunct by the end of 1834. Meanwhile, the Builders' Union broke up into smaller trade-based unions.\n\nOwen persevered, holding a congress on 1 May 1835 to constitute a new Association of All Classes of All Nations, with himself as Preliminary Father. This was essentially a propaganda organisation, with little popular support, which attempted to gain the ear of influential individuals to propose a more rational society. In 1837, it registered as a friendly society, but was initially overshadowed by Owen's similar National Community Friendly Society. In 1838, it was able to expand significantly by sending out \"social missionaries\", setting up fifty branches, most in Cheshire, Lancashire and Yorkshire. In 1839, the National Community and the Association of All Classes merged to form the Universal Community Society of Rational Religionists.\n\nDespite its name, the Grand National was never able to gain significant support outside London and, as a result, Lovett's London Working Men's Association was its most important successor. The next attempt to form a national union confederation was the National Association of United Trades for the Protection of Labour.\n\n"}
{"id": "26289864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26289864", "title": "Guerrillero Heroico", "text": "Guerrillero Heroico\n\nGuerrillero Heroico () is an iconic photograph of Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara taken by Alberto Korda. It was captured on March 5, 1960, in Havana, Cuba, at a memorial service for victims of the \"La Coubre\" explosion. By the end of the 1960s, the image, in conjunction with Guevara's subsequent actions and eventual execution, helped solidify the charismatic and controversial leader as a cultural icon. Korda has said that at the moment he shot the picture, he was drawn to Guevara's facial expression, which showed \"absolute implacability\" as well as anger and pain. Years later, Korda would say that the photograph showed Che's firm and stoic character. Guevara was 31 years old at the time the photograph was taken.\n\nEmphasizing the image's ubiquitous nature and wide appeal, the Maryland Institute College of Art called the picture a symbol of the 20th century and the world's most famous photograph. Versions of it have been painted, printed, digitized, embroidered, tattooed, silk-screened, sculpted or sketched on nearly every surface imaginable, leading the Victoria and Albert Museum to say that the photograph has been reproduced more than any other image in photography. Jonathan Green, director of the UCR/California Museum of Photography, has speculated that \"Korda's image has worked its way into languages around the world. It has become an alpha-numeric symbol, a hieroglyph, an instant symbol. It mysteriously reappears whenever there's a conflict. There isn’t anything else in history that serves in this way\".\n\nThe history and contemporary global impact of the image is the basis for the 2008 documentary \"Chevolution\", directed by Trisha Ziff, along with the 2009 book \"Che's Afterlife: The Legacy of an Image\" by Michael Casey.\n\nOn March 4, 1960, the French freighter \"La Coubre\" suspiciously exploded in Havana Harbor, killing up to 100 people and injuring several hundred more. Upon hearing the blast, Guevara rushed to the harbor to board the burning ship, angrily forcing his way past those concerned for his safety following a secondary explosion.\n\nThe following day on March 5, President Fidel Castro blamed the U.S. CIA and called for a memorial service and mass demonstration at Havana's Colón Cemetery, to honor the victims. At the time, Guevara was Minister of Industry in the new government, and Korda was Castro's official photographer. After a funeral march along the seafront boulevard known as Malecón, Fidel Castro gave a eulogy for the fallen at a stage on 23rd street. Castro gave a fiery speech, using the words \"Patria o Muerte\" (\"Homeland or Death\") for the first time. Meanwhile, at 11:20 am, Guevara came into view for a few seconds. Korda snapped just two frames of him from a distance of about before he disappeared from sight. Korda immediately realised his photograph had the attributes of a portrait. Later, Korda said of this photograph, \"I remember it as if it were today … seeing him framed in the viewfinder, with that expression. I am still startled by the impact … it shakes me so powerfully\".\n\nDuring the rally, Korda took pictures of Cuban dignitaries and famous French existentialist philosophers Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir, both admirers of Guevara at the time. Included in the film roll were shots of all the speakers and two pictures of Che's brief appearance. The classic picture appears on frame number 40 shot horizontally.\n\nThe first photograph had Guevara framed alone between the silhouette of Jorge Masetti and a palm tree; the second with someone's head appearing above his shoulder. The first picture, with the intruding material cropped out and the image rotated slightly, became Guevara's most famous portrait. The editor of \"Revolución\" where Korda worked, decided to use only his shots of Castro, Sartre, and Beauvoir, while sending the Che shot back to Korda. Believing the image was powerful, Korda made a cropped version for himself, which he enlarged and hung on his wall next to a portrait of the Chilean poet Pablo Neruda, and also gave copies to some others as a gift. It was not until 1986 that José Figueroa, an established photographer in his own right who printed for Korda and was his unofficially \"adopted\" son, suggested they try printing the full frame version of the portrait. Korda continued to print both versions of the image up until his death.\n\nTo take the photograph, Korda used a Leica M2 with a 90 mm lens, loaded with Kodak Plus-X pan film. In speaking about the method, Korda remarked that \"this photograph is not the product of knowledge or technique. It was really coincidence, pure luck.\"\n\nAs a lifelong communist and supporter of the Cuban Revolution until his death, Alberto Korda claimed no payment for his picture. A modified version of the portrait through the decades was also reproduced on a range of different media, though Korda never asked for royalties. Korda reasoned that Che's image represented his revolutionary ideals, and thus the more his picture spread the greater the chance Che's ideals would spread as well. Korda's refusal to seek royalties for the vast circulation of his photograph \"helped it become the ultimate symbol of Marxist revolution and anti-imperialist struggle.\"\n\nHowever, Korda did not want commercialization of the image in relation to products he believed Guevara would not support, especially alcohol. This belief was displayed for the first time in 2000, when in response to Smirnoff using Che's picture in a vodka commercial, Korda claimed his moral rights (a form of copyright law) and sued advertising agency Lowe Lintas and Rex Features, the company that supplied the photograph. Lintas and Rex claimed that the image was in the public domain. The final result was an out of court settlement for USD $50,000 to Korda, which he donated to the Cuban healthcare system, stating \"if Che was still alive, he would have done the same.\"\n\nAfter the settlement, Korda reiterated that he was not against its propagation altogether, telling reporters:\n\nPassed out to the occasional friend and published in a few small Cuban publications, Che's image remained relatively unknown for 7 years. A print was sold or given to wealthy Italian publisher and intellectual Giangiacomo Feltrinelli in 1967. Feltrinelli had just returned from Bolivia where he had hoped his fame would help in negotiating the release of French journalist and professor Régis Debray. Debray had been arrested in Bolivia in connection with guerrilla operations led by Che Guevara. As Guevara's eventual capture or death appeared to be imminent with the CIA closing in on his whereabouts, Feltrinelli acquired the rights to publish Che's captured Bolivian Diary. At this time Feltrinelli asked Cuban officials where to obtain Guevara images and was directed to Korda's studio where he presented a letter of introduction from the government. The document asked for Korda's assistance in finding a good portrait of Che. Korda knew right away that his favorite image of Che was perfect and pointed to the 1960 shot of Che hanging on the wall, saying that the photograph was the best of those he had taken of Che. Feltrinelli agreed and ordered 2 prints. When he returned the next day to pick them up Korda told him that because he was a friend of the revolution he did not have to pay.\n\nUpon his return to Italy, Feltrinelli disseminated thousands of copies of the poster to raise awareness of Che's precarious situation and impending demise. Later in 1967 after his October 9, 1967 execution, Che's \"Bolivian Diary\" with Korda's photograph on the cover was released worldwide. Feltrinelli also created posters to promote the book, crediting the copyright to (c) Libreria Feltrinelli 1967 (in the lower left hand corner of the image) with no mention of Korda. By this time, Korda's image had officially entered the public consciousness. Alberto Korda later expounded that if Feltrinelli had paid him just one lira for each reproduction, that he would have received millions. However, Korda also expressed that he forgave him, because through his actions, the image became famous.\n\nFeltrinelli's version of the image was used in October 1967 in Milan, Italy, when spontaneous protests occurred in response to the news of Che's death. Italian photographer Giorgio Mondolfo later stated that \"the first time I saw the picture by Alberto Korda, I was not even slightly interested in the author. I was only fifteen, and it was the picture that had drawn us – many for the first time – to gather in the streets, crying \"Che lives!\"\"\n\n\"Guerrillero Heroico\" also appeared in the August 1967 issue of \"Paris Match\". Published only a few months before his eventual capture and execution, the issue featured a major article titled \"Les Guerrilleros\" by journalist Jean Lartéguy. Lartéguy wrote \"At a time when Cuban revolutionaries want to create Vietnams all over the world, the Americans run the risk of finding their own Algeria in Latin America.\" The article ended by asking \"Where is Che Guevara?\" The caption of the photograph read \"The official photograph of Che Guevara; on his beret the star, the symbol of the Comandante.\" It is not known who provided the magazine with the image, and it was also not credited to Feltrinelli. However, with its wide circulation throughout Europe, and its status as an influential news journal, \"Paris Match\" could also be viewed as one of the original purveyors of the image.\n\nDuring the May 1968 Paris student riots, which eventually shook the de Gaulle government (but did not overthrow it), organizer \"Danny The Red\" utilized Fitzpatrick's rendition of Che during the protests. At this time, Che's image was picked up by the Dutch anarchist group \"The Provos\" in Amsterdam, who focused on triggering violent responses from authorities through non-violent means.\n\nIn 1967, Irish artist Jim Fitzpatrick was also using Korda's image as a basis for creating his own stylized posters. Fitzpatrick claims he received a copy of the photograph from the Dutch anarchist group \"the Provos\", who produced a magazine bearing the group's name. Fitzpatrick remembers that Provo magazine claimed the image originally came to Europe via Jean-Paul Sartre. Fitzpatrick's source of the image, then, would not have been Feltrinelli.\n\nTo create the image Fitzpatrick made a paper negative on a piece of equipment called a grant. They were then printed in one color black and one color red, and he handpainted the star in yellow. Fitzpatrick \"wanted the image to breed like rabbits\" and hand printed thousands of images to give away to anyone for free in London, in addition to getting friends to pass them out while encouraging others to make their own versions. He printed about a hundred copies at a time to fulfill the demand of political groups in Ireland, France, and the Netherlands who began requesting the image. A batch was also sent to Spain, where they were seized by Franco's police.\n\nBecause of the high demand, Fitzpatrick formed a poster company called \"Two Bear Feet\" and produced a variety of posters in 1967 using the Korda image. All of them were created without copyright, because Fitzpatrick wanted them to be reproduced. One of these posters would be published in the satirical magazine \"Private Eye\". The best-known was printed on silver foil and was exhibited in an exhibition in London called \"Viva Che\" at the Arts Laboratory, curated by Peter Meyer. This show was originally to be held at the Lisson Gallery in 1968 and illustrates how fast the image moved from protest into the realm of fine art.\n\nBecause of Fitzpatrick's desire for the photograph to reflect something of himself, he raised Che's eyes more and added his initial, a reversed \"F\" on the shoulder. It was not until the 40th anniversary of Che's death that Fitzpatrick admitted to this fact stating \"I’m a bit mischievous, so I never told anyone.\" At this time Fitzpatrick said that \"I love the picture and wherever I am in the world, if I see it, I take a photo of it. I always have a chuckle when I see that little 'F'. I know that it's mine.\" In November 2008, Fitzpatrick announced that he would be signing over the copyright of his Che image to the William Soler Pediatric Cardiology Hospital in Havana, Cuba. In announcing his reason for ensuring all future proceeds would go to the children's hospital, Fitzpatrick stated that \"Cuba trains doctors and then sends them around the world … I want their medical system to benefit.\" Additionally, Fitzpatrick publicized his desire to gift the original artwork to the archive run by Guevara's widow, Aleida March.\n\nAccording to Fitzpatrick, in 1963 while a teenage student at Gormanston College he worked a summer job at the Marine Hotel pub in Kilkee, the remote town of his mother's birth. One morning Che Guevara walked in with two Cubans and ordered an Irish whiskey. Fitzpatrick immediately recognized him because of his interest in the Cuban Revolution. Knowing about the Irish diaspora and history in Argentina, Fitzpatrick asked Che vaguely about his roots. Che told Fitzpatrick that his grandmother was Irish and that his great-grandmother, Isabel, was from Galway, with other family being from Cork.\n\nGuevara's father also bore the Irish surname \"Lynch.\" Fitzpatrick describes Che as \"curious\" about Ireland \"from a revolutionary point of view\" and remarks that Che proclaimed his \"great admiration\" for the fact that, in his view, Ireland was the first country to \"shake off the shackles of the British Empire\". Apparently Che was stranded on an overnight flight from Moscow to Cuba, and had touched down at Shannon Airport, where the Soviet airline \"Aeroflot\" had a refueling base. Unable to depart because of thick fog, Che and his accompanying Cubans took the day off for an \"unofficial\" visit. It was this experience, according to Fitzpatrick, that gave him the impetus to follow the future actions of Che, including his ill-fated mission to Bolivia.\n\nIn December 2008, Jim Fitzpatrick, along with local historian Anne Holliday and the Shannon Development, announced plans to commemorate Guevara's visit to Ireland, and specifically his time spent in Limerick. Early plans are focused on an exhibition of Guevara's visit at the City Museum, followed by the creation of a \"permanent mark\" symbolizing his time spent at Hanratty Hotel's – White House pub in Shannonside. Fitzpatrick defended the move by remarking \"we want to commemorate the fact Che Guevara spent some very important hours of his life here … this probably was Che's last hurrah.\"\n\nSinn Féin president Gerry Adams is interviewed in the 2008 documentary \"Chevolution\" about the famous photograph. As he speaks, the film shows a montage of Che murals in Belfast, with Adams remarking \"I suppose people from my background were drawn to that image, because of what Che Guevara represented.\"\n\nCuban historian Edmundo Desnoes has stated that \"Che's image may be cast aside, bought and sold and deified, but it will form a part of the universal system of the revolutionary struggle, and can recover its original meaning at any moment.\" That meaning's origin harkens back to when Korda's photograph was first published on April 16, 1961, in the daily Cuban newspaper \"Revolución\", advertising a noon conference during which the main speaker was \"Dr. Ernesto 'Che' Guevara.\" The conference was disrupted however, when 1,300 CIA-supported counter-revolutionaries stormed the beaches of Cuba, in what became known as the failed Bay of Pigs invasion. The image was thus republished a second time advertising the newly convened conference on April 28, 1961. Because of this fact, it seems very likely that in the context of both of these publications, that Che could have seen the photograph that would later contribute to his iconic status.\n\nThe very first time Cubans on a large scale became familiar with the photograph, despite its earlier reproduction in \"Revolución\", was on hearing the news of Che's death. Upon the news of Che's execution, it was enlarged and draped on a banner down the five-story building of the Ministry of the Interior in the Plaza de la Revolución in Havana. This building where Che himself had formerly worked, served as a backdrop to Fidel's eulogy on October 18, 1967, publicly acknowledging the death of Che Guevara before a crowd of over a million mourners. José Gómez Fresquet, renowned Cuban poster maker and graphic artist, recalls how on hearing the news of Guevara's death, he immediately worked all night producing the poster to be used at the rally honoring him the next day. Korda had given Fresquet a copy of the portrait as a basis for the poster, which he created on red paper. This was the first privately produced \"Guerrillero Heroico\" to be created in Cuba. Since then the building has seen many versions of the image, and today a permanent steel outline, derived from the photograph, adorns the building.\n\n\"Guerrillero Heroico\" made its American debut in 1968 on New York City Subway billboards, when the image appeared in painted form by Paul Davis, for a poster advertising the February issue of Evergreen Review. Paul Davis has stated that he was \"inspired by Italian paintings of martyred saints and Christ\", in his romanticised version of Che.\n\nHowever, the fascination was not solely an American phenomenon. For instance, British journalist Richard Gott who met with Che Guevara several times expressed a similar view, by stating how he was \"struck by his magnetic physical attraction, comparable to the aura of a rock star.\" In Gott's opinion \"almost everyone had the same impression, and journalists were particularly susceptible.\" \"Time\" magazine, in an August 8, 1960, cover story after meeting with Guevara displayed this view, by remarking that Che wore \"a smile of melancholy sweetness that many women find devastating.\"\n\nArgentine journalist Julia Costenlos, recalls that in her view he was \"blessed with a unique appeal, an incalculable enchantment that came completely naturally.\" Indian Ambassador K Gajendra Singh, posted in 1965 as a young diplomat in Algiers, recalls his own similar personal encounter with meeting Guevara; describing him as \"indisputably the dazzling star of the show\" and compared shaking his hand at an economic seminar to \"getting an autograph of a celebrity.\" According to Singh, Che's \"charismatic presence in green olive fatigues and black beret\" at the time embodied \"the very best of the Hollywood and Bollywood stars all rolled into one\" Even under duress, \"The Times\" journalist Henry Brandon, who spoke with Guevara at the height of the Cuban missile crisis, remarked that Che possessed a \"genial charm\" that \"might have made Charles Boyer envious.\"\n\nIn judging the enduring appeal of the image, Darrel Couturier, representative for Korda since 1997, has opined that it was \"the image of a very dashing young man\" and that in the \"age of free love and flower power … the time was ripe for a figure\" or \"image that could represent this great diversity in thinking and behavior the world over.\" According to Couturier, this \"age of religious revolution\", matched with Guevara's premature death, \"elevated him to almost martyrdom.\"\n\nAs pop artists took to the image with glee, it evolved into a popular and heavily commercialized icon that often strayed far from Che’s hard-line Marxist message. British pop artist Sir Peter Blake has referred to \"Guerrillero Heroico\" as \"one of the great icons of the 20th century.\" When converted into a stark black cut-out, Korda's photograph became easy, cheap, and fast to copy using the favored material and method of the 1960s: lith film and screen painting. By the time of his death in 1967, Che was already \"a legend, the romantic epitome of worldwide rebellion\" and in the wake of his perceived martyrdom, Korda's photograph went viral. Rebellious young people found in it a \"sense of empowerment, a crystallization of the perennial idealism of youth.\"\nAccording to the V&A Museum, \"the photograph enshrines Che as a mythic hero. Taken from below, the revolutionary leader with searching eyes and resolute expression becomes larger than life. A perspective that dominates the imagery of social realism, it bears an irresistible aura of authority, independence and defiance.\" The V&A Museum goes on to state that Korda's famous photograph first deified Che and turned him into an icon of radical chic. Its story, a complex mesh of conflicting narratives, gave \"Guerrillero Heroico\" a life of its own, an enduring fascination independent of Che himself. The Italian magazine \"Skime\" evokes even more praise, decreeing it \"absolutely the most famous of history\" while proclaiming that it \"captures beauty and youth, courage and generosity, aesthetic and moral virtues of a person who possessed all the characteristics necessary to be converted into a symbol of an epoch like ours, lacking in historic legends and mythic incarnations.\" Journalist Richard Gott has also remarked that \"the red star in Che's beret was up there with 'Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds. Jonathan Green, director of the UCR photography museum, has remarked that \"pop art is a rejection of traditional figuration, rhetoric, and rendition. Its egalitarian anti-art stance was the perfect corollary for Che's anti-establishment attitude.\"\n\nFitzpatrick's graphic was later used in a 1968 painting attributed to Andy Warhol and sold to a gallery in Rome. The painting used the same graphic processes used on the acclaimed Marilyn Monroe pieces. However this painting was a forgery, created by Gerard Malanga who was in need of money. When Warhol heard of the fraud, he \"authenticated\" the fake, provided that all the money from sales went to him.\n\n\n\nThe Che image has been cited as an example of the merging of politics and marketing and the power that images hold over our society. Trisha Ziff, the curator of a 2004 touring exhibition on the iconography of Che has stated that \"Che Guevara has become a brand. And the brand's logo is the image, which represents change. It has become the icon of the outside thinker, at whatever level, whether it is anti-war, pro-green or anti-globalisation. Its presence, everywhere from Belfast to Soweto, or from walls in the Palestinian territories to Parisian boutiques, makes it an image that is out of control. It has become a corporation, an empire, at this point.\"\n\nAlberto Korda's photograph has received wide distribution and modification, appearing on countless numbers of T-shirts, posters, consumer products, protest banners, personal tattoos, and in many other formats. It has morphed into an iconic countercultural symbol for a new generation of youth. The image is now worn on the chests of a diverse group of individuals, from those who truly support the ideals that Che Guevara lived for, to those expressing a more generalized anti-authoritarian stance.\n\nJournalist Michael Casey, in his 2009 book \"Che's Afterlife: The Legacy of an Image\", notes how the universal image can be found \"in all corners of the world\" and theorizes that it arrived as a symbol of rebellion during an era when the world was aching for change. In defining Korda's photograph as a \"brand\" and \"quintessential post-modern icon\", Casey notes that somehow the photograph encapsulates \"hope and beauty,\" which causes people around the globe to \"invest their dreams in it.\" While David Kunzle, author of the book \"Che Guevara: Icon, Myth, and Message\", has opined that \"The beret functions subliminally as a flattened halo.\"\n\nTrisha Ziff, the curator of \"Che! Revolution and Commerce\" describes \"Guerrillero Heroico\" as a \"statuesque image taken from below,\" which \"derives from a visual language of mythologized heroes harking back to an era of socialist realism\" while referencing \"a classical Christ-like demeanor.\" Jon Lee Anderson, author of \"Che Guevara: A Revolutionary Life\", in the photograph Che appears \"as the ultimate revolutionary icon\" with \"his eyes staring boldly into the future\" and \"his expression a virile embodiment of outrage at social injustice.\"\n\nThe stylized image of Che Guevara, adapted from Korda's photograph, is commonly accompanied by several different symbols that add context to its inherent suggested meaning. The most common of these are the red star, hammer and sickle, Cuban flag, and the saying in Spanish \"Hasta la Victoria Siempre\" (Translation: \"Towards Victory, Always\"). The multi meaning phrase became the sign off for Che Guevara's numerous letters and speeches as a revolutionary, and represent the commitment to both never give up on the eventual triumph of a Marxist world revolution, and the belief that this victory once it occurs, will be eternal. As a result, \"Hasta la Victoria Siempre\" has become a de facto slogan or catchphrase, used as a motto by those who continue to support and/or admire Che Guevara's life and/or ideals.\n\nFor decades the famous image was unhindered by international copyright agreements, because Cuba was not a signatory to the Berne Convention. Fidel Castro described it as a \"bourgeois concept\" which meant that artists and advertisers were free to use Korda’s work as they pleased. Legally, Cuban Law no. 156 signed on September 28, 1994, to amend part of Law no. 14 of the 1977 Copyright Act (Article 47), states that pictures taken in Cuba fall into the public domain worldwide, 25 years after their first use. As for the United States, since the image was first published in Cuba without compliance with U.S. copyright formalities and used in Cuba before February 20, 1972 (more than 25 years before Cuba signed the Berne Convention in 1997) it is also generally, although not universally, considered to be in the public domain.\n\nDespite conflicting claims about whether or not the image could have copyright established, Korda's children have sought to control commercial use of the image from defamation. Korda's daughter Diana Diaz pursued a 2003 lawsuit in France against a Paris-based press rights group Reporters Without Borders, for using the Che photograph in a poster campaign decrying Cuba as \"the world's largest jail\", aimed at dissuading French tourists from vacationing in Cuba after the jailing of 29 dissident journalists. In suing the group for 1.14 million euros, Diaz's lawyer, Randy Yaloz remarked that \"we are going after everyone who betrays the moral rights of my client\". Moral rights are a separate component of copyright law that are not recognized in the U.S., but are recognized in some other countries, notably in France where Diaz filed the lawsuit. Moral rights aim to protect the integrity of a work from defamation, distortion, slander, or offensive mutilation, even if the originator no longer owns the copyright. However, Reporters Without Borders stopped using the image before any legal judgment was rendered.\n\nAriana Hernández-Reguant addressed the image's copyright status in 2004 in her article \"Copyrighting Che: Art and Authorship under Cuban Late Socialism\". She expressed a skeptical view towards Korda's heirs being able to establish ownership over the image, noting in reference to the lawsuits involving the image, \"There was never any official ruling on whether the depiction constituted a violation of copyright.\" The author goes on to state that: \"Korda took the picture while working for a state-run newspaper, his actual property rights would be questionable under both Cuban and international law.\"\n\nIn 2007, law student Sarah Levy also addressed the potential legal status of the image in Cuba. It was her ultimate contention that \"in Cuba the copyright protection in Korda's Guevara photograph would have already expired, and despite the claims of ownership from Korda's heirs, the State would now hold any rights associated with the photograph.\" In regards to the more commonly disseminated stylized version of the photograph, lawyers say it will be an uphill struggle to deter non-photographic use of such a widely reproduced image, other than in countries like Italy where laws protect image rights.\n\nGuevara's heirs also believe they have legal justification to prevent the image's \"exploitation\" or slander. Guevara's Cuban widow Aleida March stated in 2005 that \"We have a plan to deal with the misuse. We can't attack everyone with lances like Don Quixote, but we can try to maintain the ethics of Guevara's legacy.\" In reference to this pronouncement, Guevara's daughter Aleida Guevara told Reuters, \"It will be costly and difficult because each country has different laws, but a limit has to be drawn.\" However, the family has not yet mounted any court challenges, and no determination of legal copyright internationally has been established.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46425480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46425480", "title": "Guild of St Matthew", "text": "Guild of St Matthew\n\nThe Guild of St Matthew was an English high-church Christian socialist association led by Stewart Headlam from its establishment in Bethnal Green on 29 June 1877 to its dissolution in 1909. While the guild never had a membership of more than about 400 people, it was \"the pioneer Christian socialist society of the revival period in Britain\", breaking the ground for other Christian socialist organisations yet to come, such as the Christian Social Union. Kenneth Leech described it as \"the first explicitly socialist group in Britain\". For many years, it published the periodical \"The Church Reformer\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2565183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2565183", "title": "Hidden Ivies", "text": "Hidden Ivies\n\nHidden Ivies: Thirty Colleges of Excellence is a college educational guide published in 2000. It focuses on college admissions in the United States. The authors define both the title of this book as well as their goals in writing it as: \"to create greater awareness of the small, distinctive cluster of colleges and universities of excellence that are available to gifted college-bound students.\" In the introduction, the authors further explain their aim by referring specifically to \"the group historically known as the 'Little Ivies' (including Amherst, Bowdoin, Middlebury, Swarthmore, Wesleyan, and Williams)\" which the authors say have \"scaled the heights of prestige and selectivity and also turn away thousands of our best and brightest young men and women.\" The second edition includes the assessment of all the institutions considered \"Little Ivies\" except Connecticut College, which is referenced on three occasions in the book for its affiliation and student exchange program with other Little Ivies; the college is included in Appendix II as another college of excellence.\n\nIn this book, the authors (using the same criteria often used to evaluate Ivy League schools) discuss 30 American schools that are small in size and are either liberal arts colleges or universities that emulate them. \"The Hidden Ivies: 50 Top Colleges - From Amherst to Williams - That Rival the Ivy League\", the second edition of the guide published in 2009, evaluates 50 \"renowned academic institutions.\"\n\nNine of the 50 schools in the second edition are located in the Midwestern United States, 24 in the Northeastern United States, 11 in the Southern United States, and six in the Western United States.\n\n\"Hidden Ivies\" discusses the college admissions process and attempts to evaluate 63 colleges in comparison to Ivy League colleges. The schools are examined based on academics, admissions process, financial aid, and student experiences. The book argues the importance of a liberal arts education and goes on to inquire about the qualities of Ivy League schools in general, and how such qualities apply to higher education.\n\n"}
{"id": "32457238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32457238", "title": "Hugh Tomlinson", "text": "Hugh Tomlinson\n\nHugh Richard Edward Tomlinson QC (born January 1954 in Leeds) is an English barrister, a prominent English translator of the philosopher Gilles Deleuze and a founding member of Matrix Chambers. He is a noted specialist in media and information law including defamation, confidence, privacy and data protection. He played a central role in the litigation that sought the full disclosure of UK MP's parliamentary expenses and in the News of the World phone-hacking case. He is known for his privacy work for celebrities who have included Lily Allen, David and Victoria Beckham, Rio Ferdinand, Ashley Cole, Ryan Giggs, as well as others such as retired banker (and ex-knight) Fred Goodwin and Prince Charles, the Prince of Wales. He is a visiting professor at the London School of Economics.\n\nTomlinson was born and grew up in a working-class area of Woodhouse in Leeds, West Yorkshire. After winning a place at Leeds Grammar School he went on to Balliol College, Oxford where he earned the top first in the University in PPE. After Oxford he continued his philosophical studies at the University of Sussex and in 1977 went to the University of Paris VIII, at the time notorious for its radical philosophy department. Tomlinson met the philosopher Gilles Deleuze there and went on to translate eight of his books.\n\nIn 1984 he joined New Court Chambers and according to Carman’s biographer, Dominic Carman, Tomlinson \"made a deep impression\" on George Carman who was then head of chambers. Carman regarded him as his star performer, insisting that he become his junior in the two Branson defamation cases - the British Airways \"dirty tricks\" campaign against Virgin Atlantic, and the case involving an alleged attempt to bribe Richard Branson by the head of the lottery company GTECH S.p.A..\n\nIn 2000 he became a founder member of Matrix Chambers. Other founding members included Cherie Booth QC, Lord Brennan QC, James Crawford SC, Professor Conor Gearty, Ben Emmerson QC, Lord Ken Macdonald QC, Clare Montgomery QC, Helen Mountfield QC, Tim Owen QC and Philippe Sands QC\n\nTomlinson has had a very broad practice at the Bar. In addition to his work in privacy and media law he been instructed in public law, criminal law and commercial cases. His cases range from substantial Chancery Division cases such as that relating to Marlborough Fine Art and the Francis Bacon Estate to representing the DPP in the Criminal Court of Appeal in the first application on the changed law on double jeopardy.\n\nIn 2007 Tomlinson successfully represented Lord Baker a former Environment Secretary in a Freedom of Information request against John Prescott, the then Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions. The Information Tribunal ruled that civil servants' advice to ministers on major planning decisions should be disclosed to anyone who asks for it once the decision is taken.\n\nHe represented Prince Charles in preventing the publication of the Prince’s Hong Kong travel diaries and claimed that any arguments that the journals should be published in the public interest were \"far-fetched\". He was the leading barrister in the campaign to force the public release of information relating to MPs' expenses.\n\nTomlinson is known as a \"super injunction\" specialist protecting celebrities from the disclosure of \"private\" information but in accordance with the bar’s taxi rank principle he works on both sides of this legal divide. In the case where England football captain John Terry went to court to protect details of a relationship with Vanessa Perroncel, (the ex-girlfriend of his England team-mate Wayne Bridge) Tomlinson represented Associated Newspapers (not Terry, as is often wrongly reported). He also represented Jeremy Clarkson’s ex-wife Alex Hall where Clarkson was seeking (but subsequently dropped) efforts to prevent Hall from claiming that they had had an affair during his subsequent marriage. In Ntuli v Donald he again acted for the Defendant, Ntuli, a former partner of \"Take That’s\" Howard Donald, who had obtained a \"super-injunction\" to prevent her revealing details of their relationship (and preventing the reporting of the existence of the injunction itself). This was the first appeal against a \"super-injunction\". It was removed by the Court of Appeal who allowed the proceedings to be reported and Donald and Ntuli to be named. Tomlinson successfully represented the publisher Harper Collins when the BBC sought to prevent a publication revealing the identity of Top Gear’s secret racing-driver, The Stig.\n\nThe new law of privacy has not been popular with newspaper editors. In a 2008 speech to the Society of Editors, the editor of the Daily Mail, Paul Dacre said\n\n\"Britain’s leading privacy QC, Hugh Tomlinson, declared, in words that should chill all of us, the following... \"\"The law of privacy has come a long way in a short time ... We are gradually moving from a position where anything could be published unless it was forbidden to the opposite – nothing can be published unless it can be justified. Under the influence of the Human Rights case law from Strasbourg, we are moving slowly but inescapably towards the stricter privacy protection of French or Italian law\".\" \n\nTomlinson represented Robert Murat in the defamation action against numerous British newspapers. Murat, an Anglo Portuguese local seeking to help was falsely accused by the British press of being involved in the disappearance of the three-year-old Madeleine McCann. Tomlinson also represented Christopher Jefferies, the retired Bristol school teacher and landlord of murder victim Joanna Yeates, over the lurid and malicious press coverage of Jefferies during the case. In both cases substantial damages were received.\n\nIn the News of the world phone-hacking scandal Tomlinson acted for Sienna Miller whose case led to the final admission by the News of the World that more than one journalist was involved in the hacking. He was the lead counsel for the claimants in the first and second rounds of the Mobile Telephone Voicemail Interception Litigation against the News of the World. His other phone-hacking clients include Jude Law, Ulrika Jonsson, Ashley Cole, Ryan Giggs, Pete Doherty, Leslie Ash, Lee Chapman, Chris Bryant MP, Simon Hughes MP, Brian Paddick, Tessa Jowell MP, John Prescott and Neil and Glenys Kinnock. He also acted in the phone hacking judicial review of the Metropolitan police.\n\nIn 2014 Tomlinson represented Amnesty International in the Investigatory Powers Tribunal in a case in which the Security Services were forced to concede that their arrangements for dealing with legally privileged material were unlawful and accepted that Amnesty’s communications had been illegally intercepted. He acted for Amnesty International in its subsequent challenge to the legality of the bulk interception of communications by UK intelligence agencies in the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nTomlinson represented the pianist James Rhodes in his successful 2015 appeal to the Supreme Court which led to the overturning of an injunction to prevent the publication of his autobiography, \"Instrumental.\" In 2017, Tomlinson represented the entertainer Michael Barrymore in his successful claim for wrongful arrest against the Essex Police.\n\nTomlinson is an active blogger. He represented Nightjack the police blogger whom \"The Times\" sought (successfully) to name and expose. He is a founding editor of the United Kingdom Supreme Court blog and runs the influential blog Inforrm. This blog is at the centre of the debate on press freedom and regulation and Tomlinson has often blogged his proposals for media and press reform.\n\nTomllnson is a founder member and the Chair of Hacked Off, the campaign for a free and accountable press. This was set up to campaign for a public inquiry into the phone hacking scandal. Shortly afterwards the Leveson Inquiry was set up. Tomlinson gave evidence to the inquiry and a number of his proposals were accepted by the inquiry. Hacked Off supported victims of press abuse who gave evidence and has, since 2011, campaigned for the implementation of Leveson Inquiry recommendations.\n\nTomlinson has written an LSE Media Policy brief on the Leveson recommendations: \"The New UK Model of Press Regulation\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "545069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=545069", "title": "Intendant", "text": "Intendant\n\nThe title of intendant ( , Portuguese and ) has been used in several countries through history. The intendancy system was a centralizing administrative system developed in France. When France won the War of the Spanish Succession and the House of Bourbon was established on the throne of Spain, the intendancy system was extended to Spain and the Spanish Empire. Regions were divided into districts administered by the intendant. The title continues to be used in Spain and parts of Spanish America for particular government officials. \nIntendants were royal civil servants in France under the Old Regime. A product of the centralization policies of the French crown, intendants were appointed \"commissions,\" and not purchasable hereditary \"offices,\" which thus prevented the abuse of sales of royal offices and made them more tractable and subservient emissaries of the king. Intendants were sent to supervise and enforce the king's will in the provinces and had jurisdiction over three areas: finances, policing and justice.\n\nTheir missions were always temporary, which helped reduce favorable bias toward a province, and were focused on royal inspection. Article 54 of the Code Michau described their functions as \"to learn about all crimes, misdemeanors and financial misdealings committed by our officials and of other things concerning our service and the tranquility of our people\" (\"informer de tous crimes, abus et malversations commises par nos officiers et autres choses concernant notre service et le soulagement de notre peuple\").\n\nIn the 17th and 18th centuries, the intendants were chosen from the \"noblesse de robe\" (\"administrative nobility\") or the upper-bourgeoisie. Generally, they were masters of requests in the \"Conseil des parties\". They were chosen by the Controller-General of Finances who asked the advice of the Secretary of State for War for those who were to be sent in border provinces. They were often young: Charles Alexandre de Calonne became an intendant at the age of 32, Turgot and Louis Bénigne François Berthier de Sauvigny at the age of 34, and Louis-Urbain-Aubert de Tourny at the age of 40.\n\nA symbol of royal centralization and absolutism, the intendant had numerous adversaries. Those nostalgic for an administration based on noble lineage (such as Saint-Simon) saw intendants as parvenus and usurpers of noble power. Partisans of a less absolute monarchy (such as Fénelon) called for them to be abolished. Jacques Necker, the only Minister of Finances since 1720 who had not himself been an intendant, accused them of incompetence because of their youth and social aspirations. The \"cahiers de doléances\" of 1789 depicted them as over zealous agents of fiscal policies which weighed heavily on the people.\n\nThe term \"intendant\" was also used for certain positions close to the Controller-General (see this term for more information):\n\nIn the same way, the term \"intendant général\" was used for certain commissioned positions close to the State Secretaries of War and of the Navy.\n\nAs early as the 15th century, the French kings sent commissioners to the provinces to report on royal and administrative issues and to undertake any necessary action. These agents of the king were recruited from among the masters of requests, the Councillors of State and members of the Parlements or the Court of Accounts. Their mission was always for a specific mandate and lasted for a limited period. Along with these, there were also commissioners sent to the army, in charge of provisioning the army, policing and finances; they would supervise accountants, providers, merchants, and generals, and attend war councils and tribunals for military crimes. Such commissioners are found in Corsica as early as 1553, in Bourges in 1592, in Troyes in 1594, and in Limoges in 1596.\n\nWhen Henry IV ascended the throne in 1589, one of his prime focuses was to reduce the privileges of the provincial governors who, in theory, represented \"the presence of the king in his province\" but had, during the civil wars of the early modern period, proven themselves to be highly intractable; these positions had long been held by only the highest ranked noble families in the realm. The Intendants to the provinces —- the term \"Intendant\" appears around 1620 during the reign of Louis XIII – became an effective tool of regional control.\n\nUnder Louis XIII's minister Cardinal Richelieu, with France's entry into the Thirty Years' War in 1635, the Intendants became a permanent institution in France. No longer mere inspectors, their role became one of government administrators. During the Fronde in 1648, the members of Parlement of the \"Chambre Saint-Louis\" demanded that the Intendants be suppressed; Mazarin and Anne of Austria gave in to these demands except in the case of border provinces threatened by Spanish or Imperial attack. At the end of the Fronde, the Intendants were reinstated.\n\nWhen Louis XIV (1643–1715) was in power, the Marquis of Louvois, War Secretary between 1677 and 1691, further expanded the power of the provincial intendants. They monitored Louis's refinements of the French military, including the institution of a merit promotion system and a policy of enlistment limited to single men for periods of four years. After 1680, Intendants in France had a permanent position in a fixed region (or \"généralité\"); their official title is \"intendant de justice, police et finances, commissaire départi dans les généralités du royaume pour l'exécution des ordres du roi\".\n\nThe position of Intendant remained in existence until the French Revolution. The title was maintained thereafter for military officers with responsibility for financial auditing at regimental level and above.\n\nAppointed and revoked by the king and reporting to the Controller-General of Finances, the Intendant in his \"généralité\" had at his service a small team of secretaries. In the 18th century, the \"généralité\" was subdivided into \"subdelegations\" at the head of which was placed a \"subdelegate\" (having also a team of secretaries) chosen by the Intendant. In this way, the Intendant was relatively understaffed given his large jurisdiction.\n\n\nThe French North American colony of New France, which later became the Canadian province of Quebec, also had a senior official called an intendant, who was responsible to the French King. New France's first intendant was Jean Talon, comte d'Orsainville in 1665, and the last one, at the time of the British conquest of Quebec was Pierre François de Rigaud.\n\nIntendants were introduced into Spain and the Spanish Empire during the eighteenth-century Bourbon Reforms. The reforms were designed by the new dynasty to make political administration more efficient and to promote economic, commercial, and fiscal development of their new realms. An \"intendente\" was in charge of a Spanish administrative unit, called an intendencia, which could include one or more provinces. The \"intendente\" was appointed directly by the Crown and had responsibility to oversee the treasury, the collection of taxes, and to promote agriculture and economic growth in general. With fiscal powers that gave them a say in almost all administrative, ecclesiastical and military matters, \"intendentes\" were conceived by the Bourbon kings to be a check on other local officials (who in the past couple of centuries had come to gain their position through the sale of offices or inheritance), just as the \"intendants\" had been in France a century earlier. Throughout the 18th century the Bourbons experimented with the powers and duties of the intendants, both in Spain and overseas, so what follows is only a general description of the Spanish intendancy. In any given area at any given time, the duties of the intendant would have been specified by the laws that established that particular intendancy.\n\nThe first \"intendencias\" were established in Spain after 1711, during the War of the Spanish Succession on the advice of Jean Orry, who had been sent by Louis XIV of France to help his young grandson Philip V set up his new government. The first intendants (\"superintendentes generales del ejército\") oversaw the finances of the army and of the territories conquered by the Bourbons, and after the war, they were made permanent (\"intendentes de ejército y provincia\"). (After 1724, most intendancies lost their military character except in areas with a captaincy general and in Navarre.) In 1749 an intendancy was established in every province, with the intendant also holding the office of corregidor of the capital city. (The offices were separated again in 1766). District \"alcaldes mayores\" or \"coregidores\" were subordinated to the provincial \"intendente-corregidor\" and assisted him in managing the province and implementing reforms.\n\nAs a result of the Seven Years' War an intendancy was set up in Cuba in 1764. The Cuban intendant had oversight of the army's and the royal treasury's finances. (Two new intendancies with oversight only over the treasury were established in 1786 in Camagüey and Santiago de Cuba.) After a two years of experimentation with the new office, an intendancy was introduced in Louisiana (1764).\n\nThat same year \"Visitador General\" José de Gálvez created a plan to set up intendancies in New Spain (Mexico). The first one was set up in central Mexico in 1786, followed in 1787 by Veracruz, Puebla, Valladolid in Michoacan, Guadalajara, Oaxaca, Guanajuato, Zacatecas, San Luis Potosí, Durango, Sonora, and in 1789 Mérida, the main city in Yucatán. These administrative changes codified existing regional divisions of Center (Mexico, Veracruz, Puebla, Michoacan), South (Oaxaca, Mérida), and North (Zacatecas, Guanajuato, San Luis Potosí, Durango, and Sonora).\n\nIn 1776 Gálvez, now Minister of the Indies, established an intendancy (\"superintendencia\") for all of Venezuela in 1776, and several in the Río de la Plata in 1783. Most of the overseas intendants were assisted by officials (\"subdelegados\") who replaced the old \"corregidores\" or \"alcaldes mayores\". Initially intendancies were held by a separate person from the viceroy or the governor, but eventually in many places the offices were granted to one person due to conflicts that emerged between these two.\n\nMore intendancies were established in Quito, Peru, Philippines, Puerto Rico (1784), Guatemala, more areas of New Spain, Chile (1786) and Cuenca (1786). The Revolt of the Comuneros prevented their installation in New Granada.\n\nIn Portugal, historically, the title \"intendant\" (\"intendente\" in Portuguese) has been mainly associated with police roles. \n\nFrom 1760 to 1832, the head of the Police of the Kingdom of Portugal had the title of \"Intendant General of the Police of the Court and of the Kingdom\". A similar title - that of \"Intendant General of the Public Security\" - was used from 1928 to 1932 to designate the head of the Portuguese Civil Police.\n\nPresently, intendant is a rank of officer in the Public Security Police, roughly equivalent to the military rank of lieutenant-colonel. Analogously, the police rank of sub-intendant corresponds to the rank of major, while the police rank of superintendent corresponds to the rank of colonel.\n\nThe rank insignia of an intendant consists in a dark blue epaulet with two crossed horsewhips inside a laurel wreath and two PSP stars. Each PSP star consists in a six points silver star with the \"SP\" monogram in the center. The rank insignia of a sub-intendant is similar but with only a single PSP star.\n\nNowadays in the Spanish armed forces, the title Intendant refers to a Colonel in the Supply Branch either in the Navy, Army or Air Force. It is also used in some branches of the administration such as the Catalan 'Autonomic' Police, (\"Mossos d'Esquadra\" in Catalan) or in some Autonomous Communities (\"Comunidades Autónomas\" in Spanish).\n\nIn Argentina, city mayors are referred to as \"intendentes\". This meaning is not at all connected to the usage in other countries. Spanish-language media in countries other than Argentina tend to refer to Argentine city mayors as \"alcaldes\", which is the most common Spanish word for mayor.\n\nChile is administratively divided in 16 regions. Each region is headed by an intendant, appointed by the president. \nThe intendants of Chile by region with political parties are:\n\nThe Republic of Paraguay is administratively divided into 17 \"departamentos\" (departments), each of which is headed by an \"gobernador departamental\" (departmental governor). These \"departamentos\" are divided into 236 \"distritos\" (districts) (plus the capital district), districts are headed by an \"intendente municipal\" (municipal intendant), these intendants are popularly elected, and serve a term of five years.\n\nUruguay is divided administratively into 19 \"departamentos\" (departments). The executive power of each department is the \"intendencia\" (intendancy), headed by an \"intendente departamental\" (departmental intendant). The intendants are popularly elected, and serve a term of five years.\n\nA daikan was an intendant or magistrate in historical Japan. The office he held was called the Daikansho. The daikan was responsible for overseeing a range of governmental functions, including infrastructure, tax collection, and judicial matters.\n\nThe position of intendant was part of the tsarist Russian army from 1812 to 1868; intendants were responsible for supplies, finances, etc. in the field. After the 1935 rank reform that established 'personal ranks' in the Soviet military, it was reintroduced as the rank title for administrative and supply officers. The specific ranks, their collar insignia, and their line equivalents were:\n\nOn 7 May 1940, the rank title system for all Soviet Army senior officers was changed to bring it closer in line with standard European practice, and the ranks of major general of the intendant service, lieutenant general of the intendant service, and colonel general of the intendant service were introduced. Senior officers from brigintendant to armintendant rank underwent a re-attestation process and were given a general rank.\n\nOn 30 March 1942, the 'intendant' ranks equivalent to those between lieutenant and colonel were abolished, and officers holding those ranks also underwent a re-attestation process and received ranks ranging from lieutenant of the intendant service to colonel of the administrative service.\n\nIn Scotland intendant is an archaic title meaning \"supervisor\" or \"curator\". The senior officer of the City of Glasgow Police was called an Intendant in the document establishing the force in 1800.\n\nFor much of its history, the chief magistrate of the city of Charleston, South Carolina was the Intendant of the City, roughly corresponding to a mayor. The title Intendant was also used in other Lowcountry towns, where the office was assisted by \"wardens,\" a system which may have derived from earlier ecclesiastical administration under colonial rule.\n\nIt is also commonly found today in many theaters and opera houses in Europe, where it is the equivalent to General Director, a title given to an individual in a managerial position, generally having control over all aspects of the company.\n\nIn \"\", Intendant was a title in the mirror universe. The mirror universe version of Kira Nerys held the position of \"Intendant of Bajor\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1703333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1703333", "title": "Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades", "text": "Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades\n\nThe Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades (; named after Izz ad-Din al-Qassam, often shortened to Al-Qassam Brigades, EQB) is the military wing of the Palestinian Hamas organization.\n\nCreated in mid-1991, it was at the time concerned with blocking the Oslo Accords negotiations. From 1994 to 2000, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades carried out a number of attacks against Israelis.\n\nAt the beginning of the Second Intifada, the group became a central target of Israel. The group's strength and its ability to carry out complex and lethal attacks surprised many observers. The Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades operated several cells in the West Bank, but most of them were destroyed by 2004 following numerous Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) operations in the region. In contrast, Hamas retained a forceful presence in the Gaza Strip, generally considered its stronghold. The group is currently headed by Marwan Issa. Yahya Sinwar, Hamas political leader in the Gaza Strip since February 2017, is a military leader in the Brigades in Gaza. \n\nThe Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades are listed as a terrorist organisation by the European Union, the United States, Australia, New Zealand. the United Kingdom\n\nThe group is named after Izz ad-Din al-Qassam, a Muslim preacher in Mandatory Palestine. In 1930 al-Qassam organised and established the Black Hand, a militant organisation that was opposed to Zionism and British and French rule in the Levant.\n\nAccording to the al-Qassam Brigades, its aims are:\n\nThe Izz al-Din al-Qassam Brigades are an integral part of Hamas. While they are subordinate to Hamas's broad political goals and its ideological objectives, they have a significant level of independence in decision making. In 1997, political scientists Ilana Kass and Bard O'Neill described Hamas's relationship with the Brigades as reminiscent of Sinn Féin's relationship to the military arm of the Irish Republican Army and quoted a senior Hamas official: \"The Izz al-Din al-Qassam Brigade is a separate armed military wing, which has its own leaders who do not take their orders [from Hamas] and do not tell us of their plans in advance.\" Carrying the IRA analogy further, Kass and O'Neill stated that the separation of the political and military wings shielded Hamas' political leaders from responsibility for terrorism while the plausible deniability this provided made Hamas an eligible representative for peace negotiations as had happened with Sinn Féin's Gerry Adams.\n\nThe fighters' identities and positions in the group often remain secret until their death; even when they fight against Israeli incursions, all the militants wear a characteristic black hood on which the group's green headband is attached. The Brigades operate on a model of independent cells and even high-ranking members are often unaware of the activities of other cells. This allows the group to consistently regenerate after member deaths. During the al-Aqsa intifada, the leaders of the group were targeted by numerous airstrikes that killed many members, including Salah Shahade and Adnan al-Ghoul. The current leader of the Brigades, Mohammed Deif, remains at large and is said to have survived at least five assassination attempts.\n\nThe international community, and more specifically the United Nations, considers the practice of war combatants to turn civilians into human shields as a violation of the Geneva Conventions standards of war and indiscriminate attacks, e.g. by rockets or suicide bombers on civilian populations as illegal under international law.\n\nThe transition into a recognised militant organisation began during the establishment of the Oslo Accords to assist Hamas efforts in blocking them. In 2003 and 2004, the brigades in Gaza resisted IDF incursions, including the siege of Jabalya in October 2004. However, these battles took a heavy toll in the brigade's ranks, which suffered heavy losses. The group, however, continued to gain strength and remained capable of carrying out attacks in the following years. The brigades can count on a large pool of people willing to join them , smuggle in supplies and provide the fighters with homemade weapons such as the al-Bana, the Batar, the Yasin and the Qassam rocket.\n\nIn early 2005, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades appeared to stand by a truce negotiated between the government of Israel and the Palestinian Authority. However the brigades took advantage of the truce to regroup. Following Israel's withdrawal from the Gaza Strip in August 2005, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades staged several rallies in which they displayed thousands of fighters and an assortment of weaponry in Gaza. These celebrations ended abruptly when, on 23 September, twenty Palestinians were killed as a car carrying Qassam rockets exploded among a dense crowd. Since this incident, the brigades refrained from staging public displays of force as well as launching attacks at Israel, which, in turn, refrained from targeting Hamas members in assassinations and raids. Despite occasional and brief flare-ups of violence, the brigades generally respected this truce until the beginning of June 2006. The Palestinian Authority has been, during this period, under intense pressure from Israel and the Middle East Quartet to disarm Hamas, but fears of heavy resistance from the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades and a possible civil war, coupled with a victory of the movement in the 2006 legislative elections, prevented any such attempts. As a result, it is widely believed that the brigades stockpiled thousands of homemade weapons and projectiles during 2005 and 2006 and were actively attempting to rebuild their destroyed cells in the West Bank.\n\nIn May 2006, a police force was formed in Gaza, consisting of thousands of brigade fighters. It aimed to restore law and order in the city but instead broke out into clashes with Fatah militias. On 10 June 2006, after the Gaza beach blast in which seven civilians died, the brigades announced a cessation of the 2005 truce with Israel. In the following hours, they claimed responsibility for launching Qassam rockets at the Israeli town of Sderot, and threatened to step up their attacks.\n\nIn June and July 2006, the al-Qassam Brigades were involved in the operation which led to the capture of Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, and in the subsequent heavy fighting in the Gaza Strip following Operation Summer Rains, launched by the IDF. It was the first time in over 18 months that the brigades were actively involved in fighting against Israeli soldiers. In May 2007, the brigades acknowledged they lost 192 fighters during the operation.\n\nIn 2005 President Abbas had taken direct control of the PA security forces which was loyal to the president's Fatah movement, and the Hamas government formed a separate 3,000 strong paramilitary police force in the Gaza Strip, called Executive Force, which was made up of members of the al-Qassam Brigades. In January 2007, Abbas outlawed the Executive Force and ordered that by then its 6,000 members be incorporated into the PA security forces under his command. The order was resisted by the Hamas government, which instead announced plans to double the size of the force to 12,000 men. The al-Qassam Brigades and the Executive Force took part in the Hamas takeover of Gaza in June 2007. \n\nIn June 2008, Egypt brokered a ceasefire which lasted until 4 November when Israeli forces crossed into Gaza and killed six Hamas fighters which saw rocket attacks on Israel increase from two in September and October to 190 in November. Both sides claimed the other had broken the truce. The continuing rocket fire into Israel led to the Gaza War (2008–09) in late December 2008.\n\nSince its establishment in December 1987, the military capability of the brigades has increased markedly, from rifles to Qassam rockets and more.\n\nThe brigades have a substantial weapon's inventory of light automatic weapons and grenades, improvised rockets, mortars, bombs, suicide belts and explosives. The group engages in military-style training, including training, which takes place in Gaza itself on a range of weapons designed to inflict significant casualties on civilian and military targets.\n\nThe Brigade also has a variety of Anti-tank Guided Missiles, like Kornet-E, Konkurs-M, Bulsae-2 (North Korean version of Fagot), 9K11 Malyutka and MILAN missiles, as well as possess anti-aircraft missiles MANPADS, such as the SA-7B, SA-18 Igla missiles, and it is believed that it received a number of SA-24 Igla-S from Libya.\n\nWhile the number of members is known only to the Brigades leadership, in 2011 Israel estimated that the Brigades have a core of several hundred members who receive military-style training, including training in Iran and Syria. Additionally, the brigades have an estimated 30,000 operatives \"of varying degrees of skill and professionalism\" who are members of the internal security forces, Hamas and their supporters. These operatives can be expected to reinforce the Brigades in an \"emergency situation.\" Other sources say otherwise estimating their strength at 30,000-50,000.\n\nAccording to a statement by CIA director George Tenet in 2000, Hamas has pursued a capability to conduct attacks with toxic chemicals. There have been reports of Hamas operatives planning and preparing attacks incorporating chemicals. In one case, nails and bolts packed into explosives detonated by a Hamas suicide bomber in a December 2001 attack in the Ben-Yehuda street in Jerusalem were soaked in rat poison.\nIn 2014 they launched the first Palestinian reconnaissance (UAV) aircraft called Ababeel1.\n\nBeginning of Second Intifada September 2000.\nEnd of Second Intifada.\n\nOn 5 January 1996 Israel's Shin Bet arranged for a cell phone that was both bugged and contained explosives be given to Yahya Ayyash. When it was confirmed that it was Ayyash on the phone, Shin Bet remotely detonated it, killing Ayyash instantly.\n\nOn 3 September 2005, after Israel's withdrawal from settlements in the Gaza Strip, Izz ad-Din al-Qassam revealed for the first time the names and functions of its commanders on its website as well as in a printed bulletin distributed to Palestinians. Most of the information published, including pictures of three leaders, was reportedly already known by Israel's intelligence services. According to the bulletin, in 2006 Mohammed Deif was overall commander with Ahmed Ja'abari as second in command. Other sub-commanders controlled Gaza City (Raid Said), the northern Gaza Strip and Jabalya refugee camp (Ahmad al-Ghandur), southern Gaza Strip (Muhammad Abu Shamala) and Khan Younis (Muhammad al-Sanwar).\n\nOn 12 July 2006, the Israeli Air Force bombed a house in the Sheikh Radwan neighborhood of Gaza City, where Mohammed Deif, Ahmad al-Ghandur and Raid Said were meeting. The three-story house was completely leveled, killing Hamas official Nabil al-Salmiah, his wife, their five children and two other children. Two of the three brigades leaders present escaped with moderate wounds while Deif received a spinal injury that required four hours of surgery.\n\nOn 1 January 2009, Nizar Rayan, a top Hamas leader who served as a liaison between the Palestinian organization's political leadership and its military wing, was killed in an Israeli Air Force strike during Operation Cast Lead. The day before the attack, Rayan had advocated renewal of suicide attacks on Israel, declaring, \"Our only language with the Jew is through the gun\". A 2,000-pound bomb was dropped on his house, also killing his 4 wives (Hiam 'Abdul Rahman Rayan, 46; Iman Khalil Rayan, 46; Nawal Isma'il Rayan, 40; and Sherine Sa'id Rayan, 25) and 11 of their children (As'ad, 2; Usama Ibn Zaid, 3; 'Aisha, 3; Reem, 4; Miriam, 5; Halima, 5; 'Abdul Rahman, 6; Abdul Qader, 12; Aaya, 12; Zainab, 15; and Ghassan, 16).\n\nOn 3 January 2009, Israeli aircraft attacked the car in which Abu Zakaria al-Jamal, a leader of Izz ad-Din al-Qassam armed wing, was traveling. He subsequently died of the wounds suffered in the bombing.\n\nOn 4 January 2009, the Israeli Air Force struck and killed in Khan Yunis two senior Izz ad-Din al-Qassam leaders, Hussam Hamdan and Muhammad Hilo, both of whom the Israelis blamed for attacks against Israel. According to Israeli authorities Hussam Hamdan was in charge of rocket attacks against Beersheba and Ofakim, while Muhammad Hilo was reportedly behind Hamas' special forces in Khan Yunis.\n\nOn 15 January 2009, the Israeli Air Force bombed a house in Jabaliya, killing a prominent Qassam Brigades commander named Mohammed Watfa (the strike targeted the Palestinian Interior Minister Said Seyam, who was also killed).\n\nOn 30 July 2010, one of the leaders Issa Abdul-Hadi Al-Batran, aged 40, was killed at Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip by an Israeli airstrike.\n\nOn 14 November 2012, the Ahmed Jaabari, the head of Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigade. He was killed along with seven others in Gaza marking the beginning of Israel's \"Operation Pillar of Defense\".\n\nOn 21 August 2014, an Israeli air strike killed Muhammad Abu Shamala, the sub-commander of Southern Gaza Strip, Raed al Atar, the commander of the Rafah company and member of the Hamas high military council, and Mohammed Barhoum.\n\nOn 30 January 2018, Imad Al-Alami died as a result of injuries sustained while he was inspecting his personal weapon in Gaza City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10578350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10578350", "title": "Ladin Autonomist Union", "text": "Ladin Autonomist Union\n\nThe Ladin Autonomist Union (; ; UAL) is a minor progressive-centrist political party in Trentino, Italy, that seeks to represent the Ladin minority in the Province and especially that living in Fassa Valley. Its main leader is Giuseppe Detomas.\n\nThe party was formed in 1983 and its founder Ezio Anesi was elected that year provincial deputy for the Italian Republican Party. In the 1992 Anesi was elected to the Italian Senate for the Italian Socialist Party.\n\nAfter the disappearance of the so-called First Republic parties, including the Socialists, the UAL formed an alliance with the Trentino Tyrolean Autonomist Party (PATT) at the provincial level and with The Olive Tree (\"l'Ulivo\") at the national level. Under these agreements, Anesi was elected to the Provincial Council in 1993 from the PATT slate, while Detomas represented UAL in the Chamber of Deputies from 1996 to 2006. That was the highest point for the party.\n\nSince the introduction in 2003 of a seat for the Ladin minority, the UAL has always prevailed. In the 2013 provincial election it won 1.1% of the vote (51.8% in Fassa Falley). However, in 2015, the party was defeated by the Fassa Association in the Fassa community elections, the first after the introduction of valley communities in 2006.\n\nIn the Italian constitutional referendum, 2016 won Fassa supported the No with 57.9 % against the UAL supported Yes in Fassa Valley.\n\nResults are expressed in %. Before 2003, the UAL usually did not contest the elections as a stand-alone list.\n\n"}
{"id": "15851233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15851233", "title": "Late industrialisation", "text": "Late industrialisation\n\nAlice Amsden, building on the insights of Gerschenkron, identifies Late Industrialization as a particular form of industrialisation the study of which is useful for those interested in study of the prospects for material progress in developing countries. Amsden notes that whilst the 1st industrial revolution in the UK towards the end of the eighteenth century, and the 2nd industrial revolution 100 years later in Germany and the US both involved new products and processes, the countries that did not start industrialization until the 20th century tended to generate neither new products nor processes. These, the late industrializers, raised their income and transformed their productive structures using borrowed technology.\n\nAnother take on this would be that the 1st industrial revolution was based on invention, the 2nd on the basis of innovation and more recently in the late industrialisers are industrialising on the basis of learning.\n\nAmsden’s uses her thesis of late industrialization to discuss the following countries: South Korea, Taiwan, Brazil, India, possibly Mexico, and Turkey and also Japan although this last country is regarded as, in many respects, special. \n\nLearning in these countries has been achieved through the use of similar institutions in particular those associated with industrial policy. These learners compete, initially at least, via low wages, state subsidies or other forms of government supports, and gradual increases in quality of, and efficiency in producing, existing products. The shop floor in businesses tends to be the “strategic focus” when competition is based on borrowed technology. \n\nThe late industrialisers have moved into the more mature markets of the innovators and the productivity of long-established innovators has been successfully challenged by the learners' lower wages, intense efforts to raise productivity and firms supported by industrial policy.\n"}
{"id": "253283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253283", "title": "Linguistic imperialism", "text": "Linguistic imperialism\n\nLinguistic imperialism, or language imperialism, a phenomenon that occasionally occurs, defined as \"the transfer of a dominant language to other people\". This language \"transfer\" comes about because of imperialism. The transfer is considered to be a demonstration of power—traditionally, military power but also, in the modern world, economic power—and aspects of the dominant culture are usually transferred along with the language.\n\nIn the modern world, linguistic imperialism may also be considered in the context of international development, affecting the standard by which organizations like the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank evaluate the trustworthiness and value of providing structural adjustment loans.\n\nSince the early 1990s, linguistic imperialism has attracted attention among scholars of applied linguistics. In particular, Robert Phillipson's 1992 book, \"Linguistic Imperialism\", has led to considerable debate about its merits and shortcomings. Phillipson found denunciations of linguistic imperialism that dated back to Nazi critiques of the British Council (European aristocracy was at the time agreeing on the use of English), and to Soviet analyses of English as the language of world capitalism and world domination. In this vein, criticism of English as a world language is rooted in anti-globalism.\n\nPhillipson defines English linguistic imperialism as \"the dominance of English... asserted and maintained by the establishment and continuous reconstitution of structural and cultural inequalities between English and other languages.\"\n\nPhillipson's theory supports the historic spread of English as an international language and that language's continued dominance, particularly in postcolonial settings such as India, Pakistan, Uganda, Zimbabwe, etc., but also increasingly in \"neo-colonial\" settings such as continental Europe. His theory draws mainly on Johan Galtung's imperialism theory, Antonio Gramsci's social theory, and in particular on his notion of cultural hegemony.\n\nA central theme of Phillipson's theory is the complex hegemonic processes which, he asserts, continue to sustain the pre-eminence of English in the world today. His book analyzes the British Council's use of rhetoric to promote English, and discusses key tenets of English applied linguistics and English-language-teaching methodology. These tenets hold that:\n\n\nAccording to Phillipson, those who promote English—organizations such as the British Council, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and individuals such as operators of English-language schools—use three types of argument:\n\nOther arguments for English are\n\nAnother theme in Phillipson's work is \"linguicism\"—the species of prejudice that leads to endangered languages becoming extinct or losing their local eminence due to the rise and competing prominence of English.\n\nIn 1976, Black school children in Soweto protested at being taught in Afrikaans, which had been pushed by the Apartheid authorities concerned at the growing refusal of the Black population to speak it. They reasoned that by only having access to Afrikaner resources the South African government could control them more closely than having access to a global language i.e. English. 176 children died for the right to be taught in English. The Uprising became a turning point in the overthrow of Apartheid years later.\n\nAt various times, especially in colonial settings or where a dominant culture has sought to unify a region under its control, a similar phenomenon has arisen. In the Roman Empire, Latin—originally the language of a limited region in central Italy—was imposed first on the rest of Italy and later on large parts of Europe, largely displacing previous languages spoken there, while in Roman Africa Latin was merely dominant until it and the native languages were displaced by Arabization.\n\nAnatolia was similarly diverse linguistically when it was ruled by small native states. Under the Persian and Hellenistic empires, the language of the conqueror served as the \"lingua franca\". The indigenous Anatolian languages disappeared.\n\nIn the Far East, Africa and South America, regional languages have been or are being coercively replaced or marginalized by the language of a dominant culture—Tibetan and regional Chinese varieties by Mandarin Chinese, Ainu and Ryukyuan by Japanese, Quechua by Spanish, Malayo-Polynesian languages by Malay, Philippine languages by Filipino/Tagalog and so on. Arabization has eliminated many indigenous languages in North Africa, and restricted Coptic to sacred use.\n\nThe English language during the Middle Ages was an object of linguistic imperialism by the French language, particularly following the Norman conquest. For hundreds of years, French or Anglo-Norman was the language of administration (\"See Law French\") and therefore a language of superior status in England. Latin remained the language of the church and of learning. Although many words introduced by the Normans are today indistinguishable by most English-speakers from native Germanic words, later-learned loanwords derived from Latin or French often have a more cultured sound to a native English-speaker.\n\nFollowing the establishment of the Holy Roman Empire over much of present-day Germany and Central Europe, the German language and its dialects became the preferred language of many Central-European nobility. With varying success, German spread across much of Central and Eastern Europe as a language of trade and status. This ended with World War II (\"See also Germanization.\").\n\nFrench too has expanded. Languages such as Occitan, Breton, Basque, Catalan and Corsican are to a great extent marginalised in France. This process, known as Francization, often causes resistance amongst the subject peoples, leading to demands for independence. Examples of this can still be found in Brittany and Flanders (Belgium).\n\nSpanish and to a lesser extent Portuguese colonization, made these languages prevalent in South America and in parts of Africa, Asia (the Philippines), Macau and in former times in Formosa. In Iberia, Castilian Spanish, as spoken in the kingdom of Castile was imposed on other regions of Spain, initially by Germanic Habsburg Spain and later more fervently by the French Bourbon Spain; it was labeled \"the companion of the Empire\" by Antonio de Nebrija (1492) in the introduction to his \"Gramática de la lengua castellana\". Russian linguistic imperialism can be detected in Belarus both in the former dispute over the name of the country (Belarus vs Belorussia) and in the common spelling of the name of their president. English transcription has overtaken the Russian form Alexander Lukashenko instead of Belarusian form Alyaksandr Lukashenka.\n\nMany scholars have participated in lively discussions of Phillipson's claims. Alan Davies, for instance, envisions the spectre of Phillipson haunting the Department of Applied Linguistics in Edinburgh:\n\nFor Davies, two cultures inhabit linguistic imperialism: one, a culture of guilt (\"colonies should never have happened\"); the other, that of romantic despair (\"we shouldn't be doing what we are doing\"). Rajagopalan goes a step farther and maintains that Phillipson's book has led to a guilt complex among English language learning and teaching (ELT) professionals.\n\nDavies also argues that Phillipson's claims are not falsifiable: what \"if the dominated... wanted to adopt English and continue to want to keep it? RP's unfalsifiable answer must be that they don't, they can't, they've been persuaded against their better interests.\" It has thus been argued that Phillipson's theory is patronizing in the sense that it does not regard developing countries as being capable of independent decision-making (to adopt or not to adopt ELT). In the context of Nigeria, Bisong holds that people in the \"periphery\" use English pragmatically—they send their children to English-language schools precisely because they want them to grow up multilingual. Regarding Phillipson, Bisong maintains that \"to interpret such actions as emanating from people who are victims of Centre linguistic imperialism is to bend sociolinguistic evidence to suit a preconceived thesis\". If English should be abolished because it is foreign, Bisong argues, then Nigeria itself would also have to be dissolved, because it was conceived as a colonial structure.\n\nFurthermore, the assumption that the English language itself is imperialistic has come under attack. Henry Widdowson has argued that \"there is a fundamental contradiction in the idea that the language of itself exerts hegemonic control: namely that if this were the case, you would never be able to challenge such control\". Additionally, the idea that the promotion of English necessarily implies a demotion of local languages has been challenged. Holborrow points out that \"not all Englishes in the centre dominate, nor are all speakers in the periphery equally discriminated against\". Irish English, for instance, could be regarded as a non-dominant centre variety of English.\n\nThus it could be argued that, while those who follow Phillipson see choices about language as externally imposed, the other camp sees them as decisions made by individuals.\n\nThose who support the arguments favoring the existence of linguistic imperialism claim that arguments against it are often advanced by monolingual native-speakers of English who may see the current status of English as a fact worthy of celebration.\n\nIn contrast, it has been argued that those who see the increasing spread of English in the world as a worrying development (that marginalizes the status of local and regional languages as well as potentially undermining or eroding cultural values) are likely to be far more receptive to Phillipson's views. Alastair Pennycook, Suresh Canagarajah, Adrian Holliday and Julian Edge broadly fall into this group and are often described as critical applied linguists.\n\nHowever, Henry Widdowson’s remarks on critical discourse analysis may also be applied to the critical applied linguists:\n\nAs a response to English linguistic imperialism, de-anglicisation became a matter of national pride in some places and especially in regions that were once under colonial rule, where vestiges of colonial domination are a sensitive subject. Following centuries of English rule in Ireland, an argument for de-anglicisation was delivered before the Irish National Literary Society in Dublin, 25 November 1892; \"When we speak of 'The Necessity for De-Anglicising the Irish Nation', we mean it, not as a protest against imitating what is best in the English people, for that would be absurd, but rather to show the folly of neglecting what is Irish, and hastening to adopt, pell-mell, and indiscriminately, everything that is English, simply because it is English.\" Despite its status as an official language, the Irish language has been reduced to a minority language in Ireland as a result of centuries of English rule, as is the case in North America where their indigenous languages have been replaced by that of the colonists, and continued to decline even after independence.\n\nAccording to Ghil'ad Zuckermann, \"Native tongue title and language rights should be promoted. The government ought to define Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander vernaculars as official languages of Australia. We must change the linguistic landscape of Whyalla and elsewhere. Signs should be in both English and the local indigenous language. We ought to acknowledge intellectual property of indigenous knowledge including language, music and dance.\"\n\nSome who reject the concept of linguistic imperialism argue that the global spread of English is better understood in the framework of appropriation—that English is used around the world \"for local purposes\". In addition to the example of Nigeria, above, the following examples have been given:\n\n\nSuch an \"internationalization\" of English might also create new possibilities for English native-speakers. McCabe elaborates:\n\n"}
{"id": "2615956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2615956", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Guatemala)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Guatemala)\n\nThe Ministry of National Defence () is the agency of the Guatemalan government responsible for the budget, training and policy of the military of Guatemala. Based in Guatemala City, the Defence Ministry is highly guarded, and the President of Guatemala frequently visits. Prior to 1945 the agency was titled the Secretariat of War (\"Secretaría de la Guerra\").\n\nThe ministry is headed by the Minister of National Defence, who reports to the President of Guatemala, the commander in chief of the armed forces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13550861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13550861", "title": "México Indígena", "text": "México Indígena\n\nMéxico Indígena is a project of the American Geographical Society to organize teams of geographers to research the geography of indigenous populations in Mexico. The project's stated objective is to map \"changes in the cultural landscape and conservation of natural resources\" that result from large scale land privatization initiatives underway in Mexico. The project is led by Peter Herlihy at the University of Kansas and is funded by the U.S. Department of Defense through its Foreign Military Studies Office. The project has been the subject of criticism by various groups including groups representing indigenous peoples. Critics allege that the project was not forthcoming about its U.S. military funding, and that the project has various ulterior motives besides gathering information for research purposes. The project began in 2005, and lasted through 2008.\n\nThe México Indígena was the first in a series of planned projects to enhance United States government geographical data around the world. The stated objective is to produce maps of the \"digital human terrain,\" of the region's indigenous peoples. To accomplish this, the American Geographical Society sent geographers to several regions to gather cultural and GIS data and build relationships with local institutions.\n\nMéxico Indígena was led by a team of geographers who specialize in Latin American, including Peter Herlihy of the University of Kansas, as well as Jeremy Dobson and Miguel Aguilar Robledo.\n\nMéxico Indígena's primary method for obtaining and understanding geographic data is participatory research mapping (PRM). In PRM, local investigators, chosen by the communities, are trained by the formal researcher in geographic data gathering techniques. Cognitive mental (individual) maps are converted to consensual (community) maps, including only features whose nature, name, and coordinates have been verified. These are then converted to standardized maps, which the communities may choose to use for educational, political, legal, or other, purposes. Participatory maps of resource-use areas, for example, have been used successfully for indigenous territorial claims in Panama (Herlihy 2003) and elsewhere. México Indígena's primary tool for joining data from different sources to produce maps and to analyze trends is geographic information systems (GIS).\n\nSponsoring and collaborating institutions and participants of the México Indígena research project have included the University of Kansas (US), the Autonomous University of San Luis Potosí (Mexico), the Foreign Military Studies Office, Radiance Technologies (US), and the Mexican federal environmental ministry SEMARNAT.\n\nIn many respects the México Indígena project is an example of military geography. \"FMSO's goal is to help increase an understanding of the world's cultural terrain.\" \n\nThe National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges' International Development Project Database Survey notes that the México Indígena research project has received between $751,000-$1,000,000 from all sources external funds, including: U.S. Department of Defense, Foreign Military Studies Office; U.S. Department of State, Fulbright-Garcia Robles; the American Geographical Society; the University of Kansas' Center of Latin American Studies; Mexico's Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales; and the Universidad Autónoma de San Luis Potosí.\n\nImperial Geography: Geopiratería\n\nThe false attribution of location in the visual arts has been deemed \"geopiracy\" by Vogel (2006) and rigorously defined in Vogel et al. (2008). México Indígena raises consequential questions when humans are \"not\" falsely situated (located) in digitally-generated topographies of the human terrain. The ethical questions generated by the moral quagmire associated with efforts such as the México Indígena project have yet to be adequately addressed. While México Indígena's ethical guidelines explicitly assert \"No information will be acquired through deception or misrepresentation\" significant concerns have arisen regarding the nature of the research, despite the project's embrace of a putatively participatory research methodology that ostensibly \"empowers\" the local community in geographic knowledge generation and manipulation. Naïve statements by team leaders of Mexico Indígena's controversial land titling project designed to produce \"digital human terrains,\" (for example, \"Experience has proven that, when communities themselves give the world their understandings of their land, the world is better equipped to respect these alternative understandings\"), underscore legitimate and deeply troubling questions that have emerged surrounding the ethical conduct of the US-based researchers involved in México Indígena. México Indígena project leader Peter Herlihy and the editor of \"Participatory Mapping of Indigenous Lands in Latin America\" a special Issue of the journal \"Human Organization\" of the Applied Anthropology Association initially explained to the Union of Organizations of the Sierra Juarez of Oaxaca (UNOSJO, S.C.) that the proposed research objective was to assess the influence that the Mexican Government's PROCEDE program has had on indigenous people's communities. Nevertheless, Herlihy did not explain that the research initiative he led was financed by United States Army's Foreign Military Studies Office (FMSO), nor did he mention that research findings would be given directly to FMSO. As the Zapotec's indigenous organization, the Union of Organizations of the Sierra Juarez of Oaxaca notes, \"Herlihy neglected to mention this despite being expressly asked to clarify the eventual use of the data obtained through research.\" Similarly, he failed \"to acknowledge [to UNOSJO, S.C] the participation of Radiance Technologies, a company that specializes in arms development and military intelligence\" \nAccording to a statement released at the end of January 2009 by the Project leader, Peter Herlihy, \"FMSO has financed the expedition to Mexico, as well as others to Colombia, the Antilles and Jordan, through the Radiance Corporation, that administers the contracts between FMSO, AGS, and the universities\" (\"The American Geographical Society's Bowman Expeditions seek to improve geographic understanding at home and abroad: Spotlight on México Indígena\"). Managed under contract by Radiance Technologies, an Alabama-based military contractor specializing in intelligence and logistical services, Herlihy's research has been financed through FMSO, indicating for some that \"the Mexico Indígena project is involved in gathering intelligence for the US Army.\"\nAccording to the Independent Media Center \"The researched [Oaxaca] communities knew nothing of this involvement and are left feeling like victims of geopiracy.\"\n\nThe Kansas City based SmartPort Inc. is pushing forward with its project to convert Kansas City into what is called an inland port for Mexican shipments, and facilitating the free passage of goods across the Mexican border. One may question why Kansas City merchants may have an interest in maps of Mexico. Yet as SmartPort Inc. observes, \"Located in the heart of America at the hub of the transcontinental and NAFTA trade corridors, Kansas City is a center of choice for warehousing, manufacturing and distribution\". Herlihy has commented that his research in Mexico can benefit SmartPort Inc. planners by offering them with information about the regions along Mexico's railways. He said, \"They can take this information and use it for all kinds of things to really understand what they call the cultural terrain,\" Herlihy is reported to have also said. \"You can't even predict all the uses\" \n\nGiven the American Geography Society's long and intimate association with imperial agendas, it is perhaps no surprise that the AGS sponsored México Indígena project has been the source of fierce criticism from indigenous organizations in Mexico, not to mention from a student-based group at the University of Kansas—the academic home of Mexico Indígena. Student supporters of KU Watch's critique of México Indígena demonstrated at the University of Kansas to enhance awareness about research conducted at the University funded by the Department of Defense. In response to criticisms raised by the University of Kansas student group KU Watch, Peter Herlihy, a leader of the Bowman Expedition, said that he was \"proud to raise the flag and say look at what the government is funding,\" In addition, Herlihy reported that his research project \"empowers indigenous people by putting intellectual property where it belongs.\" Moreover, he noted that \"Geographical intelligence is needed for peace and prosperity just like it is needed for war and destruction,\". Recently, a number of geographers have written to the AAG requesting that it conduct its own inquiry into the nature and consequences of Peter Herlihy's research in Mexico, which they \"feel violated the ethical norms of our profession.\"\n\nMeanwhile, Esteban Ortiz Rodea, the Mexican State representative for the Secretary for the Environment and Natural Recourses (SEMARNAT) has publicly acknowledged that no Federal funds were used to support the implementation of the \"México Indígena\" project in the communities of the Sierra Juárez. Moreover, Aldo González, the leader of the Unión de Organizaciones de la Sierra Juárez de Oaxaca (UNOSOJO) apparently only became aware of \"México Indígena's\" ties to FMSO very recently. González has since joined other Zapotec leaders and expressed grave concern regarding the actual intentions of the United States Department of Defense-funded project. This concern culminated in mid January, 2009, when Juan Pérez Luna y Aldo González of the Union of Organizations of the Sierra Juarez of Oaxaca (UNOSJO) released a press statement denouncing the México Indígena's lack of full disclosure regarding funding procured from the United States Army Foreign Military Studies Office.\n\nThe Co-chair of the Indigenous Peoples' Specialty Group (IPSG) of the Association of American Geographers (AAG) and Secretary of the Indigenous Peoples' Knowledges and Rights Commission (IPKRC) of the International Geographical Union (IGU), Renee Pualani Louis, lamented the release of UNOSOJO's declaration by noting how it was such a \"sad day for geographers and anyone doing research with Indigenous communities especially in Meso-America.\"\n\nAs the Unión de Organizaciones de la Sierra Juárez de Oaxaca's press release indicates, Zapotec Indigenous Peoples in Mexico are demanding full transparency from the U.S. scholar leading the United States Department of Defense funded project. In their words, \"Prof. Herlihy failed to mention that he received funding from the Foreign Military Studies Office of the U.S. Armed Forces. The failure to obtain full, free and prior informed consent is a violation of the rights of indigenous communities as codified in the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples adopted by the United Nations in 2007.\" (according to UN Declaration Article 11/2, research must be conducted with free prior and informed consent). As noted by the website \"El Enemigo Común\" in their essay 'A Road to Hell', \"The role of the Foreign Military Studies Office in identifying 'emerging and asymmetric' threats in Oaxaca, Mexico is chilling to say the least. Fort Leavenworth has a vast array of knowledge with regards to how neo-liberal changes in Mexico's property regime will affect indigenous culture and land use.\" Data from the \"México Indígena\" project are disseminated monthly at Fort Leavenworth's Foreign Military Studies Office. It is reported that during a conversation between Gen. Petraeus and the project leaders of México Indígena, Petraeus observed that, \"knowledge of the cultures is a multiplier of [military] forces…the knowledge of cultural ` terrain' can be as important, and at times more, than the knowledge of the geographic terrain\". Accordingly, the project heads of México Indígena are reported to have stated that \"the culture and local residents are then the 'decisive terrain'\". So-called-participatory mapping (PRM) is a technique that fully capitalizes on local indigenous knowledge in the creation of \"formalized\" maps necessary for the creation of neo-liberal property regimes. According to an excerpt from 2006 \"Methodological Approaches\" Report of México Indígena: \"The participatory mapping, or PM, methodology rests on the philosophy that local populations have some of the best and most detailed knowledge of their surrounding lands and resources and that can be collected and interpreted geographically.\"\n\nNeglecting to disclose funding sources to research participants violate the ethical principles of both the Association of American Geographers (AAG) as well as the Belmont Report. Failure to inform participants about the potential risks or unintended consequences associated with the study abrogates the principal of informed consent, and hence violates the rights of the project participant's. México Indígena's military-funded investigations do in fact pose a risk in Oaxaca for individuals and communities, especially in light of the fractious and divisive nature of village and inter-village politics in Southern Mexico, not to mention the socio-political turmoil in this region that has been fragmented by international migration, political factionalism and economic marginalization.\n\nNotwithstanding such critiques, in Peter Herlihy's estimation, \"México Indígena\" is a concerted effort to renew \"society's commitment to inform the public and the United States government about world geography\". The American Geographical Society has been clear about the potential sanctions accompanying a breach of ethical conduct. According to an AGS document released on the \"México Indígena\" web site called \"Developing Guidelines for Ethical Conduct of Foreign Field Research\":\n\"\"Lead scholars and other members of AGS-sponsored expeditions must comport themselves in a manner that respects cultures in the host country while simultaneously adhering to widely held values of American culture. Their actions must not adversely affect the people or natural environments of host countries. A significant breach of this provision may result in recall of individuals or entire expeditions\".\" \n\nThe Unión de Organizaciones de la Sierra Juárez de Oaxaca (UNOSJO) has reiterated its rejection of the University of Kansas geographers associated with the \"México Indígena\" Project for failing to obtain informed consent from the communities involved in the research. UNOSJO continues to maintain that research was conducted in a covert fashion. Moreover, the coordinator of the Unión de Organizaciones de la Sierra Juárez de Oaxaca Aldo González Rojas is reported to have said in Spanish that \"the looting of traditional Zapotec knowledge about land and territoriality is tantamount to geopiracy (geopiratería), which is being conducted through the work of México Indígena in the indigenous communities of the Sierra. This in turn has generated an international debate over the ethical nature of social research conducted in indigenous communities.\" \n\nAldo González Rojas, speaking on behalf of UNOSJO, has indicated that it is necessary to determine if the information collected by \"México Indígena\" is for U.S. military or counter-insurgency purposes. As such, UNOSJO has called for complete disclosure of the institutions and corporations with privileged access to the data collected by México Indigena. UNOSJO holds that the DOD funded Bowman expedition in Mexico is dedicated to developing military tactics for application in zones of armed conflict. UNOSJO continues to claim that Mexico's Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (SEMARNAT) has financed the work of México Indígena through its support of the University of San Luis. SEMARNAT has previously disputed UNOSJO's claim, saying they have not funded the implementation of the \"México Indígena\" project in indigenous or mestizo communities in the Sierra Juárez. According to Esteban Ortiz Rodea, reports from the indigenous communities of Tiltepec, Yagavila, Ixtlán, Yagila and Guelatao suggest few indications of the actual communal collection of zapping information, despite \"México Indígena\" project's championing of PRM.\n\nPosted on the \"México Indígena\" web site is an image of a \"parcel sketch map of part of community of La Pila, with request to PROCEDE authorities\" from an \"ejidatario\" of the Pila—Municipio de Ciudad Valles, which provides digitized visual identification of families tying them to place (parcels). In addition to mapping the region, the México Indígena team established a\ndatabase that includes the names of community members, the location of their plot(s) of land, the formal and informal use of their territories, as well as other data that is not accessible via the Internet. An egregious human rights concern that emanates from the \"México Indígena\" project is the alleged deception research, not to mention the privileged knowledge associated with \"digitally\" tying people to place and then releasing this critical cultural terrain intelligence information to immigration and other border security personnel. To date, this vital ethical concern has not been addressed by the \"México Indígena\" team, while this concern was lauded by a recent apologetic analysis of the project which notes that, \"PROCEDE's effects on the Mexican populace is a perfect example of salient GIS information untapped by the IC. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Customs and Border Protection, based on hometowns or origins of detained illegal immigrants where PROCEDE has been enacted, could identify out-migration trends from Mexico and enhance the deployment and effectiveness of border protection resources\" (See the description of \"México Indígena\" in Batson, Douglas 2009 \"Registering The Human Terrain: A Valuation of Cadastre\". National Defence Intelligence Press). The \"OaxacaLibre\" web site is clear in expressing regional apprehension regarding \"México Indígena\" 's treatment of confidential data, asserting that the local community should control such sensitive data: \"El derecho a la información se maneja también dentro del derecho de la privacidad, el conocimiento comunitario debe ser controlado por la comunidad.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50508935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50508935", "title": "Palma Sola massacre", "text": "Palma Sola massacre\n\nThe Palma Sola massacre, also known as the Liborista massacre, was a genocidal massacre carried out on 28 December 1962 against the Dominicans of the \"Liborista movement\", who lived in Palma Sola, Dominican Republic, burning six hundred people to death by a napalm airstrike.\n\nOlivorio Mateo, known as \"Papá Liborio\", was a religious healer and popular leader of the early twentieth century in the southern region of the country, who created a self-reliant commune in the mountains of San Juan de la Maguana. Born to an impoverished family, he reportedly disappeared during a 1908 hurricane, that swept the south-west region of the country. When his family performed a \"novena\" (nine days of prayer for the dead), he suddenly reappeared. Olivorio had claimed that he was transported to heaven and was sent back to earth by God. He was received as an incarnate of Jesus Christ and was worshipped.\n\nLiborio had established a cult in the region, and the idea of fighting for \"the salvation of the world and build a different world\" based on criteria of equality and solidarity. During the United States occupation of the Dominican Republic, he was branded as a threat and was persecuted and killed.\n\nThis messianic legacy was collected in 1962 by Romilio and León Ventura Rodriguez, twin brothers and liborista priests, who established a new commune, north of Palma Sola, near Las Matas de Farfán and led a movement that followed the preachings that Olivorio Mateo had reported 40 years earlier.\n\nIn addition to the area, general Alcantara Miguel Angel Ramírez, a former exile in Central America, vivified and increased the influence of the twin priests in the inserting area in political activities. The election results strongly favored them with help from influential people in the region, and in political terms, created branches of Palma Sola.\n\nThis religious community in Palma Sola who followed the preachings of Olivorio Mateo, was considered a threat to the social economic, and religious status quo. On 26 December 1962, the Dominican government decided to end the mass movement, prompting the dispatch of a military contingent that performed a napalm airstrike killing 600 people in the area. Among those dead was inspector general Miguel Rodríguez Reyes of the Dominican armed forces, who allegedly arrived on the same day to negotiate a treaty and was considered an accidental casualty of the strike.\n\nSome manifestations of this cult still exist in the southern region of the Dominican Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "31275972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31275972", "title": "People-centered development", "text": "People-centered development\n\nPeople-centered development is an approach to international development that focuses on improving local communities' self-reliance, social justice, and participatory decision-making. It recognizes that economic growth does not inherently contribute to human development and calls for changes in social, political, and environmental values and practices.\n\nIn 1984, David Korten, a former regional advisor to the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), proposed a people-centered development strategy that incorporated the values of justice, sustainability, and inclusiveness. According to Korten, the prevailing growth-focused development strategy is unsustainable and inequitable. He calls for transformations of our institutions, technology, values, and behavior, \"consistent with our ecological and social realities.\"\n\nPublished in 1989, The Manila Declaration on People's Participation and Sustainable Development sets forth principles and guidelines for enacting these transformations.\n\nThe concept of people-centered development gained recognition at several international development conferences in the 1990s, such as the Earth Summit in 1992, the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in 1994, and the Summit for Social Development of 1995. The concept was first widely promoted in the United Nations Development Programme's (UNDP) Human Development Report in 1990, in which countries' level of development was measured by the Human Development Index (HDI). The UNDP's report deems economic growth a necessary means to achieving sustainable development.\n\nJapan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated in its 1996 official development assistance (ODA) report that the objective of people-centered development is, \"helping humankind lead an affluent and happy life.\" \"Shaping the 21st Century,\" a report published by the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 1996, made people-centered development a target policy for all member countries. It stressed the importance of local ownership, participation, and capacity building while attaining economic growth.\n\nSustainability is an inherent component and explicit goal of people-centered development. People-centered development calls for the establishment of self-supporting social and economic systems, key elements of a sustainable society. In addition to its commitment to people-centered development, the DAC High-Level Meeting in May 1996 made sustainability a concrete development goal, requiring the implementation of national sustainability initiatives by 2005 in order to reverse deforestation, water pollution, and other trends of environmental degradation.\n\nThe Manila Declaration stated that people-centered development is the only way to achieve sustainable communities. Expanding beyond the environmental scope of sustainability, it advocates small-scale community actions in order to enhance economic self-reliance and create reliable sources of income. It also calls for debt reductions and blames excessive long-term foreign debt financing for the cyclical repayment burdens and policy impositions that inhibit sustainable development.\n\nDavid Korten claims that people-centered development is the only way to develop sustainable communities. He criticized the common development practice of increased economic output through natural resource depletion. Korten also advocates sustainability in the financing of development projects and the relationships of external assistance. He calls on external development partners to support objectives chosen by the people, building communities' capacity to manage resources and meet local needs independently.\n\nIn the context of people-centered development, central elements of participation include:\n\nThe OECD noted that democratic processes are essential to people-centered development because they allow communities to create their own development goals and influence the decisions that determine their quality of life. Community participation and true democratic process demand that people have the means to hold government officials and public institutions accountable. It requires that governments act as enablers for the peoples' agenda, creating policies that enhance citizen action.\n\nCommunities must have access to relevant, reliable information in order to make the best decisions for themselves and their communities. The Manila Declaration proposed global monitoring systems to increase peoples' access to relevant information in order for communities to make rational decisions and protect their interests.\n\nTrue democratic processes can only be achieved when men and women are represented equally. People-centered development necessitates equality in the roles of men and women, a systemic problem in many developing nations. The OECD noted several reasons why women are essential to sustainable, people-centered development:\n\nIn the context of people-centered development, elements of justice include:\n\nThe OECD's DAC affirms that the role of external development partners is to enhance developing countries' capacity to meet sustainable development requirements. This strategy emphasizes the need for local ownership so that communities have responsibility and control over their resources in order to benefit themselves and also stresses the role of government as an enabler for the peoples' agenda. According to David Korten, individuals have a greater incentive to pursue sustainable environmental practices when resources are locally owned. In addition, he says that people-centered development \"rejects the right of one person to self-enrichment based on the appropriation of the resources on which another person's survival depends.\"\n\nJapan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs adopted a strategy of people-centered development in 1996, citing the concept's growing centrality at international development conferences. It recognized a primary concern of people-centered development – whether or not the benefits of economic growth (e.g. increased employment and income) are seen in underserved communities. The Manila Declaration proposed reductions in resource exports in order to address this concern. A reduction in exports would allow communities to meet their local needs first. According to Korten, a share of surplus production should then be used to create high value-added products, providing the optimal benefits to developing communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "8934641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8934641", "title": "Piracy is theft", "text": "Piracy is theft\n\n\"Piracy is theft\" was a propaganda slogan used by UK non-profit organization FAST (Federation Against Software Theft). It was first used in the 1980s and has since then been used by other similar organisations such as MPAA.\n\n"}
{"id": "447492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447492", "title": "Policy debate", "text": "Policy debate\n\nPolicy debate is a form of debate competition in which teams of two advocate for and against a resolution that typically calls for policy change by the United States federal government. It is also referred to as cross-examination debate (sometimes shortened to Cross-X, CX, Cross-ex, or C-X) because of the 3-minute questioning period following each constructive speech. Affirmative teams generally present a \"plan\" as a proposal for implementation of the resolution.\n\nHigh school policy debate is sponsored by various organizations including the National Speech and Debate Association, National Association of Urban Debate Leagues, Catholic Forensic League, Stoa USA, and the National Christian Forensics and Communications Association, as well as many other regional speech organizations. Collegiate policy debates are generally competed under the guidelines of National Debate Tournament (NDT) and the Cross Examination Debate Association (CEDA), which have been joined at the collegiate level. A one-person policy format is sanctioned by the National Forensic Association (NFA) on the collegiate level as well.\n\nAcademic debate had its origins in intracollegiate debating societies, in which students would engage in (often public) debates against their classmates. Wake Forest University's debate program claims to have its origins in student literary societies founded on campus in the mid-1830s, which first presented joint \"orations\" in 1854. Many debating societies that were founded at least as early as the mid-nineteenth century are still active today, though they have generally shifted their focus to intercollegiate competitive debate. In addition to Wake Forest, the debate society at Northwestern University dates to 1855. Boston College's Fulton Debating Society, which was founded in 1868, continues to stage an annual public \"Fulton Prize Debate\" between teams of its own students after the intercollegiate debate season has ended. Other universities continue similar traditions.\n\nIntercollegiate debates have been held since at least as early as the 1890s. Historical records indicate that debates between teams from Wake Forest University and Trinity College (later Duke University) occurred beginning in 1897. Additionally, a debate between students from Boston College and Georgetown University occurred on May 1, 1895, in Boston. Whitman College debated Washington State University, Willamette University, and the University of Idaho in the late 1890s. Southwestern claims that the first debate held on its campus was between Southwestern and Fairmount College (which eventually became Wichita State University) but that debate could not have occurred prior to 1895, the year Fairmount College began classes.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, structured rules for lengths of speeches developed. Each side (affirmative and negative) was afforded two opening \"constructive\" speeches, and two closing \"rebuttal\" speeches, for a total of eight speeches per debate. Each speaker was cross-examined by an opponent for a period following his or her constructive speech. Traditionally rebuttals were half the length of constructives, but when a style of faster delivery speed became more standard in the late 1980s this time structure became problematic. Wake Forest University introduced reformed speech times in both its college (9‑6 instead of 10‑5) and high school (8‑5 instead of 8‑4) tournaments, which spread rapidly to become the new de facto standards.\n\nIn 2014, debaters Ameena Ruffin and Korey Johnson made history by being the first black women to win the Cross Examination Debate Association tournament, which is the largest college debate tournament.\n\nPolicy debaters' speed of delivery will vary from league to league and tournament to tournament. In many tournaments, debaters will speak very quickly in order to read as much evidence and make as many arguments as possible within the time-constrained speech. Speed reading or spreading is normal at the majority of national circuit policy debate tournaments.\n\nSome feel that the rapid-fire delivery makes debate harder to understand for the lay person. Rapid delivery is encouraged by those who believe that increased quantity and diversity of argumentation makes debates more educational. Others, citing scientific studies, claim that learning to speak faster also increases short- and long-term memory. A slower style is preferred by those who want debates to be understandable to lay people and those who claim that the pedagogical purpose of the activity is to train rhetorical skills. This is often a argument made by those who oppose in-round spreading - that the use of incomprehensible speeds makes debate less appealing to lay people. Many further claim that the increased speed encourages debaters to make several poor arguments, as opposed to a few high-quality ones. Most debaters will vary their rate of delivery depending upon the judge's preferences.\n\nDebaters utilize a specialized form of note taking, called \"flowing\", to keep track of the arguments presented during a debate. Conventionally, debater's flowing is divided into separate \"flows\" for each different argument in the debate round (kritiks, disads, topicalities, case, etc.). There are multiple methods of flowing but the most common style incorporates columns of arguments made in a given speech which allows the debater to match the next speaker's responses up with the original arguments. Certain shorthands for commonly used words are used to keep up with the rapid rate of delivery. The abbreviations or stand-in symbols vary between debaters.\n\nFlowing on a laptop has become more and more popular among high school and college debaters, despite the reservations of certain schools, tournaments, and judges. Some debaters use a basic computer spreadsheet; others use specialized flowing templates, which includes embedded shortcut keys for the most common formatting needs.\n\nAlthough there are many accepted standards in policy debate, there is no written formulation of rules. Sometimes debaters will in fact debate about how policy debate should work. These arguments are known as \"theory arguments\", and they are most often brought up when one team believes the actions of the other team are unfair and therefore warrant a loss. In more recent years, however, theory arguments have not been nearly as present in the Novice level as before.\n\nWhen the Affirmative team presents a plan, they take upon themselves the Burden of Proof to prove that their plan should be adopted. They must prove that their plan is an example of the resolution, and they must prove that the plan is a good idea. The Affirmative traditionally must uphold this burden using evidence from published sources, to avoid ridiculous cases.\n\nOne traditional way to judge policy debate states that the affirmative team must win certain issues, called the stock issues. They are generally interpreted to be as follows:\nHow many negative disadvantages will the plan have? Will its disadvantages outweigh its advantages?\nWill the plan solve the harms and can it even happen in the real world? How much of an impact will the plan have?\nWhat is the problem in the status quo to justify implementation of the plan? Is the plan important enough to even warrant consideration or make a difference?\nIs the affirmative's plan happening already, and if not, why?\nIs the plan an example of the resolution? Does the affirmative team's proposed policy comply with the wording of the resolution?\n\nThe \"stock issues\" are also commonly described as Significance, Harms, Inherency, Topicality, and Solvency. The \"stock issues\" are then taught collectively as \"The S.H.I.T.S.\" . Stock issues are taught extensively to novice debaters, but typically become less relevant as debaters move into more complex and less traditional arguments. Stock issues are strongly associated with traditional policy debate, and are typically stressed in advanced debates only if the judge is known to have traditionalist preferences. In some places (notably the West Coast), there is the additional stock issue of disadvantages; or a 'bad thing' that may occur as a result of passing the plan.\n\nMost affirmative teams today generally frame their case around advantages, which are good effects of their plan. The negative team will often present disadvantages which contend that the affirmative plan causes undesirable consequences. In an attempt to make sure that their advantages/disadvantages outweigh those of the other team, debaters often present extreme scenarios such as the extinction of the human race or a global nuclear war.\n\nNegation Theory contends that the negative need only negate the affirmative instead of having to negate the resolution. The acceptance of negation theory allows negative teams to run arguments such as topical counter plans that may affirm the resolution but still negate the affirmative's specific plan.\n\nAfter the affirmative presents its case, the negative can attack the case with many different arguments, which include:\n\nEvidence in debates is organized into units called \"cards\" (because such evidence was originally printed on note cards, though the practice has long been out of favor). Cards are designed to condense an author's argument so that debaters have an easy way to access the information. A card is composed of three parts: the tag, the cite, and the body. The \"tag\" is the debater's summary of the argument presented in the body. A tag is usually only one or two sentences. The \"cite\" contains all relevant citation information (that is, the author, date of publication, journal, title, etc.). Although every card should contain a complete citation, only the author's name and date of publication are typically spoken aloud in a speech. Some teams will also read the author's qualifications if they wish to emphasize this information. The \"body\" is a fragment of the author's original text. The length of a body can vary greatly—cards can be as short as a few sentences and as long as two or more pages. Most cards are between one and five paragraphs in length. The body of a card is often underlined or highlighted in order to eliminate unnecessary or redundant sentences when the card is read in a round. In a round, the tag is read first, followed by the cite and the body.\n\nAs pieces of evidence accumulate use, multiple colors of highlighting and different thicknesses of underlining often occur, sometimes making it difficult to determine which portion of the evidence was read. If debaters stop before finishing the underlined or highlighted portion of a card, it is considered good form to \"mark\" the card to show where one stopped reading. To otherwise misrepresent how much of a card was read—either by stopping early or by skipping underlined or highlighted sections—is known as \"cross-reading\" or \"clipping\" which is generally considered cheating. Although many judges overtly condemn the practice on their paradigms, it is hard to enforce, especially if judges permit debaters to be excessively unclear. Opponents will generally stand behind a debater whom they believe to be cross-reading or clipping, as if waiting to take a card (see below), and silently read along with them in an attempt to get their opponent to stop or the judge to notice.\n\nAs cards are read in round, it is common for an opponent to collect and examine even while a speech is still going on. This practice originated in part because cards are read at a rate faster than conversational speed but also because the un-underlined portions of cards are not read in round. Taking the cards during the speech allows the opponent to question the author's qualifications, the original context of the evidence, etc. in cross-examination. It is generally accepted whichever team is using preparation time has priority to read evidence read previously during a round by both teams. As a result, large amounts of evidence may change hands after the use of preparation time but before a speech. Most judges will not deduct from a team's preparation time for time spent finding evidence which the other team has misplaced.\n\nAfter a round, judges often \"call for cards\" to examine evidence whose merit was contested during the round or whose weight was emphasized during rebuttals so that they can read the evidence for themselves. Although widespread, this practice is explicitly banned at some tournaments, most notably National Catholic Forensic League nationals, and some judges refuse to call for cards because they believe the practice constitutes \"doing work for debaters that should have been done during round\". Judges may also call for evidence for the purpose of obtaining its citation information so that they can produce the evidence for their own school. Opponents and spectators are also generally allowed to collect citations in this manner, and some tournaments send scouts to rounds to facilitate the collection of cites for every team at the tournament, information which is sometimes published online.\n\nA judge refers to the individual responsible for determining the winner and loser of a policy debate round as well as assessing the relative merit of the participant speakers. Judges must resolve the complex issues presented in short time while, ideally, avoiding inserting their own personal beliefs that might cloud impartiality. \n\nSome circuits see \"lay\" or inexperienced judges recruited from the community as an important \"part of the game.\" Debaters in these circuits must be able to adapt from presentations to individuals with no debate experience at all, to judges who have themselves been debaters. This use of lay judges significantly impacts delivery and argumentation as the rapid-fire style and complex debate-theory arguments are frequently incomprehensible to lay judges. For this reason, other circuits restrict policy debate judging to qualified judges, generally ex-debaters. The use of lay judges, and its impact in speed, presentation and argumentation is a source of great controversy in the US high school debate community.\n\nThe judge is charged not only with selecting a winner, but also must allot points to each competitor. Known as \"speaker points\" or simply \"speaks\", its goal is to provide a numerical evaluation of the debaters' speaking skills. Speaker point schemes vary throughout local state and regional organizations particularly at the high school level. However, the method accepted by most national organizations such as the National Forensic League, Tournament of Champions, National Catholic Forensic League, Cross-Examination Debate Association, and National Debate Tournament, use values ranging from 1 to 30. In practice, within these organizations the standard variation is 26‑29, where 26's are given to extremely poor speakers, where a perfect score is considered incredibly rare and warranted only by an outstanding performance. Most tournaments accept halfpoint gradiations, for example 28.5s. Generally, speaker points are seen as secondary in importance to wins and losses, yet often correlate with a team's win/loss rate. In other words, the judge usually awards the winning team cumulatively higher speaker points than the losing team. If the judge does not, the decision is considered a \"low-point win\". Low-point wins simply mean that the team with better argumentation spoke worse, but are often rare, because judges will vote for teams that speak better, and award better speaker points to victorious teams.\n\nIn some smaller jurisdictions, the judge ranks the speakers 1‑4 instead of awarding them speaker points. Either speaker-point calculation may be used to break ties among teams with like records. Some areas also use speaker rankings in addition to speaker points in order to differentiate between speakers awarded the same number of points.\n\nAt a majority of tournaments, debaters also receive \"speaker awards\", which are awarded to the debaters who received the greatest number of speaker points. Many tournaments also drop the highest and lowest score received by each debater, in order to ensure that the speaker award calculations are fair and consistent, despite the preferences of different judges. The amount of speaker awards given out varies based on the number of debaters competing at any given tournament. For instance, a small local tournament might only award trophies or plaques to the top three debaters, whereas a widely attended \"national circuit\" tournament might give out awards to the top ten or fifteen speakers.\n\nExperienced debate judges (who were generally debaters in high school and/or college) generally carry a mindset that favors certain arguments and styles over others. Depending on what mindset, or paradigm, the judge uses, the debate can be drastically different. Because there is no one view of debate agreed upon by everyone, many debaters question a judge about their paradigm and/or their feelings on specific arguments before the round.\n\nNot every judge fits perfectly into one paradigm or another. A judge may say that they are \"tabula rasa\" or tab for short, or willing to listen to anything, but draw the line at arguments they consider to be offensive (such as arguments in favor of racism). Or, a judge might be a \"policymaker\", but still look at the debate in an offense/defense framework like a games-playing judge.\n\nExamples of paradigms include:\n\nMost high school debaters debate in local tournaments in their city, state or nearby states. Thousands of tournaments are held each year at high schools throughout the US.\n\nA small subset of high school debaters, mostly from elite public and private schools, travel around the country to tournaments in what is called the 'national circuit.' The championship of the national circuit is usually considered to be the Tournament of Champions, also called the T.O.C, at the University of Kentucky, which requires formal qualification in the form of two or more bids to the tournament. Bids are achieved by reaching a certain level of elimination rounds (for example, quarter-finals) at select, highly competitive, and carefully chosen tournaments across the country based upon the quality of debaters they attract and the diversity of locations from across the United States they represent.\n\nUrban debate leagues give students in urban school districts an opportunity to participate in policy debate. There are currently urban debate leagues in 24 of the largest cities in the United States. In total, more than 500 high schools participate in the league and more than 40,000 students have competed in urban debate.\n\nThere is some dispute over what constitutes the \"national championship\" in the United States per se, but two tournaments generally compete for the title:\nThe Tournament of Champions held at the University of Kentucky, and the National Speech and Debate tournament sponsored by the National Forensic League (now known as the National Speech & Debate Association). For the highest level of competition, the Tournament of Champions is generally considered to be the more prestigious title to hold.\n\nIn Texas, some debate occurs on the Texas Forensic Association (TFA) level. This organization includes mostly the progressive judging paradigms and favors many off topic arguments. TFA is geared towards the larger schools/programs who tend to be in the suburban areas in the major cities in the eastern part of the state. The other type of debate is UIL. UIL is open to all public schools throughout Texas.\n\nTFA State policy debate tends to favor a multitude of off-case arguments and teams that favor a progressive style; while UIL State tends to be more policy focused.\n\nThere is no single unified national championship in college debate; though the National Debate Tournament (NDT), the Cross Examination Debate Association (CEDA) and the American Debate Association (ADA) all host national tournaments. The NDT committee issues a ranking report of the top 16 teams in the country (\"first round bids\") for automatic advancement to the NDT in early February. The report roughly determines a regular season champion called the 'Copeland Award' for the team rated the highest over the course of the year through early February.\n\nWhile once attended by only highly competitive policy debaters, many high school students now attend debate institutes, which are typically held at colleges in the summer. Most institutes range from about two to seven weeks.\n\nMany institutes divide students into work groups, or \"labs\", based on skill level and experience. Many even offer specialized \"advanced\" or \"scholars\" workshops, to which acceptance is highly limited.\n\nA resolution or topic is a statement which the affirmative team affirms and the negative team negates. Resolutions are selected annually by affiliated schools. Most resolutions from the 1920s to 2005 have begun \"Resolved: that The United States federal government should\" although some variations from this structure have been apparent both before the NDT-CEDA merger and with the 2006–2007 college policy debate topic, which limited the affirmative agent to the United States Supreme Court.\n\nAt the college level, a number of topics are proposed and interested parties write \"topic papers\" discussing the pros and cons of that individual topic. Each school then gets one vote on the topic. The single topic area voted on then has a number of proposed topic wordings, one is chosen, and it is debated by affiliated students nationally for the entire season (standard academic school year).\n\nAt the high-school level, \"topic papers\" are also prepared but the voting procedure is different. These papers are then presented to a topic selection committee which rewords each topic and eventually narrows down the number of topics to five topics. Then the five resolutions are put to a two-tiered voting system. State forensic associations, the National Forensic League, and the National Catholic Forensic League all vote on the five topics, narrowing it down to two. Then the two topics are again put to a vote, and one topic is selected.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in one or more of the following: South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, Turkey.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the Mesosphere.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its economic engagement toward Cuba, Mexico or Venezuela.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its non-military exploration and/or development of the Earth's oceans.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially curtail its domestic surveillance.\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its economic and/or diplomatic engagement with the People's Republic of China.\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding and/or regulation of primary and/or secondary education in the United States.\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its restrictions on legal immigration to the United States.\n\nThe times and speech order are generally as follows:\n\nIn addition to speeches, policy debates may allow for a certain amount of preparation time, or \"prep time,\" during a debate round. NFL rules call for 5 minutes of total prep time that can be used, although in practice high school debate tournaments usually give 8 minutes of prep time. College debates typically have 10 minutes of preparation time. The preparation time is used at each team's preference; they can use different amounts of preparation time before any of their speeches, or even none at all. Prep time can be allocated strategically to intimidate or inconvenience the other team: for instance, normally a 1AR requires substantial prep time, so a well-executed \"stand up 1AR,\" delivered after no prep time intimidates the negative team and takes away from time that the 2NR may have used to prepare the parts of his/her speech which do not rely on what the 1AR says.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44109392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44109392", "title": "Premier's Climate Change Council", "text": "Premier's Climate Change Council\n\nThe Premier’s Climate Change Council was established by the Government of South Australia under the \"Climate Change and Greenhouse Emissions Reduction Act 2007\". The Council provides independent advice to the Minister responsible for Climate Change about matters related to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change adaptation and was formed during the Rann Government. The Council's membership represents the business community, the environment and conservation sector, the scientific community and state and local governments. It is chaired by prominent South Australian businessman Bruce Carter, who was appointed to the role in 2011. In 2013, Michelle Lensink MLC questioned the efficacy of the Premier's Climate Change Council, and asked the Minister for the environment, Ian Hunter about the absence of the Council's 2011-12 annual report from the Council's website. In 2013, the Council published \"South Australia’s Climate Change Vision: Pathways to 2050\" to advise Premier Jay Weatherill and his government on future planning and policy directions for the state.\n\nIn September 2015, Bruce Carter said of the Council:\"“We want to encourage a wide range of views around climate change measures that are dynamic and adaptive.”\n\nThe role of the council is to “provide advice to the Government on reducing the state’s greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to climate change in order to meet the state’s legislated greenhouse gas emissions targets.” \n\nThe act requires the appointment of seven to ten persons by the Minister from the state and local government, the “business community,” the “environment and conservation sector,” the “scientific community,” and representation from other sectors of the South Australian community. The appointment process must take account of an individual person’s knowledge of and expertise in the subject matter, consider advice from both the Local Government Association of South Australia and the Conservation Council of South Australia, and must ensure the minimal representation of both genders.\n\nAs of 2015, the Council's membership includes: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17593122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17593122", "title": "President of the Senate of Romania", "text": "President of the Senate of Romania\n\nThe President of the Senate of Romania is the senator elected to preside over the Senate meetings. The president of the Senate is also the president of the Standing Bureau of the Senate, and the first person in the presidential line of succession.\n\nThe President of the Senate is elected by secret ballot with the majority of votes from the Senators. If none of the candidates obtains the necessary votes, the first two compete again, and the one with most of the votes wins.\n\n\nBetween 3 July 1864 and 1 June 1866 the Upper House of the Legislative was called \"Corpul Ponderator\". Members where nominated by the Domnitor, based on the proposals of the counties.\n\nThe upper house was called \"Senat\" or \"Camera Senatului\". Most of the Senators where elected, some where senators by right (\"senatori de drept\"), as established by the 1866 Constitution. Voters and members had to be at least 40 years of age, except the heir to the Throne, that was senator at 18 years, and allowed to vote in the Senate at 21.\n\nIn 1946 elections were called only for the Assembly of Deputies (\"Adunarea Deputaţilor\"), as the 1923 Constitution was re-empowered with some modifications. After the overthrow of the King and the establishment of the communist republic, the upper house was dissolved and disbanded.\n\nThe upper house is called \"Senat\" and is headed by a President.\n\nInterim (acting) officeholders are denoted by \"italics\". The Rule of the Senate states that at the first standing of the house, the meeting is headed by the eldest senator and helped by the youngest senator. Those bear the title of Interim President of the Senate, and, as their term is very short (one or two days) are not listed. The interim officeholders listed have hold the office in different circumstances and for a longer time. They were actually Vice Presidents standing as caretaker President during a vacancy. The caretaker Vice Presidents during the two suspensions of Traian Băsescu in April–May 2007 (Doru Ioan Tărăcilă) and in June–July 2012 (Petru Filip) are not listed, as the seat of President of the Senate was not vacant.\n\nThe political stance of presidents of the upper house prior to the development of a modern party system is given by:\n\nThe political stance of presidents of the upper house after the development of a modern party system is given by:\n"}
{"id": "48615489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48615489", "title": "Rabi'ah ibn Ahmad ibn Tulun", "text": "Rabi'ah ibn Ahmad ibn Tulun\n\nAbū al-Mukarram Rabīʿah ibn Aḥmad ibn Ṭūlūn() was the fourth son of the founder of the Tulunid dynasty, Ahmad ibn Tulun. In 879, when his eldest brother Abbas rebelled against their father and fled to Alexandria and thence to Barqah, he remained in charge of affairs in Fustat until the return of Ahmad ibn Tulun. In 897, he rebelled against his nephew, Harun ibn Khumarawayh, in Alexandria, with the support of Berber troops. The uprising was defeated, and he was executed by lashing in the same autumn.\n\n"}
{"id": "30012163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30012163", "title": "Right to social security", "text": "Right to social security\n\nThe right to social security is recognized as a human right and establishes the right to social security assistance for those unable to work due to sickness, disability, maternity, employment injury, unemployment or old age. Social security systems provided for by states consist of social insurance programs, which provide \"earned benefits\" for workers and their families by employment contributions, and/or social assistance programs which provide \"non-contributory benefits\" designed to provide minimum levels of social security to persons unable to access social insurance.\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights recognises the right to social security in articles 22, which states that:\n\n\"Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security\n\nAnd article 25, which enshrines the right to an adequate standard of living, stating that:\n\n\"(1) Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.\n(2) Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance. All children, whether born in or out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same social protection.\"\nArticle 9 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) recognises \"the right of everyone to social security, including social insurance.\" The right to social security is furthermore recognised in Article 10, which states that \"special protection should be accorded to mothers during a reasonable period before and after childbirth. During such period working mothers should be accorded paid leave or leave with adequate social security benefits.\" State parties to the ICESCR have the obligation to respect, protect and fulfil the right to social security. In the General Comment no 19 (2007) \"On the Right to Social Security\" the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights clarified that the right to social security as enshrined in the ICESCR encompasses: \n\n\"the right to access and maintain benefits, whether in cash or in kind, from (a) lack of work-related income caused by sickness, disability, maternity, employment injury, unemployment, old age, or death of a family member; (b) unaffordable access to health care; (c) insufficient family support, particularly children and adult dependents\"\n\nSocial security is understood to encompass the following nine branches: adequate health service, disability benefits, old age benefits, unemployment benefits, employment injury insurance, family and child support, maternity benefits, disability protections, and provisions for survivors and orphans. State parties to the ICESCR have the obligation to fulfil the right to social security by adopting \"the necessary measures, including the implementation of a social security scheme\". State parties must ensure that \"the social security system will be adequate, accessible for everyone and will cover social risks and contingencies\". State parties also have an obligation to facilitate the right to social security by sufficiently \"recognising this right within the national political and legal systems, preferably by way of legislative implementation\" and \"adopting a national social security strategy\".\n\nThe right to social security is also recognised in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination which in article five requires that State parties must prohibit and eliminate racial discrimination in all of its forms, and to guarantee the right of everyone \"without distinction as to race, colour, or national or ethnic origin, to equality before the law, notably in the enjoyment of... the right to public health, medical care, social security and social services\". The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women enshrines the right to social security for women in article 11, stating that women have \"the right to social security, particularly in cases of retirement, unemployment, sickness, invalidity and old age and other incapacity to work, as well as the right to paid leave.\"\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of the Child enshrines the right of children to social security in article 26, stating that:\n\n\"(1) States Parties shall recognize for every child the right to benefit from social security, including social insurance, and shall take the necessary measures to achieve the full realization of this right in accordance with their national law.\n(2) The benefits should, where appropriate, be granted, taking into account the resources and the circumstances of the child and persons having responsibility for the maintenance of the child, as well as any other consideration relevant to an application for benefits made by or on behalf of the child.\" \n\nThe Convention further elaborates on the right of children to social security in article 18 in relation to working parents, stating that \"States Parties shall render appropriate assistance to parents and legal guardians in the performance of their child-rearing responsibilities and shall ensure the development of institutions, facilities and services for the care of children.\" According to the Convention \"States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that children of working parents have the right to benefit from child-care services and facilities for which they are eligible.\" Article 20 of the Convention makes provisions for the right to social security of children without parents, stating that \"A child temporarily or permanently deprived of his or her family environment, or in whose own best interests cannot be allowed to remain in that environment, shall be entitled to special protection and assistance provided by the State.\" And that \"States Parties shall in accordance with their national laws ensure alternative care for such a child.\"\n\nThe right to social security is interrelated and interdependent with other economic, social and cultural rights, in particular the right to an adequate standard of living, including the right to food and the right to housing, the right to work, and the right to protection of the family. According to the UN Human Rights Committee article 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights on discrimination applies to the right to social security. In a General Comment from 2000 the Committee highlighted the right to social security as an area where women are frequently subject of discrimination.\n\nGlobally the access to social security is low and 80 percent of the global population have no access to any formal social security protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "38373710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38373710", "title": "SWIPSY", "text": "SWIPSY\n\nSWIPSY was a firewall toolkit produced by the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency in the UK (later QinetiQ). The SWIPSY toolkit was an ITSEC E3 (equivalent to Common Criteria EAL4) evaluated product that allowed additional code to be added to its security ‘compartments’ without affecting the evaluation status of the toolkit itself.\n\nSWIPSY had security properties that assured network and process separation. In particular processes communicating with one network could not communicate directly with the other network other than by ‘trusted mover agents’ that in turn force data to be passed to the format and content checkers. SWIPSY ran on a Trusted Solaris 8 platform, utilising its Mandatory Access Controls to enforce separation between compartments.\n\nSWIPSY, which stood for SWitch IP SecurelY, was used to build an SNMP firewall system called MIDASS.\n\nSWIPSY technology was licensed by Clearswift for use in its Deep-Secure line of guard products .\n\nSWIPSY was used as the basis for a guard for the Citrix ICA protocol by QinetiQ.\n"}
{"id": "29347882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29347882", "title": "Soviet repressions in Belarus", "text": "Soviet repressions in Belarus\n\nSoviet repression in Belarus refers to cases of persecution of people in Belarus under Communist rule. This includes persecution of people for alleged \"counter-revolutionary activity\", as well as deportation of people to other regions of the USSR based on their social, ethnic, religious or other background.\n\nRepression started in 1917 and reached its peak during the 1930s and especially during the USSR-wide Great Purge of 1937-1938. Significant executions of notable Belarusian intellectuals and politicians were carried out during the night of 29 to 30 October 1937 related to the fabricated Case of the Union of Liberation of Belarus in 1930. Thousands of ethnic Poles were killed during the Polish Operation of the NKVD (1937–38), and their families frequently deported to Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nAnother wave of repression occurred in 1939—1941 in West Belarus following its annexation to the USSR, when thousands of \"kulaki\", priests, social and political leaders, former Polish officials and \"osadniki\" were either exterminated or forcibly resettled in Kazakhstan, Siberia and other regions of the USSR. Repression largely stopped after the death of Joseph Stalin in 1953. The exact number of people who became victims of Soviet repression in Belarus is hard to determine because the archives of the KGB in Belarus remain inaccessible to researchers.\n\nAccording to incomplete estimates, approximately 600,000 people fell victim to Soviet repression in Belarus between 1917 and 1953. Other estimates rise the number to more than 1.4 million people, with 250,000 sentenced by the judiciary or executed by extrajudicial bodies (\"dvoikas\", \"troikas\", special commissions of the OGPU, NKVD, MGB). Excluding those sentenced in the 1920s-1930s, over 250,000 Belarusians were deported as kulaks or kulak family members to regions outside the Belarusian Soviet Republic.\n\n358,686 people believed to be victims of Soviet repression were sentenced to death in Belarus in 1917—1953, according to historian Vasil Kushner. Overall, around 200,000 victims of Soviet political repression were rehabilitated in Belarus between 1954 and 2000.\n\nAccording to Kushner, in the 1930s, only 26 Belarusian academicians and 6 correspondent members of the Belarusian Science Academy were unaffected by repressions. Of 139 PhD students (aspirants) in Belarus as of 1934, only six people escaped execution during the repressions. According to Kushner, the Soviet repressions virtually stopped any humanities research in Belarus.\n\nAccording to the Belarusian-Swedish historian Andrej Kotljarchuk, in the 1930s the Soviets either physically exterminated or banned from further research 32 historians from Minsk with their works being also excluded from libraries. According to Kotljarchuk, the Soviet authorities thereby physically destroyed the Belarusian school of history studies of that time.\n\nAccording historian Leanid Marakou, of approximately 540—570 writers who had been published in Belarus in the 1920s and 1930s, not less than 440—460 (80%) became victims of Soviet repression. This number includes Todar Kliashtorny, Andrej Mryj and many others. Including those forced to leave Belarus, no less than 500 (90%) of published Belarusian writers fell victim to the repressions, a quarter of the total number of writers persecuted by the state at this time in the entire USSR.\n\nAt the same time, according to Marakou, in Ukraine only 35% to 40% of writers have been victims to repressions, in Russia the number is below 15%.\n\nA total of 1520 Belarusian medical specialists have become victims of repressions, this includes about 500 doctors, over 200 nurses, almost 600 veterinarians, several hundreds of family members that have been sentenced within the same legal cases.\n\n\nIn late 1980s the influential pro-democracy and pro-independence movement in Belarus (the Belarusian Popular Front) has been largely inspired by the Perestroika and by the findings of graves on the former Soviet execution site in Kurapaty near Minsk.\n\nUnlike in neighbouring countries, the authorities of the Republic of Belarus under president Aliaksandr Lukashenka give only limited access to state archives related to Stalinist repressions and do not commemorate the victims of Communism on a governmental level.\n\nThe democratic opposition close to the Conservative Christian Party, the revived Belarusian Christian Democracy and Partyja BNF commemorate the victims of the Soviet regime on 29 and 30 October, the day of a mass execution of Belarusian writers in 1937, and on the traditional ancestors commemoration day (Dziady) in early November.\n\nIn 2014 a website for the Virtual Museum of Soviet Repression in Belarus was created.\n\n"}
{"id": "14431561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14431561", "title": "Space policy", "text": "Space policy\n\nSpace policy is the political decision-making process for, and application of, public policy of a state (or association of states) regarding spaceflight and uses of outer space, both for civilian (scientific and commercial) and military purposes. International treaties, such as the 1967 Outer Space Treaty, attempt to maximize the peaceful uses of space and restrict the militarization of space.\n\nSpace policy intersects with science policy, since national space programs often perform or fund research in space science, and also with defense policy, for applications such as spy satellites and anti-satellite weapons. It also encompasses government regulation of third-party activities such as commercial communications satellites and private spaceflight.\n\nSpace policy also encompasses the creation and application of space law, and space advocacy organizations exist to support the cause of space exploration.\n\nSpace law is an area of the law that encompasses national and international law governing activities in outer space. There are currently five treaties that make up the body of international space law.\n\nThe inception of the field of space law began with the launch of the world's first artificial satellite by the Soviet Union in October 1957. Named \"Sputnik 1\", the satellite was launched as part of the International Geophysical Year. Since that time, space law has evolved and assumed more importance as mankind has increasingly come to use and rely on space-based resources.\n\nThe Soviet Union became the world's first spacefaring state by launching its first satellite, Sputnik 1, on 4 October 1957.\n\nUnited States space policy is drafted by the Executive branch at the direction of the President of the United States, and submitted for approval and establishment of funding to the legislative process of the United States Congress. The President may also negotiate with other nations and sign space treaties on behalf of the US, according to his or her constitutional authority. Congress' final space policy product is, in the case of domestic policy a bill explicitly stating the policy objectives and the budget appropriation for their implementation to be submitted to the President for signature into law, or else a ratified treaty with other nations.\n\nSpace advocacy organizations (such as the Space Science Institute, National Space Society, and the Space Generation Advisory Council, learned societies such as the American Astronomical Society and the American Astronautical Society; and policy organizations such as the National Academies) may provide advice to the government and lobby for space goals.\n\nCivilian and scientific space policy is carried out by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA, subsequent to 29 July 1958), and military space activities (communications, reconnaissance, intelligence, mapping, and missile defense) are carried out by various agencies of the Department of Defense. The President is legally responsible for deciding which space activities fall under the civilian and military areas. In addition, the Department of Commerce's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration operates various services with space components, such as the Landsat program.\n\nThe President consults with NASA and Department of Defense on their space activity plans, as potential input for the policy draft submitted to Congress. He or she also consults with the National Security Council, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the Office of Management and Budget to take into account Congress's expected willingness to provide necessary funding levels for proposed programs.\n\nOnce the President's policy draft or treaty is submitted to the Congress, civilian policies are reviewed by the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics and the Senate Subcommittee on Science and Space. These committees also exercise oversight over NASA's operations and investigation of accidents such as the 1967 Apollo 1 fire. Military policies are reviewed and overseen by the House Subcommittee on Strategic Forces and the Senate Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, as well as the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee conducts hearings on proposed space treaties, and the various appropriations committees have power over the budgets for space-related agencies. Space policy efforts are supported by Congressional agencies such as the Congressional Research Service, the Congressional Budget Office, and Government Accountability Office.\n\nThe early history of United States space policy is linked to the US–Soviet Space Race of the 1960s. The National Aeronautics and Space Act creating NASA was passed in 1958, after the launch of the Soviet Sputnik 1 satellite. Thereafter, in response to the flight of Yuri Gagarin as the first man in space, Kennedy in 1961 committed the United States to landing a man on the Moon by the end of the decade. Although the costs of the Vietnam War and the programs of the Great Society forced cuts to NASA's budget as early as 1965, the first Moon landing occurred in 1969, early in Richard Nixon's presidency. Under the Nixon administration NASA's budget continued to decline and three of the planned Apollo Moon landings were cancelled. The Nixon administration approved the beginning of the Space Shuttle program in 1972, but did not support funding of other projects such as a Mars landing, colonization of the Moon, or a permanent space station.\n\nThe Space Shuttle first launched in 1981, during Ronald Reagan's administration. Reagan in 1982 announced a renewed active space effort, which included initiatives such the construction of Space Station Freedom, and the military Strategic Defense Initiative, and, later in his term, a 30 percent increase in NASA's budget. The Space Shuttle Challenger disaster in January 1986 led to a reevaluation of the future of the national space program in the National Commission on Space report and the Ride Report.\n\nThe United States has participated in the International Space Station beginning in the 1990s, the Space Shuttle program has continued, although the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster has led to the planned retirement of the Space Shuttle in mid-2011. There is a current debate on the post-Space Shuttle future of the civilian space program: the Constellation program of the George W. Bush administration directed NASA to create a set of new spacecraft with the goal of sending astronauts to the Moon and Mars, but the Obama administration cancelled the Constellation program, opting instead to emphasize development of commercial rocket systems.\n\nThe Vision for Space Exploration established under the George W. Bush administration in 2004 was replaced with a new policy released by Barack Obama on 28 June 2010.\n\nThe European Space Agency (ESA) is the common space agency for many European nations. It is independent of the European Union, though the 2007 European Space Policy provides a framework for coordination between the two organizations and member states, including issues such as security and defence, access to space, space science, and space exploration.\n\nThe ESA was founded to serve as a counterweight to the dominant United States and Soviet space programs, and further the economic and military independence of Europe. This has included the development of the Ariane rockets, which by 1985 had captured over 40 percent of commercial launch market in the free world. The ESA budget is split between mandatory and voluntary programs, the latter of which allow individual member nations to pursue their own national space goals within the organization.\n\nThe ESA Director General’s Proposal for the European Space Policy states, \"Space systems are strategic assets demonstrating independence and the readiness to assume global responsibilities. Initially developed as defence or scientific projects, they now also provide commercial infrastructures on which important sectors of the economy depend and which are relevant in the daily life of citizens... Europe needs an effective space policy to enable it to exert global leadership in selected policy areas in accordance with European interests and values.\"\n\nAlthough Chairman Mao Zedong planned after Russia's Sputnik 1 launch to place a Chinese satellite in orbit by 1959 to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China (PRC), China did not successfully launch its first satellite until 24 April 1970. Mao and Zhou Enlai decided on 14 July 1967 that the PRC should not be left behind, and started China's own human spaceflight program. The first success came on 15 October 2003 when China sent its first astronaut into space for 21 hours aboard Shenzhou 5.\n\nThe Ministry of Aerospace Industry was responsible for the Chinese space program prior to July 1999, when it was split into the China National Space Administration responsible for setting policy, and the state-owned China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation, responsible for implementation.\n\nThe China National Space Administration states its aims as maintaining the country's overall development strategy, making innovations in an independent and self-reliant manner, promoting the country's science and technology sector and encouraging economic and social development, and actively engaging in international cooperation.\n\nThe Russian Federation inherited their space programs in 1991 from its predecessor state, the Soviet Union. Russia's civilian space agency is the Russian Federal Space Agency, and its military counterpart is the Russian Aerospace Defence Forces. Ukraine's agency is the State Space Agency of Ukraine, which handles both civilian and military programs.\n\nIn the 1980s the Soviet Union was considered to be technologically behind the United States, but it outspent the United States in its space budget, and its cosmonauts had spent three times as many days in space as American astronauts. The Soviet Union had also been more willing than the United States to embark on long-term programs, such as the Salyut and Mir space station programs, and increased their investment in space programs throughout the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the 1990s saw serious financial problems because of the decreased cash flow, which encouraged Roskosmos to improvise and seek other ways to keep space programs running. This resulted in Roskosmos' leading role in commercial satellite launches and space tourism. While scientific missions, such as interplanetary probes or astronomy missions during these years played a very small role, although roskosmos has connections with Russian aerospace forces, its budget is not part of the defense budget of the country, Roskosmos managed to operate the space station Mir well past its planned lifespan, contribute to the International Space Station, and continue to fly additional Soyuz and Progress missions.\n\nThe Russian economy boomed throughout 2005 from high prices for exports, such as oil and gas, the outlook for subsequent funding became more favorable. The federal space budget for the year 2009 was left unchanged despite the global economic crisis, standing at about 82 billion rubles ($2.4 billion). Current priorities of the Russian space program include the new Angara rocket family and development of new communications, navigation and remote Earth sensing spacecraft. The GLONASS global navigation satellite system has for many years been one of the top priorities and has been given its own budget line in the federal space budget.\n\n"}
{"id": "37758457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37758457", "title": "Speech at the Opening of the Parliament of South Africa, 1990", "text": "Speech at the Opening of the Parliament of South Africa, 1990\n\nOn 2 February 1990, the State President F. W. de Klerk delivered a speech at the opening of the 1990 session of the Parliament of South Africa in which he announced sweeping reforms that marked the beginning of the negotiated transition from \"apartheid\" to constitutional democracy. The reforms promised in the speech included the unbanning of the African National Congress (ANC) and other anti-apartheid organisations, the release of political prisoners including Nelson Mandela, the end of the state of emergency, and a moratorium on the death penalty.\n\n"}
{"id": "37376865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37376865", "title": "The Fifty-Three", "text": "The Fifty-Three\n\nThe Fifty-Three were a group of 53 Iranians arrested for involvement in communist political activities in 1937 and brought to trial in November 1938 in the most sensational of the political trials held during the reign of Rezā Shāh.\n\nAs a result of the similarity with the prosecution of the Old Bolsheviks in the Stalinist show trials in the Soviet Union in 1936-1938, some jested that Rezā Shāh was performing an imitation of Joseph Stalin.\n\nThe fifty-three were:\n\n"}
{"id": "34483914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34483914", "title": "Tropical fascism", "text": "Tropical fascism\n\nIn African political science, tropical fascism is a type of post-colonial state which is either considered fascist or is seen to have strong fascist tendencies. Gnassingbé Eyadéma the dictator of Togo from 1967 to 2005 has been considered an example of tropical fascism in Africa. The Hutu Power movement, a Hutu ultranationalist and supremacist movement that organized and committed the Rwandan Genocide aimed at exterminating the Tutsi people of Rwanda, has been regarded as a prominent example of tropical fascism in Africa. The Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia has been called a tropical fascist regime, as they officially renounced communism in 1981.\n\nThe Hutu Power movement in Rwanda, a movement based on Hutu ultranationalism and Hutu supremacy over Tutsis, and the intention of extermination of the Tutsis, has been regarded as a fascist movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "10199333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10199333", "title": "UNESCO-Madanjeet Singh Prize", "text": "UNESCO-Madanjeet Singh Prize\n\nThe UNESCO-Madanjeet Singh Prize for the Promotion of Tolerance and Non-Violence is a prize awarded every two years by UNESCO. It was inaugurated in 1996, following the 1995 United Nations Year for Tolerance and in connection with the 125th anniversary of the birth of Mohandas Gandhi, funded by a donation from Madanjeet Singh.\n\nThe purpose of the prize is to honour and reward extraordinary creative achievements in promoting tolerance, as notable models for others in the field of peace-building. Impact assessment is a part of the nomination and evaluation process.\n\nThe \"UNESCO-Madanjeet Singh Prize for the Promotion of Tolerance and Non-Violence prize\" is dedicated to advancing the spirit of tolerance in the arts, education, culture, science and communication.\n\n\"We, the peoples of the United Nations determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war... to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person... and for these ends, to practise tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbours\" Charter of the United Nations\n\nIn 1945, the founders of the United Nations looked to tolerance as a key to peaceful coexistence for the peoples of the world. Their cautionary words are as true in our own time.\n\nIn 1995, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization led a worldwide mobilization in favor of tolerance, non-violence and appreciation of cultural diversity. The UN's fiftieth anniversary year was declared the United Nations Year for Tolerance. The Year's calendar of events included regional conferences and intergovernmental dialogue, concerts, film and theatre festivals, essay and poster contests, broadcasts and publications of all kinds, in partnership with regional and non-governmental organizations. In 1996, an equally dynamic follow-up programme to the Year got underway.\n\nIn the frame of the Year, and in connection with the 125th anniversary of the birth of Mohandas Gandhi, UNESCO established a new international award, the UNESCO-Madanjeet Singh Prize for the Promotion of Tolerance and Non-Violence.\n\nThis prize of US $100,000 is awarded once every two years for exceptional contributions and leadership in the field of tolerance promotion. The winner may be either an individual or an institution. Writers, educators, artists, scientists, statesmen, pioneering institutions and leaders of public opinion - all these and others may be nominated. The prize may also be awarded to the families of outstanding individuals who have lost their lives in the struggle against intolerance.\n\nThe prize was made possible by the generous donation of the Indian artist, writer and diplomat Madanjeet Singh, who is also Goodwill Ambassador of UNESCO. Mr Singh was a follower of Mahatma Gandhi, and served nine months in Mirzapur jail during the \"Quit India\" movement against British colonial rule. He received the Indian Government's \"Tamra Patra\" Freedom Fighter award in 1972. In addition to a distinguished career in diplomacy and the arts, he has authored numerous books on topics ranging from Himalayan art to solar energy.\n\nThe purpose of the prize is to honour and reward extraordinary creative achievements in tolerance promotion. The emphasis is on achievement. The ultimate aim is to draw attention to successful undertakings that may serve as models for others in the field of tolerance and peace-building. The prize thus recognizes effectiveness as well as vision; impact assessment is a part of the nomination and evaluation process.\n\nNominations of candidates are accepted from UNESCO Member State governments and National Commissions, as well as from intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations affiliated with UNESCO. Prizewinners are chosen by the UNESCO Director-General upon the recommendation of a jury composed of prominent international personalities.\n\nThe prize is awarded every two years on 16 November, the annual International Day for Tolerance.\n\nIn 1996, the Prize was awarded to the association of 32 non-governmental women’s organizations Pro-femmes Twese Hamwe (\"All Together\") of Rwanda. The two laureates in 1998 were the educator and peace activist Narayan Desai of India and the Joint Action Committee for Peoples Rights of Pakistan. In 2000, the laureate was Pope Shenouda III, the head of Egypt’s Coptic Orthodox Church. Aung San Suu Kyi of Myanmar was named laureate in 2002. In 2004, the laureate was Taslima Nasreen, writer from Bangladesh. The 2006 Prize was awarded to Veerasingham Anandasangaree from Sri Lanka, President of the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) for being a \"tireless defender of democracy and peaceful conflict resolution [who] has helped improve knowledge of the Tamul cause, through dialogue, through the promotion of non-violent solutions in Sri Lanka and by taking a stand against terrorism.\" The 2009 Prize was awarded to François Houtart for \"his life-long commitment to world peace, intercultural dialogue, human rights and the promotion of tolerance, and in recognition of his outstanding efforts to advance the cause of social justice in the world\" and Abdul Sattar Edhi for \"his life-long efforts to ameliorate the conditions of the most disadvantaged groups in Pakistan and South Asia, and to promote the ideals of human dignity, human rights, mutual respect and tolerance.\"\"\n"}
{"id": "3132714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3132714", "title": "Western Canada Independence Party", "text": "Western Canada Independence Party\n\nThe Western Canada Party (WCP) is a Canadian political party that advocates the separation from Canada of the provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba as well as the Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut to form a new country.\n\nThe party was founded at a meeting in Strathmore, Alberta, in May 2005, electing party leader Tyron Blakney, and president Glen Dundas. At the founding, Mr. Blakney said \"Western alienation and the desire for fundamental political change are long-simmering grievances and now that most people see that the system is completely corrupt, we hope the movement will quickly grow and that candidates will come forward to run in every western constituency.\" \n\nThe Western Canada Party hopes to give western voters an alternative to the \"status quo\" parties. The party hopes to achieve separation by democratic means but will work within the Canadian system initially to defend western values and interests. \n\nThe party has ties to the \"Western Independence Party\" founded by a group of 150 people from across the western provinces in 1987. It was formed because the group had grown dissatisfied with the direction of another western separatist party, the federal Western Block Party (WBP), led by lawyer Douglas Christie of Victoria, B.C. \n\nAt the WIP founding convention in October 1987 in Edmonton, Dr. Fred Marshall was elected interim leader. Marshall had run unsuccessfully for the leadership of the provincial Western Canada Concept in 1984, losing to future Reform Party Member of Parliament Jack Ramsay of Camrose, Alberta. Also at the founding convention, the party adopted \"The West Canada Flag\" which was designed by Mr. Dexter Dombro and was chosen from a field of eight other entries.\n\nThe WIP ran 14 candidates across western Canada in the federal election of 1988. All the candidates were soundly defeated with none garnering even 1% of the popular vote in any riding.\n\nThe party also has or had provincial branches in each of the four provinces. The federal wing of the Western Independence Party has been dormant since 1988. The party was resurrected shortly after the founding of the Western Block Party.\n\nThe British Columbia provincial party called the Western Independence Party of BC (WIPBC) was not a branch of WIP. WIPBC has renamed itself the BC Refederation Party (BC Refed), and now promotes political changes within Canada.\n\nBC Refed has drafted the text of a Constitution of BC and the text of a BC Direct Democracy Act based on the Swiss model of direct democracy. These are aimed at creating what it describes as a \"de jure\" (lawful) BC government. The party claims that Canada's federal government and the Supreme Court of Canada are both \"de facto\" (unlawful), arguing that Canada has no lawful constitution. The party does not consider the Constitution Act of 1982 to be lawful. Consequently, the party argues that the Canadian government, as constituted, is illegal.\n\nThe WIP of Alberta appears to be defunct. The Separation Party of Alberta (SPA), which nominated candidates in the 2004 provincial election, now promotes the cause of separation in the province. The SPA issued a statement of support when the WIP of Saskatchewan was formed in 2003. The Alberta Independence Party is also active, having experienced a resurgence of interest in 2018.\n\nThe Western Independence Party of Saskatchewan continues to be an active party under the leadership of Neil Fenske of Endeavor, but does not intend to nominate candidates in federal elections.\n\nParty policy was adopted at the founding convention and was expanded at a policy convention in Saskatoon in April 1988. \n\nThe party's basic policy statements were the following: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23488278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23488278", "title": "Whole Azerbaijan", "text": "Whole Azerbaijan\n\nWhole Azerbaijan () is an irredentist concept of uniting Azerbaijani-inhabited territories into Azerbaijan.\n\nThe idea of \"Whole Azerbaijan\" was formulated by Piruz Dilanchi in 1991 and defined in 1992 by Azerbaijani president Abulfaz Elchibey (s. 1992-93). In 1991, Dilanchi founded the SANLM nationalist organization and in 1997 Elchibey founded the \"Whole Azerbaijan Union\" (Bütöv Azərbaycan Birliyi) organization. Elchibey published his book on the idea, \"Bütöv Azərbaycan yolunda\", in Turkey in 1998. It argued that the borders of Azerbaijan should extend from Derbent to the Persian Gulf. Elchibey argued that this was a territory of Azerbaijani historical ethnic presence. He proposed that Azerbaijan had right to rule it, under a proposed system of governance called \"United Azerbaijani Lands\" (Birləşmiş Azərbaycan Yurdları). After his death in 2002, it was published postmortem. He opposed the idea of a separate and independent Iranian Azerbaijan.\nThe term Whole Azerbaijan continued in political initiatives including the SANLM (CAMAH) and Whole Azerbaijan Popular Front Party. \n\nAlthough the boundaries of Whole Azerbaijan are not strictly defined, some proponents portray them as encompassing the following areas\n\n\n"}
